{"id": "58929462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58929462", "title": "Anantazhwar", "text": "Anantazhwar\n\nSri Anantazhwar was a disciple of Ramanuja and a 12th century Vaishnava figure of India.\n\nThe story goes that Ramanuja once asked Anantalwar to raise a flower garden for the Lord on the Tirumala hill, that is Venkateswara. Anantalwar abided by the request and went upon raising a garden. He took the help of his pregnant wife who found it difficult to do the manual labor from time to time. Lord Venkateswara having seen the trouble of the lady assumed the form of a young lad and helped her out. On one occasion when this came to the notice of Anantalwar, the latter was furious and he hit the lad with a crowbar. The lad then disappeared but when Anantalwar visited the god in Tirumala, he found that the Lord was bleeding from the chin. He at once realised that it was the Lord who had helped his wife and regretted his behavior. He applied green camphor for the wound. Lord Venkateswara was impressed with Anantalwar's devotion and not only forgave him but also told him that he would display the green camphor forever as a mark of Anantalwar's devotion. Thus green camphor is applied to the Lord's chin to this day during the rituals.\n"}
{"id": "7329422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7329422", "title": "Badami Chalukya architecture", "text": "Badami Chalukya architecture\n\nThe Badami Chalukya architecture was a temple building idiom that evolved in the 5th – 8th centuries in the Malaprabha river basin, in present-day Bagalkot district of Karnataka state, under the Chalukya dynasty. This style is sometimes called the Vesara style and Chalukya style, a term that also includes the much later Western Chalukya architecture of the 11th and 12th centuries. Early Chalukya architecture, used by George Michell and others, equates to Badami Chalukya. The earliest Badami Chalukya temples date back to around 450 A.D. in Aihole when the Badami Chalukyas were vassals of the Kadambas of Banavasi. According to historian K.V. Sounder Rajan, the Badami Chalukyas contribution to temple building matched their valor and their achievements in battle.\n\nAbout 450 CE, the Early Chalukya style originated in Aihole and was perfected in Badami and Pattadakal. \nThe unknown architects and artists experimented with different styles, blended the Nagara and Dravidian styles.\n\nTheir style includes two types of monuments: rock cut halls or \"cave temples\", and \"structural\" temples, built above ground.\n\nBadami cave temples have rock cut halls with three basic features: pillared veranda, columned hall and a sanctum cut out deep into rock.\n\nEarly experiments in rock cut halls were attempted in Aihole where they built three cave temples, one each in Vedic, Buddhist and Jaina styles. Later they refined their style and cut out four marvellous cave temples at Badami. One noteworthy feature of these cave temples is the running frieze of \"Ganas\" in various amusing postures caved in relief on each plinth.\n\nThe outside verandas of the cave temples are rather plain, but the inner hall contains rich and prolific sculptural symbolism. Art critic Dr. M. Sheshadri wrote of the Chalukya art that they cut rock like Titans but finished like jewellers. Critic Zimmer wrote that the Chalukya cave temples are a fine balance of versatility and restrain.\n\nThe finest structural temples are located in Pattadakal. Of the ten temples in Pattadakal, six are in Dravidian style and four in Rekhanagara style. The Virupaksha temple in many ways holds resemblance to the Kailasanatha temple in Kanchipuram which came into existence a few years earlier.\n\nThis is a fully inclusive temple, it has a central structure, \"nandi\" pavilion in front and has a walled enclosure that is entered by a gateway. The main sanctum has a \"Pradakshinapatha\" and \"mantapa\". The \"mantapa\" is pillared and has perforated windows (pierced window screens). The external wall surface is divided by pilasters into well-spaced ornamental niches filled with either sculptures or perforated windows. Art critic Percy Brown says about the sculptures that they flow into the architecture in a continuous stream. It is said that the Virupaskha temple is one of those monuments where the spirit of the men who built it, still lives.\n\nMany centuries later, the serene art of the Badami Chalukya reappeared in the pillared architecture of the Vijayanagar Empire. Their caves include finely engraved sculptures of \"Harihara\", \"Trivikrama\", \"Mahisa Mardhini\", \"Tandavamurthi\", \"Paravasudeva\", \"Nataraja\", \"Varaha\", \"Gomateshvara\" and others. Plenty of animal and foliage motifs are also included.\n\nSome important sculptors of their time were Gundan Anivaritachari, Revadi Ovajja and Narasobba.\n\nPattadakal\n\n\nAihole\nBadami\nGerusoppa\nSanduru\nAlampur, Andhra Pradesh\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18424708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18424708", "title": "Benedict Groeschel", "text": "Benedict Groeschel\n\nBenedict Joseph Groeschel, C.F.R. (July 23, 1933 – October 3, 2014) was an American Franciscan friar, Catholic priest, retreat master, author, psychologist, activist and television host. He hosted the television talk program \"Sunday Night Prime\" broadcast on the Eternal Word Television Network as well as several serial religious specials. He founded the Office for Spiritual Development for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York. He was Associate Director of the Trinity Retreat House for clergy and executive director of St. Francis House. He was professor of pastoral psychology at St. Joseph's Seminary in New York and an adjunct professor at the Institute for Psychological Sciences in Arlington, Virginia. He was one of the founders of the Franciscan Friars of the Renewal and among his close friends were Mother Teresa, Mother Angelica and Alice von Hildebrand.\n\nBorn Robert Peter Groeschel on July 23, 1933, in Jersey City, New Jersey, was the eldest of the six children of Edward Joseph Groeschel and Marjule Smith Groeschel.\n\nGroeschel attended Catholic elementary and high school (Immaculate Conception High School in Montclair, New Jersey) and then in 1950 he entered the Capuchin Order's St. Felix Friary (later turned into the Good Shepherd Church of the United Brethren in Christ) in Huntington, Indiana. As a novice at St. Felix's Groeschel met and was deeply impressed by Blessed Solanus Casey. After nine months in Indiana, Groeschel completed his novitiate at the order's friary in the Detroit Province in 1951.\n\nThe following year, he was admitted to temporary profession of vows and given the religious name of Benedict Joseph, after a Franciscan saint, Benedict Joseph Labre. In later life he would often comment that he felt it significant that his patron saint in the order was most likely schizophrenic.\n\nGroeschel made his perpetual profession in 1954 and was ordained a priest in 1959. He received a master's degree in counseling from Iona College in 1964 and a Doctor of Education (D.Ed.) degree, with a specialty in psychology, from Teachers College, Columbia University in 1971.\n\nIn 1960, Groeschel became the chaplain for the Children's Village, a facility for emotionally disturbed children based in Dobbs Ferry, New York. In 1965, he joined the staff of St. Joseph's Seminary. He has taught at Fordham University, Iona College and Maryknoll Seminary. In 1967, he founded the St. Francis House in Brooklyn, New York, which provides a safe haven for young men looking for a new start in life. In 1974, Cardinal Terence Cooke, Archbishop of New York, asked him to establish the Trinity Retreat in Larchmont, New York, which provides spiritual direction and retreats for clergy. In 1984, Archbishop (future Cardinal) John Joseph O'Connor, Cardinal Cooke's successor, appointed Groeschel to the position of promoter of the cause of canonization of Cardinal Cooke. (Cardinal Cooke is recognized as a Servant of God as of May 2015.)\n\nIn the 1980s Groeschel became an early supporter and a popular weekly host for the Catholic television station Eternal Word Television Network (EWTN). Michael Warsaw, the chairman and chief executive officer of EWTN stated \"In many of the most difficult days in the history of EWTN, Father Benedict was a strong and vocal supporter of Mother Angelica.\"\n\nIn 1985, Groeschel co-founded, with Christopher Bell, the Good Counsel Homes for homeless pregnant women and children.\n\nIn 1987, responding to the call of Pope John Paul II for religious orders to renew their communities, Groeschel and seven Capuchin colleagues broke away from their order \"to follow a more traditional religious life that highlighted communal living and traditional garb while serving the poor and needy.\" They formed the Franciscan Friars of the Renewal with the mission of preaching reform and serving the poor. At the time of his death the order had grown to \"115 brothers and priests and 31 sisters in nine friaries in the U.S., four in Europe and two convents in Central America.\"\n\nAfter joining the Institute of Psychological Sciences in 2000, Groeschel taught an annual intensive course focused on how to give practical assistance to people experiencing trauma, extreme stress, and sorrow, while at the same time integrating religious values with counseling and psychotherapy.\n\nGroeschel was Chairman of St. Francis House and the Good Counsel Homes. He was on the board of Ave Maria University in Naples, Florida, and was a member of the American Psychological Association. He was also involved with the Padre Pio Shelter, St. Anthony Residence, St. Francis Youth Center, and St. Benedict Joseph Medical Center in Honduras.\n\nThroughout his career Groeschel was \"an outspoken opponent of abortion and was quick to defend the church against what he saw as unfair criticism, which endeared him to conservative Catholics in particular.\"\n\nGroeschel received wide public attention through his preaching engagements, writing and television appearances. He was the author of over 30 books and recorded more than 100 audio and video series. He published articles in several Catholic magazines on a monthly basis. His last books included \"The Tears of God\" (2008), \"Questions and Answers About Your Journey to God\" (2007), \"The Virtue Driven Life\" (2006), and \"Why Do We Believe?\" (2005) His weekly television program, \"Sunday Night Live with Father Benedict Groeschel\", offered a mix of interviews, answering viewer questions and discussing spiritual and social matters relating to the Catholic faith.\n\nGroeschel was a highly visible Catholic activist, firstly in the civil rights movement. He publicly criticized insulting depictions of the Catholic Church in popular culture and the media. In September 1998, he led protests outside an Off-Broadway theater in New York City against the production of Terrence McNally's play \"Corpus Christi\". In his 2002 book, \"From Scandal to Hope\", he accused \"The Boston Globe\", \"The New York Times\", and the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" of revealing anti-Catholic prejudice in their coverage of the sexual abuse scandal that disrupted the church. \"Seldom in the history of journalism have I seen such virulent attacks on any institution that is supposed to receive fair treatment in the press\", he wrote.\n\nIn April 2005, following the election of Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger as Pope Benedict XVI, Groeschel said that the new pope had \"been very badly abused by the American media\". He thought that the pope's experiences during World War II had been distorted and his personality misrepresented.\n\nOn January 11, 2004, Groeschel was struck by an automobile while crossing a street in Orlando, Florida. He \"suffered numerous broken bones and intracranial bleeding\", and over a four-hour period, he had no blood pressure, heartbeat or pulse for about 20 minutes. A few days later the trauma triggered a near-fatal heart attack. While he was recovering from his injuries, he collaborated with John Bishop on the book \"There Are No Accidents: In All Things Trust in God\". He broadcast his first live program on EWTN on October 24, 2004. Although the accident left him with limited use of his right arm and difficulty in walking, he was back preaching and giving retreats by the end of 2004 and he continued to keep a full schedule. As he told \"The New York Times\" nearly four years after his accident: \"They said I would never live. I lived. They said I would never think. I think. They said I would never walk. I walked. They said I would never dance, but I never danced anyway.\"\n\nIn 1984 Groeschel had heart problems that were addressed by bypass surgery.\n\nIn 2009 Groeschel, then age 75, suffered a minor stroke overnight March 20–21. The stroke caused temporary cognitive and speech difficulties that were noticeable in his March 29 appearance as the host of EWTN's \"Sunday Night Live With Father Benedict Groeschel\", where he made the condition public. During the show Groeschel stated the stroke was the reason Father Andrew Apostoli (also from his community) had replaced him the previous week and stated that he had decided to return so soon \"so that viewers who may be suffering in some way won’t give up.\"\n\nNotably during the broadcast Groeschel misspoke Apostoli’s name as \"Father Augustine\" and \"confused a recent story in the news when he said that the University of Notre Dame was receiving an award from President Obama.\" It was reported that as the program continued \"he was speaking much more normally. He even poked fun at himself for getting Father Andrew’s name wrong: 'I’ll never live that down.'\"\n\nSince 1973 Groeschel served as the director of spiritual development for the Archdiocese of New York. It was in this capacity as a \"defender of the priesthood\" that he was drawn into the sexual abuse scandals that came to light in the early 2000s.\n\nIn 2002 with large numbers of public allegations arising accusing priests of sexual abuse against minors, Groeschel caused some controversy during a sermon at a Yonkers church. He described the news reporting on the matter as a \"media persecution\" against Catholicism intended \"to destroy whatever public influence the church might have.\" This perception of persecution was one \"Many church officials concurred in\", \"The New York Times\" would later report. Groeschel also told the Yonkers audience that \"I've met with some of those people [the accused priests] and they are among the most penitent people I have met in my life. When you pick up the media, you don’t hear about the penitence.\"\n\nGroeschel also made controversial comments in a 2012 interview published by the \"National Catholic Register\" on August 27 related to the sexual abuse of children by priests: \"Suppose you have a man having a nervous breakdown, and a youngster comes after him. A lot of the cases, the youngster — 14, 16, 18 — is the seducer.\" On August 30 he issued a statement:\n\nThe Franciscan Friars of the Renewal organization also apologized for Groeschel's remarks, noting that they were out of character for him and stemmed from infirmities due to his 2004 car accident and a recent stroke. On September 3, EWTN announced that Groeschel had resigned from his position as host of \"Sunday Night Prime\" and that other members of his order would serve as the show's host.\n\nDue to declining health Groeschel had moved into St. Joseph's Home for the elderly in Totowa run by the Little Sisters of the Poor.\nHe died there at 11 pm on October 3, 2014.\n\nHe had an ongoing medical condition that was grave enough that preparations to memorialize his life, including a Facebook tribute, were begun on September 9, 2014, by members of his religious order. On September 30, 2014, the Cardinal Newman Society announced on their Facebook page that they had received word that Groeschel \"fell and re-injured the same arm that was hurt in his accident ten years ago\" and asked for people to request prayers of intercession for his health from \"Venerable Solanus Casey, a former roommate of Fr. Groeschel who is up for beatification\". Doctors informed him that they felt it was inadvisable to attempt to repair the damaged arm (a fractured elbow and shoulder) as he was already in a weakened condition from the ongoing illness and was unlikely to survive surgery. He returned home but continued to have great pain. He died due to complications from his ongoing illness.\n\nOn the day of his death Groeschel met with Michael Mencer who as a child had his juvenile macular degeneration reversed, which he and his family accredited to the intercession of Sister Miriam Teresa Demjanovich, S.C. This event was accepted by the Vatican as a miracle that qualified Demjanovich to be beatified—this was set to be declared at a Mass the next day at the Cathedral Basilica of the Sacred Heart in Newark (the first such beatification Mass to be held in the U.S. rather than Rome). Both Demjanovich and Groeschel had been born in Bayonne, New Jersey. Mencer had the relic of Demjanovich (a strand of her hair) that he had carried with him when he felt his vision problems lift and loaned it to Groeschel who blessed himself with it.\n\nBr. Shawn Conrad O'Connor, C.F.R. was with Groeschel at the time of his death. O'Connor stated that after \"kind of a rough day\" of pain, Groeschel and he prayed the rosary accompanying the recording of Mother Angelica on EWTN. After the prayer O'Connor noticed that Groeschel was unresponsive and he could not find his pulse. After a few times asking for a response O'Connor noticed his mouth and eyes move, and felt that Groeschel was either asleep or in a \"little trance\" that he had been going into lately. O'Connor then laid down. A few minutes later a nurse came in and determined that Groeschel had died. O'Connor stated that Groeschel's last conscious action had been to pray the rosary and held that it was \"a beautiful way to go.\"\n\nO'Connor noted that due to illness and pain Groeschel \"for the last two years and especially the last month...he really suffered...It seemed like he was doing his Purgatory right there in front of you...he really suffered and took a lot of time off Purgatory I think\". Father Andrew Apostoli, noting this pain, recalled that Groeschel had told him \"'I prayed to God that I would be able to suffer some great suffering before I die so that I could give a good example to people.' That seems to be how God answered that prayer.\"\n\nMembers of his order held the timing of his death was providential as that night was not only the vigil before a woman from his hometown was to be beatified, but also because it fell on the vigil of the Feast of St. Francis of Assisi (their founder) according to the Catholic liturgical calendar. (This vigil is also called the \"Transitus\" by Franciscans where they gather together to \"ritually remember the passing of Francis of Assisi from this life into God\", it \"specifies the living memory of Francis\", and \"intensifies...commitment to follow Christ in the way of the poor man of Assisi.\")\n\nOn the memorial page set up by members of his order, Groeschel's quote concerning his attitude about his death was given, \"Saint Vincent de Paul said: 'If you love the poor, your life will be filled with sunlight, and you will not be frightened at the hour of death.' I wish to witness that this is true.\"\n\nGroeschel's remains were placed in a simple pine casket (in accord with the rule of his community) and entombed in the crypt of the Most Blessed Sacrament Friary on October 12, 2014 following a funeral Mass at the Basilica Cathedral of the Sacred Heart in Newark, New Jersey.\n\n\nGroeschel made many audio recordings. Among them are two rosary recordings with the singer-songwriter Simonetta that have been on Catholic radio for more than a decade:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1486241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1486241", "title": "Buddhism in the United States", "text": "Buddhism in the United States\n\nBuddhism, once thought of as a mysterious religion from the East, has now become very popular in the West, and is one of the largest religions in the United States. As Buddhism does not require any formal \"conversion\", American Buddhists can easily incorporate dharma practice into their normal routines and traditions. The result is that American Buddhists come from every ethnicity, nationality and religious tradition. In 2012, \"U-T San Diego\" estimated U.S. practitioners at 1.2 million people, of whom 40% are living in Southern California. In terms of percentage, Hawaii has the most Buddhists at 8% of the population due to its large Asian American community.\n\nThe term American Buddhism can be used to describe Buddhism groups within the U.S, which are largely made up of converts. This contrasts many Buddhist groups in Asia, which are largely made up of people who were born into the faith.\n\nHawaii has the largest Buddhist population, amounting to 8% of the total Buddhist population of the United States. California follows Hawaii with 2%. Alaska, Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut, Illinois, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, Wyoming have 1% buddhist population.\n\nThe following is the percentage of Buddhists in the U.S. territories as of 2010:\nBuddhist American scholar Charles Prebish states there are three broad types of American Buddhism:\n\nSoka Gakkai International (SGI) is perhaps the most successful of Japan's new religious movements that grew around the world after the end of World War II. Soka Gakkai, which means \"Value Creation Society,\" is one of three sects of Nichiren Buddhism that came to the United States during the 20th century. The SGI expanded rapidly in the US, attracting non-Asian minority converts, chiefly African Americans and Latino, as well as the support of celebrities, such as Tina Turner, Herbie Hancock, and Orlando Bloom. Because of a rift with Nichiren Shōshū in 1991, the SGI has no priests of its own. Its main religious practice is chanting the mantra \"Nam Myōhō Renge Kyō\" and sections of the \"Lotus Sutra\". Unlike trends such as Zen, Vipassanā, and Tibetan Buddhism, Soka Gakkai Buddhists do not practice meditative techniques other than chanting. An SGI YouTube series called \"Buddhist in America\" has over a quarter million views in total as of 2015.\n\nBuddhism was introduced into the USA by Asian immigrants in the 19th century, when significant numbers of immigrants from East Asia began to arrive in the New World. In the United States, immigrants from China entered around 1820, but began to arrive in large numbers following the 1849 California Gold Rush.\n\nImmigrant Buddhist congregations in North America are as diverse as the different peoples of Asian Buddhist extraction who settled there. The US is home to Chinese Buddhists, Japanese Buddhists, Korean Buddhists, Sri Lankan Buddhists, Cambodian Buddhists, Vietnamese Buddhists, Thai Buddhists, and Buddhists with family backgrounds in most Buddhist countries and regions. The Immigration Act of 1965 increased the number of immigrants arriving from China, Vietnam, and the Theravada-practicing countries of Southeast Asia.\n\nFanciful accounts of a visit to North America at the end of the 5th century written by a Chinese monk named Huishen or Hushen can be found in the \"Wenxian Tongkao\" by Ma Tuan-Lin. This account is often challenged but it is \"at least plausible\" in the words of James Ishmael Ford.\n\nThe first was built in 1853 in San Francisco by the Sze Yap Company, a Chinese American fraternal society. Another society, the Ning Yeong Company, built a second in 1854; by 1875, there were eight temples, and by 1900 approximately 400 Chinese temples on the west coast of the United States, most of them containing some Buddhist elements. Unfortunately a casualty of racism, these temples were often the subject of suspicion and ignorance by the rest of the population, and were dismissively called \"joss houses\".\n\nThe Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 curtailed growth of the Chinese American population, but large-scale immigration from Japan began in the late 1880s and from Korea around 1903. In both cases, immigration was at first primarily to Hawaii. Populations from other Asian Buddhist countries followed, and in each case, the new communities established and organizations. For instance, the first Japanese temple in Hawaii was built in 1896 near Paauhau by the Honpa Hongwanji branch of Jodo Shinshu. In 1898, Japanese missionaries and immigrants established a Young Men's Buddhist Association, and the Rev. Sōryū Kagahi was dispatched from Japan to be the first Buddhist missionary in Hawaii. The first Japanese Buddhist temple in the continental U.S. was built in San Francisco in 1899, and the first in Canada was built at the Ishikawa Hotel in Vancouver in 1905. The first Buddhist clergy to take up residence in the continental U.S. were Shuye Sonoda and Kakuryo Nishimjima, missionaries from Japan who arrived in 1899.\n\nThe Buddhist Churches of America and the Honpa Hongwanji Mission of Hawaii are immigrant Buddhist organizations in the United States. The BCA is an affiliate of Japan's Nishi Hongwanji, a sect of Jōdo Shinshū, which is, in turn, a form of Pure Land Buddhism. Tracing its roots to the Young Men's Buddhist Association founded in San Francisco at the end of the 19th century and the Buddhist Mission of North America founded in 1899, it took its current form in 1944. All of the Buddhist Mission's leadership, along with almost the entire Japanese American population, had been interned during World War II. The name Buddhist Churches of America was adopted at Topaz War Relocation Center in Utah; the word \"church\" was used similar to a Christian house of worship. After internment ended, some members returned to the West Coast and revitalized churches there, while a number of others moved to the Midwest and built new churches. During the 1960s and 1970s, the BCA was in a growth phase and was very successful at fund-raising. It also published two periodicals, one in Japanese and one in English. However, since 1980, BCA membership declined. The 36 temples in the state of Hawaii of the Honpa Hongwanji Mission have a similar history.\n\nWhile a majority of the Buddhist Churches of America's membership are ethnically Japanese, some members have non-Asian backgrounds. Thus, it has limited aspects of export Buddhism. As involvement by its ethnic community declined, internal discussions advocated attracting the broader public.\n\nAnother US Buddhist institution is Hsi Lai Temple in Hacienda Heights, California. Hsi Lai is the American headquarters of Fo Guang Shan, a modern Buddhist group in Taiwan. Hsi Lai was built in 1988 at a cost of $10 million and is often described as the largest Buddhist temple in the Western hemisphere. Although it caters primarily to Chinese Americans, it also has regular services and outreach programs in English. Hsi Lai was at the center of a campaign finance controversy by Vice President Al Gore.\n\nWhile Asian immigrants were arriving, some American intellectuals examined Buddhism, based primarily on information from British colonies in India and East Asia.\n\nIn the last century, numbers of Asian Buddhist masters and teachers have immigrated to the U.S. in order to propagate their beliefs and practices. Most have belonged to three major Buddhist traditions or cultures: Zen, Tibetan, and Theravadan.\n\nThe Englishmen William Jones and Charles Wilkins translated Sanskrit texts into English. The American Transcendentalists and associated persons, in particular Henry David Thoreau took an interest in Hindu and Buddhist philosophy. In 1844, \"The Dial\", a small literary publication edited by Thoreau and Ralph Waldo Emerson, published an English version of a portion of the Lotus Sutra; it had been translated by \"Dial\" business manager Elizabeth Palmer Peabody from a French version recently completed by Eugène Burnouf. His Indian readings may have influenced his later experiments in simple living: at one point in \"Walden\" Thoreau wrote: \"I realized what the Orientals meant by contemplation and the forsaking of works.\" The poet Walt Whitman also admitted to an influence of Indian religion on his writings.\n\nAn early American to publicly convert to Buddhism was Henry Steel Olcott. Olcott, a former U.S. army colonel during the Civil War, had grown interested in reports of supernatural phenomena that were popular in the late 19th century. In 1875, he, Helena Blavatsky, and William Quan Judge founded the Theosophical Society, dedicated to the study of the occult and influenced by Hindu and Buddhist scriptures. The leaders claimed to believe that they were in contact, via visions and messages, with a secret order of adepts called the \"Himalayan Brotherhood\" or \"the Masters\". In 1879, Olcott and Blavatsky travelled to India and in 1880, to Sri Lanka, where they were met enthusiastically by local Buddhists, who saw them as allies against an aggressive Christian missionary movement. On May 25, Olcott and Blavatsky took the pancasila vows of a lay Buddhist before a monk and a large crowd. Although most of the Theosophists appear to have counted themselves as Buddhists, they held idiosyncratic beliefs that separated them from known Buddhist traditions; only Olcott was enthusiastic about following mainstream Buddhism. He returned twice to Sri Lanka, where he promoted Buddhist education, and visited Japan and Burma. Olcott authored a \"Buddhist Catechism\", stating his view of the basic tenets of the religion.\n\nSeveral publications increased knowledge of Buddhism in 19th-century America. In 1879, Edwin Arnold, an English aristocrat, published \"The Light of Asia\", an epic poem he had written about the life and teachings of the Buddha, expounded with much wealth of local color and not a little felicity of versification. The book became immensely popular in the United States, going through eighty editions and selling more than 500,000 copies. Paul Carus, a German American philosopher and theologian, was at work on a more scholarly prose treatment of the same subject. Carus was the director of Open Court Publishing Company, an academic publisher specializing in philosophy, science, and religion, and editor of \"The Monist\", a journal with a similar focus, both based in La Salle, Illinois. In 1894, Carus published \"The Gospel of Buddha\", compiled from a variety of Asian texts which, true to its name, presented the Buddha's story in a form resembling the Christian Gospels.\n\nIn a brief ceremony conducted by Dharmapala, Charles T. Strauss, a New York businessman of Jewish descent, became one of the first to formally convert to Buddhism on American soil. A few fledgling attempts at establishing a Buddhism for Americans followed. Appearing with little fanfare in 1887: \"The Buddhist Ray\", a Santa Cruz, California-based magazine published and edited by Phillangi Dasa, born Herman Carl (or Carl Herman) Veetering (or Vettering), a recluse about whom little is known. The \"Ray\"'s tone was \"ironic, light, saucy, self-assured ... one-hundred-percent American Buddhist\". It ceased publication in 1894. In 1900 six white San Franciscans, working with Japanese Jodo Shinshu missionaries, established the Dharma Sangha of Buddha and published a bimonthly magazine, \"The Light of Dharma\". In Illinois, Paul Carus wrote more books about Buddhism and set portions of Buddhist scripture to Western classical music.\n\nOne American who attempted to establish an American Buddhist movement was Dwight Goddard (1861–1939). Goddard was a Christian missionary to China when he first came in contact with Buddhism. In 1928, he spent a year living at a Zen monastery in Japan. In 1934, he founded \"The Followers of Buddha, an American Brotherhood\", with the goal of applying the traditional monastic structure of Buddhism more strictly than Senzaki and Sokei-an. The group was largely unsuccessful: no Americans were recruited to join as monks and attempts failed to attract a Chinese Chan (Zen) master to come to the United States. However, Goddard's efforts as an author and publisher bore considerable fruit. In 1930, he began publishing \"ZEN: A Buddhist Magazine\". In 1932, he collaborated with D. T. Suzuki, on a translation of the Lankavatara Sutra. That same year, he published the first edition of \"A Buddhist Bible\", an anthology of Buddhist scriptures focusing on those used in Chinese and Japanese Zen.\n\nZen was introduced to the United States by Japanese priests who were sent to serve local immigrant groups. A small group also came to study the American culture and way of life.\n\nIn 1893, Soyen Shaku was invited to speak at the World Parliament of Religions held in Chicago. In 1905, Shaku was invited to stay in the United States by a wealthy American couple. He lived for nine months near San Francisco, where he established a small zendo in the Alexander and Ida Russell home and gave regular zazen lessons, making him the first Zen Buddhist priest to teach in North America.\n\nShaku was followed by Nyogen Senzaki, a young monk from Shaku's home temple in Japan. Senzaki briefly worked for the Russells and then as a hotel porter, manager and eventually, owner. In 1922 Senzaki rented a hall and gave an English talk on a paper by Shaku; his periodic talks at different locations became known as the \"floating zendo\". Senzaki established an itinerant sitting hall from San Francisco to Los Angeles in California, where he taught until his death in 1958.\n\nSokatsu Shaku, one of Shaku's senior students, arrived in late 1906, founding a Zen meditation center called Ryomokyo-kai. One of his disciples, Shigetsu Sasaki, better known under his monastic name Sokei-an, came to New York to teach. In 1931, his small group incorporated as the Buddhist Society of America, later renamed the First Zen Institute of America. By the late 1930s, one of his most active supporters was Ruth Fuller Everett, an American socialite and the mother-in-law of Alan Watts. Shortly before Sokei-an's death in 1945, he and Everett would wed, at which point she took the name Ruth Fuller Sasaki.\n\nD.T. Suzuki had a great literary impact. Through English language essays and books, such as \"Essays in Zen Buddhism\" (1927), he became a visible expositor of Zen Buddhism and its unofficial ambassador to Western readers. In 1951, Daisetz Teitaro Suzuki returned to the United States to take a visiting professorship at Columbia University, where his open lectures attracted many members of the literary, artistic, and cultural elite.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, writers associated with the Beat Generation took a serious interest in Zen, including Gary Snyder, Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg, and Kenneth Rexroth, which increased its visibility. Prior to that, Philip Whalen had interest as early as 1946, and D. T. Suzuki began lecturing on Buddhism at Columbia in 1950. By 1958, anticipating Kerouac's publication of \"The Dharma Bums\" by three months, \"Time\" magazine said, \"Zen Buddhism is growing more chic by the minute.\"\n\nContemporary Rinzai Zen teachers in United States have included Kyozan Joshu Sasaki Roshi, Eido Tai Shimano Roshi, and Omori Sogen Roshi (d. 1994). Sasaki founded the Mount Baldy Zen Center and its branches after coming to Los Angeles from Japan in 1962. One of his students is the Canadian poet and musician Leonard Cohen. Eido Roshi founded Dai Bosatsu Zendo Kongo-ji, a training center in New York state. Omori Roshi founded Daihonzan Chozen-ji, the first Rinzai headquarters temple established outside Japan, in Honolulu; under his students Tenshin Tanouye Roshi and Dogen Hosokawa Roshi and their dharma heirs, several other training centers were established including Daiyuzenji in Chicago and Korinji in Wisconsin.\n\nIn 1998 Sherry Chayat, born in Brooklyn, became the first American woman to receive transmission in the Rinzai school of Buddhism.\n\nIn the 1930s Soyu Matsuoka-roshi was sent to America by Sōtōshū, to establish the Sōtō Zen tradition in the United States. He established the Chicago Buddhist Temple in 1949. Matsuoka-roshi also served as superintendent and abbot of the Long Beach Zen Buddhist Temple and Zen Center. He relocated from Chicago to establish a temple at Long Beach in 1971 after leaving the Zen Buddhist Temple of Chicago to his dharma heir Kongo Richard Langlois, Roshi. He returned to Chicago in 1995, where he died in 1998.\n\nSōtō Zen priest Shunryu Suzuki (no relation to D.T. Suzuki), who was the son of a Sōtō priest, was sent to San Francisco in the late 1950s on a three-year temporary assignment to care for an established Japanese congregation at the Sōtō temple, Soko-ji. Suzuki also taught zazen or sitting meditation which soon attracted American students and \"beatniks\", who formed a core of students who in 1962 would create the San Francisco Zen Center and its eventual network of highly influential Zen centers across the country, including the Tassajara Zen Mountain Center, the first Buddhist monastery in the Western world. He provided innovation and creativity during San Francisco's countercultural movement of the 1960s but he died in 1971. His low-key teaching style was described in the popular book \"Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind,\" a compilation of his talks.\n\nTaizan Maezumi arrived as a young priest to serve at Zenshuji, the North American Sōtō sect headquarters in Los Angeles, in 1956. Maezumi received dharma transmission (shiho) from Baian Hakujun Kuroda, his father and high-ranked Sōtō priest, in 1955. By the mid-1960s he had formed a regular zazen group. In 1967, he and his supporters founded the Zen Center of Los Angeles. Further, he received teaching permission (inka) from Koryu Osaka – a Rinzai teacher – and from Yasutani Hakuun of the Sanbo Kyodan. Maezumi, in turn, had several American dharma heirs, such as Bernie Glassman, John Daido Loori, Charlotte Joko Beck, and Dennis Genpo Merzel. His successors and their network of centers became the White Plum Sangha. In 2006 Merle Kodo Boyd, born in Texas, became the first African-American woman ever to receive Dharma transmission in Zen Buddhism.\n\nSanbo Kyodan is a contemporary Japanese Zen lineage which had an impact in the West disproportionate to its size in Japan. It is rooted in the reformist teachings of Harada Daiun Sogaku (1871–1961) and his disciple Yasutani Hakuun (1885–1971), who argued that the existing Zen institutions of Japan (Sōtō and Rinzai sects) had become complacent and were generally unable to convey real Dharma.\n\nSanbo Kyodan's first American member was Philip Kapleau, who first traveled to Japan in 1945 as a court reporter for the war crimes trials. In 1953, he returned to Japan, where he met with Nakagawa Soen, a protégé of Nyogen Senzaki. In 1965, he published a book, \"The Three Pillars of Zen\", which recorded a set of talks by Yasutani outlining his approach to practice, along with transcripts of dokusan interviews and some additional texts. In 1965 Kapleau returned to America and, in 1966, established the Rochester Zen Center in Rochester, New York. In 1967, Kapleau had a falling-out with Yasutani over Kapleau's moves to Americanize his temple, after which it became independent of Sanbo Kyodan. One of Kapleau's early disciples was Toni Packer, who left Rochester in 1981 to found a nonsectarian meditation center, not specifically Buddhist or Zen.\n\nRobert Aitken was introduced to Zen as a prisoner in Japan during World War II. After returning to the United States, he studied with Nyogen Senzaki in Los Angeles in the early 1950s. In 1959, while still a Zen student, he founded the Diamond Sangha, a zendo in Honolulu, Hawaii. Aitken became a dharma heir of Yamada's, authored more than ten books, and developed the Diamond Sangha into an international network with temples in the United States, Argentina, Germany, and Australia. In 1995, he and his organization split with Sanbo Kyodan in response to reorganization of the latter following Yamada's death. The Pacific Zen Institute led by John Tarrant, Aitken's first Dharma successor, continues as an independent Zen line.\n\nThere are also Zen teachers of Chinese Chán, Korean Seon, and Vietnamese Thien.\n\nIn 1962, Hsuan Hua moved to San Francisco's Chinatown, where, in addition to Zen, he taught Chinese Pure Land, Tiantai, Vinaya, and Vajrayana Buddhism. Initially, his students were mostly ethnic Chinese, but he eventually attracted a range of followers.\n\nSheng-yen first visited the United States in 1978 under the sponsorship of the Buddhist Association of the United States, an organization of Chinese American Buddhists. In 1980, he founded the Chán Meditation Society in Queens, New York. In 1985, he founded the Chung-hwa Institute of Buddhist Studies in Taiwan, which sponsors Chinese Zen activities in the United States.\n\nSeung Sahn was a temple abbot in Seoul. After living in Hong Kong and Japan, he moved to the US in 1972 (not speaking any English) to establish the Kwan Um School of Zen. Shortly after arriving in Providence, he attracted students and founded the Providence Zen Center. The Kwan Um School has more than 100 Zen centers on six continents.\n\nAnother Korean Zen teacher, Samu Sunim, founded Toronto's Zen Buddhist Temple in 1971. He is head of the Buddhist Society for Compassionate Wisdom, which has temples in Ann Arbor, Chicago, Mexico City, and New York City.\n\nHye Am (1884–1985) brought lineage Dharma to the United States. Hye Am's Dharma successor, Myo Vong founded the Western Son Academy (1976), and his Korean disciple, Pohwa Sunim, founded World Zen Fellowship (1994) which includes various Zen centers in the United States, such as the Potomac Zen Sangha, the Patriarchal Zen Society and the Baltimore Zen Center.\n\nRecently, many Korean Buddhist monks have come to the United States to spread the Dharma. They are establishing temples and zen (Korean, 'Seon') centers all around the United States. For example, Hyeonho established the Goryosah Temple in Los Angeles in 1979, and Muil Woohak founded the Budzen Center in New York.\n\nVietnamese Zen (\"Thiền\") teachers in America include Thich Thien-An and Thich Nhat Hanh. Thich Thien-An came to America in 1966 as a visiting professor at UCLA and taught traditional Thien meditation.\n\nThich Nhat Hanh was a monk in Vietnam during the Vietnam War. In 1966, he left Vietnam in exile for Plum Village, a monastery in France. In his books and talks, Thich Nhat Hanh emphasizes mindfulness (\"sati\") as the most important practice in daily life. His monastic students live and practice at three centers in the United States: Deer Park Monastery in Escondido, California, Blue Cliff Monastery in Pine Bush, New York, and Magnolia Grove Monastery in Batesville, Mississippi.\n\nPerhaps the most widely visible Buddhist leader in the world is Tenzin Gyatso, the current Dalai Lama, who first visited the United States in 1979. As the exiled political leader of Tibet, he has become a popular cause célèbre, attracting celebrity religious followers such as Richard Gere and Adam Yauch. His early life was depicted in Hollywood films such as \"Kundun\" and \"Seven Years in Tibet\". An early Western-born Tibetan Buddhist monk was Robert A. F. Thurman, now an academic supporter of the Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama maintains a North American headquarters in Ithaca, New York.\n\nThe Dalai Lama's family has strong ties to America. His brother Thubten Norbu fled China after being asked to assassinate his brother. He was himself a Lama, the Takster Rinpoche, and an abbot of the Kumbum Monastery in Tibet's Amdo region. He settled in Bloomington, Indiana, where he later founded the Tibetan Mongolian Buddhist Cultural Center and Kumbum Chamtse Ling Temple. Since the death of the Takster Rinpoche it has served as a Kumbum of the West, with the current Arija Rinpochere serving as its leader.\n\nDilowa Gegen (Diluu Khudagt) was the first lama to immigrate to the United States in 1949 as a political refugee and joined Owen Lattimore's Mongolia Project. He was born in Tudevtei, Zavkhan, Mongolia and was one of the leading figures in declaration of independence of Mongolia. He was exiled from Mongolia, the reason remains unrevealed until today. After arriving in the US, he joined Johns Hopkins University and founded a monastery in New Jersey.\nThe first Tibetan Buddhist lama to have American students was Geshe Ngawang Wangyal, a Kalmyk-Mongolian of the Gelug lineage, who came to the United States in 1955 and founded the \"Lamaist Buddhist Monastery of America\" in New Jersey in 1958. Among his students were the future western scholars Robert Thurman, Jeffrey Hopkins, Alexander Berzin and Anne C. Klein. Other early arrivals included Dezhung Rinpoche, a Sakya lama who settled in Seattle, in 1960, and Tarthang Tulku Rinpoche, the first Nyingma teacher in America, who arrived in the US in 1968 and established the \"Tibetan Nyingma Meditation Center\" in Berkeley, California in 1969.\n\nThe best-known Tibetan Buddhist lama to live in the United States was Chögyam Trungpa. Trungpa, part of the Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism, moved to England in 1963, founded a temple in Scotland, and then relocated to Barnet, Vermont, and then Boulder, Colorado by 1970. He established what he named Dharmadhatu meditation centers, eventually organized under a national umbrella group called Vajradhatu (later to become Shambhala International). He developed a series of secular techniques he called Shambhala Training. Following Trungpa's death, his followers at the Shambhala Mountain Center built the Great Stupa of Dharmakaya, a traditional reliquary monument, near Red Feather Lakes, Colorado consecrated in 2001.\nThere are four major schools of Tibetan Buddhism: the Gelug, the Kagyu, the Nyingma, and the Sakya. Of these, the greatest impact in the West was made by the Gelug, led by the Dalai Lama, and the Kagyu, specifically its Karma Kagyu branch, led by the Karmapa. As of the early 1990s, there were several significant strands of Kagyu practice in the United States: Chögyam Trungpa's Shambhala movement; Karma Triyana Dharmachakra, a network of centers affiliated directly with the Karmapa's North American seat in Woodstock, New York; a network of centers founded by Kalu Rinpoche. The Drikung Kagyu lineage also has an established presence in the United States. Khenchen Konchog Gyaltsen arrived in the US in 1982 and planted the seeds for many Drikung centers across the country. He also paved the way for the arrival of His Eminence Garchen Rinpoche, who established the Garchen Buddhist Institute in Chino Valley, Arizona. Diamond Way Buddhism founded by Ole Nydahl and representing Karmapa is also active in the US.\n\nIn the 21st century, the Nyingma lineage is increasingly represented in the West by both Western and Tibetan teachers. Lama Surya Das is a Western-born teacher carrying on the \"great rimé\", a non-sectarian form of Tibetan Buddhism. The late Chagdud Tulku Rinpoche founded centers in Seattle and Brazil. Gochen Tulku Sangak (sometimes spelled \"Sang-Ngag\") Rinpoche is the founder and spiritual director of the first Ewam International Center located in the US. He is also the spiritual director of the Namchak Foundation in Montana and a primary lineage holder of the Namchak lineage. Khandro Rinpoche is a female Tibetan teacher who has a presence in America. Jetsunma Ahkon Lhamo is the first Western woman to be enthroned as a Tulku, and established Nyingma Kunzang Palyul Choling centers in Sedona, Arizona and Poolesville, Maryland.\n\nThe Gelug tradition is represented in America by the Foundation for the Preservation of the Mahayana Tradition (FPMT), founded by Lama Thubten Yeshe and Lama Zopa. Gelugpa teacher Geshe Michael Roach, the first American to be awarded a Geshe degree, established centers in New York and at Diamond Mountain University in Arizona.\n\nSravasti Abbey is the first Tibetan Buddhist monastery for Western monks and nuns in the U.S., established in Washington State by Bhikshuni Thubten Chodron in 2003. It is situated on 300 acres of forest and meadows, 11 miles (18 km) outside of Newport, Washington, near the Idaho state line. It is open to visitors who want to learn about community life in a Tibetan Buddhist monastic setting. The name Sravasti Abbey was chosen by the Dalai Lama. Bhikshuni Thubten Chodron had suggested the name, as Sravasti was the place in India where the Buddha spent 25 rains retreats (varsa in Sanskrit and yarne in Tibetan), and communities of both nuns and monks had resided there. This seemed auspicious to ensure the Buddha’s teachings would be abundantly available to both male and female monastics at the monastery.\n\nSravasti Abbey is notable because it is home to a growing group of fully ordained bhikshunis (Buddhist nuns) practicing in the Tibetan tradition. This is special because the tradition of full ordination for women was not transmitted from India to Tibet. Ordained women practicing in the Tibetan tradition usually hold a novice ordination. Venerable Thubten Chodron, while faithfully following the teachings of her Tibetan teachers, has arranged for her students to seek full ordination as bhikshunis in Taiwan.\n\nIn January 2014, the Abbey, which then had seven bhikshunis and three novices, formally began its first winter varsa (three-month monastic retreat), which lasted until April 13, 2014. As far as the Abbey knows, this was the first time a Western bhikshuni sangha practicing in the Tibetan tradition had done this ritual in the United States and in English. On April 19, 2014 the Abbey held its first kathina ceremony to mark the end of the varsa. Also in 2014 the Abbey held its first Pavarana rite at the end of the varsa. In October 2015 the Annual Western Buddhist Monastic Gathering was held at the Abbey for the first time; it was the 21st such gathering.\n\nIn 2010 the first Tibetan Buddhist nunnery in North America was established in Vermont, called Vajra Dakini Nunnery, offering novice ordination. The abbot of this nunnery is an American woman named Khenmo Drolma who is the first \"bhikkhunni,\" a fully ordained Buddhist nun, in the Drikung Kagyu tradition of Buddhism, having been ordained in Taiwan in 2002. She is also the first westerner, male or female, to be installed as a Buddhist abbot, having been installed as abbot of Vajra Dakini Nunnery in 2004.\n\nTheravada is best known for Vipassana, roughly translated as \"insight meditation\", which is an ancient meditative practice described in the Pali Canon of the Theravada school of Buddhism and similar scriptures. Vipassana also refers to a distinct movement which was begun in the 20th century by reformers such as Mahāsi Sayādaw, a Burmese monk. Mahāsi Sayādaw was a Theravada bhikkhu and Vipassana is rooted in the Theravada teachings, but its goal is to simplify ritual and other peripheral activities in order to make meditative practice more effective and available both to monks and to laypeople.\n\nIn 1965, monks from Sri Lanka established the Washington Buddhist Vihara in Washington, DC, the first Theravada monastic community in the United States. The Vihara was accessible to English-speakers with Vipassana meditation part of its activities. However, the direct influence of the Vipassana movement would not reach the U.S. until a group of Americans returned there in the early 1970s after studying with Vipassana masters in Asia.\n\nJoseph Goldstein, after journeying to Southeast Asia with the Peace Corps, lived in Bodhgaya as a student of Anagarika Munindra, the head monk of Mahabodhi Temple and himself a student of Māhāsai Sayādaw. Jack Kornfield also worked for the Peace Corps in Southeast Asia, and then studied and ordained in the Thai Forest Tradition under Ajahn Chah, a major figure in 20th-century Thai Buddhism. Sharon Salzberg went to India in 1971 and studied with Dipa Ma, a former Calcutta housewife trained in vipassana by Māhāsai Sayādaw. The Thai Forest Tradition also has a number of branch monasteries in the United States, including Abhayagiri Buddhist Monastery (Ajahn Pasanno, Abbot), Metta Forest Monastery (with Thanissaro Bhikkhu as Abbot) and Jetavana Temple Forest Monastery.\n\nGoldstein and Kornfield met in 1974 while teaching at the Naropa Institute in Colorado. The next year, Goldstein, Kornfield, and Salzberg, who had very recently returned from Calcutta, along with Jacqueline Schwarz, founded the Insight Meditation Society on an 80-acre (324,000 m²) property near Barre, Massachusetts. IMS hosted visits by Māhāsi Sayādaw, Munindra, Ajahn Chah, and Dipa Ma. In 1981, Kornfield moved to California, where he founded another Vipassana center, Spirit Rock Meditation Center, in Marin County. In 1985, Larry Rosenberg founded the Cambridge Insight Meditation Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Another Vipassana center is the Vipassana Metta Foundation, located on Maui.\n\nIn 1989, the Insight Meditation Center established the Barre Center for Buddhist Studies near the IMS headquarters, to promote scholarly investigation of Buddhism. Its director is Mu Soeng, a former Korean Zen monk.\n\nIn 1997 Dhamma Cetiya Vihara in Boston was founded by Ven. Gotami of Thailand, then a 10 precept nun. Ven. Gotami received full ordination in 2000, at which time her dwelling became America's first Theravada Buddhist bhikkhuni \"vihara\". \"Vihara\" translates as monastery or nunnery, and may be both dwelling and community center where one or more bhikkhus or bhikkhunis offer teachings on Buddhist scriptures, conduct traditional ceremonies, teach meditation, offer counseling and other community services, receive alms, and reside. More recently established Theravada bhikkhuni viharas include: Mahapajapati Monastery where several nuns (bhikkhunis and novices) live together in the desert of southern California near Joshua Tree, founded by Ven. Gunasari Bhikkhuni of Burma in 2008; Aranya Bodhi Hermitage founded by Ven. Tathaaloka Bhikkhuni in the forest near Jenner, CA, with Ven. Sobhana Bhikkhuni as Prioress, which opened officially in July 2010, where several bhikkhunis reside together along with trainees and lay supporters; and Sati Saraniya in Ontario, founded by Ven. Medhanandi in appx 2009, where two bhikkhunis reside. (There are also quiet residences of individual bhikkhunis where they may receive visitors and give teachings, such as the residence of Ven. Amma Thanasanti Bhikkhuni in 2009-2010 in Colorado Springs; and the Los Angeles residence of Ven. Susila Bhikkhuni; and the residence of Ven. Wimala Bhikkhuni in the mid-west.)\n\nIn 2010, in Northern California, 4 novice nuns were given the full bhikkhuni ordination in the Thai Theravada tradition, which included the double ordination ceremony. Bhante Gunaratana and other monks and nuns were in attendance. It was the first such ordination ever in the Western hemisphere.\n\nBhante Gunaratana is currently the abbot of the Bhavana Society, a monastery and meditation retreat center that he founded in High View, West Virginia.\n\nS. N. Goenka was a Burmese-born meditation teacher of the Vipassana movement. His teacher, Sayagyi U Ba Khin of Burma, was a contemporary of Māhāsi Sayādaw's, and taught a style of Buddhism with similar emphasis on simplicity and accessibility to laypeople. Goenka established a method of instruction popular in Asia and throughout the world. In 1981, he established the Vipassana Research Institute in Igatpuri, India and his students built several centers in North America.\n\nThe Association of American Buddhists was a group which promotes Buddhism through publications, ordination of monks, and classes.\n\nOrganized in 1960 by American practitioners of Theravada, Mahayana, and Vajrayana Buddhism, it does not espouse any particular school or schools of Buddhism. It respects all Buddhist traditions as equal, and encourages unity of Buddhism in thought and practice. It states that a different, American, form of Buddhism is possible, and that the cultural forms attached to the older schools of Buddhism need not necessarily be followed by westerners.\n\nRita M. Gross, a feminist religious scholar, claims that many people converted to Buddhism in the 1960s and '70s as an attempt to combat traditional American values. However, in their conversion, they have created a new form of Buddhism distinctly Western in thought and practice. Democratization and the rise of women in leadership positions have been among the most influential characteristics of American Buddhism. However, another one of these characteristics is rationalism, which has allowed Buddhists to come to terms with the scientific and technological advances of the 21st century. Engagement in social issues, such as global warming, domestic violence, poverty and discrimination, has also shaped Buddhism in America. Privatization of ritual practices into home life has embodied Buddhism in America. The idea of living in the “present life” rather than focusing on the future or the past is also another characteristic of American Buddhism .\n\nAmerican Buddhism was able to embed these new religious ideals into such a historically rich religious tradition and culture due to the high conversion rate in the late 20th century. Three important factors led to this conversion in America: the importance of religion, societal openness, and spirituality. American culture places a large emphasis on having a personal religious identity as a spiritual and ethical foundation. During the 1960s and onward, society also became more open to other religious practices outside of Protestantism, allowing more people to explore Buddhism. People also became more interested in spiritual and experiential religion rather than the traditional institutional religions of the time.\n\nThe mass conversion of the 60s and 70s was also occurring alongside the second-wave feminist movement. While many of the women who became Buddhists at this time were drawn to its “gender neutral” teachings, in reality Buddhism is a traditionally patriarchal religion. These two conflicting ideas caused “uneasiness” with American Buddhist women. This uneasiness was further justified after 1983, when some male Buddhist teachers were exposed as “sexual adventurers and abusers of power.” This spurred action among women in the American Buddhist community. After much dialogue within the community, including a series of conferences entitled “The Feminine in Buddhism,” Sandy Boucher, a feminist-Buddhist teacher, interviewed over one hundred Buddhist women. She determined from their experiences and her own that American Buddhism has “the possibility for the creation of a religion fully inclusive of women’s realities, in which women hold both institutional and spiritual leadership.”\n\nIn recent years, there is a strong presence of women in American Buddhism, and many women are even in leadership roles. This also may be due to the fact that American Buddhism tends to stress democratization over the traditional hierarchical structure of Buddhism in Asia. One study of Theravada Buddhist centers in the U.S., however, found that although men and women thought that Buddhist teachings were gender-blind, there were still distinct gender roles in the organization, including more male guest teachers and more women volunteering as cooks and cleaners.\n\nIn 2006, for the first time in American history, a Buddhist ordination was held where an American woman (Sister Khanti-Khema) took the Samaneri (novice) vows with an American monk (Bhante Vimalaramsi) presiding. This was done for the Buddhist American Forest Tradition at the Dhamma Sukha Meditation Center in Missouri.\n\nSocially engaged Buddhism has developed in Buddhism in the West. While some critics assert the term is redundant, as it is mistaken to believe that Buddhism in the past has not affected and been affected by the surrounding society, others have suggested that Buddhism is sometimes seen as too passive toward public life. This is particularly true in the West, where almost all converts to Buddhism come to it outside of an existing family or community tradition. Engaged Buddhism is an attempt to apply Buddhist values to larger social problems, including war and environmental concerns. The term was coined by Thich Nhat Hanh, during his years as a peace activist in Vietnam. \nThe Buddhist Peace Fellowship was founded in 1978 by Robert Aitken, Anne Aitken, Nelson Foster, and others and received early assistance from Gary Snyder, Jack Kornfield, and Joanna Macy. \nAnother engaged Buddhist group is the Zen Peacemaker Order, founded in 1996 by Bernie Glassman and Sandra Jishu Holmes.\nIn 2007, the American Buddhist scholar-monk, Ven. Bhikkhu Bodhi, was invited to write an editorial essay for the Buddhist magazine Buddhadharma. In his essay, he called attention to the narrowly inward focus of American Buddhism, which has been pursued to the neglect of the active dimension of Buddhist compassion expressed through programs of social engagement. Several of Ven. Bodhi’s students who read the essay felt a desire to follow up on his suggestions. After a few rounds of discussions, they resolved to form a Buddhist relief organization dedicated to alleviating the suffering of the poor and disadvantaged in the developing world. At the initial meetings, seeking a point of focus, they decided to direct their relief efforts at the problem of global hunger, especially by supporting local efforts by those in developing countries to achieve self-sufficiency through improved food productivity. Contacts were made with leaders and members of other Buddhist communities in the greater New York area, and before long Buddhist Global Relief emerged as an inter-denominational organization comprising people of different Buddhist groups who share the vision of a Buddhism actively committed to the task of alleviating social and economic suffering.\n\nA number of groups and individuals have been implicated in scandals. Sandra Bell has analysed the scandals at Vajradhatu and the San Francisco Zen Center and concluded that these kinds of scandals are most likely to occur in organisations that are in transition between the pure forms of charismatic authority that brought them into being and more rational, corporate forms of organization\".\n\nFord states that no one can express the \"hurt and dismay\" these events brought to each center, and that the centers have in many cases emerged stronger because they no longer depend on a \"single charismatic leader\".\n\nRobert Sharf also mentions charisma from which institutional power is derived, and the need to balance charismatic authority with institutional authority. Elaborate analyses of these scandals are made by Stuart Lachs, who mentions the uncritical acceptance of religious narratives, such as lineages and dharma transmission, which aid in giving uncritical charismatic powers to teachers and leaders.\n\nFollowing is a partial list from reliable sources, limited to the United States and by no means all-inclusive. \n\nDefinitions and policies may differ greatly between different schools or sects: for example, \"many, perhaps most\" Soto priests \"see no distinction between ordination and Dharma transmission\". Disagreement and misunderstanding exist on this point, among lay practitioners and Zen teachers alike.\n\nJames Ford writes,\nJames Ford claims that about eighty percent of authentic teachers in the United States belong to the American Zen Teachers Association or the Soto Zen Buddhist Association and are listed on their websites. This can help a prospective student sort out who is a \"normative stream\" teacher from someone who is perhaps not, but of course twenty percent do not participate.\n\nAccurate counts of Buddhists in the United States are difficult. Self-description has pitfalls. Because Buddhism is a cultural concept, individuals who self-describe as Buddhists may have little knowledge or commitment to Buddhism as a religion or practice; on the other hand, others may be deeply involved in meditation and committed to the Dharma, but may refuse the label \"Buddhist\". In the 1990s, Robert A. F. Thurman estimated there were 5 to 6 million Buddhists in America.\n\nIn a 2007 Pew Research Center survey, at 0.7% Buddhism was the third largest religion in the US after Christianity (78.4%), no religion (10.3%) and Judaism (1.7%). In 2012 on the occasion of a visit from the Dalai Lama, \"U-T San Diego\" said there are 1.2 million Buddhist practitioners in the U.S., and of them 40% live in Southern California.\n\nIn 2008, the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life Religious Landscape survey and the American Religious Identification Survey estimated Buddhists at 0.7 percent and 0.5 percent of the American population, respectively. ARIS estimated that the number of adherents rose by 170 percent between 1990 and 2000, reaching 1.2 million followers in 2008. According to William Wilson Quinn \"by all indications that remarkable rate of growth continues unabated.\" But according to Robert Thurman, \nOthers argued, in 2012, that Buddhists made up 1 percent of the American population (about three million people).\n\nA sociological survey conducted in 1999 found that relative to the US population as a whole, import Buddhists (i.e., those who are not Buddhist by birth) are proportionately more likely to be white, upper middle class, highly educated, and left-leaning in their political views. In terms of race, only 10% of survey respondents indicated they were a race other than white, a matter that has been cause of some concern among Buddhist leaders. Nearly a third of the respondents were college graduates, and more than half held advanced degrees. Politically, 60% identified themselves as Democrats, and Green Party affiliations outnumbered Republicans by 3 to 1. Import Buddhists were also proportionately more likely to have come from Catholic, and especially Jewish backgrounds. More than half of these adherents came to Buddhism through reading books on the topic, with the rest coming by way of martial arts and friends or acquaintances. The average age of the respondents was 46. Daily meditation was their most commonly cited Buddhist practice, with most meditating 30 minutes a day or more.\n\nIn 2015 a Pew Foundation survey found 67% of American Buddhists were raised in a religion other than Buddhism. 61% said their spouse has a religion other than Buddhism. The survey was conducted only in English and Spanish, and may under-estimate Buddhist immigrants who speak Asian languages. A 2012 Pew study found Buddhism is practiced by 15% of surveyed Chinese Americans, 6% of Koreans, 25% of Japanese, 43% of Vietnamese and 1% of Filipinos.\n\nOnly about a third (32%) of Buddhists in the United States are Asian; a majority (53%) are white. Buddhism in the America is primarily made up of native-born adherents, whites and converts.\n\nDiscussion about Buddhism in America has sometimes focused on the issue of the visible ethnic divide separating ethnic Buddhist congregations from import Buddhist groups. Although many Zen and Tibetan Buddhist temples were founded by Asians, they now attract fewer Asian-Americans. With the exception of Sōka Gakkai, almost all active Buddhist groups in America are either ethnic or import Buddhism based on the demographics of their membership. There is often limited contact between Buddhists of different ethnic groups.\n\nHowever, the cultural divide should not necessarily be seen as pernicious. It is often argued that the differences between Buddhist groups arise benignly from the differing needs and interests of those involved. Convert Buddhists tend to be interested in meditation and philosophy, in some cases eschewing the trappings of religiosity altogether. On the other hand, for immigrants and their descendants, preserving tradition and maintaining a social framework assume a much greater relative importance, making their approach to religion naturally more conservative. Further, based on a survey of Asian-American Buddhists in San Francisco, \"many Asian-American Buddhists view non-Asian Buddhism as still in a formative, experimental stage\" and yet they believe that it \"could eventually mature into a religious expression of exceptional quality\".\n\nAdditional questions come from the demographics within import Buddhism. The majority of American converts practicing at Buddhist centers are white, often from Christian or Jewish backgrounds. Only Sōka Gakkai has attracted significant numbers of African-American or Latino members. A variety of ideas have been broached regarding the nature, causes, and significance of this racial uniformity. Journalist Clark Strand noted\n\nStrand, writing for \"\" (an American Buddhist journal) in 2004, notes that SGI has specifically targeted African-Americans, Latinos and Asians, and other writers have noted that this approach has begun to spread, with Vipassana and Theravada retreats aimed at non-white practitioners led by a handful of specific teachers.\n\nA question is the degree of importance ascribed to discrimination, which is suggested to be mostly unconscious, on the part of white converts toward potential minority converts. To some extent, the racial divide indicates a class divide, because convert Buddhists tend to be more educated. Among African American Buddhists who commented on the dynamics of the racial divide in convert Buddhism are Jan Willis and Charles R. Johnson.\n\nA Pew study shows that Americans tend to be less biased towards Buddhists when compared to other religions, such as Christianity, to which 18% of people were biased, when only 14% were biased towards Buddhists. American Buddhists are often not raised as Buddhists, with 32% of American Buddhists being raised Protestant, and 22% being raised Catholic, which means that over half of the American Buddhists were converted at some point in time. Also, Buddhism has had to adapt to America in order to garner more followers so that the concept would not seem so foreign, so they adopted \"Catholic\" words such as \"worship\" and \"churches.\"\n\nChögyam Trungpa founded Naropa Institute in Boulder, Colorado, a four-year Buddhist college in the US (now Naropa University) in 1974. Allen Ginsberg was an initial faculty member, christening the Institute's poetry department the \"Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics\". Now Naropa University, the school offers accredited degrees in a number of subjects, many not directly related to Buddhism.\n\nThe University of the West is affiliated with Hsi Lai Temple and was previously Hsi Lai University. Soka University of America, in Aliso Viejo California, was founded by the Sōka Gakkai as a secular school committed to philosophic Buddhism. The City of Ten Thousand Buddhas is the site of Dharma Realm Buddhist University, a four-year college teaching courses primarily related to Buddhism but including some general-interest subjects. The Institute of Buddhist Studies in Berkeley, California, in addition to offering a master's degree in Buddhist Studies acts as the ministerial training arm of the Buddhist Churches of America and is affiliated with the Graduate Theological Union. The school moved into the Jodo Shinshu Center in Berkeley.\n\nThe first Buddhist high school in the United States, Developing Virtue Secondary School, was founded in 1981 by the Dharma Realm Buddhist Association at their branch monastery in the City of Ten Thousand Buddhas in Ukiah, California. In 1997, the Purple Lotus Buddhist School offered elementary-level classes in Union City, California, affiliated with the True Buddha School; it added a middle school in 1999 and a high school in 2001. Another Buddhist high school, Tinicum Art and Science now The Lotus School of Liberal Arts |url=http://Lotusla.org, which combines Zen practice and traditional liberal arts, opened in Ottsville, Pennsylvania in 1998. It is associated informally with the World Shim Gum Do Association in Boston. The Pacific Buddhist Academy opened in Honolulu, Hawaii in 2003. It shares a campus with the Hongwanji Mission School, an elementary and middle school; both schools affiliated with the Honpa Hongwanji Jodo Shinshu mission.\n\nJuniper Foundation, founded in 2003, holds that Buddhist methods must become integrated into modern culture just as they were in other cultures. Juniper Foundation calls its approach \"Buddhist training for modern life\" and it emphasizes meditation, balancing emotions, cultivating compassion and developing insight as four building blocks of Buddhist training.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39138888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39138888", "title": "Catherine Bell (religious studies scholar)", "text": "Catherine Bell (religious studies scholar)\n\nCatherine Bell (1953 – 23 May 2008) was an American religious studies scholar who specialised in the study of Chinese religions and ritual studies. From 1985 until her death she worked at Santa Clara University's religious studies department, of which she was chair from 2000 to 2005.\n\nBorn in New York City, she studied at Manhattanville College and University of Chicago Divinity School before briefly teaching in Japan at the Seishin Joshi Gakuin and International University of Japan. Returning to the United States, she began work at Santa Clara in 1985, devoting her research to Chinese ritual, resulting in her most prominent publication, \"Ritual Theory, Ritual Practice\" (1992). In 1998 she became the Bernard Hanley Professor of Religious Studies, before becoming chair of the religious studies department in 2000. Retiring due to persistent health problems in 2005, she continued to research until her death.\n\nBorn in New York City, Bell undertook her undergraduate studies at Manhattanville College, gaining a double-major BA in philosophy and religion in 1975. She proceeded to complete her MA in the History of Religion at the University of Chicago's Divinity School in 1976, continuing with a PhD there, completed in 1983. Moving to Japan, she taught at the Seishin Joshi Gakuin in Tokyo from 1982 to 1983, before moving to the International University of Japan in Nigata in 1983. She then undertook a post-doctoral fellowship for Chinese language study in Taiwan. Covering the costs for her international research, she obtained award fellowships from the Mellon Foundation, the American Council of Learned Societies, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Becoming a fellow of the Center for Chinese Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, and involved in their Chinese Popular Culture project, her studies of ritual praxes in Chinese religions led to her book \"Ritual Theory, Ritual Practice\", published in 1992.\n\nIn 1985 she began work at Santa Clara University. Focused on teaching undergraduates, courses she ran included \"Ways of Studying Religion,\" \"Asian Religions,\" \"Magic, Science and Religion,\" \"Time and the Millennium\" and \"Religion and Violence,\" each of which she based around a core intellectual question. Involved in restructuring the department's curriculum, in 1996 she was awarded the Brutocao Award for Excellence in Curriculum Innovation. She was also involved in the creation of a Women's Faculty Group and Faculty Development Program to aid junior members in the department. In 1998 she was named Bernard Hanley Professor of Religious Studies, that year being awarded the College of Arts and Sciences' Beyma Research Award. In 2001 she was then awarded the President's Award for distinction.\n\nBell served as chair of the department from 2000 to 2005, then stepping down to become professor emeritus; she took early retirement due to an inability to cope following her diagnosis with multiple sclerosis in 2000. In 2005, the University of Chicago Divinity School named her \"Alumna of the Year\", on their website praising her as \"a great scholar and teacher... [and] a skilled administrator\". She began work on a new project, \"Believing: Assuming Universality, Describing Particularity in the Study of Religion\", funded by another fellowship from the National Endowment for the Humanities, but it was left unfinished at the time of her death. Her unfinished manuscript, titled \"Believing and the Practice of Religion\", was later stored in Santa Clara's university library.\n\nBell died aged 55 on 23 May 2008, after a long illness. She was survived by her mother, sister, three brothers, and husband, Steven Gelber, who was a professor of history at Santa Clara. The chair of the Santa Clara religious studies department, Paul Crowley, described her as \"a magnificent colleague, a scholar of international standing, [and] an inspiring mentor to generations of students\". Historian of religion Reza Aslan asserted that she would be remembered for generations to come due to her \"rigorous scholarship\", and that she was \"unmatched\" as an academic. Having known her personally, Aslan also commented on her \"razor sharp wit, her boundless compassion, and refusal to accept anything but the best from her students.\"\n\nThe work was published in two editions, the original Oxford University Press edition in 1992, and an edition also from Oxford University Press in 2009 with a new prologue, which is also available in electronic versions. Both editions share the same pagination.\n\nReligious studies scholar Diane Jonte-Pace opined that the book \"changed the framework for understanding the nature and function of ritual\", constituting Bell's \"greatest contribution\" to religious studies. Having known Bell personally, Jonte-Pace thought that the book exhibited her \"fearless intellectual style\" and \"sense of freedom\" from past frameworks. Historian of religion Reza Aslan claimed that it \"launched a revolution\" in the way that scholars understood the subject, becoming \"required reading\" for students of religious studies.\n\nIt was awarded \"Best First Book in the History of Religions\" from the American Academy of Religion in 1994.\n\nBecause of the importance of this work for the field of ritual studies, a survey of the work is in order. The book is organized into three major sections: \"The Practice of Ritual Theory\" (chapters 1-3), which generally surveys the prior work in the field and situates Bell's book in that context; \"The Sense of Ritual\" (chapters 4-6), which develops the concept of ritual in terms of bodies and the external systems within which they work; and \"Ritual and Power\" (chapters 7-9), which frames the discussion of ritual in society, with the attending questions of power and authority.\n\nCatherine Bell introduces the study of ritual theory in chapter 1. (19) She presents the idea of dichotomies and how they differentiate between conceptual blueprints (such as beliefs and myths) and ritual (something acted out). Ritual is seen as a performance of conceptual orientations. (19) Bell integrates the ideas and theories of Edward Shils, Durkheim, Stanley Tambiah, Victor Turner, Marshall Sahlins and Claude Levi-Strauss all pertaining to ritual studies. Ritual is understood as a structural mechanism that reintegrates the two opposing dichotomies of thought and action, which is equivalent to the belief and behavior dichotomy. (20) In the sense of community, ritual is seen as a way to create a collective set of beliefs or ideals. In an ever changing society, ritual is the bridge between tradition and constant social change. (20) Ritual symbolism plays a role in the natural struggle of humans with their moral self and external “socio-political” order and constraints of the world. (24) However, this theory of ritual symbolism is seen as incomplete because 1) it does not have any cultural analysis in its explanation and 2) it does not take into consideration the duality of human nature. Bell reestablishes the different dichotomies that are at play against one another: continuity and change, individual experience and social forms, beliefs and behaviors, and thought and action. (25)\n\nCatherine Bell maintains the idea that a successful ritual is one in which both cultural and sociological aspects work together. (34, 35) Bell bases her model of ritual on three elements: ritual as an activity, as a fusion of thought and activity, and the dichotomy between actor and thinker. (31) Ritual performs and enacts a system of symbols by integrating the conceptual and dispositional (i.e., the worldview and ethos). Ritual actors integrate worldview and the ethos (conceptual and dispositional) while the theorist integrates these conceptual categories. (32)\n\nBuilding on the idea of the \"acting actor\", (31) ritual is now seen as “cultural performance” (37) and is “dramatisized”. (38) Comparing symbols with either indexicality or iconicity allows for many interpretations of symbolism. (42) Iconicity, for example, within Christianity might include all images of a man hanging on a cross symbolize to a crucifix (reference: http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/crucifix) . Ritual may be understood as communication among people, rather than individuals with the divine. (43) An Islamic example might be going to \"jumu'ah\" so others perceive the actor as pious. After a debate of what meaning is, from the views of Clifford Geertz and Stanley Jeyaraja Tambiah, the next dichotic lens in which to view ritual is drama vs. performance. (43-44) Drama insinuates the individual participating in the ritual is like an actor; they are simply doing the actions and saying things, while their internal thoughts are irrelevant. (43) Performance may simply be the act of the ritual, the participant may be disregarded. Through text analogy one may see ritual as a text. (43) Text may be seen as unchanging, knowable and designed to be knowable, yet when studying text one may interpret and analyze it for oneself; that allows for variation of meaning, change over time, fluidity, which is essential for ritual. (43-45) However, texts are made to communicate directly with a reader, yet not all rituals communicate in the same way. (45)\n\nThe body is seen in various ways with different functionalities and uses, where some view its purpose as a connector between the individual and society. (94) Bell discusses the ideas of Durkheim, Mauss, and Hertz on the body, arguing that bodily expressions are social in nature and acquired in practice. (94) In contrast to this perception, Bell includes Lakoff’s argument that these basic categories are inherent and rooted in the sociobiological body. (96) Bell argues that the body is no longer a physical instrument to perform rituals but in fact a social body that connects to society. (97)\n\nThe ritualized body is one that contains a ‘sense’ of values of ritual.(98) The ritual body is produced through interactions of the body with structure and a structured environment, therefore forming a relationship between the body and the environment around it, such as Muslims' prayer in a mosque. The actions that take place in a “ritual space” have a connection to the environment because it molds the way the environment is presented.(100) Yet the physical actions such as standing up straight or kneeling down during \"salat\" do not express inner states such as emotions or intentions of the individual. What one individual sees in terms of ritual action is not the display of one’s inner state or values.(100) Many rituals take part in certain performances that are mandated by the authority of history, such as Muslims sacrificing animals on the day of Eid Al-Adha. If one believes in the exact repetition of an age-old ritual in the present day then no ritual style is autonomous.(101)\n\nBell describes a hierarchical system created via linguistic or physical means and organized by the creation of oppositions through ritualization. (104) She describes that although these oppositions may be in contrast, they do not always necessarily balance one another out, and some dominate over others (for example, the receiving of Eucharist (or the inner) dominates the act of lifting and lowering heads (or the outer) in the Catholic church). (102) She describes how the body molds a ritualized agent through the production of a structured environment based on oppositions. (106) However, this interaction of body and environment, or ritualization, simply shifts the nature of social problems to endless circular schemes, where no resolution is produced, only implied. (106-7)\n\nBell holds, ritualized agents see their purpose, but not what they actually do in ritually changing a situation. This is what she states Althusser views as the “...intrinsic blindness of practice.” (108) As far as ritual and language are concerned, Bell states that there are two main controversies: first, comparing ritual language to verbal/textual language; second, the role of aforementioned verbal/textual language in ritual. (110) Bell mentions Tambiah and other scholars see ritual communication as not only another form of expression, but a way of expressing things that would be impossible to express in any other manner. (111) Bell argues language may be the most important part of some rituals. (113) She closes this section stating, “That is to say within the medium of formally explicit discourse, there is nothing there to grasp, just a variety of culturally instinctive and flexible schemes with which to avoid and undermine everything but the ritual acts themselves.” (114)\n\nSince there is a difference between thought and action in ritual the same idea applies for what theoretical practice sees and does not see itself doing (the object-unity of theoretical discourse). (114) Seeing and not-seeing is the production of agents embodying sense of ritual constituted by and expressed in particular schemes of ritualization.(114) The schemes start to shape the world and spread out causing disposition of ritualization.(115) Shared culture may strategically transform the way one group practices from another in terms of the simple alterations of actions in ritual, which are then deployed around the area.The saying \"fake it till you make it\" is a good way to sum up the thoughts of Bell because as children are younger they learn so many rituals in our respective faiths but it is not until later in life that they give those rituals meaning and practice them as more than mere action. It is necessary to explore the actual contexts of ritualization by looking at a more accurate actions for ritualization, and the history behind the traditions practiced.(117)\n\nIn chapter 8, Bell evaluates the symbiotic relationship between ritual and belief. (182) Bell states that ritual is typically viewed as an expression of belief and holds social power, which generates change. (182) Bell believes that religious belief is understood in many different ways and that personal interpretation makes it difficult to analyze in a social context, despite being social in nature. (183) Bell also points out that belief is complex and its association with ritual is challenged. The intended belief behind ritual may be misunderstood by the participants, indicating that their participation in the ritual may not necessarily support or understand the initial institutional belief. (183)\n\nBell gives a detailed description of two notions of ideology. Although Bell describes two views, she discusses ideology implemented within a society as a way for the dominant class to maintain power and control. (188-92) Bell maintains Gramsci’s belief that the dominated class rarely passively accepts and internalizes the dominant class' values, but instead consents to a more appropriate alternative. (190) She concludes that in this way, ideology is a unifying form of power which creates a greater distribution of control than relationships that exist with the use of pure force. (193)\n\nBell’s presentation maintains the notion that ritual, political power and legitimation of power are three interdependent theories. Historically, ritual was cast as a mere “artifice” used to conceal the \"brute exercise of real power\". Thus sacred kingships throughout the past centuries used ritual as a tool to install hierarchy and fulfill political agendas. She invites the readers to question ritual as no longer a self-fulfilling tool but also a power tool for mass governance. Ritual constructs an argument, all while maintaining social order. It does not ‘disguise the exercise of power’ - it is in itself the power.\n\nPower and authority play a strong role in Bell’s view of ritual: one does not necessarily have both. (197) A person in power may use that control to affect views within society, limiting other’s individual autonomy. (198) The power may be used through symbolic power, where it may be used to help understand the actions and meanings of the world. (199) The top of the hierarchy only has power if the bottom responds to the directions from the top. (200) The individual, she concludes, is ultimately in power. (203) Bell seems to present the power relationship between individuals and society as a complex strategy to organize social norms. (204)\n\nOne aspect of ritualization is the differentiation and privileging of certain activities. (204) Features by which these activities differentiate themselves are not universal. Since ritual is a “way of acting” that is distinguished by a certain culture or situation, generalizing ritual strategies into a universal phenomenon undermines its logic. (205) Ritualizing strategies may be implemented without the involvement of religious activities. The purpose of ritualization might be to incite a controversy or to create certain impressions. Any moderately socialized person may use ritualization, both in its cultural and situational forms, as a strategy by distinguishing or blurring the boundary that makes an activity a “specific way of acting”. (206) Bell suggests that the deployment of ritualization is the construction of power relationships - one of domination, consent or resistance. While ritualization may be an effective strategy of power in some certain conditions, it has specific limits and may even be counterproductive in other scenarios. (206) Ritualization has two basic dimensions. The first dimension is the dynamics of the social body and its projection of a structured environment, where ritualization produces and objectifies the constructions of power. (207) The second dimension illustrates the limits of most ritual practice, which is the empowerment of those who were initially controlled by ritual relations, due to the fact that participation in ritual activities requires a conscious consent. (209) Bell then emphasizes that both participation in ritualization and objectification of power are negotiated processes, and since ritualization may foster a misrecognition of the level of consensus, it limits the social efficacy of ritualization and affects both those who dominate and those who are dominated. (210)\n\nRitualization may be viewed as a source of power and authority for people in a position to influence ritual, and as a source of power for the individual. (211) In one form, ritual may be seen as a “‘blunt tool.’” (212) Bell asserts that ritual power is interpreted as an external power tapped into by whoever holds an office. She maintains that there are three forms of empowerment for those in charge of ritualization: objectification of office, hierarchization of practices, and creating tradition. (211) Furthermore, in some ways ritual defines the self. Tambiah and Bloch in contrast to some other scholars view the formalization of ritual as furthering the divide between one’s sense of self and one’s ritual practices. (216) Bell in part looks at ritual through the lens of individual empowerment. \"The person who has prayed to his or her god, appropriating the social schemes of the hegemonic order in terms of an individual redemption, may be stronger because these acts are the very definitions of power, personhood, and the ability to act.” (217-8)\n\nBell's second major work was published in 1997. She intended it to be \"a more holistic and pragmatic orientation to multiple dimensions of the phenomenon of ritual\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2987732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2987732", "title": "Child sacrifice in pre-Columbian cultures", "text": "Child sacrifice in pre-Columbian cultures\n\nThe practice of child sacrifice in Pre-Columbian cultures, in particular Mesoamerican and South American cultures, is well documented both in the archaeological records and in written sources. The exact ideologies behind child sacrifice in different pre-Columbian cultures are unknown but it is often thought to have been performed in order to placate certain gods.\n\nAlthough there is no incontrovertible evidence of child sacrifice in the Olmec civilization, full skeletons of newborn or unborn infants, as well as dismembered femurs and skulls, have been found at the El Manatí sacrificial bog. These bones are associated with sacrificial offerings, particularly wooden busts. It is not known yet how the infants met their deaths.\n\nSome researchers have also associated infant sacrifice with Olmec ritual art showing limp \"were-jaguar\" babies, most famously in La Venta's Altar 5 (to the right) or Las Limas figure. Definitive answers await further findings.\n\nIn 2005 a mass grave of one- to two-year-old sacrificed children was found in the Maya region of Comalcalco. The sacrifices were apparently performed for consecration purposes when building temples at the Comalcalco acropolis.\n\nThere are also skulls suggestive of child sacrifice dating to the Maya periods. Mayanists believe that, like the Aztecs, the Maya performed child sacrifice in specific circumstances. For example, infant sacrifice would occur to satisfy supernatural beings who would have eaten the souls of more powerful people. In the Classic period some Maya art that depict the extraction of children's hearts during the ascension to the throne of the new kings, or at the beginnings of the Maya calendar have been studied. In one of these cases, Stela 11 in Piedras Negras, Guatemala, a sacrificed boy can be seen. Other scenes of sacrificed boys are visible on painted jars.\n\nThere is evidence of child sacrifice in Teotihuacano culture. As early as 1906, Leopoldo Batres uncovered burials of children at the four corners of the Pyramid of the Sun. Archaeologists have found newborn skeletons associated with altars, leading some to suspect \"deliberate death by infant sacrifice\".\n\nIn 2007, archaeologists announced that they had analyzed the remains of 24 children, aged 5 to 15, found buried together with a figurine of Tlaloc. The children, found near the ancient ruins of the Toltec capital of Tula, had been decapitated. The remains have been dated to AD 950 to 1150.\n\n\"To try and explain why there are 24 bodies grouped in the same place, well, the only way is to think that there was a human sacrifice\", archaeologist Luis Gamboa said.\n\nAztec religion is one of the most widely documented pre-Hispanic cultures. Diego Durán in the \"Book of the Gods and Rites\" wrote about the religious practices devoted to the water gods, Tlaloc and Chalchiuhtlicue, and a very important part of their annual ritual included the sacrifice of infants and young children.\n\nAccording to Bernardino de Sahagún, the Aztecs believed that, if sacrifices were not given to Tlaloc, the rain would not come and their crops would not grow. Archaeologists have found the remains of 42 children sacrificed to Tlaloc (and a few to Ehecátl Quetzalcóatl) in the offerings of the Great Pyramid of Tenochtitlan. In every case, the 42 children, mostly males aged around six, were suffering from serious cavities, abscesses or bone infections that would have been painful enough to make them cry continually. Tlaloc required the tears of the young so their tears would wet the earth. As a result, if children did not cry, the priests would sometimes tear off the children's nails before the ritual sacrifice.\n\nFernando de Alva Cortés Ixtlilxochitl, an Aztec descendant and the author of the Codex Ixtlilxochitl, claimed that one in five children of the Mexica subjects was killed annually. These high figures have not been confirmed by historians. Hernán Cortés describes an event in his \"Letters\":\n\nIn Xochimilco, the remains of a three-to-four-year-old boy were found. The skull was broken and the bones had an orange/yellowish cast, a vitreous texture, and porous and compacted tissue. Aztecs have been known to boil down remains of some sacrificed victims to remove the flesh and place the skull in the tzompantli. Archaeologists concluded that the skull was boiled and that it cracked due to the ebullition of the brain mass. Photographs of the skull have been published in specialized journals.\n\nIn \"History of the Things of New Spain\" Sahagún confesses he was aghast by the fact that, during the first month of the year, the child sacrifices were approved by their own parents, who also ate their children.\n\nIn the month \"Atlacacauallo\" of the Aztec calendar (from February 2 to February 21 of the Gregorian Calendar) children and captives were sacrificed to the water deities, Tláloc, Chalchitlicue, and Ehécatl.\n\nIn the month \"Tozoztontli\" (from March 14 to April 2) children were sacrificed to Coatlicue, Tlaloc, Chalchitlicue, Tona.\n\nIn the month \"Hueytozoztli\" (from April 3 to April 22) a maid; a boy and a girl were sacrificed to Cintéotl, Chicomecacóatl, Tlaloc and Quetzalcoatl.\n\nIn the month \"Tepeilhuitl\" (from September 30 to October 19) children and two noble women were sacrificed by extraction of the heart and flaying; ritual cannibalism in honor of Tláloc-Napatecuhtli, Matlalcueye, Xochitécatl, Mayáhuel, Milnáhuatl, Napatecuhtli, Chicomecóatl, Xochiquétzal.\n\nIn the month \"Atemoztli\" (from November 29 to December 18) children and slaves were sacrificed by decapitation in honor to the Tlaloques.\n\nArchaeologists have also uncovered physical evidence of child sacrifice at several other pre-Columbian cultures. For example, the Moche of Northern Peru sacrificed teenagers en masse, as archaeologist Steve Bourget found when he uncovered the bones of 42 male adolescents in 1995.\n\n\"Qhapaq hucha\" was the Inca practice of human sacrifice, mainly using children.\nThe Incas performed child sacrifices during or after important events, such as the death of the Sapa Inca (emperor) or during a famine. Children were selected as sacrificial victims as they were considered to be the purest of beings. These children were also physically perfect and healthy, because they were the best the people could present to their gods. The victims may be as young as 6 and as old as 15.\n\nMonths or even years before the sacrifice pilgrimage, the children were fattened up. Their diets were those of the elite, consisting of maize and animal proteins. They were dressed in fine clothing and jewelry and escorted to Cusco to meet the emperor where a feast was held in their honor. More than 100 precious ornaments were found to be buried with these children in the burial site.\n\nThe Incan high priests took the children to high mountaintops for sacrifice. As the journey was extremely long and arduous, especially so for the younger, coca leaves were fed to them to aid them in their breathing so as to allow them to reach the burial site alive. Upon reaching the burial site, the children were given an intoxicating drink to minimize pain, fear, and resistance. They were then killed either by strangulation, a blow to the head, or by leaving them to lose consciousness in the extreme cold and die of exposure.\n\nEarly colonial Spanish missionaries wrote about this practice but only recently have archaeologists such as Johan Reinhard begun to find the bodies of these victims on Andean mountaintops, naturally mummified due to the freezing temperatures and dry windy mountain air.\n\nIn 1995, the body of an almost entirely frozen young Inca girl (age 15), later named Mummy Juanita, was discovered on Mount Ampato. Two more ice-preserved mummies, one girl (age 6) and one boy (age 8), were discovered nearby a short while later. All showed signs of alcohol and coco leaves in their system, making them fall asleep, only to be frozen to death. The boy was the only one who showed signs of resistance, due to his hands and feet being tied up. It is also speculated that he might have died from suffocation, as vomit and blood were found on his clothing.\n\nIn 1999, near Llullaillaco's 6739 meter summit, an Argentine-Peruvian expedition found the perfectly preserved bodies of three Inca children, sacrificed approximately 500 years earlier, including a 15-year-old girl, nicknamed \"La doncella\" (the maiden), a seven-year-old boy, and a six-year-old girl, nicknamed \"La niña del rayo\" (the lightning girl). The latter's nickname reflects the fact that sometime during the 500-years on the summit, the preseved body was struck by lightning, partially burning it and some of the ceremonial artifacts. The three mummies are exhibited in rotating fashion at the Museum of High Altitude Archaeology, specially built for them in Salta, Argentina.\n\nScientific investigation suggests some child victims were drugged with ethanol and coca leaves during the time before their deaths.\n\nThe Timoto-Cuicas worshiped idols of stone and clay, built temples, and offered human sacrifices. Until colonial times, children were sacrificed secretly in Laguna de Urao, (Mérida). This was chronicled by Juan de Castellanos, who described the feasts and human sacrifices that were done in honour of Icaque, an Andean prehispanic goddess.\n\nMound 72 at the Mississippian culture site of Cahokia, directly across the Mississippi River from modern St. Louis, Missouri, contained the remains of \"scores of clearly sacrificed female retainers\" as well as four headless and handless male skeletons. The roughly contemporaneous site of Dickson Mounds, some 100 miles (150 km) to the north, also contained a mass grave with four headless male skeletons.\n\nThe Pawnee practiced an annual Morning Star ceremony, which included the sacrifice of a young girl. Though the ritual continued, the sacrifice was discontinued in the 19th Century.\n\nThe Iroquois are said to have occasionally sent a maiden to the Great Spirit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3373005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3373005", "title": "Coelia Concordia", "text": "Coelia Concordia\n\nCoelia Concordia was the last vestal virgin in history and the last \"Vestalis Maxima\" or Chief Vestal. The Temple of Vesta was closed in 391 by the Roman emperor Theodosius I, and Coelia stepped down from her post in 394. She converted to Christianity later in her life, and died twelve years later.\n\n"}
{"id": "1008588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1008588", "title": "Cult", "text": "Cult\n\nIn modern English, the term cult has come to usually refer to a social group defined by its religious, spiritual, or philosophical beliefs, or its common interest in a particular personality, object or goal. This sense of the term is controversial and it has divergent definitions in both popular culture and academia and it also has been an ongoing source of contention among scholars across several fields of study. This sense of the term is usually pejorative.\n\nIn the sociological classifications of religious movements, a cult is a social group with socially deviant or novel beliefs and practices, although this is often unclear. Other researchers present a less-organized picture of cults, saying that they arise spontaneously around novel beliefs and practices. Groups said to be cults range in size from local groups with a few members to international organizations with millions.\n\nAn older sense of the word cult—covered in a different article—is a set of religious devotional practices that are conventional within their culture and related to a particular figure, and often associated with a particular place. References to the \"cult\" of, for example, a particular Catholic saint, or the imperial cult of ancient Rome, use this sense of the word. \n\nBeginning in the 1930s, cults became the object of sociological study in the context of the study of religious behavior. From the 1940s the Christian countercult movement has opposed some sects and new religious movements, and it labelled them as cults for their \"un-Christian\" unorthodox beliefs. The secular anti-cult movement began in the 1970s and it opposed certain groups, often charging them with mind control and partly motivated in reaction to acts of violence committed by some of their members. Some of the claims and actions of the anti-cult movement have been disputed by scholars and by the news media, leading to further public controversy.\n\nThe term \"new religious movement\" refers to religions which have appeared since the mid-1800s. Many, but not all of them, have been considered to be cults. Sub-categories of cults include: Doomsday cults, personality cults, political cults, destructive cults, racist cults, polygamist cults, and terrorist cults. Various national governments have reacted to cult-related issues in different ways, and this has sometimes led to controversy.\n\nEnglish-speakers originally used the word \"cult\" not to describe a group of religionists, but to refer to the act of worship or to a religious ceremony. The English term originated in the early 17th century, borrowed via the French \"culte\", from the Latin noun \"cultus\" (worship). The word ultimately derived from the Latin adjective \"cultus\" (inhabited, cultivated, worshipped), based on the verb \"colere\" (to care, to cultivate).\n\nWhile the literal original sense of the word in English remains in use, a derived sense of \"excessive devotion\" arose in the 19th century. The terms \"cult\" and \"cultist\" came into use in medical literature in the United States in the 1930s for what would now be termed \"faith healing\", especially as practised in the US Holiness movement. This usage experienced a surge of popularity at the time, and extended to other forms of alternative medicine as well. \n\nIn the English-speaking world the word \"cult\" often carries derogatory connotations. It has always been controversial because it is (in a pejorative sense) considered a subjective term, used as an \"ad hominem\" attack against groups with differing doctrines or practices.\n\nIn the 1970s, with the rise of secular anti-cult movements, scholars (but not the general public) began abandoning the term \"cult\". According to \"The Oxford Handbook of Religious Movements\", \"by the end of the decade, the term 'new religions' would virtually replace 'cult' to describe all of those leftover groups that did not fit easily under the label of church or sect.\"\n\nA new religious movement (NRM) is a religious community or spiritual group of modern origins (since the mid-1800s), which has a peripheral place within its society's dominant religious culture. NRMs can be novel in origin or part of a wider religion, in which case they are distinct from pre-existing denominations. In 1999 Eileen Barker estimated that NRMs, of which some but not all have been labelled as cults, number in the tens of thousands worldwide, most of which originated in Asia or Africa; and that the great majority of which have only a few members, some have thousands and only very few have more than a million. In 2007 the religious scholar Elijah Siegler commented that, although no NRM had become the dominant faith in any country, many of the concepts which they had first introduced (often referred to as \"New Age\" ideas) have become part of worldwide mainstream culture.\n\nSociologist Max Weber (1864–1920) found that cults based on charismatic leadership often follow the routinization of charisma.\nThe concept of a \"cult\" as a sociological classification was introduced in 1932 by American sociologist Howard P. Becker as an expansion of German theologian Ernst Troeltsch's church-sect typology. Troeltsch's aim was to distinguish between three main types of religious behavior: churchly, sectarian and mystical. Becker created four categories out of Troeltsch's first two by splitting \"church\" into \"ecclesia\" and \"denomination\", and \"sect\" into \"sect\" and \"cult\". Like Troeltsch's \"mystical religion\", Becker's cults were small religious groups lacking in organization and emphasizing the private nature of personal beliefs. Later sociological formulations built on these characteristics, placing an additional emphasis on cults as deviant religious groups \"deriving their inspiration from outside of the predominant religious culture\". This is often thought to lead to a high degree of tension between the group and the more mainstream culture surrounding it, a characteristic shared with religious sects. In this sociological terminology, \"sects\" are products of religious schism and therefore maintain a continuity with traditional beliefs and practices, while \"cults\" arise spontaneously around novel beliefs and practices.\n\nIn the early 1960s, sociologist John Lofland lived with South Korean missionary Young Oon Kim and some of the first American Unification Church members in California, during which he studied their activities in trying to promote their beliefs and win new members. Lofland noted that most of their efforts were ineffective and that most of the people who joined did so because of personal relationships with other members, often family relationships. Lofland published his findings in 1964 as a doctoral thesis entitled: \"The World Savers: A Field Study of Cult Processes\", and in 1966 in book form by Prentice-Hall as \"\". It is considered to be one of the most important and widely cited studies of the process of religious conversion.\n\nSociologist Roy Wallis (1945–1990) argued that a cult is characterized by \"epistemological individualism\", meaning that \"the cult has no clear locus of final authority beyond the individual member\". Cults, according to Wallis, are generally described as \"oriented towards the problems of individuals, loosely structured, tolerant [and] non-exclusive\", making \"few demands on members\", without possessing a \"clear distinction between members and non-members\", having \"a rapid turnover of membership\" and as being transient collectives with vague boundaries and fluctuating belief systems. Wallis asserts that cults emerge from the \"cultic milieu\".\n\nIn 1978 Bruce Campbell noted that cults are associated with beliefs in a divine element in the individual. It is either Soul, Self, or True Self. Cults are inherently ephemeral and loosely organized. There is a major theme in many of the recent works that show the relationship between cults and mysticism. Campbell brings two major types of cults to attention. One is mystical and the other is instrumental. This can divide the cults into being either occult or metaphysical assembly. On the basis that Campbell proposes cults, they are non-traditional religious groups based on belief in a divine element in the individual. There is also a third type. This is service-oriented. Campbell states that \"the kinds of stable forms which evolve in the development of religious organization will bear a significant relationship to the content of the religious experience of the founder or founders.\" \n\nDick Anthony, a forensic psychologist known for his criticism of brainwashing theory of conversion, has defended some so-called cults, and in 1988 argued that involvement in such movements may often have beneficial, rather than harmful effects, saying \"There's a large research literature published in mainstream journals on the mental health effects of new religions. For the most part, the effects seem to be positive in any way that's measurable.\"\n\nIn their 1996 book \"Theory of Religion\", American sociologists Rodney Stark and William Sims Bainbridge propose that the formation of cults can be explained through the rational choice theory. In \"The Future of Religion\" they comment \"...in the beginning, all religions are obscure, tiny, deviant cult movements\". According to Marc Galanter, Professor of Psychiatry at NYU, typical reasons why people join cults include a search for community and a spiritual quest. Stark and Bainbridge, in discussing the process by which individuals join new religious groups, have even questioned the utility of the concept of \"conversion\", suggesting that \"affiliation\" is a more useful concept.\n\nBeginning in the 1700s authors in the English-speaking world began introducing members of cults as antagonists. Satanists, sects of the Latter Day Saint movement, and Thuggees were popular choices. In the Twentieth century concern for the rights and feelings of religious minorities led authors to most often invent fictional cults for their villains to be members of. Fictional cults continue to be popular in film, television, and gaming in the same way; while some popular works treat real cults and new religious movements in a serious manner.\n\nIn the 1940s, the long-held opposition by some established Christian denominations to non-Christian religions and/or supposedly heretical, or counterfeit, Christian sects crystallized into a more organized Christian countercult movement in the United States. For those belonging to the movement, all religious groups claiming to be Christian, but deemed outside of Christian orthodoxy, were considered cults. Christian cults are new religious movements which have a Christian background but are considered to be theologically deviant by members of other Christian churches. In his influential book \"The Kingdom of the Cults\" (first published in the United States in 1965), Christian scholar Walter Martin defines Christian cults as groups that follow the personal interpretation of an individual, rather than the understanding of the Bible accepted by mainstream Christianity. He mentions The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Christian Science, Jehovah's Witnesses, Unitarian Universalism, and Unity as examples.\n\nThe Christian countercult movement asserts that Christian sects whose beliefs are partially or wholly not in accordance with the Bible are erroneous. It also states that a religious sect can be considered a cult if its beliefs involve a denial of what they view as any of the essential Christian teachings such as salvation, the Trinity, Jesus himself as a person, the ministry of Jesus, the miracles of Jesus, the Crucifixion, the Resurrection of Christ, the Second Coming of Christ, and the Rapture.\n\nCountercult literature usually expresses doctrinal or theological concerns and a missionary or apologetic purpose. It presents a rebuttal by emphasizing the teachings of the Bible against the beliefs of non-fundamental Christian sects. Christian countercult activist writers also emphasize the need for Christians to evangelize to followers of cults.\n\nIn the early 1970s, a secular opposition movement to groups considered cults had taken shape. The organizations that formed the secular \"anti-cult movement\" (ACM) often acted on behalf of relatives of \"cult\" converts who did not believe their loved ones could have altered their lives so drastically by their own free will. A few psychologists and sociologists working in this field suggested that brainwashing techniques were used to maintain the loyalty of cult members. The belief that cults brainwashed their members became a unifying theme among cult critics and in the more extreme corners of the anti-cult movement techniques like the sometimes forceful \"deprogramming\" of cult members was practiced.\n\nSecular cult opponents belonging to the anti-cult movement usually define a \"cult\" as a group that tends to manipulate, exploit, and control its members. Specific factors in cult behavior are said to include manipulative and authoritarian mind control over members, communal and totalistic organization, aggressive proselytizing, systematic programs of indoctrination, and perpetuation in middle-class communities. In the mass media, and among average citizens, \"cult\" gained an increasingly negative connotation, becoming associated with things like kidnapping, brainwashing, psychological abuse, sexual abuse and other criminal activity, and mass suicide. While most of these negative qualities usually have real documented precedents in the activities of a very small minority of new religious groups, mass culture often extends them to any religious group viewed as culturally deviant, however peaceful or law abiding it may be.\n\nWhile some psychologists were receptive to these theories, sociologists were for the most part sceptical of their ability to explain conversion to NRMs. In the late 1980s, psychologists and sociologists started to abandon theories like brainwashing and mind-control. While scholars may believe that various less dramatic coercive psychological mechanisms could influence group members, they came to see conversion to new religious movements principally as an act of a rational choice.\n\nBecause of the increasingly pejorative use of the words \"cult\" and \"cult leader\" since the cult debate of the 1970s, some academics, in addition to groups referred to as cults, argue that these are words to be avoided. Catherine Wessinger (Loyola University New Orleans) has stated that the word \"cult\" represents just as much prejudice and antagonism as racial slurs or derogatory words for women and homosexuals. She has argued that it is important for people to become aware of the bigotry conveyed by the word, drawing attention to the way it dehumanises the group's members and their children. Labeling a group as subhuman, she says, becomes a justification for violence against it. She also says that labeling a group a \"cult\" makes people feel safe, because the \"violence associated with religion is split off from conventional religions, projected onto others, and imagined to involve only aberrant groups\". This fails to take into account that child abuse, sexual abuse, financial extortion and warfare have also been committed by believers of mainstream religions, but the pejorative \"cult\" stereotype makes it easier to avoid confronting this uncomfortable fact.\n\nSociologist Amy Ryan has argued for the need to differentiate those groups that may be dangerous from groups that are more benign. Ryan notes the sharp differences between definition from cult opponents, who tend to focus on negative characteristics, and those of sociologists, who aim to create definitions that are value-free. The movements themselves may have different definitions of religion as well. George Chryssides also cites a need to develop better definitions to allow for common ground in the debate. In \"Defining Religion in American Law\", Bruce J. Casino presents the issue as crucial to international human rights laws. Limiting the definition of religion may interfere with freedom of religion, while too broad a definition may give some dangerous or abusive groups \"a limitless excuse for avoiding all unwanted legal obligations\".\n\n\"Destructive cult\" generally refers to groups whose members have, through deliberate action, physically injured or killed other members of their own group or other people. The Ontario Consultants on Religious Tolerance specifically limits the use of the term to religious groups that \"have caused or are liable to cause loss of life among their membership or the general public\". Psychologist Michael Langone, executive director of the anti-cult group International Cultic Studies Association, defines a destructive cult as \"a highly manipulative group which exploits and sometimes physically and/or psychologically damages members and recruits\".\n\nJohn Gordon Clark cited totalitarian systems of governance and an emphasis on money making as characteristics of a destructive cult. In \"Cults and the Family\" the authors cite Shapiro, who defines a \"destructive cultism\" as a sociopathic syndrome, whose distinctive qualities include: \"behavioral and personality changes, loss of personal identity, cessation of scholastic activities, estrangement from family, disinterest in society and pronounced mental control and enslavement by cult leaders\".\n\nIn the opinion of Benjamin Zablocki, a Professor of Sociology at Rutgers University, destructive cults are at high risk of becoming abusive to members. He states that this is in part due to members' adulation of charismatic leaders contributing to the leaders becoming corrupted by power. According to Barrett, the most common accusation made against destructive cults is sexual abuse. According to Kranenborg, some groups are risky when they advise their members not to use regular medical care. This may extend to physical and psychological harm.\n\nSome researchers have criticized the usage of the term \"destructive cult\", writing that it is used to describe groups which are not necessarily harmful in nature to themselves or others. In his book \"Understanding New Religious Movements\", John A. Saliba writes that the term is overgeneralized. Saliba sees the Peoples Temple as the \"paradigm of a destructive cult\", where those that use the term are implying that other groups will also commit mass suicide.\n\nWriting in the book \"Misunderstanding Cults: Searching for Objectivity in a Controversial Field\", contributor Julius H. Rubin complains that the term has been used to discredit certain groups in the court of public opinion. In his work \"Cults in Context\" author Lorne L. Dawson writes that although the Unification Church \"has not been shown to be violent or volatile\", it has been described as a destructive cult by \"anticult crusaders\". In 2002, the German government was held by Germany's Federal Constitutional Court to have defamed the Osho movement by referring to it, among other things, as a \"destructive cult\" with no factual basis.\n\n\"Doomsday cult\" is an expression which is used to describe groups that believe in Apocalypticism and Millenarianism, and it can also be used to refer both to groups that predict disaster, and to groups that attempt to bring it about. In the 1950s American social psychologist Leon Festinger and his colleagues observed members of a small UFO religion called the Seekers for several months, and recorded their conversations both prior to and after a failed prophecy from their charismatic leader. Their work was later published in the book \"When Prophecy Fails: A Social and Psychological Study of a Modern Group that Predicted the Destruction of the World\". In the late 1980s doomsday cults were a major topic of news reports, with some reporters and commentators considering them to be a serious threat to society. A 1997 psychological study by Festinger, Riecken, and Schachter found that people turned to a cataclysmic world view after they had repeatedly failed to find meaning in mainstream movements.\n\nA political cult is a cult with a primary interest in political action and ideology. Groups which some writers have termed \"political cults\", mostly advocating far-left or far-right agendas, have received some attention from journalists and scholars. In their 2000 book \"On the Edge: Political Cults Right and Left\", Dennis Tourish and Tim Wohlforth discuss about a dozen organizations in the United States and Great Britain that they characterize as cults. In a separate article Tourish says that in his usage: The word cult is not a term of abuse, as this paper tries to explain. It is nothing more than a shorthand expression for a particular set of practices that have been observed in a variety of dysfunctional organisations. \n\nThe LaRouche Movement and Gino Parente's National Labor Federation (NATLFED) are examples of political groups that have been described as \"cults\", based in the United States; another is Marlene Dixon's now-defunct Democratic Workers Party (a critical history of the DWP is given in \"Bounded Choice\" by Janja A. Lalich, a sociologist and former DWP member).\n\nThe followers of Ayn Rand were characterized as a \"cult\" by economist Murray N. Rothbard during her lifetime, and later by Michael Shermer. The core group around Rand was called the \"Collective\" and is now defunct (the chief group disseminating Rand's ideas today is the Ayn Rand Institute). Although the Collective advocated an individualist philosophy, Rothbard claimed they were organized in the manner of a \"Leninist\" organization.\n\nIn Britain, the Workers Revolutionary Party, a Trotskyist group led by the late Gerry Healy and strongly supported by actress Vanessa Redgrave, has been described by others, who have been involved in the Trotskyist movement, as having been a cult or as displaying cult-like characteristics in the 1970s and 1980s. It is also described as such by Tourish and Wohlforth in their writings. In his review of Tourish and Wohlforth's book, Bob Pitt, a former member of the WRP concedes that it had a \"cult-like character\" but argues that rather than being typical of the far left, this feature actually made the WRP atypical and \"led to its being treated as a pariah within the revolutionary left itself\".\nWorkers' Struggle (LO, \"Lutte ouvrière\") in France, publicly headed by Arlette Laguiller but revealed in the 1990s to be directed by Robert Barcia, has often been criticized as a cult, for example by Daniel Cohn-Bendit and his older brother Gabriel Cohn-Bendit, as well as \"L'Humanité\" and \"Libération\".\n\nIn his book \"Les Sectes Politiques: 1965–1995\" (translation: \"Political cults: 1965–1995\"), French writer Cyril Le Tallec considered some religious groups as cults involved in politics, including the League for Catholic Counter-Reformation, the Cultural Office of Cluny, New Acropolis, Sōka Gakkai, the Divine Light Mission, Tradition Family Property (TFP), Longo-Mai, the Supermen Club and the Association for Promotion of the Industrial Arts (Solazaref).\n\nIn 1990 Lucy Patrick commented: \"Although we live in a democracy, cult behavior manifests itself in our unwillingness to question the judgment of our leaders, our tendency to devalue outsiders and to avoid dissent. We can overcome cult behavior, he says, by recognizing that we have dependency needs that are inappropriate for mature people, by increasing anti-authoritarian education, and by encouraging personal autonomy and the free exchange of ideas.\"\n\nCults that teach and practice polygamy, marriage between more than two people, most often polygyny, one man having multiple wives, have long been noted, although they are a minority. It has been estimated that there are around 50,000 members of polygamist cults in North America. Often, polygamist cults are viewed negatively by both legal authorities and society, and this view sometimes includes negative perceptions of related mainstream denominations, because of their perceived links to possible domestic violence and child abuse.\n\nIn 1890, the president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, Wilford Woodruff, issued a public declaration (the Manifesto) announcing that the LDS Church had ceased performing new plural marriages. Anti-Mormon sentiment waned, as did opposition to statehood for Utah. The Smoot Hearings in 1904, which documented that the LDS Church was still practicing polygamy spurred the church to issue a Second Manifesto again claiming that it had ceased performing new plural marriages. By 1910 the LDS Church excommunicated those who entered into or performed new plural marriages. Enforcement of the 1890 Manifesto caused various splinter groups to leave the LDS Church in order to continue the practice of plural marriage. The Church of Jesus Christ Restored is a small sect within the Latter Day Saint movement based in Chatsworth, Ontario, Canada. It has been labeled a polygamous cult by the news media and has been the subject of criminal investigation by local authorities.\n\nSociologist and historian Orlando Patterson has described the Ku Klux Klan, which arose in the American South after the Civil War, as a heretical Christian cult, and he has described its persecution of African Americans and others as a form of human sacrifice. Secret Aryan cults in Germany and Austria in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries had a strong influence on the rise of Nazism. Modern Skinhead groups in the United States tend to use the same recruitment techniques as destructive cults.\n\nPeter Staudenmeier, professor of modern German history at Marquette University describes Rudolf Steiner's Anthroposophy between occultism and fascism. He analyses in detail the racist foundation of this movement. \n\nIn the book \"Jihad and Sacred Vengeance: Psychological Undercurrents of History\", psychiatrist Peter A. Olsson compares Osama bin Laden to certain cult leaders including Jim Jones, David Koresh, Shoko Asahara, Marshall Applewhite, Luc Jouret and Joseph Di Mambro, and he says that each of these individuals fit at least eight of the nine criteria for people with narcissistic personality disorders. In the book \"Seeking the Compassionate Life: The Moral Crisis for Psychotherapy and Society\" authors Goldberg and Crespo also refer to Osama bin Laden as a \"destructive cult leader\".\n\nAt a 2002 meeting of the American Psychological Association (APA), anti-cultist Steven Hassan said that Al-Qaida fulfills the characteristics of a destructive cult. He added: \"We need to apply what we know about destructive mind-control cults, and this should be a priority with the war on terrorism. We need to understand the psychological aspects of how people are recruited and indoctrinated so we can slow down recruitment. We need to help counsel former cult members and possibly use some of them in the war against terrorism.\"\n\nIn an article on Al-Qaida published in \"The Times\", journalist Mary Ann Sieghart wrote that al-Qaida resembles a \"classic cult\", commenting: \"Al-Qaida fits all the official definitions of a cult. It indoctrinates its members; it forms a closed, totalitarian society; it has a self-appointed, messianic and charismatic leader; and it believes that the ends justify the means.\"\n\nThe Shining Path guerrilla movement active in Peru in the 1980s and 1990s has variously been described as a \"cult\" and as an intense \"cult of personality\". The Tamil Tigers have also been qualified as such by French magazine L'Express' \n\nThe People's Mujahedin of Iran, a leftist guerrilla movement based in Iraq, has controversially been described as a political cult and as a movement that is abusive towards its own members. Former Mujaheddin member and now author and academic Dr. Masoud Banisadr stated in a May 2005 speech in Spain: \"If you ask me: are all cults a terrorist organisation? My answer is no, as there are many peaceful cults at present around the world and in the history of mankind. But if you ask me are all terrorist organisations some sort of cult, my answer is yes. Even if they start as [an] ordinary modern political party or organisation, to prepare and force their members to act without asking any moral questions and act selflessly for the cause of the group and ignore all the ethical, cultural, moral or religious codes of the society and humanity, those organisations have to change into a cult. Therefore to understand an extremist or a terrorist organisation one has to learn about a cult.\" In 2003, the group ordered some of its members to set themselves on fire, two of whom died.\n\nThe application of the labels \"cult\" or \"sect\" to religious movements in government documents signifies the popular and negative use of the term \"cult\" in English and a functionally similar use of words translated as \"sect\" in several European languages. Sociologists critical to this negative politicized use of the word \"cult\" argue that it may adversely impact the religious freedoms of group members. At the height of the counter-cult movement and ritual abuse scare of the 1990s, some governments published lists of cults. While these documents utilize similar terminology they do not necessarily include the same groups nor is their assessment of these groups based on agreed criteria. Other governments and world bodies also report on new religious movements but do not use these terms to describe the groups. Since the 2000s, some governments have again distanced themselves from such classifications of religious movements. While the official response to new religious groups has been mixed across the globe, some governments aligned more with the critics of these groups to the extent of distinguishing between \"legitimate\" religion and \"dangerous\", \"unwanted\" cults in public policy.\n\nFor centuries, governments in China have categorized certain religions as \"xiejiao\" () – sometimes translated as \"evil cult\" or as \"heterodox teaching\". In imperial China, the classification of a religion as \"xiejiao\" did not necessarily mean that a religion’s teachings were believed to be false or inauthentic, but rather, the label was applied to religious groups that were not authorized by the state, or that were seen as challenging the legitimacy of the state. In modern China, the term \"xiejiao\" continues to be used to denote teachings that the government disapproves of, and these groups face suppression and punishment by authorities. Fourteen different groups in China have been listed by the ministry of public security as \"xiejiao\". In addition, in 1999, Chinese authorities denounced the Falun Gong spiritual practice as a heretical teaching, and they launched a campaign to eliminate it. According to Amnesty International, the persecution of Falun Gong includes a multifaceted propaganda campaign, a program of enforced ideological conversion and re-education, as well as a variety of extralegal coercive measures, such as arbitrary arrests, forced labour, and physical torture, sometimes resulting in death.\n\nIn 2008 the Russian Interior Ministry prepared a list of \"extremist groups.\" At the top of the list were Islamic groups outside of \"traditional Islam,\" which is supervised by the Russian government. Next listed were \"Pagan cults\". In 2009 the Russian Ministry of Justice created a council which it named \"Council of Experts Conducting State Religious Studies Expert Analysis.\" The new council listed 80 large sects which it considered potentially dangerous to Russian society, and mentioned that there were thousands of smaller ones. Large sects listed included: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Jehovah's Witnesses, and what were called \"neo-Pentecostals.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, the scientific status of the \"brainwashing theory\" became a central topic in U.S. court cases where the theory was used to try to justify the use of the forceful deprogramming of cult members. Meanwhile, sociologists critical of these theories assisted advocates of religious freedom in defending the legitimacy of new religious movements in court. In the United States religious activities of cults are protected under the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, which prohibits governmental establishment of religion and protects freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and freedom of assembly. However, no religious or cult members are granted any special immunity from criminal charges.\n\nFrance and Belgium have taken policy positions which accept \"brainwashing\" theories uncritically, while other European nations, like Sweden and Italy, are cautious about brainwashing and have adopted more neutral responses to new religions. Scholars have suggested that outrage following the mass murder/suicides perpetuated by the Solar Temple as well as the more latent xenophobic and anti-American attitudes have contributed significantly to European anti-cult positions. In the 1980s clergymen and officials of the French government expressed concern that some orders and other groups within the Roman Catholic Church would be adversely affected by anti-cult laws then being considered.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25514914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25514914", "title": "Day of the Geese", "text": "Day of the Geese\n\nThe Day of the Geese, also known as Antzar Eguna, is a competition held as part of the San Antolín festival in the Basque fishing-town of Lekeitio, in which participants attempt to decapitate a goose suspended on a rope above the town harbor.\n\nAs their boats pass underneath, young men attempt to jump off and grab the goose (which has been coated in grease) and remove its head. To add to the challenge, spectators on either side of the harbor pull the rope taut and then let it fall slack, dunking the participant in the bay. This is repeated until either the young man has been shaken loose - in which case the next participant takes his place - or he has successfully removed the head of the goose. Any dispute as to who has won is resolved by a rowing race around San Nicolas Island in the middle of Lekeitio Bay. As a prize, the winner of the competition gets to keep the goose.\n\nThe Basque Country, or Euskal Herria, consists of seven regions straddling the border between Spain and France on the coast of the Bay of Biscay near the Western end of the Pyrenees mountains. Lekeitio is located in the province of Vizcaya or Bizkaia. The Basque population is currently around three million. They are considered to be Europe’s oldest culture, having record of inhabiting their current region in 77 B.C. Some believe that due to physical differences between Basques and other Europeans, such as unique cranial differences, that Basques are direct descendants of the Stone Age inhabitants of the Pyreneese Mountains. The extended history and unique culture of this people has been well preserved in modern times. While the rest of Spain no longer holds this competition as a part of the San Antolin festival, the Basques have kept this tradition alive, except for the geese, which nowadays are dead before being used in the festival.\n\nAt this festival and others many games and contests are held which reveal the competitive spirit of the Basques. Traditional athletic competitions and games reflect the demanding physical tasks of everyday life for early Basques. For example, wood chopping and stone-lifting competitions derived from such tasks as chopping firewood and mining. These tasks and athletic contests require strength and endurance, hence the value placed on these attributes in Basque society, and hence the obvious focus on strength and endurance in the Day of the Geese competition. The tradition is said to come from when fishermen from the port caught the animals while out at sea and competed amongst each other to take them home.\n\nCatholicism, brought to the Basques by Christian missionaries, replaced early pagan beliefs in the 4th and 5th Centuries. Most of the festivals and banquets are held in celebration of a particular Saint in the Catholic Church. The Antzar Eguna used to be held during the Andra Mari or San Roque festival until 1877. The event also used to be held in the village square using horses in place of boats until 1722 when they started doing it in the harbor. This festival is known to have been celebrated for the past 350 years from 1 September through the 8th.\n\nIn contrast to other traditional European societies which very much functioned on a patriarchal system, early Basques functioned on a more matriarchal system. Women could own property and hold leadership positions and were even \"head of the lineage\" in their families. There was much more equality between the sexes than most anywhere else at that time. However, most of the strenuous physical labor was the responsibility of the males. This explains why males are the sole competitors in the Antzar Eguna. This competition was also a way for young men to prove their strength and eligibility to the young women of the town.\n\nUnlike many European societies, most of the land belonged to farmers and not to the Church or King. Therefore, the traditional Basque occupations were agricultural, such as farming and sheepherding. Dependence on the weather for successful turnouts in their crops resulted in a pagan belief system centered on the weather and other elements of nature, such as animals. The main goddess Mari and her consort Sugaar, were believed to often take on the forms of various animals. With the introduction of Christianity these beliefs faded, but animals still have cultural significance and symbolism.\n\nAnimal rights advocates object to the many Spanish traditions that involve the death of an animal as a form of amusement. While most often targeting bullfighting, Antzar Eguna has been attacked as well and as a result dead geese are now used in place of live ones. It is particularly offensive to some due to the mutilation of the goose involved. While holding the event with a dead goose protects the animal from prolonged suffering, the practice is still controversial. Those in favor of allowing the practice to continue argue that it is a part of Basque culture. Those opposed to the practice feel humaneness should take precedence over tradition.\n\n"}
{"id": "10436741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10436741", "title": "Dera Sacha Sauda", "text": "Dera Sacha Sauda\n\nDera Sacha Sauda (\"Camp True-Deal\"; colloquially DSS) is an Indian religious group and \"non-profit social welfare\" organisation (dera) that was established on 29 April 1948 by Mastana Balochistani, an ascetic follower of Baba Sawan Singh (the second Satguru of Radha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB)), as a centre for religious learning. After Baba Sawan Singh, the movement split into four groups, one of them led by Mastana Balochistani. After the death of Mastana Balochistani, his movement was split into 3 groups, with Satnam Singh leading the Sirsa group, who selected Gurmeet Ram Rahim to be his successor. Dera Sacha Sauda's main centre is situated in the city of Sirsa in Haryana state, northern India. The organisation has 46 ashrams (divisions) across India and other countries.\n\nUnder the leadership of Mastana Balochistani, 25 Ashrams were established in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, where Naam method of Meditation was taught to the followers who accepted three principles for the rest of their life: No consumption of meat, egg or gelatin, no consumption of alcohol, drugs, tobacco etc. and no adultery or illicit sex. He also laid the foundation of the main ashram in 1948 and coined the expression \"Dhan Dhan Satguru Tera Hi Asra\" (Blessed are you the true guru, you are my shelter) widely used by the Dera. Shah Satnam Singh Ji lead the Dera from 1963 to 1990. He was succeeded by controversial Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singhin 1990, who added more than dozen ashrams and made Dera much more visible organization.\n\nThe current leader, Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who himself claims to have more than 60 million followers worldwide, is a controversial figure in India and was accused of murder and convicted of rape. On 25 August 2017, a special CBI court in the city of Panchkula, Haryana, found him guilty of raping two Dera sadhvis (female followers). Subsequently, the special CBI court sentenced Singh for a period of 20-year jail term on 28 August 2017.\n\nDera Sacha Sauda was established in 1948 at Sirsa by Mastana Balochistani. He was born in Kalat, Balochistan in undivided India, now in Pakistan in 1891. He was popularly known among his devotees as His Holiness Beparawah Mastana Ji Maharaj. He died on 18 April 1960. Shah Satnam Singh, born on 25 January 1919 took over the spiritual leadership position from Balochistani at the age of 41 and served until 1990. He died on 13 December 1991. Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh became the third master of DSS on 23 September 1990.\nDSS is a registered NGO.\n\nIn May 2007, violent clashes broke out between the Khalsa Sikhs and the followers of the Dera Sacha Sauda over the Dera leader Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh's appearance in a newspaper advertisement. The orthodox Sikhs alleged that he had impersonated their Guru Gobind Singh, thus insulting their faith. At least one person died in these clashes; several more were injured. The news media described the violence as the most serious since the Sikh–Nirankari clashes of the 1970s and the separatist insurgency of the 1980s.\n\nThe Akal Takht of the Sikhs demanded closure of all the Deras in Punjab, and asked its followers to organise protest marches and \"bandh\"s. Ultimately, Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh issued an namesake apology. However, this apology was rejected by the Akal Takht. The marches and boycotts against the Dera continued, until the situation subsided after several weeks.\n\nIts leader, Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, was accused of murder and convicted of rape by an Indian court. On 25 August 2017, a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Panchkula, Haryana, found him guilty of sexually assaulting two Dera sadhvis (female followers), one of whom had written to the then prime minister of India Atal Bihari Vajpayee about it in 2002.\n\nMore than 150,000 followers of DSS had gathered at Panchkula, where the hearing was taking place, and a few other places. Upon learning of the court's verdict, they were involved in a mass riot which led to the death of at least 30 people and left more than 250 people seriously injured.\n\nThe Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered all of DSS's properties to be attached to pay for the losses incurred due to the violence. A few incidents were reported in the Indian capital, New Delhi, which is just away from the epicenter.\n\nThe incident led to widespread criticism of the ruling government, in that, despite the high court's repeated warnings, it failed to gauge the severity of the situation, and failed to enforce Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The latter prohibits an assembly of any more than four people, and was in effect at the time of the verdict.\n\nAllegedly 400 followers of the sect have been castrated inside the sect’s headquarters to \"bring them closer to god\". One of the castrated men came forward and filed a complaint in court against the guru. According to India's Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the sect defended castrations as done to \"safeguard female followers from possible sexual advances\".\n\nOn September 4, 2017, after receiving a 2-day notice from police to surrender weapons, DSS members turned in 67 firearms, almost half of which were licensed. Police confiscated 33 of the weapons.\n\nThe Dera's teachings emphasise the recitation of sacred words and the achievement of transcendence. The devotees are asked to practice alcohol abstinence, vegetarianism, marital fidelity, and truth. They are also asked to abstain from ritualism and from making monetary religious donations (see Funding).\n\nDuring the \"satsang\" gatherings, the Guru of the Dera sits beneath Hindu, Sikh, Muslim and Christian symbols organised in a way that depicts him as the union of these religions.\n\nAll the Dera Sacha Sauda Gurus have come from Sikh backgrounds, and the organisation has several Sikh adherents. However, the vast majority of its supporters are working-class and middle-class Hindus from the rural areas of Haryana and Rajasthan.\n\nIn 2009, the Dera Sacha Sauda claimed to have over a million devotees. It had 38 \"ashram\"s, most of them in northern India.\n\nThe word \"Dera\" is similar connotations to \"ashram\", while the word \"Sacha Sauda\" means \"true deal\" - a reference to the claim that the organisation does not accept monetary gifts from its devotees. The Dera Sacha Sauda claims to be autarkic: it owns extensive lands in Haryana and other states; and runs a supermarket, a petrol pump, a biscuit factory, a restaurant, and a boating lake. These businesses, managed by its \"sadhus,\" are said to be for the benefit of its devotees.\n\nDera Sacha Sauda is the only among the various \"Dera\"s, which openly asks its supporters to vote for particular political parties. The previous Congress government enjoyed the organisation's support and it reciprocated by providing a Z-plus security cover for the group's leader. Singh's son is married to the daughter of the Congress leader Harminder Singh Jassi. The DSS supported Congress in the 2007 Punjab state elections, and helped the party take control of the Malwa region. However, the Shiromani Akali Dal won the overall majority in the state, and allegedly persecuted the Dera supporters during the 2007 violence. When the Congress did not come out in the open support of DSS, the DSS decided not to endorse a single party in the 2009 parliamentary elections. Instead, it supported particular candidates from both Akali Dal and Congress.\n\nBefore the 2012 Punjab state elections, the Congress leader Amarinder Singh, his wife Preneet Kaur and his son Raninder Singh visited Singh, asking him to extend his support to Congress. However, Dera's support to Congress alienated the party's Sikh vote bank. In the 2012 elections, Congress performed poorly, and Jassi lost the election. The poor performance of Congress in Malwa in 2012 was seen as a signal of the downfall of Dera's political power.\n\nIn 2014 Haryana polls and Lok Sabha Polls, Bharatiya Janata Party requested support from Baba Gurmeet Ram Rahim. In February 2015, the organisation openly supported BJP in Delhi elections. The organisation supported BJP in the Bihar assembly election in 2015, and nearly 3000 Dera followers campaigned for BJP in the state.\n\nGurmeet Ram Rahim Singh formed a welfare and disaster relief organisation called Shah Satnam Ji Green-S Welfare Force, which now has more than 70,000 doctors, engineers, rescuers, paramedics, and tradesmen participating. The organisation has rendered aid during many of India's natural disasters like Kolkata fire and the factory collapse in Jalandhar.\nDuring the 2013 flash floods in Uttarakhand, a team of volunteers and doctors provided medical care to people, distributed food packets and conducted rescue missions. The area of Deoli-Brahmgram village which was called a 'village of widows' after the floods are still facing issues of hardship, the life of widows at a standstill.\n\nAnti-prostitution initiatives began in November 2009, when Singh called on his followers to counter prostitution, and to help sex-workers escape a \"life of perpetual slavery\". In December 2009, Dera and its volunteers took a step towards reducing sex trafficking in the country and also preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS virus, by giving consent for marriage with adult sex workers and to \"help them escape their dreary existence\". In January 2010, a mass marriage ceremony for former sex workers took place in Sirsa.\n\nDera Sacha Sauda's 400-bed multi-specialty hospital was inaugurated by Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in Sirsa in March 2014 and was named Shah Satnam ji Speciality Hospital.\n\nDera Sacha Sauda had launched a social welfare campaign and had filed a petition in the Supreme Court to grant legal status to transgender people. On 15 April 2014 the Apex Court gave a judgement in favour of the Eunuchs and ordered that the hijras and transgender people will now be given the legal status of the third gender.\n\nDSS also initiated a series of sanitation drives and as of 2016, about 30 Mega Cleanliness Campaigns have been conducted in several states of India and also in other countries.\n\nLike several other religious groups in India, the Dera Sacha Sauda has organised large-scale blood donation camps. In December 2003, a camp held on the death anniversary of its former guru attracted 15,432 donors. In October 2004, the Dera broke its own record during the mortuary ceremony of Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh's father. This time it attracted 17,921 donors, and collected 12,002,450 ml units of blood in a single day. This was recognised by the \"Guinness World Records\" as the largest ever amount of blood collected on a single day.\n\nThe official publication of Dera Sacha Sauda claims that the world record was created by \"sheer chance\", thus denying the suggestions that it was a show-off for media attention and the glorification of their guru. However, in 2003, the Dera had sent an e-mail to the \"Guinness Book\" compilers, seeking clarifications on the conditions that needed to be met to break the previous record. During the donation exercise, the Dera had meticulously collected proofs needed to qualify for the world record. After creating the record, several Dera devotees also stated that their aim was to create the record.\n\nDoctors have criticised the \"ostentatious\" mass blood donation camps organised by Dera Sacha Sauda as wasteful. According to the director of the Shiv Shakti blood bank in Sirsa, most of the blood collected in Dera's camps gets wasted. Moreover, the devotees don't respond to the blood bank's requests for blood donations at other times, when there is an actual need for blood donation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3517663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3517663", "title": "Dictionary of Hindu Lore and Legend", "text": "Dictionary of Hindu Lore and Legend\n\nThe Dictionary of Hindu Lore and Legend (2002) is a book written by Anna L. Dallapiccola, and contains information on over one thousand concepts, characters, and places of Hindu mythology and Hinduism, one of the major religions of the Indian subcontinent. The writer has remained associated with the university of Heidelberg, Germany as a Professor of Indian Art; with the University of Edinburgh, Great Britain as Honorary Professor; and with De Montfort University, Leicester as a Visiting Professor. She is a Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society.\n\nThe dictionary covers a variety of topics including myths and legends of Hinduism, temple architecture, Hindu festivals, Jyotisha and Ayurveda, as also contemporary thoughts pertaining to Hinduism. There are 243 illustrations in the book, facilitating the understanding of the issues involved. The contents of the book are arranged in seven sections as noted below:\n\nThe section is divided into twelve sub-sections, namely, the land; regional languages and literature; religions of India; the development of Hinduism; sacred literature; pilgrimage; Hindu myths; mythology and art; social structure; and Hinduism abroad. The last sub-section named note on fonts and pronunciation, serves as reference points for the readers.\n\nThe introduction section also contains two maps of the Indian subcontinent, almost similar in geographical layout of undivided India. The first map indicates archeological sites; and the current national and state capitals, including and major towns. The second map indicates places of pilgrimage, and mountains.\n\nThis section covers major events associated with India, Vedic mythology and Vedic civilization, and Hinduism, spanning a period of 5000 years. The chronology recounts the major events, beginning from 3000 BCE-1700 BCE (the period of the Indus Valley Civilization) until 2001 CE, when the celebration of Mahakumbha Mela took place in Allahabad, India, are briefly indicated in the section chronology.\n\nThis section contains references to several works and publication, and is further sub-divided into six sections, namely, art and iconography; material culture; Hinduisms, Buddhism, Jainism, and Sikhism; history and language; performing art; and primary sources in translation.\n"}
{"id": "1985366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985366", "title": "Djediufankh", "text": "Djediufankh\n\nDjediufankh was an ancient Egyptian priest who lived between 2,000 and 4,000 years ago.\n\nIn 2005, what are believed to be the remains of Djediufankh were found in a 26 cm–high canopic jar in the Royal Pump Room Museum, in Harrogate, England. Experts at York University have established that the residue in the jar is cholesterol from human remains. Their tests also confirmed that the Egyptians had sterilised the body and entrails using Date Palm wine as an antiseptic, confirming for the first time the descriptions given by classical authors such as the ancient Greek historian Herodotus.\n\nThe organs stored inside the jar had also been treated with an aromatic spice, most likely scented cinnamon or cassia, imported from southeast Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34250867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34250867", "title": "Edmund de Unger", "text": "Edmund de Unger\n\nEdmund Robert Anthony de Unger (, b 6 August 1918, Budapest - d 25 January 2011, Ham, Surrey) was a Hungarian-born property developer and art collector. In London he built up the Keir Collection, one of the greatest post-war collections of Islamic art, bequeathed in 2008 to the Pergamon Museum of Islamic Art in Berlin. The arrangement for the museum to curate the collection came to an end in July 2012. The collection is now hosted by the Dallas Museum of Art as of May 2014 for a 15-year renewable loan.\n\nEdmund de Unger was born in Budapest into a family linked with the art world. His father was a private collector of carpets and another relative was the architect who designed the Hungarian National Museum. After going to London in 1934 to learn English, he studied economics at Kiel Institute for the World Economy, law at the University of Budapest and history at Hertford College, Oxford. Returning to Hungary before the outbreak of World War II, in 1945 he married Eva Spicht, one of 22 Jewish refugees whom he had taken in during the Battle of Budapest. After the war he restored and ran the Astoria Hotel in Budapest, until it was requisitioned by the communist regime in 1948.\n\nIn 1949 de Unger, following a series of arrests in Hungary, moved permanently to England, working first as a manservant. After further training, he entered the legal profession as a barrister. He later worked as Crown Counsel in Ghana for the Colonial Office. The period in West Africa permitted visits to Egypt, where he developed an interest in Coptic and Islamic art. On returning to England, de Unger became a property developer, which provided him with the means to build up his post-war art collection, which he named the \"Keir Collection\", after one of his first homes \"The Keir\" on Wimbledon Common in London. In 1965, following the death of his first wife Eva in 1959, he married Elizabeth Allen, with whom he had two sons, Richard and Glen.\n\nThe ever-increasing Keir Collection was moved in the late 1960s to his house in Ham, Surrey. The collection, which started in his youth with carpets, gradually grew to include ceramics, in particular rare items of lustreware from Mesopotamia, Persian and Moghul miniatures, medieval and Renaissance enamels, sculptures, and textiles from Italy and France (including the medieval enamels collection of Ernst and Martha Kofler-Truniger). Widely knowledgeable on the area in which he collected, de Unger founded the \"Islamic Art Circle\" in 1964 and lectured frequently on his expertise all over the world.\n\n\"My love of Islamic art began with carpets. I first became aware of them at the age of six, when my father Richard told me not to walk on them. [...] My father was a rather solitary person and, seeing my interest, he must have been pleased. He took me to museums, and by the age of nine I was quite a good companion to him in the salesrooms. [...] After the war and my departure from my homeland I was once again able to continue the collecting of what my fellow Oxford undergraduates had called \"moth-eaten rags\". Slowly, not only the floors but also the walls of my home became covered with new acquisitions.\" \n\nThe majority of carpets that form the core of the Keir Collection remain in the 18th century Manor House on Ham Street in Richmond, London, which was de Unger's home up to his death in 2011. A small but representative portion of classical oriental carpets from Persia, Turkey and Mughal India are on display in the Pergamon Museum of Islamic Art.\n\nHis passion for collecting carpets soon led de Unger to diversify into fine textiles, starting in 1961 with the acquisition of Persian embroidery in Paris. He started collecting decorative silk, velvet and brocade fabrics, with elaborate designs resembling those in the carpets. There provenance included the Persian, Ottoman and Mughal empires, with Safavid silks forming the nucleus of his collection. It incorporates parts of the older textile collections of Joseph V. McMullan and Hagop Kevorkian. With Werner Abegg as mentor de Unger moved on to mediaeval and Renaissance woven cloth from Europe, particularly Italy and Spain, and in number these items dominate the collection.\n\"The end came when I observed every carpet on the floor was covered by at least two other layers. I realized it could not go on. It was at that moment that I had my first encounter with Islamic ceramics. Just like their woven counterparts these have the same combination of warmth of colour, delicacy and boldness of design. Above all, I admire the lustre ware which to my mind is the greatest gift the Islamic potter has made to mankind.\"\n\nDe Unger's extensive collection of Islamic ceramics contains important examples from the mediaeval period, from the 8th to the 13th century. Some of the most prized items are of gold lustreware, a technique that originated and was perfected in Iraq. These skills were passed on to artisans in Fatimid Egypt and Kashan in Persia. The Persian lustreware tiles provide examples of figurative representations in Islamic art prior to the Mongol period.\n\nRock crystal artefacts flourished during the Fatimid period in Egypt (969-1171). Because of the difficulty of working with the very hard medium, only the caliph and his immediate court could afford these \"objets d'art\", which varied in size from small animal forms to large vessels. In 1068, however, the large collection of treasures in the Caliph's palace in \"al-Qahira\" (now part of modern-day Cairo) was dispersed throughout the medieval world as the result of a revolt by the unpaid army. Very few items from the reportedly large collection survive. Several of these rare sculpted rock crystals came to form parts of reliquaries in Medieval church treasuries, in mountings made for gold and precious stones. De Unger acquired several rock crystal pieces from this period for his collection including a fine vessel decorated with palmettes, set in an elaborate gold casing with handles formed of foliage and winged dragons. Other smaller items in the collection include several bottles, possibly intended for dispensing scent, and a bead in the form of a crouching hare, possibly intended as a charm.\n\nIn October 2008 an 11th-century Fatimid rock crystal ewer was acquired for the Keir Collection at a public auction in Christie's by de Unger's son, Richard, for over £3 million. Set in a medieval Italian gold and enamel mount, the ewer had earlier in the year been offered for auction in Somerset as a nineteenth-century French claret decanter with an estimated price of between £100 and £200. Islamic art experts present at the auction recognized the rarity of the artifact, which sold for just over £200,000. Subsequently the owner withdrew the object from sale, placing it for auction at Christie's, who gave an evaluation with a starting price of £3 million, expecting a higher price, despite the financial crisis at the time. When de Unger requested an export order so that the ewer could go on display in Berlin, the UK government sought its own evaluation from Sotheby's, who returned a figure of £20 million, beyond the means of any public British art collection. With a change of government, Sotheby's figure was accepted and the ewer, one of only a very small number of surviving rock glass vessels of this type, is now on display in the Pergamon Museum of Islamic Art.\n\n\"As a child, one of my favourite books was the \"Arabian Nights\", and its colourful descriptions and rich imaginative quality must have left a mark on me. The first Oriental miniature I consciously looked at was at the Musée d'Arts décoratifs in Paris [...] It was this painting that prompted me to buy my first book on Persian miniatures.\"\n\nAs stated at the start of his evaluation of de Unger's extensive collection of Islamic illuminated manuscripts, \"A series of magnificent exhibitions of Islamic manuscript art and calligraphy has recently shown splendid masterpieces from several regions of the Orient and revealed the stereotype of Islam's hostility towards illustration and the \"substitute art\" of calligraphy as nothing more than absurd.\" The collection of de Unger, although containing many examples of medieval calligraphy, particularly Korans, has an even larger number of illuminated figurative manuscripts.\n\nThe calligraphic manuscripts in the Keir Collection were produced by some of the most accomplished artists of the period from across the entire Islamic world. With intricate designs in luxurious gold and blue or polychrome, these date from the twelfth to the fifteenth century and originate from Syria, Spain, North Africa (particularly Mamluk Egypt), Iraq, Iran and India.\n\nThe miniature paintings on detached folios, which form the bulk of de Unger's collection, contain illustrations of Persian epic poems, including the celebrated Shahnameh, the \"Book of Kings\", of Firdausi and the \"Khamsa\" of Nizami. The figurative illuminated manuscripts cover the period from the early 14th century to the early 17th century and again range across the whole Islamic world, from Turkey to Mughal India.\n\nIn addition to folios from illuminated manuscripts, de Unger collected examples of Islamic bookbinding, one of the most highly developed skills in the Islamic world. His collection includes Persian leather bindings, some polychromatic, embossed with highly ornamental designs in gold. There are also examples of bookbindings with flap, some with elaborate miniature lacquerwork painting either on leather or on a papier-mâché base.\n\n\"I believe that no collection of Islamic art can be complete without metalwork [...] It tells us a great deal about the art of Islam, the inscriptions found on the metalware contributing significantly to the history of the subject. I recognize in Islamic metalwork that intrinsic quality which is the result of first-class workmanship.\"\n\nThe creation of finely wrought metalware, in gold, silver and copper alloys, was from the outset one of the most highly developed skills in Islamic art. The artefacts were produced for the whole range of society from the courtly elete to the merchant class. The Keir Collection reflects this diversity. Amongst the most precious objects are enamel and gold jewelry and engraved silverware; other household objects include engraved bronze ewers, jugs, perfume bottles, aquamaniles, incense burners and candlesticks from all over the Islamic world, from the 8th to the 16th century.\n\nThe collection of medieval and Renaissance enamels of Ernst and Martha Kofler-Truninger was purchased by de Unger in two parts in 1970 and 1971. It remained in the Keir Collection until 1997, when the bulk of the collection was auctioned at Sotheby's with a pre-sale estimate of $25 million that was not realised, with some items remaining unsold or withdrawn.\n\n"}
{"id": "17452206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17452206", "title": "Esoteric Tarot", "text": "Esoteric Tarot\n\nEsoteric Tarot is the art of reading Tarot cards, which is the practice of using cards to gain insight into the past, present or future by formulating a question, then drawing and interpreting cards. Reading Tarot cards is a type of cartomancy. \n\nOne of the earliest reference to Tarot triumphs, and probably the first reference to Tarot as the devil's picture book, is given by a Dominican preacher in a fiery sermon against the evils of the devil's instrument. References to the Tarot as a social plague continue throughout the 16th and 17th centuries, but there are no indications that the cards were used for anything but games anywhere other than in Bologna. As Dummett (1980: 96) notes, \"...it was only in the 1780s, when the practice of fortune-telling with regular playing cards had been well established for at least two decades, that anyone began to use the Tarot pack for cartomancy.\" \n\nThe belief in the divinatory meaning of the cards is closely associated with a belief in their occult properties: a commonly held belief in the 18th century propagated by prominent Protestant clerics and freemasons. One of them was Court de Gébelin (see below). \n\nFrom its humble uptake as an instrument of prophecy in France, the Tarot went on to become a thing of hermeneutic, magical, mystical, semiotic, and even psychological properties. It was used by Romani people when telling fortunes, as a Jungian psychological apparatus capable of tapping into \"absolute knowledge in the unconscious\", a tool for archetypal analysis, and even a tool for facilitating the Jungian process of Individuation.\n\nMany involved in occult and divinatory practices attempt to trace the Tarot to ancient Egypt, divine hermetic wisdom, and the mysteries of Isis. \n\nPossibly the first of those was Antoine Court de Gébelin, a French clergyman, who wrote that after seeing a group of women playing cards he had the idea that Tarot was not merely a game of cards but was in fact of ancient Egyptian origin, of mystical cabbalistic import, and of deep divine significance. De Gébelin published a dissertation on the origins of the symbolism in the Tarot in volume VIII of work \"Le Monde primitif\" in 1781. He thought the Tarot represented ancient Egyptian Theology, including Isis, Osiris and Typhon. For example, he thought the card he knew as the Papesse and known today as the High Priestess represented Isis. He also related four Tarot cards to the four Christian Cardinal virtues: Temperance, Justice, Strength and Prudence. He relates The Tower to a Greek fable about avarice. \n\nAlthough the ancient Egyptian language had not yet been deciphered, de Gébelin asserted the name \"Tarot\" came from the Egyptian words \"Tar\", \"path\" or \"road\", and the word \"Ro\", \"Ros\" or \"Rog\", meaning \"King\" or \"royal\", and that the Tarot literally translated to the Royal Road of Life. Later Egyptologists found nothing in the Egyptian language to support de Gébelin's etymologies. Despite this lack of any evidence, the belief that the tarot cards are linked to the Egyptian Book of Thoth continues to the present day. \n\nThe actual source of the occult Tarot can be traced to two articles in volume eight, one written by himself, and one written by M. le C. de M.***. The second has been noted to have been even more influential than de Gébelin's. The author takes de Gébelin's speculations even further, agreeing with him about the mystical origins of the Tarot in ancient Egypt, but making several additional, and influential, statements that continue to influence mass understanding of the occult tarot even to this day. He makes the first statement proposing that the Tarot is, in fact, The Book of Thoth, that it is associated with the Romani people (and that the Romani people were roaming Egyptians), and makes the first association of Tarot with cartomancy.\n\nThe first to assign divinatory meanings to the Tarot cards were cartomancer Jean-Baptiste Alliette (also known as Etteilla) in 1783 and Mlle Marie-Anne Adelaide Lenormand (1776-1843).\n\nAccording to Dummett, Etteilla:\n\n\nEtteilla also:\n\n\nMichael Dummett (1980) suggests that Etteilla was attempting to scoop Court de Gébelin as the author of the occult tarot. Etteilla in fact claimed to have been involved with Tarot longer than Court de Gébelin.\n\nMlle Marie-Anne Adelaide Lenormand outshone even Ettiella and was the first cartomancer to people in high places, being the personal confidant of Empress Josephine, Napoleon and other notables. Lenormand used both regular playing cards, in particular the Piquet pack, as well as cards derived from Etteilla's Egyptian root. She was so famous that a deck was published in her name, the \"Grand Jeu de Mlle Lenormand\", two years after her death in 1843.\n\nThe concept of the cards as a mystical key was extended by Éliphas Lévi (1810-1875). Lévi (whose given name was Alphonse-Louise Constance) was educated in the seminary of Saint-Sulpice, was ordained as a deacon, but never became a priest. Dummett (1980, p. 114) notes that it is from Lévi's book \"Dogme et rituel\" that the \"whole of the modern occultist movement stems.\" Lévi wrote that an astral light is contained within all of reality, and according to Dummett (1980, p. 118), he claimed to be the first to \n\nLévi rejected Court de Gébelin's claims about an Egyptian origin of the deck symbols, going back instead to the Tarot de Marseille, calling it \"The Book of Hermes\", claiming it was antique, that it existed before Moses, and that it was in fact a universal key of erudition, philosophy, and magic that could unlock Hermetic and Cabbalistic concepts. According to Lévi, \"An imprisoned person with no other book than the Tarot, if he knew how to use it, could in a few years acquire universal knowledge, and would be able to speak on all subjects with unequaled learning and inexhaustible eloquence.\"\n\nAccording to Dummett, Lévi's notable contributions include:\n\n\nOccultists, magicians, and magi all the way down to the 21st century have cited Lévi as a defining influence. This trend began immediately when Jean-Baptiste Pitois (1811), writing under the name Paul Christian, wrote \"L'Homme rouge\" (1863) and later \"Histoire de la magie, du monde surnaturel et de la fatalité à travers les temps et les peuples\" (1870). Christian repeats and extends the mythology of the tarot and changes the names for the trumps and the suits (see table below for a list of Christian's modifications to the trumps). Batons (wands) become Scepters, Swords become Blades, and Coins become Shekels. In 1888 Ély Star published \"Mystères de l'horoscope\" which mostly repeats Christian's modifications. Its primary contribution was the introduction of the terms 'Major arcana' and 'Minor arcana,' and the numbering of the Crocodile (the Fool) XXII instead of 0. \n\nIn 1887 the Marquis Stanislas de Guaita met the amateur artist Oswald Wirth (1860-1943) and subsequently sponsored a production of Lévi's intended deck. Guided entirely by de Guaita, Wirth designed the first neo-occultist cartomantic deck (and first cartomantic deck not derived from Ettielle's Egyptina deck). Known as the \"Arcanes du Tarot kabbalistique\" it consisted of only the twenty-two major arcana.\n\nTarot is often used in conjunction with the study of the Hermetic Qabalah. In these decks all the cards are illustrated in accordance with Qabalistic principles, most being influenced by the \"Rider-Waite\" deck. Its images were drawn by artist Pamela Colman Smith, to the instructions of Christian mystic and occultist Arthur Edward Waite and published in 1911.\nTarot is often used in conjunction with the study of the Hermetic Qabalah. A difference from Marseilles style decks is that Waite-Smith use scenes with esoteric meanings on the suit cards.\n\nTarot cards have become extremely popular in Japan, where hundreds of new decks have been designed in recent years. \n\nThe following is a comparison of the order of the Major Trumps up to and including the A. E. Waite deck. This table is based on Dummett (1980) and actual inspection of the relevant decks.\n\nNext to the usage of tarot cards to divine for others, usually for recompense, tarot is also used widely as a device for personal advice and spiritual growth. Practitioners believe the simple-looking Tarot card layouts can greatly help you explore all the depths and nodes of your spiritual path and discover a whole new realm of possibilities for enrichment in regard to the inner self; whereas, professional tarot is often seen as charlatanism. \n\nPeople who use the tarot for personal divination ask questions ranging widely from health or economical issues to what they believe would be best for them spiritually. Due to this, the way practitioners use the cards are taken to respond to such personal inquiries, is subject to various personal beliefs. For example: some tarot users may believe that the cards are the ones providing the answers, while some may believe that it is a supernatural force, or perhaps energy, that is guiding the cards.\n\nSome claim that they may also be a useful tool for psychology, often attributing this to Carl Jung. In his collected words Jung refers to tarot: \"It also seems as if the set of pictures in the Tarot cards were distantly descended from the archetypes of transformation, a view that has been confirmed for me in a very enlightening lecture by Professor Bernoulli.\". In 1933, Jung spoke about the Tarot during a seminar on active imagination, \"The original cards of the Tarot consist of the ordinary cards, the king, the queen, the knight, the ace, etc., only the figures are somewhat different, and besides, there are twenty-one cards upon which are symbols, or pictures of symbolical situations. For example, the symbol of the sun, or the symbol of the man hung up by the feet, or the tower struck by lightning, or the wheel of fortune, and so on. Those are sort of archetypal ideas, of a differentiated nature, which mingle with the ordinary constituents of the flow of the unconscious, and therefore it is applicable for an intuitive method that has the purpose of understanding the flow of life, possibly even predicting future events, at all events lending itself to the reading of the conditions of the present moment.\"\n\nQuoting the skeptic James Randi, \"For use as a divinatory device, the Tarot deck is dealt out in various patterns and interpreted by a gifted 'reader.' The fact that the deck is not dealt out into the same pattern fifteen minutes later is rationalized by the occultists by claiming that in that short span of time, a person's fortune can change, too. That would seem to call for rather frequent readings if the system is to be of any use whatsoever.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3803721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3803721", "title": "Fred Fehl", "text": "Fred Fehl\n\nFred Fehl (January 21, 1906 – October 5, 1995) was an American photographer of Viennese birth and upbringing. He was the cousin of the art historian Philipp Fehl and the inventor and Electrical Engineer Paul Eisler.\n\nFehl escaped from Vienna in 1939 with the assistance of the company he worked for, went to briefly to London, and then to New York City. The first person in America to make a career of performance photography, for over forty years he covered Broadway as well as dance, opera, and music. He was the permanent photographer of the American Ballet Theatre, the New York City Opera, and the New York City Ballet. His pictures have appeared in the \"New York Times\", major national magazines, and in hundreds of books on theater, dance, and music.\n\nFehl took photographs of over 1,000 Broadway plays. Included are photographs of Shirley Booth, José Ferrer, Judith Anderson, Maurice Evans, Lilli Palmer, Melvyn Douglas, Louis Calhern, Celeste Holm, Helen Hayes, Henry Fonda, Claude Rains, Beatrice Lillie, Rex Harrison, Ethel Merman, Charles Boyer, John Garfield, Ezio Pinza, Mary Martin, Arlene Francis, Eddie Cantor, Gwen Verdon, and Marlon Brando.\n\nIn addition to the American Ballet Theater and the New York City Ballet, Fred Fehl photographed the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, the Joffrey Company, Martha Graham, and the Alvin Ailey Company.\n\nHis numerous dance photographs include Martha Graham, Vera Zorina, André Eglevsky, Rudolf Nureyev, Mikhail Baryshnikov, Suzanne Farrell, Peter Martins, Heather Watts, Darci Kistler, Barbara Fisher, Kyra Nichols, Alicia Markova, Erik Bruhn, Carla Fracci, Natalia Makarova, Judith Jamison, Violette Verdy, Allegra Kent, Patricia McBride, José Limón, Dame Margot Fonteyn, Agnes de Mille, Anton Dolin, Alexandra Danilova, Maria Tallchief, Lupe Serrano, Tanaquil LeClercq, Jillana, Diana Adams, Rosella Hightower, Gelsey Kirkland, Cynthia Gregory, Karin von Aroldingen, Kay Mazzo, Fernando Bujones, Jacques d'Amboise, Edward Villella, Alicia Alonso, and many others.\n\nFehl's opera photographs include the New York City Opera, the San Carlo Opera, Alexander, Igor Kipnis, Margaret Severn, Roberta Peters, Norman Treigle, Judith Raskin, Dame Joan Sutherland, and Beverly Sills. \nHe photographed the New York Philharmonic Concerts at Lewisohn Stadium. His photographs of conductors and musicians includes Eugene Ormandy, Dmitri Mitropolous, John Browning, André Watts, Alesander Brailowsky, Eugene List, Lorin Maazel, Andre Kostelanez, Igor Markevitch, Lukas Foss, Bruno Walter, Arturo Toscanini, Julius Rudel, and Leopold Stokowski.\n\nThe Harry Ransom Center and the New York Public Library hold many Fred Fehl photographs and books.\n\n"}
{"id": "43676735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43676735", "title": "Ghisha Koenig", "text": "Ghisha Koenig\n\nGhisha Koenig (8 December 1921 - 15 October 1993) was a British sculptor whose work focused on the work place, especially factories as a hub of human activity.\n\nGhisha Koenig was born in London on 8 December 1921, the daughter of Leo Koenig (1898-1970), art critic and writer, and his wife, Fanny Hildebrand (fl. 1900-1940), formerly a Yiddish actress. In 1950, she married Dr. Emanuel (Manny) Tuckman, and they had one daughter, Sarah. She died on 15 October 1993.\n\nKoenig studied at the Hornsey School of Art, the Chelsea School of Art with Henry Moore, and the Slade School of Art. During World War II she was a member of the Auxiliary Territorial Service. Her first solo exhibition was at the Grosvenor Gallery in London in 1966. She also had a solo exhibition at the Serpentine Gallery in London in 1986. This exhibition included works created from 1968 to 1986 from three series, \"The Glassworks\", \"The Tentmakers\" and \"The Plate and Coil Shop\". Factories she visited or worked at included J & E Hall, Dartford (APV Products Ltd) which made escalators and salination systems, the Plate and Coil Shop, and the Fettling Shop. Many of her sculptures are done in bronze or terracotta bas-reliefs.\n\nHer work is in the permanent collection of the Tate Gallery, the Museum of Labour History in Manchester, Middleheim Museum in Belgium, the Graves Art Gallery in Sheffield, the City Art Gallery in Stoke-on Trent, Homerton College in Cambridge, and the City Art Gallery in Manchester. Public commissions include the Ministry of Work, 1950; Festival of Britain, 1951; St. John the Divine, 1961; Dalton House School, Sevenoaks, Kent 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "6794132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6794132", "title": "Glashtyn", "text": "Glashtyn\n\nGlashtyn (, glashan, glaistyn, glastyn; pronounced ) is a legendary creature from Manx folklore. The word \"glashtin\" is thought to derive from Celtic , meaning \"stream\", or sometimes even the sea.\n\nBy some accounts, the glashtin is a goblin that appears out of its aquatic habitat, to come in contact with the island folk; others equate it to the water horse known locally as \"cabyll-ushtey\".\n\nThe two conflicting accounts above can be reconciled by the trick of regarding the Manx glashtin as a shape-shifter. Recent literature embracing this notion claims that the equine glashtin assumes human form at times, but betrays his identity when he fails to conceal his ears, which are pointed like a horse's. One modern tale relates how a fisherman's daughter outwitted the glashtyn whom she recognized by his horse's ears, resisting his temptation of a strand of pearls dangled in front of her, and holding out till the red cockerel crowed to announce (prematurely) the break of dawn (). Here it is said that the glashtyn can transform whenever upon a dunghill.\n\nModern conceptions tend to portray the glashtin as \"a handsome, dark man with curly hair and flashing eyes,\" capable of alluring women with his attractive appearance.\n\nThe creature, known under the variant form Glashan, was known to have great curiosity for women and pester them in rather picaresque manner, and would grab hold and tear off pieces of women's attire.\n\nThe shapeshifter rationalization notwithstanding, early collectors of Manx folklore were only able to gather disparate, inconsistent accounts of the glashtin from different sources (exemplified below, under #Joseph Train, #Cabyll ushtey), some making him out to be like the Fenodyree or kindred spirits, while others insisted it was a water-horse. A similar dichotomy is applicable to the Scandinavian nykken.\n\nTrain's \"History\" of the island represents one of the early commentary on the glashtin. In one passage, he claims that the glashtin was a water-horse, and this sea-glashtin would emerge from his marine habitat, mingle with the local land-roving ponies and cross breed to produce foal. An earlier historian George Waldron records such behaviour for the water-bull (see #taroo ushtey below), but makes no endorsement for any water-horses doing the same.\n\nTrain also alleged that the renowned Hom Mooar (which signifies \"Big Tom\", a name of a fairy fiddler, as explained by \"A Vocabulary of the Anglo-Manx Dialect\"), was a glashtin. He goes on to supply as an example a tale taken from Waldron, describing a man was lured by invisible musicians to a strange banquet, and obtained the silver cup that came to be used for the \"consecrated Wine in Kirk-Merlugh (Malew Church), even though Waldron never refers to the enchanted musicians as glashtin or \"Big Tom\".\n\nTrain claimed he used as his source an \"MS Account of Manks Superstition\", which was a study on folklore he commissioned specifically for his work from an island native.\n\ntarroo-ushtey (; Mx. for \"water bull\").\n\nThe 18th century Manx local historian George Waldron records the superstition about the Water-Bull, an \"amphibious creature\" with every semblance of a natural bull, but a cow mating with it calves only a misshapen \"lump of flesh and skin without bones\" and often dies giving birth. He also tells that a neighbor detected a stray bull in his herd, and suspecting it to be a Water-Bull, rounded up a group of men with pitchforks to give it chase, but the beast dove into a river and eluded them, bobbing its head up in mockery. It was Train who later supplied the equivalent name in the Manx language (possibly from his native reporter).\n\ncabyll-ushtey (; Mx. for \"water horse\")\n\nManx folklorist and historian Arthur William Moore was also unable to avoid the dichotomy regarding the glashtin. In one instance, Moore represents the glashtin as \"a hairy goblin or sprite\". But in another instance, he says glashtin was another name for the \"Cabbyl-Ushtey\", the \"water-horse\".\n\nMoore says there was a sighting of the horse in 1859 at Ballure Glen, and after being spotted people from nearby Ramsey flocked to see, but no one caught sight of it. The glen beneath the Glen Meay Waterfall (near Peel; see Morrison's tale below) was haunted by the ghost of a man who unwittingly rode on the horseback of the glashtin or cabbyl-ushtey, and was drowned at sea. (Moore took both these stories Jenkinson's book published in 1874, whose source for the first sighting was a \"respectable farmer's wife from Ramsey\" who told Jenkinson about an occurrence reaching 15 years back)\n\nNevertheless, recent literature makes the cabyll-ushtey as being more benign than the Scottish Gaelic \"each-uisge\".\n\nScottish folklorist J. F. Campbell collected from a woman living on the Calf of Man the southern Manx lore concerning the glashan. She describes a being who assists as a farmhand, performing tasks of rounding up sheep from the fold, or thresh stalks of corn if left unbundled – qualities elsewhere ascribed to the fenodyree.\n\nOne intriguing anecdote is of a glashan who caught a girl by getting a tight griphold of her dress. But while he slept, she cut away the dress and escaped, making him cast away the cloth, uttering something in Manx unintelligible to Campbell. Roeder records a similar tale of a woman who loosened her apron-string to rid herself of the glashtin clung on her apron, and he spoke the words: 'Rumbyl, rumbyl, cha vel ayms agh yn sampyl' (The edge or skirt of the garment, I have but the sample.). Morrison's tale gives a bastard version of this in her \"The Buggane of the Glen Meay Waterfall\".\n\nIn closing, Rhys too reports that his \"informants\" were at odds, some of them regarding the \"glastyn\" as the Manx version of the brownie, while others were adamant it was \"a sort of grey colt, frequenting the banks of lakes at night\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3971725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3971725", "title": "Halba, Lebanon", "text": "Halba, Lebanon\n\nHalba () is the capital of Akkar Governorate in northern Lebanon, close to the border with Syria. It is located at around .\n\nThe population in Halba is divided between Sunni Muslims, Greek Orthodox Christians, and Maronites and followers of other religions. \n\nHalba is home to Sada Akkar Newspaper, the only privately owned news agency in Akkar District. Halba is also home to a Lebanese Red Cross First Aid Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "9518701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9518701", "title": "Hinduism in Sierra Leone", "text": "Hinduism in Sierra Leone\n\nHinduism in Sierra Leone is the religion of some South Asian expatriates.\n\nHindus in Sierra Leone are mainly traders.\n\nFreetown, the capital and principal city of Sierra Leone, has a large Hindu community, including a Hindu association and a priest.\n\nHindus are allowed cremation in Freetown.\n\nFollowing the exodus of expatriates in 1999 during the Sierra Leone civil war, the Indian community numbers dwindled to about 100, mostly businessmen of Sindhi origin.\n\nThere is a functioning Hindu temple in Freetown.\n"}
{"id": "2214556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2214556", "title": "History of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt (1928–38)", "text": "History of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt (1928–38)\n\nThe History of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt (1928–1938) discusses the History of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt from the Brotherhood's inception to its development into a viable political force.\n\nIn 1928, six Egyptian workers employed by British military camps in Isma'iliyya, in the Suez Canal Zone in Egypt, visited Hassan al-Banna, a young schoolteacher whom they had heard preach in mosques and coffee-houses on the need for an Islamic renewal. \"Arabs and Muslims have no status and no dignity,\" they said. \"They are no more than mere hirelings belonging to the foreigners... We are unable to perceive the road to action as you perceive it...\" They therefore asked him to become their leader; he accepted, founding the Society of the Muslim Brothers.\n\nBanna and his followers began by starting an evening school. In its first few years, the Society was focused on Islamic education, with an emphasis on teaching students how to implement an ethos of solidarity and altruism in their daily lives, rather than on theoretical issues. The General Inspector of Education was greatly impressed, particularly by the eloquent speeches of the working-class members of the Brotherhood. Banna's deputy was a carpenter, and the appointment of people from the lower classes to leading positions became a hallmark of the Brotherhood.\n\nThe Society's first major project was the construction of a mosque, completed in 1931, for which it managed to raise a large amount of money while carefully maintaining its independence from potentially self-interested donors. In the same year, the Society began to receive favourable attention in the press, and a Cairo branch was founded.\n\nIn 1932, Banna was transferred to Cairo at his request, and the organisation's headquarters were moved there. In addition to handling the administration of the Society, Banna gave evening lectures on the Qur'an for \"the poor of the district around the headquarters who were 'without learning and without the will for it'\".\n\nOver the next decade, the Society grew very rapidly. From three branches in 1931, it grew to have 300 across Egypt in 1938; thanks to an unorthodox ideology with mass appeal, and to effective strategies for attracting new members, it had become a major political opposition group with a highly diverse membership.\n\nThe Brotherhood initially resembled an ordinary Islamic welfare society. In the early 1930s, its welfare activities included small-scale social work among the poor, building and repairing mosques and establishing a number of Qur'an schools (whose role in teaching children to read and write was important in a country where 80% of the population was illiterate), setting up small workshops and factories, and organising the collection and distribution of \"zakat\" (the Islamic alms tax). As the Society grew, it increasingly founded benevolent institutions such as pharmacies, hospitals and clinics for the general public, and launched a program to teach adults to read and write by offering courses in coffee-shops and clubs.\n\nHowever, Banna's vision of a new sort of organisation, capable of renewing broken links between tradition and modernity, enabled the Brotherhood to gain a degree of popularity and influence that no welfare society enjoyed. He observed that, in the midst of a flourishing Egyptian civil society and a cultural environment marked by innovations in literature, science and education, religious education had been left behind: the ideas of Islamic religious reformers were not made accessible to the general public, and there was no serious effort to make the history and teachings of Islam comprehensible to the young. He was determined to fill this gap by training a cadre of young, highly motivated preachers equipped with modern teaching methods, independent from the government and the religious establishment, and supported by an effective use of the new mass media.\n\nThe Brotherhood's second General Conference, in 1933, authorised the creation of a publishing company and the purchase of a printing press, which was used to print several newspapers during the next decade. Funds were raised by creating a joint stock company in which only members were allowed to buy shares. This approach, which protected the Society's independence from government and from the wealthy by ensuring that its institutions were owned by its members, became its standard means of financing new projects.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Banna formulated, and the Society began to put into practice, an Islamic ideology that was unusual in several respects. It was, first of all, an ideology of disenfranchised classes. In a country where most political movements, including liberal and modernist ones, were products of the landed aristocracy and the urban elite, the Brotherhood became the voice of the educated middle and lower middle classes (and to a lesser extent of workers and peasants) and the means by which they demanded political participation. Throughout the decade, the Society placed increasing emphasis on social justice; closing the gap between the classes (and thus restoring the egalitarianism of the early Muslims) became one of its main objectives, and Banna voiced ever stronger criticisms of the upper class and the class system as a whole:\nIslam is equal for all people and prefers nobody to others on the grounds of differences in blood or race, forefathers or descent, poverty or wealth. According to Islam everyone is equal... However, in deeds and natural gifts, then the answer is yes. The learned is above the ignorant... Thus, we see that Islam does not approve of the class system.\nAs this ideology took shape over the next two decades, in the absence of a strong socialist party, the Brotherhood called for nationalisation of industries, substantial state intervention in the economy, a greatly reduced maximum wage for senior civil servants, laws to protect workers against exploitation, an Islamic banking system to provide interest-free loans, and generous social welfare programmes, including unemployment benefits, public housing and ambitious health and literacy programmes, funded by higher taxes on the wealthy. By 1948 the Brotherhood was advocating land reform to enable small farmers to own land.\n\nSecondly, Banna's ideology was an attempt to bringing about social renewal through a modern interpretation of Islam. In his view, Egypt was torn between two failed value systems: on the one hand, a doctrinaire religious traditionalism (represented by Al-Azhar University), which Banna saw as anachronistic and irrelevant to the urgent problems faced by ordinary people, and on the other hand, an abandonment of all moral values and an economic free-for-all that impoverished the masses and enabled foreign interests to take control of the economy. He argued that Islam should not be confined to the narrow domain of private life, but should rather be applied to the problems of the modern world, and used as the moral foundation of a national renaissance, a thoroughgoing reform of political, economic and social systems.\n\nThe Brotherhood has sometimes been incorrectly described as advocating a blanket rejection of everything Western; in reality, Banna did not hesitate to draw on Western as well as Islamic thought in the pursuit of this modern approach to Islam, using quotations from authors such as René Descartes, Isaac Newton and Herbert Spencer to support his own arguments. He proposed to send Brotherhood journalists to study journalism at the American University in Cairo, and suggested that another group of Brothers attend the School of Social Service, another Western school: \"its scientific and practical programme will greatly facilitate the training [of the Brothers] in social welfare works\". He was in favour of the teaching of foreign languages in schools: \"We need to drink from the springs of foreign culture to extract what is indispensable for our renaissance.\" His formulation of the concept of nationalism, which was fundamental to the Brotherhood's appeal to young people, combined modern European political concepts with Islamic ones. At the same time, Banna and the Brotherhood decried what they saw as their compatriots' slavish adoration of everything Western and their loss of respect for their own culture and history.\n\nBanna's concept of nationalism was emphatically Islamic, and its long-term goal was to see all humanity united by the Muslim faith. However, the Society had no clear definition of the sort of political system it wished for. The idea of reviving the Islamic caliphate (which had been abolished by Kemal Atatürk in 1924) was sometimes mentioned in the Brotherhood's publications, but Banna was not in favour of it. The chief practical consequence of the Brotherhood's Islamic nationalism was an energetic campaign against colonialism in Egypt and other Islamic countries; this was one of the main reasons for the Society's popularity.\n\nThe term \"jihad\" was a key concept in the Brotherhood's vocabulary: it referred not only to armed struggle to liberate Muslim lands from colonial occupation, but also to the inner effort that Muslims needed to make in order to free themselves from an ingrained inferiority complex and from fatalism and passivity towards their condition. It encompassed the courage to dissent expressed in the maxim \"The greatest jihad is to utter a word of truth in the presence of a tyrannical ruler\" (a \"hadith\" reported by Abu Sa'id al-Khudri) as well as any productive activity that Muslims undertook, on their own initiative, to improve the well-being of the Islamic community.\n\nIn keeping with his call for unity among Muslims, Banna advocated tolerance and goodwill between different forms of Islam. Although the Brotherhood rejected the corruption of some Sufi orders and their excessive glorification of their leaders, a kind of reformed Sufi practice was an important part of the Society's structure. The Society thus tried to bridge the gap between the Salafiyya movement and Sufism, and in the 1940s it tried to promote a \"rapprochement\" between Sunni Islam and Shi'a Islam. More generally, the Society insisted that its members must not try to impose their vision of Islam on others. Its General Law of 1934 stated that their actions must always reflect \"friendliness and gentleness\" and that they were to avoid \"bluntness, crudeness and abuses in words or hints\". Members who violated these principles (e.g. by pressuring unveiled women to veil themselves) were expelled.\n\nThe Brotherhood's openness to a diversity of Islamic belief and practice represented part of its appeal to young people. Banna deplored the rigid preoccupation of some Salafiyya societies with minor points of religious doctrine; he felt that Sufism and other traditional practices should be welcomed, and that the Brotherhood should focus on basic social and political issues rather than on theological hair-splitting.\n\nIn the early 1930s the Brotherhood started its Rover Scouts programme (\"jawwala\"), in which groups of young men were trained in athletics and an ascetic way of life, carried out charitable work, and toured branches of the Brotherhood to strengthen ties between them. The Rover Scouts, whose uniforms, banners and hymns attracted a great deal of attention, became an important means of recruiting new members, and Banna saw them as a way of introducing young men gradually to religion.\n\nIn 1931-32, the Brotherhood underwent an internal crisis; several members challenged Banna's control over the Society's treasury, his general stubbornness, and his insistence on having someone of low social status, a carpenter, as his deputy. Banna's candidate for deputy was overwhelmingly supported by a vote in the Society's General Assembly, and his offer to pay the Society's considerable outstanding debts further strengthened his position, but the conflict persisted until he threatened to expel his opponents from the Brotherhood, at which point they resigned. While some of their complaints about him were certainly justified, the conflict also reflected a more basic disagreement with his conception of the Brotherhood's mission. The secessionists felt that the Society should simply be a traditional Islamic welfare society that local notables could support, and should therefore have open accounts and socially respectable leaders.\n\nIn the aftermath of this conflict, Banna sought to clarify the basis of leadership in the Society, asserting that moral qualities and personal sacrifice were more important than titles, social standing and formal qualifications. In drafting the Society's General Law in 1934, he increased his own authority over the Brotherhood, insisting that authority within the organisation could only be based on complete confidence in the leadership, rejecting calls for increased consultation (\"shura\") and expressing a deep scepticism towards elections, which he felt had shown their failings during the 1931-32 crisis. He also instituted mediation committees to help defuse conflicts as they arose.\n\nBanna then began to place more emphasis on the Society's political responsibilities concerning a variety of issues such as prostitution, alcohol, gambling, inadequate religious education in schools, the influence of Christian missionaries and, most importantly, the struggle against imperialism. In response to critics who accused the Brotherhood of being a political group, Banna replied that involvement in politics was part of Islam: \"Islam does have a policy embracing the happiness of this world.\" While other Islamic organisations remained studiously apolitical during the great upheavals that characterised the 20s and 30s in Egypt, the Brotherhood attracted large numbers of young, educated Egyptians, particularly students, by encouraging and supporting them in campaigning for political causes.\n\nThe Brotherhood's first foray into active involvement in politics concerned the conflicts in Palestine between Zionism, Palestinian Arab nationalism and British rule. Like many other Egyptian associations, the Society raised money to support Palestinian Arab workers on strike during the 1936–39 Arab revolt in Palestine, and organised demonstrations and speeches in their favour. The Society also called for a boycott of Jewish shops in Cairo, on the grounds that Egyptian Jews were financing Zionist groups in Palestine. Articles hostile towards Jews (and not merely towards Zionism) appeared in its newspaper, though other articles upheld the distinction between Jews and Zionists.\n\nIn the mid-1930s the Brotherhood developed a formal hierarchical structure, with the General Guide (Banna) at the top, assisted by a General Guidance Bureau and a deputy. Local branches were organised into districts, whose administration had a large measure of autonomy. There were different categories of members, with increasing responsibilities: \"assistant\", \"associate\", \"worker\" and \"activist\". Membership fees depended on the means of each member, and poor members paid no fees. Promotion through the hierarchy depended on the performance of Islamic duties and on knowledge attained in the Society's study groups. This merit-based system was a radical departure from the hierarchies based on social standing that characterised Egyptian society at the time.\n\nIn 1938, Banna came to the conclusion that local conservative notables had gained too much influence in the Society, and that there were too many members with \"empty titles\" who did little practical work. To solve these problems, he introduced substantial organisational changes over the next few years; henceforth the branches' executive committees were chosen by the General Guidance Bureau rather than elected, and in 1941 the elected General Assembly was replaced by a smaller appointed body called the Consultative Assembly. However, the Society's structure remained decentralised, so that branches could continue to operate if the police arrested leading members.\n\nDespite Banna's skepticism concerning elections, manifested in their diminishing role within the Brotherhood, he argued for a kind of democracy when he set out his view of the principles underlying a political Islam in 1938:\nWhen one considers the principles that guide the constitutional system of government, one finds that such principles aim to preserve in all its forms the freedom of the individual citizen, to make the rulers accountable for their actions to the people and finally, to delimit the prerogatives of every single authoritative body. It will be clear to everyone that such basic principles correspond perfectly to the teaching of Islam concerning the system of government. For this reason, the Muslim Brothers consider that of all the existing systems of government, the constitutional system is the form that best suits Islam and Muslims.\nSuch a system would involve elections, but not political parties; Banna rejected party politics, pointing out that the Egyptian political parties of the time were closed off to all but the elites and had become instruments of British imperial rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36346845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36346845", "title": "Kaco", "text": "Kaco\n\nThe kaco is a type of shamanistic drum of the Ainu people, primarily those of Sakhalin Island.\n\nThe instrument is made of a wooden branch of willow or larch bent into an ellipse with a membrane of musk deer skin; the drum beater is covered in dogskin.\n\nThe word \"kaco\" may be a loan-word from the Orok language. The drum may be more formally called \"senisteh\", a word referring to charms in general.\n"}
{"id": "13601038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13601038", "title": "Katalepsis", "text": "Katalepsis\n\nKatalepsis (, \"grasping\") in Stoic philosophy, meant comprehension. To the Stoic philosophers, katalepsis was an important premise regarding one's state of mind as it relates to grasping fundamental philosophical concepts.\n\nAccording to the Stoics, the mind is constantly being bombarded with impressions (\"phantasiai\"). (An impression arising from the mind was called a \"phantasma\".) \nSome of these impressions are true and some false. Impressions are true when they are truly affirmed, false if they are wrongly affirmed, such as when one believes an oar dipped in the water to be broken because it appears so. When Orestes, in his madness, mistook Electra for a Fury, he had an impression both true and false: true inasmuch as he saw something, viz., Electra; false, inasmuch as Electra was not a Fury. Believing that the mind instinctively discriminated between real and false impressions, the Stoics said that one ought not to give credit to everything which is perceived, but only to those perceptions which contain some special mark of those things which appeared. Such a perception then was called a \"kataleptic phantasia\" (), or comprehensible perception. The \"kataleptic phantasia\" is that which is impressed by an object which exists, which is a copy of that object and can be produced by no other object. \n\nCicero relates that Zeno would illustrate katalepsis as follows:\n\nhe would display his hand in front of one with the fingers stretched out and say \"A visual appearance is like this\"; next he closed his fingers a little and said, \"An act of assent is like this\"; then he pressed his fingers closely together and made a fist, and said that that was comprehension (and from this illustration he gave to that process the actual name of \"katalepsis\", which it had not had before); but then he used to apply his left hand to his right fist and squeeze it tightly and forcibly, and then say that such was knowledge, which was within the power of nobody save the wise man \nKatalepsis was the main bone of contention between the Stoics and the two schools of philosophical skepticism during the Hellenistic period: the Pyrrhonists and the Academic Skeptics of Plato's Academy. These Skeptics, who chose the Stoics as their natural philosophical opposites, eschewed much of what the Stoics believed regarding the human mind and one's methods of understanding greater meanings. To the Skeptics, all perceptions were acataleptic, i.e. bore no conformity to the objects perceived, or, if they did bear any conformity, it could never be known.\n"}
{"id": "39776005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39776005", "title": "Kunthunatha", "text": "Kunthunatha\n\nKunthunath was the seventeenth Tirthankara, sixth Chakravartin and twelfth Kamadeva of the present half time cycle, Avasarpini. According to Jain beliefs, he became a siddha, a liberated soul which has destroyed all of its karma. Kunthunatha was born to King Sura (Surya) and Queen Sridevi at Hastinapur in the Ikshvaku dynasty on the fourteenth day of the Vaishakh Krishna month of the Indian calendar.\n\n\"Kunthu\" means heap of Jewels.\n\nLike all other Chakravartin, he also conquered all the lands and went to write his name on the foothills of mountains. Seeing the names of other Chakravartin already there, he saw his ambitions dwarfed. He then renounced his throne and became an ascetic for penance. At an age of 95,000 years he liberated his soul and attained Moksha on Mount Shikharji.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37843663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37843663", "title": "List of Baptist churches", "text": "List of Baptist churches\n\nThis is a list of Baptist churches that are notable either as congregations or as buildings.\n\nThe Baptist churches here are descended from the English dissenters who broke out Baptist church from other Protestant churches in Britain in the 1700s. There is an alternative view, that earlier Anabaptist churches started the Baptist church, but this list-article does not include those. (See List of Anabaptist churches).\n\n\nSee also List of Baptist churches in Leicester.\n\nThere are numerous notable Baptist churches in the U.S., including many whose buildings are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThere are at least 36 notable Baptist churches in Alabama.\n\nThere are many more NRHP-listed and other Baptist churches in Tennessee.\n\n\nThere are several Primitive Baptist churches in the U.S.\n"}
{"id": "5118841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5118841", "title": "List of occult terms", "text": "List of occult terms\n\nThe occult (from the Latin word \"occultus\" \"clandestine, hidden, secret\") is \"knowledge of the hidden\". In common English usage, \"occult\" refers to \"knowledge of the paranormal\", as opposed to \"knowledge of the measurable\", usually referred to as science. The term is sometimes taken to mean knowledge that \"is meant only for certain people\" or that \"must be kept hidden\", but for most practicing occultists it is simply the study of a deeper spiritual reality that extends beyond pure reason and the physical sciences. The terms \"esoteric\" and \"arcane\" can also be used to describe the occult, in addition to their meanings unrelated to the supernatural.\n\nIt also describes a number of magical organizations or orders, the teachings and practices taught by them, and to a large body of current and historical literature and spiritual philosophy related to this subject.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9134679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9134679", "title": "List of rock-cut temples in India", "text": "List of rock-cut temples in India\n\nThis is a partial list of Indian rock-cut temples by state or union territory.\n\n\n\n\n\nNone of these have been studied scientifically yet.\n\n15 rock-cut temples in the Indo-Aryan style are richly carved. This is a unique monolithic structure in the sub-Himalayan region.\nThe main shrine contains three stone images of Rama, Lakshmana and Sita. The temple complex is located on a hill and has a large rectangular water pond. The temple complex is believed to have been built by the Pandava during their exile; the exact date is not known. The ancient name of the city Kangra was Bhimnagar, founded by Bhima, one of the Pandava brothers.\n\nElora kailash temple\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48798543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48798543", "title": "List of saints of the Canary Islands", "text": "List of saints of the Canary Islands\n\nThis is a list of saints and blesseds of the Canary Islands (Spain). In addition, the list includes the venerable and servants of God born or linked to the archipelago.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23146045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23146045", "title": "Martyrdom in the Bahá'í Faith", "text": "Martyrdom in the Bahá'í Faith\n\nMartyrdom in the Bahá'í Faith is the act of sacrificing one's life in the service of humanity and in the name of God. In \"Hidden Words\", Bahá'u'lláh's revelation incites believers towards martyrdom: \"O son of being! Seek a martyr's death in My path, content with My pleasure […] To tinge thy hair with thy blood is greater in My sight than the creation of the universe and the light of both worlds. Strive then to attain this, O servant!\"\n\nHowever, Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, discouraged the literal meaning of sacrificing one's life, and instead offered the explanation that martyrdom is devoting oneself to service for humanity. `Abdu'l-Bahá, Bahá'u'lláh's son and appointed interpreter, explained that the truest form of martyrdom is a lifelong sacrifice to serve humanity in the name of God. While the Bahá'í Faith exalts the station of its martyrs, martyrdom is not something that Bahá'ís are encouraged to pursue; instead one is urged to value and protect one's life.\n\nIn the history of the Bahá'í Faith there are many who are considered martyrs. The Bahá'í Faith grew out of a separate religion, Bábism, which Bahá'ís see as part of their own history. In Bábism, martyrdom had the literal meaning of sacrificing one's life and was seen as a public declaration of sincerity and devotion to God.\nDuring the 1840s and 1850s the Báb claimed to be the return of the Mahdi and gained a strong following. The Persian clergy tried to stop the spread of the Bábí movement by denouncing the Bábís as apostates; these denouncements led to public executions of the Bábís, troop engagements against the Bábís, and an extensive pogrom where thousands of Bábís were killed. In addition, the Báb himself was publicly executed in 1850. The Bábís that were killed during these times are seen as martyrs by Bahá'ís, and the date of execution of the Báb, who Bahá'ís see as a Manifestation of God equal to that of Bahá'u'lláh, is considered a holy day in the Bahá'í calendar as the \"Martyrdom of the Báb\". Also among the Bábí executions was the poet Táhirih, one of the Báb's eighteen disciples, who Bahá'ís consider the first woman suffrage martyr.\n\nAfter Bahá'u'lláh abstracted the meaning of martyrdom, gave it a new meaning, and abolished holy war, the Bábís who became Bahá'ís stopped seeking martyrdom as a public declaration of devotion. However, Bahá'ís continue to be persecuted in predominantly Muslim countries, especially in Iran where over 200 Bahá'ís were executed between 1978 and 1998. Among these executions include two sets of nine people who were part of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Iran, the national governing body of the Bahá'ís, who were arrested and killed solely for their religious beliefs. Such deaths are also considered martyrdom. Mona Mahmudnizhad, one of the martyrs, is the subject of the Mark Perry play \"A Dress for Mona\" and Doug Cameron's song \"Mona With the Children\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11316925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11316925", "title": "Menachem Zioni", "text": "Menachem Zioni\n\nMenahem Zioni (Ziyyuni) ben Meir of Speyer was a kabbalist of the middle of the 15th century, author of the cabalistic commentary \"Ẓiyyuni,\" from which he derives his name. He based his work upon Rashi and Naḥmanides, and especially upon the old cabalistic literature of the geonic period. The \"Ẓiyyuni\" is introduced by poems in alphabetic and acrostic order. The division Bereshit begins with a preface on the importance of the assumption of the creation of the world, and in support of this view the arguments of Maimonides are quoted at length. Short poems serve as transitions to the several parashiyyot, and in conclusion there is an acrostic poem, to which, in the second edition, another poem is added.\n\nThe verse of Zioni quoted by L. Dukes (\"Orient, Lit.\" iv. 798) from a manuscript chrestomathy constitutes the last stanza of this final poem. The book is frequently quoted in the Yalḳuṭ Re'ubeni. It was printed by Vincentio Conti at Cremona in 1559, in rabbinic script, and after this edition was burned (in the same year) by marauding Spanish soldiers, it was reprinted there in the following year. Menahem is not to be identified with Menahem Zion b. Meïr (as does Heidenheim, \"Pijjutim und Pajtanim,\" p. 8), a payyeṭan of the twelfth century well known under the name of \"Menahem b. Machir\" (Zunz, \"G. V.\" 2d ed., p. 405).\n\n"}
{"id": "14657979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14657979", "title": "Moksha (Jainism)", "text": "Moksha (Jainism)\n\nSanskrit or Prakrit mokkha refers to the liberation or salvation of a soul from \"saṃsāra\", the cycle of birth and death. It is a blissful state of existence of a soul, attained after the destruction of all karmic bonds. A liberated soul is said to have attained its true and pristine nature of infinite bliss, infinite knowledge and infinite perception. Such a soul is called \"siddha\" and is revered in Jainism.\n\nIn Jainism, \"moksha\" is the highest and the noblest objective that a soul should strive to achieve. In fact, it is the only objective that a person should have; other objectives are contrary to the true nature of soul. With the right view, knowledge and efforts all souls can attain this state. That is why Jainism is also known as \"\" or the \"path to liberation\".\n\nAccording to the Sacred Jain Text, Tattvartha sutra:\n\nFrom the point of view of potentiality of , Jain texts bifurcates the souls in two categories–\"bhavya\" and \"abhavya\". \"Bhavya\" souls are those souls who have faith in and hence will make some efforts to achieve liberation. This potentiality or quality is called \"bhavyata\". However, \"bhavyata\" itself does not guarantee , as the soul needs to expend necessary efforts to attain it. On the other hand, \"abhavya\" souls are those souls who cannot attain liberation as they do not have faith in and hence never make any efforts to attain it.\n\nAccording to Jainism, the \"Ratnatraya\" or \"three Gems\", \"samyagdarśana\" (correct perception), \"samyagjñāna\" (right knowledge) and \"samyakchāritra\" (right conduct), together constitute the \"mokṣamarga\" or the path to liberation. According to Acharya KundaKunda's Samayasara:\n\n\"Samyak Darsana\" or rational perception is the rational faith in the true nature of every substance of the universe.\n\n\"Samyak Caritra\" or rational conduct is the natural conduct of a (soul) living being. It consists in following austerities, engaging in right activities and observance of vows, carefulness and controls.\nOnce a soul secures \"samyaktva\", is assured within a few lifetimes.\nThe fourteen stages on the path to liberation are called \"Gunasthāna\". These are:\nThose who pass the last stage are called \"siddha\" and become fully established in Right Faith, Right Knowledge and Right Conduct.\n\nIn that night in which the Venerable Ascetic Mahavira, died, freed from all pains, the eighteen confederate kings of Kasi and Kosala, the nine Mallakis and nine Licchavis, on the day of new moon, instituted an illuminations on the Poshadha, which was a fasting day; for they said: 'Since the light of intelligence is gone, let us make an illumination of material matter!'(128)\n\nA liberated soul dwell in \"Siddhashila\" with infinite faith, infinite knowledge, infinite perception, and infinite perfection. According to the Jain text, \"Puruşārthasiddhyupāya\":\n\n"}
{"id": "35241478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35241478", "title": "Mythology of Indonesia", "text": "Mythology of Indonesia\n\nThe mythology of Indonesia is very diverse, the Indonesian people consisting of hundreds of ethnic groups, each with their own myths and legends that explain the origin of their people, the tales of their ancestors and the demons or deities in their belief systems. The tendency to syncretize by overlying older traditions with newer foreign ideas has occurred. For example, the older ancestral mythology might be merged with foreign mythology, such as Hindu, Islam, or Christian biblical mythology.\n\nSome native Indonesian ethnic groups that were isolated from the rest of the world until recent centuries have their own native myths and gods. These native mythologies are relatively free from foreign influences, such as Torajans, Nias, Bataks, Dayaks and Papuans. By contrast, Javanese, Balinese, and to some degree Sundanese were influenced by Hindu-Buddhist Indian mythology as early as the 1st century CE. Hindu gods, legends and epics such as \"Ramayana\" and \"Mahabharata\" were adopted and adapted into a uniquely local form.\n\nMany Hindu-Buddhist mythical beings have a role in Javanese and Balinese mythology, including of Hindu gods and heroes, devatas, asuras, apsaras (known as hapsari or bidadari), kinnaras, etc., while native gods of nature such as Semar, Dewi Sri, and Nyai Loro Kidul are either given identified as their Hindu counterpart or incorporated into a Java-Bali Hindu pantheon unknown in India. For example, native rice goddess Dewi Sri are identified with Lakshmi the shakti of Vishnu, and Semar and his sons the Punakawans are incorporated into the epic of Mahabharata in Javanese wayang kulit, as the clown servants of the Pandawas. Several names refer to gods, such as \"dewa\" (devas), \"dewi\" (devi), \"dewata\" (devatas), and in native traditions usually referred to as \"Batara\" (male god) and \"Batari\" (female goddess). These names are similar to the native Philippines mythology of Bathala and Diwata.\n\nAfter the coming of Islam to the Indonesian archipelago, Islamic mythology especially those dealing with spiritual beings, such as devils, demons, jinns and angels entered Indonesian mythology. In Sumatra, Malay, Aceh and Minangkabau mythology was almost entirely supplanted by Islamic mythology. However, belief in local spirits such as the forest guardian, the ghost of water or haunted places still exists, often associated with a jinn or the tormented soul of a deceased human.\n\nCreation myths explain the creation of the universe and the world and its lands. They often explain the story of their ancestors. Most native Indonesian ethnic groups, especially those not influenced by other traditions, explain the origin of the universe, gods and deities, as well as their ancestors.\n\nAncient people in Java and Bali believed in an unseen spiritual entity that has supernatural powers identified as Hyangs. This spirit can be either divine or ancestral. The reverence for this spiritual entity can be found in Sunda Wiwitan, Kejawen, and Balinese Hinduism.\n\nAccording to the myth of some ethnic groups in Sulawesi, the earth sat upon the back of gigantic babirusa. An earthquake happened when the boar felt itchy and rubbed its back against a gigantic palm tree. This myth has its counterpart, in the Hindu myth of Varaha, the third avatar of Vishnu as a gigantic boar that carried the world upon his back.\n\nThe Dayak indigenous religion, Kaharingan, is a form of animism. The Dayak arose from middle-earth out of a cosmic battle at the beginning of time between a primal couple, a male and female bird/dragon (serpent). Representations of this primal couple are among the most pervasive motifs of Dayak art. The primal mythic conflict ended in a mutual, procreative murder. The body parts became the present universe stage by stage. This primal sacrificial creation of the universe is re-experienced and ultimately harmoniously brought together in the seasons of the year, the interdependence of river (up-stream and down-stream) and land, the tilling of the earth and fall of the rain, the union of male and female, the distinctions between and cooperation of social classes, the wars and trade with foreigners, indeed in all aspects of life, even including tattoos on the body, the lay-out of dwellings and the annual cycle of renewal ceremonies, funeral rites, etc. The practice of Kaharingan differs from group to group, but shamans, specialists in ecstatic flight, are central to Dayak religion. They bring together the various realms of Heaven (Upper-world), earth and Under-world, for example healing the sick by retrieving their souls while they journey to the Upper-world land of the dead, accompanying and protecting the soul of the dead, presiding over annual renewal and agricultural regeneration festivals, etc. Death rituals are most elaborate when a noble (\"kamang\") dies. On particular religious occasions, the spirit is believed to descend to partake in celebration, a mark of honour and respect to past ancestors and blessings for a prosperous future.\n\nThe Batak creation myth has many versions. Large collections of Batak tales were recorded by European scholars in their own languages (mostly Dutch) beginning in the mid-19th century.\n\nAt the beginning of time there was only the sky with a great sea beneath it. In the sky lived the gods and the sea was the home of a mighty underworld dragon \"Naga Padoha\". The earth did not yet exist and human beings, too, were as yet unknown. At the beginning of creation stands the god \"Mula Jadi Na Bolon\". His origin remains uncertain. A rough translation of the name is the \"beginning of becoming\". Everything that exists can be traced to him. \"Mula Jadi\" lives in the upper world, which is usually divided into seven levels. His three sons, \"Batara Guru\", \"Mangalabulan\" and \"Soripada\" were born from eggs laid by a hen fertilized by \"Mula Jadi\". Two swallows act as messengers and helpers to \"Mula Jadi\" in his act of creation. Their functions vary in the different versions. \"Mula Jadi\" begets three daughters whom he gives as wives for his three sons. Mankind is the result of the union of the three couples. Besides the three sons of \"Mula Jadi\" another god, \"Asiasi\", has only unclear place and function. There is some evidence that \"Asiasi\" can be seen as the balance and unity of the trinity of gods.\n\nThe ruler of the underworld, i. e. the primeval sea, is the serpent-dragon \"Naga Padoha\". He too existed before the beginning and seems to be the opponent of \"Mula Jadi\". As ruler of the underworld \"Naga Padoha\" also has an important function in the creation of the earth.\n\nAll these six gods play a minor role in ritual. They do not receive sacrificial offerings from the faithful and no places of sacrifice are built for them. They are merely called on in prayers for help and assistance.\n\nThe origin of the earth and of mankind is connected mainly with the daughter of \"Batara Guru\", \"Sideak Parujar\", who is the actual creator of the earth. She flees from her intended husband, the lizard-shaped son of \"Mangalabulan\", and lets herself down on a spun thread from the sky to the middle world, which at that time was a watery waste. She refuses to go back, but feels very unhappy. Out of compassion \"Mula Jadi\" sends his granddaughter a handful of earth so that she can find somewhere to live. \"Sideak Parudjar\" was ordered to spread out this earth and thus the earth became broad and long. But the goddess was not able to enjoy her rest for long. The earth had been spread out on the head of \"Naga Padoha\", the dragon of the underworld who lived in the water. He groaned under the weight and attempted to get rid of it by rolling around. The earth was softened by water and was almost destroyed. With the help of \"Mula Jadi\" and by her own cunning \"Sideak Parudjar\" was able to overcome the dragon. She thrust a sword into the body of \"Naga Padoha\" up to the hilt and laid him in an iron block. Whenever \"Naga Padoha\" twists in its fetters an earthquake occurs.\n\nAfter the lizard-shaped son of \"Mangalabulan\", the husband the gods intended for her, had taken another name and another form, \"Sideak Parujar\" marries him. She becomes the mother of twins of opposite sexes. When the two have grown up their divine parents return to the upper world, leaving the couple behind on the earth. Mankind is the result of their incestuous union.\n\nThe couple settle on Pusuk Buhit, a volcano on the western shore of Lake Toba, and found the village of Si Anjur Mulamula. The mythological ancestor of the Batak, \"Si Raja Batak\" is one of their grandchildren.\n\nTorajans indigenous belief system is polytheistic animism, called \"aluk\", or \"the way\" (sometimes translated as \"the law\"). In the Toraja myth, the ancestors of Torajan people came down from heaven using stairs, which were then used by the Torajans as a communication medium with \"Puang Matua\", the Creator. The cosmos, according to \"aluk\", is divided into the upper world (heaven), the world of man (earth), and the underworld. At first, heaven and earth were married, then there was a darkness, a separation, and finally the light. Animals live in the underworld, which is represented by rectangular space enclosed by pillars, the earth is for mankind, and the heaven world is located above, covered with a saddle-shaped roof. Other Toraja gods include \"Pong Banggai di Rante\" (god of Earth), \"Indo' Ongon-Ongon\" (a goddess who can cause earthquakes), \"Pong Lalondong\" (god of death), and \"Indo' Belo Tumbang\" (goddess of medicine); there are many more.\n\nThe mythology of Fumeripits explain the origin of Asmat people, on the Southern coast of Papua. The myth explains that Fumeripits was the first man in Asmat lands. Fumeripits' canoe sank in the sea and his body was stranded on Asmat coast. He was revived by magical bird. Feeling lonely he carved numerous wooden figures, and when he created tifa drum and played it, these wooden figures magically became alive as the ancestors of Asmat people.\n\nAccording to Sunda Wiwitan beliefs of the Sundanese, a supreme god named Sang Hyang Kersa created the universe and also other gods such as Mother Goddess Batari Sunan Ambu and Batara Guru (identified as Shiva after the adoption of Hinduism). Many other gods were adopted from Hindu gods such as Indra and Vishnu. Batara Guru rules the kahyangan or svargaloka as the king of gods, while the Sang Hyang Kersa remains unseen. According to Sundanese legends, the land of Parahyangan highlands was magically created when the hyangs (gods) are happy and smiling. To fill the land Sang Hyang Kersa created animals and demons, while the myth of Dewi Sri explains the origin of rice and plants on earth as told in Wawacan Sulanjana. Sang Hyang Kersa also created seven bataras (lesser demigods) in Sasaka Pusaka Buana (The Sacred Place on Earth). The oldest of these is Batara Cikal who is considered the ancestor of the Kanekes people. Other bataras ruled various locations in Sunda lands and became the ancestors of human beings.\n\nSundanese folklore also explains the origin of certain things and places. The myth of Sangkuriang explains the origin of Tangkuban Perahu volcano, and the collective memory of an ancient lake in Bandung. The epic tale of Ciung Wanara explains the relationship between Sundanese and Javanese people as the tale of two contesting brothers.\n\nThe Javanese myth of Tantu Pagelaran explains the origin of Java island. Batara Guru (Shiva) ordered the gods Brahma and Vishnu to fill Java island with human beings. However at that time Java island was floating freely on the ocean. To make the island stay still, the gods decided to nail it on the earth by moving part of Mahameru in Jambudvipa (India) and attaching it upon Java. Vishnu transformed into a giant turtle and carried the Meru upon his back, while the god Brahma transformed into a giant naga serpent and wrapped his body around the mountain and giant turtle's back, so the Meru mountain could be transported safely. The mountain fragments scattered upon Java created the volcanoes and mountainous regions spanned from west to east. The main part of the Meru mountain attached to the eastern part of Java. Later the gods cut off a small tip to make Mount Pawitra (Mount Penanggungan,) while the main part of Meru mountain became Semeru volcano, the abode of Lord Shiva.\n\nThe myth of Aji Saka tells the story about the coming of civilization to Java, brought by the legendary first king of Java Aji Saka, and the story of Javanese script. Soon after the gods created and nailed the island of Java, the island became habitable. However the first race to rule the island were the \"denawa\" (giant demon) that repressed all creatures and ate humans. The first kingdom in Java was Medang Kamulan, and the king was the Giant King Dewata Cengkar, the cruel King of the country who ate the flesh of his own people.\n\nOne day a young wise man by the name of Aji Saka come to fight Dewata Cengkar. Aji Saka came from Bumi Majeti. Some sources hold that his origin was Jambudwipa (India) from Shaka (Schytian) origin, explaining his name. One day he told his two servants Dora and Sembodo that he was going to Java. He told them that while he was away, both of them were to guard his heirloom (Pusoko). After arriving in Java, Aji Saka moved inland to the kingdom of Medang Kamulan. In a battle, Aji Saka pushed Dewata Cengkar into the South Sea. Dewata Cengkar did not die, instead becoming a Bajul Putih (White Crocodile). Aji Saka became a ruler of Medang Kamulan.\n\nMeanwhile, a woman of the village of Dadapan, found an egg. She put the egg in her Lumbung (Rice Barn). After a certain period the egg vanished, replaced by a snake. The villagers wanted to kill the snake, but the snake said, \"I'm the son of Aji Saka, bring me to him\". Aji Saka told the snake that he would be recognized as his son, if he could kill the Bajul Putih in the South Sea. After a long, stormy battle in which both sides demonstrated strength and skill, the snake killed Bajul Putih.\n\nAs had been promised the snake was recognized as Aji Saka's son and he was given a name Jaka Linglung (a stupid boy). In the palace Jaka Linglung greedily ate the domestic pets of the palace. He was punished by the King, expelling him to live in the Jungle of Pesanga. He was tightly roped until he could not move his head. He was instructed only to eat things which fall into his mouth.\n\nOne day, a group of nine village boys were playing around in that Jungle. Suddenly it was raining heavily. They found shelter in a cave. Only eight boys went inside, while the ninth, suffering from skin disease had to stay out. All of a sudden, the cave fell apart, and the eight boys vanished. Only the one who stayed outside was safe. The cave was actually the mouth of Jaka Linglung.\n\nAfter ruling the Medang Kamulan kingdom, Aji Saka sent a messenger to inform his faithful servants to bring the pusoko to him. Dora came to Sembodo and told him that Aji Saka ask them to bring the pusoko to Java. Sembodo refused, since he clearly remembered Aji Saka's order: no one except Aji Saka himself was allowed to take the pusoko. Dora and Sembodo distrusted each other, and suspected that the other tried to steal the pusoko. They fought to death. Aji Saka became curious why it was taking so long, came home himself only to discover the bodies of his two faithful servants and the terrible misunderstanding between them. Aji Saka composed a poem to them that later become the origin of hanacaraka Javanese script. The Javanese alphabet itself forms a poem, and a perfect pangram, of which the line-by-line translation is as follows.:\n\n\"Hana caraka\" There (were) two messengers <br>\n\"data sawala\" (They) had animosity (among each other)<br>\n\"padha jayanya\" (They were) equally powerful (in fight)<br>\n\"maga bathanga\" Here are the corpses.\n\nMinangkabau culture is heavily influenced by Islamic faith. As a result, Islamic mythology can be found in Minangkabau culture. However Minangkabau people have their own legend about the origin of their tribe's name. The name \"Minangkabau\" is thought to be a portmanteau of \"minang\" (\"victorious\") and \"kabau\" (\"buffalo\"). A legend holds that the name is derived from a territorial dispute between the Minangkabau and a neighbouring prince, traditionally associated with Java. To avoid a battle, the local people proposed a fight to the death between two water buffalo. The prince agreed and produced the largest, meanest, most aggressive buffalo. The Minangkabau produced a hungry baby buffalo with small horns ground to be as sharp as knives. Seeing the adult buffalo across the field, the baby ran forward, hoping for milk. The big buffalo saw no threat in the baby buffalo and paid no attention to it, looking around for a worthy opponent. When the baby thrust his head under the big bull's belly, looking for an udder, the sharpened horns killed the bull and the Minangkabau won the dispute. Minangkabau royalties can be traced to Matriarch Bundo Kanduang.\n\nMalay also heavily influenced by Islamic culture. As a result, Islamic mythology shaped the myth among Malay people. The Malay Annals (Sulalatus Salatin) describe some of these myths and often mention Islamic and Middle East references. According to Malay legends the ancestor of Malay king was Sang Sapurba a demigod descendant of Iskandar Dzulkarnain, a Middle Eastern legendary-historical figure usually associated with Alexander the Great. It was said that Sang Sapurba descended on the top of Bukit Seguntang in Palembang and became the predecessor of Malay kings in the region.\n\nThe myth connected to the story of god and goddesses and mythical creatures\nDemons are malevolent beings and evil spirits. Some of these demons are derived from older traditions, while other might derived from recent urban legends.\n"}
{"id": "533626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533626", "title": "Nazirite", "text": "Nazirite\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, a nazirite or nazarite is one who voluntarily took a vow described in . \"Nazarite\" comes from the Hebrew word \"nazir\" meaning \"consecrated\" or \"separated\". This vow required the person to:\n\nAfter following these requirements for a designated interval (which would be specified in the individual's vow), the person would immerse in a mikveh and make three offerings: a lamb as a burnt offering (\"olah\"), a ewe as a sin-offering (\"hatat\"), and a ram as a peace offering (\"shelamim\"), in addition to a basket of unleavened bread, grain offerings and drink offerings, which accompanied the peace offering. They would also shave their head in the outer courtyard of the Jerusalem Temple and then place the hair on the same fire as the peace offering. ()\n\nThe nazirite is described as being \"holy unto YHWH\" (), yet at the same time must bring a sin offering. This has led to divergent approaches to the nazirite in the Talmud, and later authorities, with some viewing the nazirite as an ideal, and others viewing him as a sinner.\n\nHalakha (Jewish law) has a rich tradition on the laws of the nazirite. These laws were first recorded in the Mishna, and in the Talmud in the tractate \"Nazir\". These laws were later codified by Maimonides in the \"Mishneh Torah\" \"Hafla'ah\", \"Nazir\". \n\nAll the laws of vows in general apply also to the nazirite vow. As with other vows, a father has the ability to annul the nazirite vow of his young daughter, and a husband has the ability to annul a vow by his wife, when they first hear about it (). Likewise, all of the laws related to intent and conditional vows apply also to nazirite vows.\n\nIn general there are three types of nazirites:\n\nEach one of these has slightly different laws. For example, a permanent nazirite is allowed to cut his hair once a year if the hair is bothersome. A Samson-like nazirite is a permanent nazirite. Therefore there are only two, and not three, types of nazirite, since the \"Samson-like\" is the same as the \"permanent\" nazirite. These types of nazirites have no source in the Bible but are known through tradition.\n\nA person can become a nazirite whether or not the Temple in Jerusalem is standing. However, lacking the temple there is no way to bring the offerings that end the nazirite vow. As such the person would \"de facto\" be a permanent nazirite.\n\nIf a nazirite fails in fulfilling these three obligations there may be consequences. All or part of the person's time as a nazirite may need to be repeated. Furthermore, the person may be obligated to bring sacrifices. Whether a nazirite has to repeat time as a nazirite depends on what part of the nazirite vow was transgressed. A nazirite who becomes defiled by a corpse is obligated to start the entire nazirite period over again. In the Mishna, Queen Helena vowed to be a nazirite for seven years, but became defiled near the end of each of two of her first nazirite periods, forcing her to twice start over. She was a nazirite for a total of 21 years. Nazirites who shave their hair are obligated to redo the last 30 days of the nazirite period. However, if the nazirite drinks wine, the nazirite period continues as normal.\n\nAn Israelite () can only become a nazirite by an intentional verbal declaration. This declaration can be in any language, and can be something as simple as saying \"me too\" as a nazirite passes by. A person can specify the duration as an interval of 30 days or more. If a person does not specify, or specifies a time less than 30 days, the vow is for 30 days. A person who says \"I am a nazirite forever\" or \"I am a nazirite for all my life\" is a permanent nazirite and slightly different laws apply. Likewise if a person says \"I am a nazirite like Samson,\" the laws of a Samson-like nazirite apply. However, if a person says that he is a nazirite for a thousand years, he is a regular nazirite. A father, but not a mother, can declare his son, but not his daughter, a nazirite. However the child or any close family member has a right to refuse this status.\n\nThis vow required the nazirite to observe the following:\n\nIt is also forbidden for the nazirite to have grape or grape derivatives, even if they are not alcoholic. According to traditional rabbinic interpretation, there is no prohibition for the nazirite to drink alcoholic beverages not derived from grapes. According to less traditional rabbinic interpretation, a Nazirite is forbidden to consume any alcohol, and vinegar from such alcohol, regardless of its source. The laws of wine or grapes mixing in other food is similar to other dietary laws that apply to all Jews.\n\nA nazirite can groom his hair with his hand or scratch his head and needn’t be concerned if some hair falls out. However a nazirite cannot comb his hair since it is a near certainty to pull out some hair. A nazirite is not allowed to use a chemical depilatory that will remove hair. A nazirite that recovers from Tzaraath, a skin disease described in , is obligated to cut his hair despite being a nazirite.\n\nThe nazirite (except for a Samson-like nazirite as stated above) may not become ritually impure by proximity to a dead body. Causes include being under the same roof as a corpse. However a nazirite can contract other kinds of ritual impurity. A nazirite that finds an unburied corpse is obligated to bury it, even though he will become defiled in the process.\n\nAt the end of the nazirite vow the nazirite brings three sacrificial offerings to the Temple in Jerusalem. The first is a ewe for a \"chatat\" (sin offering), the second is a lamb for an \"olah\" (elevation offering), and finally a ram as a \"shelamim\" (peace offering) along with a basket of matzah and their grain and drink offerings. After bringing the sacrificial offerings the nazirites would shave their heads in the outer courtyard of the Temple. Part of the Nazir's commencement offering is given to the Kohen. This gift is listed as one of the twenty-four kohanic gifts.\n\nThe nazirite is called \"holy unto the Lord\" (Numbers 6:8), but at the same time must bring a sin-offering (Numbers 6:11) and his sins are explicitly referred to (\"and make atonement for that which he sinned\"). This apparent contradiction, pointed out in the Babylonian Talmud, led to two divergent views. Samuel and Rabbi Eleazar ha-Kappar, focusing on the sin-offering of the nazirite, regarded nazirites, as well as anyone who fasted when not obligated to or took any vow whatsoever, as a sinner. A different Rabbi Eliezer argues that the nazirite is indeed holy and the sin referred to in the verse applies only to a nazirite who became ritually defiled.\n\nSimeon the Just (a High Priest) was opposed to the nazirite vow and ate of the sacrifice offered by a nazirite on only a single occasion. Once a youth with flowing hair came to him and wished to have his head shorn. When asked his motive, the youth replied that he had seen his own face reflected in a spring and it had pleased him so that he feared lest his beauty might become an idol to him. He therefore wished to offer up his hair to God, and Simeon then partook of the sin-offering which he brought.\n\nMaimonides, following the view of Rabbi Eliezer Hakappar, calls a nazirite a sinner, explaining that a person should always be moderate in his actions and not be to any extreme. Nevertheless, he does point out that a nazirite can be evil or righteous depending on the circumstances.\n\nNahmanides, in his commentary on the Torah, sides with Samuel and Rabbi Eliezer. He explains that ideally the person should be a nazirite his whole life. Therefore, ceasing to be nazirite requires a sin-offering.\n\nMany later opinions compromise between these views and explain that a nazirite is both good and bad.\n\nTwo examples of nazirites in the Hebrew Bible are Samson (Judges 13:5), and Samuel (1 Samuel 1:11). Both were born of previously barren mothers and entered into their vows through their mothers' oaths rather than their own volition:\n\n\n\nThese vows required Samson and Samuel to live devout lives, yet in return they received extraordinary gifts: Samson possessed strength and ability in physical battle against the Philistines, while Samuel became a prophet.\n\nSome believe that Samson broke his vow by touching the dead body of a lion and drinking wine () However, the divine terms for not touching a dead body, listed in Numbers 6, refer to the body of a human--not that of an animal. Also, the feast held by Samson for his marriage does not indicate that Samson drank wine. In addition, the supernatural strength that Samson was given would have been taken away at the time of Judges 14 if his Nazirite vow had been broken. Goswell suggests that \"we cannot understand the career and failings of Samson without attention to his Nazirite status.\"\n\nSamson has a unique nazirite status called Nazir Shimshon which permitted him to touch dead bodies, since the angel who imposed the status omitted this restriction. Radak conjectures that even without this special status, Samson would be allowed to touch dead bodies while doing God's work defending Israel. \n\nThe prophet Amos later condemned the Israelites for their failure to respect the Nazirite vow, along with their failure to hear the prophets (Book of Amos chapter 2):\n\nThis vow was observed into the intertestamental period (the interval between the writing of the Hebrew Bible and the writing of the Christian New Testament). 1 Maccabees (part of the Christian Deuterocanon) 3:49 mentions men who had ended their nazirite vows, an example dated to about 166 BCE. Josephus mentions a number of people who had taken the vow, such as his tutor Banns (\"Antiquities\" 20.6), and Gamaliel records in the Mishna how the father of Rabbi Chenena made a lifetime nazirite vow before him (Nazir 29b).\n\nThe Septuagint uses a number of terms to translate the 16 uses of \"nazir\" in the Hebrew Bible, such as \"he who vowed\" (\"euxamenos\" εὐξαμένος) or \"he who was made holy\" (\"egiasmenos\" ἡγιασμένος) etc. It is left untranslated and transliterated in Judges 13:5 as \"nazir\" (ναζιρ).\n\nThe practice of a nazirite vow is part of the ambiguity of the Greek term \"Nazarene\" that appears in the New Testament; the sacrifice of a lamb and the offering of bread does suggest a relationship with Christian symbolism (then again, these are the two most frequent offerings prescribed in Leviticus, so no definitive conclusions can be drawn). While a saying in ( and ) attributed to Jesus makes it doubtful that he, reported to be \"a winebibber\", was a nazirite during his ministry, the verse ends with the curious statement, \"But wisdom is justified of all her children\". The advocation of the ritual consumption of wine as part of the Passover, the \"tevilah\" in Mark 14:22–25 indicated he kept this aspect of the nazirite vow when Jesus said, \"Verily I say unto you, I will drink no more of the fruit of the vine, until that day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God.\" The ritual with which Jesus commenced his ministry (recorded via Greek as \"Baptism\") and his vow in and at the end of his ministry, do respectively reflect the final and initial steps (purification by immersion in water and abstaining from wine) inherent in a Nazirite vow. These passages may indicate that Jesus intended to identify himself as a Nazirite (\"not drinking the fruit of vine\") before his crucifixion.\n\nLuke the Evangelist clearly was aware that wine was forbidden in this practice, for the angel () that announces the birth of John the Baptist foretells that \"he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink; and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb\", in other words, a nazirite from birth, the implication being that John had taken a lifelong nazirite vow.\n\nActs of the Apostles is also attributed to Luke (see Luke-Acts) and in it is reported that the apostle Paul cut off his hair \"because of a vow he had taken\". From Acts we learn that the early Jewish Christians occasionally took the temporary Nazarite vow, and it is probable that the vow of St. Paul mentioned in Acts 18:18, was of a similar nature, although the shaving of his head in Cenchrea, outside of Palestine, was not in conformity with the rules laid down in the sixth chapter of Numbers, nor with the interpretation of them by the Rabbinical schools of that era. If we are to believe the legend of Hegesippus quoted by Eusebius, James, brother of Jesus, Bishop of Jerusalem, was a Nazarite, and performed with rigorous exactness all the practices enjoined by that rule of life. In Paul was advised to counter the claims made by some Judaizers (that he encouraged a revolt against the Mosaic Law). He showed the \"believers there\" (believers in Jesus, i.e. the Jewish Christians) in Jerusalem otherwise by purifying himself and accompanying four men to the temple who had taken nazaritic vows (so as to refute the naysayers).\n\nThis stratagem only delayed the inevitable mob assault on him. This event brought about the accusation in that Paul was the \"ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes\", and thus provides further verification that the term Nazarene was a mistranslation of the term Nazirite. In any case, the relationship of Paul of Tarsus and Judaism is still disputed.\n\nWhat is curious is that Luke does not here mention the apostle James the Just as taking nazirite vows, although later Christian historians (e.g. Epiphanius \"Panarion\" 29.4) believed he had, and the vow of a nazirite would explain the asceticism Eusebius of Caesarea ascribed to James, a claim that gave James the title \"James the Just\".\n\nThe tradition of the nazirite vow has had a significant influence on the Rastafari Religion, and elements of the vow have been adopted as part of this religion. In describing the obligations of their religion, Rastafari make reference to the nazirite vow taken by Samson. Part of this vow, as adopted by the Rastafari, is to avoid the cutting of one's hair. This is inspired by the text of Leviticus 21:5 \"They shall not make baldness upon their head, neither shall they shave off the corner of their beard nor make any cuttings in their flesh.\" The visible sign of this vow is the Rastafarian's dreadlocks. Some Rastafari have concluded that Samson had dreadlocks, as suggested by the description stating that he had seven locks upon his head.\n\nAdditionally, the Rastafari are taught to abstain from alcohol in accordance with the nazirite vow. They have also adopted dietary laws derived from Leviticus, which accounts for some similarity to the prohibitions of the Jewish dietary law of Kashrut.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37355583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37355583", "title": "Nilakanta (Hinduism)", "text": "Nilakanta (Hinduism)\n\nAccording to Hindu mythology, Lord Shiva has gained this epithet when he consumed the Kalakuta (Poison) that emerged from Samudra Manthan.\n\nIravatham Mahadevan an Indian epigraphist has recently published an interesting paper How did the ‘great god’ get a ‘blue neck’? a bilingual clue to the Indus Script that gives the origin of the title Neelakanta for Lord Shiva based on Bilingual Parallels.\n\nAccording to Mahadevan, the phrase Nil Kanta is the phonetic value of the Indus sign pair meaning \"great personage\" in proto dravidian language.\nThis title when borrowed in to Indo-Aryan as a load word with only minimal phonetic changes has changed its meaning to Nila Kanta which means \"Blue Neck\" in Indo-Aryan.\nConcurrently, the meaning of the derived title nīlkanta passed into Indo Aryan as a loan translation, Mahādeva, ‘great god’. Both the loanword and the loan translation refer to Shiva who had emerged as the ‘great god’ in this period.\n"}
{"id": "9794959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9794959", "title": "Nova Religio", "text": "Nova Religio\n\nNova Religio, The Journal of Alternative and Emergent Religions is a peer-reviewed academic journal of religious studies that focuses on New Religious Movements. The journal is published by University of California Press. First published in 1997 as a biannual, the journal changed to a quarterly format in 2005.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and/or indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "8268475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8268475", "title": "Psilocybe baeocystis", "text": "Psilocybe baeocystis\n\nPsilocybe baeocystis is a psilocybin mushroom of the family Hymenogastraceae. It contains the hallucinogenic compounds psilocybin, psilocin and baeocystin.\nThe species is commonly known by various names such as bottle caps, knobby tops, blue bells, olive caps.\n\n\nThe cap is 1.5–5.5 cm in diameter and conic to obtusely conic to convex. The cap margin is turned inwards when young, rarely becoming plane in age, often distinctly rippled, translucent-striate and bruising and aging greenish-bluish about the margin. It is dark olive brown to buff brown in color, occasionally steel blue; when dried it tends toward copper brown in the center. It is hygrophanous, fading to milk white, and viscid when moist from a gelatinous pellicle, usually separable. The flesh is thin and bruises blue easily. The gills are close with adnate to sinuate attachment and are grayish to cinnamon brown, with the edges remaining pallid. The stipe is 5–7 cm long, 2–3 mm thick, and equal to subequal. The color is pallid to brownish with white filaments, while often more yellowish towards the apex. Distinct rhizomorphs are found at the base. The stipe is brittle, stuffed with loose fibers, and the partial veil is evanescent and rapidly becomes indistinguishable. It stains blue easily where damaged. \"Psilocybe baeocystis\" has a farinaceous smell and taste.\n\n\"Psilocybe baeocystis\" spores are dark purplish brown in deposit, oblong in face view or asymmetric ellipsoid (mango form) in side view, and are (8.5) 9.5–13.7(17) x (5) 5.5–6.6(7.1) µm.\nThe basidia are 4-spored, and pleurocystidia are absent. The cheilocystidia are 20–30(40) x 4.5–6(9) µm and fusiod with a narrow neck.\n\nThis species is closely related to the subtropical \"Psilocybe aztecorum\" and \"Psilocybe quebecensis\", which also have caps that bleach in color to white when dry.\n\n\"Psilocybe baeocystis\" is solitary to cespitose, and scattered to numerous on ground bark, wood chips, peat moss, decaying conifer mulch, occasionally on lawns, pastures, and rarely in coniferous forests. Often found growing under plants like rhododendrons and rose bushes in mulched garden beds, sometimes growing amongst other \"Psilocybe\" species such as \"Psilocybe stuntzii\" and \"Psilocybe cyanescens\". \"Psilocybe baeocystis\" grows from August through December, and rarely as early as the end of June. \"Psilocybe baeocystis\" is a hemiboreal mushroom, common throughout the Pacific Northwest. It was found in Maine in November 2007 and is reported to have been found in Connecticut also.\n\nPsilocin was first reported in this species in Benedict et al., 1962, and a few years later, Leung and Paul would report the related compound baeocystin, isolated from saprophytic culture, as well as the desmethyl metabolite norbaeocystin. Beug and Bigwood (1981) also reported on the concentrations of these compounds in \"Psilocybe baeocystis\" using reverse-phase HPLC and thin-layer chromatography. Concentration ranges for psychoactive compounds from these studies were reported to be 0.15–0.85% psilocybin, up to 0.59% psilocin, and up to 0.10% baeocystin.\n\nThis mushroom has been placed in the section \"Aztecorum\" by Gaston Guzman; other members of the section include \"Psilocybe aztecorum var. aztecorum\", \"Psilocybe aztecorum var. bonetii\", \"Psilocybe pseudoaztecorum\", and \"Psilocybe quebecensis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5123185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5123185", "title": "Religion in Northern Ireland", "text": "Religion in Northern Ireland\n\nChristianity is the largest religion in Northern Ireland. According to a 2007 Tearfund survey, Northern Ireland was the most religious part of the UK, with 45% regularly attending church.\n\nThe Catholic Church has seen a small growth in adherents, while the other Christian groups have seen a small decrease.\n\nThere are also small Hindu, Sikh, Muslim, Buddhist and Jewish communities. Belfast has a synagogue, a gurdwara, a mosque and two Hindu temples. There is another gurdwara in Derry.\n\nThe 2001 and 2011 Census figures for \"Religion\" (not \"Religion or Religion Brought Up In\") are set out below.\n\nThe religious affiliations in the different districts of Northern Ireland were as follows:\n\nReligions broken down by place of birth in the 2011 census.\n\nThe religious affiliations in the different age bands in the 2011 census were as follows:\n\nChristianity is the main religion in Northern Ireland. The 2011 UK census showed 42.8% Roman Catholic, 21.1% Presbyterian Church, with the Church of Ireland having 16.7% and the Methodist Church 5.0%. Members of other Christian churches comprised 5.8%, 7.9% stated they have no religion or did not state a religion, and members of non-Christian religions were 0.8%.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Ireland is the largest single church, though there is a greater number of Protestants overall. The Church is organised into four provinces though these are not coterminous with the modern political division of Ireland. The seat of the Archbishop of Armagh, the Primacy of Ireland, is St. Patrick's Cathedral, Armagh.\n\nThe Presbyterian Church in Ireland, closely linked to the Church of Scotland in terms of theology and history, is the second-largest church and largest Protestant denomination. It is followed by the Anglican Church of Ireland, which was the state church of Ireland until it was disestablished by the \"Irish Church Act 1869\". In 2002, the much smaller Methodist Church in Ireland signed a covenant for greater co-operation and potential ultimate unity with the Church of Ireland. The Church of Ireland is part of the Anglican Communion.\n\nSmaller, but growing, Protestant denominations such as the Free Presbyterian Church of Ulster, Reformed Presbyterian Church of Ireland amongst Presbyterians and the Open Brethren are located in many places. The Association of Baptist Churches in Ireland and the Assemblies of God Ireland are also organised on an all-Ireland basis, though in the case of the Assemblies of God this was the result of a recent reorganisation.\n\nIn the 2011 census Northern Ireland had substantially more people stating that they were Christian (91.4%) than did England (59.4%), Scotland (53.8%) or Wales (57.6%). The proportion who stated that they had any religion was also higher in Northern Ireland (92.2%) than in England (68.1%), Scotland (56.3%) or Wales (60.3%). In Northern Ireland those who did not state any religion in the 2011 census amounted to 7.9% of the population, lower than in England (31.9%), Scotland (43.7%) or Wales (39.7%). This represented an increase from the 2001 census in those stating no religion of 10.6% in Northern Ireland, lower than the increases in England (54.5%), Scotland (38.1%) or Wales (57.6%).\n\nSecularisation in Northern Ireland has followed different paths within each of the two main communities, being at a more advanced stage within the mainly Protestant community in which it is reflected more often with a formal move away from the churches and by expressing no formal religious attachment, mirroring the pattern in Great Britain, whereas in the mainly Catholic community it is reflected by declining mass attendance but often with retaining a formal Catholic identification, mirroring the pattern in the Republic of Ireland. Those stating that they had no religion in the 2011 census were concentrated in largely Protestant areas, suggesting that they were mostly from a Protestant background.\n\nIn their respective 2011 censuses Northern Ireland had a lower proportion of people stating that they were Christian (82.3%) than the Republic of Ireland (90.4%) and had a higher proportion of people stating that they had no religion or not indicating a religious belief (16.9%) than the Republic of Ireland (7.6%). While in the 2011 census 84.2% of people in the Republic of Ireland identified themselves as Catholic in the 2011 census in Northern Ireland only 40.8% identified themselves as Catholic.\n\nWhile there were a small number of Muslims already living in what became Northern Ireland in 1921, the bulk of Muslims in Northern Ireland today come from families who immigrated during the late 20th century. At the time of the 2001 Census there were 1,943 living in Northern Ireland, though the Belfast Islamic Centre claims that by January 2009, this number had increased to over 4,000. The Muslims in Northern Ireland come from over 40 countries of origin, from Western Europe all the way through to the Far East. This situation is reflected in comparably complex institutional arrangements.\n\nThe earliest recorded Jew living in Northern Ireland was a tailor by the name of Manuel Lightfoot in 1652. The first Jewish congregation in Northern Ireland, Belfast Hebrew Congregation, was founded in 1870. In 2006, there are about 300 Jews living in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Northern Ireland begins after a century of contact between Irishmen and the Bahá'í Faith beyond the island and on the island. The members of the religion elected its first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly in 1949 in Belfast. The Bahá'ís held an international conference in Dublin in 1982 which was described as “…one of the very few occasions when a world event for a faith community has been held in Ireland\". By 1993 there were a dozen assemblies in Northern Ireland. By 2005 Bahá'í sources claim some 300 Bahá'ís across Northern Ireland.\n\nHinduism is a relatively minor religion in Northern Ireland with only around 200 Hindu families in the region. There are, however, three Mandirs in Belfast.\n\nThe Troubles was a period of ethno-political conflict in Northern Ireland which spilled over at various times into Great Britain and the Republic of Ireland. The duration of the Troubles is conventionally dated from approximately 1968 to the signing of the Belfast Agreement in 1998. Violence nonetheless continued beyond this period and still manifests on a small-scale basis.\n\nThe principal issues at stake in the Troubles were the constitutional status of Northern Ireland and the relationship between the mainly-Protestant Unionist and mainly-Catholic Nationalist communities in Northern Ireland. The Troubles had both political and military (or paramilitary) dimensions. Its participants included politicians and political activists on both sides, republican and loyalist paramilitary organisations, the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC), the British Army and the security forces of the Republic of Ireland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36612601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36612601", "title": "Ridwan dynasty", "text": "Ridwan dynasty\n\nThe Ridwan dynasty (also spelled \"Radwan\"; ) was the most prominent pasha family in Palestine, ruling the southwestern districts of the Damascus Eyalet (\"Province of Damascus\") in the 16th and 17th centuries under Ottoman rule. The dynasty was based in Gaza, where its members continuously served as the hereditary \"sanjak-beys\" (district governors) of the sanjak (provincial district) for over a century. Members also ruled different provinces and districts throughout the Ottoman Empire and held additional titles at different times. The Ridwan period in Gaza was considered the city's last golden age.\n\nThe dynasty was founded by Kara Şahin Mustafa Pasha, who served as governor of a number of provinces and district, including Gaza, during his career. However, the dynasty was named after Mustafa's son Ridwan Pasha who served as Gaza's governor in 1570 until he was succeeded in this office by his son Ahmad Pasha ibn Ridwan in 1572. The latter served for 30 years, during which time Gaza became the chief stronghold of the dynasty. The \"sanjaks\" of Jerusalem and Nablus were made part of Ahmad Pasha's domain intermittently throughout his rule. \n\nAfter Ahmad Pasha was reassigned as \"beylerbey\" of Damascus in 1601, his son Hasan 'Arap Pasha inherited Gaza's governorship, occupying the office for 43 years. His rule impoverished Gaza and bankrupted the dynasty. Hasan Pasha's son and successor Husayn Pasha was appointed the office in 1644 and he served until 1672. Under Husayn Pasha's leadership, Gaza became a prosperous, secure and religiously diverse city. He was deposed and executed by the Ottoman authorities in 1663, after which his brother Musa Pasha was appointed to the post, serving the office until 1679. The last Ridwan governor of Gaza was Musa Pasha's son Ahmad Pasha whose governorship ended in 1690.\n\nThe Ridwan dynasty was founded by Kara Shahin Mustafa (later known as \"Mustafa Pasha\"), an ethnic Bosnian, and former \"kapikulu\" (\"slave of the Porte\") of Suleiman the Magnificent. As part of the Ottoman \"devsirme\" system, Mustafa Pasha received his education from the inner service of the palace, gradually being promoted to high-ranking positions in the government. In 1524, after having successively served as the governor of Erzerum and Diyarbekir and then as the personal tutor of Sultan Suleiman's son Shahzade Bayazit, he was temporarily appointed the governorship of Gaza, which was the capital of a \"sanjak\" (\"district\") still maintaining its importance from the previous Mamluk era. By 1560, he had been promoted to the governorship of Egypt. \n\nMustafa Pasha was succeeded as governor of Gaza by his son Ridwan Pasha, who gave the Ridwan dynasty its name. Ridwan had formerly served as the treasurer of Yemen. In 1565, Ridwan Pasha was promoted to \"beylerbey\" (\"governor-general\") of Yemen for two years before returning to rule Gaza for a short period of time in 1567. Meanwhile, in 1566, Mustafa Pasha was deposed by the new sultan Selim II for his closeness to Bayazit, Selim's brother and rival for power. Mustafa Pasha died shortly thereafter. According to historian Jean-Pierre Filiu, Ridwan became governor of Gaza in 1570. By 1571, Ridwan Pasha had been promoted to \"vali\" (\"provincial governor\") of Habesh (Coastal Ethiopia), Basra and Diyarbekir in succession, while Bahram Pasha, the second son of Mustafa Pasha and a high-ranking official in the Ottoman government, became governor of Nablus in the mid-16th-century. After some time Bahram Pasha was promoted to \"beylerbey\" of Damascus and later \"amir al-hajj\" (commander of the \"hajj\"; pl. \"umara al-hajj\"), making him responsible for the Muslim pilgrimage caravan to Mecca.\n\nIn Gaza, Ridwan Pasha was replaced by his son Ahmad Pasha, who ruled for nearly 30 years. At times during his rule, the \"sanjaks\" of Nablus and Jerusalem were attached to Gaza Sanjak. The latter became the family's stronghold and base of power under Ahmad Pasha's leadership. Towards the 17th century, he had the Mamluk-era Qasr al-Basha in Gaza enlarged and transformed into the family's fortress and governor's palace. Ahmad Pasha intermittently served as \"amir al-hajj\", but struggled to gain further promotion by the Ottoman government, having to lobby several Istanbul-based viziers and bureaucrats with large sums of money and other gifts, unlike his predecessors. He was eventually appointed as governor of Damascus in 1601, while his son Hasan \"'Arap\" Pasha subsequently inherited the governorship of Gaza. Ahmad Pasha later died in 1607.\n\nHasan Pasha's nickname \"Arap\" (\"Bedouin\") derived from the Ridwan family's good relations with and reputation for keeping the Bedouin tribes in check. When Hasan was commissioned by Sultan Murad IV to help suppress the long-running rebellion of Fakhr ad-Din II (1623-1635), Hasan's Bedouin units often proved effective in battle. During this period, Hasan Pasha gained the additional governorship of Tripoli, although he was deposed in 1644. His rule impoverished Gaza Sanjak and burdened the Ridwan family with heavy debts. According to the Damascene historian and Hasan's contemporary, Muhammad Amin al-Muhibbi, Hasan Pasha had numerous wives and concubines and fathered 85 children. During Hasan Pasha's lifetime, one of his sons, Husayn Pasha, served as governor of Nablus and Jerusalem as well as \"amir al-hajj\".\n\nAfter Hasan Pasha's 1644 dismissal, Husayn Pasha inherited the governorship of Gaza and administered the district well. Because he was able to guarantee the safety of the main roads and the countryside by securing and maintaining close relations with the local Bedouin tribes, Gaza and other cities in Palestine were able to prosper and develop extensively during Husayn Pasha's reign. The city's importance was elevated to the point where Gaza was considered the \"capital of Palestine\" by the French consul of Sidon, Chevalier d'Arvieux. Husayn Pasha also developed friendly relationships with the city's Christian and Jewish communities, allowing the former to construct new churches and restore existing ones. Husayn Pasha appointed his son Ibrahim as governor of Jerusalem, but Ibrahim died in a 1661 military expedition against the Druze clans of Lebanon.\n\nIn 1663, Husayn Pasha was sent on an expedition to assist the governor of Damascus in quelling a Bedouin rebellion, but failed and left the battle disgraced. After petitions by his enemies in the Ottoman government, he was summoned to Istanbul where he was imprisoned and killed shortly afterward. According to historian Dror Ze'evi, the Ottoman state become wary of the growing power of the Ridwans and believed that eliminating Husayn Pasha would enable them to \"destroy the remnants of the extended dynasty.\" The imperial authorities were also uncomfortable with Husayn Pasha's ties to the French consul and the local Christians. According to Filiu, Husayn's elimination was a result of this \"special relationship\". \n\nMusa Pasha succeeded his brother Husayn Pasha as governor of Gaza and central Palestine, but the length of his tenure is not exactly known, although a document from Jerusalem in 1670 listed him as governor. According to historian Jean-Pierre Filiu, Musa Pasha's rule ended in 1679. Musa discontinued Husayn's liberal policies with non-Muslims and was more cautious of Ottoman wishes during his rule. Ahmad Pasha ibn Musa succeeded his father and was the last Ridwan governor of Gaza, serving until 1690. Following the end of his rule, the Ridwan dynasty was stripped of its hereditary governorship and afterward officials appointed by the Ottoman government came to rule Gaza, which gradually declined in importance. This coincided with a general withdrawal of support for local dynasties from the Sublime Porte (Ottoman imperial government). The modern-day descendants of the Ridwan dynasty are known in Gaza as \"Dar al-Basha\" or \"House of the Pashas\".\n\nThe Ridwan family modeled their dynasty on the imperial Ottoman household and during military engagements they would carry battle standards representing their dynasty and bring marching bands. The Ridwan family saw themselves as the leaders of the wider region and the patrons of other ruling families. Farrukh Pasha, the Circassian governor of Jerusalem and founder of the prominent Farrukh dynasty, was a former \"mamluk\" (slave soldier) of Bahram Pasha. The Farrukh dynasty ruled the Nablus Sanjak up until the mid-17th century. Kiwan, another \"mamluk\" of the Ridwan dynasty, became a major aide to the governor of Damascus before his son gained the governorship and the office of \"amir al-hajj\" in the 1670s. \n\nIt is not known whether the Ridwan family members preferred to use Arabic or Turkish to communicate with each other and the mostly Arabic-speaking people living in their districts. As Ottoman officials, they spoke Turkish well, but it is also apparent that they were well-versed in Arabic language and customs, due to the command of Arabic literature possessed by the various Ridwan governors and the close ties they maintained with the local elites, such as the Arab Turabay family, and the Bedouin tribes. With the exception of imperial or provincial decrees, court records in the \"sanjaks\" of Gaza, Nablus, Jerusalem and Lajjun, which the Ridwans and their allies often ruled, were recorded in Arabic, although the \"qadi\" was typically an imperial Turkish speaker and thus, Turkish-language records were not required. The intermarriage and socio-political ties that the Ridwans maintained with the Turabays and the Circassian Farrukhs created a \"new Bedouin-Ottoman hybrid culture\" that was \"evident in court life, dress and probably language as well\", according to historian Dror Ze'evi.\n\nBetween the 16th and 17th centuries, three families controlled the \"sanjaks\" that constituted the region of Palestine: the Ridwans presided over Gaza, while the Farrukhs and Turabays presided over Nablus and Lajjun, respectively. Because of common interests and prior military slave relationships, the three families forged close ties throughout the course of their rule. The Ridwans were the dominant faction in this emerging unified dynasty. Evidence of intermarriage between the families is indicated by Ottoman registers. For example, the granddaughter of Ahmad ibn Turabay, the founder of the Turabay dynasty, was the mother of Governor Assaf Farrukh Pasha. Assaf's wife was Shaqra Khatun, a daughter of Governor Husayn Pasha. After the deaths of Assaf Pasha and Shaqra, two of their sons, Muhammad Bey and Ali Bey, entered the custody of Husayn's brother, Governor Musa Pasha. A daughter of Hasan \"Arap\" Pasha, sister to Musa and Husayn, was married to Assaf's brother Ali Farrukh. Sharing common property also helped sustain the families' unity. \n\nThe Ridwan-Farrukh-Turabay alliance treated the territories of Palestine and, at times, Transjordan, as hereditary fiefdoms. During troublesome periods, the three families would unite their forces to confront challenges from rebels or local rivals. The military relationship between them originated with the protection of the annual \"hajj\" caravan. When a particular governor was assigned the role of \"amir al-hajj\", it would require him to depart from his \"sanjak\" for extended time periods. In order to protect their districts from Bedouin raids, tax evasion and personal property damage, departing governors normally entrusted their authority with the rulers of the neighboring \"sanjak\". For example, in 1589, Ridwan Pasha requested Assaf ibn Turabay to temporarily replace him as governor of Damascus, beginning a tradition that lasted well into the 17th century.\n\nThe mutual trust between the families developed into a firm military alliance in the early 17th century as a result of the increasing strength of Fakhr-al-Din II in Ottoman Syria. Backed by the Medici Grand Duke of Tuscany, Fakhr-al-Din briefly repaired his relations with the Ottoman government and in 1622 gained control of the Safad and Ajlun \"sanjaks\", became governor of Nablus and appointed \"mutasallim\" (tax collector) of Gaza. His forces proceeded to head towards Jerusalem, traversing Palestine's coastal plain. Fakhr al-Din's moves threatened the rule of the three families who, after encouragement from the Sublime Porte in Istanbul, formed a coalition to stop his advance. In 1623, the armies of Hasan \"Arap\" Pasha, Muhammad ibn Farrukh and Ahmad ibn Turabay successfully routed Fakhr al-Din's army at the Awja River, forcing him to withdraw from Palestine.\n\nThroughout their reign, the Ridwan dynasty accumulated vast wealth in Gaza, including agricultural lands and several real estate properties. The family allocated a large part of that wealth to \"awqaf\" (religious trusts), which they used to fund the construction and maintenance of various public buildings. Some members of the dynasty were buried in Maqbarat al-Ridwan (Ridwan Family Graveyard) located just south of the Great Mosque of Gaza. As of 2008, the cemetery contained a few marble graves.\n\nThe family restored the minarets of two mosques in the Shuja'iyya quarter of Gaza, while Musa Pasha had the minaret of the Great Mosque of Gaza rebuilt. A mosque was also constructed within the confines of the Qasr al-Basha fortress, which later came to be known as the Ridwan Castle in light of its function as the Ridwans' residence (\"ad-Dabawiyya\"). The fortress itself was outfitted with additional defenses, including arrow slits and narrow openings, which were extended to employ the use of cannon. During Ridwan rule, the Qaysariyyah Market in Gaza's al-Daraj quarter was reconstructed as was the Hamam al-Sammara bathhouse and the former Khan az-Zayt caravansary. Bahram Pasha ordered the construction of the main \"sabil\" (\"fountain\") in Gaza in the mid-16th-century.\n\nAt the Temple Mount (\"Haram al-Sharif\") in Jerusalem, Ahmad Pasha ibn Ridwan had a \"khalwa\", known as the Mamluk Khalwa, built for local Sufis headed by al-Ghazi Abu al-Sa'ud, and for the study of Islamic jurisprudence in 1601. The architect of the \"khalwa\" was Abd al-Muhsin ibn Nimr, who worked Ahmad Pasha's other projects in Jerusalem. Ahmad Pasha established a \"waqf\" to fund Abu al-Sa'ud and the \"khalwa's\" upkeep and management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5260621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5260621", "title": "Roger Stronstad", "text": "Roger Stronstad\n\nDr. Roger J. Stronstad is a Canadian Pentecostal Bible scholar and theologian. He is an Associate Professor in Bible and Theology at Summit Pacific College (formerly Western Pentecostal Bible College) in Abbotsford, British Columbia.He has also published six books.\n\nIn \"The Charismatic Theology of St. Luke\" (1984), he argues for a Pentecostal interpretation of Luke-Acts. He contends that Luke believed the gift of the Spirit was vocational, rather than soteriological or ethical, i.e. the Holy Spirit was given to empower them to be witnesses, rather than to bring them salvation. This book has been translated in French (La théologie charismatique de St Luc).\n\nIn \"Spirit, Scripture and Theology\" (1995), Stronstad surveys Pentecostal hermeneutics (methods of biblical interpretation), examining the views of Gordon D. Fee, Howard M. Ervin and William H. Menzies. Again he returns to Luke-Acts to formulate his own hermeneutical approach.\n\nIn \"The Prophethood of All Believers\" (1999), he builds on his interpretation of Luke-Acts, focusing on the Holy Spirit as the giver of prophetic gifts to the Church.\n\nHe is also co-editor (with French L. Arrington and Timothy Jenney) of the \"Life in the Spirit New Testament Commentary\" (2003).\n"}
{"id": "22974022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22974022", "title": "Scientology in France", "text": "Scientology in France\n\nThe Church of Scientology of France is organized as a group of secular nonprofit organizations. France is a secular state, which protects the rights of citizens to practice their religion. Although citizens can form religious associations based on the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State, which grants certain benefits, the Church of Scientology of France is instead organized into secular associations based on a 1901 law regarding nonprofit groups.\n\nA 1995 parliamentary report lists Scientology as a cult, which has since been under the watch of MIVILUDES and its predecessors (\"Observatoire interministériel sur les sectes\" and \"interministérielle de lutte contre les sectes\"). In its 2006 report MIVILUDES classified Scientology as a dangerous cult.\n\nSeven officials from the Church of Scientology in France have been convicted of crimes such as embezzlement, and contribution to suicide.\n\nScientology was founded in 1952 by science fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard in the United States. It subsequently spread to other countries.\n\nIn 1978, L. Ron Hubbard was convicted \"in absentia\" by French authorities of engaging in fraud, fined 35,000 French Francs and sentenced to four years in prison. The head of the French Church of Scientology was convicted at the same trial and given a suspended one-year prison sentence.\n\nSince 1995, some French authorities have classified the Church of Scientology as a \"secte\" (cult) as seen in the report of the National Assembly of France. On this basis, a hostile stance is generally taken against the organization. A 1999 government inquiry committee reporting on the financial aspect of cults recommended dissolving the Church of Scientology because of swindling, complicity of swindling, abuse of trust, and other nefarious activities. A government report in 2000 categorized the church as an \"absolute cult\" and recommended that all its activities be prohibited. The keeping of files containing personal information on all its members (and other practices), are seen to qualify the Church as a totalitarian cult, moreover \"extremely dangerous\". The report rejected U.S. criticism of the French government's hostility towards Scientology, saying that Washington's protection of cults was \"exorbitant\".\n\nIn 2005 the municipal government of Paris passed an official resolution so that unlike in Marseille, celebrity Scientologist Tom Cruise would never be made an honorary citizen, specifically because of his affiliation with Scientology.\n\nThe 2006 riots in France came in the midst of a parliamentary commission in charge of examining the influence of cults, particularly on youth, which started its hearings on July 12, 2006 and was scheduled to be completed in December that year. The government \"cultic watchdog\" agency MIVILUDES subsequently warned that cults were infiltrating the suburbs, increasingly offering aid as a cover for their activities, notably so in a Church of Scientology's communique that \"appeared to be taking the credit for calming the situation in one of the riot-hit suburbs.\" (Note: In the English speaking world, the word \"cult\" often carries derogatory connotations, but in some European languages, \"cult\" is used as the word \"religion\" is used in English, sometimes causing confusion for English-speakers reading material translated from other languages. The word \"cult\" has always been controversial because it is (in a pejorative sense) considered a subjective term, used as an \"ad hominem\" attack against groups with differing doctrines or practices, which lacks a clear or consistent definition.)\n\nWhile he was Finance Minister, Nicolas Sarkozy received Tom Cruise in Paris in 2004. The anti-cult Roger Ikor centre's website wrote that President Sarkozy was preparing to change the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and State (that had been forbidding the state to finance any cult or religion), to allow cults to receive money from the state. That modification did not take place.\n\nOn November 22, 1996, the leader of the Lyon Church of Scientology, Jean-Jacques Mazier, was convicted of fraud and involuntary homicide and sentenced to eighteen months in prison for his role in the death of a member who committed suicide after going deeply into debt to pay for Scientology auditing sessions. Fourteen others were convicted of fraud as well.\n\nKaja Bordevich Ballo, a Norwegian student in Nice, committed suicide hours after hearing the results of a negative Scientology personality test. In April 2008, \"Aftenposten\" noted that the French police were investigating connections between Scientology and Ballo's death. The investigation was being headed by a judge in France. Prosecutors stated in December 2008 that they could not determine a direct link between the Scientology personality test and Ballo's death. The family decided not to file a civil lawsuit, but the case received attention both in France, and in Norway where several family members were politicians, and where suicides are generally not discussed in mass media.\n\nOn September 8, 2008, Judge Jean-Christophe Hullin ruled that Scientologists' Celebrity Center, bookstore, and seven Church leaders should be tried for fraud and \"illegally practicing as pharmacists\". The ruling is in regards to a complaint made in 1998 by a woman who said she was enrolled into the Church of Scientology by a group she met outside a metro station. The woman said she paid 140,000 francs for illegally prescribed drugs, an e-meter, and books. The trial was due to begin on 25 May 2009. It was believed that if the French Scientology organization lost the case, it could end up being dissolved. On 16 June 2009 current.com incorrectly reported that several of the church's leading members, including its leader Xavier Delamare, had been arrested and that the church had been banned from practicing in France. As it turned out, the website had actually been referencing an outdated BBC news article from November 1999. In September 2009 it was reported that the French Scientology organization was no longer at risk of dissolution as a result of the fraud trial, due to a very opportune and unexplained change in French legislation. That legislation change has since been reversed.\n\nOn November 24, 2015, the Court of Appeal of Paris had condemned the French State to pay 35,000 euros to the Spiritual Association of the Church of Scientology-Celebrity Center and four of its members for miscarriage of justice and gross negligence.\nThe Scientology Association had argued before the appeal judge that the fact that the prosecution had demanded its dissolution in a trial in 2009 was not only illegal, but constituted an offence for which the State should be condemned. The Paris Court of Appeal had upheld it by saying: \"... that this characteristic deficiency of the public prosecutor's office, even if the court, making an exact application of the law in force did not pronounce the dissolution of the Spiritual Association of the Church of Scientology Celebrity Center, characterizes the deficiency of the public service of justice to fulfil the mission of which it is invested.\"\nThe state had also been found guilty of miscarriage of justice for violating the right of the Association and some of its members to receive justice within a reasonable delay.\nDissatisfied with the outcome, it was this decision which the State had intended to challenge before the Court of Cassation. The latter issued its decision in a judgment of 22 March 2017 confirming in all respects the decision of the Court of Appeal and holding that the State was inadmissible to challenge its content.\nThis is the second decision of the French Court of Cassation in favour of the Church of Scientology since the beginning of the year. Indeed, on January 12, the highest judicial body in the country had already confirmed the condemnation of the association UNADFI (Union of Associations of Defense of the Families and the Individual) that had illegally and in bad faith presented itself as a victim in the same case (2009), a criminal proceeding which was thus marked by a \"proven deficiency of the public prosecutor's office\" and a single pretended victim who \"acted in bad faith and abused its right to act in justice\".\nThe Scientology religion has been practiced in France since the 1950s, and its churches have tens of thousands of faithful in the hexagon and millions in the world. If France does not recognize or subsidize any religion, it guarantees their free exercise. Around France, the Scientology religion is a recognized religion in the United Kingdom, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Holland, Sweden, by the German courts, etc., and the Church's humanitarian programs affect dozens of millions of people in the world every year.\n\nOn 27 October 2009, the Church of Scientology was convicted of defrauding recruits out of their savings. One woman claimed she lost more than €20,000 in the 1990s. Judges ordered the Scientology Celebrity Center and bookshop to pay a €600,000 (US$888,000) fine; earlier plans by the prosecution to force the Church to disband completely could not proceed. The law supporting complete dissolution was temporarily inadmissible, due to a rework of the penal code. The dissolution law was not reinstated until after the case had begun, and therefore could not be used. Judges also stated that disbanding the church would push it underground, where it could not be monitored. In his indictment, investigating Judge Jean-Christophe Hullin criticized what he called the Scientologists' \"obsession\" with financial gain and practices he said were aimed at plunging members into a \"state of subjection\".\n\nSeven leading Scientologists were fined, including the head of Scientology in France, Alain Rosenberg. Rosenberg received a two-year suspended jail sentence combined with a €30,000 fine. Four of the leaders received suspended sentences ranging from ten months to two years, while the other two were fined minor amounts. Agnès Bron, a church spokesperson, likened the fines to, \"an Inquisition for modern times\". According to Catherine Picard, head of the French Association of Victims of Cults, the fining might encourage more \"unhappy Scientologist recruits\" to bring out their concerns. She also stated that, \"Scientology can no longer hide behind freedom of conscience.\"\n\nThe Scientology Celebrity Center spokesman, Éric Roux, stated that, \"There is an attitude toward religious minorities in general ... that is pretty catastrophic\". In relation to the government's official cult monitoring mission (agency) MIVILUDES, Roux claimed that \"we have a government that pushes for hate against religious minorities\". However, what he and others contested was \"the fraud that is committed against families and individuals\".\n\nThe Church of Scientology stated that they would appeal, with U.S. Church spokesman Tommy Davis claim the proceedings as being a \"heresy trial\" and claims that \"the fines will get thrown out on appeal. We've had similar cases before and in other countries. If it has to go to the court of human rights we're confident we will win there\". Davis claims that the proceedings were \"in total violation of the European Convention on Human Rights and French constitutional guarantees on freedom\". According to his view, \"France is pretty much in the Dark Ages on the subject of religious tolerance ... We'll prevail as we have repeatedly in situations approximating this one\".\n\nAgnes Bron, a French official for the organisation, stated that \"For each person who complains we have 100,000 ready to say nothing but good things about scientology.\" A \" Rolling Stone\" article from 2009 reported that Scientology has about 100,000 to 200,000 adherents worldwide.\n\nJudges also said that they would ensure a paid posting would be placed in multiple publications outside France (including \"Time\" magazine and the \"International Herald Tribune\") to ensure the news would spread beyond France; according to Olivier Morice, a lawyer for the civil plaintiffs, \"The court told the Scientologists, in essence, to be very, very careful, because if you continue to use the same methods of harassment, you won't escape next time\". Morice added that, \"It’s the first time in France that the entity of the Church of Scientology is condemned for fraud as an organized gang\". Georges Fenech, the head of MIVILUDES, said that the court \"condemned [the French branch of Scientology] as an entity ... due to its fraudulent way of operating ... [If] they begin swindling again, they can be subject to dissolution in the future\". Fenech added that, \"[this] is a historical turning point for the fight against cult abuses\", and that, while members are \"allowed to continue their activity ... a seed has been planted\".\n\nIn an interview on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation current affairs radio program \"The Current\" with Hana Gartner, former high-ranking Scientology official Mark Rathbun commented that the decision to convict the Church of Scientology of fraud in France would not have a significant impact on the organization. \"On the France thing I don't think that's going to have any lasting impact, simply because they got a nine hundred thousand dollar fine I think - which is like chump change to them. They've got literally nearly a billion dollars set aside in a war chest,\" said Rathbun.\n\nAs of 2009, members of the church are also being sued for fraud and practicing pharmacology without a license.\n\nThe French government does not keep statistics on religion but in 1999 the Church itself claimed that it had 40,000 adherents in France. The French newspaper Le Figaro reckons around 5000 adherents in France in 2008.\n\nThe relationship between the Church of Scientology and the law in France is the subject of \"Is Scientology Above the Law?\" The documentary investigates the suspicious circumstances surrounding a fraud probe into sixteen members of the church of Scientology. The role of the church is questioned in connection with the disappearance of files critical to the case; lawyers for the prosecution argue that the missing evidence was deliberately taken by members of Scientology working within and effectively undermining the legal system to protect the reputation of the church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11469972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11469972", "title": "Sethi", "text": "Sethi\n\nSethi (), is a Punjabi Khatri surname found in North India and to a little extent in Pakistan. It derives from the Sanskrit word \"shreshthi\", which was used as a title for best among all or another guild or person who is nonpareil in war/trade. It is common among Jains, Rajput and Khatri castes and are considered as most furious fighters of Indian subcontinent.In Mughal era many of them have established business all over the country as they use to be war lords for Mughals and later with arrival of British.\n\nNotable people with this surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "572842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=572842", "title": "Telesto (mythology)", "text": "Telesto (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Telesto or Telestho ( ; English translation: \"success\") was an Oceanid, one of the 3,000 daughters of Titans Oceanus and Tethys.\n\nHesiod describes her as \"wearing a yellow \"peplos\"\".\n\nTelesto was the personification of the divine blessing or success.\n\nTelesto, a moon of Saturn, discovered in 1980 by Reitsema, Smith, Larson, and Fountain, is named for her.\n"}
{"id": "50577190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50577190", "title": "The Mores of the Russian Clergy", "text": "The Mores of the Russian Clergy\n\nThe Mores of the Russian Clergy () is a book by Soviet historian of religion and advocate of atheism Yefim Grekulov, originally published in 1928.\n\nPublication of the book in 2011 contains the following chapters:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4321241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4321241", "title": "Theocentricism", "text": "Theocentricism\n\nTheocentricism is the belief that God is the central aspect to our existence, as opposed to anthropocentrism or existentialism. In this view, meaning and value of actions done to people or the environment are attributed to God. The tenets of theocentrism, such as humility, respect, moderations, selflessness, and mindfulness, can lend themselves towards a form of environmentalism. In modern theology, theocentricism is often linked with stewardship and environmental ethics or Creation care. It is the belief that human beings should look after the world as guardians and therefore in the way God wants them to. Humans should be considerate to all, from animals to plants to humans themselves. It maintains that human beings are merely here for a short time and should be looking after the world for future generations. \n\nIn Christian theology, theocentricism has sometimes been used to describe theologies that focus on God the Father, as opposed to those that focus on Christ (Christocentric) or the Holy Spirit (Pneumocentric). Theocentrism was a key element of the Christology of Saint Augustine. This view is resisted among some theologians on the grounds that it poses a challenge to trinity. One of these theologians is Carl Baaten who said, \"If one can speak of God who is really God apart from Christ, there is indeed no reason for the doctrine of the Trinity. Some kind of Unitarianism will do the job.\" Paul F. Knitter, in his defense as a Theocentric Christian, said it depends on how the unity between God and Jesus Christ within trinity is seen. He says that, \"we cannot so neatly or exclusively affirm that the Logos/Christ is Jesus. The 'incarnating' activity of the Logos is actualized in but not restricted to Jesus. The God manifested in and as Jesus of Nazareth is the only true God\".\n\nHowever, the term can be confusing because \"theocentrism\" can also refer to a theology that does not center on any one person of the Trinity, but rather emphases the entire Godhead as a whole. Theologies that center on the Father are sometimes referred to as \"paterocentric\" instead.\n\nIt is popular with Christianity, Judaism and Islam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44793967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44793967", "title": "Vishwa Shanti Stupa", "text": "Vishwa Shanti Stupa\n\nVishwa Shanti Stupa (; in Wardha district, Maharashtra, near Gitai Mandir, is a large stupa of white color. Statues of the Buddha are mounted on stupa in four directions. It also has a small Japanese Buddhist temple with a large park. There is a temple near the stupa where prayers are done for universal peace. The initial pagoda reached completion in 1969. New initiatives in 1993 resulted in the present form. It is one of around 80 Peace Pagodas which have been built around the world by the neo-Buddhist organisation Nipponzan Myohoji. These were a dream of Fujii Nichidatsu, inspired by Mohandas K. Gandhi, as a reaction to the atomic bombing of Japan, the first, and more well known Vishwa Shanti stupa, being built on Ratnagiri Hill in Rajgir.\n"}
{"id": "3032432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3032432", "title": "Vladimir Baranov-Rossine", "text": "Vladimir Baranov-Rossine\n\nWladimir Davidovich Baranoff-Rossine () (1888–1944) was a Ukrainian, Russian and French painter of Jewish origin, avant-garde artist (Cubo-Futurism), and inventor.\n\nWladimir Baranoff-Rossine was born in Kherson, Russian Empire (present day Ukraine) under the name Shulim Wolf Leib Baranov.\n\nIn 1902 he studied at the School of the Society for the Furthering of the Arts in St. Petersburg. From 1903 to 1907 he attended the Imperial Academy of Arts in St. Petersburg.\n\nIn 1908 he exhibited with the group Zveno (The Link) in Kiev organized by the artist David Burliuk and his brother Wladimir Burliuk.\n\nIn 1910 he moved to Paris, where until 1914 he was a resident in the artist's colony La Ruche together with Alexander Archipenko, Sonia Delaunay-Terk, Nathan Altman and others. He exhibited regularly in Paris after 1911.\n\nHe returned to Russia in 1914. In 1916 he had a solo exhibition in Oslo. In 1918 he had exhibits with the union of artists \"Mir Iskusstva\" (World of Art) in Petrograd (St.Petersburg). In the same year he had an exhibition with the group \"Jewish Society for the Furthering of the Arts\" in Moscow, together with Nathan Altman, El Lissitzky and David Shterenberg. He participated at the \"First State Free Art Exhibition\" in Petrograd in 1919.\n\nIn 1922 Baranoff-Rossine was the teacher at the Higher Artistic-Technical Workshops (VKhUTEMAS) in Moscow.\n\nIn 1924 he had the first presentation of his optophonic piano during a performance at the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow - a synaesthetic instrument that was capable of creating sounds and coloured lights, patterns and textures simultaneously.\n\nIn 1925 he emigrated to France.\n\nContinuously experimenting, Baranoff-Rossine applied the art of colour to military art with the technique of camouflage or the Cameleon process and this was marketed with Robert Delaunay. Baranov-Rossine is credited as an author of pointillist or dynamic military camouflage. He also invented a \"photochromometer\" that allowed the determination of the qualities of precious stones. In another field, he perfected a machine that made, sterlized and distributed fizzy drinks, the \"Multiperco\", and this received several technical awards at the time.\n\nDuring the German occupation Baranoff-Rossine was deported to a German concentration camp and murdered there by the Nazis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1329692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1329692", "title": "Vårt Land (Norwegian newspaper)", "text": "Vårt Land (Norwegian newspaper)\n\nVårt Land (which literally means \"Our Country\" in Norwegian) is a daily newspaper published in Oslo. It has a nationwide target audience. Its average daily circulation in 2007 was 27.146, making it Norway's 23rd largest newspaper.\n\nThe founding meeting for \"Vårt Land\" was summoned on 28 September 1944, but the first edition was not published until 31 August 1945, with Bjarne Høye as the general editor and John Nome responsible for \"spiritual and church-related matters.\" The newspaper was initially published as a section in \"Morgenbladet\", was subsequently issued as a standalone broadsheet paper, and in 1968 went to a tabloid format. It is owned by Mentor Medier (former Mediehuset Vårt Land), which also owns several related media properties. \"Vårt Land\" includes editorial material written in both Bokmål and Nynorsk. The offices of the newspaper have moved many times. In 1983 the newspaper moved its offices to Tveita in Oslo and it was one of the first Norwegian newspapers to use digital technology daily. It is now based in downtown Oslo.\n\nThe acting chief editor is Alf Gjøsund. \"Vårt Land\" has been published on the internet since 1996. Today, \"Vårt Land\" is not only a newspaper, but a part of a media house called Mentor Medier (former Mediehuset Vårt Land).\n\n\"Vårt Land\" is an opinion paper. It has a moderate Christian stance in religious matters and a social-liberal leaning in political matters.\n\nCirculation grew through the years and peaked at about 30,000 in the beginning of the 1950s. It sank to 18,500 in 1972. It has grown modestly since then, but has recently seen some decrease. The newspaper is determined to invest in future growth.\n\nNumbers from the Norwegian Media Businesses' Association, Mediebedriftenes Landsforening.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40326339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40326339", "title": "W. H. McLeod", "text": "W. H. McLeod\n\nWilliam Hewat \"Hew\" McLeod (2 August 1932 – 20 July 2009) was a New Zealand scholar who wrote about Sikh history and culture. He produced many books and essays on Sikh identity, Sikh history and Sikh theology. His work frequently was a source of controversy.\n\nMcLeod was born and raised in a farming family near Feilding, in New Zealand's North Island. He met Margaret Wylie in Dunedin during his university studies, and they were married in May 1955. They had four children.\n\nMcLeod was educated at Nelson College from 1946 to 1950, and then at the University of Otago, Dunedin, where he earned a BA and then an MA in history, graduating in 1954. He then began theological studies and in 1958 joined the New Zealand Presbyterian church's mission to Punjab, India. At Kharar, in Punjab, he learned the local languages (Hindi and Punjabi) and taught English at the Christian Boys secondary school.\n\nLater, he completed a PhD at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London in 1965.\n\nIn 1990 he was awarded a DLit by the University of London, and he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of New Zealand in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "41749102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41749102", "title": "Yao folk religion", "text": "Yao folk religion\n\nYao folk religion is the ethnic religion of the Yao people, a non-Sinitic ethnic group who reside in the Guangxi, Hunan and surrounding provinces of China. Their religion is profoundly intermingled with Taoism since the 13th century, so much that it is frequently defined as Yao Taoism (瑶族道教 \"Yáozú Dàojiào\"). In the 1980s it was found that the Yao clearly identified with the Chinese-language Taoist theological literature, seen as a prestigious statute of culture (文化 \"wénhuà\").\n\nYao folk religion was described by a Chinese scholar of the half of the 20th century as an example of deep \"Taoisation\" (道教化 \"Dàojiàohuà\"). Yao core theology and cosmology is Taoist; they worship the deities of canonical Taoism (above all the Three Pure Ones) as the principal deities, while lesser gods are those who pertain to their own indigenous pre-Taoisation religion.\n\nThe reason of this tight identification of Yao religion and identity with Taoism is that in Yao society every male adult is initiated as a Taoist, and Yao Taoism is therefore a communal religion; this is in sharp contrast to Chinese Taoism, which is an order of priests disembedded from the common Chinese folk religion. A shared sense of Yao identity is based additionally on tracing their descent from the mythical ancestor Panhu.\n\nYao Taoism has been seen as representing a conservative form of religious practice, exhibiting parallels with the communitarian Taoism that flourished with the earliest Taoist movements in China proper and the collective fasts of medieval China. although the Yao are speakers of non-Sinitic Mienic languages, their Taoist liturgical tradition is in Chinese language and writing.\n\nThe strong identity of Yao society as a Taoist Church, and their high literacy, are seen as the factors of Southeast Asian Yaos' proud resistance to Christian missionary penetration of their communities in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nIn Yao religion all adult males are initiated to some degree into the Taoist clergy. The \"tsow say ong\" are high priests who perform rites for the higher gods of the pantheon (\"above the sky\") and officiate funerals. The Yao folk religion otherwise retains a class of lesser priests or shamans, the \"sip mien\", who perform rituals for the lesser gods (\"under the sky\").\n\nThere are four levels of initiation into the Yao Taoist church, they are called: \"hanging the lamps\" (\"kwa-tang\"), \"ordination of the master\" (\"tou-sai\"), after which ordinates are given a sigil and a certificate to perform a variety of rites, and the two additional levels of \"adding duties\" (\"chia-tse\") and \"enfeoffing liturgies\" (\"pwang-ko\").\n\nThe \"Sai nzung sou\" is the book of ceremonies for inviting the \"mienv zoux ziouv\", good spirits who protect the location. The \"mienv morh\" are instead angry spirits who cause sickness and tragedy.\n\nThe \"mienv baaih\" is the Yao household altar of the gods, in a place easily visible from the main door. Its aim is welcoming the spirits (\"mienv\"). The \"mienv kuv\" is a tablet with the names of the ancestors of the family placed upon the altar; another custom is the use of pictures of the ancestors instead of the tablets.\n\nAfter the death of a person, the priests perform the \"zoux caeqv\", a ceremony to deliver the person's body from sin. Then the priest perform a water ritual, the \"zoux sin\", for purifying the person's dead body from evil spirits. Subsequently, the priest performs the \"doh dangh caeqv jaiv\", a ceremony to purify the soul of the dead person from the influence of evil spirits.\n\nThe \"zoux sin-seix\" is an ending ritual to give the spirit a peaceful after-life and happiness in the new generation to come, since Yao Taoists believe in the \"hoz seix\" or reincarnation. Other practices involve spirit money and sacrifice.\n\n\n"}
