{"id": "51125080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51125080", "title": "2016 All Nigerian Editors Conference", "text": "2016 All Nigerian Editors Conference\n\nThe 2016 All Nigerian Editors Conference was the 12th annual edition of the All Nigerian Editors Conference (ANEC), the largest gathering of professional editors, organized by the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE). ANEC 2016 focused primarily on agriculture, as a counterfoil to the dwindling receipts from crude oil. The event, described as \"a watering hole of ideas that have shaped government policies and programmes over the years\" was hosted by Port Harcourt, Rivers State's capital. The opening took place on 3 August 2016 at the Hotel Presidential in the city, and the conference closed officially on 7 August 2016.\n\nEach year, the conference follows a specific theme. The theme for the year 2016 was \"Economic Diversification: Agriculture as Option for a Prosperous Nigeria\".\n\nBoth local and foreign speakers including practicing farmers, agribusiness financiers and policy-makers as well as editors from organizations such as West African Editors Forum (WAEF), The African Editors' Forum (TAEF), World Editors Forum (WEF) and the World Association of Newspapers (WAN) attended the event. \n\nFormer Governor of Delta State, Emmanuel Uduaghan was invited as the special guest of honour in recognition of his role in utilizing agriculture and non-oil resources as alternative to crude oil while in office.\n\nThe conference concluded on 7 August 2016 with a firm endorsement of agriculture as \"the most viable option to adopt to revive the nation’s economy, create employment for the army of unemployed youths, and usher in prosperity for the country and its peoples\". Governor of Rivers State, Ezenwo Nyesom Wike received commendations for his achievements in the areas of security and infrastructural development.\n\n"}
{"id": "77976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77976", "title": "464 BC", "text": "464 BC\n\nYear 464 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Albinus and Fusus (or, less frequently, year 290 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 464 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\n"}
{"id": "51361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51361", "title": "480 BC", "text": "480 BC\n\nYear 480 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Vibulanus and Cincinnatus (or, less frequently, year 274 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 480 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59326", "title": "488 BC", "text": "488 BC\n\nYear 488 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Rutilus and Furius (or, less frequently, year 266 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 488 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n\n</onlyinclude>\n"}
{"id": "1527087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1527087", "title": "698 BC", "text": "698 BC\n\nThe year 698 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 56 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 698 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25079146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25079146", "title": "9th International Architecture Exhibition", "text": "9th International Architecture Exhibition\n\nThe 9th International Architecture Exhibition at the 2004 Venice Biennale of Architecture was titled METAMORPH. It lasted from September 12 to November 7 and was directed by Kurt W. Forster. The exhibition attracted over 115,000 visitors.\n\nThe awards went to:\n\n\nUnited States Pavilion: \"Transcending Type\".\nFeaturing six U.S. architecture firms in the vanguard of contemporary design. Each explore new forms and uses for iconic modern building types. Curated by Architectural Record and Christian Ditlev Bruun.\n"}
{"id": "38786936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38786936", "title": "Alone yet Not Alone", "text": "Alone yet Not Alone\n\nAlone yet Not Alone is a 2013 American historical adventure drama film directed by Ray Bengston and co-directed by George D. Escobar (\"Advent Film Group\"), starring Kelly Greyson, Jenn Gotzon, and Clay Walker. The film gets its title from the German hymn \"Allein, und doch nicht ganz allein\" which the Leininger family frequently sang together, and is based on Tracy Leininger Craven's novel of the same name and the true story of Barbara and Regina Leininger, who were forcibly taken from their Pennsylvanian German immigrant family's home by the Delaware Indians in the 1755 Penn's Creek Massacre during the French and Indian War. \n\nThe film is frequently labeled as a Christian movie. \"Alone yet Not Alone\" also received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Original Song in 2013 for its title song, \"Alone yet Not Alone\", though the nomination was rescinded two weeks later.\n\nDuring the French and Indian War, a German family celebrates their harvest in the United States on a plantation of their own when meanwhile, the British Army is coping with life when the Indians, willingly offering to join the French, are excused by General Braddock. General Braddock firmly states that \"no savage shall ever inherit the land\", causing the Indians to join forces with the French instead. \n\nMeanwhile, the German family is made up of Barbara, Regina, John, Fritz, and Christian, and Papa and Mama Leininger. They are all enjoying their lives when one day, the Indians start making advances towards their home, suspecting a raid. After two of the brothers and Mama Leininger depart their home for safety, the remaining four Leiningers are attacked by two Indians. The two men, including Papa, are killed and Barbara and Regina are kidnapped by the Indians. In the meantime, at the Governor's Mansion in Philadelphia, Captain Armstrong informs the Governor of savage Indian-related murders and scalps. However, the Governor quickly dismisses it because of his continual stress. However, in the midst, Barbara attempts to escape by riding a horse, but is struck by a tree branch and again captured and threatened to execution. Still, the Governor refuses Captain Armstrong and Benjamin Franklin with their consistent efforts to free the captives. \n\nDuring the Indians' surprising return to Fort Duquesne, Barbara and Regina meet up with a few other kidnapped boys. In the meantime, the Congress has had trouble making a decision, until the Governor eventually orders an attack/raid on the Indians' territory. The raid, however, costs many of the soldiers' lives in the process, and one woman who attempts to escape is executed later in a mercy killing fashion. Barbara and Regina are horrified at the sight of the woman's death, being the idea that the woman protected two other kids from any possible danger.\n\nThe next day, Barbara notices Galasko, a strong Indian warrior, crowning a horn with a scalp, which is the appearance and embodiment of her Papa's scalp from the house raid. In the meantime, Regina is forced into working with an Indian woman who treats her very harshly and only accepts character traits of hard work. However, several years later, Barbara, now a teenager, soon finds out later that Marie, another and two other boys have been planning an escape when meeting her at a waterfall. But after, Galasko asks Barbara (\"Susquehanna\" in Indian) to marry her, and Marie questions this, being that they will have a marriage ceremony in three days. With that being said, Barbara decides to join Marie and the other two boys, Owen and David, in the escape when Galasko hands her her mother's brooch.\n\nThat night, Barbara, Marie, Owen, and David escape together. However, they are knowingly hunted down by the strongest Indian in the family, Hannawoa, Galasko's brother. Meanwhile, the quick travelling four realize they must cross a river. They do, however, but in the process, they shoot and wound a bear, but then David attempts to overthrow the bear and is slashed badly by its claw. They all realize that Hannawoa might project the location from hearing the gunshot. Meanwhile, Galasko finds out about Barbara's betrayal of him and tries to look for her, with help from Hannawoa. Angry with his brother, Hannawoa murders Galasko with an axe. He angrily borrows Galasko's two weapons, a rifle and another axe. \n\nMeanwhile, at Fort Pitt, Pennsylvania, another area in present-day Pittsburgh, several British soldiers guarding their camp notice the four kids yelling for help. However, they mistake it as an Indian ambush and inform them that they will pick them up next morning. However, Hannawoa runs hysterically towards the fort with his weapons ready. The British however, already are prepared and attack Galasko, with misguided efforts when some are killed by him. Hannawoa is shot once and then when approaching Barbara, she pulls out another dead soldier's gun and shoots him dead, while another stabs him with a bayonet to make sure Hannawoa is really dead. After the attack after 200 miles of escaping the Delaware Tribes, Barbara, Marie, and the two others reunite together, all alive.\n\nHowever, one month later, Barbara reunites with her mother and family, saying her goodbyes to Owen and David, who are joining the Pennsylvania militia. However, her mother notices that Regina has been missing, and they seek out to find her. Years later, however, on Christmas Eve, a pastor informs the whole family, while Barbara and Fritz are married, that the Indians' captives have arrived at Fort Carlisle. Hearing this, which has connections to Regina being one of them, the family immediately reports to the fort after dinnertime. At the fort, meanwhile, Barbara and Marie are informed from Owen that David had been killed at the Battle of Bushy Run. Owen, however, reunites with Marie. However, Regina is still not there. However, when in doubt, Barbara's mother sings a poem that Regina and Barbara would together sing as sisters when in doubt, called \"Alone Yet Not Alone\". But when singing it, she finds Regina muttering the poem, realizing her mother is there. Regina runs to her mother and Barbara, and Regina, along with her whole family, all reconcile as one. \n\nMeanwhile, as the credits roll, we find out that the Delaware Tribes were scattered across the country when defeated, the German pastor is known as the patriarch of the Lutheran Church, and that Regina and her mother rest next to each other in the Christ Lutheran Church Cemetery in Pennsylvania, and so does Barbara as well.\n\nThe film was given a limited release on September 27, 2013, in nine markets and grossed $125,775 in its opening weekend. By the end of its three-week run on October 11, \"Alone yet Not Alone\" had grossed $133,546 in the domestic box office, with a respectable per screen average (combining theater ticket sales with Seatzy ticket sales) of $13,396. The film received a wider release on June 13, 2014.\n\nThe title song was performed by well-known evangelical Christian author Joni Eareckson Tada and written by Bruce Broughton and Dennis Spiegel. It was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song at the 86th Academy Awards, but the nomination was rescinded on January 29, 2014, after the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences found that Broughton, a former governor and current executive committee member of the music branch of the Academy, had improperly contacted other branch members. \"No matter how well-intentioned the communication, using one's position as a former governor and current executive committee member to personally promote one's own Oscar submission creates the appearance of an unfair advantage\", said Cheryl Boone Isaacs, Academy President.\nWhile not the first time in the history of the awards a nomination has been revoked, it is the first time the Academy has cited ethical grounds for doing so, and the first time it has done so to a scripted American-produced feature film. Broughton responded that there was a double standard in the industry, alleging that his actions of sending out \"70 or so emails\" was no different from Academy Awards president Cheryl Boone Isaacs' involvement in films such as \"The Artist\" and \"The King's Speech\" as an Academy governor. Not everyone agreed with the Academy's actions.\n\n"}
{"id": "58139051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58139051", "title": "Bangladesh Drug War", "text": "Bangladesh Drug War\n\nThe Bangladesh Drug War or Bangladesh's War on Drugs is an ongoing campaign against alleged drug dealers and users by the government of Bangladesh under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. The extra-judicial killings of alleged drug dealers by the elite anti-crime unit Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) and the police have been criticized by human rights groups and foreign diplomats.\n\nBangladesh has an unknown number of drug addicts, with estimates ranging from 100,000 to 4 million. Since 2015, the Bangladesh government has focused on eradicating a cheap methamphetamine tablet known as Yabadehut, and police have made significant pill seizures during that time. More than 29 million \"Yaba\" pills were seized in 2016, in contrast to just 1.3 million in 2011, according to a 2016 Bangladeshi government report. There are allegations that a number of the larger dealers are linked to the ruling Awami League party, pro-government Jubo League, and Secha Sebok League.\n\nBangladesh started a major \"Yaba\" crackdown in mid-May, 2018 in response to a surging trade of “Yaba”. Fifty-two accused drug dealers were confirmed killed in the first 10 days of the operation. According to a Bangladesh Police spokesperson, about 15,000 people were arrested in nationwide raids in the first three weeks of the operation. 22,000 people were arrested from mid-May 2018 to July 2018 as a result of alleged involvement in the drug trade. According to Odhikar, a Dhaka-based human rights group, 211 drug suspects were killed from mid-May 2018 to July 2018, more than a third of whom were arrested first. Most of the killings followed a common script: alleged drug dealers died in “gunfights”, usually at night, with weapons and drugs discovered near the deceased drug dealers.\n\nSome of the notable incidents of killing are:\n\nAccording to \"The Daily Telegraph\", there are allegations that the campaign is a \"cover for a wave of extrajudicial killings and political intimidation ahead of a general election later this year\". In a cited incident, Habibur Rahman, an activist for the opposition party, was killed in an alleged shootout. His family said that he had been arrested at a mosque and had never used drugs. The U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, the European Union, Human Rights Watch, Marcia Bernicat, and the US ambassador to Bangladesh all expressed concern over the number of people killed.\n\nPrime Minister Sheikh Hasina denied that any innocent people were being harassed and Asaduzzaman Khan, the Minister of Home Affairs, dismissed any allegation of extra-judicial killing. One police officer in charge of an operation that ended with the killing of an alleged drug dealer said drug use led to crime and claimed that arresting drug dealers did not help.\n\nHome Minister Asaduzzaman Khan denied allegations that the police were executing suspects without taking them through the judicial process. \"Our law enforcement people don’t execute anyone. If they do so, they will going against ethics, and will be fired if investigations prove they acted outside the law. This is not a lawless country,\" he told Reuters.\n\nThere have been strong allegations that no actions have been taken against ruling party MP, Abdur Rahman Badi, despite reports from five state agencies that mentioned him as patron of the drug trade.\n\n"}
{"id": "393905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=393905", "title": "Battle of Tanagra (457 BC)", "text": "Battle of Tanagra (457 BC)\n\nThe Battle of Tanagra took place in 457 BC between Athens and Sparta during the First Peloponnesian War.\n\nAlthough it had won a hegemony over the Greek city-states from its leadership in the Persian Wars, the Spartan-led Peloponnesian League feared the growing power of the Athenian empire and worsened relations by repeated diplomatic affronts and demands.\n\nWanting to deny any future Persian invasion a base from which to operate, Sparta had urged Athens, along with other Greek cities, to refrain from rebuilding their walls. However, suspecting a Spartan ploy and having already begun the work of construction, Athens employed subterfuge to delay the wheels of diplomacy until she could finish them.\n\nIn 464 BC, suffering another Helot rebellion and failing to make progress in the siege against their stronghold Ithome, Sparta had asked for Athens' aid along with its other allies. But after a \"considerable force\" arrived from Athens under the command of Cimon, Sparta, fearing the \"unorthodox\" politics of Athens and the possibility of her supporting the enslaved Helots rather than fighting them, sent the Athenian contingent home while keeping on the rest of her allies.\n\nDeeply offended by these Spartan interferences and insults, Athens was increasingly willing to support discord within the Peloponnesian League and took Megara into its protection during its border dispute with the Spartan-allied Corinth, leading to open war with Corinth but not Sparta herself.\n\nWhen the Phocians made war on the cities of Doris—the traditional homeland of Doric Greeks—the Doric Sparta sent a relief force under the command of Nicomedes, son of Cleombrotus, acting as regent for his under-age nephew, King Pleistoanax. An army of 1,500 Spartan hoplites with 10,000 of their allies entered Boeotia and compelled the submission of Phocis.\n\nAthens, already contemptuous of Spartan treatment and now suspecting her of negotiating with factions within the city to undermine democracy and prevent the construction of the Long Walls, maneuvered to cut off the Spartan army isolated in Boeotia.\n\nFacing either transport through waters controlled by the Athenian navy or a difficult march through the Geraneia mountain passes held by Athenian soldiers supported from Megara, the Spartans decided to wait either for the opening of a safe route home or an outright Athenian assault.\n\nMeeting the Spartans at Tanagra, Athens fielded \"their whole army, supported by 1,000 troops from Argos and by contingents from their other allies, making up altogether a force of 14,000 men.\" Although both sides sustained \"great losses,\" the Spartans were victorious and now able to return home through the mountain passes of the Isthmus.\n\nTwo months later, the Athenians regrouped and defeated Thebes at the Battle of Oenophyta and took control of Boeotia, taking down the wall the Spartans had built. With the victory the Athenians also occupied Phocis, the original source of the conflict and the Opuntian Locris.\n"}
{"id": "33364193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33364193", "title": "Beipu uprising", "text": "Beipu uprising\n\nThe Beipu Incident (), or the Beipu Uprising, in 1907 was the first instance of an armed local uprising against the Japanese rule of the island of Taiwan. In response to oppression of the local population by the Japanese authorities, a group of insurgents from the Hakka and Saisiyat indigenous groups in Hokuho, Shinchiku Chō (modern-day Beipu, Hsinchu County), attacked Japanese officials and their families. In retaliation, Japanese military and police killed more than 100 Hakka people. The local uprising was the first of its kind in Taiwan under Japanese rule, and led to others over the following years.\n\nFollowing the signing of the Treaty of Shimonoseki in 1895 between the Empire of Japan and Qing Empire of China, Taiwan was ceded to Japan in perpetuity, along with the Penghu Islands. The Japanese rule saw Taiwan take large strides towards modernization, as they oversaw improvements to the island’s infrastructure, economy, and health and education systems. Despite this, much of the population still suffered hardships, and there were regular partisan disturbances against Japanese installations. These guerrilla raids often resulted in Japanese reprisals which tended to be more brutal than the initial attack, such as the 1896 ‘Yun-lin massacre', which resulted in 6,000 Taiwanese deaths. Although the situation improved under Goto Shinpei, these disturbances still continued under Sakuma Samata, who succeeded Goto in 1905.\n\nAs part of the push for modernisation under Japanese rule, Beipu prospered due to its nearby coal mines. The town of Beipu was predominantly made up of members of the Hakka indigenous group, while people of the Saisiyat ethnic group also lived in the area. As Taiwanese aborigines, rather than Han Chinese, these groups were viewed as barbarians and were particularly likely to face oppression from Japanese rule, especially under Sakuma Samata’s term as governor-general.\n\nIn response to what was perceived as Japanese oppression, Tsai Ching-lin (蔡清琳) organised a group of insurgents in November 1907. The group, consisting mainly of Hakka with the support of the local Saisiyat aboriginal tribes, seized a collection of weapons in Beipu Township on 14 November. The following day, the insurgents killed 57 Japanese officers and their family members. As retribution, Japanese authorities killed more than 100 Hakka over the following days, the majority of which were young males from \"Neitaping\" (內大坪), a small village in the area.\n\nThe Beipu Incident was the first incident of its kind against the Japanese rule in Taiwan. Although other disturbances had occurred since the takeover in 1895, this was the first of a series of local uprisings which flared up quickly, and marked a new phase in armed Taiwanese resistance. Following Beipu, other similar uprisings such as the Tapani incident in 1915 and the Wushe Incident in 1930 occurred, the latter of which ultimately led to a change in approach to Japanese dealings with the aboriginal tribes of Taiwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "5014016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5014016", "title": "Beltane Fire Festival", "text": "Beltane Fire Festival\n\nBeltane Fire Festival is an annual participatory arts event and ritual drama, held on 30 April on Calton Hill in Edinburgh.\n\nThe modern Beltane Fire Festival is inspired by the ancient Gaelic festival of Beltane which began on the evening before 1 May and marked the beginning of summer. The modern festival was started in 1988 by a small group of enthusiasts including the musical collective Test Dept, with academic support from the School of Scottish Studies at the University of Edinburgh. Since then the festival has grown, and now involves over 300 voluntary collaborators and performers with available tickets often selling out.\n\nWhile the festival draws on a variety of historical, mythological and literary influences, the organisers do not claim it to be anything other than \"a modern celebration of Beltane\", evolving with its participants.\n\nThe current Beltane was started in 1988 by a small group of enthusiasts including Angus Farquhar of the musical collective Test Dept., choreographer Lindsay John, and dancers from Laban, as well as academics from the School of Scottish Studies at the University of Edinburgh. The event was intended as a celebration of traditional rituals as a local manifestation of an international spirit. Originally intended to take place on Arthur's Seat, the home of earlier Edinburgh Beltane celebrations, for practical reasons the location was moved to Calton Hill. Choreography, iconography and performance were moulded by the originators' research into historical accounts of Beltane and their own influences (e.g. Test Department's drumming, Trinidadian carnival, and ritual dance and performance).\n\nThe Beltane Fire Society, a registered charity which runs the festival, is managed by a democratically elected voluntary committee, and all the performers are volunteers who either join by word of mouth or by attending one of the advertised open meetings held early in the year. Senior performers and artists in the society help others through workshops with aspects of event production, prop construction, character performance techniques, team building, percussion skills and the health and safety considerations involved. The society has also held fundraising art and music events and has held a 'mini-Beltane' at a local AIDS Hospice, Milestone House.\n\nAs a community event, each year the performance has evolved as new people bring their own influences and directions. The core narrative remains by and large the same though additional elements have been added over time for theatrical, ritual, and practical reasons. Originally an event with a core of a dozen performers and a few hundred audience, the event has grown to several hundred performers and over ten thousand audience. Key characters within the performance are maintained, though reinterpreted by their performers, and additional participants incorporated each year.\n\nOriginally, the festival was free and only lightly stewarded, however, as the event has grown in popularity, due to the capacity of the hill, funding requirements, and Edinburgh Council requests, the festival has in recent years moved to being a ticketed event.\n\n"}
{"id": "20997145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20997145", "title": "Black Tuesday (disambiguation)", "text": "Black Tuesday (disambiguation)\n\nBlack Tuesday (October 29, 1929) was the highest trading volume day of the Wall Street Crash of 1929 on the New York Stock Exchange.\n\nBlack Tuesday may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1019091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019091", "title": "Combat stress reaction", "text": "Combat stress reaction\n\nCombat stress reaction (CSR) is a term used within the military to describe acute behavioral disorganization seen by medical personnel as a direct result of the trauma of war. Also known as \"combat fatigue\" or \"battle neurosis\", it has some overlap with the diagnosis of acute stress reaction used in civilian psychiatry. It is historically linked to shell shock and can sometimes precurse post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\nCombat stress reaction is an acute reaction that includes a range of behaviors resulting from the stress of battle that decrease the combatant's fighting efficiency. The most common symptoms are fatigue, slower reaction times, indecision, disconnection from one's surroundings, and the inability to prioritize. Combat stress reaction is generally short-term and should not be confused with acute stress disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, or other long-term disorders attributable to combat stress, although any of these may commence as a combat stress reaction. The US Army uses the term/acronym COSR (Combat Stress Reaction) in official medical reports. This term can be applied to any stress reaction in the military unit environment. Many reactions look like symptoms of mental illness (such as panic, extreme anxiety, depression, and hallucinations), but they are only transient reactions to the traumatic stress of combat and the cumulative stresses of military operations.\n\nIn World War I, shell shock was considered a psychiatric illness resulting from injury to the nerves during combat. The horrors of trench warfare meant that about 10% of the fighting soldiers were killed (compared to 4.5% during World War II) and the total proportion of troops who became casualties (killed or wounded) was 56%. Whether a shell-shock sufferer was considered \"wounded\" or \"sick\" depended on the circumstances. When faced with the phenomenon of a minority of soldiers mentally breaking down, there was an expectation that the root of this problem lay in character of the individual soldier, not because of what they experienced on the front lines during the war. These sorts of attitudes helped fuel the main argument that was accepted after the war and going forward that there was a social root to shell shock that consisted of soldiers finding the only way allowed by the military to show weakness and get out of the front, claiming that their mental anguish constituted a legitimate medical diagnosis as a disease. The large proportion of World War I veterans in the European population meant that the symptoms were common to the culture.\n\nCombat stress reaction symptoms align with the symptoms also found in psychological trauma, which is closely related to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). CSR differs from PTSD (among other things) in that a PTSD diagnosis requires a duration of symptoms over one month, which CSR does not.\n\nThe most common stress reactions include:\n\n\n\nThe ratio of stress casualties to battle casualties varies with the intensity of the fighting. With intense fighting, it can be as high as 1:1. In low-level conflicts, it can drop to 1:10 (or less).\nModern warfare embodies the principles of continuous operations with an expectation of higher combat stress casualties.\n\nThe World War II European Army rate of stress casualties of 101:1,000 troops per annum is biased by data from the last years of the war where the rates were low.\n\nThe following PIE principles were in place for the \"not yet diagnosed nervous\" (NYDN) cases:\n\nUnited States medical officer Thomas W. Salmon is often quoted as the originator of these PIE principles. However, his real strength came from going to Europe and learning from the Allies and then instituting the lessons. By the end of the war, Salmon had set up a complete system of units and procedures that was then the \"world's best practice\". After the war, he maintained his efforts in educating society and the military. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal for his contributions.\n\nEffectiveness of the PIE approach has not been confirmed by studies of CSR, and there is some evidence that it is not effective in preventing PTSD.\n\nUS services now use the more recently developed BICEPS principles:\n\nThe British government produced a \"Report of the War Office Committee of Inquiry into \"Shell-Shock\"\", which was published in 1922. Recommendations from this included:\n\n\nPart of the concern was that many British veterans were receiving pensions and had long-term disabilities.\n\nBy 1939, some 120,000 British ex-servicemen had received final awards for primary psychiatric disability or were still drawing pensions – about 15% of all pensioned disabilities – and another 44,000 or so were getting pensions for 'soldier's heart' or Effort Syndrome. There is, though, much that statistics do not show, because in terms of psychiatric effects, pensioners were just the tip of a huge iceberg.\"\n\nWar correspondent Philip Gibbs wrote:\nSomething was wrong. They put on civilian clothes again and looked to their mothers and wives very much like the young men who had gone to business in the peaceful days before August 1914. But they had not come back the same men. Something had altered in them. They were subject to sudden moods, and queer tempers, fits of profound depression alternating with a restless desire for pleasure. Many were easily moved to passion where they lost control of themselves, many were bitter in their speech, violent in opinion, frightening.\n\nOne British writer between the wars wrote:\n\nThere should be no excuse given for the establishment of a belief that a functional nervous disability constitutes a right to compensation. This is hard saying. It may seem cruel that those whose sufferings are real, whose illness has been brought on by enemy action and very likely in the course of patriotic service, should be treated with such apparent callousness. But there can be no doubt that in an overwhelming proportion of cases, these patients succumb to 'shock' because they get something out of it. To give them this reward is not ultimately a benefit to them because it encourages the weaker tendencies in their character. The nation cannot call on its citizens for courage and sacrifice and, at the same time, state by implication that an unconscious cowardice or an unconscious dishonesty will be rewarded.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II, most in the United States military had forgotten the treatment lessons of World War I. Screening of applicants was initially rigorous, but experience eventually showed it to lack great predictive power.\n\nThe US entered the war in December 1941. Only in November 1943 was a psychiatrist added to the table of organization of each division, and this policy was not implemented in the Mediterranean Theater of Operations until March 1944. By 1943, the US Army was using the term \"exhaustion\" as the initial diagnosis of psychiatric cases, and the general principles of military psychiatry were being used. General Patton's slapping incident was in part the spur to institute forward treatment for the Italian invasion of September 1943. The importance of unit cohesion and membership of a group as a protective factor emerged.\n\nJohn Appel found that the average American infantryman in Italy was \"worn out\" in 200 to 240 days and concluded that the American soldier \"fights for his buddies or because his self respect won't let him quit\". After several months in combat, the soldier lacked reasons to continue to fight because he had proven his bravery in battle and was no longer with most of the fellow soldiers he trained with. Appel helped implement a 180-day limit for soldiers in active combat and suggested that the war be made more meaningful, emphasizing their enemies' plans to conquer the United States, encouraging soldiers to fight to prevent what they had seen happen in other countries happen to their families. Other psychiatrists believed that letters from home discouraged soldiers by increasing nostalgia and needlessly mentioning problems soldiers could not solve. William Menninger said after the war, \"It might have been wise to have had a nation-wide educational course in letter writing to soldiers\", and Edward Strecker criticized \"moms\" (as opposed to mothers) who, after failing to \"wean\" their sons, damaged morale through letters.\n\nAirmen flew far more often in the Southwest Pacific than in Europe, and although rest time in Australia was scheduled, there was no fixed number of missions that would produce transfer out of combat, as was the case in Europe. Coupled with the monotonous, hot, sickly environment, the result was bad morale that jaded veterans quickly passed along to newcomers. After a few months, epidemics of combat fatigue would drastically reduce the efficiency of units. Flight surgeons reported that the men who had been at jungle airfields longest were in bad shape:\n\nUnlike the Americans, the British leaders firmly held the lessons of World War I. It was estimated aerial bombardment would kill up to 35,000 a day but the entire Blitz killed 40,000. The expected torrent of civilian mental breakdown did not occur. The Government turned to World War I doctors for advice on those who did have problems. The PIE principles were generally used. However, in the British Army, since most of the World War I doctors were too old for the job, young, analytically trained psychiatrists were employed. Army doctors \"appeared to have no conception of breakdown in war and its treatment, though many of them had served in the 1914–1918 war.\" The first Middle East Force psychiatric hospital was set up in 1942. With D-Day for the first month there was a policy of holding casualties for only 48 hours before they were sent back over the Channel. This went firmly against the expectancy principle of PIE.\n\nAppel believed that British soldiers were able to continue to fight almost twice as long as their American counterparts because the British had better rotation schedules and because they, unlike the Americans, \"fight for survival\" – for the British soldiers, the threat from the Axis powers was much more real, given Britain's proximity to mainland Europe, and the fact that Germany was concurrently conducting air raids and bombarding British industrial cities. Like the Americans, British doctors believed that letters from home often needlessly damaged soldiers' morale.\n\nThe Canadian Army recognized combat stress reaction as \"Battle Exhaustion\" during the Second World War and classified it as a separate type of combat wound. Historian Terry Copp has written extensively on the subject. In Normandy, \"The infantry units engaged in the battle also experienced a rapid rise in the number of battle exhaustion cases with several hundred men evacuated due to the stress of combat. Regimental Medical Officers were learning that neither elaborate selection methods nor extensive training could prevent a considerable number of combat soldiers from breaking down.\"\n\nIn an interview, Dr Rudolf Brickenstein stated that:\n\nHowever, as the war progressed there was a profound rise in stress casualties from 1% of hospitalizations in 1935 to 6% in 1942. Another German psychiatrist reported after the war that during the last two years, about a third of all hospitalizations at Ensen were due to war neurosis. It is probable that there was both less of a true problem and less perception of a problem.\n\nIn his history of the pre-Nazi Freikorps paramilitary organizations, \"Vanguard of Nazism\", historian Robert G. L. Waite describes some of the emotional effects of World War I on German troops, and refers to a phrase he attributes to Göring: men who could not become \"de-brutalized\".\n\nThe Finnish attitudes to \"war neurosis\" were especially tough. Psychiatrist Harry Federley, who was the head of the Military Medicine, considered shell shock as a sign of weak character and lack of moral fibre. His treatment for war neurosis was simple: the patients were to be bullied and harassed until they returned to front line service.\n\nEarlier, during the Winter War, several Finnish machine gun operators on the Karelian Isthmus theatre became mentally unstable after repelling several unsuccessful Soviet human wave assaults on fortified Finnish positions.\n\nSimplicity was added to the PIE principles by the Israelis: in their view, treatment should be brief, supportive, and could be provided by those without sophisticated training.\n\nPeacekeeping provides its own stresses because its emphasis on rules of engagement contains the roles for which soldiers are trained. Causes include witnessing or experiencing the following:\n\nMany of the symptoms initially experienced by CSR sufferers are effects of an extended activation of the human body's fight-or-flight response. The fight-or-flight response involves a general sympathetic nervous system discharge in reaction to a perceived stressor and prepares the body to fight or run from the threat causing the stress. Catecholamine hormones, such as adrenaline or noradrenaline, facilitate immediate physical reactions associated with a preparation for violent muscular action. Although the flight-or-fight-response normally ends with the removal of the threat, the constant mortal danger in combat zones likewise constantly and acutely stresses soldiers.\n\nThe process whereby the human body responds to extended stress is known as general adaptation syndrome (GAS). After the initial fight-or-flight response, the body becomes more resistant to stress in an attempt to dampen the sympathetic nervous response and return to homeostasis. During this period of resistance, physical and mental symptoms of CSR may be drastically reduced as the body attempts to cope with the stress. Long combat involvement, however, may keep the body from homeostasis and thereby deplete its resources and render it unable to normally function, sending it into the third stage of GAS: exhaustion. Sympathetic nervous activation remains in the exhaustion phase and reactions to stress are markedly sensitized as fight-or-flight symptoms return. If the body remains in a state of stress, then such more severe symptoms of CSR as cardiovascular and digestive involvement may present themselves. Extended exhaustion can permanently damage the body.\n\nModern front-line combat stress treatment techniques are designed to mimic the historically used PIE techniques with some modification. BICEPS is the current treatment route employed by the U.S. military and stresses differential treatment by the severity of CSR symptoms present in the service member. BICEPS is employed as a means to treat CSR symptoms and return soldiers quickly to combat.\n\nThe following BICEPS program is taken from the USMC combat stress handbook:\n\nCritical Event Debriefing should take 2 to 3 hours. Initial rest and replenishment at medical CSC (Combat Stress Control) facilities should last no more than 3 or 4 days. Those requiring further treatment are moved to the next level of care. Since many require no further treatment, military commanders expect their service members to return to duty rapidly.\n\nCSC should be done as soon as possible when operations permit. Intervention is provided as soon as symptoms appear.\n\nService members requiring observation or care beyond the unit level are evacuated to facilities in close proximity to, but separate from the medical or surgical patients at the BAS, surgical support company in a central location (Marines) or forward support/division support or area support medical companies (Army) nearest the service members' unit. It is best to send Service members who cannot continue their mission and require more extensive respite to a central facility other than a hospital, unless no other alternative is possible. The Service member must be encouraged to continue to think of himself as a war fighter, rather than a patient or a sick person. The chain of command remains directly involved in the Service member's recovery and return to duty. The CSC team coordinates with the unit's leaders to learn whether the over-stressed individual was a good performer prior to the combat stress reaction, or whether he was always a marginal or problem performer whom the team would rather see replaced than returned. Whenever possible, representatives of the unit, or messages from the unit, tell the casualty that he is needed and wanted back. The CSC team coordinates with the unit leaders, through unit medical personnel or chaplains, any special advice on how to assure quick reintegration when the Service member returns to his unit.\n\nThe individual is explicitly told that he is reacting normally to extreme stress and is expected to recover and return to full duty in a few hours or days. A military leader is extremely effective in this area of treatment. Of all the things said to a Service member suffering from combat stress, the words of his small-unit leader have the greatest impact due to the positive bonding process that occurs during combat. Simple statements from the small-unit leader to the Service member that he is reacting normally to combat stress and is expected back soon have positive impact. Small-unit leaders should tell Service members that their comrades need and expect them to return. When they do return, the unit treats them as every other Service member and expects them to perform well. Service members suffering and recovering from combat stress disorder are no more likely to become overloaded again than are those who have not yet been overloaded. In fact, they are less likely to become overloaded than inexperienced replacements.\n\nIn mobile war requiring rapid and frequent movement, treatment of many combat stress cases takes place at various battalion or regimental headquarters or logistical\nunits, on light duty, rather than in medical units, whenever possible. This is a key factor and another area where the small-unit leader helps in the treatment. CSC and follow-up\ncare for combat stress casualties are held as close as possible to and maintain close association with the member's unit, and are an integral part of the entire healing process. A visit from a member of the individual's unit during restoration is very effective in keeping a bond with the organization. A Service member suffering from combat stress reaction is having a crisis, and there are two basic elements to that crisis working in opposite directions. On the one hand, the Service member is driven by a strong desire to seek safety and to get out of an intolerable environment. On the other hand, the Service member does not want to let his comrades down. He wants to\nreturn to his unit. If a Service member starts to lose contact with his unit when he enters treatment, the impulse to get out of the war and return to safety takes over. He feels that he has failed his comrades and they have already rejected him as unworthy. The potential is for the Service member to become more and more emotionally invested in keeping his symptoms so he can stay in a safe environment. Much of this is done outside the Service member's conscious awareness, but the result is the same. The more out of touch the Service member is with his unit, the less likely he will recover. He is more likely to develop a chronic psychiatric illness and get evacuated from the war. This is one of the essential principles of CSC.\n\nTreatment is kept very simple. CSC is not therapy. Psychotherapy is not done. The goal is to rapidly restore the\nService member's coping skills so that he functions and returns to duty again. Sleep, food, water, hygiene, encouragement, work details, and confidence-restoring talk are often all that is needed to restore a Service member to full operational readiness. This can be done in units in reserve positions, logistical units or at medical companies. Every effort is made to reinforce Service members' identity. They are required to wear their uniforms and to keep their helmets, equipment, chemical protective gear, and flak jackets with them. When possible, they are allowed to keep their weapons after the weapons have been cleared. They may serve on guard duty or as members of a standby quick reaction force.\n\nHistorically, screening programs that have attempted to preclude soldiers exhibiting personality traits thought to predispose them to CSR have been a total failure. Part of this failure stems from the inability to base CSR morbidity on one or two personality traits. Full psychological work-ups are expensive and inconclusive, while pen and paper tests are ineffective and easily faked. In addition, studies conducted following WWII screening programs showed that psychological disorders present during military training did not accurately predict stress disorders during combat.\n\nWhile it is difficult to measure the effectiveness of such a subjective term, soldiers who reported in a WWII study that they had a \"higher than average\" sense of camaraderie and pride in their unit were more likely to report themselves ready for combat and less likely to fall victim to CSR or other stress disorders. Soldiers with a \"lower than average\" sense of cohesion with their unit were more susceptible to stress illness.\n\nStress exposure training or SET is a common component of most modern military training. There are three steps to an effective stress exposure program.\n\n\nSoldiers with a knowledge of both the emotional and physical signs and symptoms of CSR are much less likely to have a critical event that reduces them below fighting capability. Instrumental information, such as breathing exercises that can reduce stress and suggestions not to look at the faces of enemy dead, is also effective at reducing the chance of a breakdown.\n\n\nCognitive control strategies can be taught to soldiers to help them recognize stressful and situationally detrimental thoughts and repress those thoughts in combat situations. Such skills have been shown to reduce anxiety and improve task performance.\n\n\nSoldiers who feel confident in their own abilities and those of their squad are far less likely to suffer from combat stress reaction. Training in stressful conditions that mimic those of an actual combat situation builds confidence in the abilities of themselves and the squad. As this training can actually induce some of the stress symptoms it seeks to prevent, stress levels should be increased incrementally as to allow the soldiers time to adapt.\n\nFigures from the 1982 Lebanon war showed that with proximal treatment, 90% of CSR casualties returned to their unit, usually within 72 hours. With rearward treatment, only 40% returned to their unit. It was also found that treatment efficacy went up with the application of a variety of front line treatment principles versus just one treatment. In Korea, similar statistics were seen, with 85% of US battle fatigue casualties returned to duty within three days and 10% returned to limited duties after several weeks. Though these numbers seem to promote the claims that proximal PIE or BICEPS treatment is generally effective at reducing the effects of combat stress reaction, other data suggests that long term PTSD effects may result from the hasty return of affected individuals to combat. Both PIE and BICEPS are meant to return as many soldiers as possible to combat, and may actually have adverse effects on the long term health of service members who are rapidly returned to the front-line after combat stress control treatment. Although the PIE principles were used extensively in the Vietnam War, the post traumatic stress disorder lifetime rate for Vietnam veterans was 30% in a 1989 US study and 21% in a 1996 Australian study. In a study of Israeli Veterans of the 1973 Yom Kippur War, 37% of veterans diagnosed with CSR during combat were later diagnosed with PTSD, compared with 14% of control veterans.\n\nThere is significant controversy with the PIE and BICEPS principles. Throughout a number of wars, but notably during the Vietnam War, there has been a conflict among doctors about sending distressed soldiers back to combat. During the Vietnam War this reached a peak with much discussion about the ethics of this process. Proponents of the PIE and BICEPS principles argue that it leads to a reduction of long-term disability but opponents argue that combat stress reactions lead to long-term problems such as post-traumatic stress disorder. The use of psychiatric drugs to treat victims of CSR has also attracted criticism, as some military psychiatrists have come to question the efficacy of such drugs on the long term health of veterans. Concerns have been expressed as to the effect of pharmaceutical treatment on an already elevated substance abuse rate among former CSR sufferers. Recent research has caused an increasing number of scientists to believe that there may be a physical (i.e., neurocerebral damage) rather than psychological basis for blast trauma. As traumatic brain injury and combat stress reaction have very different causes yet result in similar neurologic symptoms, researchers emphasize the need for greater diagnostic care.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49203304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49203304", "title": "Dance For Kindness", "text": "Dance For Kindness\n\nDance For Kindness was initiated by Life Vest Inside (LVI) in 2012. It is a worldwide event in celebration of World Kindness Day which falls on November 13. Groups from across the globe join together to perform a Kindness Freezmob/Flashmob to the same song, same dance, all happening on the same day. The purpose of Dance for Kindness is to show that regardless of the differences in race, religion, ethnicity culture and background, the common thread that ties us together is kindness.\n\nThe Dance for Kindness flagship location is located in the heart of NYC, Times Square. The event takes place on the second Sunday of November which usually just follows World Kindness Week.\n\nThe goals of the event are to promote:\n\nDFK Group Leaders:\nEach city is run by LVI fans that sign up to become a Group Leader in their region. Group Leaders organize the events under the guidance and leadership of Life Vest Inside. The tasks of a group leader range from organizing a location, rehearsals, spreading word about the event, managing registrants who sign up to dance at their location, photo and video coverage during the event.\n\nDFK Anthem Contest:\nMusic is a large component of Dance for Kindness. It also has the most amazing power to uplift, inspire and unite. In the summer of 2014, LVI Founder, Orly Wahba, had an idea to create an original song for Dance for Kindness. She reached out to four artists and asked them to come up with an original song that embodies the purpose of Dance for Kindness. Once the songs were submitted, it was left in the hands of the DFK Group Leaders to vote as to which song would be the official DFK2014 anthem. \nVotes were cast and Charles Preston’s song, Revolution of Love was chosen as the first original DFK anthem.\n\nStarting in 2015, LVI opened up this opportunity to any and all musicians from around the globe to submit a demo that would be voted on by the public. LVI works with music industry professionals to produce the song to be heard worldwide on the day of Dance for Kindness.\n\n\nDance for Kindness FlashMob and FreezeMob songs are part of the DFK compilation album Connect. Album proceeds got to further LVI’s mission.\n\nIn 2015, several Celebrity Ambassadors joined Life Vest Inside and participated in Dance For Kindness including: \n\nDance for Kindness has been featured on \"The Today Show\", NBC, CBS, Bloomberg Television, and many other media outlets.\n\nDance for Kindness Stats:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8677", "title": "December 30", "text": "December 30\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3874361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3874361", "title": "Decennalia", "text": "Decennalia\n\nDecennalia (or decennia, from Latin \"decennium\" - \"tenth anniversary\"; \"decem\", \"ten\" + \"annus\", \"year\") were Ancient Roman festivals celebrated with games every ten years by the Roman emperors. \n\nThis festival owed its origin to the fact that in 27 BC, Augustus refused the supreme power offered to him for life. Instead, he would only consent to accepting power for ten years; during the festival, he would surrender up all of his authority to the hands of the people, who, filled with joy, and charmed with the goodness of Augustus, immediately delivered it back to him again. The memory was preserved to the last ages of the empire by \"Decennalia\", which was solemnised by subsequent emperors every tenth year of their reign, although they had received the imperium for life, and not for the limited period of ten years.\n\nDuring the festival, the people offered up vows to the emperor, called \"vota decennalia\", for the success and perpetuity of his empire. Roman coinage was specially modified during this time to indicate the undertaking of these vows, such as with the inscription VOTA SUSCEPTA DECENNALIA, or VOTIS X. From the time of Antoninus Pius, we find these ceremonies marked on medals: PRIMI DECENNALES; SECVNDI DECENNALES; VOTA SOL. DECEN. II; VOTA SVSCEP. DECEN. III. These vows must have been made at the beginning of every tenth year, since on the medal of Pertinax, who only reigned for 4 months in 193, there are the inscriptions VOTA DECENN. and VOTIS DECENNALIBVS.\n\nBurkhard Gotthelf Struve (1671-1738), in his \"Antiquitatum romanarum syntagma\" cap. IV, is of the opinion that these vows took the place of those the censors used to make in the times of the Republic for the prosperity and preservation thereof. In effect, they were not only made for the ruler, but also for the state, as may be observed from Cassius Dio, and Pliny the Younger.\n"}
{"id": "3469088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3469088", "title": "Disc rot", "text": "Disc rot\n\nDisc rot is the tendency of CD or DVD or other optical discs to become unreadable due to physical or chemical deterioration. The causes of this effect vary from oxidation of the reflective layer, to physical scuffing and abrasion of disc surfaces or edges, including visible scratches, to other kinds of reactions with contaminants, to ultra-violet light damage and de-bonding of the adhesive used to adhere the layers of the disc together.\n\nIn CDs, the reflective layer is immediately beneath a thin protective layer of lacquer, and is also exposed at the edge of the disc. The lacquer protecting the edge of an optical disc can usually be seen without magnification. It is rarely uniformly thick; thickness variations are usually visible. The reflective layer is typically aluminium, which reacts easily with several commonly encountered chemicals such as oxygen, sulphur, and certain ions carried by condensed water. In ordinary use, a surface layer of aluminium oxide is formed very quickly when an aluminium surface is exposed to the atmosphere; it serves as passivation for the bulk aluminium with regard to many, but not all, contaminants. CD reflective layers are so thin that this passivation is less effective. In the case of CD-R and CD-RW media, the materials used in the reflecting layer are more complex than a simple aluminium layer, but also can present problems if contaminated. The thin 0.25-0.5mm layer of protective lacquer is equivalent.\n\nDVDs have a different structure from CDs, using a plastic disc over the reflecting layer. This means that a scratch on either surface of a DVD is not as likely to reach the reflective layer and expose it to environmental contamination and perhaps to cause corrosion, perhaps progressive corrosion. Each type of optical disc thus has different susceptibility to contamination and corrosion of its reflecting layer; furthermore, the writable and re-writable versions of each optical disc type are somewhat different as well. Finally, discs made with gold as the reflecting layer are considerably less vulnerable to corrosion problems, though no less susceptible to physical damage to that layer. Because they are less expensive, the industry has adopted aluminium reflecting layers as the standard for factory pressed optical discs.\n\nOn CDs, the rot becomes visually noticeable in two ways:\n\n\nIn audio CDs, the rot leads to scrambled or skipped audio or even the inability to play a track.\n\nLaser rot is the appearance of video and audio artifacts during the playback of LaserDiscs, and their progressive worsening over time. It is most commonly attributed to oxidation in the aluminum layers by poor quality adhesives used to bond the disc halves together. Single-sided video discs did not appear to suffer from laser rot while double-sided discs did. The name \"laser rot\" is not a misnomer; although the disc degradation does not involve the player's laser, the \"rot\" refers to the laser disc itself.\n\nLaser rot was indicated by the appearance of multi-colored speckles appearing in the video output of a laserdisc during playback. The speckles increased in volume and frequency as the disc continued to degrade. Much of the early production run of MCA DiscoVision Discs had severe laser rot. Also, in the 1990s, LaserDiscs manufactured by Sony's DADC plant in Terre Haute, Indiana were plagued by laser rot.\n\nMany HD-DVDs, especially those produced by Warner Bros. between 2006 and 2008 developed disc rot not long after production. Disc rot was also more common on double-sided HD-DVDs than on single-sided HD-DVDs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "902122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=902122", "title": "Formula Woman", "text": "Formula Woman\n\nFormula Woman, officially known as the Privilege Insurance Formula Woman Championship, was a female-only one make racing series started in 2004 in the UK. It was inspired by the lack of female drivers in other series and was created, amongst other reasons, to boost the female audience of the sport.\n\nAll 16 drivers raced in the Mazda RX-8 over seven rounds around four British racing circuits. For the following year when support from Mazda ceased, the series consisted of mainly Caterham Sevens. Its last season was in 2007 before disappearing for good.\n\nThousands of women applied to join the series with 16 people eventually getting through to compete. A series of tests were employed to cut down the applicants over several days, including physical and practical examinations. The television coverage, by ITV, and format of these days was similar to various reality television programs with the organisers announcing the people that have progressed to the entire group.\n\n\nOulton Park, June 12\n\nKnockhill, June 27\n\nCadwell Park, July 4\n\nBrands Hatch, July 25\n"}
{"id": "33790849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33790849", "title": "French legislative election, 1945 (Algeria)", "text": "French legislative election, 1945 (Algeria)\n\nElections to the National Assembly of France were held in Algeria on 21 October 1945. The election was held with two colleges, citizens and non-citizens.\n"}
{"id": "28302134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28302134", "title": "Garrick Theatre (New York City)", "text": "Garrick Theatre (New York City)\n\nThe Garrick Theatre was a 910-seat theatre built in 1890 and located on 67 West 35th Street New York. Designed by Francis Hatch Kimball, it was commissioned by Edward Harrigan, who also managed the theatre, originally named Harrigan's Theatre, until 1895. Richard Mansfield took over from Harrigan, renaming it the Garrick. Charles Frohman assumed management from 1896 until 1915. The Shuberts bought it in 1916 and leased it to Otto Kahn, who named it Théâtre du Vieux-Colombier, after a theatre in Paris of the same name. Kahn later gave it to the Theatre Guild and it resumed the name Garrick Theatre in 1919. The Shuberts resumed management in 1925 and the theatre closed as a playhouse in 1929. After a short run of burlesque, the building was demolished in 1932.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9330437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9330437", "title": "Hit-and-run posting", "text": "Hit-and-run posting\n\nHit-and-run posting refers to a tactic where a poster at an Internet forum enters, makes a post, only to disappear immediately after. The term comes from the hit-and-run crime on auto vehicles, in which the driver hits another car or person causing an accident and then flees the scene. It is also known as making a \"drive-by\" posting, a play on the phrase drive-by shooting. The post often consists of a lengthy text making lots of claims that can be, but are not always, on topic. \n\nAnother variety is the sole posting of a URL or link that leads to material that might be used as a discussion primer, but with no added opinion of the poster. It differs from plain spam since forum spam often is posted by spambots, while hit-and-run posting on the other hand is done by a real person. Also, while spam mostly consists of advertising, hit-and-run posts usually have at least some bearing on the topic at hand. However, since the poster doesn't stay around to defend the posted material, or even discuss it, it is considered disrespectful, especially by forum regulars who tend to be angered by the fact that the hit-and-run doesn't become obvious until some or several replies already have been made.\n\nHit-and-run posting often follow the principle of \"throw enough in and some will stick\", where the poster hopes that even though they will not defend the post, it might at least persuade someone of its merits, although sometimes its motive is plain flamebaiting. Answering hit-and-run postings after they have been diagnosed as such is sometimes considered \"feeding the trolls\" and is therefore discouraged. Hit-and-run posting tends to occur more frequently in debate on controversial topics.\n\n"}
{"id": "32009403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32009403", "title": "In Praise of Love (play)", "text": "In Praise of Love (play)\n\nIn Praise of Love, originally entitled \"After Lydia\", is the first part of a 1973 double-bill play by the English playwright Terence Rattigan (the second half being \"Before Dawn\", a burlesque of the opera \"Tosca\"). It was the penultimate play he wrote.\n\nThe play's action was loosely inspired by the true-life relationship between the actor Rex Harrison and his actress wife Kay Kendall. In the play, the couple are transformed into the egotistical left-wing literary critic Sebastian and his East European refugee wife Lydia. During the Second World War, some 30 years previously, Sebastian had served in military intelligence while the part-Jewish Lydia was with the Resistance and then survived on her wits and her feminine charms; each is shown using the aptitude for deception developed then to try to protect the other from the knowledge that Lydia is suffering from a terminal illness. Rounding out the cast are Mark, a best-selling popular novelist and a friend of Sebastian's, who has long carried a torch for Lydia, and Joey, the couple's 20-year-old son, himself an aspiring writer, who is in rebellion against his father's overbearing manner and professed Marxist views.\n\nThe plays were described by Rattigan's biographer Michael Darlow in the following terms:\n\nThe original London production, at the Duchess Theatre, was directed by John Dexter, and starred Donald Sinden as Sebastian and Joan Greenwood as Lydia. It ran for 131 performances, and was described by \"The Sunday Times\" critic as \" “the most piercing exposition of love under great stress that I have ever seen on the stage.”\n\nThe subsequent New York production, directed by Fred Coe, which dropped the much-panned 2nd-act play \"Before Dawn\", starred Rex Harrison in the role based on himself (Sebastian) and Julie Harris as Lydia. Rattigan was said to be \"intensely disappointed and frustrated\" by Harrison's performance, as \"Harrison refused to play the outwardly boorish parts of the character and instead played him as charming throughout, signalling to the audience from the start that he knew the truth about Lydia's illness.\" Critics however were quite pleased with the performance and, although it did not have a long run (199 performances), it was yet another of Harrison's well plotted naturalistic performances.\n\nIn 1976, the play was filmed to great acclaim, with Alvin Rakoff directing for Anglia Television, and with Kenneth More and Claire Bloom in the lead roles. It was revived at the Chichester Festival Theatre in 2006 and at the Royal and Derngate Theatres, Northampton in 2011. It was broadcast as a Radio drama on BBC Radio 4 the same year. It has become a staple of repertory theatre seasons since.\n"}
{"id": "39455049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39455049", "title": "Indochina refugee crisis", "text": "Indochina refugee crisis\n\nThe Indochina refugee crisis was the large outflow of people from the former French colonies of Indochina, comprising the countries of Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos, after communist governments were established in 1975. Over the next 25 years and out of a total Indochinese population in 1975 of 56 million, more than 3 million people would undertake the dangerous journey to become refugees in other countries of Southeast Asia, Hong Kong or China. Hundreds of thousands may have died in their attempt to flee. More than 2.5 million Indochinese were resettled, mostly in North America, Australia and Europe. Five hundred thousand were repatriated, either voluntarily or involuntarily. \n\nThe Indochinese refugees consisted of a number of different peoples, including the Vietnamese boat people, the Sino-Vietnamese Hoa, Cambodians fleeing the Khmer Rouge and hunger, ethnic Laotians, Iu Mien, Hmong and other highland peoples of Laos, and Montagnard, the highland peoples of Vietnam. They fled to nearby countries to seek temporary asylum and most requested permanent resettlement in third countries. The refugee outflow and humanitarian crisis was especially acute in 1979 and 1980.\n\nReverberations of the Indochina refugee crisis continued into the 21st century. The last of the boat people were repatriated from Malaysia in 2005 and Thailand deported 4,000 Hmong refugees in 2009.\n\nIn Spring 1975, the armies of North Vietnam and the Viet Cong advanced rapidly southward and by early April the defeat and occupation of South Vietnam by the north was nearly certain. During the Vietnam War, nearly one million Vietnamese had been employed by the U.S. government or were family members of former employees and were believed to be in danger of persecution or execution by the conquering North Vietnamese. Fearing that rumors of evacuation would cause panic in the South Vietnamese population, extensive planning began only on April 18, 1975 when U.S. President Gerald Ford created an inter-agency task force headed by Julia Taft to \"coordinate...evacuation of U.S. citizens, Vietnamese citizens, and third-country nationals from Vietnam.\" By that time the military forces of North Vietnam were nearly in the outskirts of Saigon and the population of the city was swelled by hundreds of thousands of people displaced from areas already overrun by the communist armies.\n\nThe large-scale evacuation of Vietnamese by American military transport aircraft began on April 23 from Tan Son Nhut airport in Saigon. North Vietnamese rockets were fired at Tan Son Nhut on April 29, killing two American marines, and the airport was closed later that day. Thousands of Vietnamese and Americans were still clustered inside the American Embassy and in the streets around the Embassy awaiting evacuation. All that afternoon and night, military helicopters landed on the roof of the Embassy and carried evacuees to U.S. navy ships waiting off shore. Tens of thousands of Vietnamese evacuated themselves, primarily by taking boats out to sea and demanding to be picked up by the navy. Early on the morning of April 30, the last Americans, 11 marines, were evacuated by helicopter from the Embassy roof. Many Vietnamese and third country nationals awaiting or hoping for evacuation were left behind.\n\nThe total number of Vietnamese evacuated totaled 138,000. Most of them were taken by navy ships to Guam for processing to enter the United States and from there they were flown to one of four military bases: Fort Chaffee in Arkansas, Camp Pendleton in California, Fort Indiantown Gap in Pennsylvania, and Eglin Air Force Base in Florida. 130,000 Vietnamese were resettled in every U.S. state over the next few months. A few thousand refugees were resettled in other countries, especially Canada, or elected to return to Vietnam.\n\nA few months after the fall of Saigon, American officials realized that more refugees were crossing borders to escape Vietnam. The United States established a refugee office in Bangkok, Thailand headed by Lionel Rosenblatt, to process additional refugees for entry into the United States.\n\nThe Hmong and other highland peoples of Laos were U.S. allies in the Vietnam War, fending off for more than a decade the Pathet Lao and the North Vietnamese army. By May 1975, however, the communist armies were advancing on the last Hmong stronghold at Long Tieng. Fearing that the communists would carry out their threat to exterminate the Hmong, CIA agent Jerry Daniels organized an evacuation of close associates and Hmong military officers, including General Vang Pao, the Hmong commander. Using civilian aircraft and pilots, about 2,000 Hmong were evacuated by air to Thailand from May 10 to 14, 1975.\n\nUnanticipated was that many Hmong would follow their leaders to Thailand, traveling on foot through high mountains, eluding soldiers, and crossing the Mekong River. Thousands died during the difficult journey. About 40,000 Hmong fled to Thailand in 1975 and more followed in the next few years. Most Hmong and other highlanders were housed at the Ban Vinai Refugee Camp. The U.S. did not initially contemplate resettlement of Hmong, believing that they would be incapable of adapting to life in the U.S. Lobbying by Americans who had worked with the Hmong caused a change in policy. 140,200 Hmong and other highland peoples were resettled worldwide from 1975 until 1997, the great majority in the United States. The Hmong resettlement program continued until 2005, the U.S. in 2004 taking in 9,201 Hmong who were living at Wat Tham Krabok in Thailand.\n\nA few thousand Hmong were resettled in France and about 1,000 were resettled in the small country of French Guiana where they became prosperous growing vegetables for the local market.\n\nAlong with the Hmong and other highland peoples a large number of lowland, ethnic Lao, crossed the Mekong River into Thailand. Between 1975 and 1995, the number of Laotians refugees, including both Hmong and lowland Lao, totalled 360,000. Most of the lowland Lao fleeing their country were urbanized and educated; many were former employees of the U.S. government. They were housed mostly at Nong Khai Refugee Camp just across the river from Laos. Between 1975 and 1997, 183,907 ethnic Lao were resettled worldwide.\n\nThe Hoa are ethnic Chinese living in Vietnam, especially in the Cholon area of Saigon. In 1975, an estimated one to two million Hoa lived in Vietnam, and they owned or controlled most of the commerce of South Vietnam. After South and North Vietnam were united under a single communist government in 1976, the new government began to transform the economy from capitalist to socialist. The people most affected were the Hoa. The Hoa were threatened with being sent as agricultural workers in the New Economic Zones (state farms) set up by the Government; with 1.5 million relocated. Hoa businesses in Saigon were confiscated. In the years following the Vietnam War, ethnic Chinese were purged from Vietnam. Beginning in April 1978 about 450,000 Hoa would go to overland to China or by boat to Hong Kong during the next few years. 265,000 Hoa, mainly land arrivals, would be resettled in China. Between 1975 and 1999, 143,700 Vietnamese refugees, mostly Hoa arriving by sea in Hong Kong, were resettled in other countries. More than 67,000 were repatriated to Vietnam.\n\nRelations between China and Vietnam deteriorated, partly because of the repression of the Hoa. The \"Boat People\" (see below) were largely Hoa. In February 1979, China invaded Vietnam and briefly occupied parts of the north. The Vietnamese government initiated a policy of encouraging the Hoa to leave the country and charging them a fee of several thousand dollars to do so. Because of the outflow, the Hoa population of Vietnam declined during the 1980s.\n\nAfter the North Vietnamese takeover in April 1975, one million or more people were sent to \"re-education\" camps, often for several years, and the government attempted to destroy private enterprise, especially businesses owned by the Hoa. In September 1978, 1,220 \"boat people\" left Vietnam on an old ship and landed in Indonesia. That was the beginning of a flood of refugees arriving monthly by boat in Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Hong Kong, and other countries. The number of boat people arriving monthly on foreign shores peaked at 56,000 in June 1979.\nMost of the boat people left Vietnam in decrepit, leaky, overcrowded boats. They encountered storms, shortages of water and food, and, most seriously, pirates in the South China Sea and Gulf of Thailand. Merchant ships encountering boats in distress often refused to pick up the refugees for fear that no country would allow them to unload the refugees. Thai and Malay pirates attacked many of the small boats, raping and kidnapping women and stealing the possessions of the passengers. Authorities of the countries where they arrived often \"pushed off\" the refugee boats, refusing to allow them to land. The United Nations High Commission for Refugees estimated that between 200,000 and 400,000 boat people died at sea. Other estimates compiled are that 10% to 70% of the 1 -2 million Vietnamese boat people died in transit.\n\nThe continued arrival of more and more boat people precipitated a political crisis with the Southeastern Asian countries refusing to allow additional refugees to land on their shores unless European and North American countries would promise resettlement to them. At a UN conference on refugees in Geneva in July 1979, the Western countries agreed to accept 260,000 refugees per year, up from 125,000, for resettlement, to facilitate processing of refugees, and to contribute additional funds to refugee assistance. Most importantly, the Vietnamese government promised to stem the flow of refugees and to cooperate in the Orderly Departure Program under which Vietnamese could apply for resettlement without leaving their homeland. The numbers of boat people leaving Vietnam quickly dropped off to more manageable numbers.\nIn only four years, 1979 and 1982, during the height of the humanitarian crisis, twenty Western countries, led by the United States, Canada, Australia, and France, accepted 623,800 Indochinese refugees for resettlement, most of them boat people. Resettlement continued until the 1990s. Under the Orderly Departure Program and Comprehensive Plan of Action more than 600,000 additional Vietnamese were resettled abroad between 1980 and 1997.\n\nAbout 40,000 Vietnamese made their way to Thailand by land through Cambodia in the 1980s. Most of them were housed in Thai border camps until resettled abroad.\n\nThe conquest of Cambodia by the Khmer Rouge in April 1975 caused an outflow of more than 300,000 ethnic Chinese, ethnic Vietnamese, and Cambodians to Vietnam despite the unsettled political conditions there. However, only a few thousand Cambodians escaped the Khmer Rouge to Thailand as the border was guarded and seeded with minefields.\n\nOn December 25, 1978, Vietnam invaded Cambodia and overthrew the Khmer Rouge government. The Khmer Rouge and other resistance groups fled into the mountains and the border areas, but the people of the ravaged country—one to three million of whom had been killed by the Khmer Rouge—faced starvation and hundreds of thousands of them arrived at the border of Thailand seeking food and safety. The Thai refused to recognize the Cambodians as refugees but housed some of them in camps inside Thailand at Sa Kaeo and Khao-I-Dang. Most Cambodians were stopped at the border and took up residence in chaotic camps straddling the border between Cambodia and Thailand. Early arrivals at Sa Kaeo, mostly Khmer Rouge and their families fleeing the Vietnamese army, were in the last extremity of starvation. By the end of 1979, about 750,000 Cambodians were believed to be in Thailand, in the border camps, or near the border attempting to cross into Thailand. The Thai \"pushed back\" many of the Cambodians attempting to cross, most notably at Preah Vihear Temple where thousands of Cambodians died in a mine field.\n\nThe international response to the Cambodian humanitarian crisis was to set up a \"land bridge.\" International aid and relief agencies began distributing food, seed, and farm tools to Cambodians who came to the border and returned to the interior of the country to resume farming. By January 1980, 10,000 Cambodians arrived every day on foot, bicycle, or oxcart, and each received 10 to 30 kilograms of rice. By January 1981, when the program ended, more than 700,000 Cambodians had received food, seeds, and farm implements and the threat of famine within Cambodia had abated.\n\nIn Thailand and in border camps, however, were hundreds of thousands of Cambodians. 260,000 of them were resettled abroad in the 1980s and 1990s. 390,000 were repatriated to Cambodia, mostly from 1991 to 1993, as the result of a peace agreement, the disarmament of contending factions, and the withdrawal of the Vietnamese army from Cambodia.\n\nAbout one million highland peoples, called Montagnards, lived in Vietnam in 1975. Although the Montagnards were firm allies of the United States, especially the Green Berets, very few of them were among the 1975 evacuees from Saigon. Their guerilla war against the Vietnamese communists continued for the next 15 years, and a few Montagnards fled across the border to remote, jungle areas of Cambodia sandwiched between the hostile Khmer Rouge and Vietnamese. The Montagnards were largely forgotten but in 1986, 212 escaped to Thailand and were resettled in Raleigh, North Carolina. In 1992, the UNHCR discovered another group of 400 living in Cambodia. Humanitarian workers, the UNHCR, and former Green Berets took up their cause and, shortly, they were resettled in Greensboro, North Carolina. A total of 9,000 Montagnards were eventually resettled in the United States.\n\nThe following table lists the number of Indochinese resettled in the leading countries and the world from 1975 to 1997. A few thousand have been resettled since 1997, mostly in the United States.\nSource: Robinson, W. Courtland \"Terms of Refuge\" United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, London: Zed Books, 1998 p. 270, 276, Appendix 2; \"Far Eastern Economic Review\", June 23, 1978, p. 20\n\nIndochinese repatriated, voluntarily or involuntarily, to their home countries with assistance from UNHCR totalled 525,000 between 1975 and 1997. These included 390,000 Cambodians, 127,000 Vietnamese, and 27,000 Laotians. Many more thousands returned of their own accord or remained surreptitiously in their country of refuge.\n\nThe Vietnamese refugee crisis is depicted in the movie \"The Story of Woo Viet\", \"Boat People (film)\", \"Turtle Beach (film)\", \"Green Dragon (film)\", \"The Beautiful Country\", \"Journey from the Fall\" and \"Ride the Thunder (2015)\".\n\nThe Cambodian refugees crisis is depicted in the movie \"The Killing Fields (film)\", \"The Gate (2014 film)\" and \"First They Killed My Father (film).\n\nThe Laotian refugees crisis is depicted in the movie \"Love is Forever\"(1983).\n\n"}
{"id": "19043401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19043401", "title": "International Championship for Manufacturers", "text": "International Championship for Manufacturers\n\nThe FIA International Championship for Manufacturers (IMC) was a rally series culminating in a champion manufacturer. The championship was run from 1970 to 1972 and it was replaced by the FIA World Rally Championship in 1973. All the nine rallies of the 1972 IMC season were part of the 1973 World Rally Championship season.\n\nIn the inaugural season, Porsche's Björn Waldegård drove his 911 S to victory at the Monte Carlo Rally, the Swedish Rally and the Österreichische Alpenfahrt. With Porsche leading Alpine-Renault by only three points before the season-ending RAC Rally, the championship went down to the wire. Alpine-Renault recruited Ove Andersson for the event, but he had an accident and retired. Alpine-Renault's best result was then Andrew Cowan's fifth place, and Porsche took the title. Porsche's Gérard Larrousse also picked up a point for sixth place.\n\nIn 1971, Alpine-Renault ran away with the title as Andersson won four of the eight events in the Alpine A110 1600. The Alpine-Renault, driven by Bernard Darniche, also won the last-ever Coupe des Alpes, but because the event ran with an insufficient number of starters (36 when the FIA minimum was 50), no points were awarded towards the championship.\n\nThe final IMC title went to Lancia. The Fulvia 1.6 Coupé HF was driven by Simo Lampinen (35 points), Harry Källström (22) Sandro Munari (20) and Amilcare Ballestrieri (20). Fiat finished second in the standings with their 124 Sport Spider.\n\n"}
{"id": "34259789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34259789", "title": "Jacobs Well Theatre", "text": "Jacobs Well Theatre\n\nThe Jacobs Well Theatre was a playhouse in Cliftonwood, Bristol, England, which opened in 1729. It took its name from the nearby Jacobs's Well, which may have been a mikveh, a type of Jewish ritual bath. The theatre was built by actor John Hippisley, who had created the character of Peachum in the premiere of John Gay's Beggar's Opera. The stage space was so small that actors exiting on one side had to walk around the building to re-enter on the other side, often being subject to banter by spectators enjoying this free show. A hole was knocked through a party wall to an adjacent ale house, The Malt Shovel, so that actors, and audience seated on the stage, could obtain refreshments. Admission prices ranged from 1 shilling to 3 shillings, and it was estimated that a full house could earn as much as £80. Servants of patrons were admitted free of charge to an upper gallery. In later years, Thomas Chatterton described the theatre as a \"hut\".\n\nThe journey to the theatre from fashionable areas such as Queen Square and College Green was somewhat perilous, especially on dark nights, and consequently the theatre often provided linkboys to light the way with torches. Notable actors who appeared at the theatre included Charles Macklin, William Powell, and Thomas King, who were all stars of the Georgian stage. After Hippisley's death in 1748, the business was continued by his widow. When the Theatre Royal opened in King Street in 1776 most actors left the Jacobs Well Theatre as the new venue proved to be more fashionable. The last recorded performance at Jacobs Well was a pantomime in 1779.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "518215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=518215", "title": "Jaywalking", "text": "Jaywalking\n\nJaywalking occurs when a pedestrian walks in or crosses a roadway that has traffic. The term originated with \"jay-drivers\", people who drove horse-drawn carriages and automobiles on the wrong side of the road, before taking its current meaning.\n\nThe term \"jaywalking\" is used largely in the United States where rules applicable to pedestrians are less permissive than in countries such as the United Kingdom. Legal texts in other countries use different concepts, such as \"Rules applicable to pedestrians\" in the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic. One member of this convention, the United Kingdom, does not have jaywalking laws; its Highway Code relies on the pedestrian making their own judgment on whether it is safe to cross based on the Green Cross Code. Pedestrians do have priority over turning vehicles. Rule 170 of the UK's Highway Code states that a driver should \"watch out for pedestrians crossing a road into which you are turning. If they have started to cross they have priority, so give way.\"\n\nThe word jaywalk is not historically neutral. It is a compound word derived from the word jay, an inexperienced person and a curse word that originated in the early 1900s, and walk. No historical evidence supports an alternative folk etymology by which the word is traced to the letter \"J\" (characterizing the route a jaywalker might follow).\n\nWhile jaywalking is associated with pedestrians today, the earliest references to \"jay\" behavior in the street were about horse-drawn carriages and automobiles in 1905 Kansas: \"jay drivers\" who did not drive on the right side of the street. The term swiftly expanded to pedestrians, and by 1909, \"The Chanute Daily Tribune\" warned \"The jay walker needs attention as well as the jay driver, and is about as big a nuisance.\"\n\nThe word was promoted by pro-automobile interests in the 1920s, according to historian Peter D. Norton.\n\nOriginally, the legal rule was that \"all persons have an equal right in the highway, and that in exercising the right each shall take due care not to injure other users of the way\". In time, however, streets became the province of motorized traffic, both practically and legally. Automobile interests in the US took up the cause of labeling and scorning jaywalkers in the 1910s and early 1920s, by then the earlier term of \"jay driver\" was declining in use. The earliest citation in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" follows in 1917. \n\nJaywalking is illegal in over 10 countries due to the health risks. For example, a newspaper article introduced the term to readers in Grants Pass, Oregon in 1913:\nToday, in the US, the word might be used incorrectly with substantial confusion.\n\nPeople jaywalk for various reasons, including convenience and sometimes even personal safety, generally to cross the street. Going to a crosswalk can require a long detour. Pedestrians are often forced to walk outside crosswalks, when they are blocked by cars due to traffic congestion or drivers stopping too far forward. The common practice of car-centric traffic-signal synchronization produces green waves for motorists but not necessarily for pedestrians, who may encounter little or no conflicting traffic at cross streets where signals instruct them to wait. Where signalized crosswalks require a pedestrian to trigger their operation, they are at times unusable for some Jewish people who observe \"Shabbat\". Also, pedestrians are generally unwilling to observe lengthy wait times at signals. They are also more likely to make \"informal crossings\" at wide roads, or at locations where formal crosswalks are simply too distant to be practical for them to use. Also, pedestrians may dislike using intersections for other reasons, such as being uncomfortable dealing with traffic from a multitude of directions (whereas jaywalking at a location distant from an intersection results in the need to observe only two directions of traffic), or wanting to avoid the extra air emissions generated by vehicles stopping and starting (given that vehicular emissions are significantly less when vehicles are moving at steady speeds). In rural and suburban areas, people may jaywalk due to a lack of sidewalks.\n\nAlthough cultural norms about jaywalking vary by locality, the practice cannot simply be explained by corresponding differences in law. For example, cities like Copenhagen and New York City have similar restrictions on jaywalking at signalized crosswalks, but the practice is far more common in New York.\n\nMany American newspapers publish stories that are critical of pedestrian road users' safety practices, while police departments often instigate education and enforcement campaigns to curb jaywalking. While nearly 60% of American pedestrian deaths occur outside of crosswalks, fewer than 20% occur in close proximity to a crosswalk.\n\nWhen practiced with caution, jaywalking or crossing away from intersections, where legal, can be safer for pedestrians than exercising their right-of-way at crosswalks that are not equipped with pedestrian signals. Additionally, unsignalized marked crosswalks where drivers are more likely to yield to pedestrians are not necessarily safer than their unmarked counterparts, where pedestrians behave more cautiously not expecting motorists to yield.\n\nWhen used in the technical sense, jaywalking specifically refers to violation of pedestrian traffic regulations and laws and is therefore illegal. In many countries, such regulations do not exist and jaywalking is an unknown concept.\n\nIn many European countries pedestrians are banned from motorways (in the UK motorways are defined in law as special roads), and possibly from express roads, but are generally not prohibited from regular rural and urban roads. This is done in compliance with the Vienna convention on road traffic, which also contains concepts addressing the question of the usage of the road or street by pedestrians for walking or crossing. Some countries such as Ireland do not comply with the Vienna convention as rigorously as others. Laws and traditions vary from country to country.\n\nPedestrians account for 10% of fatalities: 217 pedestrian fatalities on EU motorways in 2012 and 847 between 2010 and 2012. This rate is 20% in Poland, 17% in Great Britain, 15% in Spain and 10% in France. Amongst those pedestrians killed on motorways are vehicle users who have left their vehicles, workers in work zones and individuals who entered the motorway on foot illegally.\n\nPedestrians must use marked crossings if located within 30 metres when the speed limit is above 30 km/h. However, any physical damage to a pedestrian caused by a traffic accident shall be compensated by the insurance of the drivers involved, regardless of the responsibility of the pedestrian, except if that pedestrian is over 14 and wanted the accident and its consequences to occur.\n\nIt is legal to cross all roads except motorways in Finland. Cars are required by law to give way to pedestrians at zebra crossings unless there is a traffic light. Motorway jaywalking is an offence.\n\nPedestrians shall be required to use zebra crossings for crossing street if there is one within 50 metres. However, this rule is often not respected by most French people when there is no car nearby in sight on the road. Car drivers must always let pedestrians cross if they have already started, even outside zebra crossings.\n\nOn French motorways, pedestrians are banned. Nonetheless some pedestrians might be in motorways: \n\nPedestrians must follow rules regarding when it is or is not appropriate to cross the street. Even so, the first and most important paragraph of the \"StVO §1\" is not to endanger anybody. Car drivers must always be prepared to brake for pedestrians, especially for children and elderly people. On the other hand, German pedestrians, according to the German Road Traffic Regulations \"(Straßenverkehrsordnung\") (VwV), have to watch the vehicular traffic carefully and cross a street quickly and on the shortest way across the driving lanes. If the situation on the street requires, pedestrians are only allowed to cross the street at intersections or within the markings of traffic signals or crosswalks. Pedestrians who cross the street at intersections or crossings have to use existing traffic signals or crosswalks. If one wants to cross the street outside the markings of traffic lights or crosswalks, one must carefully convince one's self before and during the crossing that the road is clear and wait before crossing if a vehicle approaches. A pedestrian must not interrupt the flowing traffic. Although 15 meters is not considered \"at\" the crosswalk or traffic light (KG Berlin VR 78 450), pedestrians may not cross the street 30 meter (BGH VRS 26 327) near a crosswalk and 40 meter (BGH NJW 00 3069: 39-43m; KG Berlin VRS 89 98: 33,5m) near to a traffic light but they do not need to go 200 m to a crossroad or 100 m to a traffic signal (OLG Hamburg VRS 87 249). In heavy traffic, pedestrians must not cross the street as they might have to stop on a traffic lane (OLG Hamm, Az. 27 U 115/96). Typical fines for not using existing crosswalks or traffic lights in Germany are between €5 and €10.\n\nWhilst jaywalking is not defined by the Hungarian Highway Code () specifically as an offence, various restrictions and prohibitions apply for pedestrians crossing roads or walking along roads in a very complex and loosely defined manner, that leaves much up to interpretations by the authorities, and fines are applied at the discretion of the Police for up to 30,000 HUF for each offence, all referring to section 21 § (1-13) of the Highway Code. Generally, pedestrians have the right of way once entering the road, although reasonable care and vigilance is expected of them. Wherever a crossing exists this must be used, although without any further reference to what extent, leaving the pedestrian exposed to potential financial fines on the spot. Unlike in most European countries, there is no defined extent to where crossings must be used, and the authorities regularly fine people at will.\n\nPedestrians are allowed to cross a street without any recognised crossing point only if there are no zebra crossings within a range of 100 metres. If a pedestrian crosses a street at a crosswalk, drivers must yield. Pedestrians should cross carefully anyways.\n\nJaywalking is an offence. One must cross only at recognized crossing points, if there is one within 100 m (incl. pedestrian tunnels and footbridges). If there is none, then crossing regular roads is allowed, with due care. Crossing double lane streets (except motorways) is allowed only outside towns. Crossing tram and train tracks that are separate and parallel to street is always prohibited.\n\nIt is illegal to cross the road if the nearest zebra crossing is in a 50-meter vicinity. Any crossing above that distance is legal. Pedestrians have priority over cars. However, pedestrians often ignore this rule.\n\nIn Scandinavian countries, it is legal to cross all roads except motorways in Denmark, Sweden and Norway. Cars and bikes are required by law to give way to pedestrians (but not bicycle riders) at zebra crossings—unless there is a traffic light and the light is green for the cars or bikes and there are no pedestrians currently passing the crossing. Pedestrians are encouraged to cross the road at zebra crossings if there is one nearby and are also discouraged from crossing at a red light.\n\nIn Norway, a red man signal at the crossing indicates that pedestrians must not begin crossing if it would impede cars or entail danger, but a person may walk across if there are no cars nearby. Taking risks and running across in front of cars is not legal. Not everyone is aware that cyclists are required to stop at a red signal, and the Norwegian national cyclists' organization has proposed disallowing all people from crossing at red to reduce the confusion.\n\nIn Denmark, it is illegal to cross the road outside of a pedestrian crossing if within 30 meters from a crossing (according to a newspaper) or if there is a crossing \"nearby\" (according to the law).\n\nIn Serbia, it is illegal to cross roads other than at pedestrian crossings if there is a zebra crossing within 100 metres.\n\nIn Slovakia, it is illegal to cross roads other than at pedestrian crossings if there is a zebra crossing within 50 metres. Any crossing above that distance is legal (except for certain types of roads (highway etc.)) but cars have priority in that case. If not regulated by traffic lights pedestrians have priority on pedestrian crossings over cars, but not over trams. However pedestrian is required to wait for the safe moment to cross and so cars usually don't stop as soon as there's pedestrian around (as usual in some other European countries where pedestrians can typically cross without any waiting).\n\nIn Slovenia pedestrians are in general allowed to cross the street everywhere. Pedestrians have priority on zebra crossings. If there is a zebra crossing within 100 metres, pedestrians have to use it. Certain types of roads (highway etc.) are not allowed for pedestrians.\n\nIn Switzerland pedestrians are in general allowed to cross the street everywhere. Pedestrians have priority on zebra crossings\nbut should cross with care. If there is a zebra crossing within 50 metres, they have to use it.\nWhen there is no zebra crossing, the driver is expected to stop their vehicle and to ease the crossing for pedestrians. Certain types of roads (highway etc.) are not allowed for pedestrians.\n\nIn motorways of Switzerland, fine may vary depending on the situation. \nA driver driving at 100km/hr on a road limited at 120km/hr with a light visibility of 60 meters and a braking distance of 65 metres can be fined for not be prepared for a person laid on the road. The fact that the person be suicidal does not matter. Fine could include a 210 Swiss francs fine even if cheaper than court costs. Nonetheless, similar circumstances, might also be considered as completely exceptional and unpredictable situation when it occurs to a policewoman answering an emergency call.\n\nThe term \"jaywalking\" is rarely used, and there is no law preventing such an act. In England, Wales and Scotland it is legal to cross (or indeed, walk along) all roads except motorways (where pedestrians and slow vehicles are not permitted), and roads with the \"No Pedestrians\" sign displayed.\nThe Highway Code contains additional rules for crossing a road safely, but these are recommendations and not legally enforceable, although as with other advisory parts of the Highway Code compliance or otherwise can be used to establish liability in civil law proceedings such as insurance claims.\n\nWhen crossing a road, pedestrians are advised to wait until it is safe to cross. If a pedestrian is crossing the road across a side street where a car is about to turn, vehicles should give way to the pedestrian. In UK schools children are taught to cross roads safely through the Green Cross Code. British children are taught to \"Stop, Look and Listen\" before crossing a road, as demonstrated in the \"Think!\" campaign.\n\nZebra crossings can be seen in many roads in towns and cities. These are marked crossings where pedestrians have legal priority when crossing a road. Vehicular traffic must stop at zebra crossings for pedestrians who have started to cross the road. The Highway Code advises pedestrians to walk within the marked path (studs or stripes) of pedestrian crossings; and not to cross the carriageway over the zig-zag lines painted either side of the crossing itself.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, jaywalking can be charged at police discretion and usually only in the case of an accident when clearly witnessed. Otherwise, Northern Ireland is essentially the same as elsewhere in the UK.\n\nJaywalking is regulated at the Provincial and Municipal level so there is no nationwide standard. Fines vary across the country from CAN$15 to CAN$700. In Toronto and Montréal, jaywalking is an offense and in some cases, the practice had been fined frequently. Rob Ford was fined CAN$109 for jaywalking in Coquitlam (part of Metro Vancouver) while visiting the funeral of a friend's mother. \n\nThe term 'jaywalking' is not in the Ontario Highway Traffic Act. Section 214 states that pedestrian fines not exceed CAN$50, although many municipalities add court fees around CAN$15. The current law is that pedestrians must cross at the crosswalk where one is provided, however, mid-block crossings are legal in Ontario.\n\nJaywalking is not illegal in Mexico. However, on the Paseo de la Reforma, one of Mexico City's longest and most important avenues, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, then the city‘s mayor, commissioned the installation of concrete prisms along the avenue's central curb, to discourage pedestrians from crossing the road.\n\nState road rules in the United States usually require a driver to yield the right of way to a pedestrian crossing a road when the pedestrian crosses at a marked crosswalk or an unmarked crosswalk. Unmarked crosswalks generally exist as the logical extensions of sidewalks at intersections with approximately right angles. Following the Uniform Vehicle Code, state codes often do not prohibit a pedestrian from crossing a roadway between intersections if at least one of the two adjacent intersections is not controlled by a signal, but stipulate that a pedestrian not at a crosswalk must yield the right of way to approaching drivers. State codes often permit pedestrians to use roads which are not controlled access facilities and without sidewalks but such use is usually regulated, for example, in Florida they must keep to the shoulder of the leftmost side of the road and yield to any oncoming traffic.\n\nState codes may include provisions that allow local authorities to prohibit pedestrian crossing at locations outside crosswalks, but since municipal pedestrian ordinances are often not well known to drivers or pedestrians, and can vary from place to place in a metropolitan area that contains many municipalities, obtaining compliance with local prohibitions of pedestrian crossings much more restrictive than statewide pedestrian regulations can be difficult. Signs, fences, and barriers of various types (including planted hedges) have been used to prohibit and prevent pedestrian crossing at some locations; where detour to a legal crossing would be highly inconvenient, even fences are sometimes not effective. Street design, traffic design, and locations of major building entrances that make crosswalks the most logical and practical locations to cross streets are usually more effective than police enforcement in reducing the incidence of illegal or reckless pedestrian crossings.\n\nAt a signalized crossing, a pedestrian is subject to the applicable pedestrian traffic signal or, if no pedestrian signal is displayed, the signal indications for the parallel vehicular movement. A pedestrian signal permits a pedestrian to begin crossing a street during the \"Walk\" display; the pedestrian is usually considered to be \"jaywalking\" only if he entered the crosswalk at some other time. The meanings of pedestrian signal indications are summarized in Section 4E.02 of the national Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.\n\nJaywalking is considered an infraction, but in some jurisdictions, it is a misdemeanor or requires a court appearance. The penalty is usually a fine. In some cities (e.g. New York City, Chicago, and Boston), although prohibited, \"jaywalking\" behavior has been so commonplace that police generally cite or detain jaywalkers only if their behavior is considered excessively dangerous or disruptive, such as running out in front of a moving vehicle, or crossing after the light is about to change to allow cross traffic to proceed. Penalties for jaywalking vary by state, and, within a state, may vary by county or municipality. A sampling of U.S. cities found fines ranging from US$1 to US$1,000.\n\nIn May 2017, a Boston Globe reporter spent the day attempting to get a citation for jaywalking in downtown traffic. The reporter walked against lights, crossed in the middle of streets, and across the middle of blocks and did not receive a ticket, even when committing infractions in front of police officers.\n\nJaywalking at a signalized intersection may carry higher fines in some jurisdictions due to disobeying the signalized controls. Many jurisdictions have a separate law defining the difference between jaywalking, or \"disobedience of traffic signal controls\". Some jurisdictions may fine pedestrians up to the same amount as a vehicle running a red light, but no driving points are issued, as the pedestrian was not driving at the time.\n\nIn the United States, jaywalking is linked to pedestrian injuries and fatalities,\nalthough no available data provide an exact risk rate due to missing jaywalking frequency data.\n\nIn the United States, jaywalking is mainly an urban issue (71%), but can also be a suburban or rural issue when no pavement is available.\n\nIn the United States, jaywalking might be understood as:\n\nHowever other pedestrian behaviour might be considered as unsafe while not qualified of jaywalking, for instance, failing to yield (both drivers and pedestrians), jogging/walking in the wrong direction, working on a parked car, leaning on a parked car, pushing a disabled car, standing between parked cars, and standing in a road.\n\nSome pedestrian factors which led to a jaywalking behavior have been considered: pedestrian perceptions of risk, consumption of alcohol, perceptions of crossing devices, speed and pace of life, speed versus crossing-device speed, perceptions of enforcement risk, unawareness of pedestrian laws and safety, following the leader.\nSome known environmental factors include: absence of midblock crosswalks, width of roads, poor timing of crossing signals,\npoor conditions of sidewalks, absence of sidewalks in certain areas, capacity of sidewalks, weather, people with limited mobility, \npeople with occupational risks, children and teens, parking areas near shopping centers, street repair and construction sites, major highways, one-way streets, location of attractions, unlawful street-vending.\n\nIn Brazil, it is illegal to cross the road if the nearest zebra crossing is in a 50-meter vicinity, Any crossing above that distance is legal. Pedestrians have priority over cars. According to CONTRAN resolution 706/17 from April 25, 2018, violators could pay a fine up to R$ 44,19; however, this measure is rarely enforced.\n\nIn many Asian countries, the low level of traffic control means that jaywalking is often more of a necessity to a pedestrian and is rarely punished outside of major commercial hubs such as Singapore (below). In many countries such as India or Vietnam it is quite common, given the level of traffic, that pedestrians will walk out into oncoming traffic and effectively \"carve out\" a route to the other side of the road.\n\nIn recent years, jaywalking has become more strictly controlled in China, as car traffic increased. Police have tested facial recognition to identify jaywalkers, and water cannons to stop them.\n\nIn India, jaywalking is not exclusively included in the law as an offense, but is covered under the broader term ‘obstruction of traffic’ in state and metropolitan laws. Examples include section 28B of the Delhi Police Act, 33B of the Bombay Police Act and 92G of the Karnataka Police Act. Despite this, jaywalking is common in cities due to lack of regulated crossings and footpaths and poor regulation of related laws by authorities. Anti-jaywalking drives are conducted by the police departments from time to time and offenders are penalized with fines of ₹100 to ₹500 depending upon the jurisdictions. Drivers have to yield the right of way for pedestrians at unsignalized crossings and marked pedestrian crossings.\n\nIn Iran jaywalking is illegal. One may cross only at recognized crossing points if there is one within 150 m. Regarding to Traffic laws, jaywalking and crossing when a pedestrian light is red or to start walking when it is flashing is prohibited from the 1970s. If in an intersection there is no pedestrian light, traffic lights would be considered, so it would be illegal when it is red or orange. As of November, 2009, jaywalking carries fines from 300,000 up to 2,000,000 Ir-Rials (US$9 to US$60). The law has almost never been enforced.\n\nIn Singapore jaywalking is an offence. A fine of S$20 is payable for the first offence. Repeat offenders can be charged $1000 and a jail term of 3 months though it is rarely imposed. In 2011, 8,650 people were caught jaywalking and fined in Singapore. Between January and March 2012, Singapore prosecuted 1,758 for jaywalking while between January and March 2013, 2,409 jaywalkers were fined.\n\nIn Australia, it is illegal to start crossing the road at an intersection when a pedestrian light is red or flashing red. If no such pedestrian light exists, the traffic lights are used, making it illegal to proceed on red or orange. Furthermore, it is illegal to cross any road within 20 m of an intersection with pedestrian lights or within 20 m of any pedestrian crossing (including a zebra crossing, school crossing, or any other pedestrian crossing).\n\nHowever, laws against jaywalking are rarely enforced, with the exception of the occasional police \"blitz\" on jaywalking for a week or so at a time, when the laws are enforced more stringently. Some roads with a record of pedestrian accidents feature fences in the centre to discourage pedestrians, but there is no law against traversing them. States set their own fines for jaywalking, for example AU$50 in Western Australia.\n\nPedestrians in New Zealand must, where possible, cross at right angles to the kerb or side of the roadway when not using pedestrian crossings or school crossing points. Pedestrians are obliged to use a pedestrian crossing, footbridge, underpass or traffic signal only if they are available within 20 metres. At intersections controlled by signals, pedestrians should wait for the green man to display, and are not allowed to begin crossing when either the static or flashing red man is displayed. The fine for jaywalking is up to NZ$35.\n\nIn Zimbabwe, jaywalking is illegal as per the traffic laws gazetted in 2013 by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure Development. Disregarding designated crossing points or passing through red traffic lights carry a punishment of up to six months in jail or a US$20 fine as part of the provisions of the new Highway Code. The code also deal with all road users, unlike in the past when it emphasized on rules for motorists and cyclists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29896895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29896895", "title": "Jeepspeed", "text": "Jeepspeed\n\nJeepspeed is an off-road organization and class of racing vehicle. The Jeepspeed organization was founded by Clive Skilton in 2001 after a visit to the Dakar Rally in Africa with his son and multi-time Dakar Rally competitor, Darren Skilton, with the intent to build a racing vehicle and series around the affordable and durable Jeep. Jeepspeed developed relationships with race promoters like MORE and Best in the Desert to create a five to seven race Jeepspeed racing series each season. The class has since expanded into four divisions and opened up to other Jeep and Dodge vehicles .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5416251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5416251", "title": "Jennie Bosschieter", "text": "Jennie Bosschieter\n\nJennie Bosschieter (1882–1900) is a woman who was raped and murdered in Paterson, New Jersey, on October 19, 1900. She was an early victim of the date rape drug chloral hydrate which caused her death.\n\nJennie was the daughter of Dina Bosschieter (born 1861) from the Netherlands. She lived with her parents at 155 East Fifth Street in the Riverside section, and worked at the Paterson Ribbon Company on Vreeland Avenue. She had an older sister Susan and younger brother, Joseph.\n\nShe left home on October 18, 1900, at 8:10 pm to go on an errand to the drug store, where she met Walter C. McAlister and William A. Death (pronounced \"Deeth\"). She had previously dated Death but he married another woman. McAlister, Death and two others drank with her in a private party room in Saal's saloon at the corner of River Street and Bridge Street. Her first drink may have been a Manhattan, then she drank an absinthe frappe, and then she had two glasses of Great Western sparkling wine. She was given two or three doses of chloral hydrate in her sparkling wine by McAlister. They took her in a carriage to a secluded area, raped her, and she died from an overdose of the drug. They dumped the body on the ground and her head hit a rock.\n\nHer body was found lying a short distance from the Wagaraw bridge (now known as the Lincoln Ave. Bridge) on the Bergen County, New Jersey side of the Passaic River in Columbia Heights section what is now Fair Lawn, between 5:30 and 6:15 am. The discovery was made by Marinus Gary on his way to work. Her head rested on a jagged rock, and there was a fracture of her skull near the base of her brain. The damage to her skull was postmortem. At the trial the defense attorneys tried to blame her death on the absinthe and not the overdose of chloral hydrate. The jury rejected that the death was from the absinthe and that the murder was premeditated.\n\nThere was a possible copycat crime on March 12, 1901 with Mary Paige drugged, raped and found severely ill. Paige did recover. Three boys were convicted of assault and served brief sentences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15775656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15775656", "title": "Kunduz airlift", "text": "Kunduz airlift\n\nThe Kunduz airlift refers to the evacuation of thousands of top commanders and members of the Taliban and Al-Qaeda, their Pakistani advisers including Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence agents and army personnel, and other Jihadi volunteers and sympathizers, from the city of Kunduz, Afghanistan, in November 2001 just before its capture by U.S. and United Front of Afghanistan (Northern Alliance) forces during the War in Afghanistan. As described in several reports, the Taliban and Al-Qaeda combatants were safely evacuated from Kunduz and airlifted by Pakistan Air Force cargo aircraft to Pakistan Air Force bases in Chitral and Gilgit in Pakistan-administered Kashmir's Northern Areas.\n\nAccording to the \"Los Angeles Times\", during the siege of Kunduz, U.S. and Northern Alliance forces (led by Mohammad Daud Daud and Abdul Rashid Dostum) had declared that they would treat foreign fighters of the Taliban (including Pakistani military advisers as well as Pakistani and Arab volunteers) more severely than their Afghan counterparts. The Northern Alliance had earlier witnessed Pakistani and Arab involvement in several massacres perpetrated by the Taliban in Afghanistan. Pakistani leaders feared that revenge killings of Pakistanis in Kunduz could lead to unrest and instability in their country and therefore decided to evacuate their forces before the U.S. and Northern Alliance ground forces moved into Kunduz.\n\nThe revelation that the U.S. had acquiesced to the escape of potentially dangerous individuals including the top leadership of the Taliban and Al Qaeda was a controversial and politically contentious topic that sparked off a debate in the western media and elicited denials of knowledge of this event from top Bush administration officials including Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. Although numerous articles mentioning such an ongoing airlift of Pakistani and other combatants from Kunduz appeared around that time in several international newspapers (such as the \"New York Times\", \"The Independent\" and \"The Guardian\"), the first reference to the specific term \"Airlift of Evil\" appeared in a column on the website of the MSNBC news network. It is generally thought that the U.S. administration agreed to the airlift in an attempt to appease Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf. This Pakistani evacuation of fighters belonging to the Taliban, Al Qaeda and the ISI is also detailed in the BBC documentary \"Secret Pakistan: Double Cross and Backlash\".\n\nMore details of the event finally emerged in the 2008 book \"Descent into Chaos\" by the investigative journalist Ahmed Rashid:\n\nOne senior (U.S.) intelligence analyst told me, \"The request was made by Musharraf to Bush, but Cheney took charge—a token of who was handling Musharraf at the time. The approval was not shared with anyone at State, including Colin Powell, until well after the event.Two planes were involved, which made several sorties a night over several nights. They took off from air bases in Chitral and Gilgit in Kashmir's Northern Areas, and landed in Kunduz, where the evacuees were waiting on the tarmac. Certainly hundreds and perhaps as many as one thousand people escaped. Hundreds of ISI officers, Taliban commanders, and foot soldiers belonging to the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and Al Qaeda personnel boarded the planes. What was sold as a minor extraction turned into a major air bridge. The frustrated U.S. SOF who watched it from the surrounding high ground dubbed it \"Operation Evil Airlift.\"\n\nAnother senior U.S. diplomat told me afterward, \"Musharraf fooled us because after we gave approval, the ISI may have run a much bigger operation and got out more people. We just don't know. At the time nobody wanted to hurt Musharraf. The real question is why Musharraf did not get his men out before. \n\nIn one of Hillary Clintons emails, discussing the senate report on the Tora Bora escape of Bin Laden, Sidney Blumenthal talks about the Kunduz airlift as being ordered by Cheney/Rumsfeld.\nGary Berntsen, the head of the CIA armed operation in eastern Afghanistan, is a major source for the report. I am in contact with him and have heard his entire story at length, key parts of which are not in his book, \"Jawbreaker,\" or in the Senate report. In particular, the story of the Kunduz airlift of the bulk of key AQ and Taliban leaders, at the request of Musharaff and per order Cheney/Rumsfeld, is absent.\n"}
{"id": "7433952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7433952", "title": "Louisiana Recovery Authority", "text": "Louisiana Recovery Authority\n\nThe Louisiana Recovery Authority (LRA) is the governmental body created in the aftermath of hurricanes Katrina and Rita by Governor Kathleen Blanco to plan for the recovery and rebuilding of Louisiana. Under the leadership of the founding executive director, Andy Kopplin, the authority's mission was to plan for Louisiana's future, coordinate across jurisdictions, support community recovery and resurgence, and ensure integrity and effectiveness. By working in collaboration with local, state and federal agencies, the authority's goal is to also address short-term recovery needs while guiding the long-term planning process.\n\nHurricanes Katrina and Rita devastated South Louisiana, destroying more than 200,000 homes and 18,000 businesses and causing about $25 billion in insured losses. The LRA leads one of the most extensive rebuilding efforts in the world. The LRA's decisions are made by a 33-member board of directors, led by its chairman, Xavier University of Louisiana President Norman Francis, and its vice chairman, journalist and author Walter Isaacson. The authority is staffed by fewer than 30 state government employees.\n\nThe LRA also designs all policy and programs funded by, thus far, $10.4 billion in federal Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) congressionally approved funds. The LRA's largest program dedicated $7.5 billion to helping residents of Louisiana affected by Hurricane Katrina or Rita get back into their homes as quickly and fairly as possible. This groundbreaking program, called the Road Home, represents the largest single housing recovery program in U.S. history. \n\nThe program affords eligible homeowners up to $150,000 in compensation for their losses to get back into their homes. As of February 1, 2008 the final number of applications received was 185,106. Of those applications received 159,406 were deemed eligible.\n\n"}
{"id": "6909341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6909341", "title": "Monte-Carlo Television Festival", "text": "Monte-Carlo Television Festival\n\nThe Festival de Télévision de Monte-Carlo is an international festival and competition focusing on productions for television, founded 1961 and based in Monaco.\n\nBy creating the Festival de Télévision de Monte-Carlo in 1961, Prince Rainier III of Monaco, wished to \"encourage a new art form, in the service of peace and understanding between men.\" Monaco's international status ideally suited the Prince's ambition: to recognize television as an exceptional means of bringing cultures together and enhancing their respective knowledge.\n\nThis project immediately generated worldwide interest and over the years, many distinguished celebrities have sat on the successive juries, bringing international recognition to the best of television programming. However, The Monter-Carlo Television Festival is above all, since the 1980s, a very important opportunity for business, a huge international market.\n\nH.S.H. Prince Albert II of Monaco has been the Honorary President of the Festival since 1988.\n\nThe best of worldwide television programming has been rewarded with Golden Nymph statuettes, copies of the \"Salmacis\" Nymph by the Monegasque sculptor François Joseph Bosio (1768–1845), the original of which is on show at the Louvre Museum in Paris.\n\nThe Golden Nymph Awards – with a Golden Nymph or a selection of Special Prizes – the best TV programs and actors from all around the world. Throughout the Festival, international juries composed of distinguished industry professionals and talent participate in screenings of all programming in Competition. Each year, more than 30 countries are represented in the competition, with more than 60 programs selected for nomination.\n\nThe Competition is open to all international networks, distributors and production companies.\n\nThe Official Competition is separated 2 Categories :\n\nOther prizes are also awarded during the Golden Nymph Awards Ceremony\n\n- The International TV Audience Awards reward shows that have achieved the highest viewing figures worldwide.\n\n- The competition is also the host of Special Prizes awarded in partnership with major global organizations such as the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Monaco Red Cross, the AMADE, SIGNIS and the Special Prize Rainier III - presented by H.S.H. Prince Albert II of Monaco.\n\nThe Festival de Télévision de Monte-Carlo closes with the glittering Golden Nymph Award Ceremony.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35862163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35862163", "title": "Murder of Tina Harmon", "text": "Murder of Tina Harmon\n\nTina Marie Harmon (born June 9, 1969 – October 29, 1981) was a 12-year-old American girl who was abducted, raped, and murdered on October 29, 1981 after being dropped off in Lodi, Ohio. After the discovery of her body, she was later buried at the Maple Mound Cemetery. One man was originally convicted of her murder on circumstantial evidence but was eventually released when the conviction was overturned. Harmon's murder was solved in 2010 when DNA from the individual who raped her was matched to Robert Anthony Buell.\n\nTina Harmon was reportedly last seen with a man in his twenties after she had been dropped off by her father's girlfriend in Lodi, Ohio. Harmon's body was later found next to an oil well site in Navarre, Ohio, five days after her abduction. Nutmeg-colored carpet fibers and dog hair were found on her clothing.\n\nIn 1982, Ernest Holbrook, Jr. and Henry Ray Rucker were convicted of both the rape and murder of Harmon, but after complications with the witnesses testimonies, one of them recanted. Rucker was given a new trial and was released in 1983.\n\nIn 1984, Robert Anthony Buell was convicted of the 1982 murder of Krista Lea Harrison. The dog hairs on Harmon's body were matched to the ones found on a dog buried in Buell's yard, once DNA testing became possible. Buell was later matched to Harmon's murder by comparing his DNA samples with the ones found on Harmon's clothing several years later.\n\nThe nutmeg-colored carpet fibers that were found on both bodies of Harmon and Harrison matched as well. However, Buell was never tried for her murder because he was already on death row. In 2002, Buell was executed for the murder of Harrison at age 62.\n\nFormer journalist for the \"Cleveland Scene\" James Renner wrote about similar characteristics of the murders of Harmon, Harrison and Smith to the 1989 murder of Amy Mihaljevic, which is currently unsolved. Although Buell was incarcerated at the time of Mihaljevic's death, he stated Buell's nephew may be responsible and stated he could have been involved in the three preceding murders, if not been the sole perpetrator. in 2008, the evidence in Harmon's case was compared to that in the Mihaljevic case. Ross was eliminated as the source of DNA from the Harmon case in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43053059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43053059", "title": "Narcissism in the workplace", "text": "Narcissism in the workplace\n\nNarcissism in the workplace is a serious issue and may have a major detrimental impact on an entire organization. Narcissistic individuals in the workplace are more likely to engage in counterproductive work behavior, especially when their self-esteem is threatened. Narcissism is both a personality trait and a personality disorder, generally assessed with the Narcissistic Personality Inventory.\n\nOliver James identifies narcissism as one of the dark triadic personality traits in the workplace, with the others being psychopathy and Machiavellianism. These three traits have been found to correlate moderately to strongly with one another. Dark triad traits also share strong negative correlations with Honesty-Humility traits. Narcissism is distinguished from the other dark triad traits by its positive correlations with openness and extroversion.\n\nNarcissists typically perform well at job interviews; they receive more favorable hiring ratings from interviewers than individuals who are not narcissists. Even more experienced and trained raters evaluate narcissists more favorably. This is perhaps because interviews are one of the few social situations where narcissistic behaviors, such as boasting, actually create a positive impression; however, favorable impressions of narcissists are often short-lived. Interviewers’ initial impressions of narcissistic applicants are formed primarily on the basis of highly visible cues, which makes them susceptible to biases. \n\nNarcissists are more skilled at displaying likable cues, which lead to more positive first impressions, regardless of their long-term likability or job performance. Upon first meeting narcissists, people often rate them as more agreeable, competent, open, entertaining, and well-adjusted. Narcissists also tend to be neater and flashier dressers, display friendlier facial expressions, and exhibit more self-assured body movements. Importantly, while narcissistic individuals may rate their own job performance more favorably, studies show that narcissism is not related to job performance. Thus, while narcissists may seem to perform better and even be rated as performing better in interviews, these more favorable interview ratings are not predictive of favorable job performance, as narcissists do not actually perform better in their jobs than non-narcissists.\n\nThere tends to be a higher level of stress with people who work with or interact with a narcissist. While there are a variety of reasons for this to be the case, an important one is the relationship between narcissism and aggression. Penney and Spector found narcissism to be positively related to counterproductive workplace behaviors, such as interpersonal aggression, sabotaging the work of others, finding excuses to waste other peoples' time and resources, and spreading rumors. These aggressive acts can raise the stress of other employees, which in turn increases absenteeism and staff turnover.\n\nThe narcissistic manager will have two main sources of narcissistic supply: inanimate (status symbols like cars, gadgets or office views); and animate (flattery and attention from colleagues and subordinates). Teammates may find everyday offers of support swiftly turn them into enabling sources of permanent supply, unless they are very careful to maintain proper boundaries. The narcissistic manager's need to protect such supply networks will prevent objective decision-making. Such a manager will evaluate long-term strategies according to their potential for gaining personal attention instead of to benefit the organization.\n\nNarcissists like hierarchical organisations because they think they will rise to high ranks and reap status and power. They take special interest in acquiring leadership positions and may be better at procuring them. Narcissists are less interested in hierarchies where there is little opportunity for upward mobility. A classic narcissist is more concerned with getting praised and how they are perceived than doing what benefits all of the \"stakeholders\". Some narcissistic attributes may confer benefits, but the negative and positive outcomes of narcissistic leadership are not yet fully understood.\n\nAccording to Alan Downs, corporate narcissism occurs when a narcissist becomes the chief executive officer (CEO) (or another leadership role) within the senior management team and gathers an adequate mix of codependents around him or her to support the narcissistic behavior. Narcissists profess company loyalty but are only really committed to their own agendas; thus, organizational decisions are founded on the narcissist's own interests rather than the interests of the organization as a whole, the various stakeholders, or the society in which the organization operates. As a result, a certain kind of charismatic leader can run a financially successful company on thoroughly unhealthy principles (at least for a time).\n\nNeville Symington has suggested that one of the ways of differentiating a good-enough organisation from one that is pathological is through its ability to exclude narcissistic characters from key posts.\n\nDuBrin suggests the following coping strategies:\n\nAnother method for dealing with narcissism is the gray rock method. This practice includes responding to the narcissist in monotone, emotionally void speaking patterns; avoiding addressing either party's personal life; and not engaging in stories or information designed to draw attention. For greatest effect, the user of the gray rock technique cannot allow the narcissist to know that it is in use. If they become aware of being manipulated, particularly volatile individuals may react explosively to try to get the user of the technique to break.\n\nIn 2007, researchers Catherine Mattice and Brian Spitzberg at San Diego State University, USA, found that narcissism revealed a positive relationship with bullying. Narcissists were found to prefer indirect bullying tactics (such as withholding information that affects others' performance, ignoring others, spreading gossip, constantly reminding others of mistakes, ordering others to do work below their competence level, and excessively monitoring others' work) rather than direct tactics (such as making threats, shouting, persistently criticizing, or making false allegations). Studies of adolescents using self-reports and teacher evaluation also indicated that narcissists are more likely to integrate aggressive and confrontational behaviors due to low self-esteem.\n\nThe research also revealed that narcissists are highly motivated to bully, and that to some extent, they are left with feelings of satisfaction after a bullying incident occurs. Despite the fact that many narcissist will avoid work, they can be eager to steal the work of others. In-line with other dark triad traits, many narcissists will manipulate others and their environment so that they can claim responsibility for company accomplishments that they had little or nothing to do with.\n\nStrong links between narcissism and sexual harassment, associated with ego centrism and willingness to exploit others. Additional research has also been done that directly correlates narcissism with a proclivity to engage in sexual harassment. Relevant correlates include sociosexuality, unrestricted sexuality, and extroversion. \n\nCrompton has distinguished what he calls \"productive narcissists\" from \"unproductive narcissists\". Maccoby acknowledged that productive narcissists still tend to be over-sensitive to criticism, over-competitive, isolated, and grandiose, but considered that what draws them out is that they have a sense of freedom to do whatever they want rather than feeling constantly constrained by circumstances, and that through their charisma they are able to draw people into their vision, and produce a cohort of disciples who will pursue the dream for all it's worth.\n\nOthers have questioned the concept, considering that the dramatic collapse of Wall Street and the financial system in 2009 must give us pause. Is the collapse due to business leaders who have developed narcissistic styles—even if ostensibly productive? Certainly one may conclude that at best there can be quite a fine line between narcissists who perform badly in the workplace because of their traits, and those who achieve outrageous success because of them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18536138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18536138", "title": "Nevada Theatre", "text": "Nevada Theatre\n\nThe Nevada Theatre, also known as the Cedar Theatre, located in downtown Nevada City, California, is California's oldest existing theater building. Its principal periods of significance were 1850–1874, 1875–1899, 1900–1924, and 1925–1949.\n\nAfter the three-story Bailey House Hotel, at Broad and Bridge Streets, burned down in 1863, the Nevada Theatre Association began fundraising for a new building. Stock was sold at $100 a share, and a ball was held June 1865 to cover the remaining costs for the rustic vernacular Victorian building. The building's architect, builder, and engineer are unknown. When the theater opened on September 9, 1865, the first performance was the John Poole two-act comedy entitled \"The Dutch Governor, or 'Twould Puzzle a Conjurer\".\n\nSilent films were screened as early as 1908, and the theater underwent a remodel in 1909, retrofitted as a movie house. A slanted floor and electric lights were added in 1915. By 1957, it closed because of a sluggish economy, but it was later purchased through public donations and reopened in 1968.\n\nWith over 200 seats, including balcony seating, the theater is in use year round for both live performance and movies. It is wheelchair accessible.\n\nThe backstage area is located under the stage and is painted baby blue. It includes a small room with makeup mirrors.\n\nNotable past performers include Lotta Crabtree, Mötley Crüe, Jack London, Emma Nevada, Mark Twain, and The Second City comedy troupe.\n\nPresent day main users include:\n\nThe Nevada County Liberal Arts Commission was formed in the 1960s to purchase the building from United Artists. The Nevada Theatre Commission, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit corporation, followed the first commission and, with a Board of Directors, is the governing body of the Nevada Theatre. It owns, operates, restores, and utilizes the theater \"To preserve and develop the historic Nevada Theatre and its other historic properties in order to provide the community with an accessible, usable and valuable cultural asset\" (Mission Statement).\n\nThe theater is registered as California Historical Landmark No. 863, and was listed in the National Register of Historic Places on March 14, 1973. The landmark plaque reads:\n\nCALIFORNIA'S OLDEST EXISTING THEATRE BUILDING, THE NEVADA OPENED SEPTEMBER 9, 1865. CELEBRITIES SUCH AS MARK TWAIN, JACK LONDON, AND EMMA NEVADA HAVE APPEARED ON ITS STAGE. CLOSED IN 1957, THE THEATRE WAS LATER PURCHASED THROUGH PUBLIC DONATIONS AND REOPENED MAY 7, 1968 TO AGAIN SERVE THE CULTURAL NEEDS OF THE COMMUNITY.\nCALIFORNIA REGISTERED HISTORICAL LANDMARK NO. 863\nPLAQUE PLACED BY THE STATE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION IN COOPERATION WITH THE HISTORICAL LANDMARKS AND LIBERAL ARTS COMMISSIONS OF NEVADA COUNTY, APRIL 27, 1974.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "938282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938282", "title": "Of Thee I Sing", "text": "Of Thee I Sing\n\nOf Thee I Sing is a musical with a score by George Gershwin, lyrics by Ira Gershwin and a book by George S. Kaufman and Morrie Ryskind. The musical lampoons American politics; the story concerns John P. Wintergreen, who runs for President of the United States on the \"love\" platform. When he falls in love with the sensible Mary Turner instead of Diana Devereaux, the beautiful pageant winner selected for him, he gets into political hot water. \n\nThe original Broadway production, directed by Kaufman, opened in 1931 and ran for 441 performances, gaining critical and box office success. It has been revived twice on Broadway and in concert stagings in the U.S. and in London. In 1932, \"Of Thee I Sing\" was the first musical to win the Pulitzer Prize for Drama.\n\nThe Gershwins and George S. Kaufman had collaborated on a satirical musical in 1927 entitled \"Strike up the Band,\" which played in Philadelphia. The show concerned a cheese manufacturer who sponsors a war against Switzerland because it will be named after him. A version of \"Strike Up the Band,\" with the book altered by Morrie Ryskind, played on Broadway in early 1930. Much of the satire was replaced in the new version by silliness, leading Ryskind to recall, \"What I had to do, in a sense, was to rewrite \"War and Peace\" for the Three Stooges.\"\n\nLater that year, Kaufman and Ryskind conceived a new musical focusing on satire about rival political parties battling over a new national anthem. The Gershwin brothers agreed to write the score, although they were scheduled to be in Hollywood writing songs for the film \"Delicious\". Kaufman and Ryskind soon realized that their concept did not provide sufficient plot for a musical. They crafted a libretto inspired by the timeless battle of political idealism with corruption and incompetency, creating the first American musical with a consistently satiric tone. The writers and the cast were unsure of what the public's reception would be, prompting Kaufman's now-famous statement, \"Satire is what closes on Saturday night.\"\n\nIn the U.S. in the 1930s, a campaign parade is taking place to support \"Wintergreen for President\". John P. Wintergreen has been nominated for President and Alexander Throttlebottom has been nominated for Vice President, but he is of such little importance no one can remember who he is. Politicians meet in a hotel room to devise a campaign platform, and when they ask the chambermaid what she cares about, she first says \"money,\" then \"love\" when pressed further. The men decide that Wintergreen's platform will be \"love\"; they'll have a pageant to select the most beautiful girl in the United States, and Wintergreen will fall in love and marry her. \n\nThe pageant begins in Atlantic City, New Jersey, and the contestants wonder, \"Who Is the Lucky Girl to Be?\" The photographers assure them that even if they do not win, they will surely be loved (\"The Dimple on My Knee\"). Wintergreen is getting nervous about marrying a girl he doesn't know. While the girls are at the final judging, he confides in Mary Turner, the sensible young woman running the pageant. He does not want to marry a girl just because she's beautiful; he wants a wife who will make a good home for him and his future children. Mary shares her corn muffin with him. Wintergreen tells Mary that he'd rather marry her than any of the girls in the contest. He kisses her, and she agrees to marry him. The judges of the pageant announce that Diana Devereaux, a beautiful southern girl, has won the contest, but Wintergreen declares that he loves Mary Turner. When he gives some of Mary's extraordinary corn muffins to the judges, they agree that John and Mary are meant to wed (\"Because, Because\"). \n\nOutside Madison Square Garden in New York City, at a rally for Wintergreen, the campaigners declare that \"Love Is Sweeping the Country.\" Inside, where politicians are speaking in favor of Wintergreen, a wrestling match is going on just below the speakers' platform as Alexander Throttlebottom tries to explain to the organizers that he's the candidate for Vice-President. Wintergreen proposes to Mary onstage, as he has in forty-seven states before. She accepts again, and Wintergreen sings the campaign song to her, \"Of Thee I Sing\".\n\nOn election night, Wintergreen wins by a landslide. Inauguration Day arrives, which is also Wintergreen's wedding day. As his inaugural address, Wintergreen bids goodbye to the girls he used to know (\"Here's a Kiss for Cinderella\"). The Chief Justice presides over the wedding ceremony, and just after he has pronounced John and Mary man and wife, Diana Devereaux interrupts the proceedings. She is serving Wintergreen with a summons for breach of promise. She insists she is the one he should have married (\"I Was the Most Beautiful Blossom\"). The Supreme Court rules that Mary's corn muffins are more important than justice in this matter, and Diana angrily leaves to tell her story across the nation. Wintergreen leads the Supreme Court and spectators in a chorus of \"Of Thee I Sing\".\n\nJohn and Mary settle down to business in the White House. Her \"desk,\" back-to-back with his, is a fully loaded tea-table. Their secretaries greet each other \"Hello, Good Morning.\" Alexander Throttlebottom, now Vice-President, sneaks into the White House with a tour group. When a guide tells him that the Vice-President's job is to preside over the U. S. Senate, Throttlebottom eagerly dashes off to the Capitol. Wintergreen's fellow party members inform him that Diana Devereaux is gaining support across the nation. Wintergreen holds a press conference and tells the reporters that his love for Mary is the only thing that matters (\"Who Cares?\"). The French ambassador unexpectedly arrives (\"Garçon, S'il Vous Plaît\"). He has a surprise for Mr. Wintergreen: Diana is \"'The Illegitimate Daughter' of an illegitimate son of an illegitimate nephew of Napoleon.\" He insists that Wintergreen annul his marriage and marry Diana to right his grievous offense against France. Everyone agrees that Wintergreen should be impeached for breach of promise (\"We'll Impeach Him\"), but John and Mary do not care, since they have each other (\"Who Cares?\" (Reprise)).\n\nThrottlebottom has found the Senate, and the party members inform him that he will soon be President. He is very excited and goes into the Senate Chamber to preside, beginning by taking \"The Roll Call.\" The resolution on the impeachment of the President is brought up, and the French Ambassador and Diana mournfully insist that she was \"Jilted.\" Mary saves the day when she announces that she is pregnant (\"Who Could Ask For Anything More?\"). The senators refuse to impeach an expectant father, and Wintergreen declares that \"Posterity\" is just around the corner. The French Ambassador informs Wintergreen that by not marrying Diana, he has contributed to France's declining birth rate. He demands the Wintergreens' baby as a replacement for the one they have \"taken\" from France. John refuses, and the ambassador walks out.\n\nIn the Yellow Room of the White House, guests are arriving bearing gifts for the baby (\"Trumpeter, Blow Your Horn\"). Wintergreen is nervously awaiting the baby's birth when the French Ambassador arrives with a final message from France: surrender the baby or France will sever diplomatic relations with the U.S. The Supreme Court justices, who have the duty to determine the sex of the baby, announce that twins have been born, a boy and a girl. The French ambassador is even more wounded by this proclamation: France has lost two babies instead of one! Diana mournfully joins him, and Alexander Throttlebottom arrives bearing sweaters for the babies. The French Ambassador is about to declare war when Wintergreen has a brilliant idea: according to Article Twelve of the Constitution, when the President of the United States is unable to fulfill his duties, his obligations are assumed by the Vice-President! The ambassador calls Wintergreen a genius, and Throttlebottom is ecstatic as they pass Diana over to him. Servants wheel a large bed into the room, where Mary sits with the babies. Wintergreen leads everyone in proclaiming, \"Of Thee I Sing.\"\n\n \n\n\"Of Thee I Sing\" was the most musically sophisticated of the Gershwin shows up to then, inspired by the works of Gilbert and Sullivan and boasting a varied score including extensive recitative, choral commentary, marches, pastiches, elaborate contrapuntal passages, and ballads. Most songs were lengthy and included a large ensemble. In addition, as an integrated song-and-story production it produced fewer hit songs than many of the Gershwins' musicals. Ira Gershwin explained, \"In the show there are no verse-and-chorus songs; there is a sort of recitative running along, and lots of finales and finalettos.\" \nIra Gershwin recalled that the title song, inspired by the final phrase of \"My Country, 'Tis of Thee\", was somewhat controversial among the production staff. \"When we first played this sentimental political campaign song... there were objectors who thought that juxtaposing the dignified 'of thee I sing' with a slangy 'baby' was going a bit too far. Our response was that, naturally, we'd replace it with something else if the paying audience didn't take to it. Opening night, and even weeks later, one could hear a continuous 'Of thee I sing, baby!' in the lobby at intermission time.\" The music was \"employed throughout in what was unquestionably the most closely integrated manner of any Broadway show to that time...Almost everything ...was created with a skill that had rarely been equaled in the musical comedy theatre.\"\n\n\"Of Thee I Sing\" was the first American musical with a consistently satirical tone. Congress, the U.S. Supreme Court, the Presidency, and the democratic process itself were all targets of this satire, prompting original stars William Gaxton and Victor Moore to wonder if they would face government repercussions for their portrayals of President Wintergreen and Vice President Throttlebottom. Specific political parties are not identified in the musical, as Kaufman and Ryskind believed that absurdity was bipartisan in Depression-era politics.\n\nThe original Broadway production, directed by Kaufman, opened at the Music Box Theatre on December 26, 1931 and ran for 441 performances. The cast included William Gaxton as John P. Wintergreen, Lois Moran as Mary Turner, Grace Brinkley as Diana Devereaux, Victor Moore as Alexander Throttlebottom and George Murphy as Sam Jenkins. It was produced by Sam H. Harris. Sets were designed by Jo Mielziner, costumes by Carles LeMaire, and dances staged by Georgie Hale. It was Gaxton and Moore's first comedic pairing; they would collaborate on six more Broadway musicals, including \"Anything Goes\". The orchestrations were by Robert Russell Bennett, William Daly (including the \"Overture\"), and Gershwin (\"Hello, Good Morning\"). \"Of Thee I Sing\" was the longest-running Gershwin show during George Gershwin's lifetime.\n\nThere were Broadway revivals in 1933 at the Imperial Theatre and in 1952 at the Ziegfeld Theatre, both directed by Kaufman. A concert production of \"Of Thee I Sing\" was mounted by Ian Marshall Fisher's Lost Musicals series at the Barbican Centre in London in August 1996. Fisher's series examines the Gershwins' lesser known works (as well as others) and has been based at London's Royal Opera House and Sadler's Wells. The musical was presented in 1990 by the New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players and in May 2006 as part of the New York City Center \"Encores!\" staged concert series. Directed by John Rando and choreographed by Randy Skinner, the cast starred Victor Garber as John P. Wintergreen, Jefferson Mays as Vice President Alexander Throttlebottom, and Jennifer Laura Thompson as First Lady.\nThe latest revival was in July 2015 at the Royal Festival Hall, London by producer Ollie Rosenblatt as a full musical with orchestra. Diana Devereaux was played by Hannah Waddingham, Wintergreen by Hadley Fraser and Throttlebottom by Tom Edden. The Royal Philharmonic Concert Orchestra provided the new musical setting for the piece. In September 2015 the Sqabbalogic theatre company and Sydney Philharmonia Choirs presented the musical in the Concert Hall, Sydney Opera House.\n\n\"Of Thee I Sing\" has never been filmed. A television version was produced in 1972 by CBS, mostly starring actors then appearing in CBS series, including Carroll O'Connor as President Wintergreen. A National Radio Theater version starring John Cullum was broadcast by NPR in 1984 and the BBC in 1984 and 1992.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Marx Brothers had intended to produce a film adaptation of the musical, but they decided to make \"Duck Soup\" instead. Many scholars draw parallels between \"Of Thee I Sing\" and \"Duck Soup\", even going so far as to suggest that the musical helped provide inspiration for that Marx Brothers classic.\n\nA musical sequel to \"Of Thee I Sing\" was written by the same team, entitled \"Let 'Em Eat Cake\", and was produced on Broadway in 1933. It reused some of the music from \"Of Thee I Sing\". However, it was a critical and box office failure. \"Let \"Em Eat Cake\" was the last Broadway musical that the Gershwins wrote (if one counts \"Porgy and Bess\" as an opera rather than a musical).\n\nBrooks Atkinson in the \"New York Times\" called the musical \"a brisk musical comedy\", writing that \"There is dancing, both routine and inventive. There are lyrics done in Ira Gershwin's neatest style...Best of all, there is Mr. Gershwin's score. Whether it is satire, wit, doggerel or fantasy, Mr. Gershwin pours music out in full measure and in many voices. Although the book is lively, Mr. Gershwin is exuberant.\" \n\nIn 1932, \"Of Thee I Sing\" became the first musical to win the Pulitzer Prize for drama. The 1932 Pulitzer Prize Committee stated, \"\"Of Thee I Sing\" is not only coherent and well-knit enough to class as a play, but it is a biting and true satire on American politics and the public attitude towards them... The play is genuine and it is felt the Pulitzer Prize could not serve a better purpose than to recognize such work. The prize was awarded only to Kaufman, Ryskind and Ira Gershwin; George Gershwin received no recognition, since the Pulitzer Prize was considered a literary award. In 1998, at the centennial of his birth, he was posthumously awarded an honorary Pulitzer.\n\nIn his \"New York Times\" review of the 2006 concert revival, Charles Isherwood called \"Of Thee I Sing\" \"a trenchant little musical satire... the laughter that greets the show today is tinged with surprise at how eerily some of its jokes seem to take precise aim, from decades back, at current affairs. A chorus of reporters sings to the new president of the '17 vacations you have had since you've been here.' A politician dismisses Abraham Lincoln's pronouncement about not being able to fool all of the people all the time by remarking: 'It's different nowadays. People are bigger suckers.' ...it serves as a sigh-inducing argument for the enduring follies of American politics.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "899864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=899864", "title": "People's Olympiad", "text": "People's Olympiad\n\nThe People's Olympiad (Catalan: \"Olimpíada Popular\", Spanish: \"Olimpiada Popular\") was a planned international multi-sport event that was intended to take place in Barcelona, the capital of the autonomous region of Catalonia within the Spanish Republic. It was conceived as a protest event against the 1936 Summer Olympics being held in Berlin, which was then under control of Nazi Germany.\n\nDespite gaining the support from some athletes; and most significantly Joseph Stalin's Soviet Union and the Communist International organization, who had also boycotted the Berlin Olympics; the People's Olympiad was never held, as a result of the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War. Fifty-two years later, Barcelona hosted the 1992 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe Soviet Union did not participate in the Olympics until 1952 considering them a \"bourgeois\" event. However, the Communist government later used the success of Soviet athletes at the Olympics to further its political agenda.\n\nIn 1931, the International Olympic Committee had selected Berlin, then the capital of the Weimar Republic, to host the 1936 Summer Olympics at the 29th IOC Session in Barcelona. Berlin had defeated Barcelona, which was also vying to host the games, by 43 votes to 16. During the same year, Spain had adopted a republican constitution, with King Alfonso XIII going into exile, and Catalonia was declared an autonomous region inside the new Spanish Republic.\n\nFollowing the 1936 general election\nin Spain, the newly elected Popular Front government (which included the Communist Party of Spain) decided that Spain would boycott the Berlin Olympics in Germany, which was now under Adolf Hitler's NSDAP government, and host its own games. Invitations were made to many different countries, and it was planned to use the hotels built for the 1929 Barcelona International Exposition as an Olympic-style Village. The games were scheduled to be held from July 19 to 26 and would have therefore ended six days prior to the start of the Berlin games. In addition to the usual sporting events, the Barcelona games would also have featured chess, folkdancing, music and theatre.\n\nA total of 6,000 athletes from 22 nations registered for the games. The largest contingents of athletes came from the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Norway, Sweden and French Algeria. There were also teams from Germany and Italy made up of political exiles from those countries. Teams representing Jewish exiles, Alsace, Galicia, Catalonia and the Basque Country also registered. The Soviet Union, under the rule of Joseph Stalin, had been holding its own version of the Olympics, known as the Spartakiad, organised by Red Sport International. Despite this, the Soviets agreed to attend the Barcelona competition.\n\nMany of the athletes were sent by trade unions, workers' clubs and associations, socialist and communist parties, and left-wing groups, rather than by state-sponsored committees.\n\nWith the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War just as the games were to begin, the alternate games were hastily cancelled. Some athletes never made it to Barcelona as the borders had been closed, while many who were in the city for the beginning of the games made a hasty exit. However, at least 200 of the athletes, such as Clara Thalmann, remained in Spain and joined workers' militias that were organized to defend the Second Spanish Republic against the nationalists.\n\nThe Japanese musical play \"Never Say Goodbye\", produced by Cosmos Troupe of Takarazuka Revue, made reference to the event and those athletes who stayed behind to help the Civil War.\n\nThe play \"The Man That Lovelock Couldn't Beat\" by New Zealand writer Dean Parker featured a fictitious character - Tommy Morehu - who travelled to Spain for the People's Olympiad, and was later killed in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nThriller author Sam Bourne makes the People's Olympiad a key event in his 2012 novel \"Pantheon\", where protagonist James Zennor meets his future wife Florence. Both are British athletes arriving in Barcelona shortly before the games are canceled. James, an Oxford oarsman, decides to stay in Spain to fight for the Republic, while Florence, a swimmer, travels to Berlin, where she joins the British athletes at the Olympic Games only to take an anti-Nazi stand by quitting a competition publicly.\n\n\"Savage Coast,\" poet Muriel Rukeyser's only novel, is a fictionalized account of the author's experience traveling to Barcelona to cover the People's Olympiad as a journalist, and her subsequent political awakening as she witnesses the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51014921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51014921", "title": "Prensa Obrera", "text": "Prensa Obrera\n\nPrensa Obrera (\"Workers' Press\") is the weekly newspaper edited by the Workers' Party (PO) of Argentina. His first edition went out in the year 1982. In 2010 has reached a thousand editions. It has a thrown of 15.000 copies weekly.\n\n"}
{"id": "3075398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3075398", "title": "Radom Air Show", "text": "Radom Air Show\n\nThe Radom Air Show (, International air shows - Radom Air Show) is a biannual celebration in the city of Radom, Poland, which began in 2000 (to continue in 2001, 2002, 2003 and then 2005). Every other year during the last weekend of August, military planes from the air forces of Europe and Russia gather in Radom for the show, which entertains visitors through elaborate stunts and performances from the aircraft. According to the authorities behind the show, its aim is to entertain the citizens of Radom and all of Poland, as well as to bring much needed investors to the city.\n\nSince its founding, the Radom Air Show has become the most popular air show in Poland.\n\nOn 1 September 2007, three Zlin Z-526 aircraft from the AZL Żelazny aerobatics team were performing their display. One maneuver involved the three aircraft simultaneously flying toward a central point from different directions. Two of the aircraft, one piloted by Piotr Banachowicz and the other by the group's founder, Lech Marchelewski, struck each other at right angles, destroying both aircraft and killing both pilots. \n\nOn 30 August 2009, a Belarusian Sukhoi Su-27UBM (Number black 63) crashed while performing at the Radom show.\n\n"}
{"id": "26259885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26259885", "title": "Rey de Reyes (1997)", "text": "Rey de Reyes (1997)\n\nThe Rey de Reyes 1997 (Spanish for \"King of Kings\") was the first annual Rey de Reyes professional wrestling tournament and major wrestling show, produced by the Mexican wrestling promotion AAA. The event took place on February 21, 1997 in the Convention Center in Ciudad Madero, Tamaulipas, Mexico. The Rey de Reyes tournament consisted of a semi-final round of four four-man elimination matches and a final match with the winners of each of the semi-finals facing off in an elimination match until only one man remained. The show also featured a \"Mini-Estrella\" Six-man \"Lucha Libre rules\" tag team match between the teams of Mini Goldust, Mini Mankind and Mini Vader going against La Parkita, Mini Nova and Super Muñequito. The final match of the tournament pitted Latin Lover, Heavy Metal, Héctor Garza and Octagón against each other.\n\nStarting in 1997 and every year since then the Mexican \"Lucha Libre\", or professional wrestling, company AAA, or Triple A, has held a Rey de Reyes (Spanish for \"King of Kings') show in the spring. The 1997 version was held in February, while all subsequent Rey de Reyes shows were held in March. As part of their annual Rey de Reyes event AAA holds the eponymious Rey de Reyes tournament to determine that specific year's \"Rey\". Most years the show hosts both the qualifying round and the final match, but on occasion the qualifying matches have been held prior to the event as part of AAA's weekly television shows. The traditional format consists of four preliminary rounds, each a Four-man elimination match with each of the four winners face off in the tournament finals, again under elimination rules. There have been years where AAA has employed a different format to determine a winner. The winner of the Rey de Reyes tournament is given a large ornamental sword to symbolize their victory, but is normally not guaranteed any other rewards for winning the tournament, although some years becoming the Rey de Reyes has earned the winner a match for the AAA Mega Championship. From 1999 through 2009 AAA also held an annual \"Reina de Reinas\" (\"Queen of Queens\") tournament, but later turned that into an actual championship that could be defended at any point during the year, abandoning the annual tournament concept. The 1997 show was the first Rey de Reyes show in the series.\n\nThe Rey de Reyes show featured six professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing, scripted feuds, plots, and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n"}
{"id": "28542901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28542901", "title": "Ribfest", "text": "Ribfest\n\nA ribfest (short for rib festival), sometimes called a rib cook-off is a type of food festival that occurs throughout the United States and Canada. \n\nThe size of each ribfest is often measured by the number of traveling professional \"rib teams\" which sell food and compete at the events.\n\nA rib festival generally has multiple food vendors selling barbecue beef or pork ribs, pulled pork sandwiches, chicken, coleslaw, baked beans, and other related food choices. The vendors usually compete against one another for top spot in several categories including: Best Ribs, Best Sauce, Best Pulled Pork, and the Peoples Choice Award. \n\nThe rib festivals often coincide with music festivals, such as the \"Dallas Ribfest Gospel BBQ\", or Cleveland's \"Great American Rib Cook off & music festival\".\n\n"}
{"id": "45692765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45692765", "title": "Seoul International Women's Film Festival", "text": "Seoul International Women's Film Festival\n\nSEOUL International Women's Film Festival (SIWFF, previously International Women's Film Festival in Seoul, IWFFIS) first took place on April 1, 1997, which marked the second appearance of the international film festival in Korea following Busan International Film Festival launched in 1996. This was the time when there was no clear idea about how to define a film festival. At that time, SEOUL International Women's Film Festival came up with a catchphrase See the world through women's eyes, setting its main goal to introduce women's films that explore the “women’s reality from the women’s perspectives”. Featuring films by women, for women, and of women, the 1st edition of SEOUL International Film Festival received a number of positive reviews from the audience, which was never anticipated this much. Thanks to continuous support from the audience, SEOUL International Film Festival that used to be happening every other year has become an annual event since the 3rd edition in 2001. For the 6th edition in 2004, SEOUL International Women's Film Festival looked for changes by relocating the festival office and venues to Sinchon, the street of youth and culture. For the 9th edition in 2007, the Queer Rainbow section was first introduced, presenting films about life and culture of gender minorities. In order to go beyond the gender boundaries based on biological sex and to reach out for solidarity, SEOUL International Women's Film Festival newly created the Open Cinema section encompassing feminist films made by male directors. Now in 2015, SEOUL International Film Festival attempts to build its new festival identity and become a cultural platform more approachable for a wide variety of audiences by changing the official English title of the festival from International Women's Film Festival in Seoul to SEOUL International Women's Film Festival as well as by retouching the festival logo used for last 17 years.\n\n\n\nList of the Documentary Ock Rang Awardees\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49721830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49721830", "title": "Six Days of Madrid", "text": "Six Days of Madrid\n\nThe Six Days of Madrid is a former six-day cycling event, held in Madrid, Spain. Fourteen editions of the event were held between 1960 and 1986.\n"}
{"id": "22844620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22844620", "title": "Sterling Renaissance Festival", "text": "Sterling Renaissance Festival\n\nSterling Renaissance Festival is a Renaissance Festival that operates in Sterling, New York. It runs for seven consecutive weekends through July and August. The Festival was founded in 1976 by Dennis Ouellette, Sr., and later owned and operated by Gerald and Virginia Young . The festival was purchased in 2008 by Doug Waterbury.\n\nThe setting is the year 1585 in the fictional village of Warwick, which rambles across a wooded hillside and includes many permanent structures (some two-story) on the occasion of their annual festival. Queen Elizabeth is in attendance in the company of the members of her court, including various real-life figures, such as Sir Walter Raleigh and Sir Francis Drake. These ladies and gentlemen of the court perform set pieces, such as the human chess match and Tea with the Queen, in addition to interacting with patrons. The entirety of village life is represented by the cast, known as the Wyldewood Players (alternatively, the Bless-the-Mark Players). The cast of costumed actors portray all kinds of villagers; gypsies, pirates, washer-wenches and others. They stroll the grounds, improvising scenarios to entertain the patrons.\n\nCostumed entertainers include Renaissance musicians, bagpipers, illusionists, jugglers, sword-swallowers fortune-tellers, and comedy acts. Twice daily the performers join together in a grand processional through the Festival grounds, and the Festival closes each evening with a pub sing in which everyone is encouraged to sing along.\n\nAt the base of the west-facing hillside is the jousting field. Here, full-contact jousting takes place, as well as displays of archery and (on Highland weekend) Highland games. In addition, patrons can ride the war-horses of the jousters for a small fee.\nLike most Faires, the Sterling Renaissance Festival has a large number of artisans and craftspeople, such as glass-blowers, blacksmiths, bookbinders, and potters. Other vendors include leather and costuming shops, weapon-crafters, and jewelry shops.\n\nThere are also a number of games of skill available for an additional fee, such as archery, axe-throwing, \"Tomato Justice\" (where participants pelt a man with ripe tomatoes). Several human-powered rides are available. \n\nVarious foods are available, including such Faire staples as turkey legs and shish-kabobs, but also including vegetarian items like portobello mushroom sandwiches and fresh fruit. The Rose & Crown Tavern (renamed in 2010 from the \"Bad Dog Tavern\") serves alcohol, including mead, and has a selection of meat pies, bacon-wrapped scallops, and other foods. In the past, the Tavern has featured live entertainment.\n\nIn 2008, for the first time, peace-tied period weapons were permitted.\n\n\n\nEach weekend has a formal theme that will often inform the storyline acted out by the townsfolk. Themes for 2016 were:\n\nPast themes include \"Romance Weekend\".\n\nThe Sterling Renaissance Festival was purchased in early 2008 by Doug Waterbury, who invested $2 million in the business. Several new stages were constructed and existing ones refurbished, and the number of performers was boosted for the 2008 season. Waterbury plans to use the site for additional events, and install a larger jousting theater which could also be used for outdoor concerts.\n\n"}
{"id": "41899251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41899251", "title": "Takashi Niigaki", "text": "Takashi Niigaki\n\nTakashi Niigaki was born in Tokyo. He is a Japanese composer and music teacher who served as the orchestrator and ghostwriter for Mamoru Samuragochi for 18 years, composing musical works that included the soundtracks for \"Resident Evil: Director's Cut Dual Shock Ver.\" and \"\". He also composed \"Hiroshima Symphony No 1\", previously credited to Samuragochi until February 2014, when Niigaki publicly revealed that he was the real composer.\n\nOn 5 February 2014, Niigaki publicly revealed that he was the ghostwriter behind most of the music previously attributed to Mamoru Samuragochi since 1996. Niigaki went to the press because one of Samuragochi's claimed compositions would be used by Japanese figure skater Daisuke Takahashi, at the then upcoming 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi.\n\nThe works below were formerly credited to Mamoru Samuragochi, but were later identified as having been composed by Niigaki.\n\n\nCompleted in 2003, \"Hiroshima\" was first played at a concert held to commemorate the meeting of the Group of Eight leaders in Hiroshima in 2008. It was released on CD in 2011 as part of the Nippon Columbia record label's 100th anniversary celebrations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26209915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26209915", "title": "Teatro Verdi (Florence)", "text": "Teatro Verdi (Florence)\n\nTeatro Verdi is a theatre in Florence, Italy. Established in 1854, it is located on Via Giuseppe Verdi on the block between Via Ghibellina and Via dei Lavatoi. The Teatro Verdi was originally called Teatro Pagliano, but was renamed in 1901 to honour Giuseppe Verdi. The theatre is located on the spot where there once stood the 14th-century Stinche Prison.\n\nThe theatres seats an audience of 806, including 6 reserved for wheelchairs. The stage is 14 metres deep and 18 metres wide, with a slope of 5%. The orchestra pit measures 16 metres by 4 metres. The proscenium is 12 metres wide and 17 metres high and 2 metres deep, and the stage is raised from the floor by 1.5 metres. The seven artists dressing rooms and two wards have access from Via Isola delle Stinche where there is also an infirmary.\n\n"}
{"id": "40468259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40468259", "title": "The Kelly Gang (play)", "text": "The Kelly Gang (play)\n\nThe Kelly Gang; or the Career of the Outlaw, Ned Kelly, the Ironclad Bushranger of Australia, is an 1899 Australian play about bushranger Ned Kelly. It is attributed to Arnold Denham but it is likely a number of other writers worked on it.\n\nContemporary reviews remarked on the similarities the play had with \"Robbery Under Arms\".\n\nDenham sued for copyright infringement against the producers of other plays about Ned Kelly including \"Outlaw Kelly\" in 1899 and \"The Kelly Gang\" in 1901 (the latter was appealed unsuccessfully).\n"}
{"id": "2547995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2547995", "title": "United Provinces of Central Italy", "text": "United Provinces of Central Italy\n\nThe United Provinces of Central Italy, also known as Confederation of Central Italy or Government General of Central Italy, was a short-lived military government established by the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia. It was formed by a union of the former Grand Duchy of Tuscany, Duchy of Parma, Duchy of Modena, and the Papal Legations, after their monarchs were ousted by popular revolutions.\n\nSince August 1859, the pro-Piedmontese regimes of Tuscany, Parma, Modena and the Papal Legations entered into a group of military treaties. On 7 November 1859, they elected Eugenio Emanuele di Savoia-Carignano as their regent. However, King Victor Emmanuel II of Savoy, who was allied to France which claimed a counterpart, refused to endorse the election, and sent Carlo Bon Compagni instead as the \"Governor General of Central Italy\", who was responsible for the diplomatic and military affairs of the states.\n\nOn 8 December 1859, Parma, Modena and the Papal Legations were incorporated into the Royal Provinces of Emilia. After plebiscites were held in March 1860, and France was granted Nice and Savoy, the territory was formally annexed to Piedmont-Sardinia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "652988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652988", "title": "West Coast Computer Faire", "text": "West Coast Computer Faire\n\nThe West Coast Computer Faire was an annual computer industry conference and exposition most often associated with San Francisco, its first and most frequent venue. The first fair was held in 1977 and was organized by Jim Warren and Bob Reiling. At the time, it was the biggest computer show in the world, intended to popularize the personal computer in the home. The West Coast PC Faire was formed to provide a more specialized show. However, Apple Inc. stopped exhibiting at the West Coast Computer Faire, refusing to exhibit at any show other than COMDEX that also had PC-based exhibits.\nIn 1983, Warren sold the rights to the Faire for US$3 million to Prentice Hall, who later sold it to Sheldon Adelson, the owner of Interface Group and COMDEX. In total, sixteen shows were held, with the last in 1991. After Warren sold the show, it had a few more good years, and then declined rapidly.\n\nSome people refer to the first fair as the birth of the personal computer industry. It took place on April 16–17, 1977, in San Francisco Civic Auditorium and Brooks Hall, and saw the debut of the Commodore PET, presented by Chuck Peddle, and the Apple II, presented by then-21-year-old Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak. At the exhibition, Jobs introduced the Apple II to Japanese textile maker Mizushima Satoshi, who became the first authorized Apple dealer in Japan.\n\nOther visitors included Tomio Gotō who developed the TK-80 and PC-8001, and Kazuhiko Nishi who produced the MSX. There were about 180 exhibitors, among them Intel, MITS, and Digital Research. More than 12,000 people visited the fair.\n\nThe 2nd West Coast Computer Faire was held March 3–5, 1978, at what was then the San Jose Convention Center (now Parkside Hall). This event had the first-ever microcomputer chess tournament, won by Sargon.\n\nThe 3rd West Coast Computer Faire was held on November 3–5, 1978, at the Los Angeles Convention Center.\n\nThe 4th West Coast Computer Faire returned to San Francisco in May 1979 at Brooks Hall and Civic Auditorium. Dan Bricklin demonstrated VisiCalc, the first spreadsheet program for personal computers.\n\nAt the 5th West Coast Computer Faire, held in March 1980, Microsoft announced their first hardware product, the Z-80 SoftCard, which gave the Apple II CP/M capabilities.\n\nThe 6th West Coast Computer Faire was held in April 1981, notable for being the venue where Adam Osborne introduced the Osborne 1.\n\nThe 7th West Coast Computer Faire saw the introduction of the 5 MB Winchester disk drive for IBM PCs by Davong Systems. It was held on March 19–21, 1982, in San Francisco. That year's conference also featured a Saturday breakout session, titled \"THE IBM PERSONAL COMPUTER\", with eight talks delivered in a three-hour period. One of these was (as listed in the program):\n\nAt its peak, all available spaces for exhibits were rented out, including the balcony of Civic Auditorium, and the hallway to the restrooms in Brooks Hall (where Bob Wallace (\"Quicksoft\") introduced \"PC Write\").\n\nThe 8th West Coast Computer Faire was held March 18–20, 1983.\n\nSubsequent West Coast Computer Faires were held in Moscone Center in San Francisco. After the 10th Faire, Bruce Webster wrote that \"Warren sold out just in time. The Faire is shrinking. It may not be dying, but it is no longer the important trade show it was two short years ago. Without the giant booths from IBM, Apple, and AT&T, the Faire would have looked like any other small, local, end-user show. The move to the Moscone Center didn't help that impression; a large chunk of the main floor was unused, adding to the impression of the Faire's shrunken size\".\n\nThe 16th West Coast Computer Faire was held from May 30 to June 2, 1991, at Moscone Center.\n\n\n"}
