{"id": "26876577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26876577", "title": "Australian Journal of Politics and History", "text": "Australian Journal of Politics and History\n\nThe Australian Journal of Politics and History is an academic journal that includes articles about history, political studies, and international affairs, concentrating on Australia, the Asia-Pacific region, and modern Europe. It was established in 1955 and was published triennially until 1997. In 1998 it began publishing quarterly. It is currently edited by Andrew Bonnell and Matt McDonald, both at the University of Queensland. It is published by Wiley-Blackwell.\n\nIt is indexed or abstracted in the following services:\n\nJournal homepage http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1111/(ISSN)1467-8497\n"}
{"id": "15366309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15366309", "title": "Avicenna Prize", "text": "Avicenna Prize\n\nThe Avicenna Prize for Ethics in Science is awarded every two years by UNESCO and rewards individuals and groups in the field of ethics in science.\n\nThe aim of the award is to promote ethical reflection on issues raised by advances in science and technology, and to raise global awareness of the importance of ethics in science. The prize was named after the 11th century Persian physician and philosopher Avicenna (980-1038).\n\nThe Prize consists of a gold medal, a certificate, USD$10,000, and a one-week academic visit to the Islamic Republic of Iran.\n\nSince it was founded, the award has been given to four individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10385908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10385908", "title": "Bibliography of the American Civil War", "text": "Bibliography of the American Civil War\n\nThe American Civil War bibliography comprises books that deal in large part with the American Civil War. There are over 60,000 books on the war, with more appearing each month. James Lincoln Collier and Christopher Collier stated in 2012, \"No event in American history has been so thoroughly studied, not merely by historians, but by tens of thousands of other Americans who have made the war their hobby. Perhaps a hundred thousand books have been published about the Civil War.\" \n\nThere is no complete bibliography to the war; the largest guide to books is over 40 years old and lists over 6,000 of the most valuable titles as evaluated by three leading scholars. Many specialized topics such as Abraham Lincoln, women, and medicine have their own lengthy bibliographies. The books on major campaigns typically contain their own specialized guides to the sources and literature. The most comprehensive guide to the historiography annotates over a thousand major titles, with an emphasis on military topics. The most recent guide to literary and non-military topics is \"A History of American Civil War Literature\" (2016) edited by Coleman Hutchison. It emphasizes cultural studies, memory, diaries, southern literary writings, and famous novelists.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFor the most recent surveys see:\n\nFor a guide to the bibliography see: \n\nFor a guide to web sources see:\n\nFor an older short survey that is online and won the Pulitzer Prize (1918), see:\n\n \n"}
{"id": "8599930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8599930", "title": "Chocolá", "text": "Chocolá\n\nChocolá is a Preclassic Southern Maya site whose developmental emphasis was from ca. 1000 BC to AD 200. The site lies within the Southern Maya area.\n\nChocolá is in the San Pablo Jocopilas municipality in the southern Suchitepéquez department of Guatemala. A modern village lies on top of and within the ancient site.\n\nLying on a plateau below volcanic mountain ridges to the north and east, and at a height of 500–1000 meters, the site consists of three general groupings extending over ca. 6 by 2 kilometers, oriented north-to-south. To the north, great platform mounds consisted of elite residences, with elaborate hydraulic networks of stone-lined canals bringing water in from underground springs.\n\nIn these precincts, large palaces were built; from Structure 7-1, ca. 25 by 25 meters and 5 meters high, caches of fine complete vessels were recovered, likely dedicatory offerings placed during the construction of the edifice.\n\nIn the ancient central district further south, pyramidal mounds up to 25 meters held administrative structures. Archaeoastronomical research has tentatively identified crucial alignments from structures in the administrative center of the city that reflect primordial measurements that underlay development of the Maya calendar. Still further south, flatter areas contained commoner houses and workshops. Thus far, hundreds of thousands of artifacts have been found, including many whole vessels, sculptured monuments and altars, and figurines, most dating to the Preclassic. Around the site are caves still sacred to local ritualists.\n\nResearchers have hypothesized that one reason for the early development of such high complexity at Chocolá is the intensive cultivation of cacao for long-distance trade. Based on older as well as still accumulating evidence, scholars assume that innovative developments occurred in the southern Mesoamerican area during the Preclassic period (1500 BC – AD 200) that strongly influenced the later great Mesoamerican civilizations. However, scholars lack a clear sense of even the broader events and processes that shaped southern Guatemala's history and gave it its peculiar and, as long assumed, seminal character. Investigations at Kaminaljuyu, in the central Guatemalan highlands, and Takalik Abaj, in southwestern Guatemala, over recent decades showed the strong relationship between these two regions. These centers, along with other nearby sites, like Chocolá, participated in distinct political networks and shared ideologies, technologies, and economics.\n\nChocola also participated in the Potbelly sculpture tradition. One such monument was found there.\n\nA complex of more than 100 structures was discovered by Karl Sapper in the last years of the 19th century and a few mounds were excavated by Robert Burkitt in the 1920s. The discovery by Burkitt of Monument 1, a stela carved in the \"Miraflores\" style, sparked interest among scholars, suggestive as it was that Chocolá may have been an important polity early on with distinct political connections with Kaminaljuyu. This stela bears extraordinary similarities both in style and content to Kaminaljuyu Stela 10, a gigantic throne and the site's single largest monument. In 2003, long-term excavations were initiated by the Proyecto Arqueologico Chocola (PACH). These investigations are exploring the social and cultural developments that led to the rise of the Classic Maya, with sophisticated city-states, hieroglyphic literacy, exquisite ceramics, and the most advanced mathematics and astronomy in the New World.\n\nAlso in 2003 a large portion of work was focused on the division of Chocolá into three different sectors, a northern elite sector, a central administrative sector, and a southern commoner and agricultural sector. In succeeding field seasons, evidence from the first field season of subterranean water conduits was expanded to reveal an extensive water management system. Also, excavations of three structures in the north sector of the city of large, grouped edifices and platforms, included one very large elite palace structure. Excavations in the central, presumed administrative sector of particularly large pyramidal mounds revealed a very early (Middle Preclassic, or ca. 800 BC) earthen edifice. In the southern sector, excavation of a very large platform with a cobble wall recovered evidence suggesting agricultural management.\n\nIn 2017, cacao residues in ten vessels from the site, all Preclassic in style, were identified at the Hershey Company laboratory </ref>(Kaplan et al. 2017)</ref>, lending greater weight to the theory that cacao arboriculture existed at Chocolá early in the trajectory of Maya civilization. If Chocolá grew cacao intensively, it likely would have traded this commodity, so highly valued by the ancient Maya and other ancient Mesoamerican cultures. Given the long-standing accumulation of evidence of high or advanced hallmark traits of Maya civilization - writing, the stela-altar complex and \"kingship,\" the Maya calendar - appearing first in the Southern Maya Region, PACH investigators have proposed a material basis for the emergence of at least some of these traits, based on the discovery of the sophisticated water management system and of possible cacao cultivation and trade.\n\nDiscovered between 2003 and 2005, networks of stone-lined or stone-enclosed drains and conduits, extending at least 1.5 kilometers, demonstrate sophisticated hydraulics. Radiocarbon dating situates the system in the Late Middle Preclassic period, or as early as 500 BC. Early and later Post-Conquest ethnohistory attests that Soconusco, Suchitepéquez, and Escuintla were important centers for the production of cacao, a high water-demand plant. The same ethnohistory records very dense populations at the time of the Conquest and fierce fighting between various caciques for control of cacao in an area where today one finds Mazatenango, Cuyotenango, Zapotitlán, San Antonio, and Samayac, all indicated by ethnohistory to have been significant centers of cacao production and trade, and all clustered closely around the Chocolá site. While such ethnohistoric information cannot be relied on as direct evidence to characterize events and processes from millennia earlier, it seems reasonable to use these data as a guide for what one could look for, including evidence of large-scale exchange, perhaps most plausibly, of obsidian for cacao. If, indeed, archaeological evidence can be found to support intensive cacao cultivation at and around Chocolá, a yet stronger case will be made for the Southern Maya area as crucial to the rise of Maya civilization.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "61567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61567", "title": "Christoph Hartknoch", "text": "Christoph Hartknoch\n\nChristoph Hartknoch (1644–1687) was a Prussian historian and educator.\n\nHartknoch was born in Jablonken (Jabłonka) near Ortelsburg (Szczytno) in the Duchy of Prussia. In 1650 the family moved to Passenheim (Pasym) and there witnessed the brutality and horrors of the Tatar attacks, fighting for the Kingdom of Poland, in southern Prussia. His life was saved by his teacher, who shoved him out the window. Numerous villages in the region were destroyed, but Hartknoch made it to the ducal capital of Königsberg.\n\nIn Königsberg Hartknoch started studying theology at a Protestant institute. Soon after his parents died and he had to take on jobs. He became a private teacher in Kaunas and then a rector in the Protestant school in Vilnius. He soon returned to Königsberg where books and records interested him in history.\n\nIn 1679 Hartknoch published a book about Prussian history, \"Old and New Prussia\", first in Latin and then in German, as well as a history of the church in Prussia. The works are accompanied by descriptions and illustrations of people, history, and culture, as well as copper etching illustrations of towns. He received ethnographical information from the priest Matthäus Prätorius.\n\nHartknoch's work in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, Kaunas, and Vilnius awoke his interest in their history. He wrote a comprehensive work on the Commonwealth spanning 300 years, the first of its kind.\n\nIn 1677 the city of Toruń (Thorn) invited Hartknoch to become director at its gymnasium, where he worked for ten years. Wearied by poverty, Hartknoch died and was buried there in 1687 at the age of 43.\n\nHartknoch's extensive scientific body of works contributed greatly to knowledge of Prussia, Pomerania, Samogitia, Courland, and Poland.\n\nIn his book covering the history of Prussia, Hartknoch features an illustration of Nicolaus Copernicus. Hartknoch wrote: \"About the cities and castles. The famous mathematician Nicolaus Copernicus\". The book was written later in Hartknoch's life, when he was director at the .\n\n"}
{"id": "44052925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44052925", "title": "Citizenship test", "text": "Citizenship test\n\nA citizenship test is an examination, written or oral, required to achieve citizenship in a country.\n\nThe requirements of a citizenship test is a method to control immigration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38978504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38978504", "title": "Climate change and gender", "text": "Climate change and gender\n\nClimate change and gender is concerned with gender differences in the context of climate change and the complex and intersecting power relations arising from it. By altering the ecosystems of the planet, climate change, and more specifically global warming, directly impacts the human race. These effects vary for different segments of the population, specifically for people of different genders. In many cases, women are more vulnerable to the negative effects of climate change because of their lower social status in most countries. Many impoverished women, especially those in the developing world, are farmers and depend on the natural environment for subsistence and income. By further limiting their already constrained access to physical, social, political, and fiscal resources, climate change often burdens women more than men.\n\nLocally and globally, both governments and non-governmental organizations respond to climate change. Some of these efforts focus on mitigating the effects of climate change while others aid societies in adapting their lifestyles to changes in their environment. Most policy responses in the late 20th and early 21st century either did not focus on the social effects of climate change or did not consider gender in these efforts.\n\nAnalysis of gender in climate change, however, not only means applying a binary male/female system of analysis on sets of quantitative data but also scrutinizing discursive constructions that shapes power relations connected to climate change.\n\nClimate change is a lasting variation in the global climate in response to natural and/or human factors. Climate change, and more specifically global warming, can cause glaciers to melt and sea levels to rise, pushing saltwater into freshwater systems. Significant changes like the salinization of water push species to new locations, directly impacting global ecosystems. Climatic changes affect weather patterns, increasing the frequency and intensity of floods, droughts, and extreme weather events. These types of conditions also result in natural disasters. While climate change is not solely destructive, the negative impacts of global warming on health and agriculture are greater than the benefits for the majority of the world and increase as global temperatures rise. A two-degree rise in temperature threatens 25 percent of all plant and animal species on the planet with extinction. These climatic changes cause the most harm for the most vulnerable populations or those who lack the ability to cope with and adapt to climate change because of a lack of access to essential resources. Marginalized groups like women, children, the elderly, and the impoverished have less access to and control over resources and therefore are more negatively impacted by climate change.\n\nGender is the collective social differences between males and females, as determined by culture. Gender is one of many components of vulnerability to climatic change. Changes in the climate affect genders differently, magnifying existing gender inequality. Both women and men are affected by and vulnerable to climate change and global warming, but women often bear more of the burden. This higher vulnerability is mostly not due to biological or physical differences, but is formed by the social, institutional and legal context. Subsequently, Vulnerability is less an intrinsic feature of women and girls but rather a product of their marginalization.\n\nAccordingly, a study by the London School of Economics found that, in natural disasters in 141 countries, gender differences in deaths correlated to women’s economic and social rights in those countries. Due to their social standing, women in developing countries are not generally taught survival skills like swimming or climbing, meaning they are more likely to die in a natural disaster. When women have fewer rights and less power in society, more of them die due to climate change, but when there are equal rights for all groups, death rates are more equally matched.\n\nThe poor and impoverished are dependent on the environment and its natural resources for subsistence and income; poverty research reveals that many of the poor are women because, as a group, they have less social power.\nMany women in developing countries are farmers, but women as a group have trouble obtaining education, income, land, livestock, and technology, meaning climate change may negatively impact female farmers more than male farmers by further limiting their resources. In 2009, women produced between 60 and 80 percent of all food in the developing world, yet they owned ten percent of all agricultural land and approximately two percent of land rights.\n\nAs the planet warms and access to water changes, the crop yields tend to decrease. These effects are not uniform, and they have the largest impact on areas of the world where the economy depends on agriculture and the climate is sensitive to change. In developing countries, women are often in charge of obtaining water, firewood, and other resources for their families, but these resources are directly impacted by climate change, meaning women must travel further and work longer to access them during crisis. Climate change increases burdens placed on women by society and further limits their access to education and employment.\n\nNatural disasters disrupt daily routines and complicate gender and family roles, which can cause victims of natural disasters to feel powerless and frustrated. These feelings often result in aggression against less powerful groups. Women and children in developed and developing countries are at higher risk of sexual abuse during and after natural disasters than before. Condom use during disasters is also lower than at other times, because of decreased access to condoms. Combined with the accelerated spread of diseases and infections in developing countries, the breakdown of the social order and the malnourishment that sometimes accompanies climate change have led to higher rates of dengue fever, malaria, HIV, and STI transmission, especially for women. Elderly women are also particularly at risk during natural disasters and times of crisis because they are more susceptible to climatically-induced health risks like disease and because they are often isolated from social support to which men and some younger women have access.\n\nNot only the impacts of The IPCC Fifth Assessment Report concludes that there is ‘robust evidence’ for an increase of gender inequalities as a result of weather events as well as for the perpetuation of differential vulnerabilities. The increase of inequalities due to climate change can have several reasons. For example, girls often face more serious risks than boys due to unequal distribution of scarce resources within the household. This effect is amplified by climate change induced resource scarcity.\nFurthermore, Climate change often results in an increase of out-migration of men. This leaves women with an increased work-load at home, resulting in a \"feminization of responsibilities\". Climate change is predicted to increase frequency and magnitude of natural hazards such as extreme heat. During and after these hazards especially women are burdened with increased care work for children, the sick and old, adding furthermore to already significant amount of household duties.\n\nSome scholars believe that climate change policy that does not address gender is not effective. Much of the climate change policy created before the 21st century focused on economic rather than social effects of climatic change and global warming. Climate change research and policy began to look at gender in the 21st century. The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), the Millennium Development Goals, and the Beijing Platform for Action are all gender-aware initiatives that may affect climate change policy. While women in rural areas depend on the environment heavily, they are not usually represented in climate change decision-making processes, whether those processes are adaptative or mitigative.\n\nSome of the international responses to climate change that do not address gender or employ gender-sensitive approaches include Agenda 21, the Rio Declaration on the Environment and Development, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the Kyoto Protocol, the Bali Action Plan, and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). As of 2009, the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) is the only international climate change response to have incorporated gender dimensions.\n\nMitigative policy attempts to moderate the intensity of global warming’s effects through measures like reducing greenhouse gases and enhancing sinks. According to research, men and women use their knowledge of their environments to mitigate disasters, transferring this knowledge through informal education. Some of this knowledge includes food preservation processes, methods of construction, and understanding of natural resources in the area. Examples of mitigative efforts include carbon emissions trading. Mitigative efforts largely ignore gender.\n\nAdaptive policy involves spontaneous or planned efforts to tolerate the negative effects of climate change and take advantage of the beneficial effects. Men and women respond differently to climate change and subsequently also to adaptation measures, which can affect men and women unequally, when the gender perspective is ignored in the policy. For example, the IPCC report AR5 points out that adaptation measures in agriculture can in some cases lead to increased gender inequalities.\n\nWomen can be important players in climate change policy because they have gendered knowledge about things like managing water resources. CARE’s research shows that, when women are in control of the family income, it is more likely to be spent on human development. Women are also generally more risk averse than men and make safer decisions. Yet, in 2008, the EU Commission and Council on adaptation policy did not address gender at all. Furthermore, gender roles and subsequent institutional and social pressures can pose constraints to adaptive capacities. One research by Jabeen points out the impact of spatial practices that manifest power relations and marginalise women. This decreases the ability of women to make decisions and subsequently their adaptive capacity. Some feminist scholars therefore maintain that fundamental patriarchal structures are mainly responsible for the inability to adapt to and mitigate climate change.\n\nSome scholars recommend incorporating gender dimensions into research and using human-rights approaches like the Millennium Development Goals and CEDAW as frameworks for climate change responses. Several organizations believe that linking mitigation and adaptation approaches, equally funding both types of efforts, and integrating gender into mitigative and adaptive policies will better address the consequences of climate change. The UNDP mandates gender mainstreaming in all adaptation measures, meaning adaptive responses to climate change must consider gender and gender equality from their inception and cannot incorporate a gender component late in their development or only in certain areas. Others believe that imposing mainstreaming agendas on communities can make gender-sensitive policy less effective and may even be counter-productive, emphasizing gender differences and isolating gender issues from other areas affected by climate change. Most scholars and organizations working to address climate change agree that policy-makers must work with both women and men and take them into consideration at all levels.\n\nIn 2009, a forest-protection mechanism called Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD) was agreed upon by attendees of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. Many development organizations praise the REDD mechanism, but others criticize its function as a market-based instrument and its impact on local communities.\n\nGender inequalities do not only emerge in context of climate change as a physical reality, but also within discourses of and negotiations over climate change. This is reflected in the fact that men are dominant in all levels of climate change debate – from the science to policy, from the local to the global level. \nThis has an effect on climate change policies. Roehr notes that, while the United Nations officially committed to gender mainstreaming, in practice gender equality is not reached in the context of climate change. Little data and research results in insufficient gender awareness in enacted gender policies.\n\nContribution to climate change is correlated to gender. A study on car use in Sweden for example found that men are more likely to use the car more, for longer distances and alone compared to women, thereby exhausting more CO2 than women. A study of young people in Finland shows that concern over climate change has a higher impact on climate friendly consumption in women compared to men.\nThis may be incidental to differences in perception of climate change. Women tend to agree with the scientific opinion that anthropogenic pollution is mainly responsible for climate change (m: 56%, f: 64%) and are more concerned about its effects: 29% of men and 35% of women in the US \"worry about global warming a great deal\".\nWomen furthermore possess unique skills and knowledge, which are important in building equal and sustainable responses to climate change. The UNFPA report State of world population 2009 - Facing a changing world: women, population and climate identifies women as important actors in mobilizing against climate change. The report quotes Wangari Maathai that “Women hold the key to Climate’s Future”; “when we talk about reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation, we need to focus on women […]”\n\nAccording to a survey conducted IPCC WGI Co-Chairs and Technical Support Unit (TSU) on April 25, 2014, many of the polled authors stated that they saw the need for a better gender balance. This is reflected in the gender balance of contributors to the fifth IPCC assessment report. Only 27% of contributors to Working Group II, concerned with impacts, adaptation and vulnerability and 18,5% of contributors of Working Group I, concerned with the physical science basis, are female. This also applies to other organisation, as for example only 7% of leadership positions in the offices of National Weather Services are women. On a similar note, a study conducted by the University of Oxford in cooperation with the Nielsen Company found that 18 of the 22 ‘most influential spokespeople on climate change’ are male. Female spokespeople were neither politicians nor scientists and their direct connection to climate change is therefore doubtful. A list of prominent women scientists is available at Women in climate change.\nSome feminist scholars hold that the debate on climate change is not only dominated by men but also primarily shaped in ‘masculine’ principles, which limits discussions about climate change to a perspective that focuses on technical solutions. This perception of climate change hides subjectivity and power relations that actually condition climate change policy and science, leading to a phenomenon that Tuana terms ‘epistemic injustice’.\nSimilarly, MacGregor criticizes the scientific discourse from a less quantitative perspective but focusses on discursive aspects. She attests that by framing climate change as an issue of ‘hard’ natural scientific conduct and natural security, it is kept within the traditional domains of hegemonic masculinity. \nSeager maintains that the 2 °C aim, which is a reoccurring topic in the climate change debate, is not, as often assumed, a safe goal for all people on the planet. Rather it will ensure the stability of a patriarchal capitalism and subsequently the continuity of power for those who are powerful today.\n\nBangladesh is prone to flooding and waterlogging because of its location as a river delta. In 2012, it was labeled a Least Developed Country by the United Nations, with high rates of poverty and weak government, meaning it is especially vulnerable to natural disasters. It is densely populated and about 63 percent of its population was working in the agriculture, forestry, or fishing sectors in 2010. Slightly less than half of Bangladesh’s population is women and, in 2001, 80 percent of women lived in rural areas. Bangladeshi women are particularly vulnerable to climate change because they have limited mobility and power in society. Research shows that, after the cyclone and flooding of 1991, Bangladeshi women aged 20–44 had a much higher death rate than men of the same age: 71 per 1000, compared to 15 per 1000 for men. Even if a cyclone warning is issued, many women die because they must wait at home for their relatives to return before they can seek shelter.\n\nAs climate change progresses, access to and salinization of water sources are becoming problems in Bangladesh. When there is a lack of drinking water, women are responsible for procuring it regardless of the distance they must travel or the terrain they must cover. During natural disasters, male unemployment rises. When men become unemployed, women's responsibilities increase because they must secure and manage income and resources on top of feeding the family and caring for children and the elderly. As the number of men at home without income or occupation rises, more women report mental and physical abuse by their male relatives. To cope with climatic change, women store matches, food for the family, fodder for the livestock, medicine, and fuel sources in safe places in case of disaster. They also teach their children skills such as swimming to prepare them for crisis. The global relief agency CARE believes that climate-resilient jobs such as duck rearing can help increase Bangladeshi women’s resilience to climate change.\n\nSince the disasters of 1991, Bangladeshi women are more involved in disaster response decision-making, through local committees and community organizations established by the government and NGOs. As part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change's National Adaptation Programme of Action (NAPA), Bangladesh published a Poverty Reduction Strategy paper in 2005 that incorporated gender mainstreaming into its climate change adaptation plan, but as of 2008 those goals and policies were not fully implemented.\n\nIn 2010, South Africa was the region with the largest economy in Africa, yet more than half of the population lived in poverty and many were unemployed. Impoverished populations of South Africa depend heavily on agriculture and natural resources to live. Coal and metal ore mining were also significant contributing sectors of the economy, but are decreasing in the 21st century due to climate change and globalization. In 2007, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) predicted that Africa would warm due to climate change 1.5 times more than the rest of the world and that South Africa, specifically, would be 3 - 4 °C warmer by 2100. Water, agriculture, mining, and forestry would all be affected by these changes in temperature and weather. The Human Sciences Research Council found in 2004 that 57% of South Africa's poor were at risk for negative climate change effects because they depended on rain-fed agriculture and climate change in Africa was expected to cause longer and more intense periods of drought over time. Many of the rural poor in South Africa are women who have only limited access to property, income, credit, resources, and social power.\n\nIn South Africa, men traditionally look after the livestock while women look over the garden, but in extended periods of drought, many households lose their livestock. In response to this loss and to increasing unemployment, men are turning to alcohol to deal with the psychological stress. Some are also increasing their number of sexual partners, increasing their risk of contracting or spreading HIV. In response to these changes, more women are entering the workforce, either formally or informally. Some are now working in traditionally male occupations like mining and construction. Others are making and selling goods locally. Social grants from the South African government further support households affected by the changing climate. These grants include pensions, disability payments, and child support. In some cases, when men are responsible for the distribution of social grants in the household instead of women, they use the money to purchase alcohol. In response, the government tends to give grant money to women, which can cause domestic disputes within households.\n\nUnderstanding of climate change in South Africa is based mainly on experience and local knowledge, which is communicated orally. Women tend to hold more of this knowledge than men do because of their experience with farming and gardening. In response to drought, some women plant crops near wetlands or other water sources. They also preserve food for periods of drought or crop failure. Despite their knowledge of climate change, many responses in South Africa (like the South African Country Study on Climate Change Vulnerability & Adaptation Assessment) do not address gender. While women in South Africa are represented in the government on a provincial level, there are not many women in government at a municipal level.\n\nThe Climate & Development Knowledge Network commissioned a film to be made on the impact of climate change women in India. Directed by Krishnendu Bose, the film looks at the way in which women, who make up two thirds of the farming workforce, are poorly represented in agricultural policy. It depicts the challenges faced by rural women working in agriculture where drought and flooding is harming their livelihoods and ability to farm vegetables and fish. It shows isolated stories of success where resourceful techniques are integrated into farming despite challenges from climate change and poverty, such as Rita Kamila, who feeds her chickens over her flooded fields in order to grow the number of fish that now live in her fields. She is able to earn money from the growing fish stock. The film calls upon policy makers to support local initiatives like Rita's to bolster the resilience to climate change and to enhance the work that the women are already doing to protect communities against its risks. Currently only land owning farmers are entitled to government schemes, but only 10% of land owning farmers are women, thus it is critical to scale up women's access to government schemes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44237411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44237411", "title": "Connecticut Critics Circle", "text": "Connecticut Critics Circle\n\nThe Connecticut Critics Circle is an organization of reviewers, feature writers, columnists, and broadcasters throughout Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and New York. It was founded in 1990\n\n\"To honor the actors, directors, designers and others who help make professional Connecticut theater so outstanding. ... The organization's members also meet to discuss issues regarding theater criticism. Additionally, it invites prominent guest speakers to address the membership in meetings that are open to the public.\"\n\nTheir annual awards are considered prestigious\n\nThe Tom Killen Memorial Award \"is bestowed upon those who have made extraordinary contributions to Connecticut's Equity professional theater.\" Gordon Edelstein won that award, among others, including Outstanding Director of a Play for Uncle Vanya in 2007.\n\nJeff Kready received a Connecticut Critics Circle Nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Musical.\n\nJeremy Jordan was nominated in 2008 for his role as Alex in \"The Little Dog Laughed\" at Hartford Theatreworks\n\nJoyce Ebert earned a special achievement award in 1996 for \"30 years of \"outstanding contribution to a theater in Connecticut.\"\n\nDavid Esbjornson\n\nFrank Ferrante for his portrayal of Captain Spalding in Animal Crackers at Goodspeed Opera House\n"}
{"id": "3350312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3350312", "title": "Corruption in local government", "text": "Corruption in local government\n\nBecause there are many factors that can lead to corruption in local government it is hard to study corruption patterns empirically, but recently, improved research strategies and information sources have made such studies better.\n\nThere are several types of political corruption that occur in local government. Some are more common than others, and some are more prevalent to local governments than to larger segments of government. Local governments may be more susceptible to corruption because interactions between private individuals and officials happen at greater levels of intimacy and with more frequency at more decentralized levels. Forms of corruption pertaining to money like bribery, extortion, embezzlement, and graft are found in local government systems. Other forms of political corruption are nepotism and patronage systems. One historical example was the Black Horse Cavalry a group of New York state legislators accused of blackmailing corporations.\n\nSocioeconomic characteristics and the size of the population of people that make up a municipality can be encouraging factors for local government officials to engage in corrupt practices. Patterns of political corruption can be found in places that have a similar demographic make-up. Demographic factors that have been known to lead to or increase the likelihood of corruption in a local government system are religion, race, class, size of the municipality, local economic conditions, education, political culture, and gender. Some factors are interrelated or can lead to other factors which may cause more corruption. \n\nSmaller municipalities tend to encourage corruption to take place within a local government. Smaller municipalities require more local officials to represent and run the local government. With more officials, it is harder to keep tabs on each one and establish a decent administration and to monitor their activities.Small municipalities may also have inadequate or insufficient policing and prosecution of corrupt local officials. This also encourages corruption to occur in local government because there is less likelihood of either getting caught or prosecuted, therefore, more officials may become dishonest or at least be tempted to.\n\nLow economic development has been found to be an encouraging factor for political corruption. Economic practices like dependence on raw material industries and drug trades are characteristic of poorer cities and areas with increased amounts of corruption. Economic dependence on certain industries will also lead to less stable governments and less money available to fund governments. Fragile economies lead to increased levels of poverty and less opportunities to get out of poverty. Poverty is a known factor that encourages corruption in local governments. Places with failing economies and poverty sometimes get loans or start aid programs to support the local economy and the people, and public officials are often able to unlawfully take the money or goods for private gain. With less money available, local officials are more likely to get lower wages, which is seen as another factor that leads to corruption. Officials who get lower wages, which are not enough to provide for their necessities, will many times become corrupt and try something like embezzling money that may entrusted to them in the local treasury. Low wages can cause economic insecurity and encourage politicians to take advantage of current opportunities as public figures of authority. On the other hand, some researchers argue that the more money a local government has to spend, the more tendency it will have to do so inefficiently, which can lead to suspicions of corruption. Overall, poorer municipalities are more often perceived to have corrupt local governments than rich ones.\n\nLower levels of education which are often caused by poverty are seen as a factor which encourages corrupt government practices. Those with less education are not as informed as to how the government works or what rights they have under the government. It is easier for corrupt office-holders to conceal corrupt activities from a poorly educated public. Uneducated citizens are less likely to be aware of corruption in local governments or how to stop it, and therefore, corruption is able to remain and spread. Without some kind of political awareness, citizens will not know which candidates to elect that are honest or dishonest or other ways to prevent corruption from taking place in their local governments. This often leads municipalities to be continually governed by one or more corrupt local officials who use patronage or nepotistic practices to stay in office or keep influence in the government for long periods of time. When local political leaders are less educated, they will be less likely to find legitimate ways to make the municipality well-structured, productive, and successful.\n\nMany local governments have an established political culture with certain expectations and practices that often determine what is seen as acceptable and not acceptable in local politics. In municipalities with an undeveloped or underdeveloped political culture, accountability and legitimacy is usually low and principles of ethics in government are not established. This can encourage corruption to take hold in the local government because citizens do not know what is considered corrupt, and local officials are not afraid to be corrupt because of the low accountability.In some places the local governments have been corrupt for so long that the citizens think that is how it is supposed to work because that is all they have been exposed to. Long periods of political instability will also lead to corruption in the government because people are unsure of how the government should operate, and thus do not know what practices are corrupt or how to stop them if they are corrupt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46911588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46911588", "title": "Crown rabbi (Russia)", "text": "Crown rabbi (Russia)\n\nCrown rabbi () was a position in the Russian Empire given to a member of a Jewish community appointed to act as an intermediary between his community and the Imperial government, to perform certain civil duties such as registering births, marriages, and divorces. Because their main job qualification was fluency in Russian, crown rabbis were typically considered agents of the state by members of their own communities, not true rabbis, and they often had no education in or knowledge of Jewish law.\n\nThe origins of the crown rabbinate in Imperial Russia date to the early 19th century and administrative requirements by the tsar that the Jewish community maintain and provide civil records to the Imperial government in the Russian language.\n\nThe Russian government viewed all permissible religions as agents of the state. Russian Orthodox priests, Mennonite ministers, Catholics as well as Jewish rabbiswere all required to perform certain civil duties such as registering births, deaths, and marriages, as well as other duties. The Russians found this arrangement useful, and employed designated members of these religious communities at a tiny salary (which could be augmented by bribes by the ambitious) to perform these official functions.\n\nUkases by Tsar Alexander I (reigned 18011825) required the rabbis to maintain civil information in Russian as well as Hebrew. Rabbis in the Empire all spoke Hebrew and Yiddish, but few could speak Russian or other languages considered useful by the Empire such as German and Polish. For this reason, the Jewish communities chose an individual familiar with Russian and other required languages to perform this role, and put his name forward. If approved by the governmental administration, they became \"official\" rabbis, in the sense that they acted as the intermediary between their community and the Imperial government for the required civil and other administrative duties the government required of them.\n\nSince rabbis most often did not speak Russian, the men put forth by the community typically were men who were not rabbis, and often they were not even particularly familiar with Jewish law. Because of this, they were looked down upon by their communities as agents or puppets of the government, and not real rabbis, despite the title accorded them by the state.\n\nThis new position became more formalized under Tsar Nicholas I (reigned 18251855). In 1835, new laws established these appointees as employees and officials of the Imperial government. While continuing their record-keeping duties as before, they were also now given religious authority by the state and were also to maintain loyalty to the state among their community. It was under these new regulations that those occupying these official posts came to be called \"crown rabbis\".\n\nA crown rabbi was either appointed, or elected by members of the Jewish community in which he resided. In Kiev, shortly after Jewish residents were permitted to settle in the city in 1861, a crown rabbi was appointed. But the local community objected, and wished to elect someone with the education and stature that they could respect, and elected their own man, Evsei Tsukkerman, instead. He was then approved by the government, and took up the position of crown rabbi.\n\nThe crown rabbinate evolved, and by mid-century the government opened its own seminaries for training rabbis (supported by taxes on Jewish communities) with a strong secular syllabus promoting the interests of the state. The training was seven years undergraduate, followed by three years training in pedagogy or rabbinical studies. Secular subjects were mandatory; the syllabus did include Rabbinic training (Talmud, halakha) at the graduate level, but was optional and few graduates took it.\n\nThe first graduates emerged in the 1850s, and by the following decade, new laws were passed obliging the Jewish communities to hire these graduates, although there was a lot of resistance to them as they were viewed as poorly or uneducated in Jewish matters important to the community, and a bad influence because of their years of secular indoctrination. Few graduates found positions, and the number of them graduating went down to a trickle. Finally, the government closed the schools down in 1873, realizing that the Jewish community regarded them as unfit for the honored position of rabbi. The position of crown rabbi outlasted the schools, and while the government viewed the crown rabbis as being the only official rabbis, the communities continued to have rabbis schooled in the traditional ways, with the result that many communities had two rabbis, an \"official\" one for dealing with the Tsar, and a \"spiritual\" rabbi for dealing with all the traditional religious and family roles that rabbis usually dealt with. The official rabbis were universally viewed as agents of the state by the Jewish communities.\n\nThe problem of the \"dual rabbinate\" continued until the 20th century and World War I, with debates raging within the community itself about how to view and react to the situation. The Orthodox accepted only their traditional spiritual rabbis as legitimate, while progressive Jews thought that rabbis should also play a role in secular concerns such as social, economic, and intellectual aspects of their communities. Crown rabbis continued to perform their official duties all during this debate, and attended various Russian Rabbinic Congresses, such as the one in 1910.\n\nAt the 1910 Rabinic conference the objective was to get rid of the Crown Rabbinate entirely, but this ran into problems because the Orthodox delegates by and large refused to encourage or require their (legitimate, spiritual, educated) rabbis to take on the administrative tasks fulfilled by the crown rabbis because that would require their learning Russian and to submit to the licensing authority of the Russian state which was far too much in the secular domain for an Orthodox rabbi to go. This caused a split among the delegates among those who saw nothing wrong with learning Russian and even thought it would avoid much of the misery the Jews had undergone, however this resulted in a stalemate and no new decisions were taken about it.\n\nVarious men who became well known in the Jewish community initially served as a crown rabbi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58561613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58561613", "title": "Dawn Creekmore", "text": "Dawn Creekmore\n\nDawn Creekmore (born February 28, 1965) is an American politician who served in the Arkansas House of Representatives from the 27th district from 2005 to 2011.\n"}
{"id": "22807800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22807800", "title": "Edinburgh Festival Fringe 2001", "text": "Edinburgh Festival Fringe 2001\n\nThe 2001 Edinburgh Festival Fringe was the 54th Edinburgh Festival Fringe. The Fringe ran from 5–27 August 2001 and presented 1462 shows over 176 venues.\n\nWeek One: \n\nWeek Two: \n\nWeek Three: \n\nWinner:\n\nNominees:\n\nWinner:\n\nNominees:\n"}
{"id": "169696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169696", "title": "Falconry", "text": "Falconry\n\nFalconry is the hunting of wild animals in their natural state and habitat by means of a trained bird of prey. There are two traditional terms used to describe a person involved in falconry: a falconer flies a falcon; an austringer (German origin) flies a hawk (\"Accipiter\" and some buteos and similar) or an eagle (\"Aquila\" or similar). In modern falconry, the red-tailed hawk (\"Buteo jamaicensis\"), the Harris's hawk (\"Parabuteo unicinctus\"), and the peregrine falcon (\"Falco perigrinus\") are some of the more commonly used birds of prey. The practice of hunting with a conditioned falconry bird is also called \"hawking\" or \"gamehawking\", although the words \"hawking\" and \"hawker\" have become used so much to refer to petty traveling traders, that the terms \"falconer\" and \"falconry\" now apply to most use of trained birds of prey to catch game. Many contemporary practitioners still use these words in their original meaning, however.\n\nIn early English falconry literature, the word \"falcon\" referred to a female falcon only, while the word \"hawk\" or \"hawke\" referred to a female hawk. A male hawk or falcon was referred to as a \"tiercel\" (sometimes spelled \"tercel\") as it was roughly one third less than the female in size.\nEvidence suggests that the art of falconry may have begun in Mesopotamia, with the earliest accounts dating to approximately 2,000 BC. There are also some raptor representations in the northern Altai, western Mongolia. The falcon was a symbolic bird of ancient Mongol tribes. There is some disagreement about whether such early accounts document the practice of falconry (from The Epic of Gilgamesh and others) or are misinterpreted depictions of humans with birds of prey. During the Turkic Period of Central Asia (7th century AD), concrete figures of falconer on horseback were described on the rocks in Kyrgyz. Falconry was probably introduced to Europe around AD 400, when the Huns and Alans invaded from the East. Frederick II of Hohenstaufen (1194–1250) is generally acknowledged as the most significant wellspring of traditional falconry knowledge. He is believed to have obtained firsthand knowledge of Arabic falconry during wars in the region (between June 1228 – June 1229). He obtained a copy of Moamyn's manual on falconry and had it translated into Latin by Theodore of Antioch. Frederick II himself made corrections to the translation in 1241 resulting in \"De Scientia Venandi per Aves\". King Frederick II is most recognized for his falconry treatise, \"De arte venandi cum avibus\" (\"The Art of Hunting with Birds\"). Written himself toward the end of his life, it is widely accepted as the first comprehensive book of falconry, but also notable in its contributions to ornithology and zoology. \"De arte venandi cum avibus\" incorporated a diversity of scholarly traditions from east to west, and is one of the earliest challenges to Aristotle's explanations of nature.\n\nHistorically, falconry was a popular sport and status symbol among the nobles of medieval Europe, the Middle East, and Mongolian Empire. Many historical illustrations left in Rashid al Din's \"Compendium chronicles\" book described falconry of the middle centuries with Mongol images. Falconry was largely restricted to the noble classes due to the prerequisite commitment of time, money, and space. In art and in other aspects of culture such as literature, falconry remained a status symbol long after it was no longer popularly practiced. The historical significance of falconry within lower social classes may be underrepresented in the archaeological record, due to a lack of surviving evidence, especially from nonliterate nomadic and non-agrarian societies. Within nomadic societies like the Bedouin, falconry was not practiced for recreation by noblemen. Instead, falcons were trapped and hunted on small game during the winter months in order to supplement a very limited diet.\n\nIn the UK and parts of Europe, falconry probably reached its zenith in the 17th century, but soon faded, particularly in the late 18th and 19th centuries, as firearms became the tool of choice for hunting (this likely took place throughout Europe and Asia in differing degrees). Falconry in the UK had a resurgence in the late 19th and early 20th centuries during which time a number of falconry books were published. This revival led to the introduction of falconry in North America in the early 20th century. Col R. Luff Meredith is recognized as the father of North American falconry.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, modern veterinary practices and the advent of radio telemetry (transmitters attached to free-flying birds) increased the average lifespan of falconry birds and allowed falconers to pursue quarry and styles of flight that had previously resulted in the loss of their hawk or falcon.\n\n\nThe often-quoted \"Book of St Albans\" or \"Boke of St Albans\", first printed in 1486, often attributed to Dame Julia Berners, provides this hierarchy of hawks and the social ranks for which each bird was supposedly appropriate.\n\nThis list, however, was mistaken in several respects.\n\nIt can be seen that the relevance of the \"Boke\" to practical falconry past or present is extremely tenuous, and veteran British falconer Phillip Glasier dismissed it as \"merely a formalised and rather fanciful listing of birds\".\n\nA book about falconry published in 1973 says:\n\nThere are several raptors used in falconry. They are typically classed as follows:\nOwls are also used, although they are far less common.\n\nIn determining whether a species can or should be used for falconry, the species' behavior in a captive environment, its responsiveness to training, and its typical prey and hunting habits are considered.To some degree, a species' reputation will determine whether it's used, although this factor is somewhat harder to objectively gauge.\n\n\"Parabuteo unicinctus\" is one of two representatives of this genus worldwide. The other is the white-rumped hawk (\"Parabuteo leucorrhous\"). Arguably the best rabbit or hare raptor available anywhere, the Harris' hawk is also adept at catching birds. Often captive-bred, the Harris' hawk is remarkably popular because of its temperament and ability. The Harris hawk is found in the wild living in groups or packs and hunts cooperatively, with a social hierarchy similar to wolves. This highly social behavior is not observed in any other bird of prey species and is very adaptable to falconry. This genus is native to the Americas from southern Texas and Arizona to South America. The Harris hawk is often used in the modern technique of car hawking (a.k.a. drive-by falconry), where the raptor is launched from the window of a moving car at suitable prey.\n\nThe genus \"Buteo\", known as \"hawks\" in North America and not to be confused with vultures, has worldwide distribution but is particularly well represented in North America. The red-tailed hawk, ferruginous hawk, and rarely, the red-shouldered hawk are all examples of species from this genus that are used in falconry today. The red-tailed hawk is hardy and versatile, taking rabbits, hares, and squirrels; given the right conditions it can catch geese, ducks, pheasants, and even wild turkeys. The red-tailed hawk is also considered a good bird for beginners. The Eurasian or common buzzard is also used, although this species requires more perseverance if rabbits are to be hunted.\n\nThe genus \"Accipiter\" is also found worldwide. The hawk expert Mike McDermott once said, \"The attack of the accipiters is extremely swift, rapid and violent in every way.\" They are well known in falconry use both in Europe and North America. The northern goshawk has been trained for falconry for hundreds of years, taking a variety of birds and mammals. Other popular \"Accipiter\"s used in falconry include: the Cooper's hawk and sharp-shinned hawk in North America and the European sparrowhawk in Europe and Eurasia. New Zealand is likely to be one of the few countries to use a harrier species for falconry, there falconers successfully hunt with the Australasian harrier (\"Circus approximans\").\nThe genus \"Falco\" is found worldwide and has occupied a central niche in ancient and modern falconry. Most falcon species used in falconry are specialized predators, most adapted to capturing bird prey such as the peregrine falcon and merlin. A notable exception is the use of desert falcons such the saker falcon in ancient and modern Middle Eastern and Asian falconry, where hares were and are commonly taken. In North America, the prairie falcon and the gyrfalcon can capture small mammal prey (as well as gamebirds and waterfowl) in falconry, but this is rarely practiced. Young falconers often begin practicing the art with American kestrels, the smallest of the falcons in North America; there is debate on whether this practice should continue. Small species, such as kestrels, merlins and hobbys can also be used for recreational bug hawking – that is, hunting large flying insects such as dragonflies and moths.\n\nOwls are not closely related to hawks or falcons. There is little written in classic falconry that discusses the use of owls in falconry. However, there are at least two species that have successfully been used, the Eurasian eagle owl and the great horned owl.\nSuccessful training of owls is much different from the training of hawks and falcons, as they are hearing- rather than sight-oriented (owls can only see black and white, and are long-sighted). This often leads falconers to believe that they are less intelligent, as they are distracted easily by new or unnatural noises and they do not respond as readily to food cues. However, if trained successfully, owls show intelligence on the same level as that of hawks and falcons.\n\nThe \"Aquila\" (all have \"booted\" or feathered tarsus) genus has a nearly worldwide distribution. The more powerful types are used in falconry; for example golden eagles have reportedly been used to hunt wolves in Kazakhstan, and are now most widely used by the Altaic Kazakh eagle hunters in the western Mongolian province of Bayan-Ölgii to hunt foxes, and other large prey, as they are in neighbouring Kyrgyzstan. Most are primarily ground-oriented but will occasionally take birds. Eagles are not used as widely in falconry as other birds of prey, due to the lack of versatility in the larger species (they primarily hunt over large open ground), the greater potential danger to other people if hunted in a widely populated area, and the difficulty of training and managing an eagle. There are a little over 300 active falconers using eagles in Central Asia, with 250 in western Mongolia, 50 in Kazakhstan, and smaller numbers in Kyrgyzstan and western China.\n\nMost species of genus \"Haliaëtus\" catch and eat fish, some almost exclusively. However, in countries where they are not protected, some have been effectively used in hunting for ground quarry.\n\nIn North America the capable red-tailed hawk is commonly flown by the beginner falconer during his/her apprenticeship. Opinions differ on the usefulness of the kestrel for beginners due to its inherent fragility. In the UK, beginner falconers are often permitted to acquire a larger variety of birds, but the Harris hawk and red-tailed hawk remain the most commonly used for beginners and experienced falconers alike. The red-tailed hawk is held in high regard in the UK due to the ease of breeding them in captivity, their inherent hardiness, and their capability hunting the rabbits and hares commonly found throughout the countryside in the UK. Many falconers in the UK and North America switch to accipiters or large falcons following their introduction with easier birds. In the USA accipiters, several types of buteos, and large falcons are only allowed to be owned by falconers who hold a general license. There are three kinds of falconry licenses in the United States, typically Apprentice class, General class, and Master class.\n\n\"See Hack (falconry) and Falconry training and technique.\"\n\nFalconry is currently practiced in many countries around the world. The falconer's traditional choice of bird is the northern goshawk and peregrine falcon. In contemporary falconry in both North America and the UK they remain popular, although the Harris hawk and red-tailed hawk are likely more widely used. The northern goshawk and the golden eagle are more commonly used in Eastern Europe than elsewhere. In the Middle East, the saker falcon is the most traditional species flown against the houbara bustard, sandgrouse, stone-curlew, other birds and hares. Peregrines and other captively bred imported falcons are also commonplace. Falconry remains an important part of the Arab heritage and culture. The UAE reportedly spends over 27 million dollars annually towards the protection and conservation of wild falcons, and has set up several state-of-the-art falcon hospitals in Abu Dhabi and Dubai. The Abu Dhabi Falcon Hospital is the largest falcon hospital in the whole world. There are two breeding farms in the Emirates, as well as those in Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Every year, falcon beauty contests and demonstrations take place at the ADIHEX exhibition in Abu Dhabi.\n\nSparrowhawks were formerly used to take a range of small birds, but are really too delicate for serious falconry and have fallen out of favour now that American species are available.\n\nIn North America and the UK, falcons usually fly only after birds. Large falcons are typically trained to fly in the \"waiting-on\" style, where the falcon climbs and circles above the falconer and/or dog and the quarry is flushed when the falcon is in the desired commanding position. Classical game hawking in the UK saw a brace of peregrine falcons flown against the red grouse, or merlins in \"ringing\" flights after skylarks. Rooks and crows are classic game for the larger falcons, and the magpie, making up in cunning what it lacks in flying ability, is another common target. Short-wings can be flown in both open and wooded country against a variety of bird and small mammal prey. Most hunting with large falcons requires large open tracts where the falcon is afforded opportunity to strike or seize its quarry before it reaches cover. Most of Europe practices similar styles of falconry, but with differing degrees of regulation.\n\nMedieval falconers often rode horses but this is now rare with the exception of contemporary Kazakh and Mongolian falconry. In Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Mongolia, the golden eagle is traditionally flown (often from horseback), hunting game as large as foxes and wolves.\n\nIn Japan, the northern goshawk has been used for centuries. Japan continues to honor its strong historical links with falconry (takagari) while adopting some modern techniques and technologies.\n\nIn Australia, although falconry is not specifically illegal, it is illegal to keep any type of bird of prey in captivity without the appropriate permits. The only exemption is when the birds are kept for purposes of rehabilitation (for which a licence must still be held), and in such circumstances it may be possible for a competent falconer to teach a bird to hunt and kill wild quarry, as part of its regime of rehabilitation to good health and a fit state to be released into the wild.\n\nIn New Zealand, falconry was formally legalised for one species only, the swamp/Australasian harrier (\"Circus approximans\") in 2011. This was only possible with over 25 years of effort from both Wingspan National Bird of Prey Centre and The Raptor Association of New Zealand (RANZ). Falconry can only be practiced by people who have been issued a falconry permit by the Department of Conservation. There are currently only four practicing falconers in New Zealand.\n\nTangent aspects, such as bird abatement and raptor rehabilitation also employ falconry techniques to accomplish their goals.\n\nIn the UK, the British Falconers' Club (BFC) is the oldest and largest of the falconry clubs. The club was founded in 1927 by the surviving members of the Old Hawking Club, itself founded in 1864. Working closely with the Hawk Board, an advisory body representing the interests of UK bird of prey keepers, the BFC is in the forefront of raptor conservation, falconer education, and sustainable falconry. Established in 1927, the BFC now has a membership of over 1,200 falconers. It began as a small and elite club, however it is now a sizeable democratic organisation that has members from all walks of life flying hawks, falcons, and eagles at legal quarry throughout the British Isles.\n\nThe North American Falconers' Association (NAFA), founded in 1961, is the premier club for falconry in the US, Canada, and Mexico, and has members worldwide. See North American Falconers Association. NAFA is the primary club in the United States and has a membership from around the world. Most USA states have their own falconry clubs. Although these clubs are primarily social, they also serve to represent falconers within the state in regards to that state's wildlife regulations.\n\nThe IAF – International Association for Falconry and Conservation of Birds of Prey, founded in 1968, currently represents 130 falconry clubs and conservation organisations from 89 countries worldwide totaling over 75,000 members.\n\nThe successful and now widespread captive breeding of birds of prey began as a response to dwindling wild populations due to persistent toxins such as PCBs and DDT, systematic persecution as undesirable predators, habitat loss, and the resulting limited availability of popular species for falconry, particularly the peregrine falcon. The first known raptors to breed in captivity belonged to a German falconer named Renz Waller. In 1942–43, he produced two young peregrines in Düsseldorf in Germany.\nThe first successful captive breeding of peregrine falcons in North America occurred in the early 1970s by The Peregrine Fund, Professor and falconer Heinz Meng, and other private falconer/breeders such as David Jamieson and Les Boyd who bred the first peregrines by means of artificial insemination. In Great Britain, falconer Phillip Glasier of the Falconry Centre in Newent, Gloucestershire, was successful in obtaining young from more than 20 species of captive raptors. A cooperative effort began between various government agencies, non-government organizations, and falconers to supplement various wild raptor populations in peril. This effort was strongest in North America where significant private donations along with funding allocations through the Endangered Species Act of 1972 provided the means to continue the release of captive-bred peregrines, golden eagles, bald eagles, aplomado falcons and others. By the mid-1980s, falconers had become self-sufficient as regards sources of birds to train and fly, in addition to the immensely important conservation benefits conferred by captive breeding.\n\nBetween 1972 and 2001, nearly all peregrines used for falconry in the U.S. were captive-bred from the progeny of falcons taken before the U. S. Endangered Species Act was enacted and from those few infusions of wild genes available from Canada and special circumstances. Peregrine falcons were removed from the United States' endangered species list on August 25, 1999. Finally, after years of close work with the US Fish and Wildlife Service, a limited take of wild peregrines was allowed in 2001, the first wild peregrines taken specifically for falconry in over 30 years.\n\nSome controversy has existed over the origins of captive breeding stock used by The Peregrine Fund in the recovery of peregrine falcons throughout the contiguous United States. Several peregrine subspecies were included in the breeding stock, including birds of Eurasian origin. Due to the extirpation of the Eastern \"anatum\" (\"Falco peregrinus anatum\"), the near extirpation of the \"anatum\" in the Midwest, and the limited gene pool within North American breeding stock, the inclusion of non-native subspecies was justified to optimize the genetic diversity found within the species as a whole. Such strategies are common in endangered species re-introduction scenarios, where dramatic population declines result in a genetic bottleneck and the loss of genetic diversity.\n\nLaws regulating the capture and import/export of wild falcons throughout the Middle East and Asia vary, and the effective enforcement of existing national and international regulations are lacking in some regions. The proliferation of captive-bred falcons into the falcon markets of the Arabian Peninsula has likely moderated this demand for wild falcons.\n\nThe species within the genus \"Falco\" are closely related and some pairings produce viable offspring. The heavy northern gyrfalcon and Asiatic saker being especially closely related, and it is not known whether the Altai falcon is a subspecies of the saker or descendants of naturally occurring hybrids. Peregrine and prairie falcons have been observed breeding in the wild and have produced offspring. These pairings are thought to be rare, however extra-pair copulations between closely related species may occur more frequently and/or account for most natural occurring hybridization. Some male first generation hybrids may have viable sperm, whereas very few first generation female hybrids lay fertile eggs. Thus, naturally occurring hybridization is thought to be somewhat insignificant to gene flow in raptor species.\n\nThe first hybrid falcons produced in captivity occurred in western Ireland when veteran falconer Ronald Stevens and John Morris put a male saker and a female peregrine into the same moulting mews for the spring and early summer, and the two mated and produced offspring.\n\nCaptively bred hybrid falcons have been available since the late 1970s, and enjoyed a meteoric rise in popularity in North America and the UK in the 1990s. Hybrids were initially \"created\" to combine the horizontal speed and size of the gyrfalcon with the good disposition and aerial ability of the peregrine. Hybrid falcons first gained large popularity throughout the Arabian Peninsula, feeding a demand for particularly large and aggressive female falcons capable and willing to take on the very large houbara bustard, the classic falconry quarry in the deserts of the Middle East. These falcons were also very popular with Arab falconers as they tended to withstand a respiratory disease (\"aspergillosis\" from the mold strain aspergillus) in stressful desert conditions better than other pure species from the Northern Hemisphere.\n\nSome believe that no species of raptor have been in captivity long enough to have undergone successful selective breeding for desired traits. Captive breeding of raptors over several generations tends to result, either deliberately, or inevitably as a result of captivity, in selection for certain traits, including:\n\nFalconers' birds are inevitably lost on occasion, though most are found again. The main reason birds can be found again is because, during free flights, birds usually wear radio transmitters or bells. The transmitters are in the middle of the tail, on the back, or attached to the bird's legs.\n\nRecords of species becoming established in Britain after escaping or being released include:\n\nIn sharp contrast to the US, falconry in Great Britain is permitted without a special license. However, a restriction exists of using only captive-bred birds. In the lengthy, record-breaking debates in Westminster during the passage of the 1981 Wildlife & Countryside Bill, efforts were made by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and other lobby groups to have falconry outlawed, but these were successfully resisted. After a centuries-old but informal existence in Britain, the sport of falconry was finally given formal legal status in Great Britain by the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, which allowed it to continue provided all captive raptors native to the UK were officially ringed and government-registered. DNA-testing was also available to verify birds' origins. Since 1982 the British government's licensing requirements have been overseen by the Chief Wildlife Act Inspector for Great Britain, who is assisted by a panel of unpaid assistant inspectors.\n\nBritish falconers are entirely reliant upon captive-bred birds for their sport. The taking of raptors from the wild for falconry, although permitted by law under government licence, has not been allowed in recent decades.\n\nAnyone is permitted to possess legally registered or captive-bred raptors, although falconers are anxious to point out that this is not synonymous with falconry, which specifically entails the hunting of live quarry with a trained bird. A raptor kept merely as a pet or possession, although the law may allow it, is not considered to be a falconer's bird. Birds may be used for breeding or kept after their hunting days are over, but falconers believe it is preferable that young, fit birds are flown at quarry.\n\nIn the United States, falconry is legal in all states except Hawaii. It is also illegal in the District of Columbia. A falconer must have a state permit to practice the sport. (Requirements for a federal permit were changed in 2008 and the program discontinued effective January 1, 2014.) Acquiring a falconry license in the United States requires an aspiring falconer to pass a written test, have equipment and facilities inspected, and serve a minimum of two years as an apprentice under a licensed falconer, during which time, the falconer may only possess one raptor. There are three classes of the falconry license, which is a permit issued jointly by the falconer's state of residence and the federal government. The aforementioned Apprentice license matriculates to a General Class license, which allows the falconer to up to three raptors at one time (some jurisdictions may further limit this). After a minimum of five years at General level, falconers may apply for a Master Class license, which allows them to keep up to five wild raptors for falconry and an unlimited number of captively-produced raptors (all must be used for falconry). Certain highly experienced master falconers may also apply to possess golden eagles for falconry.\n\nWithin the United States, a state's regulations are limited by federal law and treaties protecting raptors. Most states afford falconers an extended hunting season relative to seasons for archery and firearms, however species to be hunted, bag limits, and possession limits remain the same for both. No extended seasons for falconry exist for the hunting of migratory birds such as waterfowl and doves.\n\nFederal regulation of falconry in North America is enforced under the statutes of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 (MBTA), originally designed to address the rampant commercial market hunting of migratory waterbirds during the early 20th century. Birds of prey suffered extreme persecution from the early 20th century through the 1960s, where thousands of birds were shot at conspicuous migration sites and many state wildlife agencies issued bounties for carcasses. Due to widespread persecution and further impacts to raptor populations from DDT and other toxins, the act was amended in 1972 to include birds of prey (eagles are also protected under the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act of 1959). Under the MBTA, it is illegal for people to \"take\" migratory birds, their eggs, feathers or nests. Take is defined in the MBTA to \"include by any means or in any manner, any attempt at hunting, pursuing, wounding, killing, possessing or transporting any migratory bird, nest, egg, or part thereof\". Falconers are allowed to trap, and otherwise possess certain birds of prey and their feathers with special permits issued by the Migratory Bird Office of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and by state wildlife agencies (issuers of trapping permits).\n\nThe Convention on International Trade on Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna (CITES) restricts the import and export of most native birds species and are listed in the CITES Appendix I, II, & III.\n\nThe Wild Bird Conservation Act (WBCA), legislation put into effect circa 1993, regulates importation of any CITES-listed birds into the United States.\n\nSome controversy exists over the issue of falconer's ownership of captively bred birds of prey. Falconry permits are issued by states in a manner that entrusts falconers to \"take\" (trap) and possess permitted birds and use them only for permitted activities, but does not transfer legal ownership. No legal distinction is made between native wild trapped vs. captive bred birds of the same species. This legal position is designed to disincentivize the commercial exploitation of native wildlife.\n\nFalcons can live into their mid-teens, with larger hawks living longer and eagles likely to see out middle-aged owners. Through the captive breeding of rescued birds, the last 30 years have seen a great rebirth of the sport, with a host of innovations; falconry's popularity, through lure flying displays at country houses and game fairs, has probably never been higher in the past 300 years. Ornithologist Tim Gallagher, editor of the Cornell Lab of Ornithology's \"Living Bird\" magazine, documented his experiences with modern falconry in a 2008 book, \"Falcon Fever\".\n\nMaking use of the natural relationship between raptors and their prey, today, falconry is used to control pest birds and animals in urban areas, landfills, commercial buildings, and airports. Falconer Dan Frankian of Hawkeye Bird and Animal Control frequently speaks on the subject to news crews while his hawks and falcons are flying over Toronto City Hall, in an effort to control the city's gull and pigeon population.\n\nFalconry centres or birds of prey centres house these raptors.\nThey are responsible for many aspects of bird of prey conservation (through keeping the birds for education and breeding). Many conduct regular flying demonstrations and educational talks, and are popular with visitors worldwide.\n\nSuch centres may also provide falconry courses, hawk walks, displays and other experiences with these raptors - see links at bottom of page for details.\n\nIn 2010, UNESCO inscribed falconry as a living human heritage element of eleven countries, including United Arab Emirates,\nBelgium, Czech Republic, France, Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Morocco, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Spain, and Syrian Arab Republic. Austria and Hungary were added in 2012 and Germany, Italy, Kazakhstan, Pakistan, and Portugal were added in 2016. With a total of eighteen countries, falconry is the largest multi-national nomination on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.\n\n\nThese English language words and idioms are derived from falconry:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "492363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492363", "title": "Farnese Hercules", "text": "Farnese Hercules\n\nThe Farnese Hercules () is an ancient statue of Hercules, probably an enlarged copy made in the early third century AD and signed by Glykon, who is otherwise unknown; the name is Greek but he may have worked in Rome. Like much Ancient Roman sculpture it is a copy or version of a much older Greek original that was well-known, in this case an original by Lysippos (or one of his circle) that would have been made in the fourth century BC. The enlarged copy was made for the Baths of Caracalla in Rome (dedicated in 216 AD), where the statue was recovered in 1546, and is now in the Museo Archeologico Nazionale in Naples. The heroically-scaled \"Hercules\" is one of the most famous sculptures of antiquity, and has fixed the image of the mythic hero in the European imagination.\n\nThe \"Farnese Hercules\" is a massive marble statue, following a lost original cast in bronze through a method called lost wax casting. It depicts a muscular, yet weary, Hercules leaning on his club, which has the skin of the Nemean lion draped over it. In myths about Heracles, killing the lion was his first task. He has just performed one of the last of The Twelve Labours, which is suggested by the apples of the Hesperides he holds behind his back.\n\nThe type was well known in antiquity, and among many other versions a Hellenistic or Roman bronze reduction, found at Foligno is in the Musée du Louvre. A small Roman marble copy can be seen in the Museum of the Ancient Agora, Athens (see illustration).\n\nThe rediscovered statue quickly made its way into the collection of Cardinal Alessandro Farnese, grandson of Pope Paul III. Alessandro Farnese was well placed to form one of the greatest collections of classical sculpture that has been assembled since Antiquity. It stood for generations in its own room at Palazzo Farnese, Rome, where the statue was surrounded by frescoed depictions of the hero's mythical feats that were created by Annibale Carracci and his studio, executed in the 1590s. The Farnese statue was moved to Naples in 1787 with most of the Farnese Collection and is now displayed in the Museo Archeologico Nazionale there.\n\nThe sculpture has been reassembled and restored by degrees. According to a letter of Guglielmo della Porta, the head had been recovered separately, from a well in Trastevere, and was bought for Farnese through the agency of della Porta, whose legs made to complete the figure were so well-regarded that when the original legs were recovered from ongoing excavations in the Baths of Caracalla, della Porta's were retained, on Michelangelo's advice, in part to demonstrate that modern sculptors could bear direct comparison with the ancients. The original legs, from the Borghese collection, were not reunited with the sculpture until 1787. Goethe, in his Italian Journey, recounts his differing impressions upon seeing the Hercules with each set of legs, however, marvelling at the clear superiority of the original ones.\n\nHercules is caught in a rare moment of repose. Leaning on his knobby club which is draped with the pelt of the Nemean Lion, he holds the apples of the Hesperides, but conceals them behind his back cradled in his right hand. Many engravings and woodcuts spread the fame of the Farnese's Hercules. By 1562 the find was already included in the set of engravings for \"Speculum Romanae Magnificentiae\" (\"Mirror of Rome's Magnificence\") and connoisseurs, artists, and tourists gaped at the original, which stood in the courtyard of the Palazzo Farnese, protected under the arcade. In 1590–91, during his trip to Rome, Hendrik Goltzius sketched the statue in the palazzo courtyard. Later (in 1591) Goltzius recorded the less-common rear view, in a bravura engraving (\"illustration, right\"), which emphasizes the already exaggerated muscular form with swelling and tapering lines that flow over the contours. The young Rubens made quick sketches of the planes and massing of the statue of Hercules. Before photography, prints were the only way to put the image into many hands.\nThe sculpture was admired from the start, reservations about its exaggerated musculature only surfacing in the later eighteenth century. Napoleon remarked to Antonio Canova that its omission from the museum he accumulated in Paris was the most important gap in the collection. More than once, the sculpture was crated and made ready for shipment to Paris before the Napoleonic regime fled Naples.\n\nThe prominently sited statue was well liked by the Ancient Romans, and copies have been found in Roman palaces and gymnasiums: another, coarser copy, stood in the courtyard of Palazzo Farnese; one with the feigned (but probably ancient) inscription \"Lykippos\" has stood in the court of Palazzo Pitti, Florence, since the sixteenth century.\nAncient copies of the statue include:\n\nAfter rediscovery of the Farnese Hercules, copies appeared in sixteenth- and eighteenth-century gardens throughout Europe. During construction of the Alameda de Hercules (1574) in Seville, the oldest public garden preserved in Europe, at its entrance were installed two columns from a Roman temple, elements of a building still preserved in the \"Mármoles\", an unquestionable sign of admiration for the Roman archaeological sites. On them were placed two sculptures by Diego de Pesquera, in 1574, recognizing Hercules as founder of the city, and Julius Caesar, restorer of Híspalis. The first was a copy of the Farnese Hercules, nearly the monumental size of the original. At Wilhelmshöhe, near Kassel, a colossal version 8.5 m high produced by Johann Jacob Anthoni, 1713–1717, has become a symbol for the city.\n\nAndré Le Nôtre placed a full-size gilded version against the skyline at the far end of the main vista at Vaux-le-Vicomte. That at Versailles is a copy by Jean Cornu, 1684–1686. In Scotland a rare copy in lead, of the first half of the eighteenth century, is sited incongruously in the central Highlands, overlooking the recently restored Hercules Garden in the grounds of Blair Castle. Wealthy collectors were able to afford one of the numerous bronze replicas created in sizes for table-top display.\n\nIt is shown in the 1954 film \"Journey to Italy\" along with the Farnese Bull.\n\nA replica, titled \"Herakles in Ithaca\", was erected in 1989 on the campus of Cornell University in Ithaca, NY. The statue was a gift from its sculptor, Jason Seley, a professor of fine arts. Seley made the sculpture in 1981 out of chrome automobile bumpers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1895156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1895156", "title": "Flatulist", "text": "Flatulist\n\nA flatulist, fartist, or professional farter is an entertainer (sometimes considered a comedian) whose routine consists solely or primarily of passing gas in a creative, musical, or amusing manner.\n\nThere are a number of scattered references to ancient and medieval flatulists, who could produce various rhythms and pitches with their intestinal wind. Saint Augustine in \"City of God (De Civitate Dei)\" (14.24) mentions some performers who did have \"such command of their bowels, that they can break wind continuously at will, so as to produce the effect of singing.\" Juan Luis Vives, in his 1522 commentary to Augustine's work, testifies to having himself witnessed such a feat, a remark referenced by Michel de Montaigne in an essay.\n\nThe professional farters of medieval Ireland were called braigetoír. They are listed together with other performers and musicians in the 12th century \"Tech Midchúarda\", a diagram of the banqueting hall of Tara. As entertainers, these braigetoir ranked at the lower end of a scale headed by bards, fili, and harpers.\n\nOne late medieval flatulist is mentioned in an entry in the 13th-century English \"Liber Feodorum\" or \"Book of Fees\". It lists one Roland the Farter, who held Hemingstone manor in the county of Suffolk, for which he was obliged to perform \"Unum saltum et siffletum et unum bumbulum\" (one jump, one whistle, and one fart) annually at the court of King Henry II every Christmas. The \"Activa Vita\" character in the 14th century allegorical poem Piers Plowman appears to number farting among the abilities desirable in a good entertainer in general, alongside storytelling, fiddling, or playing the harp. This poem translates to \"As for me, I can neither drum nor trumpet, nor tell jokes, nor fart amusingly at parties, nor play the harp.\"\n\nIn Japan, during the Edo period, flatulists were known as \"heppiri otoko\" (放屁男), lit. \"farting men.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15183658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15183658", "title": "Gebelein predynastic mummies", "text": "Gebelein predynastic mummies\n\nThe Gebelein predynastic mummies are six naturally mummified bodies, dating to approximately 3400 BC from the Late Predynastic period of Ancient Egypt. They were the first complete predynastic bodies to be discovered. The well-preserved bodies were excavated at the end of the nineteenth century by Wallis Budge, the British Museum Keeper for Egyptology, from shallow sand graves near Gebelein (today, Naga el-Gherira) in the Egyptian desert.\n\nBudge excavated all the bodies from the same grave site. Two were identified as male and one as female, with the others being of undetermined gender. The bodies were given to the British Museum in 1900. Some grave-goods were documented at the time of excavation as \"pots and flints\", however they were not passed on to the British Museum and their whereabouts remain unknown. Three of the bodies were found with coverings of different types (reed matting, palm fibre and an animal skin), which still remain with the bodies. The bodies were found in foetal positions lying on their left sides.\n\nSince 1901, the first body excavated has remained on display in the British Museum. This body was originally nicknamed Ginger due to his red hair; this nickname is no longer officially used as part of recent ethical policies for human remains.\n\nIn 1895 and 1896 the ruins at Abydos, Tukh, Hierakonpolis and Gebelein were excavated. In 1892 Jacques de Morgan, Director of Antiquities in Egypt, proved that pottery found at Abydos and Nakadah pre-dated the dynastic period, stimulating interest by many European Archaeologists. As each excavation was completed, local Egyptian residents would continue to search the sites for remains. In 1895 E. A. Wallis Budge, on behalf of the British Museum, procured inscribed coffins and funerary furniture from the 12th Dynasty tombs at Al-Barshah by working with the Egyptian Service of Antiquities. Budge started purchasing predynastic finds from the locals including bowls, spear and arrow heads, carved flint and bone figures and partial human remains (described as chiefly bones without skin or flesh remaining).\n\nIn 1896, Budge was approached by a resident of Gebelein who claimed to have found more mummies. Budge was taken to the bodies, and he immediately recognized them as from the predynastic period and the first complete pre-dynastic bodies identified. He began excavations and a total of six mummified bodies were removed from shallow sand graves at Baḥr Bila Mâ (\"Waterless River\") located at the eastern slopes of the north-most hill at Gebelein.\n\nThe only grave goods were a pot found with the female adult body and partial remains of wicker, fur and linen with the other bodies. In the predynastic period bodies were usually buried naked and sometimes loosely wrapped. In such a burial, when the body is covered in warm sand, the environmental conditions mean that most of the water in the body is quickly evaporated or drained away, meaning that the corpse is naturally dried and preserved. This method was widely used in the pre-dynastic Egyptian period, before artificial mummification was developed. The natural mummification that occurred with these dry sand burials may have led to the original Egyptian belief in an after-death survival and started the tradition of leaving food and implements for an afterlife.\n\nAll bodies were in similar flexed positions lying on their left sides with knees raised up towards their chin. In comparison, most bodies excavated from Egypt dating to the predynastic period are in a similar position, however at Merimda Beni Salama and El-Amra bodies were found on their right sides. From the time these bodies were buried up until the Middle Kingdom period, the dead were laid on their sides. After this period they were buried on their backs (dorsal position), and from the Fifth Dynasty the bodies were always fully extended.\n\nArchaeological interest in Gebelien started in the early 18th century and was included in Benoît de Maillet's \"Description de l'Egypte\". The site includes the remains from a temple to the deity Hathor with a number of cartouches on mud bricks and a royal stela from the 2nd Dynasty and 3rd Dynasty. Later period finds include 400 Demotic and Greek ostraca from a 2nd–1st century BC mercenary garrison. As well as official excavations, many artefacts from the site were traded on the antiquities market and can be found in the museums of Turin, Cairo, Berlin, Lyons and the British Museum.\n\nThe bodies were buried in separate shallow graves, placed in the fetal position (knees raised towards their heads), which was the most common form for Egyptian burials of the time.\n\nIn 1967 a series of X-rays and photographs of all mummified bodies in the British Museum's Egyptian Antiquities collection provided a detailed analysis for the mummies from the Gebelein excavations. The findings are summarized below:\n\nThe first body excavated had red hair; this led to the nickname of \"Ginger\" by curators and later by the public. After the Human Tissue Act 2004, the British Museum has developed policies for ethical treatment of human remains and no longer uses this nickname.\n\nIn November 2012 it was revealed that EA 32751 (Gebelein Man) had probably been murdered. A CAT scan of the mummified body taken at the Cromwell Hospital in London showed that Gebelein Man was aged about 18 to 20 at the time of his death and was well-muscled. Under his left shoulder blade, the scan revealed a puncture to the body; the murder weapon was used with such force that it slightly damaged the shoulder blade, but shattered the rib beneath it and penetrated the lung. It was believed that the injury was caused by a copper blade or flint knife at least 12 cm in length and 2 cm wide. Daniel Antoine, the British Museum's expert on human remains, believes that Gebelein Man had been taken by surprise by the attack as there were no defense wounds.\n\nThe mummies were acquired by the British Museum in 1900. One male adult body, museum number EA 32751 (then nicknamed \"Ginger\"), went on display in 1901, and was the earliest mummified body seen by the public. Apart from maintenance, it has been on continuous display in the same gallery since 1901. In 1987 the body was temporarily taken off display for restoration and a female mummified body replaced it. She was nicknamed \"Gingerella\" even though the body has long brown hair.\n\nThe male body, EA 32751, is displayed in a reconstructed sand grave in the British Museum in room 64 and case 15. Though Budge wrote of \"pots and flints\" with the body, these artefacts were not acquired by the museum. A number of Egyptian grave goods taken from similar graves of the period are instead used in the display. The grave goods include black-topped clay pots that were typical of the predynastic period through to Naqada II, and plain and buff coloured pots and bowls typical of slightly later periods. There are also slate palettes, hard stone vessels and flint knives which would be associated with more elaborate burials of the historical period.\n\nOf the other five bodies, only the female adult, given museum number EA 32752, has been exhibited. In 1997-8 the body was part of a tour to Rome as part of the Palazzo Ruspoli, \"Ancient Faces\" exhibition. Again in 2001 the body went to Birmingham as part of the Gas Hall \"Egypt Revealed\" exhibition. In 2001, before going out on loan, the body had some restoration using Japanese kozo paper to secure a loose finger, reattach a rib and reattach some locks of hair. Strips of polyethylene were used to reduce movement of the right arm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "98514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98514", "title": "Green anarchism", "text": "Green anarchism\n\nGreen anarchism (or eco-anarchism) is a school of thought within anarchism which puts a particular emphasis on environmental issues. A green anarchist theory is normally one that extends anarchist ideology beyond a critique of human interactions, and includes a critique of the interactions between humans and non-humans as well. This often culminates in an anarchist revolutionary praxis that is not merely dedicated to human liberation, but also to some form of nonhuman liberation, and that aims to bring about an environmentally sustainable anarchist society.\n\nImportant early influences were Henry David Thoreau, Leo Tolstoy and Élisée Reclus. In the late 19th century there emerged anarcho-naturism as the fusion of anarchism and naturist philosophies within individualist anarchist circles in France, Spain, Cuba, and Portugal. Important contemporary currents (some of which may be mutually exclusive) include anarcho-primitivism, which offers a critique of technology and argues that anarchism is best suited to uncivilised ways of life, Green syndicalism, a Green anarcho-socialist political stance made up of anarcho-syndicalist views, and veganarchism: which argues that human liberation and animal liberation are inseparable; and social ecology, which argues that the hierarchical domination of nature by human stems from the hierarchical domination of human by human.\n\nAnarchism started to have an ecological view mainly in the writings of American anarchist and transcendentalist Henry David Thoreau. In his book \"Walden\" he advocates simple living and self-sufficiency among natural surroundings in resistance to the advancement of industrial civilization. The work is part personal declaration of independence, social experiment, voyage of spiritual discovery, satire, and manual for self-reliance. First published in 1854, it details Thoreau's experiences over the course of two years, two months, and two days in a cabin he built near Walden Pond, amidst woodland owned by his friend and mentor Ralph Waldo Emerson, near Concord, Massachusetts. The book compresses the time into a single calendar year and uses passages of four seasons to symbolize human development. By immersing himself in nature, Thoreau hoped to gain a more objective understanding of society through personal introspection. Simple living and self-sufficiency were Thoreau's other goals, and the whole project was inspired by transcendentalist philosophy, a central theme of the American Romantic Period. As Thoreau made clear in his book, his cabin was not in wilderness but at the edge of town, about from his family home.\n\nAs such \"Many have seen in Thoreau one of the precursors of ecologism and anarcho-primitivism represented today in John Zerzan. For George Woodcock this attitude can be also motivated by certain idea of resistance to progress and of rejection of the growing materialism which is the nature of American society in the mid 19th century.\" John Zerzan himself included the text \"Excursions\" (1863) by Thoreau in his edited compilation of writings called \"Against civilization: Readings and reflections\" from 1999.\n\nÉlisée Reclus (15 March 1830 – 4 July 1905), also known as Jacques Élisée Reclus, was a renowned French geographer, writer and anarchist. He produced his 19-volume masterwork \"La Nouvelle Géographie universelle, la terre et les hommes\" (\"Universal Geography\"), over a period of nearly 20 years (1875–1894). In 1892, he was awarded the prestigious Gold Medal of the Paris Geographical Society for this work, despite his having been banished from France because of his political activism. According to Kirkpatrick Sale: \n\nFor the authors of An Anarchist FAQ Reclus \"argued that a \"secret harmony exists between the earth and the people whom it nourishes, and when imprudent societies let themselves violate this harmony, they always end up regretting it.\" Similarly, no contemporary ecologist would disagree with his comments that the \"truly civilised man [and women] understands that his [or her] nature is bound up with the interest of all and with that of nature. He [or she] repairs the damage caused by his predecessors and works to improve his domain.\"\n\nReclus advocated nature conservation and opposed meat-eating and cruelty to animals. He was a vegetarian. As a result, his ideas are seen by some historians as anticipating the modern social ecology and animal rights movements. Shortly before his death, Reclus completed \"L'Homme et la terre\" (1905). In it, he added to his previous greater works by considering humanity's development relative to its geographical environment. Reclus was also an early proponent of naturism.\n\nIn the late 19th century Anarchist naturism appeared as the union of anarchist and naturist philosophies. Mainly it had importance within individualist anarchist circles in Spain, France, Portugal, and Cuba.\nAnarcho-naturism advocated vegetarianism, free love, nudism and an ecological world view within anarchist groups and outside them.\nAnarcho-naturism promoted an ecological worldview, small ecovillages, and most prominently nudism as a way to avoid the artificiality of the industrial mass society of modernity. Naturist individualist anarchists saw the individual in his biological, physical and psychological aspects and tried to eliminate social determinations. Important promoters of this were Henri Zisly and Emile Gravelle who collaborated in \"La Nouvelle Humanité\" followed by \"Le Naturien\", \"Le Sauvage\", \"L'Ordre Naturel\", & \"La Vie Naturelle\"\n\nRichard D. Sonn comments on the influence of naturist views in the wider French anarchist movement: \n\nHenri Zisly (born in Paris, November 2, 1872; died in 1945) was a French individualist anarchist and naturist. He participated alongside Henri Beylie and Émile Gravelle in many journals such as \"La Nouvelle Humanité\" and \"La Vie Naturelle\", which promoted anarchist-naturism. In 1902, he was one of the main initiators, alongside Georges Butaud and Sophie Zaïkowska, of the cooperative \"Colonie de Vaux\" established in Essômes-sur-Marne, in Aisne.\n\nZisly's political activity, \"primarily aimed at supporting a return to 'natural life' through writing and practical involvement, stimulated lively confrontations within and outside the anarchist environment. Zisly vividly criticized progress and civilization, which he regarded as 'absurd, ignoble, and filthy.' He openly opposed industrialization, arguing that machines were inherently authoritarian, defended nudism, advocated a non-dogmatic and non-religious adherence to the 'laws of nature,' recommended a lifestyle based on limited needs and self-sufficiency, and disagreed with vegetarianism, which he considered 'anti-scientific.'\"\n\nThe historian Kirwin R. Schaffer in his study of Cuban anarchism reports anarcho-naturism as \"A third strand within the island's anarchist movement\" alongside anarcho-communism and anarcho-syndicalism. Naturism was a global alternative health and lifestyle movement. Naturists focused on redefining one's life to live simply, eat cheap but nutritious vegetarian diets, and raise one's own food if possible. The countryside was posited as a romantic alternative to urban living, and some naturists even promoted what they saw as the healthful benefits of nudism. Globally, the naturist movement counted anarchists, liberals, and socialists as its followers. However, in Cuba a particular \"anarchist\" dimension evolved led by people like Adrián del Valle, who spearheaded the Cuban effort to shift naturism's focus away from only individual health to naturism having a \"social emancipatory\" function.\"\n\nSchaffer reports the influence that anarcho-naturism had outside naturists circles. So \"For instance, nothing inherently prevented an anarcho-syndicalist in the Havana restaurant workers' union from supporting the alternative health care programs of the anarcho-naturists and seeing those alternative practices as \"revolutionary.\"\". \"Anarcho-naturists promoted a rural ideal, simple living, and being in harmony with Nature as ways to save the laborers from the increasingly industrialized character of Cuba. Besides promoting an early twentieth-century \"back-to-the-land\" movement, they used these romantic images of Nature to illustrate how far removed a capitalist industrialized Cuba had departed from an anarchist view of natural harmony.\" The main propagandizer in Cuba of anarcho-naturism was the Catalonia born \"Adrián del Valle (aka Palmiro de Lidia) ... Over the following decades, Del Valle became a constant presence in not only the anarchist press that proliferated in Cuba but also mainstream literary publications ... From 1912 to 1913 he edited the freethinking journal \"El Audaz\". Then he began his largest publishing job by helping to found and edit the monthly alternative health magazine that followed the anarcho-naturist line \"Pro-Vida\".\n\nAnarcho-naturism was quite important at the end of the 1920s in the spanish anarchist movement In France, later important propagandists of anarcho-naturism include Henri Zisly and Émile Gravelle whose ideas were important in individualist anarchist circles in Spain, where Federico Urales (pseudonym of Joan Montseny) promoted the ideas of Gravelle and Zisly in \"La Revista Blanca\" (1898–1905): \n\nThe \"relation between Anarchism and Naturism gives way to the Naturist Federation, in July 1928, and to the lV Spanish Naturist Congress, in September 1929, both supported by the Libertarian Movement. However, in the short term, the Naturist and Libertarian movements grew apart in their conceptions of everyday life. The Naturist movement felt closer to the Libertarian individualism of some French theoreticians such as Henri Ner (real name of Han Ryner) than to the revolutionary goals proposed by some Anarchist organisations such as the FAI, (Federación Anarquista Ibérica)\". This ecological tendency in Spanish anarchism was strong enough as to call the attention of the CNT–FAI in Spain. Daniel Guérin in \"Anarchism: From Theory to Practice\" reports: \n\nIsaac Puente was an influential Spanish anarchist during the 1920s and 1930s and an important propagandist of anarcho-naturism, was a militant of both the CNT anarcho-syndicalist trade union and Iberian Anarchist Federation. He published the book \"El Comunismo Libertario y otras proclamas insurreccionales y naturistas\" (en:\"Libertarian Communism and other insurrectionary and naturist proclamations\") in 1933, which sold around 100,000 copies, and wrote the final document for the Extraordinary Confederal Congress of Zaragoza of 1936 which established the main political line for the CNT for that year. Puente was a doctor who approached his medical practice from a naturist point of view. He saw naturism as an integral solution for the working classes, alongside Neo-Malthusianism, and believed it concerned the living being while anarchism addressed the social being. He believed capitalist societies endangered the well-being of humans from both a socioeconomic and sanitary viewpoint, and promoted anarcho-communism alongside naturism as a solution.\n\nNaturism also met anarchism in the United Kingdom. \"In many of the alternative communities established in Britain in the early 1900s nudism, anarchism, vegetarianism and free love were accepted as part of a politically radical way of life. In the 1920s the inhabitants of the anarchist community at Whiteway, near Stroud in Gloucestershire, shocked the conservative residents of the area with their shameless nudity.\" In Italy, during the IX Congress of the Italian Anarchist Federation in Carrara in 1965, a group decided to split off from this organization and created the \"Gruppi di Iniziativa Anarchica\". In the seventies, it was mostly composed of \"veteran individualist anarchists with an orientation of pacifism, naturism, etc, ...\". American anarcho-syndicalist Sam Dolgoff shows some of the criticism that some people on the other anarchist currents at the time had for anarcho-naturist tendencies. \"Speaking of life at the Stelton Colony of New York in the 1930s, noted with disdain that it, \"like other colonies, was infested by vegetarians, naturists, nudists, and other cultists, who sidetracked true anarchist goals.\" One resident \"always went barefoot, ate raw food, mostly nuts and raisins, and refused to use a tractor, being opposed to machinery, and he didn't want to abuse horses, so he dug the earth himself.\" Such self-proclaimed anarchists were in reality \"ox-cart anarchists,\" Dolgoff said, \"who opposed organization and wanted to return to a simpler life.\" In an interview with Paul Avrich before his death, Dolgoff also grumbled, \"I am sick and tired of these half-assed artists and poets who object to organization and want only to play with their belly buttons.\"\".\n\nRussian Christian anarchist and anarcho-pacifist Leo Tolstoy is also recognized as an early influence in green anarchism. The novelist was struck by the description of Christian, Buddhist, and Hindu ascetic renunciation as being the path to holiness. After reading passages such as the following, which abound in Schopenhauer's ethical chapters, the Russian nobleman chose poverty and formal denial of the will: \n\nBut this very necessity of involuntary suffering (by poor people) for eternal salvation is also expressed by that utterance of the Savior (): \"It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.\" Therefore those who were greatly in earnest about their eternal salvation, chose voluntary poverty when fate had denied this to them and they had been born in wealth. Thus Buddha Sakyamuni was born a prince, but voluntarily took to the mendicant's staff; and Francis of Assisi, the founder of the mendicant orders who, as a youngster at a ball, where the daughters of all the notabilities were sitting together, was asked: \"Now Francis, will you not soon make your choice from these beauties?\" and who replied: \"I have made a far more beautiful choice!\" \"Whom?\" \"\"La povertà\" (poverty)\": whereupon he abandoned every thing shortly afterwards and wandered through the land as a mendicant. \n\nDespite his misgivings about anarchist violence, Tolstoy took risks to circulate the prohibited publications of anarchist thinkers in Russia, and corrected the proofs of Kropotkin's \"Words of a Rebel\", illegally published in St Petersburg in 1906. Tolstoy was enthused by the economic thinking of Henry George, incorporating it approvingly into later works such as \"Resurrection\", the book that played a major factor in his excommunication. Tolstoyans identify themselves as Christians, but do not generally belong to an institutional Church. They attempt to live an ascetic and simple life, preferring to be vegetarian, non-smoking, teetotal and chaste. Tolstoyans are considered Christian pacifists and advocate nonresistance in all circumstances. They do not support or participate in the government which they consider immoral, violent and corrupt. Tolstoy rejected the state (as it only exists on the basis of physical force) and all institutions that are derived from it - the police, law courts and army. Tolstoy influenced Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi who set up a cooperative colony called Tolstoy Farm near Johannesburg, South Africa, having been inspired by Tolstoy's ideas. The colony comprising was funded by the Gandhian Herman Kallenbach and placed at the disposal of the satyagrahis from 1910. He also inspired similar communal experiments in the United States where the residents were also influenced by the views of Henry George and Edward Bellamy, as well as in Russia, England and the Netherlands.\n\nSeveral anarchists from the mid-20th century like Herbert Read, Ethel Mannin, Leopold Kohr and Paul Goodman held proto-environmental views linked to their anarchism. Mannin's 1944 book \"Bread and Roses: A Utopian Survey and Blue-Print\" has been described by anarchist historian Robert Graham as setting forth \"an ecological vision in opposition to the prevailing and destructive industrial organization of society\".\n\nLeopold Kohr (5 October 1909 in Oberndorf bei Salzburg, Austria – 26 February 1994 in Gloucester, England) was an economist, philosopher and political scientist known both for his opposition to the \"cult of bigness\" in social organization and as one of those who initiated the\" small is beautiful\" movement. For almost twenty years he was Professor of Economics and Public Administration at the University of Puerto Rico. He described himself as a \"philosophical anarchist.\" In 1937, Kohr became a freelance correspondent during the Spanish Civil War, where he was impressed by the limited, self-contained governments of the separatist states of Catalonia and Aragon, as well as the small Spanish anarchist city states of Alcoy and Caspe. In his first published essay \"Disunion Now: A Plea for a Society based upon Small Autonomous Units\", published in Commonweal in 1941, Kohr wrote about a Europe at war: \"We have ridiculed the many little states, now we are terrorized by their few successors.\" He called for the breakup of Europe into hundreds of city states. Kohr developed his ideas in a series of books, including \"The Breakdown of Nations\" (1957), \"Development without Aid\" (1973) and \"The Overdeveloped Nations\" (1977). From Leopold Kohr's most popular work \"The Breakdown of Nations\": ... there seems to be only one cause behind all forms of social misery: bigness. Oversimplified as this may seem, we shall find the idea more easily acceptable if we consider that bigness, or oversize, is really much more than just a social problem. It appears to be the one and only problem permeating all creation. Whenever something is wrong, something is too big. ... And if the body of a people becomes diseased with the fever of aggression, brutality, collectivism, or massive idiocy, it is not because it has fallen victim to bad leadership or mental derangement. It is because human beings, so charming as individuals or in small aggregations, have been welded into overconcentrated social units.\n\nLater in his academic and writing career he protested the \"cult of bigness\" and economic growth and promoted the concept of human scale and small community life. He argued that massive external aid to poorer nations stifled local initiatives and participation. His vision called for a dissolution of centralized political and economic structures in favor of local control. Kohr was an important inspiration to the Green, bioregional, Fourth World, decentralist, and anarchist movements, Kohr contributed often to John Papworth's `Journal for the Fourth World', Resurgence. One of Kohr's students was economist E. F. Schumacher, another prominent influence on these movements, whose best selling book \"Small Is Beautiful\" took its title from one of Kohr's core principles. Similarly, his ideas inspired Kirkpatrick Sale's books \"Human Scale\" (1980) and \"Dwellers in the Land: The Bioregional Vision\" (1985). Sale arranged the first American publication of \"The Breakdown of Nations\" in 1978 and wrote the foreword.\n\nMurray Bookchin (January 14, 1921 – July 30, 2006) was an American libertarian socialist author, orator, and philosopher. In 1958, Murray Bookchin defined himself as an anarchist, seeing parallels between anarchism and ecology. His first book, \"Our Synthetic Environment,\" was published under the pseudonym Lewis Herber in 1962, a few months before Rachel Carson's \"Silent Spring\". The book described a broad range of environmental ills but received little attention because of its political radicalism. His groundbreaking essay \"Ecology and Revolutionary Thought\" introduced ecology as a concept in radical politics. In 1968 he founded another group that published the influential \"Anarchos\" magazine, which published that and other innovative essays on post-scarcity and on ecological technologies such as solar and wind energy, and on decentralization and miniaturization. Lecturing throughout the United States, he helped popularize the concept of ecology to the counterculture.\n\n\"Post-Scarcity Anarchism\" is a collection of essays written by Murray Bookchin and first published in 1971 by Ramparts Press. It outlines the possible form anarchism might take under conditions of post-scarcity. It is one of Bookchin's major works, and its radical thesis provoked controversy for being utopian and messianic in its faith in the liberatory potential of technology. Bookchin argues that post-industrial societies are also post-scarcity societies, and can thus imagine \"the fulfillment of the social and cultural potentialities latent in a technology of abundance\". The self-administration of society is now made possible by technological advancement and, when technology is used in an ecologically sensitive manner, the revolutionary potential of society will be much changed. In 1982, his book \"\" had a profound impact on the emerging ecology movement, both in the United States and abroad. He was a principal figure in the Burlington Greens in 1986-90, an ecology group that ran candidates for city council on a program to create neighborhood democracy. In \"From Urbanization to Cities\" (originally published in 1987 as \"The Rise of Urbanization and the Decline of Citizenship\"), Bookchin traced the democratic traditions that influenced his political philosophy and defined the implementation of the libertarian municipalism concept. A few years later \"The Politics of Social Ecology\", written by his partner of 20 years, Janet Biehl, briefly summarized these ideas.\n\nJacques Ellul (January 6, 1912 – May 19, 1994) was a French philosopher, law professor, sociologist, lay theologian, and Christian anarchist. He wrote several books about Christianity, the technological society, propaganda, and the interaction between religion and politics. Professor of History and the Sociology of Institutions on the Faculty of Law and Economic Sciences at the University of Bordeaux, he authored 58 books and more than a thousand articles over his lifetime in all, the dominant theme of which has been the threat to human freedom and religion created by modern technique. The Ellulian concept of technique is briefly defined within the \"Notes to Reader\" section of \"The Technological Society\" (1964). What many consider to be Ellul's most important work, \"The Technological Society\" (1964) was originally titled: \"La Technique: L'enjeu du siècle\" (literally, \"The Stake of the Century\"). In it, Ellul set forth seven characteristics of modern technology that make efficiency a necessity: rationality, artificiality, automatism of technical choice, self-augmentation, monism, universalism, and autonomy.\n\nFor Ellul the rationality of technique enforces logical and mechanical organization through division of labor, the setting of production standards, etc. And it creates an artificial system which \"eliminates or subordinates the natural world.\" Today, he argues, the technological society is generally held sacred (cf. Saint Steve Jobs). Since he defines technique as \"the totality of methods rationally arrived at, and having absolute efficiency (for a given stage of development) in every field of human activity\", it is clear that his sociological analysis focuses not on the society of machines as such, but on the society of \"efficient techniques\".\n\nNotable contemporary writers espousing green anarchism include Layla AbdelRahim, Derrick Jensen, Jaime Semprun, George Draffan, John Zerzan, Starhawk and Alan Carter.\n\nSocial ecology is closely related to the work and ideas of Murray Bookchin and influenced by anarchist Peter Kropotkin. Social ecologists assert that the present ecological crisis has its roots in human social problems, and that the domination of human-over-nature stems from the domination of human-over-human.\n\nBookchin later developed a political philosophy to complement social ecology which he called \"Communalism\" (spelled with a capital \"C\" to differentiate it from other forms of communalism). While originally conceived as a form of Social anarchism, he later developed Communalism into a separate ideology which incorporates what he saw as the most beneficial elements of Anarchism, Marxism, syndicalism, and radical ecology.\n\nPolitically, Communalists advocate a network of directly democratic citizens' assemblies in individual communities/cities organized in a confederal fashion. This method used to achieve this is called Libertarian Municipalism which involves the establishment of face-to-face democratic institutions which are to grow and expand confederally with the goal of eventually replacing the nation-state.\n\nJanet Biehl (born 1953) is a writer associated with social ecology, the body of ideas developed and publicized by Murray Bookchin. In 1986, she attended the Institute for Social Ecology and there, began a collaborative relationship with Bookchin, working intensively with him over the next two decades in the explication of social ecology from their shared home in Burlington, Vermont.\n\nFrom 1987 to 2000, she and Bookchin co-wrote and co-published the theoretical newsletter \"Green Perspectives\", later renamed \"Left Green Perspectives\". She is the editor and compiler of \"The Murray Bookchin Reader\" (1997); the author of \"The Politics of Social Ecology: Libertarian Municipalism\" (1998) and \"Rethinking Ecofeminist Politics\" (1991); and coauthor (with Peter Staudenmaier) of \"Ecofascism: Lessons from the German Experience\" (1995).\n\nThe magazine \"Green Anarchist\" was for a while the principal voice in the UK advocating green anarchism, an explicit fusion of libertarian socialist and ecological thinking. Founded after the 1984 Stop the City protests, the magazine was launched in the summer of that year by an editorial collective consisting of Alan Albon, Richard Hunt and Marcus Christo. Early issues featured a range of broadly anarchist and ecological ideas, bringing together groups and individuals as varied as Class War, veteran anarchist writer Colin Ward, anarcho-punk band Crass, as well as the Peace Convoy, anti-nuclear campaigners, animal rights activists and so on. However, the diversity that many saw as the publication's greatest strength quickly led to irreconcilable arguments between the essentially pacifist approach of Albon and Christo, and the advocacy of violent confrontation with the State favoured by Hunt. During the 1990s \"Green Anarchist\" came under the helm of an editorial collective that included Paul Rogers, Steve Booth and others, during which period the publication became increasingly aligned with primitivism, an anti-civilization philosophy advocated by writers such as John Zerzan and Fredy Perlman. Starting in 1995, Hampshire Police began a series of at least 56 raids, code named 'Operation Washington', that eventually resulted in the August to November 1997 Portsmouth trial of Green Anarchist editors Booth, Saxon Wood, Noel Molland and Paul Rogers, as well as Animal Liberation Front (ALF) Press Officer Robin Webb and Animal Liberation Front Supporters Group (ALFSG) newsletter editor Simon Russell. The defendants organised the GANDALF Defence campaign. Three of the editors of Green Anarchist, Noel Molland, Saxon Wood and Booth were jailed for 'conspiracy to incite'. However, all three were shortly afterwards released on appeal.\n\nFredy Perlman (August 20, 1934 – July 26, 1985) was a Czech-born, naturalised American author, publisher and militant. His most popular work, the book \"Against His-Story, Against Leviathan!\", details the rise of state domination with a retelling of history through the Hobbesian metaphor of the Leviathan. The book remains a major source of inspiration for anti-civilization perspectives in contemporary anarchism, most notably on the thought of philosopher John Zerzan.\n\nAnarcho-primitivism is an anarchist critique of the origins and progress of civilization. According to anarcho-primitivism, the shift from hunter-gatherer to agricultural subsistence gave rise to social stratification, coercion, and alienation. Anarcho-primitivists advocate a return to non-\"civilized\" ways of life through deindustrialisation, abolition of the division of labour or specialization, and abandonment of large-scale organization technologies. There are other non-anarchist forms of primitivism, and not all primitivists point to the same phenomenon as the source of modern, civilized problems. Anarcho-primitivists are often distinguished by their focus on the praxis of achieving a feral state of being through \"rewilding\".\n\nJohn Zerzan is an American anarchist and primitivist philosopher and author. His works criticize agricultural civilization as inherently oppressive, and advocate drawing upon the ways of life of hunter gatherers as an inspiration for what a free society should look like. Some subjects of his criticism include domestication, language, symbolic thought (such as mathematics and art) and the concept of time.\n\nHis five major books are \"Elements of Refusal\" (1988), \"Future Primitive and Other Essays\" (1994), \"Running on Emptiness\" (2002), \"\" (2005) and \"Twilight of the Machines\" (2008). Zerzan was one of the editors of \"Green Anarchy\", a controversial journal of anarcho-primitivist and insurrectionary anarchist thought. He is also the host of \"Anarchy Radio\" in Eugene on the University of Oregon's radio station KWVA. He has also served as a contributing editor at \"Anarchy Magazine\" and has been published in magazines such as \"AdBusters\". He does extensive speaking tours around the world, and is married to an independent consultant to museums and other nonprofit organizations. In 1974, Black and Red Press published \"Unions Against Revolution\" by Spanish ultra-left theorist Grandizo Munis that included an essay by Zerzan which previously appeared in the journal \"Telos\". Over the next 20 years, Zerzan became intimately involved with the \"Fifth Estate\", \"\", \"Demolition Derby \" and other anarchist periodicals. He began to question civilization in the early 80's, after having sought to confront issues around the neutrality of technology and division of labour, at the time when Fredy Perlman was making similar conclusions.\n\n\"Green Anarchy\" was a magazine published by a collective located in Eugene, Oregon. The magazine's focus was primitivism, post-left anarchy, radical environmentalism, African American struggles, anarchist resistance, indigenous resistance, earth and animal liberation, anti-capitalism and supporting political prisoners. It had a circulation of 8,000, partly in prisons, the prison subscribers given free copies of each issue as stated in the magazine. Green Anarchy was started in 2000 and in 2009 the Green Anarchy website shut down, leaving a final, brief message about the cessation of the magazine's publication. The subtitle of the magazine is \"An Anti-Civilization Journal of Theory and Action\". Author John Zerzan was one of the publication's editors.\n\n\"Species Traitor\" is a sporadically published journal of insurrectionary anarcho-primitivism. It is printed as a project of Black and Green Network and edited by anarcho-primitivist writer, Kevin Tucker. ST was initially labeled as a project of the Coalition Against Civilization (CAC) and the Black and Green Network (BAG). The CAC was started towards the end of 1999 in the aftermath of the massive street protests in Eugene (Reclaim the Streets) and in Seattle (WTO) of that year. That aftermath gave a new voice and standing for green anarchist and anarcho-primitivist writers and viewpoints within both the anarchist milieu and the culture at large. The first issue came out in winter of 2000-2001 (currently out of print) and contained a mix of reprints and some original articles from Derrick Jensen and John Zerzan among others. Issue two came in the following year in the wake of Sept. 11 and took a major step from the first issue in becoming something of its own rather than another mouthpiece of green anarchist rhetoric. The articles took a more in depth direction opening a more analytical and critical draw between anarchy and anthropology, attacks on Reason and the Progress/linear views of human history and Future that stand at the base of the ideology of civilization.\n\nVeganarchism or vegan anarchism, is the political philosophy of veganism (more specifically animal liberation and earth liberation) and anarchism, creating a combined praxis that is designed to be a means for social revolution. This encompasses viewing the state as unnecessary and harmful to animals, both human and non-human, whilst practising a vegan lifestyle. It is either perceived as a combined theory, or that both philosophies are essentially the same. It is further described as an anti-speciesist perspective on green anarchism, or an anarchist perspective on animal liberation.\n\nVeganarchists typically view oppressive dynamics within society to be interconnected, from statism, racism and sexism to human supremacy and redefine veganism as a radical philosophy that sees the state as harmful to animals. Those who believe in veganarchy can be either against reform for animals or for it, although do not limit goals to changes within the law.\n\nLayla AbdelRahim is a Canadian anthropologist and author. Her work critiques civilization, technologies, and, what she calls a \"predatory anthropology\". In \"Children's Literature, Domestication, and Social Foundation: Narratives of Civilization and Wilderness\" (2015), she attributes the Holocene extinction and climate change to the human choice of hunting as a cultural choice for subsistence. This anthropological revolution in human self-construction as predator, she argues, generated the need for developing the technologies that would ensure the propagation of a predatory culture and violence. \"The first of these technologies is ... the technology of absence. ... This entails physical and emotional absence, but also includes a metaphysical dimension, since technological development is literally linked to death. Namely, the rise of hunting, i.e. killing of others for food, during the Upper Palaeolithic period in the Middle East led some human groups to develop hunting technologies\". She cites palaeoanthropologist Clive Gamble who connects this development in hunting technologies to colonization and the work of anthropologist Richard Lee (1988) who links the appearance of human language to the rise in hunting activities during that period. AbdelRahim concludes that hunting \"thus led to domestication, and both of these cultures of subsistence kill intentionally and on a systematic basis\". Civilization with its cultural, political, and social institutions that classify living beings for the purpose of exploitation, she says, is the material manifestation of this cultural choice and anthropology.\n\n\"Wild Children – Domesticated Dreams: Civilization and the Birth of Education\" (2013) argues that civilized child rearing cultures are based on the principles of animal domestication. The institutions of education are responsible for the generation of the epistemology of predation and for the propagation of its ideology through scientific texts, pedagogical methods, and fictional narratives.\n\nTotal liberationism is a form of green anarchism that combines an opposition to all forms of human oppression with a commitment to animal and earth liberation. Whilst more conventional approaches to anarchist politics typically maintain a tacit assumption of anthropocentrism, proponents of total liberation espouse a holistic revolutionary strategy aimed at identifying the intersections between all forms of domination and social hierarchy, and building alliances between individual political movements in order to integrate them into a single movement aimed at abolishing a range of social structures such as the state, capitalism, patriarchy, racism, heterosexism, cissexism, disablism, ageism, speciesism, and ecological domination. As David Pellow summarises: The concept of total liberation stems from a determination to understand and combat all forms of inequality and oppression. I propose that it comprises four pillars: (1) an ethic of justice and anti-oppression inclusive of humans, nonhuman animals, and ecosystems; (2) anarchism; (3) anti-capitalism; and (4) an embrace of direct action tactics.\n\nDerrick Jensen is an American author and environmental activist (and critic of mainstream environmentalism) living in Crescent City, California. Jensen's work is sometimes characterized as anarcho-primitivist, although he has categorically rejected that label, describing primitivist as a \"racist way to describe indigenous peoples.\" He prefers to be called \"indigenist\" or an \"ally to the indigenous,\" because \"indigenous peoples have had the only sustainable human social organizations, and ... we need to recognize that we [colonizers] are all living on stolen land.\"\n\n\"A Language Older Than Words\" uses the lens of domestic violence to look at the larger violence of western culture. \"The Culture of Make Believe\" begins by exploring racism and misogyny and moves to examine how this culture's economic system leads inevitably to hatred and atrocity. \"Strangely Like War\" is about deforestation. \"Walking on Water\" is about education (It begins: \"As is true for most people I know, I've always loved learning. As is also true for most people I know, I always hated school. Why is that?\"). \"Welcome to the Machine\" is about surveillance, and more broadly about science and what he perceives to be a Western obsession with control. \"Resistance Against Empire\" consists of interviews with J. W. Smith (on poverty), Kevin Bales (on slavery), Anuradha Mittal (on hunger), Juliet Schor ('globalization' and environmental degradation), Ramsey Clark (on US 'defense'), Stephen Schwartz (editor of \"The Nonproliferation Review\", on nukes), Alfred McCoy (politics and heroin), Christian Parenti (the US prison system), Katherine Albrecht (on RFID), and Robert McChesney (on (freedom of) the media) conducted between 1999 and 2004. \"Endgame\" is about what he describes as the inherent unsustainability of civilization. In this book he asks: \"Do you believe that this culture will undergo a voluntary transformation to a sane and sustainable way of living?\" Nearly everyone he talks to says no. His next question is: \"How would this understanding — that this culture will not voluntarily stop destroying the natural world, eliminating indigenous cultures, exploiting the poor, and killing those who resist — shift our strategy and tactics? The answer? Nobody knows, because we never talk about it: we're too busy pretending the culture will undergo a magical transformation.\" \"Endgame\", he says, is \"about that shift in strategy, and in tactics.\" Jensen co-wrote the book \"Deep Green Resistance: Strategy to Save the Planet\" with Lierre Keith and Aric McBay\n\nCrimethInc. is a decentralized anarchist collective of autonomous cells. CrimethInc. emerged in the mid-1990s, initially as the hardcore zine \"Inside Front\", and began operating as a collective in 1996. It has since published widely read articles and zines for the anarchist movement and distributed posters and books of its own publication. Individuals adopting the CrimethInc. \"nom de guerre\" have included convicted ELF arsonists, as well as hacktivists who successfully attacked the websites of DARE, Republican National Committee and sites related to U.S. President George W. Bush's 2004 re-election campaign. The creation of propaganda has been described as the collectives' core function. Among their best-known publications are the books \"Days of War, Nights of Love\", \"Expect Resistance\", \"Evasion\", \"Recipes for Disaster: An Anarchist Cookbook\" and the pamphlet \"Fighting For Our Lives\" (of which, to date, they claim to have printed 600,000 copies), the hardcore punk/political zine \"Inside Front\", and the music of hardcore punk bands. As well as the traditional anarchist opposition to the state and capitalism, agents have, at times, advocated a straight edge lifestyle, the total supersession of gender roles, violent insurrection against the state, and the refusal of work.\n\nSome green anarchists engage in direct action (not to be confused with ecoterrorism). Organizing themselves through groups like Earth First!, Root Force, or more drastically the Earth Liberation Front ELF, Earth Liberation Army (ELA) and Animal Liberation Front (ALF). They may take direct action against what they see as systems of oppression, such as the logging industry, the meat and dairy industries, animal testing laboratories, genetic engineering facilities and, more rarely, government institutions.\n\nSuch actions are usually, though not always, non-violent, with groups such as The Olga Cell attempting assassinations of nuclear scientists, and other related groups sending letterbombs to nano tech and nuclear tech-related targets. Though not necessarily Green anarchists, activists have used the names Animal Rights Militia, Justice Department and Revolutionary Cells among others, to claim responsibility for openly violent attacks.\n\nRod Coronado is an eco-anarchist and is an unofficial spokesperson for the Animal Liberation Front and Earth Liberation Front. On February 28, 1992, Coronado carried out an arson attack on research facilities at Michigan State University (MSU), and released mink from a nearby research farm on campus, an action claimed by the ALF, and for which Coronado was subsequently convicted.\n\nIn 1997, the editors of \"Green Anarchist\" magazine and two British supporters of the Animal Liberation Front were tried in connection with conspiracy to incite violence, in what came to be known as the GANDALF trial.\n\nGreen anarchist Tre Arrow was sought by the FBI in connection with an ELF arson on April 15, 2001 at Ross Island Sand and Gravel in Portland, torching three trucks amounting of $200,000 in damage. Another arson occurred a month later at Ray Schoppert Logging Company in Estacada, Oregon, on June 1, 2001 against logging trucks and a front loader, resulting in $50,000 damage. Arrow was indicted by a federal grand jury in Oregon and charged with four felonies for this crime on October 18, 2002. On March 13, 2004, after fleeing to British Columbia, he was arrested in Victoria for stealing bolt cutters and was also charged with being in Canada illegally. He was then sentenced on August 12, 2008 to 78 months in federal prison for his part in the arson and conspiracy ELF attacks in 2001.\n\nIn January 2006, Eric McDavid, a green anarchist, was convicted of conspiring to use fire or explosives to damage corporate and government property. On March 8, he formally declared a hunger strike due to the jail refusing to provide him with vegan food. He has been given vegan food off and on since. In September 2007, he was convicted on all counts after the two activists he conspired with pleaded guilty testified against him. An FBI confidential source named \"Anna\" was revealed as a fourth participant, in what McDavid's defense argued was entrapment. In May 2008, he was sentenced to nearly 20 years in prison.\n\nOn March 3, 2006, a federal jury in Trenton, New Jersey convicted six members of SHAC, including green-anarchist Joshua Harper, for \"terrorism and Internet stalking\", according to the \"New York Times\", finding them guilty of using their website to \"incite attacks\" on those who did business with Huntingdon Life Sciences HLS. In September 2006, the SHAC 7 received jail sentences of 3 to 6 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31373244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31373244", "title": "Huaguangjiao One", "text": "Huaguangjiao One\n\nHuaguangjiao One () is a Chinese merchant ship, built during the Southern Song dynasty (1127-1279), that sank off the coast of Paracel Islands (Xisha Islands) in the South China Sea. The ship's name translates as \"Magnificent China Reef Wreck #1\". It was discovered in 1996 and is currently the oldest hull that China has discovered in the open seas.\n\nIn 1996, a group of Chinese fishermen discovered a , wide ship about three meters below the surface near the Huaguang Reef. The wreckage covered 180 square meters meaning that the ship would have had an estimated displacement capacity of 60 tons and 11 cabins. \n\nOn 15 March 2007, an archeological salvaging operation was organized by the National Museum of China and the Hainan Provincial Administration of Culture, Radio & Television, Publishing and Sport, and the excavation of the shipwreck site at Huaguang Reef initiated. This operation not only helped the archaeologists involved in the survey locate nearly 10 other shipwrecks in the surrounding area, but also helped establish the first time that China conducted high-seas excavation work.\n\nAccording to Dr. Zhang Wei, director of the China's Underwater Research Center with the National Museum at the time of the discovery, even though the wreck had been robbed many times and severely damaged by looters, the retrieval of the more than 10,000 pieces of antique pottery and porcelain, which seems to have mainly come from the Fujian and Guangdong kilns, most certainly provide a very important piece of information and undeniable evidence of an already well established maritime trade route, known as the \"Marine Silk Road\", between China and the rest of the world during the Song and Yuan Dynasty (1280-1368).\n\nMany fragments of porcelain and pottery were collected at the site, mostly concentrated in an area of 38 square meters within the reef. Among the items recovered were some exquisite blue white porcelain yielded from the Jingdezhen factory, in Jiangxi Province, shadowy blue porcelains, green glazed porcelain plates, pots and other rare antiques. Brown-glazed wares have also been found, indicating the possibility that they might be from an even earlier period in time. \n\nMany of the items recovered at the archeological site were later presented at a news conference in Haikou City, the capital of south China's Hainan Province on 8 May 2007. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "20375066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20375066", "title": "Iatromathematicians", "text": "Iatromathematicians\n\nIatromathematicians (from Greek ἰατρική \"medicine\" and μαθηματικά \"mathematics\") were a school of physicians in 17th-century Italy who tried to apply the laws of mathematics and mechanics in order to understand the functioning of the human body. They were also keen students of anatomy. These iantromathematicians made an effort to prove that applying a purely mechanical conception to the study of the human body is futile. The mechanical conceptions that they had referred to was Leonardo da Vinci’s studies of the human body, and the writings of Aristotle about the motion of animals related to geometric analysis. Iantromathematicians considered the bodies functioning to be measured by quantifiable numbers, weights, and measures.\n\nThe field of iatromathematics is allied to science; however, it lacks the applicability of the proper scientific method and is therefore considered a form of pseudoscience. It applies the study of astrology to medicine.\n\nIatromathematicians viewed the human body through astrological reasoning as well as mechanics. They associate various stars, or zodiac signs with the functioning of the human body. The twelve astrological signs contribute to each part of the body from head to toe. Moreover, planets and existing cosmos in space are correlated with certain parts of the body. Through examining a natal chart, iatromathematicians attempt to predict biological setbacks in an individual.\n\nIatromathematicians examine the active and energetic temperament of the human body. Moreover, they explore the causes of various health problems and attempt to find ways to treat certain detrimental diseases. In iatromathematics, there is a particular assumption that there is an impact of various energetic fields caused on the star bodies. The star body of an individual is often referred to by astrologists as an energetic matrix and is believed to be spawned by heavenly bodies such as the sun, moon, planets, and several other astrological signs.\n\nIatromathematicians study these conceptions and try to regulate the path of the star body of individuals so that it will give a positive, rather than a negative result. By doing so, they believe that it will contribute to a healthier lifestyle. Its doctrine is based on cosmobiology in which several emotional and physiological dilemmas in the body are associated with the positioning of celestial bodies in outer space.\n\nIatromathematics is closely correlated with biomechanics because the field of biomechanics investigates macrobiotic bodies to a macroscopic degree through the appliance of several engineering principles. The perspective of iatromathematicians differed from that of iatrophysicists and iatrochemists in terms of the way human bodies function. Iatrophysicists predicted the deviations from the biological norm of the body through the appliance of physics, while iatrochemists measured the detrimental problems of the body by chemical means.\n\nSeveral individuals contributed to this field study of iatromathematics. For example, Ibn Ezra (Rabbi Avraham Ben Meir Ibn Ezra) wrote nine different astrological treatises. He covered all the subsections of astrology which include the branches of natal, medicinal, horary, electional, and mundane. Ibn Ezra’s best known work was known as \"The Beginning of Wisdom\". Over time, various individuals studied his works comprehensively. One such person was George Sarton, who is the founder of the History of Science Society.\n\nRecently, Archibald Pitcairne was mentioned as the \"forgotten father of mathematical medicine\" and his contribution praised to creating the bases of iatromathematics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2535627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2535627", "title": "Imbrex and tegula", "text": "Imbrex and tegula\n\nThe imbrex and tegula (plurals imbrices and tegulae) were overlapping roof tiles used in ancient Greek and Roman architecture as a waterproof and durable roof covering. They were made predominantly of fired clay, but also sometimes of marble, bronze or gilt. In Rome, they replaced wooden shingles, and were used on almost every type of structure, from humble outbuildings to grand temples and public facilities.\n\nThe tegula (Greek solenes) was a plain flat tile, or a flat tile with raised edges, which was laid flat upon the roof, while the imbrex (Greek kalupter) was a semi-cylindrical roofing tile, like a half-pipe, laid over the joints between the tegulae. When well-made and properly imbricated (overlapped), there was little need for further waterproofing or sealant.\n\nThe roofing area was generally surrounded by antefixae which were often decorated, and had several decorative anthemia to cover each end row imbrex.\n\nThe concept of imbrex and tegula roofing in pitched roof construction is still in use today as an international feature of style and design, and is the origin of the term imbrication for the condition of things arranged in overlapping layers.\n\nImbrices and tegulae were first made by the Greeks. Like bricks, they were formed of wet clay in a four-sided mould, often shaped with a piece of wire, and then baked in an oven or kiln. More sophisticated moulds were developed over time.\n\nTegulae were originally made perfectly flat, or with nothing more than a ridge underneath the upper border, which allowed the tile to be \"hung\" upon a sloping roof so that it would not slide to the ground. Later, tegulae were formed with a raised border on the two vertical sides, which would channel rainwater to the bottom of the tile, rather than allowing it to seep between tiles to dampen the roofing materials. Another improvement occurred when these two raised borders were made to converge, forming a broad v-shaped trapezoid with the narrowest edge downwards, nestling into the widest part of the tile below it to form a continuous channel.\n\nThe imbrices completed the waterproofing of the roof by arching over the joints between the vertical edges of the tegulae, dividing the roof into channels. Rain water flowed off the curved imbrices into the channels and down over the surfaces of the tegulae, and descended into the gutter (\"canalis\"). In formal architecture the \"canalis\" had a plain or ornamented frontal piece set atop the entablature, immediately above the cornice. The semicircular opening at the front of the lowermost imbrex was often capped with an ornamental \"fronton\", and the spouts which drained the gutters were frequently decorated with lions' heads (\"capita leonina\") or other fantastic or grotesque faces.\nBy Roman times many tiles were being made under the auspices of various Roman legions, and were imprinted with a stamp of the legion's insignia. Imbrices and tegulae are common finds in archaeological sites, and their design and markings can be of use in dating the sites and identifying the inhabitants. For instance, a 1993 archaeological dig in Merseyside in England uncovered over of tile and kiln remains. Some of the tegulae were stamped with the \"LXXVV\" insigniae of the Legio XX Valeria Victrix. Romans also often recycled broken tiles by incorporating them into mortar.\n\nTiles of marble were first used around the year 620 BC. Besides the superior beauty and durability of the material, these tiles could be made of a much larger size than those of clay. Consequently, they were used in the construction of the greatest temples, such as the Temple of Zeus at Olympia, the Parthenon at Athens, and the Serapeum at Puteoli (modern Pozzuoli). Still more expensive and magnificent tiles were made of bronze and gilt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6307003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6307003", "title": "Inside Hitler's Bunker", "text": "Inside Hitler's Bunker\n\nInside Hitler's Bunker: The Last Days of the Third Reich () is a book by historian Joachim Fest about the last days of the life of Adolf Hitler, in his Berlin \"Führerbunker\" in 1945.\n\nThe book was originally published in Germany in 2002. The English translation was released in 2004. The book formed source material for the 2004 German film \"Der Untergang\" (\"The Downfall\") in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58580238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58580238", "title": "Iraqi insurgency (2017–present)", "text": "Iraqi insurgency (2017–present)\n\nThe Iraqi Insurgency (2017–present) is an insurgency that began in late 2017 after multiple defeats of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), causing it to lose its territorial control, by the Iraqi military (largely backed by the United States) and allied paramilitary forces (largely backed by Iran).\n\nThe insurgency is a direct continuation of the Iraqi Civil War from 2014 to 2017, with mostly Sunni rebel groups continuing armed opposition against the Shia-led Iraqi Government. Along with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), other insurgents fighting the government include a group known as the White Flags which is reportedly composed of former ISIL members and Kurdish rebels and is believed by the government of Iraq to be part of Ansar al-Islam and possibly affiliated with al-Qaeda. The group operates mostly in the Kirkuk Governorate and has used an assortment of guerilla tactics against government forces. Other factions opposed to the Iraqi government include the Iraqi Baath Party currently led by Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri a former official to Saddam Hussein during his rule in Iraq and has been active in Iraq's conflict since the US-led invasion in 2003 leading multiple factions including the Naqshbandi Army and Supreme Command for Jihad and Liberation.\n\nSince ISIL's loss of Mosul in late 2017 which was declared as Iraq's victory over ISIL and widely seen as an end to the civil war, and declared as such by Iraq's Prime Minister Haidar al-Abadi, multiple incidents of violence have occurred being carried out by the conflicting sides, in spite of Iraq's declaration of victory over ISIL the group is widely seen as far from gone and continues to retain a presence throughout Iraq, and still capable of carrying out attacks and skirmishes with pro-government forces. ISIL has been waging a guerrilla war with a strong presence in the governorates of Kirkuk, Diyala, Saladin, and the Sulaymaniyah Governorate, with local forces largely ill-equipped and inexperienced, ISIL has also taken advantage of the areas rough terrain to carry out operations. ISIL has also made a notable presence in the cities of Kirkuk, Hawija and Tuz Khurmato and has carried out attacks at night in rural areas.\n\nISIL fighters also reportedly move through villages during the day without interference from security forces, and locals have been asked by ISIL to give fighters food and give information on the whereabouts of Iraqi personnel, locals have also stated that ISIL fighters will frequently enter into Mosques and ask for Zakat to fund the insurgency. Among ISIL's operations include assassinations, kidnappings, raids and ambushes.\n\nAccording to The Pentagon ISIL is still stronger than it was between 2006–2007 when the group declared the Islamic State of Iraq during its incarnation as al-Qaeda in Iraq, citing a UN report which claimed that ISIL still had 20.000-30.000 fighters in Syria and Iraq. That claim of strength was simultaneously tempered though, with The Pentagon saying that ISIL had lost all of its territory and fighters were scattered, making them much less of a threat. The Pentagon predicted that ISIL will lose strength because of their dispersion in a way similar to what happened to al-Qaeda, while also warning that ISIL is still in a position to make a comeback.\n\nFollowing ISIL's defeat they have been greatly weakened and violence in Iraq has been sharply reduced in 2018. Only 95 people lost their lives during the month of May, the lowest figure in 10 years.\n\nBetween January and February 2018, Iraqi security forces and Peshmerga clashed with the White Flags around parts of the Kirkuk and Saladin governorates for control of oil fields which the Iraqi government claims the group's priority is. The Iraqi government said in the clashes the composition of the White Flag's fighters are ISIL members and individuals linked to the Kurdish mafia, the government also alleges that the Kurdish Regional Government allowed oil theft to occur in the area while it was under their control and enabled ISIL for their own interests.\n\nIn March 2018, In two separate attacks ISIL reportedly killed 10 individuals including a pro-government Sunni tribal Sheikh along with his son and guests at his house in the town of Al-Shirqat south of Mosul, in the other attack ISIL killed 5 individuals from the same family whom were Iraqi Turkmen and Shia at a fake checkpoint set up by the group posing as Iraqi security forces.\n\nOn 22 March 2018, At a checkpoint set up by ISIL the group killed six individuals and injured 15 others from the Iraqi Turkmen minority on their way to Erbil from Baghdad between Tuz Khurmato and Daquq to celebrate Nowruz, the attack was condemned by Turkey and Zowaa claimed one of their MPs was present during the attack but managed to escape unharmed.\n\nOn 2 April 2018, In an operation around Tuz Khurmato and Kirkuk against ISIL and the White Flags a Popular Mobilization Forces Major General named Ali Khalifa was killed.\n\nIn June 2018, The Popular Mobilization Forces took part in a cross-border battle in Syria to assist Pro-Syrian Government forces and militias including Hezbollah and Russian mercenaries against ISIL in their offensive on the border town of Albu Kamal. The Israeli Air Force later targeted the area on 19 June and large concentration of Iranian backed groups. During the same month the Government of Canada announced that it will suspened Canadian support for Peshmerga and work exclusively with the Iraqi government, in a statement a Canadian military official said “We have changed … partners,”, a Canadian General told reporters about the shift in support “Training with the Peshmerga was ceased when it was no longer of any value in terms of the battle against Da’esh [IS].”\n\nOn 11 July 2018, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced that Canada would lead a NATO mission to Iraq with European allies to send 250 Canadian soldiers to Baghdad, 50 will be doing the actual training while the other 125 will be doing force protection and another 20 will help run Canadian headquarters in Baghdad.\n\nOn 4 August 2018, Chairman of the Iraqi Baath Party, Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri in a statement broadcast on Facebook in commemoration of the anniversary of the Baath Party called on Iraqis to continue fighting the Iraqi government and allied Iranian backed groups calling them Safavids, he also called on Saudi Arabia to intervene against Iran's influence in Iraq and praised the country. And condemned the battle of Mosul and other battles that led up to it and claimed that Haidar al-Abadi had ordered the destruction of the cities of Ramadi, Tikrit, Fallujah and others.\n\nOn 11 August 2018, ISIL launched an attack from the Hamrin Mountains on the village of Albu Juwari north of Baiji, in the assault a militia fighter affiliated with the Popular Mobilization Forces in the village, in an interview with PressTV, claimed that in the clashes 5 of his family members were killed by ISIL and a sixth was left critically injured.\n\nOn 6 September 2018, Mortar fire was reported near the US embassy in Baghdad's Green Zone from a neighborhood controlled by the Popular Mobilization Force's component Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq, a Shia paramilitary group backed by Iran, the group fired 120mm mortars, no casualties or injuries were reported, the embassy did take security measures in response to the attack.\n\nOn 26 September 2018, an Iraqi commander with the Popular Mobilization Force's 21st Brigade survived an ISIL assassination attempt that included the use of a roadside IED in the Mutaibija region of Saladin, while he did survive three of his guard were reported wounded, ISIL reportedly continues to carryout sporadic clashes with its campaign being compared to the one they carried out in 2013 eventually leading to the 2014 civil war.\n\nOn 1 October 2018, A roadside bomb planted by ISIL in the Kirkuk Governorate near Hawija killed an Iraqi police officer and wounded two others. On the same day ISIL published photos of a night raid in the village of Daquq, in the southern part of the Kirkuk Governorate, showing fighters burning down the house of a village elder cooperating with the Iraqi government. ISIL also carried out a series of attacks targeting electrical facilities to sabotage the electrical grid to cutoff electricity for the Iraqi military and allied forces around Kirkuk, ISIL fighters also planted explosives around several transmission towers, the destruction of the towers caused several blackouts in Hawija and Kirkuk. \n\nOn 3 October 2018, The Government of Germany announced a planned extension of its military involvement in Iraq for one year to combat ISIL but will end air reconnaissance missions by 31 October 2019. On the same day unknown gunmen believed to be ISIL, killed an individual by driving up to them in a car and opening fire, the targeted individual reportedly died on the spot as a result of the gunshot wounds.\n\nOn 4 October 2018, An operation against ISIL was started by the Iraqi military along with the military forces of France and the United States under the CJTF-OIR coalition in the Anbar Governorate around the city of Qaim and the Syrian border where ISIL continues to operate and maintain a strong and large presence. During the operation ISIL claimed to thwart an American-led assault near the Syrian border and also claimed to have killed 3 US soldiers and wounded 4 others in the clashes, the US military has not confirmed or denied the claimed losses.\n\nOn 5 October 2018, US-led Coalition planes bombed an ISIL position in the village of Kushaf near the Tigris river in the Kirkuk Governorate, reportedly killing 6 ISIL members, on the same day ISIL detonated a roadside bomb killing an oil employee and injuring 11 others in a bus in Baiji in the Saladin Governorate, and in a separate attack in Fallujah in the Anbar Governorate ISIL detonated a car bomb injuring an Iraqi policeman and 3 others. ISIL released a video from Kirkuk, that showed its fighters planting IEDs, as well as carrying out ambushes and raids on Iraqi outposts. The video also claimed that the group has killed and injured more than 927 government forces since 2017 in the Kirkuk region, and in the end video the group executed several individuals in remote areas and assassinated two individuals cooperating with the Iraqi government at their houses. \n\nOn 7 October 2018, ISIL claimed responsibility for the use of an explosive device in the Kadhimiya neighborhood of Baghdad that resulted in the death and injury of 12 Shiites.\n\nOn 8 October 2018, Iraq's interior minister Qasim al-Araji in a video posted on his Facebook page claimed that an unnamed extremist group is behind the murder of a 22 year-old Iraqi model who won Miss Baghdad in 2015 and was shot while driving her car while she was in Baghdad in September. On the same day ISIL militants shot dead two Iraqi Policemen at a checkpoint near Mosul, and fled the scene afterwards.\n\nOn 9 October 2018, 4 Popular Mobilization Forces militia fighters were killed in an attack by ISIL in the Hit district of the Anbar Governorate.\n\nOn 10 October 2018, At least 10 Iraqi security forces were killed when ISIL insurgents attacked a gas field on the western part of the Anbar Province.\n\nOn 16 October 2018, an Iraqi policeman was killed while two others were injured fighting with ISIL in western Kirkuk. On the same day Iraqi Federal forces detained a Kurdish reporter covering news about strikes in Tuz Khurmato in anniversary of the Iraqi takeover of Kirkuk.\n\nOn 17 October 2018, an unofficial ISIL linked media outlet claimed the death of 6 Badr Organization militia fighters in Diyala as the result of ISIL IED.\n\nOn 20 October 2018, an explosive device went off at a mosque in the Zubeir district of Basra, no group has claimed responsibility nor were any casualties or injuries reported.\n\nOn 23 October 2018, a car bomb went off in the Qayyara district of Mosul killing 6 individuals and leaving 30 injured, no group has claimed responsibility for the bombing however Iraqi officials have accused ISIL of carrying out the attack.\n\nOn 24 October 2018, Turkish foreign minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu stated that Turkey would support the Iraqi government in reconstruction and in training the Iraqi military as part of a NATO mission saying, \"Iraq’s reconstruction is important. We (Turkey) are the most generous country. We pledged $5 billion loan [for Iraq]. Our firms will benefit from this money with investment, trade and by undertaking projects [there]\" adding \"Now, as NATO, we will train Iraqi security forces\".\n\nOn 26 October 2018, five individuals were killed in Al-Ba'aj in the Nineveh Governorate west of Mosul after being abducted by ISIL for cooperating with the Iraqi military by gathering information about the group.\nOn 28 October 2018, South Korea sent a shipment of 6 KAI T-50 Golden Eagle fighter jets, the Iraqi ministry of defense said this was the third shipment of fighters jets provided by South Korea. On the same day the Iraqi military accidentally shelled a village in the Diyala Governorate where ISIL was thought to be present but wasn't, no casualties were reported, this is reportedly the second such incident in the month of October, with the last incident happening days before.\n\nOn 29 October 2018, in response to a successful counter-attack by ISIL against the Syrian Democratic Forces along the Iraqi-Syrian border the Iraqi government deployed PMU militiamen along the border to reinforce sensitive positions in fears of a potential ISIL cross-border infiltration. On the same day Italy announced a planned end to military operations in Iraq in support of both the Kurdistan Regional Government and Iraqi Government by the spring of 2019.\n\nOn 30 October 2018, Two Shiite pilgrims were killed and another injured in an ISIL attack on an Arbaeen celebration in the town of Khanaqin in the Diyala Governorate, after the explosion police reportedly attempted to defuse a device.\n\nOn 31 October 2018, A man was killed and his son were injured in a suspected ISIL attack near a shrine in the town of Makhmur, Iraq.\n\nOn 1 November 2018, A land mine struck a vehicle of a governor near Baiji, two of his bodyguards were injured while the governor escaped unscathed, also that day A bomb targeting a military patrol exploded in West Mosul killing a soldier and injuring at least seven more, ISIL was most likely behind the attack. On the same day clashes occurred between Arab and Kurdish farmers in Daquq due to Arab farmers asking Kurdish farmers to leave the area, while the Kurdish claimed the area was theirs.\n\nOn 2 November 2018, ISIL claimed to have killed a French soldier via the Amaq Agency whom was cooperating with Peshmerga in a combined operation in the village of Balkanah in the Tuz Khurmato district of the Kirkuk Governorate, ISIL published the claims in Arabic and French, the French military denied the claim via Twitter. On the same day ISIL began attempts to infiltrate Iraq from Syria in Rabii'a subdistrict 130 kilometers west of Mosul. In the clashes 4 Iraqi soldiers were killed & 2 ISIL fighters were killed near Iraqi border.\n\nOn 4 November 2018, A series of bombings struck several different areas in the capital of Iraq, Baghdad, killing at least seven people and injuring an additional 14, ISIL claimed responsibility for the bombings.\n\nOn 8 November 2018, A car bomb exploded near a restaurant in the Iraqi city of Mosul killing at least 4 people and injuring 12 according to Iraqi officials, ISIL was most likely behind the attack.\n\nOn 9 November 2018, Three civilians were killed in an armed attack by ISIL in a village located near southern Mosul.\n\nOn 11 November 2018, Nine people including eight civilians and one tribal fighter were killed when ISIL attacked a house of a fighter of the Tribal Mobilization Forces near the Al-Karmah area in Iraq.\n\nOn 12 November 2018, Two people were captured including a policeman and a civilian and then executed by Islamic State militants in a village in the southern Kirkuk Province.\n\nOn 15 November 2018, A bomb detonated while a police vehicle was on its way from Mosul to a nearby village leaving 2 civilians dead and a policeman injured, ISIL was most likely behind the attack.\n\nOn 18 November 2018, A car bomb detonated in the city of Tikrit killing 5 civilians and injuring 16 others, ISIL claimed responsibility for the attack.\n\nOn 19 November 2018, A bomb and shooting attack on a police patrol killed an officer and wounded four others in the area of the Khanaqin, no group claimed responsibility but ISIL was most likely behind the blast.\n\nOn 22 November 2018, A roadside bomb detonated near a bus in a town near Mosul killing four schoolchildren and injuring seven others, no group claimed responsibility but the attack was blamed on ISIL..That same day, Two paramilitary soldiers were killed and four others wounded when their vehicle ran over a landmine near the Badush Dam, the landmine had been left by ISIL.\n\n"}
{"id": "40438174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40438174", "title": "Jewish left", "text": "Jewish left\n\nThe Jewish left consists of Jews who identify with, or support, left-wing or liberal causes, consciously as Jews, either as individuals or through organizations. There is no one organization or movement which constitutes the Jewish left, however. Jews have been major forces in the history of the labor movement, the settlement house movement, the women's rights movement, anti-racist work, and anti-fascist and anti-capitalist organizations of many forms in Europe, the United States and modern-day Israel. Jews have a rich history of involvement in anarchism, socialism, Marxism, and Western liberalism. Although the expression \"on the left\" covers a range of politics, many well-known figures \"on the left\" have been of Jews who were born into Jewish families and have various degrees of connection to Jewish communities, Jewish culture, Jewish tradition, or the Jewish religion in its many variants.\n\nJewish leftism has its philosophic roots in the Jewish Enlightenment, or Haskalah, led by thinkers such as Moses Mendelssohn, as well as the support of many European Jews such as Ludwig Börne for republican ideals in the aftermath of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, a movement for Jewish Emancipation spread across Europe, strongly associated with the emergence of political liberalism, based on the Enlightenment principles of rights and equality under the law. Because liberals represented the political left of the time (see left-right politics), emancipated Jews, as they entered the political culture of the nations where they lived, became closely associated with liberal parties. Thus, many Jews supported the American Revolution of 1776, the French Revolution of 1789, and the European Revolutions of 1848; while Jews in England tended to vote for the Liberal Party, which had led the parliamentary struggle for Jewish Emancipation — an arrangement called by some scholars \"the liberal Jewish compromise\".\n\nIn the age of industrialisation in the late nineteenth century, a Jewish working class emerged in the cities of Eastern and Central Europe. Before long, a Jewish labour movement emerged too. The Jewish Labour Bund–General Jewish Labor Union was formed in Lithuania, Poland, and Russia in 1897. Distinctive Jewish socialist organizations formed and spread across the Jewish Pale of Settlement in the Russian Empire. There were also a significant number of people of Jewish origin who did not explicitly identify as Jews per se, but were active in anarchist, socialist, and social democratic as well as communist organizations, movements, and parties.\n\nAs Zionism grew in strength as a political movement, socialist Zionist parties were formed, such as Ber Borochov's Poale Zion. There were non-Zionist left-wing forms of Jewish nationalism, such as territorialism (which called for a Jewish national homeland, but not necessarily in Palestine), autonomism (which called for non-territorial national rights for Jews in multinational empires), and the folkism, advocated by Simon Dubnow, (which celebrated the Jewish culture of the Yiddish-speaking masses).\n\nAs Eastern European Jews migrated West from the 1880s, these ideologies took root in growing Jewish communities, such as London's East End, Paris's Pletzl, New York City's Lower East Side, and Buenos Aires. There was a lively Jewish anarchist scene in London, a central figure of which was, the non-Jewish German thinker and writer Rudolf Rocker. The important Jewish socialist movement in the United States, with its Yiddish-language daily, \"The Forward\", and trade unions such as the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers. Important figures in these milieux included Rose Schneiderman, Abraham Cahan, Morris Winchevsky, and David Dubinsky.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Jews played a major role in the Social Democratic parties of Germany, Russia, Austria-Hungary, and Poland. Historian Enzo Traverso has used the term \"Judeo-Marxism\" to describe the innovative forms of Marxism associated with these Jewish socialists. These ranged from strongly cosmopolitan positions hostile to all forms of nationalism (as with Rosa Luxemburg and, to a lesser extent, Leon Trotsky) to positions more sympathetic to cultural nationalism (as with the Austromarxists or Vladimir Medem).\n\nAs with the American revolution of 1776, the French revolution of 1789, and the German revolution of 1848, many Jews worldwide welcomed the Russian revolution of 1917, celebrating the fall of a regime that had presided over antisemitic pogroms, and believing that the new order in what was to become the Soviet Union would bring improvements in the situation of Jews in those lands. Many Jews became involved in Communist parties, constituting large proportions of their membership in many countries, including Great Britain and the U.S. There were specifically Jewish sections of many Communist parties, such as the Yevsektsiya in the Soviet Union. The Communist regime in the USSR pursued what could be characterised as ambivalent policies towards Jews and Jewish culture, at times supporting their development as a national culture (e. g., sponsoring significant Yiddish language scholarship and creating an autonomous Jewish territory in Birobidzhan), at times pursuing antisemitic purges, such as that in the wake of the so-called Doctors' plot. (See also Komzet.)\n\nWith the advent of fascism in parts of Europe in the 1920s and 1930s, many Jews responded by becoming actively involved in the left, and particularly the Communist parties, which were at the forefront of the anti-fascist movement. For example, many Jewish volunteers fought in the International Brigades in the Spanish Civil War (for instance in the American Abraham Lincoln Brigade and in the Polish-Jewish Naftali Botwin Company). Jews and leftists fought Oswald Mosley's British fascists at the Battle of Cable Street. This mass movement was influenced by the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn World War II, the Jewish left played a major part in resistance to Nazism. For example, Bundists and left Zionists were key in Żydowska Organizacja Bojowa and the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. \n\nAs well as the movements rooted in the Jewish working class, relatively assimilated middle class Jews in Central and Western Europe began to search for sources of radicalism in Jewish tradition. For example, Martin Buber drew on Hasidism in articulating his anarchist philosophy, Gershom Scholem was an anarchist and a kabbalah scholar, Walter Benjamin was equally influenced by Marxism and Jewish messianism, Gustav Landauer was a religious Jew and a libertarian communist, Jacob Israël de Haan combined socialism with Haredi Judaism, while left-libertarian Bernard Lazare became a passionately Jewish Zionist in 1897, but wrote 2 years later to Herzl - and by extension to the Zionist Action Committee -, \"You are bourgeois in thoughts, bourgeois in your feelings, bourgeois in your ideas, bourgeois in your conception of society.\". In Weimar Germany, Walther Rathenau was a leading figure of the Jewish left.\n\nIn the twentieth century, especially after the Second Aliyah, socialist Zionism - first developed in Russia by the Marxist Ber Borochov and the non-Marxists Nachman Syrkin and A. D. Gordon - became a powerful force in the Yishuv, the Jewish settlement in Palestine. Poale Zion, the Histadrut labour union and the Mapai party played a major part in the campaign for an Israeli state, with socialist politicians like David Ben-Gurion and Golda Meir amongst the founders of the nation. At the same time, the kibbutz movement was an experiment in practical socialism.\n\nIn the 1940s, many on the left advocated a binational state in Israel/Palestine, rather than an exclusively Jewish state. (This position was taken by Hannah Arendt and Martin Buber, for example). Since independence in 1948, there has been a lively Israeli left, both Zionist (the Labour Party, Meretz) and anti-Zionist (Palestine Communist Party, Maki). The Labour Party and its predecessors have been in power in Israel for significant periods since 1948.\n\nThere are two worldwide groupings of left-wing Zionist organizations. The World Labour Zionist Movement, associated with the Labor Zionist tendency, is a loose association, including Avoda, Habonim Dror, Histadrut and Na'amat. The World Union of Meretz, associated with what was historically known as the Socialist Zionist tendency, is a loose association of the Israeli Meretz party, the Hashomer Hatzair Socialist Zionist youth movement, the Kibbutz Artzi Federation and the Givat Haviva research and study center. Both movements exist as factions within the World Zionist Organization, as well as regional or country-specific Zionist movements; the two roughly correspond to the interwar split between the Poale Zion Right (the tradition that led to Avoda) and the Poale Zion Left (Hashomer Hatzair, Mapam, Meretz).\n\nSouth Africa's Jewish left-wing was heavily involved in left-wing causes such as the anti-apartheid movement. The most famous member of the anti-apartheid Jewish left-wing was Helen Suzman, DBE. There were also several liberal left-wing Jewish defendants in the Rivonia Trial: Joe Slovo, Denis Goldberg, Lionel Bernstein, Bob Hepple, Arthur Goldreich, Harold Wolpe, and James Kantor.\n\nAs the Jewish working class died out in the years after the Second World War, its institutions and political movements did too. The Arbeter Ring in England, for example, came to an end in the 1950s and Jewish trade unionism in the US ceased to be a major force at that time. There are, however, still some remnants of the Jewish working class organizations left today, including the Workmen's Circle, Jewish Labor Committee, and \"The Forward\" (newspaper) in New York, the International Jewish Labor Bund in Australia, and the United Jewish People's Order in Canada.\n\nThe 1960s-1980s saw a renewal of interest among Western Jews in Jewish working class culture and the various radical traditions of the Jewish past. This led to the growth of a new sort of radical Jewish organization that was both interested in Yiddish culture, Jewish spirituality, and social justice. In the US, for example, between 1980–1992, New Jewish Agenda functioned as a national, multi-issue progressive membership organization with the mission of acting as a \"Jewish voice on the Left and a Left voice in the Jewish Community\". In 1991, Jews for Racial and Economic Justice formed to fight for \"equitable distribution of economic and cultural resources and political power\" in New York City. And in 1999, leftists broke from the LA chapter of the American Jewish Congress to form the Progressive Jewish Alliance. In Britain, the Jewish Socialists' Group and Rabbi Michael Lerner's Tikkun have similarly continued this tradition, while more recently groups like Jewdas have taken an even more eclectic and radical approach to Jewishness. In Belgium, the Union des progressistes juifs de Belgique is, since 1969, the heir of the Jewish Communist and Bundist Solidarité movement in the Belgian Resistance, embracing the Israeli refuseniks cause as well as of the undocumented immigrants in Belgium.\n\nDuring the first decade of the 2000s, the Israeli–Palestinian conflict became a defining element in the composition of the diasporic Jewish left. A new wave of Jewish organizations formed to support Palestinian causes. Groups such as Jewish Voice for Peace, Independent Jewish Voices (Canada), Independent Jewish Voices (UK) and the International Jewish Anti-Zionist Network gave renewed voice to Jewish Anti-Zionism. This perspective continues to be reflected in media outlets such as Mondoweiss and the Treyf Podcast.\n\nFollowing the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, many leftist Jewish organizations in the US and Canada focused on directly challenging establishment Jewish organizations such as the Jewish Federation, American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the Anti-Defamation League, and Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs, for their support for Israel's actions during the conflict. In the US, this intra-community conflict expanded to domestic politics following the United States presidential election, 2016. Groups such as If Not Now, Jewish Voice for Peace, and Jews for Racial and Economic Justice began organizing under the banner of #JewishResistance to \"challenge institutional Jewish support for the Trump administration and affiliated white nationalists\".\n\nAccording to exit polls, 71% of American Jews voted Democrat during the 2016 US Presidential election. Over the last decade, the Jewish vote has gone to Democrats by 76–80% in each election. A large majority of American Jews also report feeling somewhat or very attached to Israel.\n\nOperating in a parliamentary governmental system based on proportional representation, left-wing political parties and blocs in Israel have been able to elect members of the Knesset with varying degrees of success. Over time, those parties have evolved, with some merging, others disappearing, and new parties arising.\n\nIsraeli left-wing parties have included:\n\nNotable figures in these parties have included: Meir Vilner, Shulamit Aloni, Uri Avnery, Yossi Beilin, Ran Cohen, Matti Peled, Amnon Rubinstein, and Yossi Sarid.\n\nBritish Jews have been influential in the left-wing politics of the United Kingdom for many years, especially in the main social democratic/socialist party, the Labour Party, but also in the socially liberal Liberal Democrats.\n\nDuring the years when the Liberal Party was Britain's main party of the left, two Jews in particular attained high office: Herbert Samuel, who led the Liberal Party from 1930–1935, and Rufus Isaacs, the only British Jew to have been created a Marquess. Other notable Liberal Jews of the 1800s and early 1900s included: Lionel de Rothschild, the first Jew to serve as an MP, Sir David Salomons, Sir Francis Goldsmid, Sir George Jessel, Arthur Cohen, The Lord Swaythling, Sir Edward Sassoon, The Lord Hore-Belisha Edwin Samuel Montagu, Ignaz Trebitsch-Lincoln, and The Lord Wandsworth.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, the Liberal Party gave way to the more radical and socialist Labour Party. Leonard Woolf and Hugh Franklin were among the figures influential in the early Labour Party, and Jewish MPs like Barnett Janner, Sir Percy Harris and The Lord Nathan were among the radical Liberal MPs, many of whom switched from Liberal to Labour, economists like Harold Laski and Nicholas Kaldor and intellectuals like Victor Gollancz and Karl Mannheim provided the intellectual impetus for British socialism to take hold. Prominent early Labour MPs included The Lord Silkin, who became a Minister in Clement Attlee's government, Sydney Silverman, who abolished capital punishment in Britain, and The Lord Shinwell, one of the leaders of Red Clydeside who later became Secretary of State for War.\n\nAt the end of the Second World War, the Labour Party entered government again, and several newly elected Labour MPs were Jewish, and often on the socialist left of the Party, radicalised by incidents like the Battle of Cable Street. Those MPs included Herschel Lewis Austin, Maurice Edelman, and Ian Mikardo, as well as Phil Piratin, one of only four MPs in British history to have represented the Communist Party of Great Britain. Several MPs elected in the 1940s and 1950s went on to be Ministers in Harold Wilson's governments of the 1960s and 1970s: The Lord Barnett, Edmund Dell, John Diamond, Reg Freeson, The Baroness Gaitskell, Myer Galpern, Gerald Kaufman, The Lord Lever of Manchester, Paul Rose, The Lord Segal, The Baroness Serota, The Lord Sheldon, John and Samuel Silkin, Barnett Stross, and David Weitzman. A prominent Jewish Labour politician in this era was Leo Abse, who put forward the private members' bill which decriminalised homosexuality and reformed the divorce laws in Britain. Robert Maxwell, a Labour MP during the 1964–66 Wilson government, eventually became a leading newspaper publisher when his holding company purchased Mirror Group Newspapers in 1984.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, the Labour Party experienced significant turbulence with the rise of the entryist Militant tendency (a Trotskyist group led by Ted Grant), and the centre-left Social Democratic Party (SDP) breaking away and forming an Alliance with the Liberal Party (who had two Jewish MPs, The Lord Carlile of Berriew and Clement Freud), later to unite as the Liberal Democrats. One such parliamentary defector to the SDP was Neville Sandelson, and the Keynesian economist The Lord Skidelsky also defected. Those Jewish Labour MPs who stuck with the party included Harry Cohen, Alf Dubs, Millie Miller, Eric Moonman, and David Winnick.\n\nDuring the late 1980s and 1990s, with the shift away from the socialist left of the party, and during Tony Blair's leadership of the Labour Party, notable senior Jewish politicians included Peter Mandelson, one of the architects of \"New Labour\", Peter Goldsmith, Baron Goldsmith, The Lord Beecham, and The Lord Gould of Brookwood. Mandelson, party fund-raiser The Lord Levy and Jack Straw (who is of partial Jewish ancestry), were accused by Tam Dalyell, MP, of being a \"cabal of Jewish advisers\" around Blair. Several of Blair's Ministers and Labour backbenchers were Jewish or partially Jewish, including Barbara Roche, Dame Margaret Hodge, Fabian Hamilton, Louise Ellman, The Baroness Hayman, The Baroness King of Bow, and Gillian Merron. Labour donors during the 1990s and 2000s who were Jewish included David Abrahams, The Lord Bernstein of Craigweil, Richard Caring, Sir Trevor Chinn, Sir David Garrard, The Lord Gavron, Sir Emmanuel Kaye, Andrew Rosenfeld, The Lord Sainsbury of Turville, and Barry Townsley. Several of these were caught up in the Cash for Honours scandal.\n\nUnder the government of Blair's successor, Gordon Brown, brothers David Miliband and Ed Miliband became members of the Cabinet. Their father was the Marxist academic Ralph Miliband. The brothers differed in their view of the party's future direction, and they fought a bitter leadership election against each other in 2010. Ed Miliband won the election and became the first Jewish leader of the Labour Party. One of Miliband's Shadow Cabinet members, Ivan Lewis, as well as advisers David Axelrod, Arnie Graf, and The Lord Glasman are all Jewish.\n\nCurrent Jewish Labour politicians include: William Bach, The Lord Bassam of Brighton, Luciana Berger, Michael Cashman, The Lord Grabiner, Ruth Henig, The Lord Kestenbaum, Jonathan Mendelsohn, Janet Neel Cohen, Meta Ramsay, Catherine Stihler, Andrew Stone, Alan Sugar, Leslie Turnberg, and Robert Winston.\n\nSince the foundation of the Liberal Democrats, several Jews have achieved prominence: David Alliance, the aforementioned Alex Carlisle, Miranda Green, Olly Grender, Sally Hamwee, Evan Harris, Susan Kramer, Anthony Lester, Jonathan Marks, Julia Neuberger, Monroe Palmer, Paul Strasburger, and Lynne Featherstone, who became a Minister in the Coalition government 2010-15.\n\n"}
{"id": "3641823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3641823", "title": "Joe &amp; Mac", "text": "Joe &amp; Mac\n\n, also known as Caveman Ninja, is a 1991 platform game released for the arcades by Data East. It was later adapted for the Super NES, Genesis, Nintendo Entertainment System, Game Boy, Amiga, Zeebo, Nintendo Switch, and PC.\n\nThe game stars the green-haired Joe and the blue-haired Mac, cavemen who battle through numerous prehistoric levels using weapons such as boomerangs, bones, fire, flints, electricity, stone wheels, and clubs. The objective of the game is to rescue a group of women who were kidnapped by a rival tribe of cavemen. The game features a health system by which the player loses health over a period of time, apart from during boss battles. A two-player mode is available, in some versions both characters are capable of damaging each other.\n\nThe original arcade version and Amiga, Genesis, Zeebo MS-DOS ports have the distinction of allowing the player to select between different routes at the end of boss battles. Also, after defeating the final boss, the players can choose between three exits – each one leading to a slightly different ending sequence.\n\nThe game has been ported to various systems, some of which drop the name \"Caveman Ninja\", referring to the game simply as \"Joe & Mac.\"\n\nA Super NES version was developed and published in 1991 by Data East. That same year, another version was developed by Eden Entertainment Software and published by Takara for the Sega Genesis. In December 1992, a version for the NES was released. It was developed by Elite Systems and published by Data East. A Game Boy version, released in North America and the United Kingdom in April 1993, was developed by Motivetime and was also published by Data East.\nThe Genesis version is considered a close match to the arcade version. The Super NES version is a reworked game which features an overworld map used to choose the levels (unlike other versions all of them have to be played), which were longer, plus some bonus stages (either in the levels or out in the world map). Some of the weapons are missing and can no longer be charged up. The final boss is also different, and there are only two endings. The NES and Game Boy versions lack the option of choosing levels or endings. Both feature variants of the arcade boss.\n\nKyle Knight of AllGame rated the arcade version two and a half stars out of five and wrote that it \"is an adequate but uninspired action game. The graphics are easily Caveman Ninja's high point. Both background and character graphics are drawn well and finely detailed while the coloring is generally lush and vivid.\" However, Knight criticized the easy difficulty of the game because of its short levels: \"The levels are practically over as soon as they begin.\" Knight also called the game's music \"dull and uninspired,\" as well as \"boring and repetitive.\"\n\nSkyler Miller of AllGame rated the NES version two and a half stars out of five and criticized its \"unresponsive controls,\" writing that, \"Jumping and simultaneously throwing your weapon, an important move, is often hard to perform.\" Miller also wrote, \"Although the graphics are above average for the NES, they vary from level to level.\" \"GamePro\" wrote that the NES version was colorful but that the graphics \"are prehistoric,\" criticizing the \"flat backgrounds and sprites\". \"GamePro\" also criticized the music, described as \"rock-splitting clinks and clanks.\"\n\n\"Super Play\" magazine gave the SNES version of the game a 72 percent rating and praised its colorful graphics, but also wrote, \"The snag is that there isn't a lot to hold your interest. [...] the appeal starts to flag after a few minutes. The collision detection is annoying as well, tending to give baddies the benefit of the doubt in any clash of heads. I'm afraid this, coupled with the awkward controls, soon saw me adopting a 'couldn't care less' attitude towards the game.\"\n\nBrett Alan Weiss of AllGame gave the Sega Genesis version of \"Joe & Mac\" three and a half stars out of five. Weiss praised the game's graphics and sound effects, and wrote, \"This game features some of the best music ever on a 16-bit system.\" Weiss criticized the game's two-player mode, writing, \"With two players, you might help each other out of a jam from time to time, but you also slow each other down.\" \"Sega Visions\" praised the Genesis version's \"bright colors and bouncy sounds,\" but criticized its controls. \"GamePro\", reviewing the Genesis version, noted similarities to the SNES version and praised the \"entertaining\" two-player mode. However, the magazine concluded, \"It's fun, but this style of game is gradually going the way of the dinosaur.\"\n\nBritish television program \"Bad Influence!\" gave the SNES version 4 out of 5. Tony Dillon of \"CU Amiga\" gave the Amiga version a 78 percent rating and wrote that the game \"is a lot of fun to play. Not as complete or polished as \"Zool\", but still a great platform game. Controls are responsive, the graphics are good and the sampled sound is excellent, but I couldn't help feeling that in these times of epic Amiga games, this one is just a little too limited.\"\n\nHuw Melliar-Smith of \"Amiga Action\" gave the Amiga version a 79 percent rating and wrote that the animation of the game's enemies \"is pretty good. Not spectacular, but good nonetheless. As Joe & Mac are the focus of attention, perhaps a little more effort might have gone into their creation.\" Melliar-Smith praised the multiplayer option as being superior to single-player mode, and also complimented the sound effects, but called the music \"repetitive and not particularly creative.\" Melliar-Smith also criticized the unresponsive controls, writing, \"It is the gameplay that is most disappointing.\" Dave Paget of \"Amiga Format\" gave the Amiga version a 74 percent rating and praised its \"clear graphics and well-drawn backdrops,\" but wrote that the game \"is a bit shallow, your cavemen amble along and the levels are linear and allow no exploration.\"\n\nDavid Upchurch of \"The One Amiga\" gave the Amiga version a 22 percent rating and called the plot and gameplay \"uninspired.\" Upchurch also wrote, \"The colour palettes are garish, and it's often hard to pick out the sprites from the backgrounds. Worse still, everything's so sluggish - the so-called Ninjas amble around like they've been drugged and getting them to do anything quickly (pretty essential for a game like this) is near-impossible. Difficulty-wise, it's paradoxically very hard and very easy.\" Upchurch criticized the unresponsive controls, but praised the sound.\n\nStuart Campbell of \"Amiga Power\" also gave the Amiga version a 22 percent rating and criticized the game for using \"the kind of options screen that you'd have to be a professional semaphore operator to penetrate. I had to spend almost five minutes reading the manual just to work out how to select which of the two pointlessly-complicated joystick modes I wanted to use [...] and I still haven't quite got to grips with how to toggle the music and sound effects.\" Campbell also criticized the game for \"some of the cheap 'n' nastiest-looking graphics seen on the Amiga in recent memory.\" Campbell criticized the game's poor control system and its \"fairly short and tedious\" levels, and concluded that the game was \"a lump of crap.\"\n\n\"Total!\" gave the Game Boy version a 75 percent rating, praising the graphics, but criticizing the collision detection. The magazine also criticized the backgrounds, which caused the main character of Joe to blend into the environment, creating confusion regarding his location. \"Nintendo Power\" positively wrote about the Game Boy version, \"Good graphics and animation rival those of the NES and Super NES versions,\" but negatively wrote, \"Background blur while walking is severe, making it difficult to see approaching enemies.\"\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" compared the US release to the Japanese version, and wrote of the game's sexual content that \"All that's pictured during the initial display is a hut that quickly fades into the title screen, allowing players to commence the cartoony prehistoric action. Data East USA: 'We didn't want kids to see [the Japanese display] and think it was okay.'\"\n\nThe game was followed by various sequels. The Japanese version of the SNES game \"Congo's Caper\" was presented as a sequel called \"Tatakae Genshijin 2: Rookie no Bōken\" and featured a new protagonist. The title duo would later return in \"\", which added light role-playing aspects to the series. An arcade sequel titled \"Joe & Mac Returns\" eschewed the scrolling action of the original games in favor of gameplay similar to another Data East series, \"Tumblepop\".\n\nIn November 2009, Golgoth Studio announced plans to reboot the \"Joe & Mac\" series, following their completion of a \"Toki\" remake. No further information has been released as of 2018.\n\nJoe and Mac appear in a German Mario comic, titled \"Super Mario: Verloren in der Zeit\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2398151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2398151", "title": "Journeyman: Travels of a Writer", "text": "Journeyman: Travels of a Writer\n\nJourneyman: Travels of a Writer is a 2003 book by Timothy Findley. The book, compiled by Findley's partner William Whitehead, is a posthumous collection of journal entries, letters, poems, speeches and newspaper and magazine articles written by Findley.\n"}
{"id": "50006888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50006888", "title": "Ketevan Lomtatidze", "text": "Ketevan Lomtatidze\n\nKetevan Lomtatidze (Georgian: ქეთევან ლომთათიძე; 1911–2007) was a Georgian linguist (Caucasiologist), specialist in Kartvelian and Abkhaz studies.\nIn 1931, she graduated from the department of philology of the Tbilisi State University, specializing in Abkhaz and Abaza language. Some authors regard her as the greatest researcher of these two languages.\n\nShe was the first woman to acquire a Doctor of Science degree in Georgia (1945). From 1953 to 1963 and from 1975 to 1987 she worked as the Director of the Institute of Linguistics of the Academy of Sciences of the Georgian SSR.\n\nIn 1984 she was awarded the \"Dmitry Gulia State Prize of Abkhazia\".\n\nThroughout her academic career, she published around 400 works (including 8 books) in Georgian, Abkhaz, Russian, English and German language.\n\n"}
{"id": "11383236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11383236", "title": "Language Acquisition (journal)", "text": "Language Acquisition (journal)\n\nLanguage Acquisition: A Journal of Developmental Linguistics is an American peer-reviewed journal in psycholinguistics that has been published quarterly since 1990. It is mainly devoted to studies of language acquisition that are informed by, and relevant to, current research in generative linguistics. Its founding co-editors were Robert Berwick, Thomas Roeper, and Kenneth Wexler. From 2003 to 2011 it was co-edited by Diane Lillo-Martin and William Snyder (both from University of Connecticut). The current editor is Jeffrey Lidz from the University of Maryland. The journal, which is available online with subscription, was published by Lawrence Erlbaum Associates from 1990 until 2007, and is now published by Psychology Press, part of the Taylor & Francis Group.\n"}
{"id": "2373260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2373260", "title": "Madonna of the Stairs", "text": "Madonna of the Stairs\n\nThe Madonna of the Stairs (or Madonna of the Steps) is a relief sculpture by Michelangelo in the Casa Buonarroti, Florence. It was sculpted around 1491, when Michelangelo was about seventeen. This and the \"Battle of the Centaurs\" were Michelangelo's first two sculptures. The first reference to the \"Madonna of the Stairs\" as a work by Michelangelo was in the 1568 edition of Giorgio Vasari's \"Lives of the Most Excellent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects\".\n\nThe work is an obvious homage to stiacciato of Donatello, as Vasari also noted, both in technique and sizes plans with millimeter thickness variations, both in iconography, starting from the scale pattern with pronounced steps and handrails foreshortened, visible for example in the Feast of Herod in Lille, smashing spatially opening a path of dramatic vanishing.\n\nThe figure of the Madonna, sitting on a square stone, and in profile while looking away, occupies the entire height of the relief, from edge to edge, with a severity and monumentality reminiscent of the classic rods. Very original is the composition of the sacred group, at the same time blocked and dynamic, with the Virgin and upright and keep him away gaze, in a prophetic attitude, as she lifts her dress to feed or protect the child asleep, and generates a movement spiral thanks to the arrangement in opposite limb: Jesus has indeed let go of his arm behind his back and Maria comes to weave his feet, showing the right plant and breaking the stillness of the smooth surface of the bas-relief. The right hand of the Child turned out was later used more than once by the artist to symbolize the abandonment of the body in sleep or in death, as in the portrait of Lorenzo de 'Medici, Duke of Urbino or the Bandini Pietà and refers to ' Farnese Hercules (since by Michelangelo man is seen as Hercules).\n\nPronounced is the muscle of the Child and the taking of Mary, especially with large hands, thanks to the different treatment of the surfaces, make it appear vigorous simple, everyday gesture. Virtuoso is finally the fall of the drapery, especially on Cubic's seat, which follows form with great realism.\n\nOn the left, on the scale that gives its name to the survey, there are two putti just blanks in attitude dance or fight and another who, leaning on the handrail, tents, along with a fourth figure placed behind the Virgin, a drape. It is difficult to determine the significance of this background scene, perhaps a simple exercise in style or a tribute to dancing putti Donatello.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6955489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6955489", "title": "Marian College, Kuttikkanam", "text": "Marian College, Kuttikkanam\n\nMarian College is an educational institution in Kuttikkanam(Idukki), Kerala, India. It offers graduate and postgraduate courses. The Catholic Diocese of Kanjirapally established Marian College Kuttikkanam in 1995 to provide the student community with education in information technology, commerce, social work and management. \n\nMarian College Kuttikkanam is accredited with 'A' Grade by NAAC. The college is declared as the College with Potential for Excellence (CPE) by UGC.\n\nMarian college is affiliated to MG University Kottayam.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32089254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32089254", "title": "Military housing privatization", "text": "Military housing privatization\n\nThe military housing privatization initiative (MHPI) was established by the United States Congress in 1996 as tool to help the military improve the quality of life for its service members by improving the condition of their housing. The MHPI was designed and developed to attract private-sector financing, expertise and innovation to provide necessary housing faster and more efficiently than traditional military construction processes would allow. The Office of the U.S. Secretary of Defense has delegated to the military services the MHPI and they are authorized to enter into agreements with private developers selected in a competitive process to own, maintain and operate family housing via a fifty-year lease.\n\nMHPI addresses two significant problems concerning housing for military-service members and their families: (1) the poor condition of housing owned by the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD), and (2) a shortage of quality affordable private housing. Under the MHPI authorities, DOD works with the private sector to revitalize military family housing through a variety of financial tools-direct loans, loan guarantees, equity investments, conveyance or leasing of land and/or housing/and other facilities. Military service members receive a basic allowance where they can choose to live in private sector housing, or privatized housing.\n"}
{"id": "207322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207322", "title": "Moritz Schlick", "text": "Moritz Schlick\n\nFriedrich Albert Moritz Schlick (; ; April 14, 1882 – June 22, 1936) was a German philosopher, physicist, and the founding father of logical positivism and the Vienna Circle.\n\nSchlick was born in Berlin to a wealthy family, his father was Ernst Albert Schlick and his mother was Agnes Arndt. He studied physics at the University of Heidelberg, the University of Lausanne, and, ultimately, the University of Berlin under Max Planck. In 1904, he completed his dissertation essay, \"Über die Reflexion des Lichts in einer inhomogenen Schicht\" (\"On the Reflection of Light in a Non-Homogeneous Medium\"). After a year as Privatdozent at Göttingen, he turned to the study of Philosophy in Zurich. In 1907, he married Blanche Hardy In 1908, he published \"Lebensweisheit\" (\"The Wisdom of Life\"), a slim volume about eudaemonism, the theory that happiness results from the pursuit of personal fulfillment as opposed to passing pleasures. His habilitation essay, \"Das Wesen der Wahrheit nach der modernen Logik\" (\"The Nature of Truth According to Modern Logic\"), was published in 1910. Several essays about aesthetics followed, whereupon Schlick turned his attention to problems of epistemology, the philosophy of science, and more general questions about science. In this last category, Schlick distinguished himself by publishing a paper in 1915 about Einstein's special theory of relativity, a topic only ten years old. He also published \"Raum und Zeit in der gegenwärtigen Physik\" (\"Space and Time in Contemporary Physics\"), which extended his earlier results by applying Poincaré's geometric conventionalism to explain Einstein's adoption of a non-Euclidean geometry in the general theory of relativity.\n\nAfter early appointments at Rostock and Kiel, in 1922 Schlick assumed the chair of Naturphilosophie at the University of Vienna which had previously been held by Ludwig Boltzmann and Ernst Mach. Schlick displayed an unusual success in organizing talented individuals in the philosophical and scientific spheres. When Schlick arrived in Vienna, he was invited to lead a group of scientists and philosophers who met regularly (on Thursday evenings in the Chemistry Building) to discuss philosophical topics in the sciences. Early members included the mathematician Hans Hahn and, within a few years, they were joined by Rudolf Carnap, Herbert Feigl, Kurt Gödel, Otto Neurath, Friedrich Waismann and others. They initially called themselves the Ernst Mach Association, but they eventually became best known as the Vienna Circle. In the years 1925-1926, the Thursday night group discussed recent work in the foundations of mathematics by Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell, and Ludwig Wittgenstein. Wittgenstein's book, \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\", was a work that advanced, among other things, a logical theory of symbolism and a \"picture\" or \"model\" theory of language. Schlick and his group were impressed by the work, devoting considerable time to its study and, even when it was no longer the principal focus of their discussion, it was mentioned in discussion. Eventually Wittgenstein agreed to meet with Schlick and other Circle members to discuss the \"Tractatus\" and other ideas but he later found it necessary to restrict the visitors to sympathetic interlocutors. Through Schlick's influence, Wittgenstein was encouraged to consider a return to philosophy after some ten years away from the field. Schlick and Waismann's discussions with Wittgenstein continued until the latter felt that germinal ideas had been used without permission in an essay by Carnap, a charge of dubious merit. But he continued discussions in letters to Schlick after he no longer met with other Circle members.\n\nSchlick had worked on his \"Allgemeine Erkenntnislehre\" (\"General Theory of Knowledge\") between 1918 and 1925, and, though later developments in his philosophy were to make various contentions of his epistemology untenable, the \"General Theory\" is perhaps his greatest work in its acute reasoning against synthetic \"a priori\" knowledge. This critique of synthetic \"a priori\" knowledge argues that the only truths which are self-evident to reason are statements which are true as a matter of definition, such as the statements of formal logic and mathematics. The truth of all other statements must be evaluated with reference to empirical evidence. If a statement is proposed which is not a matter of definition, and not capable of being confirmed or falsified by evidence, that statement is \"metaphysical\", which is synonymous with \"meaningless\", or \"nonsense\". This is the principle upon which members of the Vienna Circle were most clearly in agreement — with each other, as well as with Wittgenstein.\n\nBetween 1926 and 1930, Schlick labored to finish \"Fragen der Ethik\" (\"Problems of Ethics\"'), in which he surprised some of his fellow Circlists by including ethics as a viable branch of philosophy. In his 1932-33 contribution to \"Erkenntnis\", \"Positivism and Realism\", Schlick offered one of the most illuminating definitions of positivism as every view \"which denies the possibility of metaphysics\" (Schlick [1932-1933], p. 260). Accordingly he defined metaphysics as the doctrine of “true being”, “thing in itself” or “transcendental being”, a doctrine which obviously \"presupposes that a non-true, lesser or apparent being stands opposed to it\" (Ibid). Therefore in this work he bases the positivism on a kind of epistemology which holds that the only true beings are givens or constituents of experience. Also during this time, the Vienna Circle published \"The Scientific View of the World: The Vienna Circle\" as a homage to Schlick. Its strong anti-metaphysical stance crystallized the viewpoint of the group.\n\nCarnap, in his book \"Logical Syntax of Language\", included a comment by Schlick on Wittgenstein 's \"Tractatus\".\n\nWith the rise of the Nazis in Germany and Austrofascism in Austria, many of the Vienna Circle's members left for the United States and the United Kingdom. Schlick, however, stayed on at the University of Vienna. When visited by Herbert Feigl in 1935, he expressed dismay at events in Germany. On June 22, 1936, Schlick was ascending the steps of the University for a class when he was confronted by a former student, Johann Nelböck, who killed Schlick with a pistol. The court declared Nelböck to be fully compos mentis, he confessed to the act, was detained without any resistance, but was unrepentant. The delinquent used the judicial proceedings as a chance to present himself and his ideology in the public. He claimed that Schlick's anti-metaphysical philosophy had \"interfered with his moral restraint\". In another version of the events, the murderer covered up all political causes and claimed that he was motivated by jealousy over his failed attachment to the female student Sylvia Borowicka, leading to a paranoid delusion about Schlick as his rival and persecutor. Nelböck was tried and sentenced, but the event became a distorted \"cause célèbre\" around which crystallized the growing nationalist and anti-Jewish sentiments in the city. (The fact that Schlick was not Jewish did not seem to matter to propagandists capitalizing on the crime.) After the annexation of Austria into Nazi Germany in 1938 the assassin was released on probation after serving two years of a 10-year sentence.\n\nSchlick's enduring contribution to the world of philosophy is as the fount of logical positivism. His humanity, good will, gentleness, and especially his encouragement have been documented by many of his peers. Herbert Feigl and Albert Blumberg, in their introduction to the \"General Theory of Knowledge\", wrote,\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46367939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46367939", "title": "New York City Human Rights Law", "text": "New York City Human Rights Law\n\nThe New York City Human Rights Law (NYCHRL) is a civil rights law that is embodied in Title 8 of the Administrative Code of the City of New York.\n\nIt prohibits discrimination in employment, housing, and public accommodations based on race, color, creed, age, national origin, alienage or citizenship status, gender (including gender identity and sexual harassment), sexual orientation, disability, marital status, and partnership status. It also provides protection against discrimination in employment based on unemployment status, arrest or conviction record, and status as a victim of domestic violence, stalking, and sex offenses. In housing, it provides other protections based on lawful occupation, family status, and any lawful source of income. It also prohibits retaliation, bias-related harassment, (including cyberbullying), bias-related profiling by law enforcement, and discrimination against interns.\n\nEight commissioners on the city’s Commission on Human Rights enforce New York City’s Human Rights Law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31782815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31782815", "title": "Nomen à clef", "text": "Nomen à clef\n\nIn romance languages, nomen à clef or nomen à clé (, French for \"name with a key\"), is a name describing a real person, behind a façade of fiction. \"Key\" in this context means a table one can use to swap out the names. \nIt is the nomenclature complement of the roman à clef.\n\n"}
{"id": "363978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=363978", "title": "Obelisk of Axum", "text": "Obelisk of Axum\n\nThe Obelisk of Axum () is a 4th-century AD, 24-metre-tall (79-feet) granite stele/obelisk, weighing 160 tonnes, in the city of Axum in Ethiopia. It is ornamented with two false doors at the base and features decorations resembling windows on all sides. The obelisk ends in a semi-circular top part, which used to be enclosed by metal frames.\n\nThe obelisk—properly termed a \"stele\" or, in the local Afro-Asiatic languages, \"hawelt/hawelti\" (as it is not topped by a pyramid) — is found along with many other stelae in the city of Axum in modern-day Ethiopia. The stelae were probably carved and erected during the 4th century A.D. by subjects of the Kingdom of Aksum, an ancient Ethiopian civilization. Erection of stelae in Axum was a very old practice (today it is still possible to see primitive roughly carved stelae near more elaborated \"obelisks\"), probably borrowed from the Kushitic kingdom of Meroe. Their function is supposed to be that of \"markers\" for underground burial chambers. The largest of the grave markers were for royal burial chambers and were decorated with multi-story false windows and false doors, while lesser nobility would have smaller, less decorated ones. While there are only a few large ones standing, there are hundreds of smaller ones in various \"stelae fields\". The last stele erected in Axum was probably the so-called King Ezana's Stele, in the 4th century A.D.\nKing Ezana (c.321 – c. 360), influenced by his childhood tutor Frumentius, introduced Christianity to Axum, precluding the pagan practice of erecting burial stelae (it seems that at the feet of each obelisk, together with the grave, there was also a sacrificial altar).\n\nOver the course of time, many of these stelae fell to the ground due to: structural collapse (as, probably, in the case of the Great Stele, measuring 33 m), possibly immediately after their erection; earthquakes (Axum is in a seismic zone); or the military incursions of the Imam Ahmad Gragn during the Ethiopian-Adal War from 1529 to 1543. In the 19th century, of the three major \"royal\" stelae, only King Ezana's Stele remained erect, shown in the painting \"Sight of Axum\" of Henry Salt (1780–1827).\n\nAt the end of 1935, following the Italian occupation, Italian soldiers found the Obelisk of Axum was collapsed and broken. It had fallen in the 4th century and had broken into five pieces. In 1937, it was taken as war booty and moved to Italy by the Fascist regime, which wanted to commemorate the occupation of Ethiopia and the birth of the ephemeral \"new Roman Empire\" (see Italian Empire). The stele was transported by truck along the tortuous route between Axum and the port of Massawa, taking five trips over a period of two months. It arrived via ship in Naples (on a ship called \"Adwa\"), on March 27, 1937. It was then transported to Rome, where it was reassembled and erected on Porta Capena square in front of the Ministry for Italian Africa (later the headquarters of the United Nations's Food and Agriculture Organization) and the Circus Maximus. It was officially unveiled on October 28, 1937 to commemorate the fifteenth anniversary of the March on Rome. The operation was coordinated by Ugo Monneret de Villard. \n\nA bronze statue of the Lion of Judah, symbol of the Ethiopian monarchy, was taken along with the obelisk and displayed in front of Termini railway station.\n\nIn a 1947 UN agreement, Italy agreed to return the stele to Ethiopia, along with the other looted piece, the Lion of Judah. While the latter was returned in 1967 following the 1961 visit of emperor Haile Selassie to Italy, little action was taken to return the stele for more than 50 years, partly as a consequence of the considerable technical difficulties related to its transportation.\n\nOne source also suggests that emperor Haile Sellassie, after hearing of these technical difficulties (and of the enormous costs necessary to overcome them), decided to grant the stele to the city of Rome, as a gift for the \"renewed friendship\" between Italy and Ethiopia. This assertion, however, remains very controversial and was not recognized by successive authorities. Colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam who overthrew the emperor in 1974, asked the Italian government to return the stele to Ethiopia. Another controversial arrangement, according to some sources, seems to be that Italy could keep the stele in exchange for the construction of a hospital in Addis Ababa (Saint Paul's Hospital) and for the cancellation of debts owed by Ethiopia. In any case, after the fall of the Mengistu regime, the new Ethiopian government asked for the return of the stele, finding a positive answer from the then president of the Italian republic Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, in April 1997.\nThe first steps in dismantling the structure were taken in November 2003, under the supervision of Giorgio Croci, Professor of Structural Problems of Monuments and Historical Buildings at Sapienza University of Rome. The intent was to ship the stele back to Ethiopia in March 2004, but the repatriation project encountered a series of obstacles: The runway at Axum Airport was considered too short for a cargo plane carrying even one of the thirds into which the stele had been cut; the roads and bridges between Addis Ababa and Axum were thought to be not up to the task of road transport; and access through the nearby Eritrean port of Massawa — which was how the stele originally left Africa — was impossible due to the strained state of relations between Eritrea and Ethiopia.\n\nAnother reason for the delay in returning the stele from Italy to Ethiopia in 2004 was because of Italy's claim of not having the money to pay for the transportation. An attempt to get help from the United States was unsuccessful, as Americans stated that their planes were tied up in the war in Iraq. Numerous attempts by Professor Richard Pankhurst, who spearheaded the campaign to return the stele, remained unsuccessful until an American-Ethiopian, Dr. Aberra Molla, threatened the Italian government with the option of raising the money on the Internet.\n\nThe runway at Axum airport was then upgraded specially to facilitate the return of the stele. The dismantled stele remained sitting in a warehouse near Rome's Leonardo Da Vinci International Airport, until 19 April 2005 when the middle piece was repatriated by use of an Antonov An-124, amidst much local celebration. It was the largest and heaviest piece of air freight ever carried. The second piece was returned on 22 April 2005, with the final piece returned on 25 April 2005. The operation cost Italy $7.7 million. The stele remained in storage while Ethiopia decided how to reconstruct it without disturbing other ancient treasures still in the area (especially King Ezana's Stele). By March 2007 the foundation had been poured for the re-erection of the stele near King Ezana's Stele, structurally consolidated in this occasion. Reassembly began in June 2008, with a team chosen by UNESCO and led by Giorgio Croci, and the monument was re-erected in its original home and unveiled on 4 September 2008.\n\nWhen it was reassembled in Rome in 1937 three steel bars were inserted per section. When the obelisk was hit by lightning during a violent thunderstorm over Rome on 27 May 2002 this caused \"considerable\" damage. In the new reconstruction the three sections are fixed together by a total of eight aramid fiber (Kevlar) bars: four between the first and second and four between the second and third sections. This arrangement guarantees structural resistance during earthquakes and avoids the use of steel, so as not to again make the stele a magnet for lightning and to avoid rust.\n\nSeveral other similar stelae/obelisks exist in Ethiopia and Eritrea, such as the Hawulti in Metera. Like the Obelisk of Axum, the other stelae have a rectangular base with a false door carved on one side.\n\n"}
{"id": "29071078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29071078", "title": "Ometepe (archaeological site)", "text": "Ometepe (archaeological site)\n\nOmetepe Island is an important archaeological site, located in the Lake Nicaragua in the Republic of Nicaragua, administratively belongs to the Rivas Department. Its name derives from the Nahuatl words ome (two) and tepetl (mountain), meaning two mountains, given that it is formed and practically the whole island is formed by two volcanoes: Concepción and Maderas.\n\nOmetepe has an area of 276 km². It is the largest volcanic island located within a lake. The population is estimated at 42,000. The island has two larger cities, Moyogalpa and Altagracia that also are the main access ports to the island. There are an enormous amount of prehispanic statues, petroglyphs and pottery found on the island, and the area is believed to be an important ceremonial center for the its ancient inhabitants.\n\nThere is evidence that the island was inhabited at least since 1500 BC. Apparently this population would be part of a migration movement originated in South America with final destination in Mexico. On the island found ceramic and large sculptures carved basalt rock have been found, that are exhibited today in the Park of Altagracia Church and the Managua National Museum. These sculptures are attributable to the same style as those found in the Zapatera Island by the Chorotega culture.\n\nSome petroglyphs were also found in the island made from 300 a. C.\n\nThe conquistadores found the country occupied by numerous towns dedicated to the practice of the arts and peaceful industries. Dr. Berendt, great explorer and scholar of Aboriginal people of Central America, in the light of philological results obtained by himself and American diplomat Ephraim George Squier (1849), and traditions preserved mainly from Oviedo, Torquemada and Herrera, believed that the chorotegan, Cholutecas, Dirianes and Orotinas were descendants of people that migrated from Cholula, Mexico. These people occupied the greater part of the country from the Gulf of Fonseca to Nicoya, its territorial continuity was interrupted in the vicinity of current Leon by the Marabios and again by an Aztec colony that occupied the narrowest part of the strip of land between the Pacific and the Nicaragua Lake and the lake islands. The King and the capital of this nation was named Nicarao (Conference read before the American geographical society, July 10, 1876, by Dr. C. H. Berendt). The former inhabitants of this region left abundant relics of their civilization in mounds, cemeteries, etc. (Bransford, J.F. 1881. Introduction, p. 4)\n\nThe first archaeological report on the Ometepe material came to light with the 1852 publication \"Nicaragua, its people and landscapes\" by American diplomat E. G. Squier, who explored the area in 1849.\n\nIn December, 1872, the Navy Department sent an expedition under the command of Commander E.P. Lull, USN, to Nicaragua, to complete the studies initiated in the spring of that year for an inter-oceanic canal. (For valuable information on the country, see the report published by the Navy Department, 1874 on studies for a canal through Nicaragua.) J.F Bransford, was a medical officer assigned to expeditions, with instructions to perform general scientific research on natural history, etc., of the country. He visited the Ometepe Island and while searching for antiquities, he managed by chance to see a ditch which had been recently excavated, in which were exposed funerary urns. This was an estate that belonged to don José Angel Luna, near Moyogalpa. (Bransford, J.F. 1881. Preliminary Note, p. 1)\n\nIn 1876, he was sent to Nicaragua in particular service related to the study, and was instructed to perform archaeological research in the Ometepe Island. He was in the country from January to mid-May, more than half the time exploring and digging in the island, having carried out the main portion of the work at the Luna Hacienda, Los Angeles and San Francisco. He was again in the island from February, 1877 and remained until the first of July. As before, most of the time was spent on the island, focusing in Santa Helena and Chilaite, north from Moyogalpa. Then some investigations were made in firm land near San Jorge, followed by a trip south to Nicoya in Costa Rica. (Bransford, J.F. 1881. Preliminary Note, p. 1)\n\nFor his part, Professor Carl Bovallius, arrived at Ometepe from Granada, on 1882-1883 New Year’s Eve and stayed in the Moyogalpa village, on the northwest tip of the island. From there he took several trips in different directions, and although his zoological research occupied a lot of his time, he had numerous opportunities to perform archaeological excavations. (Carl Bovallius. 1886, p. 9-10)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54702321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54702321", "title": "Oxfordshire Museums Council", "text": "Oxfordshire Museums Council\n\nThe Oxfordshire Museums Council (OMC) is an organisation representing museums in Oxfordshire, England.\n\nOMC was founded in 1983 and represents around 40 museums. It is a registered charity (no. 296734) that is formed of representatives from museums operated by the local authority and Oxford University, as well as independent and volunteer museums.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5921310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5921310", "title": "Phonetic symbols in Unicode", "text": "Phonetic symbols in Unicode\n\nUnicode supports several phonetic scripts and notations through the existing writing systems and the addition of extra blocks with phonetic characters. These phonetic extras are derived of an existing script, usually Latin, Greek or Cyrillic. In Unicode there is no \"IPA script\". Apart from IPA, extensions to the IPA and obsolete and nonstandard IPA symbols, these blocks also contain characters from the Uralic Phonetic Alphabet and the Americanist Phonetic Alphabet.\n\nThe International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) makes use of letters from other writing systems as most phonetic scripts do. IPA notably uses Latin, Greek and Cyrillic characters. Combining diacritics also adds meaning to the phonetic text. Finally, these phonetic alphabets make use of modifier letters, that are specially constructed for the phonetic meaning. A \"modifier letter\" is strictly intended not as an independent grapheme but as a modification of the preceding character resulting in a distinct grapheme, notably in the context of the International Phonetic Alphabet. For example, ʰ should not occur on its own but modifies the preceding or following symbol. Thus, is a single IPA symbol, distinct from . In practice, however, several of these \"modifier letters\" are also used as full graphemes, e.g. ʿ as transliterating Semitic ayin or Hawaiian okina, or ˚ transliterating Abkhaz ә.\n\nThe following tables indicates the Unicode code point sequences for phonemes as used in the International Phonetic Alphabet. A bold code point indicates that the Unicode chart provides an application note such as \"voiced retroflex lateral\" for . An entry in bold italics indicates the character name itself refers to a phoneme such as \n\nThe following figures depict the phonetic vowels and their Unicode / UCS code points. Vowels appearing in pairs in the figure to the right indicate rounded and unrounded variations respectively. Again, characters with Unicode names referring to phonemes are indicated by bold text. Those with explicit application notes are indicated by bold italic text. Those from borrowed unchanged from another script (Latin, Greek or Cyrillic) are indicated by italics.\n\n\nPhonetical scripts are encoded in six Unicode blocks.\n\nThe characters in the \"Spacing Modifier Letters\" block are intended as forming a unity with the preceding letter (which they \"modify\"). E.g. the character isn't intended simply as a superscript \"h\" (), but as the mark of aspiration placed after the letter being aspirated, as in \"aspirated voiceless bilabial plosive\". The block contains:\n\nThis block, together with Phonetic Extensions Supplement below, contains:\n\nIPA font support is increasing, and is now included in several fonts such as the Times New Roman versions that come with various recent computer operating systems. Diacritics are not always properly rendered, however. IPA fonts that are freely available online include Gentium, several from the SIL (such as Charis SIL, and Doulos SIL), DejaVu Sans, and TITUS Cyberbit, which are all freely available; as well as commercial typefaces such as Brill, available from Brill Publishers, and Lucida Sans Unicode and Arial Unicode MS, shipping with various Microsoft products. These all include several ranges of characters in addition to the IPA. Modern Web browsers generally do not need any configuration to display these symbols, provided that a font capable of doing so is available to the operating system.\nFurther Information: Unicode input#Selection from a screen\nMany systems provide a way to select Unicode characters visually. ISO/IEC 14755 refers to this as a \"screen-selection entry method\".\n\nMicrosoft Windows has provided a Unicode version of the Character Map program (find it by hitting then type codice_1 then hit ) since version NT 4.0 – appearing in the consumer edition since XP. This is limited to characters in the Basic Multilingual Plane (BMP). Characters are searchable by Unicode character name, and the table can be limited to a particular code block. More advanced third-party tools of the same type are also available (a notable freeware example is BabelMap).\n\nmacOS provides a \"character palette\" with much the same functionality, along with searching by related characters, glyph tables in a font, etc. It can be enabled in the input menu in the menu bar under System Preferences → International → Input Menu (or System Preferences → Language and Text → Input Sources) or can be viewed under Edit → Emoji & Symbols in many programs.\n\nEquivalent tools – such as gucharmap (GNOME) or kcharselect (KDE) – exist on most Linux desktop environments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21312140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21312140", "title": "Quantitative comparative linguistics", "text": "Quantitative comparative linguistics\n\nQuantitative comparative linguistics is the use of quantitative analysis as applied to comparative linguistics.\n\nStatistical methods have been used for the purpose of quantitative analysis in comparative linguistics for more than a century. During the 1950s, the Swadesh list emerged: a standardised set of lexical concepts found in most languages, as words or phrases, that allow two or more languages to be compared and contrasted empirically.\n\nProbably the first published quantitative historical linguistics study was by Sapir in 1916, while Kroeber and Chretien in 1937 investigated nine Indo-European (IE) languages using 74 morphological and phonological features (extended in 1939 by the inclusion of Hittite). Ross in 1950 carried out an investigation into the theoretical basis for such studies. Swadesh, using word lists, developed lexicostatistics and glottochronology in a series of papers published in the early 1950s but these methods were widely criticised though some of the criticisms were seen as unjustified by other scholars. Embleton published a book on \"Statistics in Historical Linguistics\" in 1986 which reviewed previous work and extended the glottochronological method. Dyen, Kruskal and Black carried out a study of the lexicostatistical method on a large IE database in 1992.\n\nDuring the 1990s, there was renewed interest in the topic, based on the application of methods of computational phylogenetics and cladistics. Such projects often involved collaboration by linguistic scholars, and colleagues with expertise in information science and/or biological anthropology. These projects often sought to arrive at an optimal phylogenetic tree (or network), to represent a hypothesis about the evolutionary ancestry and perhaps its language contacts. Pioneers in these methods included the founders of CPHL: computational phylogenetics in historical linguistics (CPHL project): Donald Ringe, Tandy Warnow, Luay Nakhleh and Steven N. Evans.\n\nIn the mid-1990s a group at Pennsylvania University computerised the comparative method and used a different IE database with 20 ancient languages. In the biological field several software programs were then developed which could have application to historical linguistics. In particular a group at the University of Auckland developed a method that gave controversially old dates for IE languages. A conference on \"Time-depth in Historical Linguistics\" was held in August 1999 at which many applications of quantitative methods were discussed. Subsequently many papers have been published on studies of various language groups as well as comparisons of the methods.\n\nGreater media attention was generated in 2003 after the publication by anthropologists Russell Gray and Quentin Atkinson of a short study on Indo-European languages in \"Nature\". Gray and Atkinson attempted to quantify, in a probabilistic sense, the age and relatedness of modern Indo-European languages and, sometimes, the preceding proto-languages.\n\nThe proceedings of an influential 2004 conference, \"Phylogenetic Methods and the Prehistory of Languages\" were published in 2006, edited by Peter Forster and Colin Renfrew.\n\nComputational phylogenetic analyses have been performed for:\n\nThe standard method for assessing language relationships has been the comparative method. However this has a number of limitations. Not all linguistic material is suitable as input and there are issues of the linguistic levels on which the method operates. The reconstructed languages are idealized and different scholars can produce different results. Language family trees are often used in conjunction with the method and \"borrowings\" must be excluded from the data, which is difficult when borrowing is within a family. It is often claimed that the method is limited in the time depth over which it can operate. The method is difficult to apply and there is no independent test. Thus alternative methods have been sought that have a formalised method, quantify the relationships and can be tested.\n\nA goal of comparative historical linguistics is to identify instances of genetic relatedness amongst languages. The steps in quantitative analysis are (i) to devise a procedure based on theoretical grounds, on a particular model or on past experience, etc. (ii) to verify the procedure by applying it to some data where there exists a large body of linguistic opinion for comparison (this may lead to a revision of the procedure of stage (i) or at the extreme of its total abandonment) (iii) to apply the procedure to data where linguistic opinions have not yet been produced, have not yet been firmly established or perhaps are even in conflict.\n\nApplying phylogenetic methods to languages is a multi-stage process: (a) the encoding stage - getting from real languages to some expression of the relationships between them in the form of numerical or state data, so that those data can then be used as input to phylogenetic methods (b) the representation stage - applying phylogenetic methods to extract from those numerical and/or state data a signal that is converted into some useful form of representation, usually two dimensional graphical ones such as trees or networks, which synthesise and \"collapse\" what are often highly complex multi dimensional relationships in the signal (c) the interpretation stage - assessing those tree and network representations to extract from them what they actually mean for real languages and their relationships through time.\n\nAn output of a quantitative historical linguistic analysis is normally a tree or a network diagram. This allows summary visualisation of the output data but is not the complete result. A tree is a connected acyclic graph, consisting of a set of vertices (also known as \"nodes\") and a set of edges (\"branches\") each of which connects a pair of vertices. An internal node represents a linguistic ancestor in a phylogenic tree or network. Each language is represented by a path, the paths showing the different states as it evolves. There is only one path between every pair of vertices. Unrooted trees plot the relationship between the input data without assumptions regarding their descent. A rooted tree explicitly identifies a common ancestor, often by specifying a direction of evolution or by including an \"outgroup\" that is known to be only distantly related to the set of languages being classified. Most trees are binary, that is a parent has two children. A tree can always be produced even though it is not always appropriate. A different sort of tree is that only based on language similarities / differences. In this case the internal nodes of the graph do not represent ancestors but are introduced to represent the conflict between the different splits (\"bipartitions\") in the data analysis. The \"phenetic distance\" is the sum of the weights (often represented as lengths) along the path between languages. Sometimes an additional assumption is made that these internal nodes do represent ancestors.\n\nWhen languages converge, usually with word adoption (\"borrowing\"), a network model is more appropriate. There will be additional edges to reflect the dual parentage of a language. These edges will be bidirectional if both languages borrow from one another. A tree is thus a simple network, however there are many other types of network. A phylogentic network is one where the taxa are represented by nodes and their evolutionary relationships are represented by branches. Another type is that based on splits, and is a combinatorial generalisation of the split tree. A given set of splits can have more than one representation thus internal nodes may not be ancestors and are only an \"implicit\" representation of evolutionary history as distinct from the \"explicit\" representation of phylogenetic networks. In a splits network the phrenetic distance is that of the shortest path between two languages. A further type is the reticular network which shows incompatibilities (due to for example to contact) as reticulations and its internal nodes do represent ancestors. A network may also be constructed by adding contact edges to a tree. The last main type is the consensus network formed from trees. These trees may be as a result of bootstrap analysis or samples from a posterior distribution.\n\nChange happens continually to languages, but not usually at a constant rate, with its cumulative effect producing splits into dialects, languages and language families. It is generally thought that morphology changes slowest and phonology the quickest. As change happens, less and less evidence of the original language remains. Finally there could be loss of any evidence of relatedness. Changes of one type may not affect other types, for example sound changes do not affect cognancy. Unlike biology, it cannot be assumed that languages all have a common origin and establishing relatedness is necessary. In modelling it is often assumed for simplicity that the characters change independently but this may not be the case. Besides borrowing, there can also be semantic shifts and polymorphism.\n\nAnalysis can be carried out on the \"characters\" of languages or on the \"distances\" of the languages. In the former case the input to a language classification generally takes the form of a data matrix where the rows correspond to the various languages being analysed and the columns correspond to different features or characters by which each language may be described. These features are of two types cognates or typological data. Characters can take one or more forms (homoplasy) and can be lexical, morphological or phonological. Cognates are morphemes (lexical or grammatical) or larger constructions. Typological characters can come from any part of the grammar or lexicon. If there are gaps in the data these have to be coded.\n\nIn addition to the original database of (unscreened) data, in many studies subsets are formed for particular purposes (screened data).\n\nIn lexicostatistics the features are the meanings of words, or rather semantic slots. Thus the matrix entries are a series of glosses. As originally devised by Swadesh the single most common word for a slot was to be chosen, which can be difficult and subjective because of semantic shift. Later methods may allow more than one meaning to be incorporated.\n\nSome methods allow constraints to be placed on language contact geography (isolation by distance) and on sub-group split times.\n\nSwadesh originally published a 200 word list but later refined it into a 100 word one. A commonly used IE database is that by Dyen, Kruskal and Black which contains data for 95 languages, though the original is known to contain a few errors. Besides the raw data it also contains cognacy judgements. This is available online. The database of Ringe, Warnow and Taylor has information on 24 IE languages, with 22 phonological characters, 15 morphological characters and 333 lexical characters. Gray and Atkinson used a database of 87 languages with 2449 lexical items, based on the Dyen set with the addition of three ancient languages. They incorporated the cognacy judgements of a number of scholars. Other databases have been drawn up for African, Australian and Andean language families, amongst others.\n\nCoding of the data may be in binary form or in multistate form. The former is often used but does result in a bias. It has been claimed that there is a constant scale factor between the two coding methods, and that allowance can be made for this. However, another study suggests that the topology may change \n\nThe word slots are chosen to be as culture- and borrowing- free as possible. The original Swadesh lists are most commonly used but many others have been devised for particular purposes. Often these are shorter than Swadesh's preferred 100 item list. Kessler has written a book on \"The Significance of Word Lists while McMahon and McMahon carried out studies on the effects of reconstructability and retentiveness. The effect of increasing the number of slots has been studied and a law of diminishing returns found, with about 80 being found satisfactory. However some studies have used less than half this number.\n\nGenerally each cognate set is represented as a different character but differences between words can also be measured as a distance measurement by sound changes. Distances may also be measured letter by letter.\n\nTraditionally these have been seen as more important than lexical ones and so some studies have put additional weighting on this type of character. Such features were included in the Ringe, Warnow and Taylor IE database for example. However other studies have omitted them.\n\nExamples of these features include glottalised constants, tone systems, accusative alignment in nouns, dual number, case number correspondence, object-verb order, and first person singular pronouns. These will be listed in the WALS database, though this is only sparsely populated for many languages yet.\n\nSome analysis methods incorporate a statistical model of language evolution and use the properties of the model to estimate the evolution history. Statistical models are also used for simulation of data for testing purposes. A stochastic process can be used to describe how a set of characters evolves within a language. The probability with which a character will change can depend on the branch but not all charters evolve together, nor is the rate identical on all branches. It is often assumed that each character evolves independently but this is not always the case. Within a model borrowing and parallel development (homoplasy) may also be modelled, as well as polymorphisms.\n\nChance resemblances produce a level of noise against which the required signal of relatedness has to be found. A study was carried out by Ringe into the effects of chance on the mass comparison method. This showed that chance resemblances were critical to the technique and that Greenberg's conclusions could not be justified, though the mathematical procedure used by Rimge was later criticised.\n\nWith small databases sampling errors can be important.\n\nIn some cases with a large database and exhaustive search of all possible trees or networks is not feasible because of running time limitations. Thus there is a chance that the optimum solution is not found by heuristic solution-space search methods.\n\nLoanwords can severely affect the topology of a tree so efforts are made to exclude borrowings. However, undetected ones sometimes still exist. McMahon and McMahon showed that around 5% borrowing can affect the topology while 10% has significant effects. In networks borrowing produces reticulations. Minett and Wang examined ways of detecting borrowing automatically.\n\nDating of language splits can be determined if it is known how the characters evolve along each branch of a tree. The simplest assumption is that all characters evolve at a single constant rate with time and that this is independent of the tree branch. This was the assumption made in glottochronology. However, studies soon showed that there was variation between languages, some probably due to the presence of unrecognised borrowing. A better approach is to allow rate variation, and the gamma distribution is usually used because of its mathematical convenience. Studies have also been carried out that show that the character replacement rate depends on the frequency of use. Widespread borrowing can bias divergence time estimates by making languages seem more similar and hence younger. However, this also makes the ancestor's branch length longer so that the root is unaffected.\n\nThis aspect is the most controversial part of quantitative comparative linguistics.\n\nThere is a need to understand how a language classification method works in order to determine its assumptions and limitations. It may only be valid under certain conditions or be suitable for small databases. The methods differ in their data requirements, their complexity and running time. The methods also differ in their optimisation criteria.\n\nThese two methods are similar but the maximum parsimony method's objective is to find the tree (or network) in which the minimum number of evolutionary changes occurs. In some implementations the characters can be given weights and then the objective is to minimise the total weighted sum of the changes. The analysis produces unrooted trees unless an outgroup is used or directed characters. Heuristics are used to find the best tree but optimisation is not guaranteed. The method is often implemented using the programs PAUP or TNT.\n\nMaximum compatibility also uses characters, with the objective of finding the tree on which the maximum number of characters evolve without homoplasy. Again the characters can be weighted and when this occurs the objective is to maximise the sum of the weights of compatible characters. It also produces unrooted trees unless additional information is incorporated. There are no readily available heuristics available that are accurate with large databases. This method has only been used by Ringe's group.\n\nIn these two methods there are often several trees found with the same score so the usual practice is to find a consensus tree via an algorithm. A majority consensus has bipartitions in more than half of the input trees while a greedy consensus adds bipartitions to the majority tree. The strict consensus tree is the least resolved and contains those splits that are in every tree.\n\nBootstrapping (a statistical resampling strategy) is used to provide branch support values. The technique randomly picks characters from the input data matrix and then the same analysis is used. The support value is the fraction of the runs with that bipartition in the observed tree. However, bootstrapping is very time consuming.\n\nBoth of these methods use explicit evolution models. The maximum likelihood method optimises the probability of producing the\nobserved data, while Bayesian analysis estimates the probability of each tree and so produces a probability distribution. A random walk is made through the \"model-tree space\". Both take an indeterminate time to run, and stopping may be arbitrary so a decision is a problem. However, both produce support information for each branch.\n\nThe assumptions of these methods are overt and are verifiable. The complexity of the model can be increased if required. The model parameters are estimated directly from the input data so assumptions about evolutionary rate are avoided.\n\nThis method produces an explicit phylogenic network having an underlying tree with additional contact edges. Characters can be borrowed but evolve without homoplasy. To produce such networks, a graph-theoretic algorithm has been used.\n\nThe input lexical data is coded in binary form, with one character for each state of the original multi-state character. The method allows homoplasy and constraints on split times. A likelihood-based analysis method is used, with evolution expressed as a rate matrix. Cognate gain and loss is modelled with a gamma distribution to allow rate variation and with rate smoothing. Because of the vast number of possible trees with many languages, Bayesian inference is used to search for the optimal tree. A Markov Chain Monte Carlo algorithm generates a sample of trees as an approximation to the posterior probability distribution. A summary of this distribution can be provided as a greedy consensus tree or network with support values. The method also provides date estimates.\n\nThe method is accurate when the original characters are binary, and evolve identically and independently of each other under a rates-across-sites model with gamma distributed rates; the dates are accurate when the rate of change is constant. Understanding the performance of the method when the original characters are multi-state is more complicated, since the binary encoding produces characters that are not independent, while the method assumes independence.\n\nThis method is an outgrowth of Gray and Atkinson's. Rather than having two parameters for a character, this method uses three. The birth rate, death rate of a cognate are specified and its borrowing rate. The birth rate is a Poisson random variable with a single birth of a cognate class but separate deaths of branches are allowed (Dollo parsimony). The method does not allow homoplasy but allows polymorphism and constraints. Its major problem is that it cannot handle missing data (this issue has since been resolved by Ryder and Nicholls. Statistical techniques are used to fit the model to the data. Prior information may be incorporated and an MCMC research is made of possible reconstructions. The method has been applied to Gray and Nichol's database and seems to give similar results.\n\nThese use a triangular matrix of pairwise language comparisons. The input character matrix is used to compute the distance matrix either using the Hamming distance or the Levenshtein distance. The former measures the proportion of matching characters while the latter allows costs of the various possible transforms to be included. These methods are fast compared with wholly character based ones. However, these methods do result in information loss.\n\nThe \"Unweighted Pairwise Group Method with Arithmetic-mean\" (UPGMA) is a clustering technique which operates by repeatedly joining the two languages that have the smallest distance between them. It operates accurately with clock-like evolution but otherwise it can be in error. This is the method used in Swadesh's original lexicostatistics.\n\nThis is a technique for dividing data into natural groups. The data could be characters but is more usually distance measures. The character counts or distances are used to generate the splits and to compute weights (branch lengths) for the splits. The weighted splits are then represented in a tree or network based on minimising the number of changes between each pair of taxa. There are fast algorithms for generating the collection of splits. The weights are determined from the taxon to taxon distances. Split decomposition is effective when the number of taxa is small or when the signal is not too complicated.\n\nThis method operates on distance data, computes a transformation of the input matrix and then computes the minimum distance of the pairs of languages. It operates correctly even if the languages do not evolve with a lexical clock. A weighted version of the method may also be used. The method produces an output tree. It is claimed to be the closest method to manual techniques for tree construction.\n\nIt uses a similar algorithm to neighbor joining. Unlike Split Decomposition it does not fuse nodes immediately but waits until a node has been paired a second time. The tree nodes are then replaced by two and the distance matrix reduced. It can handle large and complicated data sets. However, the output is a phenogram rather than a phylogram. This is the most popular network method.\n\nThis was an early network method that has been used for some language analysis. It was originally developed for genetic sequences with more than one possible origin. Network collapses the alternative trees into a single network. Where there are multiple histories a reticulation (a box shape) is drawn. It generates a list of characters incompatible with a tree.\n\nThis uses a declarative knowledge representation formalism and the methods of Answer Set Programming. One such solver is CMODELS which can be used for small problems but larger ones require heuristics. Preprocessing is used to determine the informative characters. CMODELS transforms them into a propositional theory that uses a SAT solver to compute the models of this theory.\n\nFitch and Kitch are maximum likelihood based programs in PHYLIP that allow a tree to be rearranged after each addition, unlike NJ. Kitch differs from Fitch in assuming a constant rate of change throughout the tree while Fitch allows for different rates down each branch.\n\nHolm introduced a method in 2000 to deal with some known problems of lexicostatistical analysis. These are the \"symplesiomorphy trap\", where shared archaisms are difficult to distinguish from shared innovations, and the \"proportionality \"trap\" when later changes can obscure early ones. Later he introduced a refined method, called SLD, to take account of the variable word distribution across languages. The method does not assume aconstant rate of change.\n\nA number of fast converging analysis methods have been developed for use with large databases (>200 languages). One of these is the Disk Covering Method (DCM). This has been combined with existing methods to give improved performance. A paper on the DCM-NJ+MP method is given by the same authors in \"The performance of Phylogenetic Methods on Trees of Bounded Diameter\", where it is compared with the NJ method.\n\nThese models compare the letters of words rather than their phonetics. Dunn \"et al.\" studied 125 typological characters across 16 Austronesian and 15 Papuan languages. They compared their results to an MP tree and one constructed by traditional analysis. Significant differences were found. Similarly Wichmann and Saunders used 96 characters to study 63 American languages.\n\nA method that has been suggested for initial inspection of a set of languages to see if they are related was mass comparison. However, this has been severely criticised and fell into disuse. Recently Kessler has resurrected a computerised version of the method but using rigorous hypothesis testing. The aim is to make use of similarities across more than two languages at a time. In another paper various criteria for comparing word lists are evaluated. It was found that the IE and Uralic families could be reconstructed but there was no evidence for a joint super-family.\n\nThis method uses stable lexical fields, such as stance verbs, to try to establish long-distance relationships. Account is taken of convergence and semantic shifts to search for ancient cognates. A model is outlined and the results of a pilot study are presented.\n\nThe Automated Similarity Judgment Program (ASJP) is similar to lexicostatistics, but the judgement of similarities is done by a computer program following a consistent set of rules. Trees are generated using standard phylogenetic methods. ASJP uses 7 vowel symbols and 34 consonant symbols. There are also various modifiers. Two words are judged similar if at least two consecutive consonants in the respective words are identical while vowels are also taken into account. The proportion of words with the same meaning judged to be similar for a pair of languages is the Lexical Similarity Percentage (LSP). The Phonological Similarity Percentage (PSP) is also calculated. PSP is then subtracted from the LSP yielding the Subtracted Similarity Percentage (SSP) and the ASJP distance is 100-SSP. Currently there are data on over 4,500 languages and dialects in the ASJP database from which a tree of the world's languages was generated.\n\nThis measures the orthographical distance between words to avoid the subjectivity of cognacy judgements. It determines the minimum number of operations needed to transform one word into another, normalised by the length of the longer word. A tree is constructed from the distance data by the UPGMA technique.\n\nHeggarty has proposed a means of providing a measure of the degrees of difference between cognates, rather than just yes/no answers. This is based on examining many (>30) features of the phonetics of the glosses in comparison with the protolanguage. This could require a large amount of work but Heggarty claims that only a representative sample of sounds is necessary. He also examined the rate of change of the phonetics and found a large rate variation, so that it was unsuitable for glottochronology. A similar evaluation of the phonetics had earlier been carried out by Grimes and Agard for Romance languages, but this used only six points of comparison.\n\nStandard mathematical techniques are available for measuring the similarity/difference of two trees. For consensus trees the Consistency Index (CI) is a measure of homoplasy. For one character it is the ratio of the minimimum conceivable number of steps on any one tree (= 1 for binary trees) divided by the number of reconstructed steps on the tree. The CI of a tree is the sum of the character CIs divided by the number of characters. It represents the proportion of patterns correctly assigned.\n\nThe Retention Index (RI) measures the amount of similarity in a character. It is the ratio (g - s) / (g - m) where g is the greatest number of steps of a character on any tree, m is the minimum number of steps on any tree, and s is the minimum steps on a particular tree. There is also a Rescaled CI which is the product of the CI and RI.\n\nFor binary trees the standard way of comparing their topology is to use the Robinson-Foulds metric. This distance is the average of the number of false positives and false negatives in terms of branch occurrence. R-F rates above 10% are considered poor matches. For other sorts of trees and for networks there is yet no standard method of comparison.\n\nLists of incompatible characters are produced by some tree producing methods. These can be extremely helpful in analysing the output. Where heuristic methods are used repeatability is an issue. However, standard mathematical techniques are used to overcome this problem.\n\nIn order to evaluate the methods a well understood family of languages is chosen, with a reliable dataset. This family is often the IE one but others have been used. After applying the methods to be compared to the database, the resulting trees are compared with the reference tree determined by traditional linguistic methods. The aim is to have no conflicts in topology, for example no missing sub-groups, and compatible dates. The families suggested for this analysis by Nichols and Warnow are Germanic, Romance, Slavic, Common Turkic, Chinese, and Mixe Zoque as well as older groups such as Oceanic and IE.\n\nAlthough the use of real languages does add realism and provides real problems, the above method of validation suffers from the fact that the true evolution of the languages is unknown. By generating a set of data from a simulated evolution correct tree is known. However it will be a simplified version of reality. Thus both evaluation techniques should be used.\n\nTo assess the robustness of a solution it is desirable to vary the input data and constraints, and observe the output. Each variable is changed slightly in turn. This analysis has been carried out in a number of cases and the methods found to be robust, for example by Atkinson and Gray.\n\nDuring the early 1990s, linguist Donald Ringe, with computer scientists Luay Nakhleh and Tandy Warnow, statistician Steven N. Evans and others, began collaborating on research in quantitative comparative linguistic projects. They later founded the CHPL project, the goals of which include: \"producing and maintaining real linguistic datasets, in particular of Indo-European languages\", \"formulating statistical models that capture the evolution of historical linguistic data\", \"designing simulation tools and accuracy measures for generating synthetic data for studying the performance of reconstruction methods\", and \"developing and implementing statistically-based as well as combinatorial methods for reconstructing language phylogenies, including phylogenetic networks\".\n\nA comparison of coding methods was carried out by Rexova \"et al.\" (2003). They created a reduced data set from the Dyen database but with the addition of Hittite. They produced a standard multistate matrix where the 141 character states corresponds to individual cognate classes, allowing polymorphism. They also joined some cognate classes, to reduce subjectivity and polymorphic states were not allowed. Lastly they produced a binary matrix where each class of words was treated as a separate character. The matrices were analysed by PAUP. It was found that using the binary matrix produced changes near the root of the tree.\n\nMcMahon and McMahon (2003) used three PHYLIP programs (NJ, Fitch and Kitch) on the DKB dataset. They found that the results produced were very similar. Bootstrapping was used to test the robustness of any part of the tree. Later they used subsets of the data to assess its retentiveness and reconstructability. The outputs showed topological differences which were attributed to borrowing. They then also used Network, Split Decomposition, Neighbor-net and Splitstree on several data sets. Significant differences were found between the latter two methods. Neighbor-net was considered optimal for discerning language contact.\n\nIn 2005, Nakhleh, Warnow, Ringe and Evans carried out a comparison of six analysis methods using an Indo-European database. The methods compared were UPGMA, NJ MP, MC, WMC and GA. The PAUP software package was used for UPGMA, NJ, and MC as well as computing the majority consensus trees. The RWT database was used but 40 characters were removed due to evidence of polymorphism. Then a screened database was produced excluding all characters that clearly exhibited parallel development, so eliminating 38 features. The trees were evaluated on the basis of the number of incompatible characters and on agreement with established sub-grouping results. They found that UPGMA was clearly worst but there was not a lot of difference between the other methods. The results depended on the data set used. It was found that weighting the characters was important, which requires linguistic judgement.\n\nSaunders (2005) compared NJ, MP, GA and Neighbor-Net on a combination of lexical and typological data. He recommended use of the GA method but Nichols and Warnow have some concerns about the study methodology.\n\nCysouw \"et al.\" (2006) compared Holm's original method with NJ, Fitch, MP and SD. They found Holm's method to be less accurate than the others.\n\nIn 2013, François Barbancon, Warnow, Evans, Ringe and Nakleh (2013) studied various tree reconstruction methods using simulated data. Their simulated data varied in the number of contact edges, the degree of homoplasy, the deviation from a lexical clock, and the deviation from the rates-across-sites assumption. It was found that the accuracy of the unweighted methods (MP, NJ, UPGMA, and GA) were consistent in all the conditions studied, with MP being the best. The accuracy of the two weighted methods (WMC and WMP) depended on the appropriateness of the weighting scheme. With low homoplasy the weighted methods generally produced the more accurate results but inappropriate weighting could make these worse than MP or GA under moderate or high homoplasy levels.\n\nChoice of an appropriate model is critical for the production of good phylogenetic analyses. Both underparameterised or overly restrictive models may produce aberrant behaviour when their underlying assumptions are violated, while overly complex or overparameterised models require long run times and their parameters may be overfit. The most common method of model selection is the \"Likelihood Ratio Test\" which produces an estimate of the fit between the model and the data, but as an alternative the Akaike Information Criterion or the Bayesian Information Criterion can be used. Model selection computer programs are available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31289674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31289674", "title": "Ras Baalbek I", "text": "Ras Baalbek I\n\nRas Baalbek I () is a rock shelter east of Ras Baalbek in the northern Beqaa Valley in Lebanon. It sits north of the Wadi Teniyet er-Râs valley at a height of . It was first discovered by Lorraine Copeland and Peter Wescombe in 1965-1966. It was later excavated by Jacques Besançon in 1970. Retouched blades along with a pressure-flaked arrowhead and a burin were found dated to the Neolithic period.\n"}
{"id": "38785237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38785237", "title": "Read More About It", "text": "Read More About It\n\nRead More About It was a public service announcement campaign created as a joint venture between CBS and the Library of Congress that ran from 1980 to 1999 on CBS. The campaign, which usually aired one at the end of a special primetime program, was famous for its opening title sequence, which originally showed a live action TV set which zoomed in using stop motion that used pages on the side flipping into either the celebrity of the program aired or just on-screen graphics, which was remade in 1990 using computer animation that used CGI for the pages on the side of the TV flipping to revolve to the celebrity/graphics. The spiel in each PSA talks about learning more about what happened in the program, the books the Library of Congress suggests, and that they can be found in their local library or bookstore. It ended with either the celebrity of the program or an announcer saying, \"Visit them. They'll be happy to help you \"Read More About It\".\" \n\nOriginally the theme music was composed by Keith Mansfield, but in 1983, \"Moments of Courage\" by composer Craig Palmer became the theme for the PSAs. Along with a remade intro came a new theme for the campaign which lasted for the 1990s. With the arrival of the internet came new resources to learn about the subject of the special or movie aired on CBS and other networks. Because of this, \"Read More About It\" was succeeded at the turn of the 21st century by the \"CBS Cares\" campaign, which like its predecessor usually airs at the end of either a movie (example: \"The Karen Carpenter Story\") (until 2010) or a special program (example: The Grammy Awards or the Super Bowl) and focuses primarily on resources, online and print, to learn about the event or subject featured in the preceding program or community involvement.\n\n"}
{"id": "9503910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9503910", "title": "Rheinische Dokumenta", "text": "Rheinische Dokumenta\n\nThe Rheinische Dokumenta () is a phonetic writing system developed in the early 1980s by a working group of academics, linguists, local language experts, and local language speakers of the Rhineland. \nIt was presented to the public in 1986 by the Landschaftsverband Rheinland.\n\nIt offers a uniform common notation of almost every phoneme spoken in the Lower Rhine area, the western and central Rhineland, the Berg region, the Westerwald, Eifel, and Hunsrück mountain regions, plus the areas surrounding the Nahe and Moselle Rivers.\nIt encompasses the dialects of cities such as\nAachen,\nBingen,\nBonn,\nCologne,\nDuisburg,\nDüsseldorf,\nEschweiler and Eschweiler,\nEssen,\nEupen,\nGennep,\nGummersbach,\nHeinsberg,\nKarlsruhe,\nKaiserslautern,\nKerkrade and Herzogenrath,\nCleves,\nKoblenz,\nLimburg,\nLudwigshafen,\nLuxembourg,\nMaastricht,\nMainz,\nMalmedy,\nMönchengladbach,\nNijmegen,\nOberhausen,\nPrüm,\nRaeren,\nSaarbrücken,\nSiegen,\nTrier,\nVenlo,\nSt. Vith,\nWiesbaden,\nWipperfürth,\nWuppertal,\nXanten,\nand many more.\n\nRheinische Dokumenta was designed to be easily readable for dialect speakers educated in German writing, but there are some differences that make it quite distinct from the usual ways of writing the dialects: There is no doubling of consonants to mark short vowels, and there are extra diacritical marks. The German letters and are spelled and , German is spelled when it indicates a pronunciation, German is spelled . These spellings appear in other Germanic languages as well, but Rhinelanders are generally not accustomed to them.\n\nThe Rheinische Dokumenta uses the letters of today's ISO basic Latin alphabet, without , , , , , though it has the digraphs , , , trigraph . In addition, the three common German Umlauted letters are used: , , , and ten more letters, digraphs, and a trigraph, each having diacritical marks:\n\nEach letter, digraph, or trigraph is strictly representing one phone. Most letters represent the usual sounds for which they are used in the German alphabet or, slightly less so, in the Dutch alphabet or that of the Luxembourgish language. Several letters are ambiguous in these languages, such as voiced consonants which lose their voice when appearing at the end of a word. These ambiguities are avoided writing Rheinische Dokumenta; despite the fact that word stems may change their printed appearance, when declined or conjugated, always the most phonetically correct letters, digraphs, or trigraphs are being used.\n\nAs opposed to Dutch, the combination of followed by does not occur in the languages for which Rheinische Dokumenta was made. Thus, since is not otherwise used in Rheinische Dokumenta, both and are unambiguous, especially the underlined letter combinations, and the ones having an arch below.\n\nOnly the digraph has some ambiguity. An may occur at the end of a syllable, but only a few dialects allow a syllable initial (g) after a syllable final . While at syllable joints is frequent in German, most languages that can use Rheinische Dokumenta have or instead in almost all instances. The authors of Rheinische Dokumenta suggest using the single letter eng instead of the digraph when possible.\n\nThough not defined in the original specification, upper case letters can be used. While some authors do not use them at all, others start sentences with capitals or capitalise names, and few use capital initial letters on each substantive and noun, as standard German writing does.\n\nStress and the tonal accents are usually ignored when writing in Rheinische Dokumenta. There are diacritics to indicate them, but since they are seen to considerably hamper readability, make prints ugly, and are hardly necessary to facilitate understanding, they are seldom used. Some dialects do not have tonal accent anyway. For the other ones, there are only a very few word pairs or triplets having identical unaccented Rheinische Dokumenta spellings but different tonal or stress accents.\n\nAlso, other prosody, such as the \"melody\" of sentence, which carries semantic information in many Rheinisch languages, is not preserved in Rheinische Dokumenta writing.\n\nVowels come in two variants, short and long. That many dialects feature three distinct vowel lengths is ignored, as doing so does not create any ambiguities and makes reading easier. Short vowels are represented by single letters, long vowels are represented by the same letters doubled to indicate lengthening.\n\nRheinische Dokumenta can write 25 monophthongs.\n\nThere are 14 short vowels in the languages that the script was designed for, 13 of which are representable in Rheinische Dokumenta:\n\nThe \"e̩\" is , a schwa. There is no long version of \"e̩\". Although a schwa usually cannot carry word accent or stress, in some dialects there are exceptions. Words having only schwas do have their stress on schwas, and they can receive the main stress within a sentence as well. The Colognian word (in Rheinische Dokumenta writing) is an example.\n\nThere is another schwa. It does not have a corresponding grapheme in Rheinische Dokumenta. It could be noted in IPA as an unstressed short , in some dialects and positions also as an unstressed short . Some publications call it a \"vocalic r\". It is almost always followed by a glottal stop. Glottal stops are not noted in Rheinische Dokumenta, even though they are phonemes occasionally having minimal pairs and a length attribute. Since this schwa almost always corresponds to the digraph \"er\" ending a word or a separable syllable prefix of Standard German orthography, most users of Rheinische Dokumenta positionally print \"er\", or \"e̩r\", respectively, for increased readability in an attempt of courtesy towards their readers who read German more fluently than Rheinische Dokumenta. From the standpoint of phonological writing, this is incorrect.\n\nThere are 12 long vowels. For each short vowel with the exception of the schwa \"e̩\", there is a corresponding long vowel:\nIn Rheinische Dokumenta, Diphthongs are simply denoted as a sequence of the two monophthongs heard and spoken jointly. For instance, the English word \"boy\" would be spelled: \"bǫi\" in Rheinische Dokumenta. There are occasions, when two monophthongs need to be written together without forming a diphthong; that means they are pronounced separately with either a glottal stop or an intervocalic joiner consonant \"j\" in between. There is no written distinction between these cases, although it is not forbidden to write the character \"j\" for clarity. The number of diphthongs existing in a dialect is far less than each possible combination of two vowels, thus there are not very many ambiguities when taking syllable structure into account.\n\nAssimilation and coarticulation are predominant in most of the languages written using Rheinische Dokumenta, thus diphthong articulation may deviate somewhat from the articulation of the isolated monophthongs. Also, depending on languages, the lengths of their diphthongs may vary considerably between the extremes of as short as a typical short monophthong to longer than the sum of two long monophthongs. Varying lengths of diphthongs are not noted in Rheinische Dokumenta, which at least does not create ambiguities within a dialect.\n\nThere are no triphthongs, although diphthongs can be followed by schwas in some languages. If, for instance, Rheinische Dokumenta was used in writing Westphalian, triphthongs would be written in a manner analogous to the diphthongs, using three adjacent letters of vocals.\n\nSince most dialects follow the German, and Lower Franconian, rule of final-obstruent devoicing, voiced consonants cannot, or hardly ever, appear at the end of a word or sentence. This is one of the major differences between Rheinische Dokumenta and Standard German writing, since Standard German orthography tries to keep word stems unaltered, even if pronunciation varies with suffixes, endings, or phonological rules. If there is assimilation or other sandhi across word boundaries which yields a consonant voiced at a word end, some authors write them as contractions or join the words with a dash \"-\" to avoid having final voiced consonants.\n\nThough some dialects vary the duration of nasal consonants considerably, they are not doubled to indicate extended length when written, while vocals are. Though this never creates ambiguities within a language, comparison of languages is less supported. A good argument against doubling is that often nasal durations depend on speaker, style of speech, and prosody rather than being a characteristic of a word or a dialect, although that is not always so.\n\nThe letter eng (codice_1) is recommended rather than the codice_2 digraph when technically feasible. This recommendation is not always followed in an attempt to create prints closer resembling Standard German or Dutch. Though the phoneme cannot appear at the beginning of a syllable, upper case glyphs exist for all caps and small caps print.\n\nSome dialects vary the duration of liquids. With the exception of Ripuarian dialects, this is hardly a characteristic of words, but prosodic. It is not noted when writing Rheinische Dokumenta.\n\nThere is no distinction between the different phones represented by codice_3, and codice_4. They are nearly allophones; most often a specific dialect uses one, but not the other phone of a pair.\n\nBoth codice_5, and codice_6, are rarely used since these sounds occur in few dialects only.\n\nThe letter codice_7 is recommended to be used as a replacement of codice_8, when codice_8 is technically not available. This resembles the use of codice_7 in Dutch writing.\n\nThe variations codice_11, and codice_12, are used for title case, while codice_13, and codice_14, are used for all caps and small caps.\n\nFew West- and Central Ripuarian languages, most notably Colognian, have the non-allophones and Both are written codice_15 in Rheinische Dokumenta. The associated phones are to a large extent positionally distinguishable and clearly articulated differently. Nevertheless they are acoustically hard to distinguish, in part due to coarticulation, at times even for natives. So the designers of Rheinische Dokumenta choose to consider their differentiation unnecessary or marginal.\n\nRheinische Dokumenta has several diacritical marks, some of which have their typographical peculiarities.\n\nUmlauts can be seen as their counterparts in German, or Latin script, typography.\n\nThe \"central hook below\", which is being used to denote openness of the vowels ą̈, ǫ, ǫ̈. respectively, could be confused with the ogonek. In fact, it is different. While the ogonek is to be placed somewhat off the optical center of the glyph it goes with, the Rheinische Dokumenta hook explicitly goes to its center. Thus it gives another impression and does not resemble the ogonek. Most Rheinische Dokumenta prints choose it to be slightly more angular, longer, and thus appear bolder than ogoneks usually are.\n\nThe \"center dot below\" may not always be available. Using codice_7 as a replacement for codice_8 is recommended in such cases, resembling Dutch writing. There are no such replacements or recommendations for the letters codice_18, and codice_5, respectively, which are comparatively much less used.\n\nWhen the \"horizontal bar below\" is not available, using the glyph codice_20 as a replacement for codice_21, when possible, is recommended in such cases.\n\nThe phoneme denoted by codice_1 in print, alternately spelt codice_2, never appears at the beginning of a syllable, word, or sentence. Yet its upper case version could be used in all caps or small caps type.\n\nThe two variations of codice_15, and the three variations of codice_25, when written in title case, usually have only their 1st character uppercased, when used in all caps or small caps, however, each letter is converted to upper case.\n\nRheinische Dokumenta cannot currently be fully written in Unicode but proposals are underway to have missing pieces added.\n\nRheinische Dokumenta is part of the Latin character set of Unicode, and thus part of its Basic Multilingual Plane (Unicode). It is to a large extent covered by single code points. While unaccented characters do that anyway, even some of the characters having diacritical marks nevertheless occupy only one character position in a text stream in their normalized form.\n\n"}
{"id": "3571058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3571058", "title": "Richard Bushman", "text": "Richard Bushman\n\nRichard Lyman Bushman (born 20 June 1931) is an American historian and Gouverneur Morris Professor of History emeritus at Columbia University. Bushman taught at Brigham Young University, Harvard University, Boston University, and the University of Delaware before joining the history faculty at Columbia. Bushman is the author of \"Rough Stone Rolling\", an important biography of Joseph Smith, and he serves as one of three general editors of the Joseph Smith Papers. Bushman has been called \"one of the most important scholars of American religious history\" of the late 20th century, and in 2012 a $3 million donation to the University of Virginia established the Richard Lyman Bushman Chair of Mormon Studies in his honor.\n\nRichard L. Bushman was born on 20 June 1931, in Salt Lake City, Utah. His father, Ted Bushman (1902–1980), was a fashion illustrator, advertiser, and department store executive, and his mother, Dorothy Bushman (\"née\" Lyman; 1908–1995), was a secretary and homemaker. Bushman's family relocated to Portland, Oregon when he was a small child.\n\nAfter graduating from high school in 1949, Bushman spent two years as an LDS missionary in the northeastern United States. After completing his missionary service, he matriculated at Harvard University, graduating in 1955 with an A.B. \"magna cum laude\" in history. Bushman married fellow historian Claudia Lauper Bushman in August 1955 and the couple raised six children. Bushman continued at Harvard as a graduate student, earning A.M. and Ph.D. degrees in the History of American Civilization, where he studied with distinguished early American historian Bernard Bailyn. While still a graduate student he was awarded the Sheldon Fellowship to work on his dissertation in London. \n\nBushman first taught at Brigham Young University from 1960 to 1968 but two of those years he spent out on a doctoral fellowship to study history and psychology at Brown University. In 1967, he won the Bancroft Prize for his published dissertation, \"From Puritan to Yankee: Character and the Social Order in Connecticut, 1690-1765\". Bushman was awarded a year-long fellowship in 1969 at Harvard's Charles Warren Center. At Harvard he was recruited to teach by Boston University. In 1977, Bushman transferred from Boston University to the University of Delaware to work with material culture at the Winterthur Museum. In an interview with Jed Woodworth, a historian, Bushman's \"major work on refinement and gentility dated from those years, which included a year-long fellowship at the Smithsonian Institution.\" In 1989, Bushman was asked to teach American Colonial history at Columbia University. During his time at Columbia he completed year-long fellowships at the Davis Center at Princeton, the National Humanities Center, and the Huntington Library. It was at the Huntington Library in 1997 that Bushman started his biography of Joseph Smith entitled \"Rough Stone Rolling\". Bushman decided to retire from Columbia in 2001 to work full-time on the Joseph Smith biography. Bushman was recognized by Columbia University and become the Gouverneur Morris Professor of History in 1992. From 2008 to 2011, Bushman served as the first Howard W. Hunter Chair of Mormon Studies at Claremont Graduate University and held a Huntington Library fellowship. In 2012, the University of Virginia established the Richard Lyman Bushman Chair of Mormon studies in the Department of Religious Studies. The chair was funded by a $3 million endowment by anonymous donors.\n\nBushman's scholarship includes studies of early American social, cultural, and political history, American religious history, and the history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). In 1968, Bushman's \"From Puritan to Yankee: Character and Social Order in Connecticut, 1690-1765\" won the Bancroft Prize, an award given by the trustees of Columbia University for the year's best book on American history. Bushman has also received the Phi Alpha Theta prize, and Evans Biography Awards, administered by the Mountain West Center for Regional Studies at Utah State University. He published \"Joseph Smith and the Beginnings of Mormonism\", which was awarded best biography from the Mormon History Association in 1985. Bushman has held Guggenheim, Huntington, National Humanities Center, and National Endowment for the Humanities fellowships; and served as president of the Mormon History Association (1985–1986). Bushman was honored at the January 2011 annual meeting of the American Historical Association (MHA) where a breakout session entitled \"A Retrospective on the Scholarship of Richard Bushman\" was heavily attended.\n\nBushman's work, \"Rough Stone Rolling\" focuses heavily on new Mormon history. \"Rough Stone Rolling\" sold over 100,000 copies and gathered many awards including the Evans Biography Award and the Mormon History Association's annual 2006 Best Book award. In an article by Larry Gordon, LA Times writer, the initial response to \"Rough Stone Rolling\" has \"garnered many positive reviews, although some critics said it uncomfortably straddled reverence and logic.\"\n\nBushman is a member of the LDS Church. He interrupted his undergraduate studies at Harvard to serve as a missionary. See \"My Faith\" in Bushman, \"Believing History: Latter-day Saint Essays\" (New York: Columbia University Press, 2004), 20-29. In the essay, Bushman notes how he went on his LDS mission as an agnostic but after three months could say \"with conviction that I knew the Book of Mormon was right.\" He served a religious mission in New England and Atlantic Canada, and held various positions within the LDS Church, including Seminary teacher, bishop, stake president, and stake patriarch. On his decision to study the religion he is affiliated with Bushman replied, \"Would you say that the only people who can do black studies are not blacks, or that to do women's studies you have to be a non-woman? You get all sorts of people who have deep personal commitments to a subject they teach, and that has its advantages.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1533010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533010", "title": "Rule of avoidance", "text": "Rule of avoidance\n\nThe rule of avoidance was a rule employed in the Sui Dynasty in China for the appointment of officials. A system similar to this was adopted by Emperor Akbar of the Mughal Empire to prevent corruption and favoritism. It is also an entirely different principle in United States constitutional law, and a cultural norm in some cultures that promotes exogamy.\n\nThe rule of avoidance employed during the Sui Dynasty, and continued by subsequent Confucian governments, prohibited local officials from serving in their places of origin, so that family and friends would not influence them. Terms of service were for only three or four years, and parents and sons over fifteen could not accompany officials. Each prefecture sent delegates to an annual court assembly. This practice would continue through to the end of the Qing Dynasty.\n\nIn the time of Emperor Akbar of the Mughal Empire (in the area of what is now India, Pakistan and Afghanistan), a system similar to this was put into place to ensure smooth running of government and to prevent corruption. Government officials were not allowed to serve in one jurisdiction for long so that they did not become too involved in local affairs and become stronger than the Emperor himself. After a period of time, employees of the Emperor were transferred and jurisdiction of service was thus rotated regularly. The implementation of this system in the Empire by Akbar helped in preventing corruption and favoritism. This method was discarded and forgotten by the later Emperors.\n\nThe rule of avoidance employed by the United States Supreme Court is a principle, settled in \"Ashwander v. TVA\" (297 US 288, 346-347 (1936)), that where a controversy may be settled on a platform other than one involving constitutional adjudication, the court should avoid the constitutional question.\n\nThis principle is also used in Irish law: see Carmody v Minister for Justice.\n"}
{"id": "30440430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30440430", "title": "Saint Calminius Reliquary", "text": "Saint Calminius Reliquary\n\nThe Saint Calminius Reliquary (French – \"châsse de saint Calmin\") is the 12th-century chasse-form reliquary which was the main object in the treasury of Mozac Abbey. It contains the bones of Saint Calminius and his wife Saint Namadie.\n\nThe structure is of wood and measures 81 × 24 cm x 45 cm. Fourteen copper plaques have been attached, which are enameled using the \"champlevé\" technique (gaps are carved in the metal, into which molten enamel is poured before firing). The box is in the shape of a church without a transept or choir. It is decorated with Limoges champlevé enamel, depicting scenes from the life of the saint and his wife, in particular the foundation of the three institutions and his funeral.\n\nIt was permanently exhibited on the south arm of the transept of the abbey church. It was hidden and saved in 1789 during the French Revolution by a villager and municipal councillor Jean Ozenne (1756–1832). It is now housed in the Musée Dobrée.\n\n"}
{"id": "36763090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36763090", "title": "Semiotics: The Proceedings of the Semiotic Society of America", "text": "Semiotics: The Proceedings of the Semiotic Society of America\n\nSemiotics: Yearbook of the Semiotic Society of America is an\nannual series that publishes a selection of the peer-reviewed papers presented at the society’s annual conference. The content and thematic focus of each volume varies based on the program of the annual meeting. Notable contributors include Marcel Danesi, John Deely, Stephanie Walsh Matthews, Augusto Ponzio, and Thomas Sebeok.\n\nThe Semiotic Society of America is an interdisciplinary professional association that supports the study of signs and sign-systems. In addition to this series the society also publishes \"The American Journal of Semiotics\". All volumes of both publications are available online from the Philosophy Documentation Center.\n"}
{"id": "3105326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3105326", "title": "Senecan tragedy", "text": "Senecan tragedy\n\nSenecan tragedy refers to a set of ancient Roman tragedies. Ten of these plays exist, of which most likely eight were written by the Stoic philosopher and politician Lucius Annaeus Seneca. The group includes \"Hercules Furens\", \"Medea\", \"Troades\", \"Phaedra\", \"Agamemnon\", \"Oedipus\", \"Phoenissae\", \"Thyestes\", \"Hercules Oetaeus\", and \"Octavia\". \"Hercules Oetaeus\" is generally considered not to have been written by Seneca, and \"Octavia\" is certainly not. In the mid-16th century, Italian humanists rediscovered these works, making them models for the revival of tragedy on the Renaissance stage. The two great, but very different, dramatic traditions of the age — French neoclassical tragedy and Elizabethan tragedy — both drew inspiration from Seneca. Usually, the Senecan tragedy focuses heavily on supernatural elements.\n\nAlthough many of the Senecan tragedies adapt the same Greek myths as tragedies by Sophocles, Aeschylus, and Euripides, scholars tend not to view Seneca's works as direct adaptations of the Attic works, as Seneca's approach to the myths differs significantly from the Greek poets and often contains themes familiar from his philosophical writings. It is possible that Seneca's tragic style was more directly influenced by Augustan literature.\n\nFrench neoclassical dramatic tradition, which reached its highest expression in the 17th-century tragedies of Pierre Corneille and Jean Racine, drew on Seneca for form and grandeur of style. These neoclassicists adopted Seneca's innovation of the confidant (usually a servant), his substitution of speech for action, and his moral hairsplitting.\n\nThe Elizabethan dramatists found Seneca's themes of bloodthirsty revenge more congenial to English taste than they did his form. The first English tragedy, \"Gorboduc\" (1561), by Thomas Sackville and Thomas Norton, is a chain of slaughter and revenge written in direct imitation of Seneca. (As it happens, \"Gorboduc\" does follow the form as well as the subject matter of Senecan tragedy: but only a very few other English plays—e.g. \"The Misfortunes of Arthur\"—followed its lead in this.) Senecan influence is also evident in Thomas Kyd's \"The Spanish Tragedy\", and in Shakespeare's \"Titus Andronicus\" and \"Hamlet\". All three share a revenge theme, a corpse-strewn climax, and The Spanish Tragedy and Hamlet also have ghosts among the cast; all of these elements can be traced back to the Senecan model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "182783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182783", "title": "Stratigraphy", "text": "Stratigraphy\n\nStratigraphy is a branch of geology concerned with the study of rock layers (strata) and layering (stratification). It is primarily used in the study of sedimentary and layered volcanic rocks.\nStratigraphy has two related subfields: lithostratigraphy (lithologic stratigraphy) and biostratigraphy (biologic stratigraphy).\n\nCatholic priest Nicholas Steno established the theoretical basis for stratigraphy when he introduced the law of superposition, the principle of original horizontality and the principle of lateral continuity in a 1669 work on the fossilization of organic remains in layers of sediment.\n\nThe first practical large-scale application of stratigraphy was by William Smith in the 1790s and early 19th century. Known as the \"Father of English geology\", Smith recognized the significance of strata or rock layering and the importance of fossil markers for correlating strata; he created the first geologic map of England. Other influential applications of stratigraphy in the early 19th century were by Georges Cuvier and Alexandre Brongniart, who studied the geology of the region around Paris.\n\nVariation in rock units, most obviously displayed as visible layering, is due to physical contrasts in rock type (lithology). This variation can occur vertically as layering (bedding), or laterally, and reflects changes in environments of deposition (known as facies change). These variations provide a lithostratigraphy or lithologic stratigraphy of the rock unit. Key concepts in stratigraphy involve understanding how certain geometric relationships between rock layers arise and what these geometries imply about their original depositional environment. The basic concept in stratigraphy, called the law of superposition, states: in an undeformed stratigraphic sequence, the oldest strata occur at the base of the sequence.\n\nChemostratigraphy studies the changes in the relative proportions of trace elements and isotopes within and between lithologic units. Carbon and oxygen isotope ratios vary with time, and researchers can use those to map subtle changes that occurred in the paleoenvironment. This has led to the specialized field of isotopic stratigraphy.\n\nCyclostratigraphy documents the often cyclic changes in the relative proportions of minerals (particularly carbonates), grain size, thickness of sediment layers (varves) and fossil diversity with time, related to seasonal or longer term changes in palaeoclimates.\n\nBiostratigraphy or paleontologic stratigraphy is based on fossil evidence in the rock layers. Strata from widespread locations containing the same fossil fauna and flora are said to be correlatable in time. Biologic stratigraphy was based on William Smith's principle of faunal succession, which predated, and was one of the first and most powerful lines of evidence for, biological evolution. It provides strong evidence for the formation (speciation) and extinction of species. The geologic time scale was developed during the 19th century, based on the evidence of biologic stratigraphy and faunal succession. This timescale remained a relative scale until the development of radiometric dating, which gave it and the stratigraphy it was based on an absolute time framework, leading to the development of chronostratigraphy.\n\nOne important development is the Vail curve, which attempts to define a global historical sea-level curve according to inferences from worldwide stratigraphic patterns. Stratigraphy is also commonly used to delineate the nature and extent of hydrocarbon-bearing reservoir rocks, seals, and traps of petroleum geology.\n\nChronostratigraphy is the branch of stratigraphy that places an absolute age, rather than a relative age on rock strata. The branch is concerned with deriving geochronological data for rock units, both directly and inferentially, so that a sequence of time-relative events that created the rocks formation can be derived. The ultimate aim of chronostratigraphy is to place dates on the sequence of deposition of all rocks within a geological region, and then to every region, and by extension to provide an entire geologic record of the Earth.\n\nA gap or missing strata in the geological record of an area is called a stratigraphic hiatus. This may be the result of a halt in the deposition of sediment. Alternatively, the gap may be due to removal by erosion, in which case it may be called a stratigraphic vacuity. It is called a \"hiatus\" because deposition was \"on hold\" for a period of time. A physical gap may represent both a period of non-deposition and a period of erosion. A geologic fault may cause the appearance of a hiatus.\n\nMagnetostratigraphy is a chronostratigraphic technique used to date sedimentary and volcanic sequences. The method works by collecting oriented samples at measured intervals throughout a section. The samples are analyzed to determine their detrital remanent magnetism (DRM), that is, the polarity of Earth's magnetic field at the time a stratum was deposited. For sedimentary rocks this is possible because, as they fall through the water column, very fine-grained magnetic minerals (< 17 μm) behave like tiny compasses, orienting themselves with Earth's magnetic field. Upon burial, that orientation is preserved. For volcanic rocks, magnetic minerals, which form in the melt, orient themselves with the ambient magnetic field, and are fixed in place upon crystallization of the lava.\n\nOriented paleomagnetic core samples are collected in the field; mudstones, siltstones, and very fine-grained sandstones are the preferred lithologies because the magnetic grains are finer and more likely to orient with the ambient field during deposition. If the ancient magnetic field were oriented similar to today's field (North Magnetic Pole near the North Rotational Pole), the strata would retain a normal polarity. If the data indicate that the North Magnetic Pole were near the South Rotational Pole, the strata would exhibit reversed polarity.\n\nResults of the individual samples are analyzed by removing the natural remanent magnetization (NRM) to reveal the DRM. Following statistical analysis, the results are used to generate a local magnetostratigraphic column that can then be compared against the Global Magnetic Polarity Time Scale.\n\nThis technique is used to date sequences that generally lack fossils or interbedded igneous rocks. The continuous nature of the sampling means that it is also a powerful technique for the estimation of sediment-accumulation rates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39053175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39053175", "title": "The Eric Morecambe and Ernie Wise Show", "text": "The Eric Morecambe and Ernie Wise Show\n\nThe Eric Morecambe and Ernie Wise Show was a comedy variety show, transmitted on BBC Radio 2 in four series from 1975 until 1978. It starred Eric Morecambe and Ernie Wise. It was written by Eddie Braben and produced by John Browell.\n\n"}
{"id": "4502013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4502013", "title": "Uroscopy", "text": "Uroscopy\n\nUroscopy is the historic medical practice of visually examining a patient's urine for pus, blood, or other symptoms of disease. It dates back to ancient Egypt, Babylon, and India. It was particularly emphasized in Byzantine medicine.\n\nBy modern medical standards, uroscopy is considered to be a very limited means of obtaining evidence for the correct diagnosis of a patient's condition. In addition, many of the assumptions made by ancient physicians regarding uroscopy have proved to be quite incorrect and unscientific. However, visual examination of a patient's urine may provide preliminary evidence for a diagnosis, but is generally limited to conditions that affect the urinary system such as infection turbidity or blood infection or haemorrhage.\n\nA uroscopy flask is a piece of glass that is circular at the bottom, while there is a thin neck at the top, and on top of that neck there is an opening for urine. In order for a doctor to examine a patients urine one would have to urinate into a uroscopy flask. A uroscopy flask is a glass bottle that must be transparent. If there is any color to the uroscopy flask, diagnosis could be wrong. In the process of uroscopy, color is very crucial to find diseases. If the uroscopy flask has a tint of color, the doctor may not be able effectively diagnose the patient. The glass must also have an even thickness throughout the flask. If the top is very thin glass and the bottom is thick glass, then the impurities in the top may look different from the top and bottom. While in all actuality they could be the very same impurities. The impurities in urine have varying shapes, uneven glass will corrupt the diagnosis.\n\nThe uroscopy wheel is a diagram that linked the color of urine to a particular disease. It usually has twenty different uroscopy flasks with urine of different colors aligned around the border of the circle. Each flask has a line that connects it to a summary of a particular disease. This allowed doctors to have a quick reference guide to twenty different types of urine.\n\nThe temperature at which the urine is examined is a very important factor to consider in the process of uroscopy. When a patient urinates, the urine will be warm, so it is necessary for it to stay warm for proper evaluation. The external temperature should be the same as the internal temperature. When the temperature of urine goes down the bubbles in it will change. Some of them will disappear, but some will remain. With the temperature decrease particles and impurities will be more difficult to evaluate. They will move toward the middle of the flask, then sink to the bottom. They will all mix, making it more difficult to see the impurities.\n\nAnother problem with urine cooling is that it would become thicker. The longer that it had to cool down the more likely it was that the crystals in the it would bond together, causing it to thicken. This could lead to a false diagnosis, that is why doctors usually inspected the urine quickly.\n\nRichard Bright in the 19th century A.D. invented a technique that allowed doctors to examine a patients urine effectively after the temperature had dropped. The process involved heating water, then inserting the uroscopy flask containing cooled urine. This would heat the urine causing the crystals that formed during loss of temperature to break down. As a result, the urine will become thin again. This process is very effective, but a doctor should “also be careful not to shake them much before you inspect them for you will move the particles and destroy the bubbles and dilute the deposits and confuse the situation,” (The Late Greco-Roman and Byzantine Contribution to the Evolution of Laboratory Examinations of Bodily Excrement. Part1: Urine, Sperm, Menses and Stools, Pavlos C. Goudas).\n\nSince identifying the color of the urine is essential for a proper diagnosis, the lighting is crucial. This is a very complicated step in the uroscopy test. The doctor must not visually examine the urine in an overly lit location, because it will make the urine seem too bright. He can not examine the urine in a poorly lit location, because he will not be able to properly see the urine. So, he must examine the urine in both conditions. This is done to offset the effects of not enough light and too much light. After he examines in both conditions the doctor must use his best judgment, to make a diagnosis.\n\nDisease in which the pancreas does not function properly. Victims of this disease will have high glucose blood sugar. Victims may suffer from: cardiovascular disease (doubled risk), chronic kidney disease (it is the main cause for dialysis in developed world adults), retinal damage which can lead to blindness and is the most significant cause of adult blindness in the non-elderly in the developed world, nerve damage, erectile dysfunction, to gangrene with risk of amputation of toes, feet, and even legs.\n\nDoctors would test by tasting the urine. A sweet taste meant the patient had diabetes.\n\nYellowish discoloration of the whites of the eyes, skin, and mucous membranes caused by deposition of bilirubine in these tissues. It occurs as a symptom of various diseases, such as hepatitis, that affect the processing of bile. Also called icterus. \nDoctors would test by using their vision. If the urine had a brownish tint then the patient would most likely have jaundice.\n\nThe kidneys are supposed to filter excesses (especially urea) from the blood and excrete them, along with water, as urine. When they are not performing this task the patient is suffering from kidney disease. The medical field that studies the kidneys and diseases affecting the kidney is called nephrology, from the Ancient Greek name for kidney.\nDoctors would test urine using a visual examination. If the urine was red and/or foamy the patient was suffering from kidney disease.\n\nWhen a patient develops an uncontrolled, abnormal, circumscribed growth of cells in the urinary tract.\n\nDoctors would test urine by using a visual examination. If the urine had blood in it the patient was suffering from tumors in the urinary tract.\n\nUroscopy was important to the Roman and Byzantine eras, because it allowed doctors to diagnose patients without technology. This was an era in which there was no microscope, stethoscope, or even thermometers. All that was needed was a uroscopy wheel, uroscopy flask, and an experienced doctor to be able to give a diagnosis. It was a very simple procedure that a doctor could determine a patients problem by simply tasting and/or looking at their urine.\n\nUroscopy was also necessary, because the Hippocratic Oath did not allow doctors to perform any type of surgery. It stated “I will not cut for stone, even for patients in whom the disease is manifest . . .” (Hippocratic Oath). Doctors needed a different way to find out the problems with their patients. That is when the uroscopy test became involved. It followed the Hippocratic Oath and was a very effective test for that particular time period.\n\nUromancy is a form of divination whose origins begun with \"uroscopy\". It is performed by reading the bubbles in urine that form when urinating in a pot. In uromancy, it is said that the examination of urine does not only give indications of a person's health, but also foretells the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6872117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6872117", "title": "World Englishes", "text": "World Englishes\n\nWorld Englishes is a term for emerging localized or indigenized varieties of English, especially varieties that have developed in territories influenced by the United Kingdom or the United States. The study of World Englishes consists of identifying varieties of English used in diverse sociolinguistic contexts globally and analyzing how sociolinguistic histories, multicultural backgrounds and contexts of function influence the use of English in different regions of the world.\n\nThe issue of World Englishes was first raised in 1978 to examine concepts of regional Englishes globally. Pragmatic factors such as appropriateness, comprehensibility and interpretability justified the use of English as an international and intra-national language. In 1988, at a Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) conference in Honolulu, Hawaii, the International Committee of the Study of World Englishes (ICWE) was formed. In 1992, the ICWE formally launched the International Association for World Englishes (IAWE) at a conference of \"World Englishes Today\", at the University of Illinois, USA. There is now an academic journal devoted to the study of this topic, titled \"World Englishes\".\n\nCurrently, there are approximately 75 territories where English is spoken either as a first language (L1) or as an unofficial or institutionalized second language (L2) in fields such as government, law and education. It is difficult to establish the total number of Englishes in the world, as new varieties of English are constantly being developed and discovered.\n\nThe notions of World English and World Englishes are far from similar, although the terms are often mistakenly used interchangeably. \"World English\" refers to the English language as a lingua franca used in business, trade, diplomacy and other spheres of global activity, while \"World Englishes\" refers to the different varieties of English and English-based creoles developed in different regions of the world. Alternatively, the term \"Global Englishes\" has been used by scholars in the field to emphasise the more recent spread of English due to globalization, which has resulted in increased usage of English as a lingua franca.\n\nEnglish is a West Germanic language that originated from the Anglo-Frisian dialects brought by Germanic invaders into Britain. Initially, Old English was a diverse group of dialects, reflecting the varied origins of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms of England. Eventually, one of these dialects, Late West Saxon, came to dominate.\n\nThe original Old English language was then influenced by two further waves of invasion: the first by speakers of the Scandinavian branch of the Germanic language family, who conquered and colonized parts of Britain in the 8th and 9th centuries; the second by the Normans in the 11th century, who spoke Old Norman and ultimately developed a Norman variety called Anglo-Norman. For two centuries after the Norman Conquest, French became the language of everyday life among the upper classes in England. Although the language of the masses remained English, the bilingual character of England in this period was thus formed.\n\nDuring the Middle English period, France and England experienced a process of separation. This period of conflicting interests and feelings of resentment was later termed the Hundred Years' War. By the beginning of the 14th century, English had regained universal use and become the principal tongue of all England, but not without having undergone significant change.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, patriotic feelings regarding English brought about the recognition of English as the national language of England. The language was advocated as acceptable for learned and literary use. With the Great Vowel Shift, the language in this period matured to a standard and differed significantly from the Middle English period, becoming recognizably \"modern\".\n\nBy the 18th century, three main forces were driving the direction of the English language: (1) to reduce the language to rule and effect a standard of correct usage; (2) to refine the language by removing supposed defects and introducing certain improvements; and (3) to fix English permanently in the desired form. This desire for system and regularity in the language contrasted with the individualism and spirit of independence characterized by the previous age.\n\nBy the 19th century, the expansion of the British Empire, as well as global trade, had led to the spread of English around the world. The rising importance of some of England's larger colonies and former colonies, such as the rapidly developing United States, enhanced the value of the English varieties spoken in these regions, encouraging the belief, among the local populations, that their distinct varieties of English should be granted equal standing with the standard of Great Britain.\n\nThe first diaspora involved relatively large-scale migrations of mother-tongue English speakers from England, Scotland and Ireland predominantly to North America and the Caribbean, Australia, South Africa and New Zealand. Over time, their own English dialects developed into modern American, Canadian, West Indian, South African, Australian, and New Zealand Englishes. In contrast to the English of Great Britain, the varieties spoken in modern North America and Caribbean, South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand have been modified in response to the changed and changing sociolinguistic contexts of the migrants, for example being in contact with indigenous Native American, Khoisan and Bantu, Aboriginal or Maori populations in the colonies.\n\nThe second diaspora was the result of the colonization of Asia and Africa, which led to the development of 'New Englishes', the second-language varieties of English. In colonial Africa, the history of English is distinct between West and East Africa. English in West Africa began with trade. particularly the slave trade. English soon gained official status in what are today Gambia, Sierra Leone, Ghana, Nigeria and Cameroon, and some of the pidgin and creoles which developed from English contact, including Krio (Sierra Leone) and Cameroon Pidgin, have large numbers of speakers now.\n\nAs for East Africa, extensive British settlements were established in what are now Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe, where English became a crucial language of the government, education and the law. From the early 1960s, the six countries achieved independence in succession; but English remained the official language and had large numbers of second language speakers in Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Malawi (along with Chewa).\n\nEnglish was formally introduced to the sub-continent of South Asia (India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bhutan) during the second half of the eighteenth century. In India, English was given status through the implementation of Macaulay 'Minute' of 1835, which proposed the introduction of an English educational system in India. Over time, the process of 'Indianisation' led to the development of a distinctive national character of English in the Indian sub-continent.\n\nBritish influence in South-East Asia and the South Pacific began in the late eighteenth century, involving primarily the territories now known as Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong. Papua New Guinea, also a British protectorate, exemplified the English-based pidgin - Tok Pisin.\n\nThe Americans came late in South-East Asia but their influence spread like wildfire as their reforms on education in the Philippines progressed in their less than half a century colonization of the islands. English has been taught since the American period and is one of the official languages of the Philippines. Ever since English became the official language, a localized variety gradually emerged - Philippine English. Lately, linguist Wilkinson Daniel Wong Gonzales argued that this variety has in itself more varieties, suggesting that we move towards Philippine Englishes paradigm to progress further in Schneider's dynamic model after gathering evidences of such happening.\n\nNowadays, English is also learnt in other countries in neighbouring areas, most notably in Taiwan, Japan and Korea, with the latter two having begun to consider the possibility of making English their official second language.\n\nThe spread of English around the world is often discussed in terms of three distinct groups of users, where English is used respectively as:\n\n\n The most influential model of the spread of English is Braj Kachru's model of World Englishes. In this model the diffusion of English is captured in terms of three Concentric Circles of the language: The Inner Circle, the Outer Circle, and the Expanding Circle.\n\nThe Inner Circle refers to English as it originally took shape and was spread across the world in the first diaspora. In this transplantation of English, speakers from England carried the language to Australia, New Zealand and North America. The Inner Circle thus represents the traditional historical and sociolinguistic bases of English in regions where it is now used as a primary language: the United Kingdom, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, anglophone Canada and South Africa, and some of the Caribbean territories. English is the native language or mother tongue of most people in these countries. The total number of English speakers in the inner circle is as high as 380 million, of whom some 120 million are outside the United States.\n\nThe Outer Circle of English was produced by the second diaspora of English, which spread the language through imperial expansion by Great Britain in Asia and Africa. In these regions, English is not the native tongue, but serves as a useful lingua franca between ethnic and language groups. Higher education, the legislature and judiciary, national commerce and so on may all be carried out predominantly in English. This circle includes India, Nigeria, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Malaysia, Tanzania, Kenya, non-Anglophone South Africa, the Philippines (colonized by the US) and others. The total number of English speakers in the outer circle is estimated to range from 150 million to 300 million. Singapore, while in the Outer Circle, may be drifting into the Inner Circle as English becomes more often used as a home language (see Languages of Singapore), much as Ireland did earlier. Countries where most people speak an English-based creole and retain standard English for official purposes, such as Jamaica and Papua New Guinea, are also in the Outer Circle.\n\nFinally, the Expanding Circle encompasses countries where English plays no historical or governmental role, but where it is nevertheless widely used as a medium of international communication. This includes much of the rest of the world's population not categorized above, including territories such as China, Russia, Japan, non-Anglophone Europe (especially the Netherlands and Nordic countries), South Korea, Egypt and Indonesia. The total in this expanding circle is the most difficult to estimate, especially because English may be employed for specific, limited purposes, usually in a business context. The estimates of these users range from 100 million to one billion.\n\nThe inner circle (UK, US etc.) is 'norm-providing'; that means that English language norms are developed in these countries. The outer circle (mainly New Commonwealth countries) is 'norm-developing'. The expanding circle (which includes much of the rest of the world) is 'norm-dependent', because it relies on the standards set by native speakers in the inner circle.\n\nEdgar Werner Schneider tries to avoid a purely geographical and historical approach evident in the 'circles' models and incorporates sociolinguistic concepts pertaining to acts of identity.\nHe outlines five characteristic stages in the spread of English:\n\nPhase 1 - Foundation: This is the initial stage of the introduction of English to a new territory over an extended period of time. Two linguistic processes are operative at this stage: (a) language contact between English and indigenous languages; (b) contact between different dialects of English of the settlers which eventually results in a new stable dialect (see koiné). At this stage, bilingualism is marginal. A few members of the local populace may play an important role as interpreters, translators and guides. Borrowings are limited to lexical items; with local place names and terms for local fauna and flora being adopted by the English.\n\nPhase 2 - Exonormative stabilization: At this stage, the settler communities tend to stabilize politically under British rule. English increases in prominence and though the colloquial English is a colonial koiné, the speakers look to England for their formal norms. Local vocabulary continues to be adopted. Bilingualism increases amongst the indigenous population through education and increased contacts with English settlers. Knowledge of English becomes an asset, and a new indigenous elite develops.\n\nPhase 3 - Nativisation: According to Schneider, this is the stage at which a transition occurs as the English settler population starts to accept a new identity based on present and local realities, rather than sole allegiance to their 'mother country'. By this time, the indigenous strand has also stabilized an L2 system that is a synthesis of substrate effects, interlanguage processes and features adopted from the settlers' koiné English. Neologisms stabilize as English is made to adapt to local sociopolitical and cultural practices.\n\nPhase 4 - Endonormative stabilization: This stage is characterized by the gradual acceptance of local norms, supported by a new locally rooted linguistic self-confidence. By this time political events have made it clear that the settler and indigenous strands are inextricably bound in a sense of nationhood independent of Britain. Acceptance of local English(es) expresses this new identity. National dictionaries are enthusiastically supported, at least for new lexis (and not always for localized grammar). Literary creativity in local English begins to flourish.\n\nPhase 5 - Differentiation: At this stage there is a change in the dynamics of identity as the young nation sees itself as less defined by its differences from the former colonial power as a composite of subgroups defined on regional, social and ethnic lines. Coupled with the simple effects of time in effecting language change (with the aid of social differentiation) the new English koiné starts to show greater differentiation.\n\nThe oldest map of the spread of English is Strevens's world map of English. His world map, even predating that of Kachru's three circles, showed that since American English became a separate variety from British English, all subsequent Englishes have had affinities with either one or the other.\n\nMcArthur's \"wheel model\" has an idealized central variety called \"World Standard English,\" which is best represented by \"written international English.\" The next circle is made of regional standards or standards that are emerging. Finally, the outer layer consists of localized varieties which may have similarities with the regional standards or emerging standards.\n\nAlthough the model is neat, it raises several problems. Firstly, the three different types of English — ENL, ESL and EFL, are conflated in the second circle. Secondly, the multitude of Englishes in Europe are also missing in this layer. Finally, the outside layer includes pidgins, creoles and L2 Englishes. Most scholars would argue that English pidgins and creoles do not belong to one family: rather they have overlapping multiple memberships.\n\nManfred Görlach's and McArthur's models are reasonably similar. Both exclude English varieties in Europe. As Görlach does not include EFLs at all, his model is more consistent, though less comprehensive. Outside the circle are mixed varieties (pidgins, creoles and mixed languages involving English), which are better categorized as having partial membership.\n\nIn Modiano's model of English, the center consists of users of English as an International Language, with a core set of features which are comprehensible to the majority of native and competent non-native speakers of English. The second circle consists of features which may become internationally common or may fall into obscurity. Finally, the outer area consists of five groups (American English, British English, other major varieties, local varieties, foreign varieties) each with features peculiar to their own speech community and which are unlikely to be understood by most members of the other four groups.\n\nThe World Englishes paradigm is not static, and neither are rapidly changing realities of language use worldwide. The use of English in the Outer and Expanding Circle societies (refer to Kachru's Three Circles of English) continues its rapid spread, while at the same time new patterns of language contact and variety differentiation emerge. The different varieties range from English in the Inner circle societies such as the United States, Canada, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand, to the Outer circle post-colonial societies of Asia and Africa.\nThe World Englishes initiative, in recognizing and describing the New Englishes of the Caribbean, Africa and Asia, has been partly motivated by a consideration of the local linguistic factors and partly by a consideration of the wider cultural and political contexts of language acquisition and use. This, in turn, has involved the creative rewriting of discourses towards a recognition of pluralism and multiple possibilities for scholarship. The notion of varieties in this context is similarly dynamic, as new contexts, new realities, new discourses, and new varieties continue to emerge.\n\nThe terms \"language\" and \"dialect\" are not easily defined concepts. It is often suggested that languages are autonomous, while dialects are heteronomous. It is also said that dialects, in contrast with languages, are mutually intelligible, though this is not always the case. Dialects are characteristically spoken, do not have a codified form and are used only in certain domains.\nIn order to avoid the difficult dialect-language distinction, linguists tend to prefer a more neutral term, \"variety\", which covers both concepts and is not clouded by popular usage. This term is generally used when discussing World Englishes.\n\nTwo scenarios have been advanced about English's future status as the major world language: it will ultimately fragment into a large number of mutually unintelligible varieties (in effect, languages), or it will converge so that differences across groups of speakers are largely eliminated.\n\nIf English is, numerically speaking, the language of 'others', then the center of gravity of the language is almost certain to shift in the direction of the 'others'. In the words of Widdowson, there is likely to be a paradigm shift from one of language distribution to one of language spread:\nIn this new paradigm, English spreads and adapts according to the linguistic and cultural preferences of its users in the Outer and Expanding circles (refer to Kachru's Three Circles of English). However, if English is genuinely to become the language of 'others', then the 'others' have to be accorded – or perhaps more likely, accord themselves – at least the same English language rights as those claimed by mother-tongue speakers.\n\nThe other potential shift in the linguistic center of gravity is that English could lose its international role altogether, or come to share it with a number of equals. Although this would not happen mainly as a result of native-speaker resistance to the spread of non-native speaker Englishes and the consequent abandoning of English by large numbers of non-native speakers, the latter could play a part.\n\nAs evidence that English may eventually give way to another language (or languages) as the world's lingua franca, David Crystal cites Internet data:\n\nOn the other hand, there are at least 1500 languages present on the internet now and that figure is likely to increase. Nevertheless, Crystal predicts that English will retain its dominant presence.\n\n"}
