{"id": "9596346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9596346", "title": "1935 Belgian Grand Prix", "text": "1935 Belgian Grand Prix\n\nThe 1935 Belgian Grand Prix was a Grand Prix motor race held at Spa-Francorchamps on 14 July 1935.\n\n"}
{"id": "25096772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25096772", "title": "2007 World Modern Pentathlon Championships", "text": "2007 World Modern Pentathlon Championships\n\nThe 2007 World Modern Pentathlon Championships were held in Berlin, Germany from August 18 to August 21. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24387378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24387378", "title": "2009 United Kingdom E. coli outbreak", "text": "2009 United Kingdom E. coli outbreak\n\nThe 2009 \"E. coli\" outbreak in the United Kingdom was an outbreak of \"E. coli\" in visitors to a farm in Surrey from August to September 2009. 93 people were affected, most of whom were under 10 years of age. Of those affected, 27 were hospitalized and 17 developed hemolytic uremic syndrome.\n\nInvestigations by the Health Protection Agency implicated a petting barn at Godstone Farm as a possible source of the outbreak. Fecal samples from several animals in the barn later tested positive for the strain of \"E. coli\" in the patients, again indicating that the barn may have been the source of the outbreak. Godstone Farm voluntarily closed the barn in September 2009, after which there were no further cases.\n"}
{"id": "26193117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26193117", "title": "Actua Corporation", "text": "Actua Corporation\n\nActua Corporation was a venture capital firm. During the dot com bubble, the company had a market capitalization of over $50 billion. The company was originally known as Internet Capital Group, Inc. and changed its name to Actua Corporation in September 2014. In 2018, the company underwent liquidation.\n\nIn March 1996, Ken Fox and Walter Buckley left Safeguard Scientifics to form Internet Capital Group (ICG), a venture capital firm focused on business-to-business e-commerce. They asked Safeguard Scientifics CEO Pete Musser for $5 million in funding, but he insisted on investing $15 million. In total, Buckley and Fox raised $40 million to start ICG, twice what they wanted. In addition to Safeguard Scientifics, major investors included Comcast, Compaq, BancBoston Ventures, and a dozen individuals. Initially, the company was organized as a limited-liability company.\n\nFollowing the \"keiretsu\" model used by Safeguard Scientifics, the company was heavily involved in the operations of the companies in which it invested and the start-ups would do business with each other, increasing the value of all parties. Its annual meetings were opportunities for CEOs of partner companies to share their experiences and cut new deals. One member CEO called it \"a perfect way to manage chaos.\" The work environment was casual, or as one partner company CEO called it, \"almost like a fraternity\".\n\nOne of ICG's first investments was a website called Water Online. Under the guidance of ICG, in late 1997, Water Online hired Mark Walsh, head of AOL's B2B division, as CEO. The company changed its name to VerticalNet, expanded into 47 different industries, and became one of the first B2B companies to become a public company, albeit with limited revenue.\n\nSpurning opportunities to invest in online retailers such as CDNow and AutoWeb, ICG developed a reputation as \"the VCs to see if you were an entrepreneur with a B2B idea.\" In July 1998, GE Capital invested in the company in a financing round that generated $70 million. Early investments began to pay off and ICG generated additional funds by selling some of its positions. However, unlike traditional venture capitalists, Buckley and Fox envisioned that ICG would hold most of its investments for ten years or longer. The duo were ambitious, aiming to have a stake in 80% of the B2B market. In the fall of 1998, to support this goal, the company aggressively hired top talent from companies such as Microsoft, McKinsey & Co., General Electric, Cambridge Technology Partners, Heidrick & Struggles, and Softbank. After much effort, Fox persuaded Sam Jadallah, Microsoft's chief of enterprise sales and marketing, to join the company. In February 1999, the company converted to a C corporation. In May, $90 million of additional funding was raised via a convertible bond issue. \n\nIn August 1999, the company became a public company via an initial public offering, offering 14.9 million shares at $12 per share. The company sold another 7.5 million shares to IBM, generating more than $200 million. Dell Computer bought 1 million of the shares in the IPO. High-profile investors now included Amerindo Investment Advisors, the House of Saud, the Penske family, and David Bonderman. Safeguard Scientifics was the largest stakeholder.\n\nAt the time of the IPO, ICG held stakes in 35 companies. About half the businesses aimed to create either an online marketplace or online community, while the other half were engaged in software development. \n\nThe stock doubled in price on its first day, and hit $50 per share in October 1999. Book value of the company, including stakes in VerticalNet and U.S. Interactive which had gone public, was only about $1 billion and Wall Street was betting on future success. \n\nBy December 1999, the stock was trading at over $200 per share. Buckley's stake of 10 million shares, or 3.5% of the company and Fox's stake of 12 million shares, or 4.5% of the company, were each worth over $2 billion. The company was valued at nearly $60 billion, making it the 3rd largest Internet company by market capitalization behind AOL and Yahoo!. By then, the company had invested $300 million in 39 start-ups and had a staff of 29 people to manage and advise those companies. Operations were split into two locations with Buckley serving as CEO and working out of the Philadelphia area, while Fox managed West Coast operations in San Francisco. Three executives were hired in November to head a new European team.\n\nIn December 1999, the company raised over $1 billion in additional capital. During its first 9 months as a corporation, it realized only $14.8 million of revenue and lost $6.4 million. In 1998, it recorded a profit of $14 million on $3 million of revenue, with the profits coming from sales of companies.\n\nBy February 1, 2000, the stock had declined nearly $100 per share in anticipation of insider selling at the expiration of the lock-up period. However, retail investors bought up insider shares, stabilizing the price. Meanwhile, the company continued to expand its investments. By early 2000, the company had invested $1.4 billion in 61 start-up firms, and was forging new partnerships with old economy leaders. The rapid expansion was motivated by what Fox called \"the biggest wealth-creation opportunity the world has ever seen\" – finding the promising e-commerce B2B companies before anyone else.\n\nThe NASDAQ Composite stock market index peaked in March 2000 and the company was hurt by the bursting of the dot-com bubble. By April 2000, its stock was down to $40 a share and GE Capital filed to sell nearly 1 million shares. By June 2000, the stock was down to $30 per share. Buckley, who sold very little of his own stock, remained optimistic. By November 2000, the stock was down to $11 per share and after the September 11 attacks it traded for 70 cents per share. Two years after its peak in March 2000, the company had a market capitalization of $200 million, down 99.5%.\n\nThe company survived the crash, and changed its business model. Instead of taking small stakes in many companies, it invested in a few \"core\" companies at a time, usually as majority owner. This allowed the company to have much greater control over the operations of its investments. Buckley refocused the company to find strategic partnerships with traditional industry leaders such as a joint venture with DuPont called CapSpan in early 2000. ICG sold Logistics.com to Manhattan Associates for $20 million in 2003.\n\nIn February 2013, the company sold its stake in Channel Intelligence to Google for $60 million in proceeds.\n\nIn December 2013, the company sold Procurian to Accenture for $375 million.\n\nIn September 2014, when the company changed its name to Actua Corporation, its stock was trading around $20 per share and was worth approximately $700 million.\n\nIn October 2016, the company sold Govdelivery to Vista Equity Partners for $153 million.\n\nIn December 2017, the company sold its interests in VelocityEHS and Bolt Solutions for $328 million.\n\nIn January 2018, the company sold FolioDynamix for net proceeds of $166.3 million.\n\nIn 2018, the company underwent liquidation.\n"}
{"id": "51715299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51715299", "title": "Aleppo offensive (September–October 2016)", "text": "Aleppo offensive (September–October 2016)\n\nThe Aleppo offensive of September–October 2016 was the military operation launched in Aleppo in late September 2016 by the Syrian Army and its allies aiming to capture all of the remaining rebel-held parts of the city of Aleppo. Rebel forces controlling East Aleppo at that time were primarily fighters of Fatah Halab (which includes FSA units), although a significant number of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham and Ahrar al-Sham fighters were also present.\n\nEarly on 22 September 2016, the Syrian and Russian Air Forces started preparatory air-strikes for the upcoming offensive. Over 40 air-strikes were conducted against five districts throughout the day. Mobilization of ground units had also started and by the evening of that day, the ground assault against the rebel-held eastern part of Aleppo city was about to begin. At this time, the military officially announced the start of the offensive.\n\nThe strikes continued for a second day into 23 September, and the explosions were described as \"the fiercest the city had faced\". Buildings were demolished, a main water station was damaged and neighborhoods were engulfed in flames. Since the start of the bombing campaign, 50 Russian air-strikes had been conducted on the city and 30 in the surrounding areas, in addition to dozens carried out by the Syrian Air Force. During the day, the first Army ground advances took place in the southern outskirts of Aleppo, as the military secured the Ramousah-'Amiriyah highway and its intersection after gains around the Al-Badawi mosque. The government advances forced civilians from the area to migrate to other parts of eastern Aleppo. Later, pro-government Palestinian militias also captured parts of the Handarat Camp area of northeastern Aleppo, namely the Shaher district. The Handarat Camp had been previously a Palestinian refugee camp. By the end of the day, the Syrian Air Force had conducted more than 150 air-strikes against 30 neighbourhoods in Aleppo. Army artillery bombardment was also conducted.\n\nEarly on 24 September, military preparations were being made for the Syrian Army to assault the southern Sheikh Sa'id district. The attack started that morning, and within hours government troops had taken control of several building blocks. Concurrently, pro-government militias continued to advance in the Handarat Camp area, seizing the eastern entrance to the Camp and leaving only half of it still rebel-held. Shortly after, the Palestinian militias captured the whole Handarat Camp. In addition, government troops made advances on a third axis, taking control of two dozen building blocks near the historic Aleppo citadel in the city center. Meanwhile, a new wave of air-strikes were conducted throughout Aleppo, and a military official stated the strikes had been targeting an array of rebel fortifications, including tunnels, bunkers and command centers. Following the capture of the Handarat Camp district, the Army shifted its focus to the nearby Kindi Cancer Hospital, which had been converted into a military base by the rebels. Intense clashes took place at the hospital, as the Army also imposed fire control over the nearby Shuqeif Industrial Area. Later that evening, an initial rebel counter-attack against the Handarat Camp was repelled. However, pro-government militias withdrew from the district, while still maintaining control of the nearby Shaher sector and the Handarat Industrial District, east of the refugee camp.\n\nOn 25 September, after securing the Shaher district, the Palestinian militias launched a new assault on the Handarat Camp. The camp was heavily hit by air-strikes. The bombing burned many rebel vehicles. Fighting also continued in the southern Sheikh Sa'id district, where the Army was reportedly in control of 25–30 percent of the area.\n\nOn 27 September, the Army advanced in the Farafira district of Old Aleppo and captured it. At the same time, the two largest hospitals in the rebel-held part of the city were hit by an air-strike and artillery fire. The next day, the military slightly advanced in the al-Suweiqa area of Old Aleppo, although some saw the assault on Old Aleppo as a diversionary attack so the Army could take control of the Handarat Camp where fighting continued.\n\nOn 29 September, pro-government forces broke through the last rebel defense line in the Handarat Camp and once again took complete control of the district. In order to secure Handarat Camp, government troops continued with their assault and attacked the nearby Shaqayf district, as well as the Kindi Hospital. The next morning, after heavy clashes, pro-government forces captured the Kindi Hospital, thus fortifying their positions at the Handarat Camp and coming within two kilometers of the Jandoul roundabout. Soon after, the military started an operation against the rebel-held central district of Suleiman Al-Halabi and advanced, seizing much of its western sector. However, after advancing, government troops withdrew and the rebels recaptured their lost positions. During the fighting in Suleiman Al-Halabi, which was described as \"back and forth\", a water station was bombed, with both sides trading blame. The Army was trying to reach the rebel-held station since it was the main water source for the government-held part of Aleppo. Later in the day, the rebels reentered the Kindi hospital, reigniting fighting for the building, while the Army reportedly captured the northwestern part of the Bustan Al-Basha district. The rebels eventually managed to recapture the hospital.\n\nOn 1 October, the Syrian Army continued to advance in the Bustan Al-Basha district, although subsequently the rebels claimed to had recaptured the positions they lost in Bustan Al-Basha, while elsewhere government forces captured Tal Shuqayf hill and 16 nearby buildings, establishing fire control over the Aleppo Armament Base and the Shuqayf Industrial Area. The next day, the Army seized the Shuqayf Industrial area, the Jandoul beltway and the Kindi Hospital. During the Army's gains at Shuqayf, the Kurdish YPG militia also advanced against the rebels at the Jandoul roundabout. Meanwhile, Army advances in Bustan Al-Basha continued, with government forces reaching the outskirts of the al-Heluk district, while a new Army attack on the Suleiman Al-Halabi water station was again repelled. Elsewhere, the largest hospital in the rebel part of the city, known as M10, was once again bombed. At this point, the Army called on the rebels to withdraw from Aleppo, offering them safe passage and aid supplies.\n\nOn 3 October, Syrian government forces attacked the Owaija district and reportedly seized a quarter of the area before sundown, while the Army established fire control over the Jandoul roundabout. The same day, the M10 hospital was bombed for the third time and completely destroyed. On 4 October, the rebels claimed that an Army assault on the southern Sheikh Sa'id district had been repelled, while a government source stated they had reached a bridge in the northwestern part of the district. Meanwhile, the military advanced in the city center, capturing several high-rise buildings, as well as in the factories area of the northern Owaija district. For the first time in four years, Syrian Army tanks crossed the frontline in Aleppo.\n\nOn 5 October, Syrian Army advances continued in the northern district of Owaija and the southern district of Al-Amiriyah. As of 6 October, government forces were in control of 50–80% of the Bustan Al-Basha district 45–50% of Owaija and the northern Bakarah Quarries that overlook the Kindi Hospital. With the new advances in Bustan Al-Basha, the Army was closing in on the Suleiman Al-Halabi water station from two sides and by dusk they had secured the Suleiman Al-Halabi district. Later that night, the Army made advances in the Salah al-Din district and the Bureij area, while they had also reportedly taken control of half of the Sheikh Sa'id district.\n\nEarly on 7 October, Syrian government forces continued to assault Sheikh Sa'id, seizing Tal Sheikh Sa'eed hill. Still, the rebels managed to recapture other territory in the district they had lost. The next day, the rebels were able to reclaim large parts of Sheikh Sa'id and several points around the water station in Suleiman Al-Halabi, leaving them in control of 20% of that district. Still, despite this, government forces took complete control of the Owaija district and the Jandoul roundabout. Subsequently, the Army took control of over 50% of the nearby Manashar Al-Breij district. Army advances also continued in Bustan Al-Basha.\n\nOn 9 October, back-and-forth fighting raged in Sheikh Sa'id and Bustan Al-Basha. By this point, government forces had seized 15–20% of the rebel-held part of Aleppo, with the rebels struggling to maintain a stable frontline due to a lack of sufficient resources, which had also been impacted by the heavy air campaign against their positions and ammo depots, to counter Army advances.\n\nEarly on 10 October, Syrian government troops seized Tal Sifan hill, near Owaija, and the following day consolidated their control of the Jandoul roundabout. Two days later, the Army seized four hills in the northeast of Aleppo, including one that overlooks the Hanano Youth Housing Complex. Advances in the northeast of Aleppo continued into 14 October, with the Syrian Army making its first push towards the Youth Housing Complex. The military also made an effort to open a route between the north of Aleppo and the airport in the south, managing to take control of most of the Al-Aradh Al-Hamra district in the southeast of Aleppo. Meanwhile, the M10 hospital was once again hit with a bunker-buster bomb.\n\nOn 15 October, Syrian government forces advanced near the Ba'idayn roundabout, in the north of Aleppo, amid heavy fighting, breaching a one kilometer frontline and pushing the rebels back by one kilometer. They also advanced on the Nayrab Bridge-al-Miysar district axis from the direction of the airport, fully securing the Al-Aradh Al-Hamra district, and seized parts of the nearby Karm al-Trab neighborhood. In the evening, government troops penetrated rebel defense lines at the Ba'idayn roundabout, capturing the surrounding factories.\n\nOn 16 October, a new Syrian Army assault on Sheikh Sa'id was repelled by rebel forces, while Syrian government forces advanced in the Salah al-Din district, capturing over 10 buildings.\n\nOn 17 October, Russia announced that it would temporarily halt airstrikes on eastern Aleppo for eight hours on 20 October, in order to allow some civilians and rebels to evacuate. The strikes had been halted two days earlier than intended, on the morning of 18 October, and the suspension continued into the next day when it was announced the truce scheduled to take place on 20 October, would be extended to three days until 22 October. Rebel officials completely rejected the proposal on evacuating, although 100–150 Ahrar al-Sham rebels from eastern Aleppo were evacuated in three buses destined to the Idlib Governorate. Additionally, tensions arose between different rebel factions when those that wanted to evacuate were prevented by others, and several assassinations of those who supported withdrawal took place. The al-Nusra Front reportedly carried out public executions of residents who attempted to leave the city.\n\nFighting reportedly resumed on 22 October, with the Army making advances in Salah al-Din early on 24 October. However, Russia declared the ceasefire would continue.\n\nOn 28 October, rebel forces outside Aleppo began a counter-offensive to break the siege.\n\nSyria's president Bashar al-Assad said that the conflict had become a war by proxy between the Russian and US superpowers, who were still embroiled in a Cold War. According to him, the offensive was a necessary step towards pushing terrorists out of Syria and into Turkey.\n\n\"Reuters\" and \"The Los Angeles Times\" described the offensive as a possible turning point in the war.\n\nAt the United Nations, the U.S. Ambassador to the UN, Samantha Power, accused Russia of \"barbarism\" because of its air-strikes during the offensive, while the United Kingdom and France accused Russia was involved in war crimes. According to the \"Los Angeles Times\" and unnamed \"longtime observers\" of the Syrian conflict, the Syrian and Russian bombardments in the week of 22–28 September were \"marked by unparalleled savagery and suffering\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30141448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30141448", "title": "Algerian legislative election, 1987", "text": "Algerian legislative election, 1987\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Algeria on 26 February 1987. The country was a one-party state at the time, with the National Liberation Front (FLN) as the sole legal party. The FLN nominated 885 candidates for the 295 seats, with voters asked to express their preference by crossing out names on the ballot. Only 67 of the 132 incumbents who ran for re-election were successful.\n\nVoter turnout was over 87%.\n"}
{"id": "28952456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28952456", "title": "Anna Ekelöf", "text": "Anna Ekelöf\n\nAnna Eleonora Ekelöf (fl. 1765), was a Swedish serial impostor. She committed fraud with a series of false identities, posing as mamsell, noblewoman, officer, Count and the Crown Prince of Sweden before her arrest in 1765.\n\nIn June 1765, Anna Ekelöf was arrested dressed in male clothing in Värmland near the Swedish-Norwegian border. Being put on trial for investigation, she was revealed to have committed a serial of identity frauds. Witnesses testified that she was first encountered in the border area dressed as a mamsell, claiming to be on the run to marry her beloved, who was not approved by her parents. After this, she dressed herself as a nobleman with a white wig and introduced herself as Count Carl Ekeblad, who had merely been forced to escape Sweden dressed as a woman after having been exiled from Stockholm due to an incident, and who was merely awaiting the King's forgiveness to return.\n\nAs Count Ekeblad, she had recruited a retinue of Swedes and Norwegians, among them the runaway Swedish farmer Olof Persson, the runaway Swedish baker Schutlz, who acted as servants, as well as the wife of Police officer Istmin, Emerentia Schröder, \"To dance and ammuse himself with\". She was housed at the Löfsnäs manor in Norway, belong to the sister of Emerentia. During her time as Count, Ekelöf lived a \"debauched life with drinking, foul language, foolhardily riding and a never ending use of tobacco\", and was also known to threaten and struck people who opposed her. She defended herself by saying that she had only acted in such a way to be trustworthy in her role as a man.\n\nAt the customary office of Magnebro, she then had rumors spread which let it be known that she was in fact the Swedish Crown Prince in disguise who, in a conflict with riksråd Count Carl Gustaf Tessin and the nobility party of the parliament, had come to prepare a coup d'etat to depose the government. This was in fact not an unlikely rumor, as there was at the time many serious rumors circulating about planned uprisings against the government since the Coup of 1756 by Queen Louisa Ulrika. The actual Crown Prince was in the same age and with the same fragile built as Ekelöf, and Anna Ekelöf was furthermore equipped with a vast and up to date knowledge about the current political situation.\n\nWhen rumors reached the Danish-Norwegian authorities in Oslo that someone alleged to be the Swedish heir to the throne was present at the border, Ekelöf was taken captive and brought to Oslo, where her identity as a woman was discovered. She was apparently allowed to return to the border, but was soon after arrested by the Swedish authorities, who subjected her to a physical examination to establish her gender.\n\nAnna Ekelöf admitted posing as a Count, but denied to have ever posed as the heir to the throne, and if so, only under the intoxication of alcohol. She stated that she was the 20-year-old daughter of a diseased sea captain in Gothenburg, and that she had run away from home to elope and meet her beloved, sergeant Magnus Sandberg, in Norway, where they could marry without the approval of his disapproving parents. She had not intended to pose as a man, she had merely put the clothes on, after having been provided them by a runaway Swedish baker on the way, because her own clothes had been damaged during the trip and the nobleman clothes was nearer to her social class as a mamsell. The whole posing as a count was merely an innocent play while she awaited to be united with her beloved.\n\nThe authorities, furthermore, suspected her to have eloped over the border with the purpose of performing an abortion, and suggested that her relationship with Magnus Sandberg was in fact incestuous. During the trial, it was discovered that she on several previous occasions had left a trace of false identities: she had, on various occasions, posed as a runaway girl, fleeing from an arranged marriage to marry her true love. The story of a girl eloping for love dressed as a man was a popular motive in contemporary novels, a story she apparently used often in past deceptions.\n\nThe only testimony that may give a suggestion to her real identity, was a testimony given a previous trial, in which she had been imprisoned at Halmstad Castle. At that occasion, care taker Emanuel Bergman from Borås pointed her out to be the same person as a certain ”Passannicka” ('Pass Port-Annicka'), who had previously been subjected to physical punishment for crimes committed in Borås and exiled from that city.\n\nThe true identity of Anna Ekelöf was never established, as she managed to escape custody and was never caught again. On her way to court to hear her verdict, the prison carriage broke down, and the party was forced to spend the night on the farm of the peasant Nils Amundsson. She managed to convince him that she was indeed the crown prince in disguise, and that he would be richly rewarded if he assisted her escape. The night of 12–13 June 1765, Amundsson knocked on her window, and she climbed out and mounted a horse he provided her, rode of toward the Norwegian border and was never seen again. Amundsson claimed that he had been so \"intoxicated\" by her talk that he had become \"prepared to sacrifice his life and property\" for her.\n\nAnna Ekelöf was not the only female criminal posing as a man in early modern Sweden. Kerstin Pedersdotter ran away from her abusive husband dressed as a man under the name Christopher and took refuge with her stepbrother, with whom she made a theft tour through the countryside, and was, similar to Ekelöf, accused of having dressed as a man to hide an incestuous relationship. Gunilla Harberg, known as ”Tjuv-Gunnil” (Gunnil the Thief), had escaped to Karlskrona dressed as a man under the name Gunnar after a burglary in Kalmar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9090053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9090053", "title": "Battle of Spilia", "text": "Battle of Spilia\n\nThe Battle of Spilia was fought on 12 December 1955 in the EOKA campaign against the British in Cyprus.\n\nActing on information provided by an informant, 700 soldiers of the British Army attempted to encircle the headquarters of EOKA General Georgios Grivas on the Troodos mountains near the village of Spilia. As they ascended the mountain, EOKA guerrillas spotted them. Grivas divided his troops in two, keeping half with himself to fight the units coming from the north side while sending his second-in-command Grigoris Afxentiou to fight the rest of the British who were ascending on the south side. Both EOKA units retreated to the summit of the mountain after engaging the enemy and then proceeded, in heavy fog, to escape towards the west. Soon, the British units from the north and the ones from the south reached the summit and, unable to see clearly in the fog, and in the belief that they were surrounded by EOKA fighters, started shooting and calling in airstrikes at each other for eight hours with 50 casualties — 4 deaths and 46 injuries.\n\nThis was a renowned battle in the EOKA campaign to unite Cyprus with Greece (1955–1959). It was significant in that a British victory at Spilia would have ended the campaign in its very first year since General Grivas had concentrated his guerrilla fighters, nearly thirty of them, there. Instead, the struggle went on and led, if not to union (\"Enosis\"), to the independence of Cyprus.\n\n"}
{"id": "10675891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10675891", "title": "Battle of the 300 Champions", "text": "Battle of the 300 Champions\n\nThe Battle of the 300 Champions, known since Herodotus' day as the Battle of the Champions, was a battle fought in roughly 546 BC between Argos and Sparta. Rather than commit full armies both sides agreed to pitting 300 of their best men against each other. \n\nAccording to Herodotus Sparta had surrounded and captured the plain of Thyrea. When the Argives marched out to defend it, the two armies agreed to let 300 champions from each city fight, with the winner taking the territory. Presumably the idea was to reduce the total number of casualties. Both armies marched home, so as to prevent either side from helping their champions and escalating the duel into a full battle. \n\nNeither side would allow for any injured men to be taken. The day called for complete destruction of the enemy force for victory. The two armies were evenly matched and neither could gain the upper hand. They fought until nightfall, and after a bloody battle only three men remained, two Argives and one Spartan. The Argives, Alcenor and Chromius, believing that they had killed all of the Spartans, left the battlefield racing home to Argos to announce their victory. However, they had made one mistake: Othryades, an injured Spartan had survived. As he was technically the last man standing on the battlefield from either army, he too claimed victory. He survived long enough to tell his baggage handlers of this, and then he committed suicide. By tradition, Othryades was ashamed to be the only man in his unit to live, and so he killed himself on the field of battle rather than return to Sparta. The reason for the suicide is up for debate, but the act is of great importance. Othryades did not die by an Argive sword, and the Spartans could always claim that he survived the battle and killed himself in shame, thus gaining an upper hand due to this act of honor.\n\nBoth sides were able to claim victory: the Argives because more of their champions had survived, and the Spartans because their single champion held the field. Argos did not take too kindly to the Spartans claiming victory and sent their entire hoplite army which was met by a Spartan force of equal magnitude. The Spartans won a decisive victory and as a result gained control of Thyreatis.\n\nPausanias adds that the battle was foretold by the Sibyl, and that the Argives considered themselves the victors and dedicated a bronze sculpture of the Trojan horse at Delphi to commemorate the victory. However, Pausanias says that the sculptor of this horse was Antiphanes of Argos, who dates to ca. 400 BC. Therefore, either Pausanias is mistaken, or he is confusing this with a battle at Thyrea in 424 BC. \n\nYears later, in 420 BC during a lull in the Peloponnesian War, Argos challenged Sparta to a rematch of the Battle of the 300 Champions. Sparta declined.\n\n"}
{"id": "38188829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38188829", "title": "Blancpain GT World Challenge Europe", "text": "Blancpain GT World Challenge Europe\n\nThe Blancpain GT World Challenge Europe, formerly the FIA GT Series in 2013 and the Blancpain Sprint Series in 2014 and 2015, and \"Blancpain GT Series Sprint Cup\" from 2016 to 2018, is a sports car racing series organized by the Stéphane Ratel Organisation (SRO) with the approval of the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The championship now exclusively races in Europe, but had in previous years visited other continents including Asia. The series continues the sprint format for GT-cars carried out by the defunct FIA GT1 World Championship.\n\nThe Blancpain GT World Challenge Europe is contested with GT3-spec cars. Each event consists of two races over a weekend with two drivers per car and a mandatory pit stop.\n\nThe schedule of the Blancpain GT Series Sprint Cup consists of races in Europe and Asia. The majority of the races are held on mid-size European circuits.\n\nIn 2013, the FIA GT Series was created after the demise of the FIA GT1 World Championship and the FIA GT3 European Championship. The series was supposed to form the \"FIA GT World Series\" in conjunction with the Blancpain Endurance Series. This plan was abandoned before the start of the 2013 season.\n\nThe name of the FIA GT Series resembles the FIA GT Championship (1997-2009) that was known for its endurance races all over the world. Except for the mandatory driver changes the two championships differ highly in sporting and technical regulations.\n\nIn 2014, the competition changed the name for Blancpain Sprint Series.\n\nAfter developing their partnership, Blancpain and the SRO have decided that 2016 will see both the Sprint and Endurance Series further integrated into the Blancpain GT Series, putting the emphasis on the prestigious overall drivers' and manufacturers' titles causing the Sprint Series name to change from Blancpain Sprint Series to Blancpain GT Series Sprint Cup.\n\nOn 25 May 2018, the SRO acquired promotional rights to the Pirelli World Challenge, a North American GT series sanctioned by the United States Auto Club. On 29 September 2018, the SRO changed the names of the Blancpain GT Asia and Sprint Cup, to adopt the World Challenge name used in North America. The three series together will be known as the Blancpain GT World Challenge, with each series adding their region to the series name (America, Asia, Europe).\n\n"}
{"id": "55917467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55917467", "title": "Break Up (TV special)", "text": "Break Up (TV special)\n\nBreak Up is a musical comedy special which aired on ABC in 1973. Directed by Jerry Paris and produced by Charles W. Fries and Alan Sacks, the cast included Carl Ballantine, Jack Collins, Bruce Davison, Anthony Holland, Bernadette Peters, Billy Sands, and Barbara Sharma. The special consisted of three sketches which were written by Dee Caruso, Gerald Gardner, and Don Van Atta. The show ended with the entire cast singing \"Together (Wherever We Go)\" from the 1959 musical \"Gypsy\" with music by Jule Styne and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim.\n\n"}
{"id": "14990888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14990888", "title": "Checkpoint Strikeforce", "text": "Checkpoint Strikeforce\n\nCheckpoint Strikeforce is a multi-jurisdictional program in Virginia, Washington DC, Delaware, West Virginia, and Maryland to combat drunk driving. Its motto is \"Drunk driving, over the limit, under arrest.\" Checkpoint Strikeforce began in Virginia in 2002. In 2007, 800,000 drivers were stopped at Checkpoint Strikeforce sobriety checkpoints.\n\nIn 2013, jurisdictions took part in the \"Thanksgiving Belts & Booze Campaign\" to draw attention to the high rate of DUI crashes that occur over the holidays. The campaign lasted from November 25 to December 13, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "22244475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22244475", "title": "Child abduction", "text": "Child abduction\n\nChild abduction or child theft is the unauthorized removal of a minor (a child under the age of legal adulthood) from the custody of the child's natural parents or legally appointed guardians.\nThe term child abduction conflates two legal and social categories which differ by their perpetrating contexts: abduction by members of the child's family or abduction by strangers:\n\n\nNeonatal \"infant abduction\" and prenatal fetal abduction are the earliest ages of child abduction as defined by a viable child through the age of majority. In addition, \"embryo theft\" and even \"oocyte misappropriation\" in reproductive medical settings have been legalistically construed as child abduction.\n\nThe stereotypical version of child abduction by a stranger is the classic form of \"kidnapping,\" exemplified by the Lindbergh kidnapping, in which the child is detained, transported some distance, held for ransom or with intent to keep the child permanently. These instances are rare.\n\nThe earliest nationally publicised kidnapping of a child by a stranger for the purpose of extracting a ransom payment from the parents was the Pool case of 1819, which took place in Baltimore, Maryland. Margaret Pool, 20-months-old, was kidnapped on May 20 by Nancy Gamble (19-years-old) and secreted with the assistance of Marie Thomas. On May 22, the parents, James and Mary Pool, placed an ad in the \"Baltimore Patriot\" newspaper offering a $20 reward for Mary's return. When the child was recovered on May 23—through the efforts of members of the community who conducted a search—it was revealed that the child had been badly whipped by Gamble and bore bloody wounds. Both Gamble and Thomas were tried for the crime of kidnapping and found guilty. The motive for the crime was demonstrated to be financial. She had kidnapped the child with the intention of waiting for a reward to be offered, then would return the child and collect the money. This is a technique favored by many ransom child kidnappers before the use of written ransom demands became the favored method. Nancy Gamble's crime and subsequent trial were reported in detail in \"Baltimore Patriot\" (June 26, 1819). The June 26 article, as well as others on the case that had appeared in the \"Patriot\", were reprinted in newspapers in other states including: Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Vermont, Virginia and Washington D.C.\n\nIn 1597, Elizabeth I of England licensed the abduction of children for use as chapel choristers and theatre performers.\n\nThere are reports that abduction of children to be used or sold as slaves is common in parts of Africa.\n\nThe Lord's Resistance Army, a rebel paramilitary group operating mainly in northern Uganda, is notorious for its abductions of children for use as child soldiers or sex slaves. According to the Sudan Tribune, , more than 30,000 children have been kidnapped by the LRA and their leader, Joseph Kony.\n\nA very small number of abductions result from - in most cases - women who kidnap babies (or other young children) to bring up as their own. These women are often unable to have children of their own, or have miscarried, and seek to satisfy their unmet psychological need by abducting a child rather than by adopting. The crime is often premeditated, with the woman often simulating pregnancy to reduce suspicion when a baby suddenly appears in the household.\n\nHistorically, a few states have practiced child abduction for indoctrination, as a form of punishment for political opponents, or for profit. Notable cases include the kidnapping of children by Nazi Germany (400,000 children kidnapped for possible Germanization), the lost children of Francoism, during which an estimated 300,000 children were abducted from their parents. and the about 500 \"Children of the Disappeared (Desaparecidos)\" who were adopted by the military in the Argentine Dirty War . In Australia the 'stolen generation' is the term given to native Aboriginal children who were forcibly abducted or whose mothers gave consent under duress or misleading information so the government could assimilate the black population into the white majority.\n\nSome other abductions have been to make children available by child-selling for adoption by other people, without adopting parents necessarily being aware of how children were actually made available for adoption.\n\nBy far the most common kind of child abduction is parental child abduction (200,000 in 2010 alone) and often occurs when the parents separate or begin divorce proceedings. A parent may remove or retain the child from the other seeking to gain an advantage in expected or pending child-custody proceedings or because that parent fears losing the child in those expected or pending child-custody proceedings; a parent may refuse to return a child at the end of an \"access visit\" or may flee with the child to prevent an access visit or fear of domestic violence and abuse.\n\nParental child abductions may be within the same city, within the state region or within the same country, or may be international. Studies performed for the U.S. Department of Justice's Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention reported that in 1999, 53% percent of family abducted children were gone less than one week, and 21% were gone one month or more.\n\nInternational child abduction occurs when a parent, relative or acquaintance of a child leaves the country with the child or children in violation of a custody decree or visitation order. Another related situation is retention where children are taken on an alleged vacation to a foreign country and are not returned.\n\nWhile the number of cases which is over 600,000 a year consists of international child abduction is small in comparison to domestic cases, they are often the most difficult to resolve due to the involvement of conflicting international jurisdictions. Two-thirds of international parental abduction cases involve mothers who often allege domestic violence. Even when there is a treaty agreement for the return of a child, the court may be reluctant to return the child if the return could result in the permanent separation of the child from their primary caregiver. This could occur if the abducting parent faced criminal prosecution or deportation by returning to the child's home country.\n\nThe Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction is an international human rights treaty and legal mechanism to recover children abducted to another country. The Hague Convention does not provide relief in many cases resulting in some parents hiring private parties to recover their children. Covert recovery was first made public when Don Feeney, a former Delta Commando, responded to a desperate mother's plea to locate and recover her daughter from Jordan in the 1980s. Feeney successfully located and returned the child. A movie and book about Feeney's exploits lead to other desperate parents seeking him out for recovery services.\n\nBy 2007, both the United States, European authorities, and NGO's had begun serious interest in the use of mediation as a means by which some international child abduction cases may be resolved. The primary focus was on Hague Cases. Development of mediation in Hague cases, suitable for such an approach, had been tested and reported by REUNITE, a London Based NGO which provides support in international child abduction cases, as successful. Their reported success lead to the first international training for cross-border mediation in 2008, sponsored by NCMEC. Held at the University of Miami School of Law, Lawyers, Judges, and certified mediators interested in international child abduction cases, attended.\n\nInternational child abduction is not new. A case of international child abduction has been documented aboard the Titanic. However, the incidence of international child abduction continues to increase due to the ease of international travel, increase in bi-cultural marriages and a high divorce rate. Parental abduction has been defined as child abuse.\n\nLaunched in 1998 as a joint venture of the International Centre for Missing & Exploited Children (ICMEC) and NCMEC, the Global Missing Children's Network (GMCN) is a network of countries that connect, share best practices, and disseminate information and images of missing children to improve the effectiveness of missing children investigations. The Network has 22 member countries: Albania, Argentina, Australia, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the US.\n\nEach country can access a customizable website platform, and can enter missing children information into a centralized, multilingual database that has photos of and information about missing children, which can be viewed and distributed to assist in location and recovery efforts. GMCN staff train new countries joining the Network, and provide an annual member conference sponsored by Motorola Solutions Foundation at which best practices, current issues, trends, policies, procedures, and possible solutions are discussed.\n\nThe parents of Madeleine McCann, a three-year-old girl who disappeared from her bed in a hotel in Portugal in 2007, approached ICMEC to help them publicize her case. ICMEC's YouTube channel, \"Don'tYouForgetAboutMe,\" which lets people post videos, images, and information about their missing children, was launched that year as a part of these efforts, and had 2,200 members. ICMEC reviews the postings to ensure that any child in a posted video is in fact missing, that authorities are aware that the child is missing, and that the images are not inappropriate.\n\nSee the Child Abduction Act 1984, the Child Abduction and Custody Act 1985 and the Child Abduction (Northern Ireland) Order 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "311400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311400", "title": "Common year", "text": "Common year\n\nA common year is a calendar year with 365 days. More generally, a common year is one without intercalation. The Gregorian calendar, (like the earlier Julian calendar), employs both common years and leap years to keep the calendar aligned with the tropical year, which does not contain an exact number of days.\n\nThe common year of 365 days has 52 weeks and one day, hence a common year always begins and ends on the same day of the week (for example, January 1 and December 31 fell on a Sunday in 2017) and the year following a common year will start on the subsequent day of the week. In common years, February has four weeks, so March will begin on the same day of the week. November will also begin on this day.\n\nIn the Gregorian calendar, 303 of every 400 years are common years. By comparison, in the Julian calendar, 300 out of every 400 years are common years, and in the Revised Julian calendar (used by Greece) 682 out of every 900 years are common years.\n\n"}
{"id": "4807194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4807194", "title": "Consequences of the Black Death", "text": "Consequences of the Black Death\n\nThe consequences of the Black Death are the short-term and long-term effects of the Black Death on human populations across the world. They include a series of various biological, social, economic, political and religious upheavals which had profound effects on the course of world history, especially European history. Often referred to as simply \"The Plague\", the Black Death was one of the most devastating pandemics in human history, peaking in Eurasia between 1331 and 1350 with an estimated one-third of the continent's population ultimately succumbing to the disease. Historians estimate that it reduced the total world population from 450 million to between 350 and 375 million. In most parts of Europe, it took nearly 80 years for population sizes to recover, and in some areas more than 150 years.\n\nFrom the perspective of many of the survivors, however, the effect of the plague may have been ultimately favorable, as the massive reduction of the workforce meant their labor was suddenly in higher demand. R.H. Hilton has argued that those English peasants who survived found their situation to be much improved. For many Europeans, the 15th century was a golden age of prosperity and new opportunities. The land was plentiful, wages high, and serfdom had all but disappeared. A century later, as population growth resumed, the lower classes again faced deprivation and famine.\nFigures for the death toll vary widely by area and from source to source, and estimates are frequently revised as historical research brings new discoveries to light. Most scholars estimate that the Black Death killed between 75 and 200 million people in the 14th century, at a time when the entire world population was still less than 500 million. Even where the historical record is considered reliable, only rough estimates of the total number of deaths from the plague are possible.\n\nEurope suffered an especially significant death toll from the plague. Modern estimates range between roughly one-third and one-half of the total European population in the five-year period of 1347 to 1351, during which the most severely affected areas may have lost up to 80 percent of the population.\nContemporary chronicler Jean Froissart, incidentally, estimated the toll to be one-third, which modern scholars consider less an accurate assessment than an allusion to the Book of Revelation meant to suggest the scope of the plague. Deaths were not evenly distributed across Europe, with some areas affected very little while others were all but entirely depopulated.\n\nThe Black Death hit the culture of towns and cities disproportionately hard, although rural areas (where most of the population lived at the time) were also significantly affected. Larger cities were the worst off, as population densities and close living quarters made disease transmission easier. Cities were also strikingly filthy, infested with lice, fleas, and rats, and subject to diseases caused by malnutrition and poor hygiene. Florence's population was reduced from 110,000–120,000 inhabitants in 1338 to 50,000 in 1351. Between 60 and 70 percent of Hamburg's and Bremen's populations died. In Provence, Dauphiné, and Normandy, historians observe a decrease of 60 percent of fiscal hearths. In some regions, two-thirds of the population was annihilated. In the town of Givry, in the Bourgogne region of France, the local friar, who used to note 28 to 29 funerals a year, recorded 649 deaths in 1348, half of them in September. About half of Perpignan's population died over the course of several months (only two of the eight physicians survived the plague). Over 60 percent of Norway's population died between 1348 and 1350. London may have lost two-thirds of its population during the 1348–49 outbreak; England as a whole may have lost 70 percent of its population, which declined from 7 million before the plague to 2 million in 1400.\n\nA few rural areas, especially in Eastern Poland and Lithuania, had such low populations and were so isolated that the plague made little progress there. Other places, including parts of Hungary, the Brabant region, Hainaut, and Limbourg (in modern Belgium), as well as Santiago de Compostela, were unaffected for unknown reasons. Some historians have assumed that the presence of resistant blood groups in the local population helped them resist infection, although these regions were touched by the second plague outbreak in 1360–63 (the \"little mortality\") and later during the numerous resurgences of the plague (in 1366–69, 1374–75, 1400, 1407, etc.). Other areas which escaped the plague were isolated in mountainous regions (e.g. the Pyrenees).\n\nAll social classes were affected, although the lower classes, living together in unhealthy places, were most vulnerable. Alfonso XI of Castile was the only European monarch to die of the plague, but Peter IV of Aragon lost his wife, his daughter, and a niece in six months. Joan of England, daughter of Edward III, died in Bordeaux on her way to Castile to marry Alfonso's son, Pedro. The Byzantine Emperor lost his son, while in the Kingdom of France, Joan of Navarre, daughter of Louis X \"le Hutin\" and Margaret of Burgundy, was killed by the plague, as well as Bonne of Luxembourg, the wife of the future John II of France.\n\nEstimates of the demographic effect of the plague in Asia are based on population figures during this time and estimates of the disease's toll on population centers. The most severe outbreak of plague in the Chinese province of Hubei in 1334 claimed up to 80 percent of the population. China had several epidemics and famines from 1200 to the 1350s and its population decreased from an estimated 125 million to 65 million in the late 14th century.\n\nThe precise demographic effect of the disease in the Middle East is very difficult to calculate. Mortality was particularly high in rural areas, including significant areas of Gaza and Syria. Many rural people fled, leaving their fields and crops, and entire rural provinces are recorded as being totally depopulated. Surviving records in some cities reveal a devastating number of deaths. The 1348 outbreak in Gaza left an estimated 10,000 people dead, while Aleppo recorded a death rate of 500 per day during the same year. In Damascus, at the disease's peak in September and October 1348, a thousand deaths were recorded every day, with overall mortality estimated at between 25 and 38 percent. Syria lost a total of 400,000 people by the time the epidemic subsided in March 1349. In contrast to some higher mortality estimates in Asia and Europe, scholars such as John Fields of Trinity College in Dublin believe the mortality rate in the Middle East was less than one-third of the total population, with higher rates in selected areas.\n\nBecause 14th-century healers were at a loss to explain the cause of the Black Death, many Europeans ascribed supernatural forces, earthquakes and malicious conspiracies, among other things, as possible reasons for the plague's emergence. No one in the 14th century considered rat control a way to ward off the plague, and people began to believe only God's anger could produce such horrific displays of suffering and death. Giovanni Boccaccio, an Italian writer and poet of the era, questioned whether it was sent by God for their correction, or that it came through the influence of the heavenly bodies. Christians accused Jews of poisoning public water supplies in an effort to ruin European civilization. The spreading of this rumor led to complete destruction of entire Jewish towns, and was simply caused by suspicion on part of the Christians, who noticed that the Jews had lost fewer lives to the plague due to their hygienic practices. In February 1349, 2,000 Jews were murdered in Strasbourg. In August of the same year, the Jewish communities of Mainz and Cologne were exterminated.\n\nWhere government authorities were concerned, most monarchs instituted measures that prohibited exports of foodstuffs, condemned black market speculators, set price controls on grain, and outlawed large-scale fishing. At best, they proved mostly unenforceable. At worst, they contributed to a continent-wide downward spiral. The hardest hit lands, like England, were unable to buy grain abroad from France because of the prohibition and from most of the rest of the grain producers because of crop failures from shortage of labour. Any grain that could be shipped was eventually taken by pirates or looters to be sold on the black market. Meanwhile, many of the largest countries, most notably England and Scotland, had been at war, using up much of their treasury and exacerbating inflation. In 1337, on the eve of the first wave of the Black Death, England and France went to war in what would become known as the Hundred Years' War. Malnutrition, poverty, disease and hunger, coupled with war, growing inflation and other economic concerns made Europe in the mid-14th century ripe for tragedy.\n\nEurope had been overpopulated before the plague, and a reduction of 30 to 50 percent of the population could have resulted in higher wages and more available land and food for peasants because of less competition for resources. Historian Walter Scheidel contends that waves of plague following the initial outbreak of the Black Death had a leveling effect that changed the ratio of land to labor, reducing the value of the former while boosting that of the latter, which lowered economic inequality by making landowners and employers less well off while improving the lot of the workers. He states that \"the observed improvement in living standards of the laboring population was rooted in the suffering and premature death of tens of millions over the course of several generations.\" This leveling effect was reversed by a \"demographic recovery that resulted in renewed population pressure.\" In 1357, a third of property in London was unused due to a severe outbreak in 1348–49. However, for reasons that are still debated, population levels declined after the Black Death's first outbreak until around 1420 and did not begin to rise again until 1470, so the initial Black Death event on its own does not entirely provide a satisfactory explanation to this extended period of decline in prosperity. See Medieval demography for a more complete treatment of this issue and current theories on why improvements in living standards took longer to evolve.\n\nThe great population loss brought favourable results to the surviving peasants in England and Western Europe. There was increased social mobility, as depopulation further eroded the peasants' already weakened obligations to remain on their traditional holdings. Seigneurialism never recovered. Land was plentiful, wages high, and serfdom had all but disappeared. It was possible to move about and rise higher in life. Younger sons and women especially benefited. As population growth resumed, however, the peasants again faced deprivation and famine.\n\nIn Eastern Europe, by contrast, renewed stringency of laws tied the remaining peasant population more tightly to the land than ever before through serfdom. Sparsely populated Eastern Europe was less affected by the Black Death and so peasant revolts were less common in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, not occurring in the east until the sixteenth through nineteenth centuries.\n\nFurthermore, the plague's great population reduction brought cheaper land prices, more food for the average peasant, and a relatively large increase in per capita income among the peasantry, if not immediately, in the coming century. Since the plague left vast areas of farmland untended, they were made available for pasture and put more meat on the market; the consumption of meat and dairy products went up, as did the export of beef and butter from the Low Countries, Scandinavia and northern Germany. However, the upper class often attempted to stop these changes, initially in Western Europe, and more forcefully and successfully in Eastern Europe, by instituting sumptuary laws. These regulated what people (particularly of the peasant class) could wear, so that nobles could ensure that peasants did not begin to dress and act as a higher class member with their increased wealth. Another tactic was to fix prices and wages so that peasants could not demand more with increasing value. In England, the Statute of Labourers 1351 was enforced, meaning no peasant could ask for more wages than in 1346. This was met with varying success depending on the amount of rebellion it inspired; such a law was one of the causes of the 1381 Peasants' Revolt in England.\n\nThe rapid development of the use was probably one of the consequences of the Black Death, during which many landowning nobility died, leaving their realty to their widows and minor orphans.\n\nIn the wake of the drastic population decline brought on by the plague, wages shot up and labourers could move to new localities in response to wage offers. Local and royal authorities in Western Europe instituted wage controls. These governmental controls sought to freeze wages at the old levels before the Black Death. Within England, for example, the Ordinance of Labourers, enacted in 1349, and the Statute of Labourers, enacted in 1351, restricted both wage increases and the relocation of workers. If workers attempted to leave their current post, employers were given the right to have them imprisoned. The Statute was poorly enforced in most areas, and farm wages in England on average doubled between 1350 and 1450, although they were static thereafter until the end of the 19th century.\n\nCohn, comparing numerous countries, argues that these laws were not primarily designed to freeze wages. Instead, he says the energetic local and royal measures to control labor and artisans' prices was a response to elite fears of the greed and possible new powers of lesser classes that had gained new freedom. Cohn says the laws reflect the anxiety that followed the Black Death's new horrors of mass mortality and destruction, and from elite anxiety about manifestations such as the flagellant movement and the persecution of Jews, Catalans, and beggars.\n\nBy 1200, virtually all of the Mediterranean basin and most of northern Germany had been deforested and cultivated. Indigenous flora and fauna were replaced by domestic grasses and animals and domestic woodlands were lost. With depopulation, this process was reversed. Much of the primeval vegetation returned, and abandoned fields and pastures were reforested.\n\nThe Black Death encouraged innovation of labour-saving technologies, leading to higher productivity. There was a shift from grain farming to animal husbandry. Grain farming was very labor-intensive, but animal husbandry needed only a shepherd and a few dogs and pastureland.\n\nPlague brought an eventual end of Serfdom in Western Europe. The manorial system was already in trouble, but the Black Death assured its demise throughout much of western and central Europe by 1500. Severe depopulation and migration of the village to cities caused an acute shortage of agricultural labourers. Many villages were abandoned. In England, more than 1300 villages were deserted between 1350 and 1500. Wages of labourers were high, but the rise in nominal wages following the Black Death was swamped by post-Plague inflation, so that real wages fell.\n\nLabor was in such a short supply that Lords were forced to give better terms of tenure. This resulted in much lower rents in western Europe. By 1500, a new form of tenure called copyhold became prevalent in Europe. In copyhold, both a Lord and peasant made their best business deal, whereby the peasant got use of the land and the Lord got a fixed annual payment and both possessed a copy of the tenure agreement. Serfdom did not end everywhere. It lingered in parts of Western Europe and was introduced to Eastern Europe after the Black Death.\n\nThere was change in the inheritance law. Before the plague, only sons and especially the elder son inherited the ancestral property. Post plague all sons as well as daughters started inheriting property.\n\nRenewed religious fervor and fanaticism came in the wake of the Black Death. Some Europeans targeted \"groups such as Jews, friars, foreigners, beggars, pilgrims\", lepers and Romani, thinking that they were to blame for the crisis.\n\nDifferences in cultural and lifestyle practices also led to persecution. As the plague swept across Europe in the mid-14th century, annihilating more than half the population, Jews were taken as scapegoats, in part because better hygiene among Jewish communities and isolation in the ghettos meant that Jews were less affected. Accusations spread that Jews had caused the disease by deliberately poisoning wells. European mobs attacked Jewish settlements across Europe; by 1351, 60 major and 150 smaller Jewish communities had been destroyed, and more than 350 separate massacres had occurred.\n\nAccording to Joseph P. Byrne, women also faced persecution during the Black Death. Muslim women in Cairo became scapegoats when the plague struck. Byrne writes that in 1438, the sultan of Cairo was informed by his religious lawyers that the arrival of the plague was Allah's punishment for the sin of fornication and that in accordance with this theory, a law was set in place stating that women were not allowed to make public appearances as they may tempt men into sin. Byrne describes that this law was only lifted when \"the wealthy complained that their female servants could not shop for food.\"\n\nThe Black Death hit the monasteries very hard because of their proximity with the sick who sought refuge there. This left a severe shortage of clergy after the epidemic cycle. Eventually the losses were replaced by hastily trained and inexperienced clergy members, many of whom knew little of the rigors of their predecessors. New colleges were opened at established universities, and the training process sped up. The shortage of priests opened new opportunities for laywomen to assume more extensive and more important service roles in the local parish.\nFlagellants practiced self-flogging (whipping of oneself) to atone for sins. The movement became popular after the Black Death. It may be that the flagellants' later involvement in hedonism was an effort to accelerate or absorb God's wrath, to shorten the time with which others suffered. More likely, the focus of attention and popularity of their cause contributed to a sense that the world itself was ending and that their individual actions were of no consequence.\n\nReformers rarely pointed to failures on the part of the Church in dealing with the catastrophe.\n\nThe Black Death had a profound effect on art and literature. After 1350, European culture in general turned very morbid. The general mood was one of pessimism, and contemporary art turned dark with representations of death. The widespread image of the \"dance of death\" showed death (a skeleton) choosing victims at random. Many of the most graphic depictions come from writers such as Boccaccio and Petrarch. Peire Lunel de Montech, writing about 1348 in the lyric style long out of fashion, composed the following sorrowful \"sirventes\" \"Meravilhar no·s devo pas las gens\" during the height of the plague in Toulouse:\n\nBoccaccio wrote:\n\nAlthough the Black Death highlighted the shortcomings of medical science in the medieval era, it also led to positive changes in the field of medicine. As described by David Herlihy in \"The Black Death and the Transformation of the West,\" more emphasis was placed on “anatomical investigations” following the Black Death. How individuals studied the human body notably changed, becoming a process that dealt more directly with the human body in varied states of sickness and health. Further, at this time, the importance of surgeons became more evident.\n\nA theory put forth by Stephen O'Brien says the Black Death is likely responsible, through natural selection, for the high frequency of the CCR5-Δ32 genetic defect in people of European descent. The gene affects T cell function and provides protection against HIV, smallpox, and possibly plague, though for the last, no explanation as to how it would do that exists. This, however, is now challenged, given that the CCR5-Δ32 gene has been found to be just as common in Bronze Age tissue samples.\n\nThe Black Death also inspired European architecture to move in two different directions: (1) a revival of Greco-Roman styles, and (2) a further elaboration of the Gothic style. Late medieval churches had impressive structures centred on verticality, where one's eye is drawn up towards the high ceiling. The basic Gothic style was revamped with elaborate decoration in the late medieval period. Sculptors in Italian city-states emulated the work of their Roman forefathers while sculptors in northern Europe, no doubt inspired by the devastation they had witnessed, gave way to a heightened expression of emotion and an emphasis on individual differences. A tough realism came forth in architecture as in literature. Images of intense sorrow, decaying corpses, and individuals with faults as well as virtues emerged. North of the Alps, painting reached a pinnacle of precise realism with Early Dutch painting by artists such as Jan van Eyck (c. 1390– by 1441). The natural world was reproduced in these works with meticulous detail whose realism was not unlike photography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11335959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11335959", "title": "Duck-baiting", "text": "Duck-baiting\n\nDuck-baiting is a blood sport involving the baiting of ducks.\n\nDuck-baiting involved releasing a pinioned duck on to a pond. The dog dived into the pond coursing the duck, which was unable to fly. A spectacular diving exhibition ensued, as the duck dived the dog dived to pursue. Inevitably, the dog could not match the duck's speed underwater and would surface in rage. Spectators would gamble and joined in the noise to encourage their animal of choice. Those who backed the dog might throw stones at the duck in an attempt to disable it, which caused fights among the spectators. The dogs would take turns catching the duck. Prizes would be awarded to the dogs that caught the duck in the least amount of time.\n\nStrutt's \"Sports and Pastimes\" says of duck-baiting:\n\nIt was a favourite spectator sport for Charles II of England.\n\nDuck-baiting events were held in and around London. Rural inns, with names like \"Dog and Duck, St George's Fields\", located in St George's Fields, Brixton, Hampstead, Dulwich, Stamford Hill, Tottenham, Stoke-on-Trent, Newington and Tooting had ponds where the baiting took place. On the weekends, families, friends and their fighting dogs would frequent these locations.\n\nThe rowdy assemblies associated with the activity caused public alarm. Duck-baiting declined in the late nineteenth century, and eventually ceased altogether due to rioting and damage incurred to the inns.\n\n"}
{"id": "54965270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54965270", "title": "Estonian restoration of Independence", "text": "Estonian restoration of Independence\n\nEstonian Restoration of Independence (juridically defined as the Restoration of the Republic of Estonia) is celebrated on the 20th of August as on that day, in 1991 at 11:02 pm local time, the Estonian Supreme Soviet, in agreement with the Estonian Committee (the executive organ of the Estonian Congress) proclaimed Estonian independence from the Soviet Union. August 20 is a public holiday in Estonia.\n\nThe August Coup or August Putsch lasted between 19–22 August 1991 and was an attempt by members of the Soviet Union’s government to take control of the country from the Soviet President and General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev.\n\nAs the coup attempt was taking place in Moscow and with that the military and political attention of the Soviet Union otherwise occupied, various republics of the Soviet Union took the opportunity to declare their independence. On the evening of the 19th of August, delegates from the Estonian Supreme Soviet and the Estonian Committee started negotiations to declare the independence of the Republic of Estonia. The main debate was a crucial one: should Estonia declare independence as a new Republic or continue with the juridical continuation of the Republic of Estonia established in 1918 and occupied in 1940.\n\nAt 11:02 pm on the evening of August 20, 1991, during a live broadcast carried out by Estonian Television, the Estonian Supreme Soviet voted on the declaration of its Restoration of Independence. Out of the 105 delegates of the Estonian Supreme Soviet 70 were present, 69 voted in favour of the restoration. Two delegates, Klavdia Sergij and Kaido Kama, did not register to vote and walked out before voting began. Those who voted in favour of the restoration were:\n\nOn the morning of August 21, 1991, Soviet paratroopers were taking charge of the Tallinn’s TV tower, while the television broadcast was cut off for a while, the radio signal was strong as a handful of Estonian Defence League (the unified paramilitary armed forces of Estonia) members barricaded the entry into signal rooms.\nBy the afternoon of the same day it was clear that the coup in Moscow had failed and the paratroopers released the tower and left Estonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "47632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47632", "title": "Falles", "text": "Falles\n\nThe Falles (, sing. \"Falla\"; ) is a traditional celebration held in commemoration of Saint Joseph in the city of Valencia, Spain. The term \"Falles\" refers to both the celebration and the monuments burnt during the celebration. A number of towns in the Valencian Community have similar celebrations inspired by the original Falles de València celebration. The Falles festival was added to UNESCO's intangible cultural heritage of humanity list on 30 November 2016.\n\nEach neighbourhood of the city has an organised group of people, the \"Casal faller\", that works all year long holding fundraising parties and dinners, usually featuring the noted dish, paella, a specialty of the region. Each \"casal faller\" produces a construction known as a \"falla\" which is eventually burnt. A \"casal faller\" is also known as a \"comissió fallera\" and currently there are approximately 400 registered in Valencia.\n\nThe name of the festival is the plural of the Valencian word \"falla\". The word's derivation is as follows:\n\nFormerly, much time would be spent by the \"casal faller\" preparing the \"ninots\" (Valencian for puppets or dolls). During the four days leading up to 19 March, each group takes its \"ninot\" out for a grand parade, and then mounts it, each on its own elaborate firecracker-filled cardboard and paper-mâché artistic monument in a street of the given neighbourhood. This whole assembly is a \"falla\".\n\nThe \"ninots\" and their \"falles\" are constructed according to an agreed-upon theme that has traditionally been a satirical jab at whatever draws the attention of the \"fallers\" (the registered participants of the \"casals\"). In modern times, the two-week-long festival has spawned a substantial local industry, to the point that an entire suburban area has been designated the \"Ciutat fallera\" (Falles City). Here, crews of artists and artisans, sculptors, painters, and other craftsmen, all spend months producing elaborate constructions of paper and wax, wood and polystyrene foam tableaux towering up to five stories, composed of fanciful figures, often caricatures, in provocative poses arranged in a gravity-defying manner. Each of them is produced under the direction of one of the many individual neighbourhood \"casals fallers\" who vie with each other to attract the best artists, and then to create the most outrageous allegorical monument to their target. There are about 750 of these neighbourhood associations in Valencia, with over 200,000 members, or a quarter of the city's population.\n\nDuring Falles, many people wear their \"casal faller\" dress of regional and historical costumes from different eras of València's history. The \"dolçaina\" (an oboe-like reed instrument) and \"tabalet\" (a kind of Valencian drum) are frequently heard, as most of the different casals fallers have their own traditional bands.\n\nAlthough the \"Falles\" is a very traditional event and many participants dress in medieval clothing, the \"ninots\" for 2005 included such modern characters as Shrek and George W. Bush, and the 2012 \"Falles\" included characters like Barack Obama and Lady Gaga.\n\nThe five days and nights of \"Falles\" might be described as a continuous street party. There are a multitude of processions: historical, religious, and comedic. Crowds in the restaurants spill out into the streets. Explosions can be heard all day long and sporadically through the night. Everyone from small children to elderly people can be seen throwing fireworks and noisemakers in the streets, which are littered with pyrotechnical debris. The timing of the events is fixed, and they fall on the same date every year, though there has been discussion about holding some events on the weekend preceding the Falles, to take greater advantage of the tourist potential of the festival or changing the end date in years where it is due to occur in midweek.\n\nEach day of Falles begins at 8:00 am with \"La Despertà\" (\"the wake-up call\"). Brass bands appear from the casals and begin to march down every street playing lively music. Close behind them are the \"fallers\", throwing large firecrackers in the street as they go.\n\nThe \"Mascletà\", an explosive barrage of coordinated firecracker and fireworks displays, takes place at 2:00 pm every day of the festival; the main event is the municipal Mascletà in the \"Plaça de l'Ajuntament\" where the pyrotechnicians compete for the honour of providing the final Mascletà of the \"festes\" (on 19 March). At 2:00 pm the clock chimes and the Fallera Major, dressed in her \"fallera\" finery, will call from the balcony of City Hall, \"Senyor/a pirotècnic/a, pot començar la mascletà!\" (\"Mr./Ms. Pyrotechnic, you may commence the Mascletà!\"), and the Mascletà begins.\n\nThe Mascletà is almost unique to the Valencian Community, and very popular with the Valencian people. Smaller neighbourhoods often hold their own mascletà for saint's days, weddings and other celebrations.\n\nA nighttime variant runs in the evening hours by the same pyrotechnicans that were present in the afternoon.\n\nOn the day of the 15th, all of the \"falles\" infantils are to be finished being constructed, and later that night all of the \"falles majors\" (big Falles) are to be completed. If not, they face disqualification.\n\nIn this event, the flower offering, each of the casals fallers takes an offering of flowers to the Virgin Mary as \"Our Lady of the Forsaken.\" This occurs all day during 17–18 March. A statue of the Virgin Mary and its large pedestal are then covered with all the flowers.\n\nOn the nights of the 15, 16, 17, and 18th there are firework displays in the old riverbed in València. Each night is progressively grander and the last is called \"La Nit del Foc\" (the Night of Fire).\nOn the final evening of Falles, at 7:00 pm on March 19, a parade known in Valencian as the \"Cavalcada del Foc\" (the Fire Parade) takes place along Colon street and Porta de la Mar square. This spectacular celebration of fire, the symbol of the fiesta’s spirit, is the \"grand finale\" of Falles and a colourful, noisy event featuring exhibitions of the varied rites and displays from around the world which use fire; it incorporates floats, giant mechanisms, people in costumes, rockets, gunpowder, street performances and music.\n\nOn the final night of Falles, around midnight on March 19, these \"falles\" are burnt as huge bonfires. This is known as \"La Cremà\" (the Burning), the climax of the whole event, and the reason why the constructions are called \"falles\" (\"torches\"). Traditionally, the falla in the \"Plaça de l'Ajuntament\" is burned last.\n\nAll \"casals\" have a \"falla infantil\" (a children's \"falla\", smaller and without satirical themes), which is held a few metres away from the main one. This is burnt first, at 10:00 pm. The main neighbourhood \"falles\" are burnt closer to midnight; the burning of the \"falles\" in the city centre often starts later. For example, in 2005, the fire brigade delayed the burning of the Egyptian funeral \"falla\" in \"Carrer del Convent de Jerusalem\" until 1:30 am, when they were sure all safety concerns were addressed.\n\nEach \"falla\" is laden with fireworks which are lit first. The construction itself is lit either after or during the explosion of these fireworks. \"Falles\" burn quite quickly, and the heat given off is felt by all around. The heat from the larger ones often drives the crowd back a couple of metres, even though they are already behind barriers that the fire brigade has set several metres from the construction. In narrower streets, the heat scorches the surrounding buildings, and the firemen douse the fronteres, window blinds, street signs, etc. with their hoses to stop them catching fire or melting, from the beginning of the \"cremà\" until it cools down.\n\nAway from the \"falles\", people frolic in the streets, the whole city resembling an open-air dance party, except that instead of music there is the incessant (and occasionally deafening) sound of people throwing fireworks around randomly. There are many stalls selling trinkets and snacks such as the typical fried \"porres\", \"churros\" and \"bunyols\", as well as roasted chestnuts.\n\nWhile the smaller fallas dotted around the streets are burned at approximately the same time, the last falla to be burned is the main one, which is saved until last so that everybody can watch it. This main falla is found outside the \"Ajuntament\" – the town hall. People arrive a few hours before the scheduled burning time to get a front row view.\n\nThere are different conjectures regarding the origin of the Falles festival. One suggests that the Falles started in the Middle Ages, when artisans disposed of the broken artefacts and pieces of wood they saved during the winter by burning them to celebrate the spring equinox. Valencian carpenters used planks of wood called \"parots\" to hang their candles on during the winter, as these were needed to provide light to work by. With the coming of the spring, they were no longer necessary, so they were burned. Over time, and with the intervention of the Church, the date of the burning of these \"parots\" was made to coincide with the celebration of the festival of Saint Joseph, the patron saint of carpenters.\n\nThis tradition continued to evolve. The \"parot\" was dressed with clothing so that it looked like a person; features identifiable with some well-known person from the neighbourhood were often added as well. To collect these materials, children went from house to house asking for \"una estoreta velleta\" (an old rug) to add to the \"parot\". This became a popular song that the children sang as they gathered all sorts of old flammable furniture and utensils to burn in the bonfire with the \"parot\". These \"parots\" were the first \"ninots\". Over the years, people of the neighbourhoods began to organise the building of the \"falles\", and thus the typically intricate constructions, including their various figures, were born.\n\nUntil the beginning of the 20th century, the \"falles\" were tall boxes with three or four wax dolls dressed in fabric clothing. This changed when the creators began to use cardboard. The fabrication of the \"falles\" continues to evolve in modern times, when the largest displays are made of polystyrene and soft cork easily molded with hot saws. These techniques have allowed the creation of \"falles\" over 30 metres high.\n\nThe origin of the pagan festival is similar to that of the Bonfires of Saint John celebrated in the Alacant region, in the sense that both came from the Latin custom of lighting fires to welcome spring. In València, this ancient tradition led to the burning of accumulated waste, particularly wood, at the end of winter on the feast day of Saint Joseph. Given the reputed humorous character of Valencians, it was natural that the people began to burn figurines depicting persons and events of the past year. The burning symbolised liberation from living in servitude to the memory of these events or else represented humorous and often critical commentary on them. The festival thus evolved a more satirical and ironic character, and the wooden castoffs gradually came to be assembled into progressively more elaborate 'monuments' that were designed and painted in advance.\n\nIn the early 20th century, and especially during the Spanish Civil War, the monuments became more anti-clerical in nature and were often highly critical of the local or national governments, which tried to ban the Falles many times, without success. Under the dictatorship of Francisco Franco the celebration lost much of its satirical nature because of government censorship, but the monuments were among the few fervent public expressions allowed then, and they could be made freely in València. During this period, many religious customs such as the offering of flowers to \"Mare de Déu dels Desamparats\" (Our Lady of the Forsaken) were taken up, which today are essential parts of the festival, even though they were unrelated to the original purpose of the celebration.\n\nWith the restoration of democracy and the end of government censorship, the critical \"falles\" reappeared, and obscene satirical ones with them. Despite thirty years of freedom of expression, the world view of the \"fallero\" can still be socially conservative, is often sexist and may involve some of the amoralism of Valencian politics. This has sometimes led to criticism by certain cultural critics, environmentalists, and progressives. Yet there are celebrants of all ideologies and factions, and they have different interpretations of the spirit of the celebration. Although recent initiatives such as the pilota championships, literary competitions and other events have broadened its cultural expression, the city still embraces such ancient traditions to express its own singular identity.\n\nThe Secció Especial is a group of the largest and most prestigious \"falles\" commissions in the city of Valencia. In 2007, the group consisted of 14 commissions. This class of \"falles\" was first started in 1942 and originally included the \"falles\" of Barques, Reina-Pau and Plaça del Mercat. Currently, none of these are still in the group. The commission that has most often participated in this group as of 2015 was Na Jordana, with 62 times. The Secció Especial awards the prizes with the exception of the one awarded by the town hall; winning the first prize in the Secció Especial is the most prestigious prize any falla can win. All other \"falles\" fall into different classes (18 as of 2017) determined by the amount of money invested in each \"falla\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56397920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56397920", "title": "Farewell Yellow Brick Road", "text": "Farewell Yellow Brick Road\n\nFarewell Yellow Brick Road is an ongoing tour by British musician Elton John. It began in Allentown, Pennsylvania on 8 September 2018. The tour will consist of more than 300 concerts worldwide.\n\nOn 24 January 2018, it was announced that John would be retiring from touring and would soon embark on a three-year tour. The first concert was announced to take place at the PPL Center in Allentown, Pennsylvania on 8 September 2018 followed by an extensive tour of the United States and Canada before moving on to Europe. John cited spending time with his children as the reason for his retirement.\n\nOn May 30, 2018, it was announced that Elton had partnered with \"Peex\" to personalize the volume for fans concert experiences plus recording the show to relive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "129295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129295", "title": "Fatal Attraction", "text": "Fatal Attraction\n\nFatal Attraction is a 1987 American psychological erotic thriller film directed by Adrian Lyne from a screenplay written by James Dearden, based on his 1980 short film \"Diversion\". Starring Michael Douglas, Glenn Close and Anne Archer, the film centers on a married man who has a weekend affair with a woman who refuses to allow it to end and becomes obsessed with him.\n\n\"Fatal Attraction\" was released on September 18, 1987 by Paramount Pictures. It received generally positive critical response and generated controversy at the time of its release. The film became a huge box office success, grossing $320.1 million against a $14 million budget, becoming the highest grossing film of 1987 worldwide.\n\nAt the 60th Academy Awards, it received six nominations: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actress (for Close), Best Supporting Actress (for Archer), Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Film Editing.\n\nDan Gallagher is a successful, happily married Manhattan lawyer whose work leads him to meet Alexandra \"Alex\" Forrest, an editor for a publishing company. While his wife, Beth, and daughter, Ellen, are out of town for the weekend, Dan has an affair with Alex. Though it was initially understood by both as just a fling, Alex starts clinging to him.\n\nDan spends a second unplanned evening with Alex after she persistently asks him over. When Dan tries to leave, she cuts her wrists in a suicide attempt. He helps her bandage the cuts and then leaves. He thinks the affair is forgotten, but she shows up at various places to see him. She waits at his office one day to apologize and invites him to a performance of \"Madame Butterfly\", but he politely turns her down. She then continues to call him until he tells his secretary that he will no longer take her calls. Alex then phones his home at all hours, claiming that she is pregnant and plans to keep the baby. Although he wants nothing to do with her, she argues that he must take responsibility. After he changes his home phone number, she shows up at his apartment (which is for sale) and meets Beth, feigning interest as a buyer. Later that night, Dan goes to Alex's apartment to confront her, which results in a scuffle. In response, she replies that she will not be ignored.\n\nDan moves his family to Bedford, but this does not deter Alex. She has a tape recording delivered to him filled with verbal abuse. She stalks him in a parking garage, pours acid on his car, and follows him home one night to spy on him, Beth, and Ellen from the bushes in their yard; the sight of their content family literally makes her sick to her stomach. Her obsession escalates further when Dan approaches the police to apply for a restraining order against Alex (claiming that it is \"for a client\"). The lieutenant claims that he cannot violate her rights without probable cause, and that the \"client\" has to own up to his adultery.\n\nAt one point, while the Gallaghers are not home, Alex kills Ellen's pet rabbit, and puts it on their stove to boil. After this, Dan tells Beth of the affair and Alex's supposed pregnancy. Enraged, she demands that Dan leave. Before he goes, Dan calls Alex to tell her that Beth knows about the affair. Beth gets on the phone and warns Alex that she will kill her if she persists. Without Dan and Beth's knowledge, Alex picks up Ellen from school and takes her to an amusement park. Beth panics when she realizes that she does not know where Ellen is. She drives around frantically searching and rear-ends a car stopped at an intersection. Beth gets injured and is then hospitalized. Alex later takes Ellen home, asking her for a kiss on the cheek. Following Beth's release from the hospital, she forgives Dan and they return home.\n\nDan barges into Alex's apartment and attacks her, choking her and coming close to strangling her. He stops himself, but as he does, she lunges at him with a kitchen knife. He overpowers her but decides to put the knife down and leave, while Alex is leaning against the kitchen counter, smiling. The police begin to search for her after Dan confronts them about having her arrested.\n\nBeth prepares a bath for herself when Alex suddenly appears, again with the kitchen knife. She starts to explain her resentment of Beth, nervously fidgeting (which causes Alex to cut her own leg) and then attacks Beth. Dan hears the screaming, rushes in, wrestles Alex into the bathtub, and seemingly drowns her. She suddenly emerges from the water, swinging the knife. Beth, who went searching for Dan's gun, shoots Alex in the chest, killing her. The final scene shows police cars outside the Gallaghers' house. As Dan finishes delivering his statement to the police, he walks inside, where Beth is waiting for him. They embrace and proceed to the living room as the camera focuses on a picture of them and Ellen.\n\nThe film was adapted by James Dearden (with some help from Nicholas Meyer) from \"Diversion\", an earlier 1980 short film by Dearden for British television. In Meyer's book \"The View from the Bridge: Memories of Star Trek and a Life in Hollywood\", he explains that in late 1986 producer Stanley R. Jaffe asked him to look at the script developed by Dearden, and he wrote a four-page memo making suggestions for the script including a new ending for the movie. A few weeks later he met with director Adrian Lyne and gave him some additional suggestions. Ultimately Meyer was asked to redraft the script on the basis of his suggestions, which ended up being the shooting script.\n\nProducers Sherry Lansing and Stanley Jaffe both had serious doubts about casting Glenn Close because they didn't think she could be sexual enough for the role of Alex. Close was persistent, so that after meeting with Jaffe several times in New York, she was asked to fly out to Los Angeles to read with Michael Douglas in front of Adrian Lyne and Lansing. Before the audition, she let her naturally frizzy hair \"go wild\" because she was impatient at putting it up, and she wore a slimming black dress she thought made her look \"fabulous\" to audition. This impressed Lansing, because Close \"came in looking completely different...right away she was into the part.\" Close and Douglas performed a scene from early in the script, where Alex flirts with Dan in a café, and Close came away \"convinced my career was over, that I was finished, I had completely blown my chances.\" Lansing and Lyne, however, were both convinced that she was right for the role; Lyne stated that \"an extraordinary erotic transformation took place. She was this tragic, bewildering mix of sexuality and rage—I watched Alex come to life.”\n\nTo prepare for her role, Glenn Close consulted several psychologists, hoping to understand Alex's psyche and motivations. She was uncomfortable with the bunny boiling scene, which she thought was too extreme, but she was assured on consulting the psychologists that such an action was entirely possible and that Alex's behavior corresponded to someone who had experienced incestual sexual abuse as a child.\n\nAlex Forrest was originally scripted slashing her throat at the film's end with the knife Dan had left on the counter, so as to make it appear that Dan had murdered her. After seeing her husband being taken away by police, Beth finds a revealing cassette tape that Alex sent Dan in which she threatens to kill herself. Upon realizing Alex's intentions, Beth takes the tape to the police, which acquits Dan of the murder. The last scene shows, in flashback, Alex taking her own life by slashing her throat while listening to \"Madame Butterfly\".\n\nAfter doing test screenings, Joseph Farrell (who handled the test screenings) suggested Paramount to reshoot a new ending. Alex was killed by a gunshot during the three-week reshoot of the action scene. Alex's murder by Beth juxtaposes the relationship between the two characters; with Alex being victimized and Beth violently protecting her family.\n\nIn the 2002 Special Edition DVD, Close comments that she had doubts about re-shooting the film's ending because she believed the character would \"self-destruct and commit suicide\". Close eventually gave in on her concerns, and filmed the new sequence after having fought against the change for two weeks. Close has described how protective she was of her character, whom she \"never thought of as a villain\", stating that: \"I wasn't playing a generality, I wasn't playing a cliché. I was playing a very specific, deeply disturbed, fragile human being, whom I had grown to love.\" However, though the ending made Alex into a \"psychopath\" against Close's wishes, she has also acknowledged that the film would not have experienced the enormous success it did without the new ending, because it gave the audience \"...a sense of catharsis, a hope, that somehow the family unit would survive the nightmare.\" \n\nThe film was initially released in Japan with the original ending. The original ending also appeared on a special edition VHS and LaserDisc release by Paramount in 1992, and was included on the film's DVD release a decade later.\n\nIn the earlier phase of the film, when it was under the title \"Diversion\", Alex committed suicide in the end. After showing this version to a test audience, they felt this was not a good enough way for Alex to go. Instead, the producers decided to shoot the last scene as a more vengeful and violent death for Alex. Close has spoken of the decision to change the ending as \"a terrible betrayal of the character that I created...I desperately wanted to remind the audience that this character was more self-destructive than destructive.\"\n\nAfter spending $1.3 million, Alex's death and Beth's survival was determined to be the official ending of the film. However, this presented a more traditionalist message to the audience. This new ending gave the idea that a professional woman and a wife/mother are two very divided choices. With Alex being shot by Beth, in the official ending of the film, this is viewed as death to the bad woman (a career woman), and a win for the good woman (a wife/mother). Close insisted on adding the shot in the confrontation scene where Alex mutilates her own leg with a kitchen knife to show that she was \"as self-destructive as she was aggressive\". However, according to Close, \"the image of Alex wielding that knife was too horrifying for any subtle nuance, and it transformed her into a psychopath as a result. And she became the most hated woman in America.\"\n\nAfter its release, \"Fatal Attraction\" engendered much discussion of the potential consequences of infidelity. Some feminists, meanwhile, did not appreciate what they felt was the depiction of a strong career woman who is at the same time psychopathic. Feminist Susan Faludi discussed the film in \"\", arguing that major changes had been made to the original plot in order to make Alex wholly negative, while Dan's carelessness and the lack of compassion and responsibility raised no discussion, except for a small number of fundamentalist men's groups who said that Dan was eventually forced to own up to his irresponsibility in that \"everyone pays the piper\".\n\nFeminist scholars have also stated that in many ways the film has used its correlation of career woman to psychopathy in order to create its horror element. As described by Deborah Jermyn, the use of the \"monstrous-feminine\" as a tool in the 1980s horror genre was a way to portray a man's worst fears', where a woman has rejected familial values and reverted to hysteria, questioning the true values of woman and what it means to be feminine. There are also many ways that Alex (Close) portrays womanhood in a more traditional light, with the character befriending her lover's wife and drinking tea in their home, while contrastingly, his wife slowly turns more assertive and violent. The fluidity of these female characters' monstrous and fearful tendencies is what makes the \"fear\" more real, according to feminist study. The fact that a woman who rejects traditional womanhood for a more career-based lifestyle can swap in just a matter of moments to the \"housewife\", and vice-versa provides the horror that this movie begs. Women feared both becoming this career-driven \"monster\" and being the oblivious housewife, while men feared that their companion could in fact be both of these things at once.\n\nThe film has left an indelible impression on male viewers. Close was quoted in 2008 as saying, \"Men still come up to me and say, 'You scared the shit out of me.' Sometimes they say, 'You saved my marriage.'\"\n\nThe film spent eight weeks at #1 in the U.S. and eventually grossed $156.6 million domestically, making the film the second-highest-grossing film of 1987 in the U.S. behind \"Three Men and a Baby\". It also grossed $163.5 million overseas for a total gross of $320.1 million, making it the biggest film of 1987 worldwide. This in turn led to several similarly-themed psychological thrillers being made throughout the late 1980s and 1990s.\n\nOverall, the film received positive reviews from critics. Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a rating of 78% based on reviews from 46 critics, with the site's consensus \"A potboiler in the finest sense, \"Fatal Attraction\" is a sultry, juicy thriller that's hard to look away from once it gets going.\"\nOn Metacritic, the film has a rating of 67/100 based on reviews from 16 critics.\n\nThe character of Alex Forrest has been discussed by psychiatrists and film experts, and has been used as a film illustration for the condition borderline personality disorder. The character displays the behaviors of impulsivity, emotional lability, frantic efforts to avoid abandonment, frequent severe anger, self-harming, and changing from idealization to devaluation; these traits are consistent with the diagnosis, although generally aggression to the self rather than others is a more common feature in borderline personality disorder. Some have instead considered the character to be a psychopath.\n\nAs referenced in Orit Kamirs' \"Every Breath You Take: Stalking Narratives and the Law\", \"Glenn Close's character Alex is quite deliberately made to be an erotomaniac. Gelder reports that Glenn Close 'consulted three separate shrinks for an inner profile of her character, who is meant to be suffering from a form of obsessive condition known as de Clérambault's syndrome' (Gelder 1990, 93—94)\".\n\nThe popular term \"bunny boiler\", often used to describe an obsessive, spurned woman, derives from the scene where it is discovered that Alex has boiled the pet rabbit.\n\nAs Alex Forrest is portrayed as a psychotic, love-obsessed woman seeking revenge, behaviors that represent stalking are present. According to a study of 148 people conducted by Randy and Lori Sansone, over half of the people who were found guilty of stalking-related incidents also experienced borderline personality disorder among other mental health concerns. It can be noted that Alex Forrest's femininity was seen as toxic and fearful to the people in the film that she interacted with, which is a crucial representation of women as possessive and psychotic when it comes to dominance over a man. People who experience borderline personality disorder can also have higher risks of issues like bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.\n\nFurther, most stalking situations occur from people who were previously involved in relationships with the person who is being stalked, according to research by Spitzberg and Vekslet. In the case of Alex Forrest, her obsession was for a man that she could not have due to other circumstances in his life. These circumstances, Beth and Ellen, are his family, and though Alex and Dan did not have a deep or meaningful relationship, Alex's clinginess caused assumptions of mental health issues.\n\nAlex's representation of poor mental health in this film shows exactly the clinginess and attachment that people with stalking behaviors present. Slitting her wrists and pretending to be pregnant are manipulative techniques that someone with a personality and attachment disorder would use to regain the desired intimacy with a former partner. Women tend to stalk former partners as well as the women associated with those former partners, much like one can see in the 1992 film \"Single White Female\".\n\nAmerican Film Institute recognition\n\nA Special Collector's Edition of the film was released on DVD in 2005. Paramount released \"Fatal Attraction\" on Blu-ray Disc on June 9, 2009. The Blu-ray release contained several bonus features from the 2005 DVD, including commentary by director Adrian Lyne, cast and crew interviews, a look at the film's cultural phenomenon, a behind-the-scenes look, rehearsal footage, the alternative ending, and the original theatrical trailer.\n\nA play based on the movie opened in London's West End at the Theatre Royal Haymarket in March 2014. It was adapted by the movie's original screenwriter James Dearden.\n\nOn July 2, 2015, Fox announced that a TV series based on the film is being developed by \"Mad Men\" writers Maria and Andre Jacquemetton. On January 13, 2017, it was announced that the project was canceled.\n\n"}
{"id": "8215394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8215394", "title": "Fern spike", "text": "Fern spike\n\nIn paleontology, a fern spike is the occurrence of abundant fern spores in the fossil record, usually immediately (in a geological sense) after an extinction event. The spikes are believed to represent a large, temporary increase in the number of ferns relative to other terrestrial plants after the extinction or thinning of the latter, probably because fern dispersal is more rapid over large geographic areas, since single-celled fern spores are more easily distributed by the wind than are seeds. Fern spikes are most associated with the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, although they have been found at other events such as at the Triassic-Jurassic boundary. Away from the fossil record, fern spikes have also been observed to occur in response to local extinction events, for instance the 1980 Mount St. Helens eruption.\n"}
{"id": "605866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=605866", "title": "Gilbertine Order", "text": "Gilbertine Order\n\nThe Gilbertine Order of Canons Regular was founded around 1130 by Saint Gilbert in Sempringham, Lincolnshire, where Gilbert was the parish priest. It was the only completely English religious order and came to an end in the 16th century at the time of the Dissolution of the Monasteries. Modest Gilbertine revivals have taken place in the late 20th and early 21st centuries on three continents.\n\nGilbert initially established a community for enclosed contemplative nuns. He accepted seven women whom he had taught in the village school and in 1131 founded an order of nuns based on the Cistercian Rule. Gilbert set up buildings and a cloister for them against the north wall of the church, which stood on his land at Sempringham, and gave them a rule of life, enjoining upon them chastity, humility, obedience, and charity. Their daily necessaries were passed to them through a window by some girls chosen by Gilbert from among his people.\n\nAs the serving maids requested that they too might have a dress and rule of life, on the advice of William, abbot of Rievaulx, he decided to add lay sisters to the community. Eventually Gilbert added lay brothers to work the fields. In 1139 the small order opened its first new foundation on the island of Haverholm, a gift from Alexander, Bishop of Lincoln. Each Gilbertine house now practically consisted of four communities, one of nuns, one of canons, one of lay sisters, and one of lay brothers. Over the years, more and more new foundations were established.\n\nIn 1147 he left England for Continental Europe to seek assistance, and approached the Cistercian Order at its major house in Cîteaux to take on the running of his foundations. The Cistercians declined, apparently because they felt unable to administer houses for both men and women, but Pope Eugene III, himself a Cistercian, intervened to ask the abbot, Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, to assist Gilbert in drawing up Institutes for a new Order, which combined Benedictine and Cistercian influences. Pope Eugene then appointed Gilbert as the first Master of the Order of Sempringham or Gilbertines. Gilbert returned to England in 1148, and completed the order, by appointing canons, who lived according to variant of the Augustinian rule, to serve his community as priests, and to help him in the work of administration.\n\nThe Nuns wore a black tunic and a black scapular for work. They also wore a black lamb's wool head-dress with a coarse black cloth veil.\n\nThe Sisters wore a dark tunic without the scapular. They also wore a sheepskin cloak and a long hood.\n\nThe Canons Regular wore a black cassock with a white hooded cloak (lined with lamb's wool) with shoes of red leather. When labouring, they would use the scapular. In choir, they wore white copes. \n\nThe Brothers wore a dark tunic with a dark cloak lined with rough skins. They wore a cloth cope to the heels to wear in the Church.\n\nEach Gilbertine priory had one church, divided unequally by a wall. The nuns had the larger part, and the canons the smaller. The latter would join the nuns only to celebrate mass. From the church, the nunnery normally stood to the north and the canons' lodgings to the south.\n\nIn the mid-twelfth century, a girl was brought to Watton Priory as a child, but had no real religious vocation. This Nun of Watton became pregnant by a lay brother, who fled, but he was brought back for punishment.\n\nTowards the end of Gilbert's life, when he was around 90 years old, some of the lay brothers at Sempringham rose up against him, complaining of too much work and too little food. The rebels, led by two skilled craftsmen, received money from both religious and secular supporters and took their case to Rome. Pope Alexander III ruled in Gilbert's favour, but the living conditions of the lay brothers were improved thereafter.\n\nThe Gilbertine order was always popular in England and Wales. Its houses were the final homes of the last of the Welsh royal family, young daughters, after the rest had been defeated and killed in the 1280s. Principal among these was Gwenllian who was sent to Sempringham Priory and a monument commemorating her was placed near the Priory site in the 1990s. Many English kings gave the order generous charters, and yet it always had financial problems. By the end of the 15th century, the Order was greatly impoverished, and King Henry VI exempted all of its houses from paying taxes and from any other sort of payment. He could not force his successors to do the same.\n\nBy the time of the Dissolution, there were twenty-six houses of Gilbertines, but only four of these were ranked as \"greater houses\", having annual incomes above £200. Following the Dissolution of the Lesser Monasteries Act of 1536, these houses gave in to King Henry VIII in 1538 without a fight, surrendering \"of their own free will\". Each nun and canon then received a pension for the rest of their lives. \n\nThe last Master of the Order, Robert Holgate is credited with using his influence to save them for a few years. Malton Priory, one of the lesser Gilbertine houses, was the last to surrender in December 1539, whereas Sempringham Priory, worth more than £200 a year, surrendered in 1538. Holgate was already the Bishop of Llandaff but translated to become Archbishop of York in 1545.\n\nThe Gilbertines were the only purely English order (except for one house in Scotland), therefore the Dissolution marked their permanent end.\n\nThe Gilbertine legacy is fairly small; only fifteen extant manuscripts are associated with the Order, originating from only five of the Gilbertine houses. Four additional works ascribed to Gilbertines, but not surviving in Gilbertine copies, include the \"Vita\" of Gilbert of Sempringham, the Gilbertine Rule, the so-called 'Sempringham Continuation' to \"Le Livere de Reis Engleterre\", and the works of Robert Mannyng.\n\nThe remains of one Gilbertine monastery, Malton Priory, have been incorporated into the parish church at Malton in North Yorkshire. The original monastery was established around 1150, and, though it has suffered considerable abuse, the surviving fragment remains impressive. Although the Priory at Sempringham was destroyed, the adjacent and contemporary parish church of St Andrew remains and some evidence of mediaeval decoration is still to be found. \n\nIn 2001, British Channel 4 Television's archaeological series \"Time Team\" excavated a Gilbertine monastery in Chicksands, Bedfordshire. The programme was shown in 2002 as part of series 9 of \"Time Team\".\n\nIn 1983, following celebrations of the 900th anniversary of Gilbert's birth, a number of lay people in the East Midlands undertook to sustain the memory and work of Gilbert and the Gilbertine Order by establishing a new secular Order. The Oblates of St Gilbert exist to promote the Gilbertine contemplative spirit and to foster interest in the study of Gilbert and his Order. They are supported by the Cistercian monastery of Mount St Bernard Abbey in Leicestershire.\n\nIn about 1998 a priest of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of São Paulo in Brazil, Carlos Aparicido Marchesani, visited the Gilbertine Oblates as he had had a devotion to Saint Gilbert since a seminarian in the United States. He obtained permission from his bishop to found a small religious community, the Fraternidade São Gilbert, \"ad experimentum\", which was set up near São Paulo. This experimental community was dissolved in 2012.\n\nA Roman Catholic Gilbertine community, The Canons Regular of St Gilbert of Sempringham (GSmp), began to take shape in 2017 in Brandon, Manitoba, Canada within the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter. It is now based in Calgary, Alberta, and is soon to be erected a public association of the faithful. The modest revival is being shepherded by Father Robert-Charles Bengry, a former Anglican priest who was ordained a Roman Catholic priest of the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58939140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58939140", "title": "Glamanand Supermodel India", "text": "Glamanand Supermodel India\n\nGlamanand Supermodel India is a national beauty pageant in India that annually selects representatives to compete in Miss International and Miss Earth, two of the Big Four major international beauty pageants. The pageant also selects representatives to Miss Multinational, an international pageant organized by the Glamanand group.\n\nThe reigning Glamanand Supermodel India is Tanishqa Bhosale (Miss International India), who was crowned by the outgoing titleholder Ankita Kumari.\n\n\nThe winner of Glamanand Supermodel India represents her country at the Miss International. On occasion, when the winner does not qualify (due to age) for the contest, a runner-up is sent.\n\n\nIn 2015, Glamanand Supermodel India obtained the rights to send India's representatives to the Miss Earth pageant.\n\nMiss Multinational is an international pageant organized by Glamanand group since 2017. Hence, a winner from Glamanand Supermodel contest is sent to represent India.\n\n"}
{"id": "5487302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5487302", "title": "Great Depression in France", "text": "Great Depression in France\n\nThe Great Depression affected France from about 1931 through the remainder of the decade. The crisis affected France a bit later than other countries, hitting around 1931. While the 1920s grew at the very strong rate of 4.43% per year, the 1930s rate fell to only 0.63%. The depression was relatively mild: unemployment peaked under 5%, the fall in production was at most 20% below the 1929 output; there was no banking crisis. The depression had some effects on the local economy, which can partly explain the 6 February 1934 crisis and even more the formation of the Popular Front, led by SFIO socialist leader Léon Blum, who won the election of 1936.\n\nLike the United Kingdom, France had initially struggled to recover from the devastation of World War I, trying without much success to recover war reparations from Germany. Unlike Britain, though, France had a more self-sufficient economy. In 1929, France seemed an island of prosperity, for three reasons. First, it was a country traditionally wary of trusts and big companies. The economy of France was above all founded in small and medium-sized businesses not financed by shares. Unlike the English-speaking world and particularly Americans, the French invested little on the stock exchange and put their confidence into gold, which in the crisis of 1929 was a currency of refuge. Gold had played the same role in the first world war, which explained French attachment to it. Finally, France had had a positive balance of payments for some years thanks mainly to invisible exports such as tourism. French investments abroad were numerous.\n\nThe German reparations decided by the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 brought in large amounts of money which served principally to repay war loans to the United States. Reparations payments ended in 1923. In January of that year, Germany defaulted on its payments and the French president, Raymond Poincaré, invoked a clause of the Versailles Treaty and sent troops to occupy the Ruhr valley in the hope of enforcing payment. Germany responded by flooding the area with inflated money, ruining its currency and denying France any hope of full reparations. Poincaré accepted an agreement mediated by the United States in which it received smaller payments, but Poincaré's government fell soon afterward.\n\nWhile the United States experienced a sharp rise in unemployment, France had almost none. Much of that was due to a simple lack of manpower; at the end of the war, France had 1,322,000 dead and three million wounded, almost 4,000,000 casualties. One in four of the dead was younger than 24. That in turn lowered the birth rate, so that by 1938 France still had only half the number of 19- to 21-year-olds it would have had had the war not happened. But whatever the causes of full employment, confidence in the government was high. The French economy was stronger than those of its neighbors, notably because of the solidarity of the franc. The introduction of the US economic model, inspired particularly by Ford, ended suddenly and, with it, the modernization of French businesses. Everything seemed to favour the French; production didn't weaken before 1930, particularly in primary materials, and the country was the world's leading producer of iron in 1930. France felt confident in its systems and proud of its \"vertu budgétaire\", in other words the balancing of the budget, which France had managed more or less for nearly a decade.\n\nIn 1927, France gained from the world crisis in becoming the world's largest holder of gold, its reserves growing from 18 billion francs in 1927 to 80 billion in 1930.\n\nLe Figaro said: \"For our part let us rejoice in our timid yet prosperous economy as opposed to the presumptuousness and decadent economy of the Anglo-Saxon races.\"\n\nThere was a further contrast in the way France and Anglo-Saxon nations viewed their economies. The Anglo-Saxon model encouraged growth of the money stock; in France, the Depression was seen as a necessary evil, to \"purge\" the excess liquidity in the world economy and to push over-indebted companies into failure.\n\nSuccessive governments maintained restrictive policies into 1934 and interest rates were kept high to maintain the attractiveness of the franc. The absence of contra-cyclical policies kept the state budget in balance.\n\nIn 1934-35, the Pierre-Étienne Flandin government allowed a less restrictive policy allowing short-term indebtedness. The Banque de France lost 15 percent of its reserves and the government was replaced by one led by Pierre Laval, who installed a provisionally deflationist policy before himself accepting a public deficit. The franc ran into a new crisis.\n\nLaval tried in 1935 to reduce salaries in an effort to lessen unemployment. He ran into the resistance of unions in the public sector.\n\nThe inability of French production to take off was in contrast to the experience of the United Kingdom, which had devalued in 1931. Devaluation was something France didn't want and it happened only in 1936.\n\nThe distress of the population had political consequences. A riot on 6 February 1934 led to the fall of the government and a nation which had traditionally leaned to the right elected the socialist Popular Front government in 1936.\n\nThe Popular Front, an alliance of Socialists and Radicals with support outside the government of the Communists, was led by Léon Blum. The Popular Front introduced many measures such as the 40-hour working week and holidays with pay, but Blum felt handicapped in introducing more than limited changes to the economy because of his dependence on the more right-wing Radicals. This did little to placate a population anxious for change and a wave of strikes broke involving two million workers Factories were occupied and membership of the Communist party rose to 300,000 in 1937.\n\nOn the night of 7–8 June 1936, employers and unions signed the Matignon Agreements by which they raised wages by 7 to 15 percent to increase workers' buying power, to stimulate the economy and to bring an end to the strikes. Blum brought in measures to control cereal prices, to insist that the Banque de France place the national interest above that of the shareholders, and nationalized the armaments industry. That upset the Left, which saw too much legislation, and did nothing to please the Right, which believed that state involvement in a capitalist economy would bring about disaster.\n\nThe Radicals would not accept currency controls and the result of the unrest was that capital fled abroad. That weakened the economy and employers tried to minimize the results of the Matignon agreement, which created more social tension and in turn a further flight of capital.\n\nDevaluation of the franc by thirty per cent became inevitable, despite government assurances that it would not happen. In January 1937, Blum went further and announced \"a pause\" to social reforms. The Senate refused to give him emergency powers to cope with the recession and he resigned on 20 June 1937 and the first Popular Front began to fall apart. A second had even less success.\n\nThe President, Lebrun, called on the Radical leader Édouard Daladier to form a new government without the Socialists. Daladier relied on liberal economics to rescue, or at any rate keep afloat the economy on a worldwide sea of financial difficulties. Employers and police acted harshly against strikers and determined to root out \"troublemakers\". In 1938 the Senate gave Daladier the emergency powers that Blum had been denied and the government favored employers over workers in industrial disputes, particularly in companies which had come close to coming under the control of their workers.\n\nUnder Daladier, economic conditions slightly improved, to a backdrop of growing, increasingly vocal communist and fascist movements. These gains, however, were due as much as anything to the growth of the armaments industry. On 3 September 1939, following the illegal attack against its Polish ally by Germany, France declared war on Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2527451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2527451", "title": "Hetacillin", "text": "Hetacillin\n\nHetacillin is a beta-lactam antibiotic that is part of the aminopenicillin family. It is a prodrug and it has no antibacterial activity itself, but quickly splits of acetone in the human body to form ampicillin, which is active against a variety of bacteria.\n\nHetacillin can be administered orally. The potassium salt, hetacillin potassium, is administered by injection, either intravenously or intramuscularly. It is sold under the trade name Hetacin for intramammary injection in veterinary use.\n\nHetacillin was removed from the market for human use when the discovery was made that it is actually cleaved in the gastrointestinal tract to formaldehyde and had no advantages over ampicillin.\n\nHetacillin is prepared from ampicillin and acetone. In aqueous solutions it is unstable, with a half life of 15 to 30 minutes at and pH 7, quickly releasing acetone again.\n\nAs opposed to ampicillin, hetacillin is only marginally broken down by the bacterial enzyme beta-lactamase, at least \"in vitro\".\n"}
{"id": "225017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225017", "title": "Hillside Strangler", "text": "Hillside Strangler\n\nThe Hillside Strangler, later the Hillside Stranglers, is the media epithet for one, later two American serial killers who terrorized Los Angeles between October 1977 and February 1978, with the nicknames originating from the fact that many of the victims' bodies were discovered in the hills surrounding greater Los Angeles. The police, however, knew because of the positions of the bodies that two individuals were killing together, but withheld this information from the press. These two individuals were discovered to be cousins Kenneth Bianchi and Angelo Buono, who were later convicted of kidnapping, raping, torturing, and murdering 10 women and girls ranging in age from 12 to 28 years old.\n\nThe Hillside Strangler murders began with the deaths of three sex workers who were found strangled and dumped naked on hillsides northeast of Los Angeles between October and early November 1977, but it was not until the deaths of five young women who were not sex workers, but girls who had been abducted from middle-class neighborhoods, that the media attention and subsequent \"Hillside Strangler\" moniker came to be. There were two more deaths in December and February before the murders abruptly stopped, an extensive investigation proved fruitless until the arrest of Bianchi in January 1979 for the murder of two more young women in Washington State and the subsequent linking of his past to the Strangler case. The most expensive trial in the history of the California legal system at that time followed, with Bianchi and Buono eventually being found guilty of these crimes and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nIn January 1976, Kenneth Bianchi left Rochester, New York and moved to Los Angeles, California to live with his cousin, Angelo Buono, Jr.. Buono provided a strong role model for the docile Bianchi, and, when Bianchi was short of money, Buono came up with the idea of getting some girls to work for them as prostitutes. Two teenage runaways, Sabra Hannan and Becky Spears, met Bianchi and Buono and, once under their control, were forced to prostitute themselves. Eventually, Spears happened to meet lawyer David Wood, who was appalled at her situation and arranged for her to escape from the city. Encouraged by Spears' escape, Hannan ran away from Bianchi and Buono a short time later. With their pimping income gone, they had to find more teenage girls. Impersonating police officers, they eventually found another young woman and installed her in the previous girl's bedroom. Also, they bought from a prostitute named Deborah Noble a supposed \"trick list\" with names of men who frequented prostitutes. Deborah and her friend, Yolanda Washington, delivered the trick list to Buono in October 1977.\n\nYolanda happened to mention to Buono that she always worked on a certain stretch of Sunset Boulevard. When Bianchi and Buono found that Deborah had deceived them about the list but were unable to find her, they decided to take out their rage on Yolanda. Her naked body was found on October 18, 1977, on a hillside near the Ventura Freeway, and Detective Frank Salerno of the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department was called to the scene. It was determined that the corpse was cleaned before being dumped; faint marks were visible around the neck, wrists, and ankles where a rope had been used; and that the victim had been raped.\n\nOn November 1, 1977, police were called to Alta Terrace Drive in La Crescenta, a neighborhood 12 miles north of downtown Los Angeles, where the body of a teenage girl was found naked, face up on a parkway in a middle-class residential area. The homeowner had covered her with a tarp in the early morning hours to prevent the neighborhood children from viewing her on their way to school. Ligature marks were on her neck, wrists and ankles, indicating to police she was bound and strangled; and the body had been dumped, indicating she was killed elsewhere; Det. Salerno also found a small piece of light-colored fluff on her eyelid and saved it for the forensic experts. A coroner's report further detailed that she had been raped and sodomized. The girl, who was described as being \"small and thin, weighing about 90 pounds and appearing to be about 16 years old\", was eventually identified as 15 year old Judith Lynn Miller, a former student of Hollywood High School, runaway and occasional sex worker. Judith was last seen alive on October 31, 1977 talking to a man driving a large two-tone sedan on Sunset Blvd next to Carneys Express Limited. The stranglers told her they were undercover Police officers, handcuffed her, and took her to Buonos Upholstery Shop on Colorado Blvd in Glendale where she was murdered.\n\nFive days later, on November 6, 1977, the nude body of another woman was discovered near the Chevy Chase Country Club, in Glendale. Like Miller, she bore five-point (neck, wrists and ankles) ligature marks and of having been strangled and brutally raped, but not sodomized. The woman was identified as twenty-one-year-old waitress Elissa Teresa \"Lissa\" Kastin, who was last seen leaving the restaurant where she worked the night before her body was discovered. Kastin was also a professional dancer for The L.A. Knockers and unlike the two previous victims was not a prostitute, drug user or runaway. The stranglers followed Kastin after she was seen driving home from work, pulled her over on the street she lived on, presented a fake police badge, and told her that they were detectives. They then handcuffed her and told her they needed to take her in for questioning. \n\nAt some point in early November 1977, the two men approached 24-year-old Catharine Lorre Baker, the daughter of actor Peter Lorre — famous for his role as a serial killer in Fritz Lang's film \"M\" — with the intent of abducting and killing her. However, when they found a picture of her sitting on her father's lap among her identification, they let her go without incident. She did not realize who the men were until they were arrested, at which point she recalled that two men flashing L.A. police badges had approached her in the past.\n\nOn Sunday November 13, 1977, two girls, 12-year-old Dolores Ann \"Dolly\" Cepeda and 14-year-old Sonja Marie Johnson, boarded a RTD bus in front of The Eagle Rock Plaza and headed home. The last time they were seen was getting off the bus on York Blvd and Ave 46 and approaching a two-tone sedan which reportedly had two men inside. The two corpses were found by a nine-year-old boy who had been treasure hunting in a trash heap on a hillside near Dodger Stadium, on November 20, 1977. Both of the girls' bodies had already begun to decompose, but it was still determined that they had been strangled and raped.\n\nEarlier that same day, November 20, 1977, hikers found the naked body of twenty-year-old Kristina Weckler, a quiet honors student at the Art Center College of Design deemed by Detective Bob Grogan of the Los Angeles Police Department to be a \"loving and serious young woman who should have had a bright future ahead of her\", on a hillside between Glendale and Eagle Rock. When found by Grogan, ligature marks were on her wrists, ankles and neck, and when he turned her over, bruises on her breasts were obvious and blood oozed from her rectum. Unlike the first three victims however, there were two puncture marks on her arm, but no signs of the needle tracks that indicated a drug addict. It was later revealed that Weckler had been injected with Windex, a hard-surface cleaner.\n\nOn November 23, 1977, the badly decomposed body of 28-year-old Evelyn Jane King, an actress who had gone missing around November 9, was found near the Los Feliz off-ramp of the Golden State Freeway. The severity of decomposition prevented determination as to whether she had been raped or tortured but she had been strangled like the others and in response authorities created a task force — initially composed of 30 officers from the LAPD, the Sheriff's Department and the Glendale Police Department — to catch the predator now dubbed the \"Hillside Strangler\".\n\nOn November 29, 1977, police found the body of eighteen-year-old Lauren Rae Wagner, a business student who lived with her parents in the San Fernando Valley, in the hills around Glendale's Mount Washington. She had ligature marks on her neck, ankles and wrists; but there were also burn marks on her hands indicating she was tortured. Lauren's parents had expected her to come home before midnight, and the next morning when they found her car parked across the street with the door ajar, her father questioned the neighbors. He found that the woman who lived in the house where Lauren's car had been parked saw her abduction. This woman stated that she saw two men: one was tall and young; the other one was older and shorter with bushy hair. She also stated that she heard Wagner cry out, \"You won't get away with this!\", during her abduction.\n\nOn December 14, 1977, the body of 17-year-old prostitute Kimberly Diane Martin, which was naked and showed signs of torture, was found on a deserted lot near Los Angeles City Hall. Martin had previously joined a call girl agency because she feared exposing herself on the streets with the Strangler on the loose, but, unfortunately, the killers happened to place a call to her agency from a Hollywood Public Library pay phone and she was the call girl who was dispatched. When the police investigated the apartment she had been dispatched to, they found it vacant and broken into.\n\nThe final victim was discovered in Los Angeles on February 17, 1978, when a helicopter pilot spotted an orange Datsun abandoned off a cliff on the Angeles Crest Highway. Police responded to the scene and found the body of the car's owner, twenty-year-old Cindy Lee Hudspeth - a student and part-time waitress - in the trunk. Her corpse again showed ligature marks, and she had been raped and tortured. It appeared she had been strangled and put in the trunk of her car, which was then pushed off the cliff above.\n\nIn January 1979, after intensive investigation, police charged Bianchi and Buono with the crimes. Bianchi had fled to Bellingham, Washington, where he was soon arrested for raping and murdering two women he had lured to a home for a house-sitting job. Bianchi attempted to set up an insanity defense, claiming that he had dissociative identity disorder and that a personality separate from himself committed the murders. Court psychologists, notably Dr. Martin Orne, observed Bianchi and found that he was faking, so Bianchi agreed to plead guilty and testify against Buono in exchange for leniency.\n\nAt the conclusion of Buono's trial in 1983, Presiding Judge Ronald M. George, who later became Chief Justice of the California Supreme Court, stated during sentencing, \"I would not have the slightest reluctance to impose the death penalty in this case were it within my power to do so. Ironically, although these two defendants utilized almost every form of legalized execution against their victims, the defendants have escaped any form of capital punishment.\" Bianchi is serving a life sentence at the Washington State Penitentiary in Walla Walla. Buono died of a heart attack on September 21, 2002, at Calipatria State Prison in California, where he was serving a life sentence.\n\nIn 1980, Bianchi began a relationship with Veronica Compton. During his trial, she testified for the defense. She was later convicted and imprisoned for attempting to strangle a woman she had lured to a motel in an attempt to have authorities believe that the Hillside Strangler was still on the loose and the wrong man was imprisoned. Bianchi had given her some smuggled semen to use to make it look like a rape/murder committed by the Hillside Strangler. She was released in 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32420868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32420868", "title": "Ingham incident", "text": "Ingham incident\n\nThe Ingham\" Incident, or the Montezuma\" Affair, was a naval battle fought in 1835, the first between Mexico and the United States. The Mexican warship \"Montezuma\" patrolled the coast of Texas to prevent the smuggling of contraband into the territory. During the cruise, the Mexicans captured the American merchant ship \"Martha\" and later the Texan ship \"Columbia\" which led to a response by the Revenue Service cutter USRC \"Ingham\". A bloodless engagement was fought on June 14, and ended when the \"Montezuma\" was purposely run aground to prevent capture.\n\nThe conflict began at Galveston on May 7 of 1835 before the outbreak of fighting between the Texans and the Mexicans. That day the Mexican Navy schooner \"Montezuma\", under the command of Lieutenant Juan Calvi, seized the American schooner \"Martha\" for \"customs violations\" and because the passengers were not carrying passports, they were arrested and put in the brig. Two of the passengers, Thomas J. and Francis S. Early, were the sons of the former Governor Peter Early of Georgia. The brothers recalled that on previous encounters in Mexico the authorities did not ask for passports so they assumed they didn't need one. Ten days later Calvi captured the Texan ship \"Columbia\" for similar infractions. Both incidents sparked anger in Texas and a debate on whether the seizures were legal. The smuggling of contraband into Texas had become a major concern to the Mexicans by 1835, according to author William R. Wells II, most American and Texan ships were involved in the illegal trade and openly defiant of the Mexican laws against such activities. Mill equipment owned by Robert Wilson was part of the cargo aboard the \"Martha\" when she was taken. Wells sent a message about the outrage to Lieutenant Colonel William B. Travis.\n\nTravis responded with a letter dated July 7, informing Wilson that the revenue cutter USRC \"Ingham\" had been dispatched by Customs Agent James W. Breedlove, as she was the only armed American naval ship in the western Gulf of Mexico. The \"Ingham\" was cruising the Mississippi River south of New Orleans when her commander, Captain Ezekiel Jones, received orders to sail to Texas. Though the seizures of the two ships were deemed legal by the Texans and the Americans, a critical press, politics, and the \"unofficial urging\" of the use of force by President Andrew Jackson eventually resulted in the operation and a subsequent naval battle. Due to an incident at Havana, Cuba, sometime before, Agent Breedlove attempted to establish an American naval force in the western Gulf by claiming that a slave ship was sailing from Havana to Texas but his scheme was thwarted by Assistant Navy Secretary John Boyle. One vessel was dispatched, the USS \"St. Louis\", which sailed for Cuba where her commander discovered that the so-called slave ship was carrying free negroes to Brazoria.\n\nBecause Captain Jones lacked just cause, his official report states that he was sailing the \"Ingham\" on a twenty-five-day cruise for an anti-slavery operation though his real intentions were to liberate the captured ships and the American citizens. Upon reaching the Sabine River, Jones patrolled the area for a few days for slavers before crossing into Mexican waters disguised as a merchantman. First the captain sailed past Galveston for Matagorda, Texas, but heavy seas prevented him from entering so Jones headed for the Brazos River, where on June 3 he was informed by a local pilot that \"several Acts of Piracy\" had been committed by the \"Montezuma\" and that there were no slave ships in the area. Captain Jones sent a landing party ashore to uncover the truth of these claims and he ordered that the three vessels in port be examined, none of which were found to be carrying slaves. Following that the Americans cruised back to Matagorda and crossed the bar on June 5; two more ships were boarded but they were found to be legal. At the same time a crewman from one of the merchant ships informed the Americans that a vessel with 100 slaves on board was expected to arrive at Matagorda shortly.\n\nJones dismissed this rumor and continued on to search the bay for the \"Montezuma\" which was suspected of being in the area. Another shore party was landed with the mission of investigating various rumors about the \"Martha\" affair and to recruit spies to report on the \"Montezuma\"s presence. Ultimately USRC \"Ingham\" would sail the Texas coast for another two weeks without finding the Mexican schooner. Jones used the time to board suspected slavers and to drill his men for a possible encounter with the \"Montezuma\". Eventually Jones decided to head for Matamoros on June 12 \"with the avowed intention of seeking the Montezuma.\"\n\nOn June 13, the \"Ingham\" passed the bar at Passo Cabello where she struck the ground several times, so a pilot was hired to take the ship to Brazos Santiago which was reached on July 14. While six miles off the port, Jones proceeded with caution by having \"all hands preparing grape shot & getting the Battery in fighting order & exercising the great guns & small arms.\" At 5:00 pm Jones tacked toward shore and a lookout sighted a vessel anchored off Brazos Santiago. An hour later the vessel was identified as a \"clipper built Schooner\" and at 6:30 the vessel hoisted sails and \"bore down\" on the \"Ingham\". Ten minutes after that the Mexicans opened fire on the Americans with one shot and at 7:40 her crew raised their ensign, revealing that the vessel was a warship. According to Captain Jones, he returned the Mexican's fire only after receiving it, though it remains unknown as to who fired the first shots. The former master of the captured Texan ship \"Colombia\" was on board the \"Montezuma\" throughout the incident and he claimed that the Mexicans opened fire after the \"Ingham\" discharged a lee gun as a signal to communicate. Jones reported that Lieutenant Calvi must have thought the \"Ingham\" was a merchant ship due to the disguise and as soon as he realized that the American ship was armed, he \"hauled his wind & made all sail from us.\" The Americans were now chasing the \"Montezuma\" and they opened fire with a 9-pounder chaser to prevent the Mexicans from moving into position for a broadside.\n\nAfter that Lieutenant Calvi had his men open fire again, making Jones believe that a battle had begun in earnest so he slowed his ship to allow the \"Ingham\"s broadside guns to be brought into action. Calvi exploited this opportunity to disengage and he headed for the shore, jettisoning gear and weapons along the way to lighten the schooner, increase her speed, and to shorten the vessel's draft in order to cross the bars of the Rio Grande. Calvi, for unknown reasons, did not sail into port; instead he anchored with his broadside facing the \"Ingham\". The alarm was also raised and Mexican Army troops reinforced the \"Montezuma\". Soon after that the Mexicans were back in sail and they resumed their firing on the American cutter. Calvi stayed close to shore so the remainder of the engagement was a long range gunnery duel. Captain Jones attempted to cut the Mexicans off by getting in between the \"Montezuma\" and the harbor's entrance but Calvi was \"too far to the leeward\" for that to be done. By 12:00 the Mexicans were unable to escape the pursuing \"Ingham\" so Clavi chose to run his ship \"into the Breakers & on the Bar\" which caused heavy damage to the \"Montezuma\". Jones considered shelling the wreck but he later decided against this and broke off the action now that the enemy was no longer a threat.\n\nAmerican forces discharged only thirteen shots during the entire battle according to Jones' report; he did not mention how many rounds the Mexicans had fired. In the following months, an anonymous person claimed that the \"Ingham\" had purposely remained out of the \"Montezuma\"s range; this was contested by a sailor named Harby, who commanded the ship's guns. Harby said that the Mexican schooner was within \"easy reach\" of his last six shots and that Captain Jones had ordered that the \"Montezuma\" should not be struck but, if possible, intimidated. There were no casualties on either side. After the battle, Jones sailed back for New Orleans where he prepared for another expedition with the objective of capturing the Mexican warship \"Correo de Mexico\". However, hostilities broke out in Texas first and the rebels engaged and captured the \"Correo de Mexico\" on September 1 off Brazoria. The American prisoners captured by Lieutenant Calvi were all released on June 15 and the cruise of the \"Ingham\" was declared a success. A newspaper called the \"Ingham\" \"Semper Paratus\" for her response to the \"Martha\" affair and the term would eventually become the motto of the United States Coast Guard. The \"Ingham\" was later sold to the Texas Navy and renamed \"Independence\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11215509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11215509", "title": "Intermovement", "text": "Intermovement\n\nThe Intermovement \"(International Movement of Workers in the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic)\" (, , translit. Interdvizhenie) was a political movement and organisation in the Estonian SSR. It was founded on 19 July 1988 and claimed by different sources 16,000 - 100,000 members. The original name of the movement was Interfront (International Front of Workers in the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic), which was changed to Intermovement in autumn 1988.\n\nThe movement was aligned with the conservative (that is, pro-Soviet) wing of Estonian Communist Party, and opposed the Estonian independence movement led by the nationalistic Popular Front of Estonia and the liberal wing of the CPE. The Intermovement was not perceived as an organisation built on nationalist principles but it gathered almost exclusively supporters from ethnic non-Estonians. The main leader of the movement was Jevgeni Kogan (, sometimes transliterated as Evgeny Kogan). Kogan was also one of the leaders of the hardline Soyuz faction in the USSR legislature. Other leaders of the Intermovement included Vladimir Jarovoi (, also transliterated as Vladimir Yarovoi), Arnold Sai, Vladimir Lebedev () and economist Konstantin Kiknadze\n\nThe Intermovement functioned at factories, mainly, at military plants and those factories that had an all-union importance. A large part of Estonian heavy industry was part of the integrated production chain providing their production to the industries in other Soviet regions. These included e.g. the engine factory \"Dvigatel\", Kalinin's and Pöögelmann's electrotechnical plant \"Tondi Elektroonika\", and the (especially but not only phosphorite) mining industry in Northern Estonia. It was feared that Estonian independence would lead to the loss of jobs. In fact, after independence the industries were forced to restructure their production and re-orient to new markets, which in most of cases drastically reduced production and forced lay off many people, a large number of whom were Soviet-era immigrants.\n\nAccording to critics, the movement's aim was to protect the conservative Soviet values and make everything possible to block the actions of the Popular Front. According to the former KGB general Oleg Kalugin () it was established in Estonia as also in other parts of the USSR on the initiative of the KGB, as a counterbalance to the Popular Fronts, perceived as nationalist organizations. Despite the stereotyping of the Russophones as a force opposing an Estonian independence movement, the Interfront organizations were never mass movements and their membership was largely confined to members of the Party apparat and plant managers. One of initiators of foundation of the Popular Front R. Grigorjan afterwards gave the following evaluation:\n\nIn elections for the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union in 1989 pro-Intermovement candidates won 6 seats out of Estonia's 36, against 27 won by the Popular Front.\n\nFrom 29 August 1990 to 21 August 1991 the Intermovement ran the radio station Nadezhda (, meaning 'Hope'), which contrary to the ordinary procedure got its license from the central authorities of the Soviet Union without informing local authorities in Estonia. Following an order by the Soviet Defense Minister Dmitry Yazov, the radio station was installed at the territory of the Soviet military base in Keila, near Tallinn.\n\nIn 1993 Estonian state adopted a law on citizenship and residency, based on \"Jus sanguinis\". Under the new law, former Soviet citizens who had neither held Estonian citizenship nor were descended from citizens (including approximately 500,000 ethnic Russians) were to be regarded foreigners. Some raised concerns that the new foreigners would face possible expulsion from Estonian territory; however, these concerns were not based in fact and in general, Soviet-era non-citizen immigrants were furnished with long-term residence permits.\n\nOstensibly in response to the government's actions, Juri Mišin and a few other former activists of the Intermovement made demands of regional autonomy for Estonia's Russian minority, seeking autonomy of the ethnic Russian dominated areas in North-East Estonia.\n\nActivists held an unconstitutional plebiscite on this matter in the Narva region. Some raised concerns that the central government might use force to prevent the plebiscite, but these concerns were not based in fact, and it tookplace on July 16–July 17, 1993. According to the activist commissions in Narva and Sillamäe, 53.2% percent of voters participated and 98% in total (97.2% in Narva). However, the central government determined the majority of the population did not participate, and demanded the Narva city council, which had provided material support to separatists, to disband.\n\nThe Intermovement was not built on ethnic principles and had some ethnic Estonian supporters. However, of the 742 delegates attending the first congress on March 5, 1989, only 11 were ethnic Estonian. It was supported by Gustav Naan and Vladimir Hütt; Intermovements ranks also included Arnold Sai, Lembit Annus and Valter Toots. Similar organisations existed in Latvia, Lithuania (called 'Yedinstvo' - 'Unity') and Moldavia. They shared orthodox communist views and struggled for preserving the Soviet Union. Being committed to the USSR's territorial integrity, they forged alliances with Russian nationalist organizations. Pyotr Rozhok, a participant of the Intermovement, became a LDPRF politician in 1990s before running as Stalinist Bloc candidate in Russian legislative election, 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34550963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34550963", "title": "Internationale Bauausstellung", "text": "Internationale Bauausstellung\n\nAn Internationale Bauausstellung (IBA) or International Architecture Exhibition is a German tool for urban engineering and architecture, in order to show new concepts in terms of social, cultural and ecologic ideas.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20055645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20055645", "title": "Irish Steam Preservation Society", "text": "Irish Steam Preservation Society\n\nThe Irish Steam Preservation Society was formed in 1965 in Stradbally, in Ireland. Under the auspices of Colonel Kidd, it held the first steam rally in Ireland on St Stephen's Day that year.\n\nThe society is responsible for the Irish National Steam Rally, which held its 50th event in August 2014. Additionally, it curates the Stradbally Steam Museum and runs the narrow gauge Stradbally Woodland Railway. The railway operates from a station through the woods, returning via a balloon loop. This line is home to former Bord na Móna steam locomotive No. 2 (later No. LM44) which had been built by Andrew Barclay Sons & Co. (2264 of 1949). Several diesel locomotives also work on the line, Notably the oldest working diesel locomotive in Ireland (Planet WN 2014 of 1936) \"Nippy\" and Ruston and Hornsby ESB No 4 \"Rusty\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24738599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24738599", "title": "Kelly (musical)", "text": "Kelly (musical)\n\nKelly is a musical with a book and lyrics by Eddie Lawrence and music by Mark Charlap. It was inspired by Steve Brodie, who in 1886 claimed to have jumped off the Brooklyn Bridge and survived. The story centers around Hop Kelly, a daredevil busboy. Some Bowery gamblers try to prevent him from surviving a jump from the Brooklyn Bridge.\n\nThe 1965 musical is notable for having closed after its opening night performance on Broadway, becoming one of the biggest flops in Broadway history.\n\nInspired by the 1880s tale of Brooklyn Bridge-jumper Steve Brodie, the musical features period characters Diamond Jim Brady, Frank and Jesse James, Tony Pastor, Lillian Russell and John L. Sullivan.\n\nOf the show's origins, Eddie Lawrence, lyricist and librettist, recalled that: \"Moose Charlap had finished doing his songs for \"Peter Pan\", starring Mary Martin, and a couple of one-acts of mine were being performed while I toured late night TV plugging my comedy album. During the afternoons, we worked on \"Kelly\". It was a labour of love.\" At that early stage, the show was titled \"Never Go There Anymore\".\n\nLawrence further recalls that \"we ran into some producers who said they'd been waiting for this show all their lives and wanted to present it on Broadway.\" The show's original producer was Broadway stalwart Edward Padula (in association with January Productions), whose deal included a motion picture adaptation. Toward the end of 1963, it was reported that the budget had been set at $350,000, with $100,000 to be invested by Roulette Records. At this early stage, a number of actors were named as possible leads. Impressionist Frank Gorshin and film actor Richard Harris were both considered for the lead male role, while Mark Charlap's wife, pop singer Sandy Stewart, was considered for the lead female role. Lindsey Anderson was engaged as the show's director. Rehearsals were scheduled to start on 27 January 1964, with a Broadway opening planned for March. None of this, however, came to pass.\n\nBy April of that year, the show had been taken up by new producers, David Susskind, Daniel Melnick, and Joseph E. Levine of Embassy Pictures. Levine financed $250,000 of the $400,000 budget, with the balance coming from Columbia Records and six other investors. The sponsors acquired the motion picture rights by placing a down payment of $500, with the ultimate cost rising to a maximum of $650,000 based on a percentage of ticket sales for each of the show's profitable weeks.\n\nBefore its Broadway opening, the show was presented for three weeks in Philadelphia and half a week in Boston. While \"Kelly\" was in tryouts, roles played by Ella Logan, Jack Creley, and Avery Schreiber were cut by show doctors Leonard Stern and Mel Brooks. Pre-Broadway promotion for the show included an event on the Brooklyn Bridge with a series of chorus girls.\n\nDirected and choreographed by Herbert Ross, the musical began previews at the Broadhurst Theatre on February 1, 1965 and opened (and closed) on February 6 after seven previews and one performance. The cast included Wilfrid Brambell, Don Francks, Anita Gillette, Mickey Shaughnessy, Eileen Rodgers, and Jesse White. Scenic design was by Oliver Smith, costume design by Freddy Wittop, and lighting design by Tharon Musser. The show's logo, which featured on posters and playbills (and, much later, on the LP and CD covers) was designed by French-born illustrator Tomi Ungerer, who was then (and remains) best known for his children's picture books.\n\nIndustry representatives quoted in \"The New York Times\" stated they \"could not recall any other Broadway musical representing such a comparable expenditure that became a casualty so quickly.\" Costs had ballooned to $650,000, with the biggest loser being Levine, followed by Melnick and Susskind, who had invested a total of $150,000. There had been increasing arguments between the producers and writers, with Susskind complaining that the authors were unwilling to make changes per the recommendations of the investors. Charlap and Lawrence were so upset with changes that they filed suit in New York Supreme Court seeking an injunction to prevent the play from opening. While the judge urged that the parties pursue arbitration, lawyers representing Charlap and Lawrence were threatening to sue for damages that had been caused through \"unauthorized changes, omissions and additions\" made to the musical.\n\nIn his review in \"The New York Times\", critic Howard Taubman opened by noting that \"Ella Logan was written out of \"Kelly\" before it reached the Broadhurst Theater Saturday night. Congratulations, Miss Logan,\" and continued to describe what he saw as a production for which there were \"ample critical, if not legal, grounds for an injunction,\" lampooning the legal wrangling that had gone on about the production. The play's brief life was later described by Melnick's son as \"not his [father's] favorite moment in history,\" but nonetheless one he wore with grace.\n\nLater that year, there were reports of an off-Broadway revival of the show, to be produced by David Rubinson of Columbia Records. This was intended to present the show in its original form, as conceived by Lawrence and Charlap, as opposed to the much-revised and re-written version that finally opened on Broadway.\n\nIn 1880s New York, teenage busboy Hop Kelly, an Irish immigrant, is a sentimental daredevil who wants to make a successful jump from the Brooklyn Bridge and become a hero. He has chickened out of three attempts already. A group of Bowery gamblers are betting against him surviving the jump, and they don't like the suspense. They decide to throw a dummy off the bridge in his place, but Hop really wants to make the jump, and eventually he successfully does so.\n\nAlthough Columbia Records were one of the show's original backers, no cast album was ever commercially recorded. As was typical at the time, a demonstration recording of the show's score was recorded by its composer and lyricist/librettist at an early stage in its inception. Produced by Frank Military in 1964, the recording was performed by Charlap and Lawrence themselves, and included thirteen songs from the score. Because the show subsequently underwent considerable revision, this demo recording included several songs that were eventually cut from the show, or otherwise went unused in the produced version.\n\nThe demo recording, which was only ever intended as a limited edition for private circulation amongst potential backers and so on, was finally commercially released in 1980, fifteen years after the showed closed. The LP, simply entitled \"Eddie Lawrence and Moose Charlap sing their songs from the Musical Kelly\" formed part of a series of albums on the Original Cast label, founded in 1975 by Bruce Yeko and Doris Chu Yeko, which specialised in obscure musical theatre recordings. The album's executive producers were the Yekos and Eddie Lawrence. It was dedicated to the memory of Moose Charlap, who died in 1974.\n\nMoose Charlap's wife, Sandy Stewart, who was a cabaret and jazz vocalist, released her own pop version of the song \"Never Go There Anymore\" in 1965, with a lush arrangement by Don Costa. The song subsequently become something of a standard. In 2000, it was described by Stephen Sondheim as one of the songs that he wishes that he'd written, at least in part.\n\nIn 1998, the York Theatre Company in New York City presented a concert version of \"Kelly\" as part of its \"musicals in mufti\" series spotlighting neglected Broadway scores. Performers included Brian D'Arcy James, Jane Connell, George S. Irving, John Schuck, Marcia Lewis, and Sandy Stewart, who was in the original production. Interest in the concert among theatre buffs resulted in sold-out performances and a cast recording.\n\nThe concert recording was released by Original Cast records, the same label that had released the demo recording in 1980. Eddie Lawrence was credited as 'artistic director', and Sandy Stewart as 'musical advisor'. This recording, which reflected the original score before all the revisions took place on the road, included a number of songs were later cut from the show or had not otherwise been used in the Broadway production. It also included, as a bonus track, Sandy Stewart's 1965 pop version of the song \"Never Go There Anymore.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "42268917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42268917", "title": "Law Enforcement Information Exchange", "text": "Law Enforcement Information Exchange\n\nThe Law Enforcement Information Exchange is a database which is maintained by the Naval Criminal Investigative Service. Eugene R. Fidell described the database as constituting domestic spying.\n\nAccording to the NCIS website,The Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) launched the Law Enforcement Information Exchange (LInX) initiative in 2003. LInX is designed to enhance information sharing between local, state, and federal law enforcement in areas of strategic importance to the Department of the Navy. LInX provides participating law enforcement partner agencies with secure access to regional crime and incident data and the tools needed to process it, enabling investigators to search across jurisdictional boundaries to help solve crimes and resolve suspicious events. LInX is designed to facilitate cooperation and sharing. Ownership and control of the data remains with the agency that provided it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30309486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30309486", "title": "List of Grey Cup halftime shows", "text": "List of Grey Cup halftime shows\n\nThe following is a list of halftime performances that have occurred at the Grey Cup, the championship game of the Canadian Football League. Until 1989, the Grey Cup halftime performance, if one occurred, was usually a marching band. The 1990 halftime show featured a number of dance teams, then in 1991 the modern style of a performance by a well known (often Canadian) recording artist was introduced, with Luba and Burton Cummings.\n\n"}
{"id": "11056207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11056207", "title": "List of Mariah Carey live performances", "text": "List of Mariah Carey live performances\n\nThis is a list of tours, residencies, and one-off concerts by American singer Mariah Carey.\n\n Only performances in which dates are known are listed below. The majority of performances not listed because their dates are missing are from the 1990s, including those from Europe, Japan, and Australia.\n"}
{"id": "30629972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30629972", "title": "List of cultural, intellectual, philosophical and technological revolutions", "text": "List of cultural, intellectual, philosophical and technological revolutions\n\nThe term revolution is used to denote trends which have resulted in great social changes outside the political sphere, such as changes in mores, culture, philosophy or technology. Many have been global, while others have been limited to single countries. Such revolutions include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41823612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41823612", "title": "List of people assassinated by the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna", "text": "List of people assassinated by the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna\n\nThis is a list of notable people assassinated by the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP). JVP is a Sri Lankan Marxist-Leninist, communist party which was involved in two armed uprisings against the ruling governments in 1971 (SLFP) and 1987–89 (UNP). Later it entered democratic politics by participating in the 1994 parliamentary election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10404914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10404914", "title": "Mechanical overload", "text": "Mechanical overload\n\nThe failure or fracture of a product or component as a result of a single event is known as mechanical overload. It is a common failure mode, and may be contrasted with fatigue, creep, rupture, or stress relaxation. The terms are used in forensic engineering and structural engineering when analysing product failure. Failure may occur because either the product is weaker than expected owing to a stress concentration, or the applied load is greater than expected and exceeds the normal tensile strength, shear strength or compressive strength of the product.\n\nExamples include the many components which fail in car crashes, train crashes, and airplane crashes as a result of impact loading. The problem for the investigator is to determine which failures have been caused by the crash, and which may have caused the crash. It usually involves examining the broken parts for signs of fatigue crack growth or other damage to the part which cannot be attributed to the crash itself. For very large structural failures such as the collapse of bridges, it is necessarily a long and tedious process of sifting through the broken parts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19021761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19021761", "title": "Millennium Final", "text": "Millennium Final\n\nMillennium Final was a Germany-only professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event from World Championship Wrestling (WCW). It took place on November 16, 2000 from the Arena Oberhausen in Oberhausen, Germany. The rights to Millennium Final now belong to WWE after their purchase of WCW in 2001. It is one of the few pay-per-view events not made available for streaming on the WWE Network service. However, Sting's European Cup defense against Kevin Nash is part of the \"Sting: The Icon Defined\" collection on WWE Network.\n\nThe event featured wrestlers from pre-existing scripted feuds and storylines. Wrestlers portrayed villains, heroes, or less distinguishable characters in the scripted events that built tension and culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\n General Rection replaced Disqo (who was injured) as Alex Wright's tag team partner in the WCW World Tag Team Championship match against The Natural Born Thrillers (Mark Jindrak and Sean O'Haire) who were the WCW World Tag Team Champions at the time, Disqo is recognized by WWE as one-half of the WCW World Tag Team Champions with Alex Wright.\n\n"}
{"id": "2346523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2346523", "title": "Morris R. Jeppson", "text": "Morris R. Jeppson\n\nMorris Richard Jeppson (June 23, 1922 – March 30, 2010) was a Second Lieutenant in the United States Army Air Forces during World War II. He served as assistant weaponeer on the \"Enola Gay\", which dropped the first atomic bomb on the city of Hiroshima, Japan on August 6, 1945.\n\nJeppson was born in Logan, Utah, and studied physics at the University of Nevada, Reno. After enlisting in the United States Army Air Corps in 1942 at the age of 19 and basic training in Florida, he received electrical engineering training at Yale University, Harvard University and MIT. He then worked on bomb firing mechanisms with Los Alamos scientists at Wendover Air Force Base, Utah.\n\nSecond Lieutenant Jeppson, along with then Captain William \"Deak\" Parsons of the U.S. Navy were responsible for arming the atomic bomb \"Little Boy\" on the Boeing B-29 Superfortress bomber during the flight from Tinian to Japan. The bomb was protected from premature in-flight detonation by inserting three safety plugs into the electrical connection from its internal battery to the firing mechanism. This was designed to prevent a firing voltage from reaching the mechanism. Each plug was about the size and shape of a car cigarette lighter (approximately three inches in length), with a green cap for the safety plug and a red cap for the arming plug. Jeppson's role was to climb into the bomb bay and remove the three green safety plugs from the bomb and to replace them with the three red plugs just before the aircraft climbed to high altitude close the target area, a job that later caused controversy.\n\nIn September 1945, Jeppson was awarded the Silver Star in recognition of his service to his country. During the 1950s he worked as a scientist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California developing hydrogen thermonuclear weapons. Later in his career, he helped develop several key technological breakthroughs including microwave technology as well as stabilizers used on helicopters. After retiring from his work as a physicist, Jeppson lived in Las Vegas with his second wife Mollie.\n\nFor many years, Jeppson refused to speak publicly about the Hiroshima mission for fear of reprisal against himself and his family. Starting in 1985, he became more willing to speak about it. On the 40th anniversary of the dropping of the bomb, Jeppson granted an interview and recounted his part in the mission.\n\nIn June 2002, a controversy over the sale of a set of safety plugs Jeppson had kept since the mission occurred. After the mission Jeppson had kept one of each in his possession. The plugs were offered for sale in an auction, however the U.S. government tried to halt the sale, claiming they were classified secret material. U.S. District Court Judge Susan Illston rejected the claim by the government clearing the way for the sale. The plugs were eventually sold to retired physicist Clay Perkins for $167,000.\n\nA reunion for the 60th anniversary in 2005 which was supposed to take place on the island of Guam had been in the planning stages, but never materialized. \"Time\" Magazine published an in-depth issue commemorating the 60th anniversary of the dropping of the bombs on Japan. Jeppson and other crew members gave accounts of their experiences. Jeppson also gave an account of his role in the mission in the BBC drama documentary \"\" in 2005 and his removal of the safety plugs was portrayed by an actor.\n\nJeppson died on March 30, 2010 in Las Vegas. He is survived by his wife, brother, three children, five grandchildren and three great grandchildren. With Jeppson's death, Theodore Van Kirk became the last surviving \"Enola Gay\" crew member (Van Kirk died on July 28, 2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "49356993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49356993", "title": "Murder of Giulio Regeni", "text": "Murder of Giulio Regeni\n\nGiulio Regeni (; 15 January 1988 – 2016) was an Italian Cambridge University graduate who was abducted and tortured to death in Egypt. Regeni was a PhD student at Girton College, Cambridge, researching Egypt's independent trade unions, and a former employee of the international consulting firm Oxford Analytica. He grew up in Fiumicello, a former comune (now Fiumicello Villa Vicentina) in the Province of Udine in northeast Italy.\n\nRegeni's mutilated and half-naked corpse was found in a ditch alongside the Cairo-Alexandria highway on the outskirts of Cairo on February 3, 2016. His recovered body showed signs of extreme torture: contusions and abrasions all over from a severe beating; extensive bruising from kicks, punches, and assault with a stick; more than two dozen bone fractures, among them seven broken ribs, all fingers and toes, as well as legs, arms, and shoulder blades; multiple stab wounds on the body including the soles of the feet, possibly from an ice pick or awl-like instrument; numerous cuts over the entire body made with a sharp instrument suspected to be a razor; extensive cigarette burns; a larger burn mark between the shoulder blades made with a hard and hot object; a brain hemorrhage; and a broken cervical vertebra, which ultimately caused death.\n\nItalian and Egyptian officials conducted separate autopsies on Regeni's corpse with an Egyptian forensic official reporting on March 1, 2016, that he was interrogated and tortured for up to seven days at intervals of 1014 hours before he was finally killed. The Egyptian autopsy findings have still not been made public. A 300-page report of the Italian autopsy findings has been handed over to the public prosecutor's office in Rome and denies earlier reports of signs of electric shocks administered to Regeni's genitals.\n\nOn March 24, 2016, Egyptian police killed in a shoot out four men who were allegedly responsible for kidnapping Regeni. According to a Facebook post from the official page of the Ministry of the Interior, the gang specialized in kidnapping foreigners and stealing their money. In a raid on the flat of one of the gang members, the Egyptian police claim they found various items that belonged to Regeni including his passport and student photo IDs. However, witnesses told Declan Walsh and other journalists that the \"gang\" members had been executed, not shot while riding in the van: \"One was shot as he ran, his corpse later positioned inside the van\". Their link to Regeni was also suspect: \"Italian investigators used phone records to show that the supposed gang leader, Tarek Abdel Fattah, was 60 miles north of Cairo the day he supposedly kidnapped Regeni\", according to Declan Walsh. The New Cairo prosecutor's office later denied that the criminal gang was involved in his murder.\n\nRegeni's passport and the other documents were handed over to Italian prosecutors on November 1, same year, during a \"positive\" meeting in Cairo.\n\nOn June 8, 2016, Italian news agency ANSA reported that Regeni's tutors at Cambridge University had declined to collaborate with the inquest into his murder, to the disappointment of investigators and Regeni's family. This had been anticipated by coverage in the Italian weekly \"L'Espresso\" on June 7, 2016, which reported that Regeni's tutor Maha Abdelrahman had followed advice from University lawyers not to collaborate with the inquest. The University of Cambridge strongly rejected the claims in a statement released to Varsity, the Cambridge student newspaper.\n\nDue to Regeni's research activities and left-wing political leanings, the Egyptian police is strongly suspected of involvement in his murder in Europe, although Egypt's media and government deny this, alleging secret undercover agents belonging to the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt carried out the crime in order to embarrass the Egyptian government and destabilize relations between Italy and Egypt.\n\nOn April 21, 2016, Reuters reported three Egyptian intelligence officials and three police sources independently claiming Regeni was in police custody at some time before his death. According to these sources he was picked up by plainclothes police officers near Gamal Abdel Nasser metro station together with another Egyptian man on the evening of January 25. Both men were then taken in a white minibus with police license plates to Izbakiya police station in downtown Cairo.\n\nShadowing foreigners was later dismissed by a Homeland Security official and the Interior Ministry as day-to-day work bearing no implications, and Egyptian general prosecutor Nabeel Sadek confirmed that Cairo police had received a report on Giulio Regeni on January 7, 2016, and that the Egyptian National Security Agency had been monitoring Regeni.\n\nOn December 7, 2016, a joint statement of Egyptian and Italian prosecutors, released following a two-day summit in Rome, stated that Egyptian prosecutors had questioned the policemen who investigated Regeni's death in January, as well as those who killed the four gang members in March.\n\nOn August 15, 2017, journalist Declan Walsh collected in a \"New York Times\" article the statement of an anonymous Obama administration official who revealed that, in the weeks after Regeni's death, the United States acquired \"explosive proof that Egyptian security officials had abducted, tortured and killed Regeni\" and that \"Egypt's leadership was fully aware of the [death] circumstances\". \n\nWalsh writes that Italian investigators working in Egypt \"were hindered at every turn. Witnesses appeared to have been coached. Surveillance footage from the subway station near Regeni’s apartment had been deleted; requests for metadata from millions of phone calls were refused on the grounds that it would compromise the constitutional rights of Egyptian citizens.\"\n\nAfter the article, the Italian government denied that the Americans provided any actionable proof; AISE told the hint from the USA was of little benefit, since it came when the autopsy and investigation had already persuaded Italian investigators of Egypt's involvement, and Americans refused to reveal anything more specific, like names of involved people or institutions.\n\nOn December 21, 2017, the Italian investigators led by Giuseppe Pignatone flew to Cairo to meet the Egyptian prosecutor Nabel Sadek and his team. The Egyptian team submitted new reports, including the progress on the recovery of surveillance cameras footage. The Italians had carefully examined and cross linked all the evidence available to them until then, and provided a detailed explanation for the facts.\n\nFor kidnapping, they reiterated and pinpointed the allegations against major Magdi Ibrqaim Abdlaal Sharif, captain Osan Helmy, and three other people of Egyptian National Security Agency. For red herring, which included the killings on March 24, 2016, they blamed captain Mahmud Hendy and other people of the local police.\n\nThe gruesome torture and murder of Giulio Regeni sparked global outrage, with more than 4,600 academics signing a petition calling for an investigation into his death and into the many disappearances that take place in Egypt each month, while on February 24, 2016, Amnesty International Italy launched a campaign \"Verità per Giulio Regeni\" (\"Truth about Giulio Regeni\"). UK Parliament petition No. 120832 was created by Hannah Waddilove, a former Giulio Regeni's colleague at Oxford Analytica, in February 2016. UK involvement was solicited on the rationale that freedom of thought, expression, and press are not meaningful if they cannot be backed by freedom of research. Hence active steps were expected from the U.K. in order to protect operations carried out by personnel belonging to its universities. The petition reached 10,000 signatures next April, the Parliament renewed their offer of assistance. An online petition was also started on Change.org that received more than 100,000 signatures.\n\nOn March 10, 2016, the European Parliament in Strasbourg passed a motion for a resolution condemning the torture and killing of Giulio Regeni and the ongoing human rights abuses of the al-Sisi government in Egypt. The resolution was passed with an overwhelming majority.\n\nIn April 2016, Italy recalled its ambassador to Egypt due to a lack of co-operation, during the investigation, from the Egyptian authorities.\n\nIn May 2016, Italian weekly magazine \"L'Espresso\" set up a secure platform based on GlobaLeaks technology to collect testimonials about torture and human rights abuse from Egyptian whistleblowers – and to seek justice for Giulio Regeni and for every Regeni in Egypt.\n\nOn January 25, 2017, first anniversary of his disappearance, thousands of people gathered to remember Giulio Regeni in Rome, Milano, Fiumicello, and other Italian towns.\n\nOn 1 May 2017, Pope Francis confirmed that the Vatican is taking steps to investigate the situation: \"The Holy See has taken some steps. I will not say how or where, but we have taken some steps\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20639044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20639044", "title": "National Film Festival for Talented Youth", "text": "National Film Festival for Talented Youth\n\nThe National Film Festival for Talented Youth (NFFTY- pronounced nifty), held annually in Seattle, Washington, showcases work by filmmakers 24 and under from across the U.S. and the world. It was created in 2007 with the goal of becoming the most influential youth-oriented film festival in North America. The festival includes film screenings, filmmaking workshops and panels, concerts by youth bands, and a gala opening night.\n\nThe National Film Festival for Talented Youth (NFFTY) and its non-profit parent organization, The Talented Youth, were founded by Jesse Harris, Jocelyn R.C., and Kyle Seago. Harris wrote and directed the feature film \"Living Life\" when he was 17, which obtained theatrical and television distribution. This resulted in young filmmakers around the globe seeking his advice including R.C., who expressed her interest in helping to form a creative youth organization. Harris and R.C. teamed up with Seago, establishing the non-profit and holding a one night \"Kick Off\" festival April 26, 2007.\n\nNFFTY was expanded to a three-day festival. NFFTY Earth, a campaign to promote the power of film to bring positive changes to the environment and support social justice and encourage peace and partnership with other countries, was added to festival programming. Year round young artist and community education activities were added through the program NFFTY 365.\n\nNFFTY 2008 included 73 film screenings, 9 industry panels and workshops over a three-day period. There were 1,800 attendees. At least one film screened at the event, \"March Point\", received wider distribution through PBS.\n\nNFFTY continued as a three-day festival, increasing its screenings from 73 to 113, including international entries for the first time. As part of its NFFTY Earth Campaign, NFFTY 2009 was certified as a carbon neutral event by carbonfund.org. A NFFTY Earth Benefit CD was produced, featuring 13 new songs from contemporary youth bands.\n\nNFFTY 2009 increased its screenings from 73 to 113, including international entries for the first time. More than 4,000 people attended.\n\nThe organization agreed to add an additional day to the festival schedule, due to the higher than expected volume of entries. The 2010 festival featured 190 films from 33 states and 16 countries, and with over 6,000 people in attendance. A 48-hour film contest and industry speed networking were added as events.\n\nNFFTY 2010 added an extra day to the festival due to the increase in submissions and attendees. Nearly 7,000 people attended.\n\nWith more than 600 film submissions, the festival screened 225 entries from more than 20 countries and 40 US states. Once again Nike sponsored a 48-hour student filmmaking competition, and presented a keynote panel with \"Social Network\" Producer Dana Brunetti, Web series pioneer Hayden Black, Studio marketing leader Valerie van Galder, Microsoft head of Global Community Affairs Tim Dubel, and documentary filmmaker Stan Emert. Oscar-winning filmmaker, Martin Strange-Hansen led a masterclass workshop in story structure.\n\nNFFTY 2011 took place April 28 - May 1 and, with submissions from more than 20 countries and 40 US states, this year's festival screened 225 films, before an audience of about 10,000.\n\nNFFTY 2012 included the Future of Film Expo trade show, the first of its kind to the festival. which included eight panels, 14 workshops and 30 exhibitors. NFFTY 2012 took place April 26 - April 30 with submissions from 60+ countries and 40 US states, screening 222 films, before an audience of over 10,000.\n\nNFFTY 2013 was held from April 25–28, 2013 in Seattle, Washington. Out of nearly 700 entries worldwide, programmers selected 215 films to screen during the 4-day festival. The films of NFFTY 2013 represented 30 U.S. States and 20 Countries.\n\nNFFTY 2014 took place April 24 - April 27 with 214 films from around the world. The youngest filmmaker in 2014 was seven years old. 2014's festival included the launch of a Young Women in Film initiative to address the issue of gender inequality in film. \"In an industry where only 9% of directors and 25% of producers are women, NFFTY wants to provide opportunities where emerging female filmmakers can feel supported to pursue their passions,\" Stefanie Malone said, upon launching this initiative. In 2014, 40% of films coming from female directors as well as the launch of the \"Best Emerging Female Filmmaker\" award on Closing Night, which was presented to Morgana McKenzie. Highlights from the festival included an animation panel that featured animators Daniel Lund (Frozen), Wilbert Plijnaar (Despicable Me, Ice Age), Connie Thomspon (Frankenweenie) and Amos Sussigan (Swan Cake) to talk about story in animation.\n\nIn the last year, NFFTY has continued to build a NFFTY Creative brand, working with companies to produce original content with NFFTY Filmmakers. In spring of 2015, NFFTY was awarded the ADDY Gold Award and the AVA Platinum Award for the production of the NFFTY Original Documentary - A Supporting Role.\n\nNFFTY 2015 took place April 23–26, featuring 248 films from 30 states and 25 countries. The festival increased the age limit to 24 years in an effort to better support emerging filmmakers. With the continuing commitment to combating gender inequity in the industry, 48% of the 2015 festival lineup included female directors. NFFTY also presented Femme Finale - a special Closing Night screening with some of the best films by NFFTY female filmmakers, presented by Cornish College of the Arts. A scholarship to Cornish College of the Arts was awarded to Kira Bursky for \"Best Emerging Female Filmmaker\", and Barry Briggs for \"Best Emerging Northwest Filmmaker\".\n\nNFFTY 2016 marked ten years of NFFTY! NFFTY received over 1,000 entries with 227 films selected, representing 33 states and 24 countries. Continuing to grow its programming, NFFTY launched its first annual screenwriting competition, Story Starts Here. And NFFTY took its first steps into VR/360 filmmaking with a panel discussion and product demos at its 10th festival, as well as a continuing commitment to Works-In-Progress and our Young Women in Film initiative and once again took home \"One of the 50 Best Festivals Worth the Entry Fee\" by MovieMaker Magazine\n\nNFFTY 2017, the 11th anniversary, will be held April 27 – April 30 in Seattle, WA. NFFTY 2017 is the largest festival yet, marking eleven years of NFFTY! NFFTY received over 1,200 entries with 257 films selected, representing 27 countries and 28 US states. NFFTY launched the inaugural NFFTYX, an exploration and celebration of 360° and virtual reality. In partnership with fearless360°, NFFTY is presenting a 360° gallery, bootcamp and VR/360° panel at NFFTY 2017 - the first of its kind targeted specifically at youth makers. NFFTY welcomes special guest speakers this year, including Chris Moore (producer, Oscar-winning Good Will Hunting, Manchester by the Sea) and Danish writer/directors Wikke & Rasmussen. NFFTY continues its commitment to women in film with a fourth straight year of over 40% of female filmmakers. NFFTY is included in Culture Vulture's \"10 Best Film Festivals Worth Your Time in 2017\"\n\n\n\n\nThe NFFTY Alumni Advisory Board consists of past NFFTY filmmakers whose primary role is to advise the NFFTY staff and Board of Directors on best serving and supporting young filmmakers. The Alumni Advisory Board was announced in Fall 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38182534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38182534", "title": "Paniyiri Greek Festival", "text": "Paniyiri Greek Festival\n\nThe Paniyiri Greek Festival is held in May each year in Musgrave Park, Brisbane, Australia. The festival was started in 1976, and is the longest running cultural festival in Queensland, and the longest running Greek festival in Australia. It was initiated by Father Gregory Sakellariou, with the aim of bringing the Greek community together and sharing their culture with the people of Brisbane. The festival is famous for its food, music and Hellenic dancing. Crowds of up to 60,000 people flock to the two-day festivities, and over a thousand volunteers help in the running of Queensland’s largest festival.\n\nIn 2009 as part of the Q150 celebrations, the Paniyiri Greek Festival was announced as one of the Q150 Icons of Queensland for its role as an \"event and festival\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6574971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6574971", "title": "Roman Turovsky-Savchuk", "text": "Roman Turovsky-Savchuk\n\nRoman Turovsky-Savchuk (Ukrainian: Роман Туровський-Савчук) is an American artist-painter, photographer and videoinstallation artist, as well as a lutenist-composer, born in Ukraine. His musical works were published under various pseudonyms, including Johann Joachim Sautscheck.\n\nTurovsky was born in Kiev, Ukraine in 1961, when it was part of the Soviet Union. He studied art from an early age under his father, the painter Mikhail Turovsky and at the Shevchenko State Art School in Kiev. He also began to be interested in music in his teens. The family emigrated to New York City in 1979. They first lived in the Bronx. Turovsky continued his art studies in New York at the Parsons School of Design, studying concurrently Historical Performance (Baroque Lute) and Composition, under Patrick O'Brien, Pier Luigi Cimma, Leonid Hrabovsky and Davide Zannoni.\n\nDuring the early 1990s, he worked at NYANA, a refugee resettlement agency in New York City (his co-workers there included people now prominent in the arts: theatre director Alexander Gelman, writer and director Todd Solondz, and writers Alex Halberstadt and Gary Shteyngart).\n\nTurovsky began composing seriously in the early 1990s, simultaneously embarking on a career as a prolific artist-painter. He participated in many exhibitions. His first one-man show was held in June 2006 in New York, and the second in February 2013. Eight of his paintings are in the permanent collection of the International Marian Institute at the University of Dayton.\n\nTurovsky worked as a scenic artist in the production of Jim Jarmusch's film \"Ghost Dog\", Paul Schrader's \"First Reformed\" as well as in Tom DiCillo's \"Double Whammy\" and other films. He is a member of United Scenic Artists.\n\nAs a composer, Turovsky concentrated on the instrumental idiom of the Baroque lute and the torban, as well as viola da gamba and carillon. He composed over 1100 instrumental and vocal works influenced by his Ukrainian heritage and the baroque. Many of these were premiered by Luca Pianca at several international festivals (Salamanca, Lisbon, Schwetzingen, Vilnius, Vicenza, Urbino, Metz and Paris), Roland Ferrandi in Corte, Simon Paulus at Wolfenbüttel and Jindřich Macek in Přibyslav, Kraty, Prague and Hvar. He also collaborated with Paulo Galvão and Hans Kockelmans in a series of experimental works which they jointly composed. His works have been performed/recorded by Robert Barto, Robert MacKillop, Oleg Timofeyev, Massimo Marchese, John Schneiderman, Thomas Schall, Trond Bengtson, Terrell Stone, Christopher Wilke and Bernhard Hofstötter on lute, Angelo Barricelli and Fernando Lewis de Mattos on guitar, Ernst Stolz on viola da gamba, as well as Hans Kockelmans and Olesya Rostovskaya on carillon. In 2011 and 2013 Turovsky was profiled in two 1 hour-long programs on the Dutch Classical radio-station Concertzender. He also composed over 40 tombeaux dedicated to various cultural figures. These were described by Pablo del Pozo as being of \"unquestionable musical quality\".\n\nAs a performer, Turovsky-Savchuk appeared as a lute soloist and continuo player in the Early Music line-up of Julian Kytasty's \"New York Bandura Ensemble\" and \"Radio Banduristan\". Roman Turovsky was a recipient of the 2008 NYSCA grant for the purpose of study of kobzar art with Julian Kytasty.\n\nRoman Turovsky-Savchuk is a founding member of Vox Saeculorum and The Delian Society, two international groups devoted to preservation and perpetuation of tonal music. He was described as composer-extraordinaire by the British author Suhayl Saadi.\n\nIn 2011 Turovsky-Savchuk contributed the soundtrack to the Iryna Korpan's documentary \"She Paid The Ultimate Price\", and in 2013 to the Marko Robert Stech's Georgy Narbut episode in the KontaktTV Toronto (OMNI TV (Canada)) series \"Eyes on Culture\" №55.\n\n\nSince 1996 Turovsky has signed his musical works as \"Sautscheck\", a German transliteration of the second part of his surname as an allonym. Turovsky used a variety of constructions, such as Joachim Peter, Johann Joachim, and Konradin Aemilius, for first names attached to Sautscheck. He represented the works as newly discovered manuscripts by supposed 17th-, 18th- and 19th-century composers from several generations of the same family.\n\nHis works for lute achieved wide circulation under the allonym of Sautscheck and the pseudonyms \"Ioannes Leopolita\" and \"Jacobus Olevsiensis\". Musicologist Douglas Alton Smith perceived these works as malicious hoaxes and forgeries because of their ostensibly baroque or earlier styles. The controversy in 2000 over what some considered an outright hoax led to coinage of a new German word, \"Sautscheckerei\", which denoted a musical or literary hoax.\n\nTurovsky published \"Mikrokosmos\", a collection of nearly 600 Renaissance-styled pieces based on Ukrainian folk melodies under the pseudonyms \"Ioannes Leopolita\" and \"Jacobus Olevsiensis\".\n\nTurovsky's poetry translations (from Russian, Ukrainian, Polish and other languages) have appeared in the literary almanacs Cardinal Points, \"The Germ\", and various web publications.\n\nHe also undertook research into the history of Torban, a Ukrainian musical instrument of the lute family, and wrote the chapter on it for the 2011 edition of \"Die Laute in Europa\".\n\n"}
{"id": "77609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77609", "title": "Sergeant York (film)", "text": "Sergeant York (film)\n\nSergeant York is a 1941 American biographical film about the life of Alvin York, one of the most-decorated American soldiers of World War I. It was directed by Howard Hawks and was the highest-grossing film of the year.\n\nThe film was based on the diary of Sergeant Alvin York, as edited by Tom Skeyhill, and adapted by Harry Chandlee, Abem Finkel, John Huston, Howard E. Koch, and Sam Cowan (uncredited). York refused, several times, to authorize a film version of his life story, but finally yielded to persistent efforts in order to finance the creation of an interdenominational Bible school. The story that York insisted on Gary Cooper for the title role derives from the fact that producer Jesse L. Lasky recruited Cooper by writing a plea that he accept the role and then signed York's name to the telegram.\n\nCooper went on to win the Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal. The film also won for Best Film Editing and was nominated in nine other categories, including Best Picture, Director (Hawks), Supporting Actor (Walter Brennan), and Supporting Actress (Margaret Wycherly). The American Film Institute ranked the film 57th in the its 100 most inspirational American movies. It also rated Alvin York 35th in its list of the top 50 heroes in American cinema.\n\nIn 2008, \"Sergeant York\" was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nAlvin York, a poor young farmer from the rural area near Pall Mall, Tennessee, lives a hardscrabble existence in a community whose poverty and isolation leave them with a lifestyle hardly different from people of a century earlier. He is an exceptional marksman, but a ne'er-do-well prone to drinking and fighting, which does not make things any easier for his long-suffering, widowed mother. \n\nAlvin's farm is on rocky land high in the mountains, which barely supports him and his siblings. He meets a sweet-natured local girl, Gracie Williams, and works night and day at strenuous odd jobs to accumulate the payment for a fertile \"bottomland\" farm so she'll marry him. The owner, Tomkins, gives Alvin sixty days to raise the purchase price. On the day the last payment is due, Alvin wins the final needed amount at a target-shooting contest, but discovers Tomkins has reneged and sold the farm to Alvin's romantic rival, Zeb Andrews, keeping all of the partial payments Alvin had made. Alvin drinks heavily and swears revenge.\nThat night, en route to attack Tomkins and Andrews, the rifle Alvin is holding is struck by lightning, splitting the barrel in two and knocking him off his mule. Similar to the biblical conversion of Paul, York survives the lightning strike and undergoes a religious awakening when he joins a revival meeting at the nearby church, vowing never to get drunk or angry again. He makes amends with the men who cheated him out of the land, while Gracie points out that her love is tied to him and not the bottomland.\n\nWhen the U.S. enters World War I and York is drafted into the army, he tries to avoid induction into the Army as a conscientious objector, but is denied since his church has no official standing. He reluctantly reports to Camp Gordon for basic training, where he is harassed because of his objector status, but his superiors eventually discover that he is a phenomenal marksman and decide to promote him to corporal.\n\nYork still wants nothing to do with the Army and killing. Major Buxton, his sympathetic commanding officer, tries to change York's mind, citing sacrifices made by others throughout the history of the United States. He gives York a leave to go home and think it over. He promises York a recommendation for his exemption as a conscientious objector if York remains unconvinced.\n\nWhile York is fasting and pondering, the wind blows his Bible open to the verse \"Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's.\" York reports back for duty and tells his superiors that he can serve his country, despite not having everything figured out to his satisfaction, leaving the matter in God's hands.\n\nHis unit is shipped out to Europe and participates in an attack during the Meuse-Argonne Offensive on October 8, 1918. Pinned down by deadly machine gun fire, the lieutenant orders Sergeant Early to take some men and try to attack the machine gun nests from behind. York suddenly finds himself the last remaining unwounded non-commissioned officer in the detachment, and is placed in command by Early.\n\nSeeing his comrades being shot down all around him, his self-doubt disappears. He works his way to a position flanking the main enemy trench and, as a sniper, fires individual rifle shots with such devastating effect that the Germans surrender. Then, York forces a captured officer at gunpoint to order the Germans still fighting in another section of the line to also surrender. He and the handful of other survivors end up with 132 prisoners. York becomes a national hero and is awarded the Medal of Honor. When Major Buxton asks him why he did what he did, York explains that he was trying to save the lives of his men.\n\nArriving in New York City in early 1919, York receives a ticker tape parade and a key to the city. He is impressed with the Waldorf-Astoria hotel and its indoor electricity. Congressman Cordell Hull guides him through the city and informs him that he has been offered opportunities to commercialize on his fame, all totaling around $250,000 (for context, $ million today). York mentions the bottomland he wanted and Hull responds he could buy it with the money. York rejects the offers, however, saying that he was not proud of what he did in the war, but it had to be done, and he will not profit from his fame. He tells Hull he wants to go home. He returns to Tennessee greeted by Gracie and his family. To his surprise, the people of his home state have bought him the bottomland farm he wanted and built him a house on the land.\n\nCredited\n</br>\n</br>\nUncredited\n\"Sergeant York\" was a spectacular success at the box office and became the highest-grossing film of 1941. It remains one of the highest-grossing films of all time when adjusted for inflation. It benefited from the attack on Pearl Harbor, which occurred while the film played in theaters. The film's patriotic theme helped recruit soldiers; young men sometimes went directly from the movie theater to military enlistment offices. After its initial release, the film was frequently re-shown at theaters all over America during the war as a quick replacement for box office flops and as a theme program for bond sales and scrap drives.\n\nAt the 14th Academy Awards, the film won two Oscars:\n\nIt was also nominated for:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2899191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2899191", "title": "Swedish Touring Car Championship", "text": "Swedish Touring Car Championship\n\nSwedish Touring Car Championship (STCC) was a touring car racing series based in Sweden, but also with rounds in Norway. They began operating in 1996, heavily influenced by the British Touring Car Championship and the success of BTCC racing on Swedish television. There are also a number of support classes that compete with their races alongside STCC; Radical, the Camaro Cup, Superkart, Pro Superbike, the JTCC and the Porsche Carrera Cup Scandinavia. The final STCC season was in 2010, as the series merged with the Danish Touringcar Championship to form the Scandinavian Touring Car Championship.\n\nThe cars are built according to the Super 2000 rules used in the FIA WTCC. A national counterpart, N2000, also exists to encourage teams to build their own cars without having to have them homologated by FIA. So far Audi, Volvo, Opel, and Mercedes have constructed their own cars.\n\nPoints System (as of 2006)\nQualifying & Race<br>\nEvery racing weekend consist of the following:\n\nSTCC was first aired in 1997 on SVT, featured in the program called \"Race\" along with the British Touring Car Championship. BTCC was dropped by SVT at the end of the 1999 season and was replaced by CART, while STCC stayed. When BTCC, which had been the main focus of Race, was dropped, STCC was upgraded to be the series which the program had its focus on. Previously when BTCC and STCC clashed, the STCC races were shown in-between the two BTCC races. This was changed for the 2000 season, and now CART was shown in-between the two STCC races. In 2002 VEIDEC Trophy, a motorcycle class that raced on the STCC-weekends, replaced CART on the program. All Race programs were either 30 or 45 minutes in length, depending on if one or two series were featured.<br>\nIn 2003 STCC coverage moved from SVT to TV4. The program was now shown on TV4 Plus, a channel which not everyone had access to (at the time only SVT1, SVT2 and TV4 was available to all viewers for free). TV4 only kept STCC for a year, selling it to TV3. The races appeared again in a highligts format on TV3 during 2004, but in 2005 the coverage was extended to include several hours of live coverage from each race weekend on the TV3-owned sports channel Viasat Sport.<br>\nIn 2006 STCC returned to SVT and Race, again being available to all viewers, but coverage was cut down to only a 30-minute highlight program.\nNowadays the competition is broadcast by another TV3-owned channel, Viasat Motor. \n\nThe cars competing in the STCC are (as of 2010): Alfa Romeo, BMW, Chevrolet, Honda, Opel, Peugeot, Seat, Volkswagen and Volvo.\n\n"}
{"id": "5470102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5470102", "title": "The Realist", "text": "The Realist\n\nThe Realist was a pioneering magazine of \"social-political-religious criticism and satire\", intended as a hybrid of a grown-ups version of \"Mad\" and Lyle Stuart's anti-censorship monthly \"The Independent.\" Edited and published by Paul Krassner, and often regarded as a milestone in the American underground or countercultural press of the mid-20th century, it was a nationally-distributed newsstand publication as early as 1958. Publication was discontinued in 2001.\n\nFirst published in the spring of 1958 in New York City in the offices of \"Mad\", \"The Realist\" appeared on a fairly regular schedule during the 1960s and then on an irregular schedule after the early 1970s. In 1984, it was revived as a much smaller newsletter. Articles and cartoons from the magazine were collected in a book, \"The Best of the Realist\" (Running Press, 1984). The final issue of \"The Realist\" was #146 (Spring 2001).\n\n\"The Realist\" provided a format for extreme satire in its articles, cartoons and Krassner's editorials, but it also carried more traditionally serious material in articles and interviews. The magazine also published political commentary from Norman Mailer, Ken Kesey and Joseph Heller.\n\nThe first hoax directed toward mainstream culture involved the 1960 edition of the NBC show \"Masquerade Party\". Typically, television network executives would react swiftly and fearfully to viewer complaints, no matter how small or unjustified the viewer response. Testing this premise, angry letters containing no specific complaints at all were sent in response to a particular episode of the innocuous game show.\n\nAmong the more successful productions issued by Krassner was a red, white, and blue automobile bumper sticker, decorated with stars, which proclaimed \"Fuck Communism\". In advertising this item, Krassner advised that if anyone displaying the sticker received criticism, the critic should be told, \"Go back to Russia, you Commie lover.\"\nHis \"Disneyland Memorial Orgy\" poster, illustrated by Wally Wood and published in the May 1967 issue, was a highlight of the magazine, so successful that Krassner printed it as a poster that was widely pirated. The poster has been upgraded by Krassner into a new, digitally-colored version.\n\nThere is a section of the image, on the left-hand side, that shows Snow White being harassed by five of the seven dwarfs, whilst the other two engage in anal sex nearby. This scene has been printed (often modified to be more explicit) on t-shirts and worn by punks with the title \"Snow White and the Sir Punks\", which have caused some offence.\n\nOther cartoonists featured in \"The Realist\" included Howard Shoemaker, Dick Guindon, Mort Gerberg, Bhob Stewart and Lou Myers.\n\nKrassner's most successful prank was \"The Parts That Were Left Out of the Kennedy Book\", a grotesque article following the censorship of William Manchester's book on the Kennedy assassination, \"The Death of a President\". At the climax of the short story, Lyndon B. Johnson is on Air Force One sexually penetrating the bullet-hole wound in the throat of JFK's corpse. Krassner acknowledged Marvin Garson, editor of the \"San Francisco Express Times\" and husband of Barbara Garson (author of the notorious anti-Johnson play \"MacBird!\" ), for coming up with that surreal image. According to Elliot Feldman, \"Some members of the mainstream press and other Washington political wonks, including Daniel Ellsberg of Pentagon Papers fame, actually believed this incident to be true.\" In a 1995 interview for the magazine \"Adbusters\", Krassner commented: \"People across the country believed – if only for a moment – that an act of presidential necrophilia had taken place. It worked because Jackie Kennedy had created so much curiosity by censoring the book she authorized – William Manchester's \"The Death Of A President\" – because what I wrote was a metaphorical truth about LBJ's personality presented in a literary context, and because the imagery was so shocking, it broke through the notion that the war in Vietnam was being conducted by sane men.\".\n\nIn 1967, the Canadian campus newspaper \"The McGill Daily\" published an excerpt from Krassner's story. The Montreal police confiscated the issue and Rocke Robertson, principal of McGill University, charged student John Fekete, the supplement editor responsible for the publication, before the Senate Discipline Committee.\n\n\"The Realist\" was the first satirical magazine to publish conspiracy theories. It was the first magazine to carry Mae Brussell's work on conspiracies, which covered the kidnapping of Patty Hearst, the Watergate scandal, the assassination of JFK and other conspiracy theories.\n\nWhen the magazine ran into financial difficulties in the 1970s, it was the conspiracy theory element that attracted ex-Beatle John Lennon to donate; saying, \"If anything ever happens to me...it won't be an accident.\"\n\nIn 2003, Italian satirist Daniele Luttazzi, whose production company is called \"Krassner Entertainment\", wrote the short story \"Stanotte e per sempre\" (Eng.: \"Tonight and forever\") about the assassination of Italian politician Aldo Moro. In the climax scene, Giulio Andreotti penetrates the bullet wounds in Aldo Moro's corpse. \n\nLewis Black included an excerpt, precisely the final part, from Krassner's story in his 2005 book \"Nothing's Sacred\".\n\nNotable contributors include:\n\n"}
{"id": "57925897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57925897", "title": "Timeline of the Trump presidency, 2018 Q4", "text": "Timeline of the Trump presidency, 2018 Q4\n\nThe following is a timeline of the presidency of Donald Trump during the fourth quarter of 2018. To navigate among quarters, see Timeline of the presidency of Donald Trump.\n\n"}
{"id": "1031984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1031984", "title": "UKUSA Agreement", "text": "UKUSA Agreement\n\nThe United Kingdom – United States of America Agreement (UKUSA, )\nis a multilateral agreement for cooperation in signals intelligence between Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The alliance of intelligence operations is also known as the Five Eyes. In classification markings this is abbreviated as FVEY, with the individual countries being abbreviated as AUS, CAN, NZL, GBR, and USA, respectively.\n\nEmerging from an informal agreement related to the 1941 Atlantic Charter, the secret treaty was renewed with the passage of the 1943 BRUSA Agreement, before being officially enacted on 5 March 1946 by the United Kingdom and the United States. In the following years, it was extended to encompass Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. Other countries, known as \"third parties\", such as West Germany, the Philippines, and several Nordic countries also joined the UKUSA community in associate capacities, although they are not part of mechanism for automatic sharing of intelligence that exists between the Five Eyes.\n\nMuch of the sharing of information is performed via the ultra-sensitive STONEGHOST network, which has been claimed to contain \"some of the Western world's most closely guarded secrets\". Besides laying down rules for intelligence sharing, the agreement formalized and cemented the \"Special Relationship\" between the UK and the US.\n\nDue to its status as a secret treaty, its existence was not known to the Prime Minister of Australia until 1973, and it was not disclosed to the public until 2005. On 25 June 2010, for the first time in history, the full text of the agreement was publicly released by the United Kingdom and the United States, and can now be viewed online. Shortly after its release, the seven-page UKUSA Agreement was recognized by \"Time\" magazine as one of the Cold War's most important documents, with immense historical significance.\n\nThe global surveillance disclosure by Edward Snowden has shown that the intelligence-sharing activities between the First World allies of the Cold War are rapidly shifting into the digital realm of the Internet.\n\nThe agreement originated from a ten-page 1943 British–U.S. Communication Intelligence Agreement, BRUSA, that connected the signal intercept networks of the U.K. Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) and the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) at the beginning of the Cold War. The document was signed on 5 March 1946 by Colonel Patrick Marr-Johnson for the U.K.'s London Signals Intelligence Board and Lieutenant General Hoyt Vandenberg for the U.S. State–Army–Navy Communication Intelligence Board. Although the original agreement states that the exchange would not be \"prejudicial to national interests\", the United States often blocked information sharing from Commonwealth countries. The full text of the agreement was released to the public on 25 June 2010.\n\nThe \"Five Eyes\" term has its origins as a shorthand for a \"AUS/CAN/NZ/UK/US EYES ONLY\" classification level.\n\nUnder the agreement, the GCHQ and the NSA shared intelligence on the Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China, and several eastern European countries (known as Exotics). The network was expanded in the 1960s into the Echelon collection and analysis network.\n\nThe treaty was extended to include Canada (1948), Australia (1956) and New Zealand (1956). In 1955, the agreement was updated to designate Canada, Australia and New Zealand as \"UKUSA-collaborating Commonwealth countries\". Other countries that joined as \"third parties\" were Norway (1952), Denmark (1954) and West Germany (1955).\n\nIn the aftermath of the 1973 Murphy raids on the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO), the existence of the UKUSA Agreement was revealed to Australia's Prime Minister Gough Whitlam. After learning about the agreement, Whitlam discovered that Pine Gap, a secret surveillance station close to Alice Springs, Australia, had been operated by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).\n\nAt the height of the 1975 Australian constitutional crisis, the use and control of Pine Gap by the CIA was strongly opposed by Whitlam, who fired the chief of the ASIO before being dismissed as prime minister.\n\nThe existence of several intelligence agencies of the Five Eyes was not revealed until the following years:\n\nIn 1999, the Australian government acknowledged that it \"does co-operate with counterpart signals intelligence organisations overseas under the UKUSA relationship.\"\n\nThe existence of the UKUSA Agreement, however, was not publicly revealed until 2005. The contents of the agreement were officially disclosed to the public on 25 June 2010. Four days later, the agreement was described by \"Time\" magazine as one of the \"most important documents in the history of the Cold War.\"\n\nIn July 2013, as part of the 2013 Edward Snowden revelations, it emerged that the NSA is paying GCHQ for its services, with at least £100 million of payments made between 2010 and 2013.\n\nOn 11 September 2013, \"The Guardian\" released a leaked document provided by Edward Snowden which reveals a similar agreement between the NSA and Israel's Unit 8200.\n\nAccording to \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", Australia operates clandestine surveillance facilities at its embassies \"without the knowledge of most Australian diplomats\". These facilities are part of an international espionage program known as STATEROOM.\n\nAlthough the UKUSA alliance is often associated with the ECHELON system, processed intelligence is reliant on multiple sources of information and the intelligence shared is not restricted to signals intelligence. The following table provides an overview of the government agencies involved and their respective responsibilities within the \"Five Eyes\" community:\n\nAlthough precise assignments are classified, it is generally known that each member of the UKUSA alliance takes lead responsibility for intelligence collection and analysis in different parts of the globe.\n\nThe \"Five Eyes\", often abbreviated as \"FVEY\", refer to an intelligence alliance comprising Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States. These countries are bound by the multilateral UKUSA Agreement, a treaty for joint cooperation in signals intelligence.\n\nAustralia monitors South Asia and East Asia.\n\nCanada's geographical proximity to the Soviet Union provided considerable eavesdropping advantages during the Cold War. Canada continues to monitor the Russian and Chinese interior while managing intelligence assets in Latin America.\n\nIn addition to Southeast Asia, New Zealand is responsible for the western Pacific and maintains listening posts in the South Island at Waihopai Valley just south-west of Blenheim, and on the North Island at Tangimoana.\n\nEurope, European Russia, Middle East, and Hong Kong.\n\nThe U.S. is focused on the Middle East, China, and Russia, in addition to the Caribbean and Africa.\n\nThe \"Five Eyes\" community is part of an extensive alliance of Western countries sharing signals intelligence with each other. These allied countries include NATO members, other European countries such as Sweden, and allies in the Pacific, in particular Singapore and South Korea.\n\nIn the 1950s several Nordic countries joined the community as \"third party\" participants. They were soon followed by Denmark (1954) and West Germany (1955).\n\nAccording to Edward Snowden, the NSA has a \"massive body\" called the Foreign Affairs Directorate that is responsible for partnering with other Western allies such as Israel.\n\nUnlike the \"second party\" members (that is, the Five Eyes themselves), \"third party\" partners are not automatically exempt from intelligence targeting. According to an internal NSA document leaked by Snowden, \"We (the NSA) can, and often do, target the signals of most 3rd party foreign partners.\"\n\nThe Five Eyes are cooperating with various 3rd Party countries in at least two groups:\n\nGermany is reportedly interested in moving closer to the inner circle: an internal GCHQ document from 2009 said that the \"Germans were a little grumpy at not being invited to join the 9-Eyes group.\" Germany may even wish to join Five Eyes. Referring to Five Eyes, French President François Hollande has said that his country is \"not within that framework and we don't intend to join.\" According to a former top U.S. official, \"Germany joining would be a possibility, but not France – France itself spies on the US far too aggressively for that.\"\n\nDuring the 2013 NSA leaks Internet spying scandal, the surveillance agencies of the \"Five Eyes\" have been accused of intentionally spying on one another's citizens and willingly sharing the collected information with each other, allegedly circumventing laws preventing each agency from spying on its own citizens.\n\nThe 2013 NSA leaks are not entirely new, but rather, they are a confirmation of earlier disclosures about the UK-US espionage alliance. For example, the British newspaper \"The Independent\" reported back in 1996 that the U.S. National Security Agency \"taps UK phones\" at the request of the British intelligence agency MI5, thus allowing British agents to evade restrictive limitations on domestic telephone tapping.\n\nThe mutual surveillance and sharing of information between allies of the UK and US resurfaced again during the 2013 mass surveillance disclosures. As described by the news magazine \"Der Spiegel\", this was done to circumvent domestic surveillance regulations:\n\nBritain's GCHQ intelligence agency can spy on anyone but British nationals, the NSA can conduct surveillance on anyone but Americans, and Germany's BND (Bundesnachrichtendienst) foreign intelligence agency can spy on anyone but Germans. That's how a matrix is created of boundless surveillance in which each partner aids in a division of roles.\n\nThey exchanged information. And they worked together extensively. That applies to the British and the Americans, but also to the BND, which assists the NSA in its Internet surveillance.\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", the \"Five Eyes\" community is an exclusive club where new members \"do not seem to be welcome\":\n\nIn 2013, Canadian federal judge Richard Mosley strongly rebuked the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) for outsourcing its surveillance of Canadians to overseas partner agencies. A 51-page ruling says that the CSIS and other Canadian federal agencies are illegally enlisting U.S. and British allies in global surveillance dragnets, while keeping domestic federal courts in the dark.\n\nThe following documents were jointly released by the NSA and the GCHQ in 2010:\n\nThe following documents were leaked by Edward Snowden during the course of the 2013 Global surveillance disclosure:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "173109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173109", "title": "Warped Tour", "text": "Warped Tour\n\nThe Warped Tour was a traveling rock tour that had toured the United States (including 3 or 4 stops in Canada) annually each summer from 1995 to 2018. It was the largest traveling music festival in the United States, and was the longest-running touring music festival in North America. The first Warped Tour took place in 1995, and the skateboard shoe manufacturer Vans became the main sponsor of the tour starting with the second tour in 1996, when it became known as the Vans Warped Tour. Although Vans continued to be the main sponsor and lended its name to the festival, other sponsors also participated with stages or other aspects of the festival sometimes being named after them.\n\nWarped Tour was conceived in 1995 as an eclectic alternative rock festival, but in 1996 began focusing on punk rock music. Although it has continued to be known primarily as a punk rock festival, it has included acts of diverse genres over the years.\n\nWarped Tour founder Kevin Lyman stated that the 2018 Vans Warped Tour would be the final, full cross-country run. Lyman did hint at a large celebration in 2019; the 25th year of the tour.\n\nThe band times and sets were found on an inflatable lineup, or can be purchased from a stand.\n\nEvery year there was a \"BBQ Band\". In exchange for the privilege of playing on the tour, the BBQ Band prepared the post-show barbecue held for the bands and crew most evenings. Past BBQ Bands have included Dropkick Murphys, Art of Shock and \"The Fabulous Rudies\". Similarly, one band, Animo (formerly DORK), has been permitted for the past four years to play on the tour in exchange for working on the setup crew. The \"BBQ Band\" for the 2016 tour was the band Reckless Serenade.\n\nThe tour started as a skate punk and third-wave ska tour, but later began to feature mostly pop punk and metalcore acts. There are also some hardcore and street punk bands, such as the Casualties, the Unseen and Anti-Flag, that still play Warped Tour, as well as older bands that have played the tour numerous times since its inception (Bad Religion, NOFX, etc.)\n\nThe tour wasn't set up in just one way; every show at every venue had a different layout. It was set up early in the morning during the set up crews' arrival and taken down usually during the last show of the day. When heading into Canada, there was a bus that loaded the supplies that headed into Canada while the other bus contains the equipment that stayed in the U.S. until the next show.\n\nIn 2013, Kevin Lyman decided to allow parents free admission to the Warped Tour. Citing issues such as transportation problems for minors and the audience member demographic opening up to a younger crowd every year, Lyman determined that parents accompanying their children would be allowed into the tour for free. Parents have their own adult day care. It was known as Reverse Day Care. Grown-ups could spend the day waiting for their children in the Reverse Day Care tent. There was ample seating and often fans or cooling devices to keep the parents occupied during the festival.\n\nThe Warped Tour was created in 1995 by Kevin Lyman, in production with the short lived Warp Magazine and Creative Artists Agency. The tour began June 21 at the Idaho Center in Boise, Idaho, and ended August 18 in Detroit.\nThe tour was usually held at outdoor venues, though on rare occasions it was held indoors. In 1996, due to problems with the venue where the event was to be held, the show was forced to be moved indoors to The Capitol Ballroom nightclub in Washington DC.\n\n1996 was the first year for Vans as a sponsor and they have been the main sponsor ever since carrying their name in the title.\n\nIn 1998, the tour went international, including venues in Australia, Japan, Europe, Canada, and the United States.\n\nIn 1999, the tour started off in New Zealand, Australia and Hawaii in the New Year. It then started up again in the United States for the northern hemisphere summer before ending up in Europe.\n\nThe Vans Warped Tour has turned eco-friendly by using biodiesel for the production buses.\n\nIn 2009, the two main stages were condensed into one and bands were given 40-minute sets, as opposed to the traditional 30 minutes across the previous two stages. Despite this, the tour decided to bring back the two main stages concept with 35-minute sets instead for the 2012 tour and beyond.\n\nIn 2012, the Warped Tour traveled to London, the first time the tour has left North America since 1999. In the UK and Europe, Warped Tour is operated by English promoter Kilimanjaro Live. The Warped Tour returned to London in 2015.\n\nOn February 10, 2009 details for the annual \"Warped Tour Kick Off Party\" were announced. The show took place on April 2, 2009 at The Key Club in West Hollywood, California and featured Warped Tour 2009 bands T.S.O.L., The Adolescents, Sing it Loud, TAT, and TV/TV on the bill. The tour won the Best Festival/Tour Award at the Rock on Request Awards.\n\nThe Warped Tour 2012 kick off party took place March 29, 2012 at Club Nokia in Los Angeles, California featuring performances by Falling in Reverse, The Used, Yellowcard, Dead Sara, Matt Toka and Forever Came Calling. During the Toronto date, a fan fell unconscious during Chelsea Grin and died. The band as well as Warped Tour offered their condolences on Twitter. For the first time in 14 years, Warped Tour was held in the UK in November 2012. This was also the first year the show Warped Roadies premiered. The show was a behind-the-scenes look at the inner workings of the Vans Warped Tour as it travels across the country with more than 60 bands.\n\nThe Warped Tour 2013 kick off party took place March 28, 2013 at Club Nokia in Los Angeles, California featuring performances by Chiodos, New Beat Fund, Gin Wigmore, MC Lars, Craig Owens, Dia Frampton, Charlotte Sometimes, Big Chocolate] Echosmith and special guests. The tour will once again return to Europe for the second year in a row with more tour dates. For the first time since 2001, Warped Tour will also appear in Australia.\n\nThe Warped Tour 2014 kick off party took place on April 1, 2014 at Club Nokia in Los Angeles, California featuring performances by Bad Rabbits, Issues, One Ok Rock, Secrets, This Wild Life, To the Wind, Watsky, Chelsea Grin, Beartooth, Volumes and more. The tour returned to Montreal for the first time in two years. On February 7, 2014, it was announced that the Warped Tour would visit Alaska for the first time for a pre-tour \"The Road to Warped\" show. The entire first date (June 13 at Houston) was streamed live on the tour's website. In June 2014, Kevin Lyman announced on Twitter that the UK segment of the 2014 tour would not go ahead. The San Diego stop was sponsored by Waveborn Sunglasses. As a part of celebrating the 20th anniversary of the tour, there have been surprise appearances from two bands, Linkin Park played at Ventura, California on June 22, 2014, and A Day to Remember played at Chicago, Illinois on July 19, 2014.\n\nThe Warped Tour 2015 kickoff party took place on April 7, 2015 at Club Nokia in Los Angeles, California featuring performances by As It Is, Bebe Rexha, New Years Day, Knuckle Puck, Metro Station, Candy Hearts, and New Beat Fund. The tour once again visited Alaska for \"The Road to Warped\" show. \nThe entire first date (June 19 at Pomona) was once again streamed live on the tour's website. The tour returned to Europe playing at the Alexandria Palace in London, UK on 18 October.\n\nThe Warped Tour 2016 announced the lineup on March 22 at the kickoff party at Full Sail University in Florida, featuring select performances by 2016 Warped bands. Headliners of this tour included Falling In Reverse, Less Than Jake, Good Charlotte, Sleeping With Sirens, New Found Glory, and others. The tour kicked off on June 24, 2016, in Dallas, TX and hit 41 cities throughout the summer, ending in Portland, OR on August 13, 2016. In addition to the 41 cities, there was a \"Road to Warped Tour Alaska\" on June 22, 2016.\n\nThe Warped Tour 2017 announced the lineup on March 22 at the kickoff party at Full Sail University in Florida. Headliners (Bands playing the Journeys Sponsored Stages) of this tour include Andy Black, Beartooth, Dance Gavin Dance, I Prevail, and New Years Day, among others. The tour kicked off on June 11, 2017, in Seattle, WA and will hit 41 cities throughout the summer, ending in Pomona, CA on August 6, 2017. In addition to the 41 cities, there will be one additional show with a separate lineup in Toluca, Mexico on May 27, 2017 and a \"Warped Rewind At Sea\" cruise that will sail between New Orleans, LA and Cozumel, Mexico from October 28 to November 1, 2017.\n\nOn November 15, 2017, Kevin Lyman announced that the 2018 Warped Tour will be the final year of operation. \"I am so grateful to have worked with more than 1,700 bands over the last 23 summers,\" Lyman said in his announcement. \"I wish I could thank every band that has played the tour.\" In addition, Warped Tour announced it would play in Japan for 2018. Headliners for the Japan Version are Korn (who have never played the festival), Prophets of Rage, and Limp Bizkit (who appeared at Warped Tour 1997) \n\nWarped Tour became a launching pad for many up and coming artists. The festival has been attributed to bringing unknown artists like Black Veil Brides, Avenged Sevenfold, Blink-182, Limp Bizkit, My Chemical Romance, Fall Out Boy, Paramore, MGK, Katy Perry and Yelawolf to the spotlight.\n\nThe Warped Tour gave artists like Will.i.am and the Black Eyed Peas a chance to perform. Black Eyed Peas were featured on the 1999 Vans Warped Tour. According to Will.i.am, the Black Eyed Peas were the first group not categorized as \"punk\" to play at Warped Tour.\n\n\nMusicians on the Vans Warped tour gave lessons. Percussive Marketing Council teamed up with the Vans Warped Tour and has given free drum lessons to the concert goers. The lessons were given at the Lesson Lab tent. These music lessons are for people who are learning to play drums for the first time. The lessons utilized electronic drumsets and acoustic drumsets. According to PMC Advisory Board Member Billy Cuthrell, having drum teachers from other percussion stores is the \"key\" to the free lessons program.\n\nIn 2005, the Vans Warped tour incorporated a multiple level stage that consisted of two levels for the band Street Drum Corps.\n\nMusic education was a big part of the Vans Warped Tour. Throughout the years, the Warped Tour utilized the John Lennon Bus to achieve this. The John Lennon Bus was started by Ben Roschild and Yoko Ono in 1968. The goal of the John Lennon Bus was to educate people about music who attended the Warped Tour. Brian Roschild is the executive director of the John Lennon Bus. Essentially, the John Lennon Bus is a mobile studio. The demographic that the bus is trying to educate is the younger generation. Not only do people from the public participate, but artists do as well. Artists like Eminem and Bowling For Soup have visited the tour bus. Other celebrities to use the bus include Fergie from the Black Eyed Peas, Natasha Bedingfield, and John Legend.\n\nThe Ernie Ball Battle of the Bands took place at Warped Tour every year. Over 10,000 bands tried out for the battle of the bands in 2005. The bands perform at their local Warped tour date and are judged by professionals from the music industry. If the bands do well in the competition, they get to perform as a side stage act on the Ernie Ball Stage of the Vans Warped Tour.\n\n\"Warped Tour is a place for teenage kids to go and hear all their favorite bands in one day,\" says Rob Pasalic, guitarist for the Saint Alvia Cartel. \"It wouldn’t make sense for it to be the same tour in 2007 as it was in 1997. These are the bands that kids like, and the tour is smart enough to grow and adapt to that. You still get bands like Bad Religion playing, so it’s not like it’s lost all its roots.\"\n\nJoe Queer of The Queers stated that\n\nYou play music because there's something inside of you that says you have to play music. Now you get bands like Fall Out Boy that are basically created in the studio. The Warped Tour changed it. Fuck it. I just don't like that shit. All the guys in the bands remind me of the jocks I hated in high school. To me a punk gig is a small sweaty club with the audience right in your face knocking over the mic stand and boogying off the energy.\n\nKeith Morris has stated \"These kids that are on the Warped Tour, they should have no choice but to go into the military, and go off to some desert somewhere and spend some time in the desert, rather than having some big, ultra mega record company giving them lots of money and paying for their hotels and buses, making sure their hair is trendy, and that they are wearing the proper clothes that all the kids like and wear, and all that fun shit.\" Morris' band the Circle Jerks would later appear on the 2007 edition of the tour.\n\nIn 2013, Oliver Sykes, lead vocalist of Bring Me the Horizon took to Twitter to pronounce that he was no longer allowed to start a mosh pit or wall of death. Kevin Lyman took to Twitter as well to say that audience members can create mosh pits and wall of deaths but that someone in the audience has to be the initiator and not a band member because then they are taking responsibility for any injuries which can then lead to costly lawsuits.\n\nOn July 1, 2015, it was announced that Front Porch Step would be playing the Nashville, TN tour stop, despite allegedly sexually harassing numerous young girls through explicit text messages, nude photographs, and phone sex. Many bands, including The Wonder Years, Senses Fail, Handguns, and Beartooth asked attendees to not go to McElfresh's set. The Wonder Years' lead singer Dan “Soupy” Campbell, who was supposed to perform after Front Porch Step on the Acoustic Basement Stage, asked fans to go see Man Overboard at 1:15pm, the time the acoustic set would take place. Lyman responded by saying,\n\nHe was only supposed to be here long enough to play his show but the weather today has been putting us behind schedule. He wasn't added to the tour, so those claims that he was ‘added to sell tickets’ are completely groundless.\n\nHe also said because McElfresh had still not been formally charged with any misconduct, he agreed to have him perform. \"If he was a danger to anyone, he simply would not have been here.\"\n\nOn July 11, 2016, Vans Warped Tour announced that Virginia pro-life organization Rock For Life would be one of the vendors on their 41 tour dates. Rock For Life are known for co-opting punk aesthetics with their logo of a fetus playing a guitar, T-shirts with the phrase “All Lives Matter”. Bands such as Safe To Say and Old Wounds have spoken out against the organization, with Safe To Say, replying to Rock For Life's tweet, saying\n\nYes. Everyday. We are a pro choice band. A tent telling young women what to do with their body has no place here.\n\nOn June 26, 2017, a video surfaced of the punk rock band The Dickies verbally abusing a crowd member after protests against the band, including signs that said \"Our teenage girls don't need to be subjected to derogatory jokes by a disgusting old man\" and \"Punk isn't predatory\" took place. While Lyman did initially say that the band was no longer on the Warped Tour roster, he released a statement on July 1 that said the band was not kicked off of the tour and that the altercation was between the band's frontman, Leonard Graves Phillips, and a member of the touring party.\n\nI thought it was time to put the facts out since I have watched false information floating around. A video has been circulating of a confrontation between Leonard from the Dickies and a Fan. Fact- it was not a Fan, but a member of the touring party. The member of the touring party was standing next to the PA with a sign protesting some of the things they found offensive about the bands jokes, and props on stage. During one of the last songs they went towards the barricade and directed the sign at the band. After a verbal barrage from Leonard, the member of the touring party threw the sign at Leonard, and left the area. I do not condone verbal or physical violence, whatsoever. The Dickies, last day of the tour was that Sunday, which had always been scheduled. These are the facts of what took place and this is why I ask anyone who has an issue with anyone else on tour, to come sit under my tent with me and express their views diplomatically. On this years tour we have many people who may not agree with each other, but as humans we should be able to express our points of view in a civil manner. If we have any hope to progress as a society, communication will be key in moving forward.\n\nA few bands have left the tour due to conflicts they had with the tour or with other bands:\n\n\nThe Vans Warped Tour was sponsored by Vans, and in the final years Journeys joined as sponsor. Kevin Lyman was offered sponsorship from Calvin Klein before eventually working with Vans. The tour also was sponsored by Samsung, which allowed the bands and fans to interact with one another. The schedule for the day was sent out to the fans the day of their show. Samsung also sponsored a reverse day care for the Warped tour, which allows parents to cool off and their children to watch their favorite bands. Warped Tour also partnered with other technology companies like Cingular Wireless, Apple Computer and many others. This allows these companies to reach to younger audiences. The communications manager from Memorex stated that Warped Tour allows them to reach a younger demographic due because of the music that these people are \"passionate about.\" At one point in time, Warped Tour also provided the attendees internet service while at the festival. Chaos Mobile was formed by Kevin Lyman and John Reese of Freeze Artist Management.\n\nActivism was a major component of the Vans Warped Tour. Warped Tour allowed for non-profit organizations such as Invisible Children, To Write Love On Her Arms, Shirts for a Cure, Keep A Breast Foundation, and Hope For The Day to advocate about their cause. Other causes that were represented at Warped Tour were Music Saves Lives and Earth Echo. Earth Echo promotes recycling. They also provide a solar powered stage. Keep A Breast is another organization on the Vans Warped Tour. Keep A Breast educates women about Breast Cancer and preventative measures against the disease. This organization worked in conjunction with the Girlz Garage on the Vans Warped Tour. People who donate to the cause are given T-shirts signed by artists on the tour to spread awareness of Breast Cancer.\n\nIn March 2016, it was announced that Warped Tour would be teaming up with A Voice For The Innocent to address the issue of sex crimes in the music scene.\n\nThe Vans Warped Tour contributed 25 cents from every ticket sold to an organization called Hollywood Heart. Warped Tour also gave money to the relief efforts for Hurricane Katrina. Warped Tour and the Taste of Chaos, (a festival) worked together to contribute $500,000\n\nThe bands on the Warped Tour often brought their own musical equipment. However, Industrial Sound also provided equipment for bands to use while on the Vans Warped Tour. Daniel Bonneau, the lead sound engineer, stated that Industrial Sound is a company that he \"relies\" on to provide equipment for the festival. Bonneau also states that the bands are not able to do traditional soundchecks and bands have to do line checks.\n\nAn official Warped Tour compilation CD was released annually by SideOneDummy Records to coincide with the start of the tour. Prior to 1998 the official releases were handled by Vans via Uni Distribution in 1996 and Epitaph Records in 1997 respectively. The compilation included songs by numerous artists performing on the tour that year. The first few compilations had varying titles, but since 2001 the series has used a standard title with the format \"Warped Tour <year> Tour Compilation.\" In 2002 the compilation expanded onto 2 CDs totalling 50 artists, a format which the series has followed in all subsequent years. The Warped Tour compilation album in 2002 charted at number 55.\n\nIn addition, the digital music service Rhapsody.com released a regular \"Warped Tour Bootleg Series,\" with each entry focusing on a single artists performing on the tour. Past Bootleg Series artists have included Matchbook Romance, My Chemical Romance, Bedouin Soundclash, MxPx, The Starting Line, Millencolin, Avenged Sevenfold, Gogol Bordello, Motion City Soundtrack, The Casualties, Anti-Flag, Less Than Jake, Rise Against, Joan Jett & The Blackhearts, Helmet, and The Academy Is...\n\n"}
{"id": "10676231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10676231", "title": "World Congress of Soil Science", "text": "World Congress of Soil Science\n\nThe World Congress of Soil Science (WCSS) is a conference held every four years (although interrupted by World War II) under the guidance of the International Union of Soil Sciences (IUSS). The purpose of a congress is to: (i) ensure the advancement of soil science and its application, and (ii) to handle the business of the society. Of the 18 congresses, eight have been held in Europe, five in the Americas, three in Asia, one in Australia and one in Africa. The congresses are only open to society members. The number of members attending has steadily increased, with approximately 2000 members attending each congress since the 15th WCSS in Acapulco, Mexico.\n\nThe 19th WCSS was held in the week of 1 to 6 August 2010 in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia at the Brisbane Convention and Exhibition Centre. The congress theme was ”\"Soil solutions for a changing world\"”. The conference was organised by the IUSS President (Roger Swift) and Vice-President (Neal Menzies). The 19th WCSS was the second congress held in Australia (the 9th WCSS was held in Adelaide, Australia, in 1968), and was held in conjunction with the Australian Society of Soil Science Incorporated.\nThe 20th WCSS was held from 8 to 13 June 2014 on Jeju-do Island, South Korea\nThe 21st WCSS was held in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil) in August 2018. The upcoming WCSS are 2022 in Glasgow (Scotland, United Kingdom) and 2026 in Nanjing (China).\n\nPast and future locations for the WCSS:\n\n"}
