{"id": "19141632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19141632", "title": "Alak language", "text": "Alak language\n\nAlak is a language spoken by some 4,000 people in southern Laos, especially in the Provinces of Salavan and Sekong (where the Alak people make up over a fifth of the population). It is closely related to the language spoken by the Bahnars of Vietnam. It includes two dialects, Alak proper and Harak.\n\n"}
{"id": "23606648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23606648", "title": "All About Us: Living and Growing", "text": "All About Us: Living and Growing\n\nAll About Us: Living and Growing is a British Sex and Relationships Education series for 5–13 year olds published by Channel 4 on VHS and DVD. The series is often referred to by its short name of \"Living and Growing\". It covers the differences between a boy and a girl, Puberty, how babies are made and how babies are born. The programmes were put into units 1, 2, 3 and 4.\n\nIn the first three units the programme includes gently introducing sex education to younger children, through puberty and birth, to media images, same-sex relationships and teenage pregnancy. The fourth unit covers puberty and body image in more detail with a focus on maintaining a healthy mind and body\n\nUnit 1 - Age 5-7\nDifferences | How did I get here? | Growing up\n\nUnit 2 - Age 7-9\nChanges | How babies are made | How babies are born\n\nUnit 3 - Age 9-11\nGirl talk | Boy talk | Let's talk about sex\n\nUnit 4 - Age 11-13\nPuberty | Body image | Making the right choices\n\nAs of July 7, 2012, the DVDs were removed from the Channel 4 product catalogue as a result of the Government’s announcement that the PSHE curriculum is under review. The Alternative version, featuring the first three units, was released in 2013 as the review had not taken place.\n\nIn the Alternative version Girl Talk and Boy Talk were moved to Unit 2 which now focuses mainly on puberty. How babies are made and How babies are born took their place in Unit 3 and the Let's talk about sex episode was dropped.\n\nThe program has come under scrutiny by parents because of its graphic depictions of sexual intercourse and foreplay in Unit 2, in which, among other scenes, it \"shows a naked cartoon couple pillow fighting before having sexual intercourse in several positions, as a narrator describes sex and its physical changes as \"fun and very exciting\". Although the Alternative version removed some of more explicit content concerns have still been expressed and it has been noted that the worksheets remain unchanged and the original DVDs were not recalled.\n"}
{"id": "26190345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26190345", "title": "American Society of African Culture", "text": "American Society of African Culture\n\nThe American Society of African Culture (AMSAC) was an organization of African-American writers, artists, and scholars. The society was founded as a result of the Congress of Negro Writers and Artists in 1956 based on the idea of the French \"\". In June 1957, the American Society of African Culture (AMSAC) was officially founded by five African American intellectuals. During its heyday in the early 1960s, AMSAC had around four hundred members. One of the main goals of the organisation was to expose African Americans to their African heritage. This aim was pursued through organising exhibitions, lectures, music performances, and conferences in the United States (primarily New York) and Africa (occasionally). AMSAC sponsored a two-day festival in Lagos, Nigeria in December 1961. After 1967, AMSAC's membership sharply declined after it was named as one of the organisations that was funded by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).\n"}
{"id": "31597200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31597200", "title": "Apinajé", "text": "Apinajé\n\nThe Apinajé (otherwise known as Apinayé, Afotigé, Aogé, Apinagé, Otogé, Oupinagee, Pinagé, Pinaré, Uhitische, Utinsche, and Western Timbira) are an indigenous people of Brazil called Gê, living in the state of Tocantins, Eastern Central Brazil.\n\nBefore the 20th century, there used to be three main Apinajé groups known as the Rõrkojoire, the Cocojoire, and the Krĩjobreire, each with their own land and political division, which totaled more than half of the current territory. Currently, the three distinct Apinajé groups have been living together, though São José is controlled by the Krĩjobreire, and Mariazinha has Cocojoire leadership. During the first quarter of the nineteenth century the Apinajé had a successful economic growth fueled by extensive cattle farming and the extraction of babaù palm oil which brought an increase in migration. In the late 20th century, immigrants encroached on Apinajé lands. Their lands divided when highways such as the Belém-Brasilia Highway and the Trans-Amazonian Highway. Part of their lands separated by the Trans-Amazonian Highway was taken from them and the tribe is working to regain it. The land rights of the Apinajé have been recognized by the federal government of Brazil in the 1988 Constitution.\n\nThe Apinajé indigenous population has had contacts with the Jesuits, military bands and explorers, which is similar to the experiences of other indigenous groups. Between 1633 and 1658, the Jesuits journeyed up the Tocantins River in order to “[persuade] the Indians to ‘descend’ the river to the villages of Pará”. This ushered in the potential of further encounters. On one of his expeditions, Captain-General D. Luiz Mascarenhas was confronted by “war-like” people, the Apinajé, in 1740. Another confrontation between the Portuguese settlers and the Apinajé occurred in 1774 when Antônio Luiz Tavares Lisboa and his band of explorers were traveling by way of the Tocantins River. These early contacts did not greatly disrupt the lifestyle of the Apinajé people. It was not until the 19th century that the indigenous group would suffer from colonization. This was due to the shrinking of their territory and population reduction in the face of settlement establishment by the Portuguese. Da Matta (1982) believes that the Apinajé were saved from extinction mainly due to the fact that the area they were situated in did not have true economic value.\n\nDuring the initial colonization period, the Apinajé had been recorded as being hostile to European expeditions. This prompted the construction of the military post of Alcobaça in 1780. However, it was soon abandoned due to the successful raids of the Apinajé. This only prompted further fortifications. In 1791 “another military post was founded on the Arapary river” and the same occurred in 1797 with the construction of the post of São João das Duas Barras. Regardless of previous conflicts, the Apinajé participated in the War for Independence of 1823 after sending “250 warriors to join the troops of José Dias de Mattos”. The most recent area of conflict was during the construction of the Trans-Amazon highway in 1985, which was supposed to be built over indigenous land. With the support of Krahô, Xerente, Xavante, and Kayapó warriors, the Apinajé had their lands recognized by the Brazilian state and the route of the highway was altered to avoid passing through this indigenous territory.\n\nSchools existed in the area of the Apinajé as early as the early 19th century, however it is unclear if their purpose was for the indigenous group or the general settler population. The first instructional materials for the Apinajé language were organized by the missionaries of the Summer Institute for Linguistics, in this particular case, Missionary Patricia Ham. Governmental support for indigenous schools was established as part of the 1988 Constitution. The current school system of the Apinajé shows that children start to learn in their native language up to the 4th grade, when Portuguese is introduced. The schools are run by the Apinajé community, with some teaching staff that comprises non-indigenous instructors and assistants. These schools further support the hypothesis that transmission rates are high; children are monolingual until they reach an age when they can start learning another language, leading to the majority of the population as being bilingual. It seems like the Apinayé language is still an important part of the culture of the group, and therefore has the ability to continue thriving.\n\nApinajé woman farm subsistence gardens, while men fell trees and plant rice. Common crops include bananas, beans, broad beans, papayas, peanuts, pumpkins, sweet potatoes, watermelons, and yams. Apinajé families raise cattle, pigs, and chickens. Hunting and fishing supplement domestic foods. In the past, babaçu nuts were sold for cash.\n\nThe Jê family is the largest language family in the Macro-Jê stock. It contains eight languages, some of which have many dialects within them. The languages of this family are concentrated mostly in “the savanna regions of Brazil from the southern parts of the states of Pará and Maranhão south to Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul”. Unfortunately, many other languages in the Macro-Jê stock have become extinct, because their East coast location meant for the first contact with Europeans, which, as written above, was violent and detrimental to many indigenous communities.\n\nApinajé people speak the Apinayé language, a Macro-Jê language. It is spoken in thirteen villages by the majority of the tribe. Some Apinajé people also speak Portuguese.\n\nA descriptive grammar of this language exists, written by researcher Christiane Cunha de Oliveira in her dissertation “The Language of the Apinajé People of Central Brazil”. Oliveira provides an extensive description and analysis of the phonology, morphology, and syntax of Apinayé. Other linguists have also contributed to the descriptive grammar of the language, including Callow’s 1962 paper discussing word order; Burgess and Ham’s phonological analysis including topics like consonant to vowel ratio, tone, and inventories of the different sounds of the language; and Callow’s 1962 analysis of nominal categories and Ham et al.’s 1979 analysis of verbal categories.\n\nPedagogical grammars have been created for use in a bilingual classroom setting, with the intention of teaching both national culture and indigenous culture to young students. Sousa et al.’s “Apinajé Intercultural Bilingual School: For an Education Beyond the Ethnic Frontier” discusses this process in depth, and examines the value of having an Apinajé pedagogical grammar in the classroom. There is an intrinsic link between language and culture, and learning the Apinayé language helps children build a stronger connection with both their indigenous culture and the national culture of Brazil. It also is perhaps part of the reason that this language currently holds the status of “developing” on the EGID scale as mentioned above, as transmission of a language to children of the culture is vital to its survival.\n\nIn the Acknowledgements section of “The Language of the Apinajé People of Central Brazil”, Oliveira thanks the Fundação Nacional do Índio (FUNAI) for assistance with the documentation needed for the research. Therefore, the Apinayé language has been part of a small documentation project, to provide the research necessary for this dissertation and descriptive grammar. Otherwise, documentation projects for this language are unavailable.\n\nThe most recent ethnographic study done on the Apinajé people is from 2017, where the education system is analyzed (Sousa et al.). The most prominent ethnography of the Apinayé language and people is Oliveira’s thesis dissertation (2005). This was preceded by Da Matta’s work (1982) which explores Apinajé customs and traditions. Curt Niumendajú was a German anthropologist and ethnologist who wrote The Apinayé (1939). The book is based on the social structure of the indigenous group, though it also includes minimal information regarding the linguistic formation of the Apinayé language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292690", "title": "Arabian horse", "text": "Arabian horse\n\nThe Arabian or Arab horse ( , DMG \"ḥiṣān ʿarabī\") is a breed of horse that originated on the Arabian Peninsula. With a distinctive head shape and high tail carriage, the Arabian is one of the most easily recognizable horse breeds in the world. It is also one of the oldest breeds, with archaeological evidence of horses in the Middle East that resemble modern Arabians dating back 4,500 years. Throughout history, Arabian horses have spread around the world by both war and trade, used to improve other breeds by adding speed, refinement, endurance, and strong bone. Today, Arabian bloodlines are found in almost every modern breed of riding horse.\n\nThe Arabian developed in a desert climate and was prized by the nomadic Bedouin people, often being brought inside the family tent for shelter and protection from theft. Selective breeding for traits including an ability to form a cooperative relationship with humans created a horse breed that is good-natured, quick to learn, and willing to please. The Arabian also developed the high spirit and alertness needed in a horse used for raiding and war. This combination of willingness and sensitivity requires modern Arabian horse owners to handle their horses with competence and respect.\n\nThe Arabian is a versatile breed. Arabians dominate the discipline of endurance riding, and compete today in many other fields of equestrian sport. They are one of the top ten most popular horse breeds in the world. They are now found worldwide, including the United States and Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, continental Europe, South America (especially Brazil), and their land of origin, the Middle East.\n\nArabian horses have refined, wedge-shaped heads, a broad forehead, large eyes, large nostrils, and small muzzles. Most display a distinctive concave, or \"dished\" profile. Many Arabians also have a slight forehead bulge between their eyes, called the \"jibbah\" by the Bedouin, that adds additional sinus capacity, believed to have helped the Arabian horse in its native dry desert climate. Another breed characteristic is an arched neck with a large, well-set windpipe set on a refined, clean throatlatch. This structure of the poll and throatlatch was called the \"mitbah\" or \"mitbeh\" by the Bedouin. In the ideal Arabian it is long, allowing flexibility in the bridle and room for the windpipe.\n\nOther distinctive features are a relatively long, level croup, or top of the hindquarters, and naturally high tail carriage. The USEF breed standard requires Arabians have solid bone and standard correct equine conformation. Well-bred Arabians have a deep, well-angled hip and well laid-back shoulder. Within the breed, there are variations. Some individuals have wider, more powerfully muscled hindquarters suitable for intense bursts of activity in events such as reining, while others have longer, leaner muscling better suited for long stretches of flat work such as endurance riding or horse racing. Most have a compact body with a short back. Arabians usually have dense, strong bone, and good hoof walls. They are especially noted for their endurance, and the superiority of the breed in Endurance riding competition demonstrates that well-bred Arabians are strong, sound horses with superior stamina. At international FEI-sponsored endurance events, Arabians and half-Arabians are the dominant performers in distance competition.\n\nSome Arabians, though not all, have 5 lumbar vertebrae instead of the usual 6, and 17 pairs of ribs rather than 18. A quality Arabian has both a relatively horizontal croup and a properly angled pelvis as well as good croup length and depth to the hip (determined by the length of the pelvis), that allows agility and impulsion. A misconception confuses the topline of the croup with the angle of the \"hip\" (the pelvis or ilium), leading some to assert that Arabians have a flat pelvis angle and cannot use their hindquarters properly. However, the croup is formed by the sacral vertebrae. The hip angle is determined by the attachment of the ilium to the spine, the structure and length of the femur, and other aspects of hindquarter anatomy, which is not correlated to the topline of the sacrum. Thus, the Arabian has conformation typical of other horse breeds built for speed and distance, such as the Thoroughbred, where the angle of the ilium is more oblique than that of the croup. Thus, the hip angle is not necessarily correlated to the topline of the croup. Horses bred to gallop need a good length of croup and good length of hip for proper attachment of muscles, and so unlike angle, length of hip and croup do go together as a rule.\n\nThe breed standard stated by the United States Equestrian Federation, describes Arabians as standing between tall, \"with the occasional individual over or under.\" Thus, all Arabians, regardless of height, are classified as \"horses\", even though is the traditional cutoff height between a horse and a pony. A common myth is that Arabians are not strong because they are relatively small and refined. However, the Arabian horse is noted for a greater density of bone than other breeds, short cannons, sound feet, and a broad, short back, all of which give the breed physical strength comparable to many taller animals. Thus, even a smaller Arabian can carry a heavy rider. For tasks where the sheer weight of the horse matters, such as farm work done by a draft horse, any lighter-weight horse is at a disadvantage. However, for most purposes, the Arabian is a strong and hardy light horse breed able to carry any type of rider in most equestrian pursuits.\n\nFor centuries, Arabian horses lived in the desert in close association with humans. For shelter and protection from theft, prized war mares were sometimes kept in their owner's tent, close to children and everyday family life. Only horses with a naturally good disposition were allowed to reproduce, with the result that Arabians today have a good temperament that, among other examples, makes them one of the few breeds where the United States Equestrian Federation rules allow children to exhibit stallions in nearly all show ring classes, including those limited to riders under 18.\n\nOn the other hand, the Arabian is also classified as a \"hot-blooded\" breed, a category that includes other refined, spirited horses bred for speed, such as the Akhal-Teke, the Barb, and the Thoroughbred. Like other hot-bloods, Arabians' sensitivity and intelligence enable quick learning and greater communication with their riders; however, their intelligence also allows them to learn bad habits as quickly as good ones, and they do not tolerate inept or abusive training practices. Some sources claim that it is more difficult to train a \"hot-blooded\" horse. Though most Arabians have a natural tendency to cooperate with humans, when treated badly, like any horse, they can become excessively nervous or anxious, but seldom become vicious unless seriously spoiled or subjected to extreme abuse. At the other end of the spectrum, romantic myths are sometimes told about Arabian horses that give them near-divine characteristics.\n\nThe Arabian Horse Association registers purebred horses with the coat colors bay, gray, chestnut, black, and roan. Bay, gray and chestnut are the most common; black is less common. The classic roan gene does not appear to exist in Arabians; rather, Arabians registered by breeders as \"roan\" are usually expressing rabicano or, sometimes, sabino patterns with roan features. All Arabians, no matter their coat color, have black skin, except under white markings. Black skin provided protection from the intense desert sun.\nAlthough many Arabians appear to have a \"white\" hair coat, they are not genetically \"white\". This color is usually created by the natural action of the gray gene, and virtually all white-looking Arabians are actually grays. A specialized colorization seen in some older gray Arabians is the so-called \"bloody-shoulder\", which is a particular type of \"flea-bitten\" gray with localized aggregations of pigment on the shoulder.\n\nThere are a very few Arabians registered as \"white\" having a white coat, pink skin and dark eyes from birth. These animals are believed to manifest a new form of dominant white, a result of a nonsense mutation in DNA tracing to a single stallion foaled in 1996. This horse was originally thought to be a sabino, but actually was found to have a new form of dominant white mutation, now labeled W3. It is possible that white mutations have occurred in Arabians in the past or that mutations other than W3 exist but have not been verified by genetic testing.\n\nOne spotting pattern, sabino, does exist in purebred Arabians. Sabino coloring is characterized by white markings such as \"high white\" above the knees and hocks, irregular spotting on the legs, belly and face, white markings that extend beyond the eyes or under the chin and jaw, and sometimes lacy or roaned edges.\n\nThe genetic mechanism that produces sabino patterning in Arabians is undetermined, and more than one gene may be involved. Studies at the University of California, Davis indicate that Arabians do not appear to carry the autosomal dominant gene \"SB1\" or \"sabino 1\", that often produces bold spotting and some completely white horses in other breeds. The inheritance patterns observed in sabino-like Arabians also do not follow the same mode of inheritance as \"sabino 1\".\n\nThere are very few Arabians registered as roan, and according to researcher D. Phillip Sponenberg, roaning in purebred Arabians is actually the action of rabicano genetics. Unlike a genetic roan, rabicano is a partial roan-like pattern; the horse does not have intermingled white and solid hairs over the entire body, only on the midsection and flanks, the head and legs are solid-colored. Some people also confuse a young gray horse with a roan because of the intermixed hair colors common to both. However, a roan does not consistently lighten with age, while a gray does.\n\nPurebred Arabians never carry dilution genes. Therefore, purebreds cannot be colors such as dun, cremello, palomino or buckskin. However, there is pictorial evidence from pottery and tombs in Ancient Egypt suggesting that spotting patterns may have existed on ancestral Arabian-type horses in antiquity. Nonetheless, purebred Arabians today do not carry genes for pinto or Leopard complex (\"Appaloosa\") spotting patterns, except for sabino.\n\nTo produce horses with some Arabian characteristics but coat colors not found in purebreds, they have to be crossbred with other breeds. Though the purebred Arabian produces a limited range of potential colors, they do not appear to carry any color-based lethal disorders such as the frame overo gene (\"O\") that can produce lethal white syndrome (LWS). Because purebred Arabians cannot produce LWS foals, Arabian mares were used as a non-affected population in some of the studies seeking the gene that caused the condition in other breeds. Nonetheless, partbred Arabian offspring can, in some cases, carry these genes if the non-Arabian parent was a carrier.\n\nThere are six known genetic disorders in Arabian horses. Two are inevitably fatal, two are not inherently fatal but are disabling and usually result in euthanasia of the affected animal; the remaining conditions can usually be treated. Three are thought to be autosomal recessive conditions, which means that the flawed gene is not sex-linked and has to come from both parents for an affected foal to be born; the others currently lack sufficient research data to determine the precise mode of inheritance. Arabians are not the only breed of horse to have problems with inherited diseases; fatal or disabling genetic conditions also exist in many other breeds, including the American Quarter Horse, American Paint Horse, American Saddlebred, Appaloosa, Miniature horse, and Belgian.\n\nGenetic diseases that can occur in purebred Arabians, or in partbreds with Arabian ancestry in both parents, are the following:\n\nThe Arabian Horse Association in the United States has created a foundation that supports research efforts to uncover the roots of genetic diseases. The organization F.O.A.L. (Fight Off Arabian Lethals) is a clearinghouse for information on these conditions. Additional information is available from the World Arabian Horse Association (WAHO).\n\nRecent trends in halter breeding have given rise to Arabian horses with extremely concave features, raising concerns that the trait is detrimental to the animal's welfare. Comparisons have been made to a similar trend with some dog breeds, where show judging awarding certain features has led to breeders seeking an ever more exaggerated form, with little concern as to the inherent function of the animal. Some veterinarians speculate that an extremely concave face is detrimental to a horse's breathing, but the issue has not been formally studied.\n\nArabian horses are the topic of many myths and legends. One origin story tells how Muhammad chose his foundation mares by a test of their courage and loyalty. While there are several variants on the tale, a common version states that after a long journey through the desert, Muhammad turned his herd of horses loose to race to an oasis for a desperately needed drink of water. Before the herd reached the water, Muhammad called for the horses to return to him. Only five mares responded. Because they faithfully returned to their master, though desperate with thirst, these mares became his favorites and were called \"Al Khamsa,\" meaning, \"the five.\" These mares became the legendary founders of the five \"strains\" of the Arabian horse. Although the \"Al Khamsa\" are generally considered fictional horses of legend, some breeders today claim the modern Bedouin Arabian actually descended from these mares.\n\nAnother origin tale claims that King Solomon was given a pure Arabian-type mare named Safanad (\"the pure\") by the Queen of Sheba. A different version says that Solomon gave a stallion, Zad el-Raheb or Zad-el-Rakib (\"Gift to the Rider\"), to the Banu Azd people when they came to pay tribute to the king. This legendary stallion was said to be faster than the zebra and the gazelle, and every hunt with him was successful, thus when he was put to stud, he became a founding sire of legend.\n\nYet another creation myth puts the origin of the Arabian in the time of Ishmael, the son of Abraham. In this story, the Angel Jibril (also known as Gabriel) descended from Heaven and awakened Ishmael with a \"wind-spout\" that whirled toward him. The Angel then commanded the thundercloud to stop scattering dust and rain, and so it gathered itself into a prancing, handsome creature - a horse - that seemed to swallow up the ground. Hence, the Bedouins bestowed the title \"Drinker of the Wind\" to the first Arabian horse.\n\nFinally, a Bedouin story states that Allah created the Arabian horse from the south wind and exclaimed, \"I create thee, Oh Arabian. To thy forelock, I bind Victory in battle. On thy back, I set a rich spoil and a Treasure in thy loins. I establish thee as one of the Glories of the Earth... I give thee flight without wings.\" Other versions of the story claim Allah said to the South Wind: \"I want to make a creature out of you. Condense.\" Then from the material condensed from the wind, he made a \"kamayt\"-colored animal (a bay or burnt chestnut) and said: \"I call you Horse; I make you Arabian and I give you the chestnut color of the ant; I have hung happiness from the forelock which hangs between your eyes; you shall be the Lord of the other animals. Men shall follow you wherever you go; you shall be as good for flight as for pursuit; you shall fly without wings; riches shall be on your back and fortune shall come through your meditation.\"\n\nArabians are one of the oldest human-developed horse breeds in the world. The progenitor stock, the Oriental subtype or \"Proto-Arabian\" was believed to be a horse with \"oriental\" characteristics similar to the modern Arabian. Horses with these features appeared in rock paintings and inscriptions in the Arabian Peninsula dating back 3500 years. In ancient history throughout the Ancient Near East, horses with refined heads and high-carried tails were depicted in artwork, particularly that of Ancient Egypt in the 16th century BC.\n\nSome scholars of the Arabian horse once theorized that the Arabian came from a separate subspecies of horse, known as \"equus caballus pumpelli\". Other scholars, including Gladys Brown Edwards, a noted Arabian researcher, believe that the \"dry\" oriental horses of the desert, from which the modern Arabian developed, were more likely \"Equus ferus caballus\" with specific landrace characteristics based on the environments in which they lived, rather than being a separate subspecies. Horses with similar, though not identical, physical characteristics include the Marwari horse of India, the Barb of North Africa, the Akhal-Teke of western Asia and the now-extinct Turkoman Horse. Recent genetic studies of mitochondrial DNA in Arabian horses of Polish and American breeding suggest that the modern breed has heterogeneous origins with ten haplogroups. The modern concept of breed purity in the modern population cannot be traced beyond 200 years.\n\nThere are different theories about where the ancestors of the Arabian originally lived. Most evidence suggests the proto-Arabian came from the area along the northern edge of the Fertile Crescent. Another hypothesis suggests the southwestern corner of the Arabian peninsula, in modern-day Yemen, where three now-dry riverbeds indicate good natural pastures existed long ago, perhaps as far back as the Ice Age. This hypothesis has gained renewed attention following a 2010 discovery of artifacts dated between 6590 and 7250 BCE in Al-Magar, in southwestern Saudi Arabia, that appeared to portray horses.\n\nThe proto-Arabian horse may have been domesticated by the people of the Arabian peninsula known today as the Bedouin, some time after they learned to use the camel, approximately 4,000–5,000 years ago. One theory is that this development occurred in the Nejd plateau in central Arabia. Other scholars, noting that horses were common in the Fertile Crescent but rare in the Arabian peninsula prior to the rise of Islam, theorize that the breed as it is known today only developed in large numbers when the conversion of the Persians to Islam in the 7th century brought knowledge of horse breeding and horsemanship to the Bedouin. The oldest depictions in the Arabian Peninsula of horses that are clearly domesticated date no earlier than 1800-2000 BCE.\n\nRegardless of origin, climate and culture ultimately created the Arabian. The desert environment required a domesticated horse to cooperate with humans to survive; humans were the only providers of food and water in certain areas, and even hardy Arabian horses needed far more water than camels in order to survive (most horses can only live about 72 hours without water). Where there was no pasture or water, the Bedouin fed their horses dates and camel's milk. The desert horse needed the ability to thrive on very little food, and to have anatomical traits to compensate for life in a dry climate with wide temperature extremes from day to night. Weak individuals were weeded out of the breeding pool, and the animals that remained were also honed by centuries of human warfare.\n\nThe Bedouin way of life depended on camels and horses: Arabians were bred to be war horses with speed, endurance, soundness, and intelligence. Because many raids required stealth, mares were preferred over stallions as they were quieter, and therefore would not give away the position of the fighters. A good disposition was also critical; prized war mares were often brought inside family tents to prevent theft and for protection from weather and predators. Though appearance was not necessarily a survival factor, the Bedouin bred for refinement and beauty in their horses as well as for more practical features.\n\nFor centuries, the Bedouin tracked the ancestry of each horse through an oral tradition. Horses of the purest blood were known as \"Asil\" and crossbreeding with non-\"Asil\" horses was forbidden. Mares were the most valued, both for riding and breeding, and pedigree families were traced through the female line. The Bedouin did not believe in gelding male horses, and considered stallions too intractable to be good war horses, thus they kept very few colts, selling most, and culling those of poor quality.\n\nOver time, the Bedouin developed several sub-types or \"strains\" of Arabian horse, each with unique characteristics, and traced through the maternal line only. According to the Arabian Horse Association, the five primary strains were known as the Keheilan, Seglawi, Abeyan, Hamdani and Hadban. Carl Raswan, a promoter and writer about Arabian horses from the middle of the 20th century, held the belief that there were only three strains, Kehilan, Seglawi and Muniqi. Raswan felt that these strains represented body \"types\" of the breed, with the Kehilan being \"masculine\", the Seglawi being \"feminine\" and the Muniqi being \"speedy\". There were also lesser strains, sub-strains, and regional variations in strain names. Therefore, many Arabian horses were not only \"Asil\", of pure blood, but also bred to be pure in strain, with crossbreeding between strains discouraged, though not forbidden, by some tribes. Purity of bloodline was very important to the Bedouin, and they also believed in telegony, believing if a mare was ever bred to a stallion of \"impure\" blood, the mare herself and all future offspring would be \"contaminated\" by the stallion and hence no longer \"Asil.\"\n\nThis complex web of bloodline and strain was an integral part of Bedouin culture; they not only knew the pedigrees and history of their best war mares in detail, but also carefully tracked the breeding of their camels, Saluki dogs, and their own family or tribal history. Eventually, written records began to be kept; the first written pedigrees in the Middle East that specifically used the term \"Arabian\" date to 1330 AD. As important as strain was to the Bedouin, modern studies of mitochondrial DNA suggest that Arabian horses alive today with records stating descent from a given strain may not actually share a common maternal ancestry.\n\nFiery war horses with dished faces and high-carried tails were popular artistic subjects in Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia, often depicted pulling chariots in war or for hunting. Horses with oriental characteristics appear in later artwork as far north as that of Ancient Greece and the Roman Empire. While this type of horse was not called an \"Arabian\" in the Ancient Near East until later, (the word \"Arabia\" or \"Arabaya\" first appeared in writing in Ancient Persia, c. 500 BC) these proto-Arabians shared many characteristics with the modern Arabian, including speed, endurance, and refinement. For example, a horse skeleton unearthed in the Sinai peninsula, dated to 1700 BC and probably brought by the Hyksos invaders, is considered the earliest physical evidence of the horse in Ancient Egypt. This horse had a wedge-shaped head, large eye sockets and small muzzle, all characteristics of the Arabian horse.\n\nFollowing the Hijra in AD 622 (also sometimes spelled Hegira), the Arabian horse spread across the known world of the time, and became recognized as a distinct, named breed. It played a significant role in the History of the Middle East and of Islam. By 630, Muslim influence expanded across the Middle East and North Africa, by 711 Muslim warriors had reached Spain, and they controlled most of the Iberian Peninsula by 720. Their war horses were of various oriental types, including both Arabians and the Barb horse of North Africa.\n\nArabian horses also spread to the rest of the world via the Ottoman Empire, which rose in 1299. Though it never fully dominated the heart of the Arabian Peninsula, this Turkish empire obtained many Arabian horses through trade, diplomacy and war. The Ottomans encouraged formation of private stud farms in order to ensure a supply of cavalry horses, and Ottoman nobles, such as Muhammad Ali of Egypt also collected pure, desert-bred Arabian horses.\n\nEl Naseri, or Al-Nasir Muhammad, Sultan of Egypt (1290–1342) imported and bred numerous Arabians in Egypt. A stud farm record was made of his purchases describing many of the horses as well as their abilities, and was deposited in his library, becoming a source for later study. Through the Ottomans, Arabian horses were often sold, traded, or given as diplomatic gifts to Europeans and, later, to Americans.\n\nHistorically, Egyptian breeders imported horses bred in the deserts of Palestine and the Arabian peninsula as the source of their foundation bloodstock. By the time that the Ottoman Empire dominated Egypt, the political elites of the region still recognized the need for quality bloodstock for both war and for horse racing, and some continued to return to the deserts to obtain pure-blooded Arabians. One of the most famous was Muhammad Ali of Egypt, also known as Muhammad Ali Pasha, who established an extensive stud farm in the 19th century. After his death, some of his stock was bred on by Abbas I of Egypt, also known as Abbas Pasha. However, after Abbas Pasha was assassinated in 1854, his heir, El Hami Pasha, sold most of his horses, often for crossbreeding, and gave away many others as diplomatic gifts. A remnant of the herd was obtained by Ali Pasha Sherif, who then went back to the desert to bring in new bloodstock. At its peak, the stud of Ali Pasha Sherif had over 400 purebred Arabians. Unfortunately, an epidemic of African horse sickness in the 1870s that killed thousands of horses throughout Egypt decimated much of his herd, wiping out several irreplaceable bloodlines. Late in his life, he sold several horses to Wilfred and Lady Anne Blunt, who exported them to Crabbet Park Stud in England. After his death, Lady Anne was also able to gather many remaining horses at her Sheykh Obeyd stud.\n\nMeanwhile, the passion brought by the Blunts to saving the pure horse of the desert helped Egyptian horse breeders to convince their government of the need to preserve the best of their own remaining pure Arabian bloodstock that descended from the horses collected over the previous century by Muhammad Ali Pasha, Abbas Pasha and Ali Pasha Sherif. The government of Egypt formed the Royal Agricultural Society (RAS) in 1908, which is known today as the Egyptian Agricultural Organization (EAO).\nRAS representatives traveled to England during the 1920s and purchased eighteen descendants of the original Blunt exports from Lady Wentworth at Crabbet Park, and returned these bloodlines to Egypt in order to restore bloodlines had been lost. Other than several horses purchased by Henry Babson for importation to the United States in the 1930s, and one other small group exported to the USA in 1947, relatively few Egyptian-bred Arabian horses were exported until the overthrow of King Farouk I in 1952. Many of the private stud farms of the princes were then confiscated and the animals taken over by the EAO. In the 1960s and 1970s, as oil development brought more foreign investors to Egypt, some of whom were horse fanciers, Arabians were exported to Germany and to the United States, as well as to the former Soviet Union. Today, the designation \"Straight Egyptian\" or \"Egyptian Arabian\" is popular with some Arabian breeders, and the modern Egyptian-bred Arabian is an outcross used to add refinement in some breeding programs.\n\nProbably the earliest horses with Arabian bloodlines to enter Europe came indirectly, through Spain and France. Others would have arrived with returning Crusaders—beginning in 1095, European armies invaded Palestine and many knights returned home with Arabian horses as spoils of war. Later, as knights and the heavy, armored war horses who carried them became obsolete, Arabian horses and their descendants were used to develop faster, agile light cavalry horses that were used in warfare into the 20th century.\n\nAnother major infusion of Arabian horses into Europe occurred when the Ottoman Turks sent 300,000 horsemen into Hungary in 1522, many of whom were mounted on pure-blooded Arabians, captured during raids into Arabia. By 1529, the Ottomans reached Vienna, where they were stopped by the Polish and Hungarian armies, who captured these horses from the defeated Ottoman cavalry. Some of these animals provided foundation bloodstock for the major studs of eastern Europe.\n\nWith the rise of light cavalry, the stamina and agility of horses with Arabian blood gave an enormous military advantage to any army who possessed them. As a result, many European monarchs began to support large breeding establishments that crossed Arabians on local stock, one example being Knyszyna, the royal stud of Polish king Zygmunt II August, and another the Imperial Russian Stud of Peter the Great.\n\nEuropean horse breeders also obtained Arabian stock directly from the desert or via trade with the Ottomans. In Russia, Count Alexey Orlov obtained many Arabians, including Smetanka, an Arabian stallion who became a foundation sire of the Orlov trotter. Orlov then provided Arabian horses to Catherine the Great, who in 1772 owned 12 pure Arabian stallions and 10 mares. By 1889 two members of the Russian nobility, Count Stroganov and Prince Nikolai Borisovich Shcherbatov, established Arabian stud farms to meet the continued need to breed Arabians as a source of pure bloodstock.\n\nIn Poland, notable imports from Arabia included those of Prince Hieronymous Sanguszko (1743–1812), who founded the Slawuta stud. Poland's first state-run Arabian stud farm, Janów Podlaski, was established by the decree of Alexander I of Russia in 1817, and by 1850, the great stud farms of Poland were well-established, including Antoniny, owned by the Polish Count Potocki (who had married into the Sanguszko family); later notable as the farm that produced the stallion Skowronek.\n\nThe 18th century marked the establishment of most of the great Arabian studs of Europe, dedicated to preserving \"pure\" Arabian bloodstock. The Prussians set up a royal stud in 1732, originally intended to provide horses for the royal stables, and other studs were established to breed animals for other uses, including mounts for the Prussian army. The foundation of these breeding programs was the crossing of Arabians on native horses; by 1873 some English observers felt that the Prussian calvalry mounts were superior in endurance to those of the British, and credited Arabian bloodlines for this superiority.\n\nOther state studs included the Babolna Stud of Hungary, set up in 1789, and the Weil stud in Germany (now Weil-Marbach or the Marbach stud), founded in 1817 by King William I of Württemberg. King James I of England imported the first Arabian stallion, the Markham Arabian, to England in 1616. Arabians were also introduced into European race horse breeding, especially in England via the Darley Arabian, Byerly Turk, and Godolphin Arabian, the three foundation stallions of the modern Thoroughbred breed, who were each brought to England during the 18th century. Other monarchs obtained Arabian horses, often as personal mounts. One of the most famous Arabian stallions in Europe was Marengo, the war horse ridden by Napoleon Bonaparte.\n\nDuring the mid-19th century, the need for Arabian blood to improve the breeding stock for light cavalry horses in Europe resulted in more excursions to the Middle East. Queen Isabel II of Spain sent representatives to the desert to purchase Arabian horses and by 1847 had established a stud book; her successor, King Alfonso XII imported additional bloodstock from other European nations. By 1893, the state military stud farm, Yeguada Militar was established in Córdoba, Spain for breeding both Arabian and Iberian horses. The military remained heavily involved in the importation and breeding of Arabians in Spain well into the early 20th century, and the Yeguada Militar is still in existence today.\n\nThis period also marked a phase of considerable travel to the Middle East by European civilians and minor nobility, and in the process, some travelers noticed that the Arabian horse as a pure breed of horse was under threat due to modern forms of warfare, inbreeding and other problems that were reducing the horse population of the Bedouin tribes at a rapid rate. By the late 19th century, the most farsighted began in earnest to collect the finest Arabian horses they could find in order to preserve the blood of the pure desert horse for future generations. The most famous example was Lady Anne Blunt, the daughter of Ada Lovelace and granddaughter of Lord Byron.\n\nPerhaps the most famous of all Arabian breeding operations founded in Europe was the Crabbet Park Stud of England, founded 1878. Starting in 1877, Wilfrid Scawen Blunt and Lady Anne Blunt made repeated journeys to the Middle East, including visits to the stud of Ali Pasha Sherif in Egypt and to Bedouin tribes in the Nejd, bringing the best Arabians they could find to England. Lady Anne also purchased and maintained the Sheykh Obeyd stud farm in Egypt, near Cairo. Upon Lady Anne's death in 1917, the Blunts' daughter, Judith, Lady Wentworth, inherited the Wentworth title and Lady Anne's portion of the estate, and obtained the remainder of the Crabbet Stud following a protracted legal battle with her father. Lady Wentworth expanded the stud, added new bloodstock, and exported Arabian horses worldwide. Upon her death in 1957, the stud passed to her manager, Cecil Covey, who ran Crabbet until 1971, when a motorway was cut through the property, forcing the sale of the land and dispersal of the horses. Along with Crabbet, the Hanstead Stud of Lady Yule also produced horses of worldwide significance.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the military was involved in the breeding of Arabian horses throughout Europe, particularly in Poland, Spain, Germany, and Russia; private breeders also developed a number of breeding programs. Significant among the private breeders in continental Europe was Spain's Cristóbal Colón de Aguilera, XV Duque de Veragua, a direct descendant of Christopher Columbus, who founded the Veragua Stud in the 1920s.\n\nBetween World War I, the Russian Revolution, and the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, many historic European stud farms were lost; in Poland, the Antoniny and Slawuta Studs were wiped out except for five mares. Notable among the survivors was the Janów Podlaski Stud. The Russian Revolution, combined with the effects of World War I, destroyed most of the breeding programs in Russia, but by 1921, the Soviet government reestablished an Arabian program, the Tersk Stud, on the site of the former Stroganov estate, which included Polish bloodstock as well as some importations from the Crabbet Stud in England. The programs that survived the war re-established their breeding operations and some added to their studs with new imports of desert-bred Arabian horses from the Middle East. Not all European studs recovered. The Weil stud of Germany, founded by King Wilhelm I, went into considerable decline; by the time the Weil herd was transferred to the Marbach State Stud in 1932, only 17 purebred Arabians remained.\n\nThe Spanish Civil War and World War II also had a devastating impact on horse breeding throughout Europe. The Veragua stud was destroyed, and its records lost, with the only survivors being the broodmares and the younger horses, who were rescued by Francisco Franco. Crabbet Park, Tersk, and Janów Podlaski survived. Both the Soviet Union and the United States obtained valuable Arabian bloodlines as spoils of war, which they used to strengthen their breeding programs. The Soviets had taken steps to protect their breeding stock at Tersk Stud, and by utilizing horses captured in Poland they were able to re-establish their breeding program soon after the end of World War II. The Americans brought Arabian horses captured in Europe to the United States, mostly to the Pomona U.S. Army Remount station, the former W.K. Kellogg Ranch in California.\n\nIn the postwar era, Poland, Spain, and Germany developed or re-established many well-respected Arabian stud farms. The studs of Poland in particular were decimated by both the Nazis and the Soviets, but were able to reclaim some of their breeding stock and became particularly world-renowned for their quality Arabian horses, tested rigorously by racing and other performance standards. During the 1950s, the Russians also obtained additional horses from Egypt to augment their breeding programs.\n\nWhile only a few Arabians were exported from behind the Iron Curtain during the Cold War, those who did come to the west caught the eye of breeders worldwide. Improved international relations between eastern Europe and the west led to major imports of Polish and Russian-bred Arabian horses to western Europe and the United States in the 1970s and 1980s. The collapse of the former Soviet Union in 1991, greater political stability in Egypt, and the rise of the European Union all increased international trade in Arabian horses. Organizations such as the World Arabian Horse Association (WAHO) created consistent standards for transferring the registration of Arabian horses between different nations. Today, Arabian horses are traded all over the world.\n\nThe first horses on the American mainland since the end of the Ice Age arrived with the Spanish Conquistadors. Hernán Cortés brought 16 horses of Andalusian, Barb, and Arabian ancestry to Mexico in 1519. Others followed, such as Francisco Vásquez de Coronado, who brought 250 horses of similar breeding to America in 1540. More horses followed with each new arrival of Conquistadors, missionaries, and settlers. Many horses escaped or were stolen, becoming the foundation stock of the American Mustang.\n\nColonists from England also brought horses of Arabian breeding to the eastern seaboard. One example was Nathaniel Harrison, who imported a horse of Arabian, Barb and Turkish ancestry to America in 1747.\n\nOne of George Washington's primary mounts during the American Revolutionary War was a gray half-Arabian horse named Blueskin, sired by the stallion \"Ranger\", also known as \"Lindsay's Arabian\", said to have been obtained from the Sultan of Morocco. Other Presidents are linked to ownership of Arabian horses; in 1840, President Martin Van Buren received two Arabians from the Sultan of Oman, and in 1877, President Ulysses S. Grant obtained an Arabian stallion, Leopard, and a Barb, Linden Tree, as gifts from Abdul Hamid II, the \"Sultan of Turkey.\"\n\nA. Keene Richard was the first American known to have specifically bred Arabian horses. He traveled to the desert in 1853 and 1856 to obtain breeding stock, which he crossed on Thoroughbreds, and also bred purebred Arabians. Unfortunately, his horses were lost during the Civil War and have no known purebred Arabian descendants today. Another major U.S. political figure, William H. Seward purchased four Arabians in Beirut in 1859, prior to becoming Secretary of State to Abraham Lincoln.\n\nLeopard is the only stallion imported prior to 1888 who left known purebred descendants in America. In 1888 Randolph Huntington imported the desert-bred Arabian mare *Naomi, and bred her to Leopard, producing Leopard's only purebred Arabian son, Anazeh, who sired eight purebred Arabian foals, four of whom still appear in pedigrees today.\nIn 1908, the Arabian Horse Registry of America was established, recording 71 animals, and by 1994, the number had reached half a million. Today there are more Arabians registered in North America than in the rest of the world put together.\n\nThe origins of the registry date to 1893, when the Hamidie Society sponsored an exhibit of Arabian horses from what today is Syria at the World Fair in Chicago. This exhibition raised considerable interest in Arabian horses. Records are unclear if 40 or 45 horses were imported for the exposition, but seven died in a fire shortly after arrival. The 28 horses that remained at the end of the exhibition stayed in America and were sold at auction when the Hamidie Society went bankrupt. These horses caught the interest of American breeders, including Peter Bradley of the Hingham Stock Farm, who purchased some Hamidie horses at the auction, and Homer Davenport, another admirer of the Hamidie imports.\n\nMajor Arabian importations to the United States included those of Davenport and Bradley, who teamed up to purchase several stallions and mares directly from the Bedouin in 1906. Spencer Borden of the Interlachen Stud made several importations between 1898 and 1911; and W.R. Brown of the Maynesboro Stud, interested in the Arabian as a cavalry mount, imported many Arabians over a period of years, starting in 1918. Another wave of imports came in the 1920s and 30s when breeders such as W.K. Kellogg, Henry Babson, Roger Selby, James Draper, and others imported Arabian bloodstock from Crabbet Park Stud in England, as well as from Poland, Spain and Egypt. The breeding of Arabians was fostered by the U. S. Army Remount Service, which stood purebred stallions at public stud for a reduced rate.\n\nSeveral Arabians, mostly of Polish breeding, were captured from Nazi Germany and imported to the U.S.A. following World War II. In 1957, two deaths in England led to more sales to the United States: first from Crabbet Stud on the demise of Lady Wentworth, and then from Hanstead with the passing of Gladys Yule. As the tensions of the Cold War eased, more Arabians were imported to America from Poland and Egypt, and in the late 1970s, as political issues surrounding import regulations and the recognition of stud books were resolved, many Arabian horses were imported from Spain and Russia.\n\nIn the 1980s, Arabians became a popular status symbol and were marketed similarly to fine art. Some individuals also used horses as a tax shelter. Prices skyrocketed, especially in the United States, with a record-setting public auction price for a mare named NH Love Potion, who sold for $2.55 million in 1984, and the largest syndication in history for an Arabian stallion, Padron, at $11,000,000. The potential for profit led to over-breeding of the Arabian. When the Tax Reform Act of 1986 closed the tax-sheltering \"passive investment\" loophole, limiting the use of horse farms as tax shelters, the Arabian market was particularly vulnerable due to over-saturation and artificially inflated prices, and it collapsed, forcing many breeders into bankruptcy and sending many purebred Arabians to slaughter. Prices recovered slowly, with many breeders moving away from producing \"living art\" and towards a horse more suitable for amateur owners and many riding disciplines. By 2003, a survey found that 67% of purebred Arabian horses in America are owned for recreational riding purposes. , there are more than 660,000 Arabians that have been registered in the United States, and the US has the largest number of Arabians of any nation in the world.\n\nArabian horses were introduced to Australia in the earliest days of European Settlement. Early imports included both purebred Arabians and light Spanish \"jennets\" from Andalusia, many Arabians also came from India. Based on records describing stallions \"of Arabic and Persian blood\", the first Arabian horses were probably imported to Australia in several groups between 1788 and 1802. About 1803, a merchant named Robert Campbell imported a bay Arabian stallion, Hector, from India; Hector was said to have been owned by Arthur Wellesley, who later became known as the Duke of Wellington. In 1804 two additional Arabians, also from India, arrived in Tasmania one of whom, White William, sired the first purebred Arabian foal born in Australia, a stallion named Derwent.\n\nThroughout the 19th century, many more Arabians came to Australia, though most were used to produce crossbred horses and left no recorded purebred descendants. The first significant imports to be permanently recorded with offspring still appearing in modern purebred Arabian pedigrees were those of James Boucaut, who in 1891 imported several Arabians from Wilfred and Lady Anne Blunt's Crabbet Arabian Stud in England. Purebred Arabians were used to improve racehorses and some of them became quite famous as such; about 100 Arabian sires are included in the Australian Stud Book (for Thoroughbred racehorses). The military was also involved in the promotion of breeding calvalry horses, especially around World War I. They were part of the foundation of several breeds considered uniquely Australian, including the Australian Pony, the Waler and the Australian Stock Horse.\n\nIn the early 20th century, more Arabian horses, mostly of Crabbet bloodlines, arrived in Australia. The first Arabians of Polish breeding arrived in 1966, and Egyptian lines were first imported in 1970. Arabian horses from the rest of the world followed, and today the Australian Arabian horse registry is the second largest in the world, next to that of the United States.\n\nArabian horses today are found all over the world. They are no longer classified by Bedouin strain, but are informally classified by the nation of origin of famed horses in a given pedigree. Popular types of Arabians are labeled \"Polish\", \"Spanish\", \"Crabbet\", \"Russian\", \"Egyptian\", and \"Domestic\" (describing horses whose ancestors were imported to the United States prior to 1944, including those from programs such as Kellogg, Davenport, Maynesboro, Babson, Dickenson and Selby). In the USA, a specific mixture of Crabbet, Maynesboro and Kellogg bloodlines has acquired the copyrighted designation \"CMK.\"\n\nEach set of bloodlines has its own devoted followers, with the virtues of each hotly debated. Most debates are between those who value the Arabian most for its refined beauty and those who value the horse for its stamina and athleticism; there are also a number of breeders who specialize in preservation breeding of various bloodlines. Controversies exist over the relative \"purity\" of certain animals; breeders argue about the genetic \"purity\" of various pedigrees, discussing whether some horses descend from \"impure\" animals that cannot be traced to the desert Bedouin. The major factions are as follows:\n\n\nBecause of the genetic strength of the desert-bred Arabian horse, Arabian bloodlines have played a part in the development of nearly every modern light horse breed, including the Thoroughbred, Orlov Trotter, Morgan, American Saddlebred, American Quarter Horse, and Warmblood breeds such as the Trakehner. Arabian bloodlines have also influenced the development of the Welsh Pony, the Australian Stock Horse, Percheron draft horse, Appaloosa, and the Colorado Ranger Horse.\n\nToday, people cross Arabians with other breeds to add refinement, endurance, agility and beauty. In the USA, Half-Arabians have their own registry within the Arabian Horse Association, which includes a special section for Anglo-Arabians (Arabian-Thoroughbred crosses). Some crosses originally registered only as Half-Arabians became popular enough to have their own breed registry, including the National Show Horse (an Arabian-Saddlebred cross), the Quarab (Arabian-Quarter Horse), the Pintabian the Welara (Arabian-Welsh Pony), and the Morab (Arabian-Morgan). In addition, some Arabians and Half Arabians have been approved for breeding by some Warmblood registries, particularly the Trakehner registry.\n\nThere is intense debate over the role the Arabian played in the development of other light horse breeds. Before DNA-based research developed, one hypothesis, based on body types and conformation, suggested the light, \"dry\", oriental horse adapted to the desert climate had developed prior to domestication; DNA studies of multiple horse breeds now suggest that while domesticated horses arose from multiple mare lines, there is very little variability in the Y-chromosome between breeds. Following domestication of the horse, due to the location of the Middle East as a crossroads of the ancient world, and relatively near the earliest locations of domestication, oriental horses spread throughout Europe and Asia both in ancient and modern times. There is little doubt that humans crossed \"oriental\" blood on that of other types to create light riding horses; the only actual questions are at what point the \"oriental\" prototype could be called an \"Arabian\", how much Arabian blood was mixed with local animals, and at what point in history.\n\nFor some breeds, such as the Thoroughbred, Arabian influence of specific animals is documented in written stud books. For older breeds, dating the influx of Arabian ancestry is more difficult. For example, while outside cultures, and the horses they brought with them, influenced the predecessor to the Iberian horse in both the time of Ancient Rome and again with the Islamic invasions of the 8th century, it is difficult to trace precise details of the journeys taken by waves of conquerors and their horses as they traveled from the Middle East to North Africa and across Gibraltar to southern Europe. Mitochondrial DNA studies of modern Andalusian horses of the Iberian peninsula and Barb horses of North Africa present convincing evidence that both breeds crossed the Strait of Gibraltar and influenced one another. Though these studies did not compare Andalusian and Barb mtDNA to that of Arabian horses, there is evidence that horses resembling Arabians, whether before or after the breed was called an \"Arabian\", were part of this genetic mix. Arabians and Barbs, though probably related to one another, are quite different in appearance, and horses of both Arabian and Barb type were present in the Muslim armies that occupied Europe. There is also historical documentation that Islamic invaders raised Arabian horses in Spain prior to the Reconquista; the Spanish also documented imports of Arabian horses in 1847, 1884 and 1885 that were used to improve existing Spanish stock and revive declining equine populations.\n\nArabians are versatile horses that compete in many equestrian fields, including horse racing, the horse show disciplines of saddle seat, Western pleasure, and hunt seat, as well as dressage, cutting, reining, endurance riding, show jumping, eventing, youth events such as equitation, and others. They are used as pleasure riding, trail riding, and working ranch horses for those who are not interested in competition.\n\nArabians dominate the sport of endurance riding because of their stamina. They are the leading breed in competitions such as the Tevis Cup that can cover up to in a day, and they participate in FEI-sanctioned endurance events worldwide, including the World Equestrian Games.\n\nThere is an extensive series of horse shows in the United States and Canada for Arabian, Half-Arabian, and Anglo-Arabian horses, sanctioned by the USEF in conjunction with the Arabian Horse Association. Classes offered include Western pleasure, reining, hunter type and saddle seat English pleasure, and halter, plus the very popular \"Native\" costume class. \"Sport horse\" events for Arabian horses have become popular in North America, particularly after the Arabian Horse Association began hosting a separate Arabian and Half Arabian Sport Horse National Championship in 2003 that by 2004 grew to draw 2000 entries. This competition draws Arabian and part-Arabian horses that perform in hunter, jumper, sport horse under saddle, sport horse in hand, dressage, and combined driving competition.\n\nOther nations also sponsor major shows strictly for purebred and partbred Arabians, including Great Britain France, Spain, Poland, and the United Arab Emirates.\n\nPurebred Arabians have excelled in open events against other breeds. One of the most famous examples in the field of western riding competition was the Arabian mare Ronteza, who defeated 50 horses of all breeds to win the 1961 Reined Cow Horse championship at the Cow Palace in San Francisco, California. Another Arabian competitive against all breeds was the stallion Aaraf who won an all-breed cutting horse competition at the Quarter Horse Congress in the 1950s. In show jumping and show hunter competition, a number of Arabians have competed successfully against other breeds in open competition, including the purebred gelding Russian Roulette, who has won multiple jumping classes against horses of all breeds on the open circuit, and in eventing, a purebred Arabian competed on the Brazilian team at the 2004 Athens Olympics.\n\nPart-Arabians have also appeared at open sport horse events and even Olympic level competition. The Anglo-Arabian Linon was ridden to an Olympic silver medal for France in Dressage in 1928 and 1932, as well as a team gold in 1932, and another French Anglo-Arabian, Harpagon, was ridden to a team gold medal and an individual silver in dressage at the 1948 Olympics. At the 1952 Olympics, the French rider Pierre d'Oriola won the Gold individual medal in show jumping on the Anglo-Arabian Ali Baba. Another Anglo-Arabian, Tamarillo, ridden by William Fox-Pitt, represents the United Kingdom in FEI and Olympic competition, winning many awards, including first place at the 2004 Badminton Horse Trials. More recently a gelding named Theodore O'Connor, nicknamed \"Teddy\", a 14.1 (or 14.2, sources vary) hand pony of Thoroughbred, Arabian, and Shetland pony breeding, won two gold medals at the 2007 Pan American Games and was finished in the top six at the 2007 and 2008 Rolex Kentucky Three Day CCI competition.\n\nArabians are involved in a wide variety of activities, including fairs, movies, parades, circuses and other places where horses are showcased. They have been popular in movies, dating back to the silent film era when Rudolph Valentino rode the Kellogg Arabian stallion Jadaan in 1926's \"Son of the Sheik\", and have been seen in many other films, including \"The Black Stallion\" featuring the stallion Cass Ole, \"The Young Black Stallion\", which used over 40 Arabians during filming, as well as \"Hidalgo\" and the 1959 version of \"Ben-Hur\".\n\nArabians are mascots for football teams, performing crowd-pleasing activities on the field and sidelines. One of the horses who serves as \"Traveler\", the mascot for the University of Southern California Trojans, has been a purebred Arabian. \"Thunder\", a stage name for the purebred Arabian stallion J B Kobask, was mascot for the Denver Broncos from 1993 until his retirement in 2004, when the Arabian gelding Winter Solstyce took over as \"Thunder II\". Cal Poly Pomona's W.K. Kellogg Arabian Horse Center Equestrian Unit has made Arabian horses a regular sight at the annual Tournament of Roses Parade held each New Year's Day in Pasadena, California.\n\nArabians also are used on search and rescue teams and occasionally for police work. Some Arabians are used in polo in the USA and Europe, in the Turkish equestrian sport of Cirit (), as well as in circuses, therapeutic horseback riding programs, and on guest ranches.\n\nRegistries and related organizations\n\nEducational organizations and articles\n"}
{"id": "50940210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50940210", "title": "Association of Leaders in Volunteer Engagement", "text": "Association of Leaders in Volunteer Engagement\n\nThe Association for Leaders Volunteer Engagement (AL!VE) was created in 2007. It is a professional association for managers of volunteers. It is a nonprofit organization.\n\nFollowing the demise of the Association for Volunteer Administration (AVA) in 2006, discussions were held during the Points of Light Conference in Seattle in June 2006 by former AVA members about what kind of new organization might serve the needs of people that work with and support volunteers. Various people at this meeting expressed interest in creating a new professional association, and created a group called the Congress of Volunteer Administration Associations (COVAA) to explore the idea. COVAA launched a web site at www.covaa.org by August 2006.\n\nThe COVAA organizers held an event in December 2006 in Denver. About 90 people attended, representing local associations of those managing volunteers, commonly called DOVIAs (directors of volunteers in agencies), from cities large and small; state associations of volunteer administrators; affinity groups such as health care settings, volunteer centers, museums, local government, and animal shelters; and networks within national organizations such as volunteer program managers at the American Red Cross and Volunteers of America. At the end of three days, a COVAA Steering Committee was elected to continue to seek involvement and input from the widest range of colleagues working with volunteers, and to explore the creation of a permanent new association to serve as a professional network for such.\n\nA year later, based on feedback to COVAA organizers and discussions during a town hall meeting at the 2007 National Conference on Volunteering and Service in Philadelphia, the COVAA Steering Committee proposed the launch of a new professional association for people that work with volunteers, and the name of this association to be \"ALIVE.\" It would stand for the \"Association of Leaders in Volunteer Engagement.\" The organizers proposed the following mission ALIVE: \"to enhance and sustain the spirit of volunteerism in America by fostering collaboration and networking, promoting professional development, and providing advocacy for leaders in community engagement\". AL!VE received a grant from the Volunteer Impact Fund to be used as start-up funding. The Founding Board was formed at a facilitated retreat in Denver in February 2009. AL!VE went live with its own web site in November 2009.\n\nNow abbreviated as AL!VE, the association serves both professionals and volunteers that work in the management of volunteers and volunteer engagement. It advocates for the recognition and appreciation of volunteer management, and works to be a resource for and provide a link to tools, research, and best practices regarding volunteer engagement. The association has published 21 online newsletters that chronicle its activities. The association also provides a web page of web-based resources regarding the management and support of volunteers.\n\nAL!VE participated in the first national conference for managers of volunteers since the demise of AVA in July 2017, hosted by the Minnesota Association for Volunteer Administration. As volunteerism expert Susan J. Ellis noted, \"It has been 10 years since we had a national event designed exclusively for people whose work centers on engaging volunteers. At one time we relied on what was the Association for Volunteer Administration (AVA) for such an annual gathering, but when AVA died, so did the conference... This is do-or-die time for AL!VE, the Association of Leaders in Volunteer Engagement.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2357270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2357270", "title": "Australian Family Association", "text": "Australian Family Association\n\nThe Australian Family Association (AFA) is a conservative political organisation with the stated aim of \"supporting and strengthening traditional family values\". It was founded in 1980 by the National Civic Council's then president, B. A. Santamaria, to \"promote the family as the natural and fundamental unit of society\".\n\nAccording to its stated objectives, the AFA aims \"to cultivate within society an appreciation that the integrity and wellbeing of the family is essential to the stability, morale, security and prosperity of the Australian nation\". It defines a family as being \"composed of father, mother and children\". It also lobbies on issues related to its central purpose, such as the definition of marriage, abortion, media standards and classification, cloning, pornography and illicit drug use.\n\nThe objectives for which the Australian Family Association is established are:\n\n\nThe AFA was founded by B. A. Santamaria. Current and former patrons of the organisation include Kim Beazley, sr., Rupert Goodman, Major-General W. B. \"Digger\" James, Major-General Michael Jeffery, Sir Peter Lawler, Dame Elisabeth Murdoch and Jerzy Zubrzycki.\n\nRoss Fitzgerald criticised the AFA in 2008 for protesting against a film they had not viewed, and also criticised the Australian Classification Review Board for letting the protest influence them.\n\nAt an anti same-sex marriage rally the AFA co-organised in 2011, guest speakers stated gay marriage should be \"laughed at and ridiculed\" and incorrectly associated gay marriage with paedophilia. Mental health psychologist Paul Martin said such comments would be psychologically damaging to young gay people, stating \"the last thing they need to hear are these kinds of offensive comments from people who purport to represent 'family values'.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17122234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17122234", "title": "Bad Girrls Studios", "text": "Bad Girrls Studios\n\nBad Girrls Studios was a popular Boston gallery and performance space from 1996 to 2000, located at 209 Green Street in Jamaica Plain. Founded by School of the Museum of Fine Arts student Jessica Brand, the artist-run studio hosted numerous events until it closed due to pressure from the Boston Licensing Commission and lack of funding.\n\nBad Girrls Studios supported female artists in particular, and art that pushed boundaries of sexual orientation and gender identity, the largest of which was a 1998 exhibit \"Naughty Girrls Nite @ Bad Girrls Studios\", produced by studio member Rebecca Goldberg, which drew over 50 women artists and performers from New York and New England.\n\nSeveral of the studio members were also co-founders or members of the Art School Cheerleaders. This performance art group, which began at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, used Cheerleading as a medium for satirical commentary about art and the art world, and to advocate for arts funding.\n\nThe artist-run gallery was partially inspired by another important performance art space in Boston during that time, Mobius Artists Group, that brought cutting-edge performance artists to Boston through an international exchange program. Mobius had been founded by another member of the School of the Museum of Fine Arts community, instructor Marilyn Arsem. \n\nBad Girrls Studios operated under the slogan \"Art is Not A Luxury.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29201863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29201863", "title": "Bara people", "text": "Bara people\n\nThe Bara people are a Malagasy ethnic group living in the southern part of the central plateaus of Madagascar, in the Toliara Province, concentrated around their historic capital at Ihosy. The Bara are the largest of the island's zebu-herding peoples and have historically lived a semi-nomadic lifestyle, although an increasing proportion are practicing agriculture. Bara society is highly patriarchal and endogamy and polygamy are practiced among some Bara tribes. Young men practice cattle rustling to prove their manhood before marriage, and the \"kilalaky\" musical and dance tradition associated with cattle rustlers has gained popularity across the island.\n\nHistorically the Bara were organized into numerous affiliated kingdoms ruled by nobles of the Zafimanely line. They were largely united under a single king in the late 18th century before again dissolving into competing kingdoms. Over the 19th century, Bara participation in slave and cattle trading and raids into neighboring territories saw their wealth and power increase despite the group's fragmented political organization. This economic power enabled the Bara to maintain independence from the expanding authority of the Kingdom of Imerina and resist French authority for nearly a decade following colonization in 1896. Andre Resampa, a powerful political leader in the transition to independence for Madagascar in 1960, hailed from the Bara ethnic group. There were an estimated 520,000 Bara in Madagascar in 2000 constituting roughly three percent of the population, and they remain the island's predominant zebu herders and traders.\n\nThe name \"Bara\" is of Bantu origin and means \"those of the interior\". Along with Sakalava, Bara are one of the two Malagasy ethnic groups of clear Bantu descent. They live principally in the southern part of the central plateaus of Madagascar, in the Toliara Province, especially in the Ihosy-Betroka area. They numbered an estimated 520,000 in 2000.\n\nThe history of the Bara begins along the Ihosy River in the Arindrano region of southwest Madagascar, near Toliara. Little is known about the earliest period in Bara identity formation, beyond that it coincided with the formation of the Maroserana dynasty of the Sakalava people and that certain Bara nobles had Maroserana origins. This early kingship-based social structure is believed to have had weak or nonexistent rules of succession. Around 1640 a noble of the Mahafaly people invaded Bara territory and installed his family as rulers under the dynastic name Zafimanely. This was an imposition to which many Bara were unwilling to submit, leading them to simply migrate internally to new territory. Zafimanely power became more firmly established after the death of the Mahafaly nobleman in 1653, but competition and ambition led these newcomers to engage in an ongoing struggle for power until around 1680, greatly disrupting life in Bara territory (Ibara). A major driver of this instability was the absence of a tribute system, leading Zafimanely nobles to engage in cattle raiding and issuing costly fines to law breakers that sparked internal and external tensions alike.\n\nAround 1800 there emerged a Zafimanely king called Raikitroka who put in place new regulations that greatly eased these tensions and ushered in a reign of relative tranquility and harmony. After Raikitroka's death, the ruling line fractured into multiple kingdoms and principalities; by 1895 the Bara were organized into at least three major kingdoms, two mid-sized ones and more than 24 minor kingdoms. This shift was linked not to economic causes—the Bara as a whole grew richer from international trade and the raiding of Imerina in the late 19th century—but rather because of the gradual dispersal of the growing Bara population into the relatively underpopulated plains of the west and south and subsequently growing distance of the scattered population from the traditional center of Bara power. Although Queen Ranavalona I successfully established a Merina military installation at Ihosy, the 19th century military conquests of the Kingdom of Imerina never succeeded in entirely subjugating the Bara. Working from their base at Ihosy, the Merina garrison attempted to exert some degree of influence over the Bara by providing support to stronger Bara kings over their challengers in an effort to maintain friendly alliances with powerful leaders capable of exerting the control over the territory that the Merina could not. Despite the dispersed nature of Bara power, by the end of the 19th century the Zafimanely constellation of ruling nobles ranked alongside that of the Sakalava and Merina as the most powerful political forces on the island.\n\nThe Zafimanely Kingdom was dissolved after the island was colonized by the French in 1896. The king of one of the most prominent Bara kingdoms, a leader named Ramieba, was arrested by the French for leading Bara participation in the Menalamba rebellion against French rule in 1897. This consequently soured Bara perception of the French, who otherwise might have been welcomed as conquerors of the widely resented Merina sovereigns. After the French conquered Madagascar they attempted with great difficulty to impose administrative authority in Bara territory, with frequent Bara insurrections between June 1897 and the general southern uprising of 1904–05.\n\nBara politician Andre Resampa became a leading figure in the establishment of the Social Democratic Party (PSD) in the run-up to national independence in 1960. When PSD figurehead Philibert Tsiranana was elected Madagascar's first president on 1 May 1959, Resampa became the party's Secretary General; in this role, he spearheaded the revival of the traditional body of local government, the \"fokonolona\", and led a successful effort to dramatically increase party membership.\n\nBara society is structured into numerous loosely affiliated groups based on common ancestors. These were clustered into five main tribes. The three largest and most powerful were the Bara-Be, Bara-Imamono and Bara-Ianstsantsa, who lived alongside the smaller Vinda and Antivondro. They live a semi-nomadic lifestyle that revolves around herding zebu and are the largest and most important of the Malagasy pastoralist groups. The capital of the Bara was located in Ihosy. Community life was traditionally organized around a rigid set of rules and norms, but these have loosened since the early 20th century as growing population pressures have forced emigration and dispersal of the Bara away from their historic homeland. Like elsewhere in Madagascar, Bara society was historically stratified into three classes: nobles, commoners and slaves.\n\nCommunities remain strongly patriarchal, and polygamy is commonly practiced. Endogamy is also practiced among some Bara tribes. The male head of the family often has a dual role as the spiritual leader of the household. Traditionally, inheritance rights strongly favored males; daughters were restricted from inheriting anything other than movable property. Gender roles were strictly defined. Men prepared the soil of the rice fields, purchased or hunted for food, gathered firewood, built the family home and furniture, and engaged in discussion and debate about public affairs. Women were responsible for growing crops for sale or family consumption, weeding the rice fields, harvesting and processing the rice, gathering water, lighting the hearth fire and preparing daily meals, and weaving. As recently as the late 19th century, women were forbidden from eating until after the men had finished, and could not look at them while they ate. At birth, a village \"ombiasy\" (seer) was typically consulted to determine whether the child was destined for a fortunate or unhappy fate. If the latter, an exorcism was practiced whereby the infant would be slid down a chute into a body of water where his mother would retrieve him, and if it was deemed that the evil destiny was too strong for the exorcism rite to overcome it, the Bara infant would be left on an anthill to die.\n\nWhile some Baras are Christians, most retain their traditional religious beliefs. Tamarind trees were traditionally considered sacred and are found planted near many Bara villages, where residents will leave offerings like woven mats, locks of hair, shells and other items when offering prayers or after their requests are fulfilled. The indigenous \"bontona\" tree was also considered sacred and villagers would tie charms to the branches when offering prayers. Each village also had a \"hazomanga\", a wooden pillar considered the most sacred site of worship, which served as the public altar for group prayer and offerings. This pillar was typically 20 to 30 feet high and a sachet containing sacred herbs, sand and wood chips was hung from the top. Bara men traditionally conduct the rites associated with honoring the ancestors, while women conduct rites associated with fertility and the forces of nature. An exception is childbirth, during which the mother is secluded for a period of four days; men watch over the birthing process and conduct associated rites.\n\nAgreements were traditionally formalized through a blood pact (\"fatidra\"). The Bara live in rectangular earthen houses that are colored red by the high iron content of the soil. In the winter, space beneath the eaves is used for hanging and sun-drying maize to be stored, sold or planted the following year.\n\nDemonstrating courage is fundamental to masculinity in Bara culture. Historically, kings were required to lead the advance in combat, placing themselves in danger first; the others were not allowed to protect him or come to his aid unless he was injured or exhausted. Cattle raiding is a major feature of Bara culture. Traditionally a rite of passage for young men to prove their worth and courage to a prospective wife's family and the larger community, the practice is currently outlawed but remains widespread throughout the southwest and south-central Bara territories. Young men could not expect to marry respectably without first having successfully stolen at least one or two cattle in a raid. Today, cattle rustlers (\"dahalo\") are increasingly armed bandits stealing cattle for wealth rather than social prestige. Zebu wrestling is a sport practiced by Bara communities and involves Zebu being penned into an arena and whipped into frustration. Once the zebu is angry, players sneak up behind the Zebu and jump onto its hump, attempting to 'ride' as long as possible without being injured by the beast. It is seen as a rite of passage for young boys.\n\nThe Bara have a rich oral storytelling tradition. Their myths and stories are distinguished by an especially stark and terse use of language. The comparatively simple structure and symbolism that predominates in Bara storytelling is used by some linguists and anthropologists as a starting point for analyzing the evolution and variation of oral storytelling traditions on the island. The dance traditions and sculpted artwork of the Bara are well known across the island. Their wooden statues are unique in having long eyelashes made from real hair.\n\nTraditionally, Bara women would weave local cotton to make clothing for themselves and their family members. Cotton continues to be hand picked, ginned and woven using a high-whorl drop spindle. Raw cotton yarn is typically dipped in a softening solution before weaving; prior to softening, the yarn is called \"fole velo\" (\"living yarn\") and is believed to be imbued with magical powers; \"ombiasy\" (village wisemen) may tie this yarn around the wrist for protection or wrap it around the bodies of participants in circumcision ceremonies. Less commonly, clothing was made of silk (\"landy\") produced by the local silkworm that fed off indigenous tapia trees growing in the Isalo area. Although this silk was more coarse and uneven than that produced by the Merina or Betsileo people, throughout the island it was the most prized type of silk because of its durability. In the far eastern part of Bara territory, clothing was most commonly made from beaten bark cloth or mats of \"harefo\" (\"Eleocharis plantagines\"). Women wore tube dresses made of two to three mats stitched together and tied at the shoulder or belted at the waist, often in combination with a bandeau style top of woven \"mahampy\" reeds. Men wore beaten bark cloth loincloths with jackets or tunics formed from stitched woven mats; older men's clothing included sleeves. The wearing of charms is common among the Bara, as elsewhere in Madagascar; charms called \"tsimokotra\" were historically crafted from the bones of lemurs' feet to relieve fatigue.\n\nAs elsewhere in Madagascar, social life among the Bara is strongly guided by \"fady\", ancestral taboos that often vary by class, by village, or even by family. In some Bara villages, it is forbidden to carry a load alone; at least two people must carry it together. A common prohibition throughout Bara communities forbids serving food or drink to someone with the utensils, plates or cups that were used to serve another. It is also fady to step over someone seated or lying on the ground, lift or carry an item over another person's head or body, brush another person with one's \"lamba\", or sit on or lean against another's bed.\n\nNumerous fady surround the Bara nobles. Among the Zafimanely royal clan, for example, it is forbidden to ever kill a relative, even as punishment for a serious crime. Historically it was taboo to speak to the wives of chiefs or enter their houses, and there were specific locations restricted to everyone but them for gathering firewood and collecting water. A particularly strong taboo forbade speaking the name of a chief after his death or any word that formed part of the name. The deceased leader was given a new name after death that all were required to use, and specific synonyms were selected to replace the words composing his name for use in regular conversation; anyone who spoke the forbidden words would harshly punished or in some instances executed.\n\nThe Bara entomb the dead in natural mountain caves, particularly in Isalo National Park, an area they consider sacred; they have buried their dead in the caves here for centuries. Where such natural formations are not available, the Bara build tombs covered in stones at a site away from the village. Mourners visit the bereaved in a special building called the \"house of many tears\" where the women engage in ritual wailing and expression of sorrow. The bereaved family members cut their hair to express mourning. Among many Bara, wives were not buried with their husband and his children, but were rather buried with their father or in a separate site. It is believed that the spirits of the dead linger as ghosts, which historically prompted villages to relocate after a death.\n\nThose associated with a recent death are seen as imbued with a kind of contagion for a short period of time. When \"bilo\" or \"salamanga\" healing rituals are being conducted, the \"ombiasy\" may erect a special barrier (\"kiady\") in front of the entrance to the house where the ceremony is being held as an indicator that anyone whose family member has recently died (as well as any foreigner or stranger outside the community) is forbidden to enter for concern about breaking the power of the healing spell.\n\nDance among the Bara is influenced by the movement of the zebu they have traditionally herded for centuries. The \"karitaky\" dance in particular is a movement inspired by a zebu kicking. The most popular contemporary dance, called \"kilalaky\", is performed in a line and originated among Bara cattle rustlers. The specific style of musical accompaniment, also known as \"kilalaky\", is performed on djembe, kabosy, electric guitar, bass guitar, drum kit and keyboard. Bagzana and Tsiliva are considered among the most popular performers of \"kilalaky\". The most typical musical instrument among the Bara is the \"lokanga\", a fiddle with three strings made of goat gut or vegetable fiber.\n\nThe Bara speak Bara Malagasy, a dialect of the Malagasy language, which is a branch of the Malayo-Polynesian language group derived from the Barito languages, spoken in southern Borneo.\n\nRaising and selling herds of zebu is the principal economic activity of the Bara. In recent decades they have increasingly adopted agricultural practices, including the cultivation of rice, cassava, millet and maize. The rice planting season was traditionally timed around the arrival of a local migrating quail (\"coturnix communis\"), known locally as \"kibodolo\". The Bara and Sakalava were Madagascar's principal international slave traders through the early part of the 19th century. Historically the majority of slave raids were conducted in the dry winter months. Beginning in the 1870s, in response to increased cattle demand in South Africa following a series of blights and disease that had decimated local herds, the Bara began exporting their cattle internationally through southern coastal ports including Toliara, Saint Augustin, Belo and Soalara. The development of economic activity independent of the regulation of the Kingdom of Imerina, as well as the arms they received in exchange for cattle, enabled the Bara to strengthen their autonomy and resist Merina authority in the later 19th century, even to the extent of launching cattle and slave raids into the heart of Imerina - an activity that increased particularly after 1882. The Ankandrarezina Bara also cultivated tapia, a mulberry upon which the indigenous silkworm fed; the silk they produced was both woven locally for cloth and exported in raw form to Imerina.\n\n"}
{"id": "18869192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18869192", "title": "Brazilian Canadians", "text": "Brazilian Canadians\n\nBrazilian Canadians or Brazo-Canadians (, ) are Canadians of Brazilian descent or Brazilians who have immigrated to Canada. The 1991 Canadian census reports 2,520 individuals of wholly Brazilian origin and another 2,325 who describe Brazilian as one of their ethnic origins (Brazilians themselves may be of varied European, African, Middle Eastern, East Asian and Amerindian ethnic origins), giving a total of 4,845. This figure can be taken as an official minimum and corresponds to Brazilian consular estimates.\n\nHowever, in the 1980s and 1990s a large number of younger Brazilians established families in Toronto. The local newspaper \"Abacaxi Times\" estimated that the total number of Brazilians living in Toronto in the 1990s was about 9,000. Probably an equal number of legal immigrants entered Ontario to that date. The total for Canada was 14,976. When refugee claimants and illegal immigrants are added, the total in Ontario alone may approach 12,000, with a few thousand more in Quebec and British Columbia; there are smaller groups scattered across the country. New immigrants have continued to enter the country, but at a much slower pace than in the previous decade.\n\nLike all Latin American Canadians, Brazilian Canadians are legally defined as a visible minority, irrespective of their ancestry or appearance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17455370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17455370", "title": "Cause Celeb", "text": "Cause Celeb\n\nCause Celeb is the debut novel of Helen Fielding, later known for her creation of the character Bridget Jones. her first novel is about a few years in the life of Rosie Richardson, who decides to go to Africa after she breaks up with her boyfriend, Oliver Marchant, a TV presenter. But after four years working in Nambula, a fictional country in Northern Africa, there is a famine coming and Rosie turns back to Oliver and his famous friends to get the food they desperately need.\n\nRosie Richardson works in marketing at a publisher, when she starts dating Oliver Merchant, and falls in love with him. Oliver is the host of the TV show called \"SoftFocus\" where they tackle mostly cultural and political topics. Their relationship is formed by his erratic behaviour, like one day telling her he loves her and then not calling for days.\n\nWhen Rosie has to go to Nambula on a business trip, the poverty and general environment shock her into the realisation that she wants to spend her life doing something meaningful. So she breaks up with Oliver and leaves to go to Nambula and work at a refugee camp, organised by \"Sustain\".\n\nFour years later, she is running the camp and feels attracted to a new doctor, Robert O'Rourke. Unfortunately, rumours about a locust invasion spread and about the shipping of food that will be late.\n\nSo Rosie decides that she has to take matters into her own hands. She flies back to England and gets in touch with Oliver and his circle of famous friends to raise funds. After some convincing, the stars and Rosie fly to Nambula for a one-hour fundraising show.\nIn the meantime, Oliver attempts reuniting with Rosie, who refuses him.\n\nAfter they handle some catastrophes, the show airs and is a full success. Food is delivered, the stars fly back and Rosie gets together with O'Rourke.\n\n"}
{"id": "1033839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1033839", "title": "Commission for Communications Regulation", "text": "Commission for Communications Regulation\n\nThe Commission for Communications Regulation (ComReg) () is the general communications regulator for Ireland, covering almost all possible types of communications.\n\nFounded on 1 December 2002, ComReg took over from the Office of the Director of Telecommunications Regulation (ODTR), amongst other bodies. The ODTR was established in 1997 to take over the licensing and regulatory functions of the Minister for Transport, Energy and Communication which related primarily to broadcasting and communications. The first (and only) Director of Telecommunications Regulation was Etain Doyle, who was subsequently appointed Chairperson of ComReg, on its establishment.\n\nUnder the Communications Regulation Act, 2002 the Minister for Communications, Marine, and Natural Resources appoints the chairperson and up to two other commissioners of ComReg. Currently the commissioners are Gerry Fahy, Jeremy Godfrey and Kevin O'Brien\nSectors regulated by ComReg include post, telecoms, internet, cable television, terrestrial television, radio and domain name under the Communications Regulation Act, 2002 (No. 20 of 2002), S.I. No. 510 of 2002 Communications Regulation Act 2002 (Establishment Day) Order 2002 and other acts. For a full list of legislation underpinning ComReg's responsibilities.\n\nComReg set prices, allocate frequencies, and issue licenses to those involved in these sectors and provides statistical data, consumer product price comparisons to assist consumers in achieving value for money on a fair basis. In relation to terrestrial television and radio, the commission acts in conjunction with the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland. After the enactment of the Broadcasting Act 2009 RTÉ and TG4 authorities were disbanded and now come under the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland's remit.\n\nComReg is also tasked with enforcing wireless telegraphy legislation, in particular the Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1926, in relation to use of the radio spectrum, which includes actions against pirate radio stations, distributors of mobile phone repeaters and other unlicensed users of radio spectrum.\n\nIn September 2004, ComReg launched their consumer driven website, AskComreg.i.e. Since then it has added ComStat.ie to provide market communications industry statistics to industry and academia and CallCosts.ie which provides the tariff models of all telecoms products for consumers to compare product prices and make the best choices for themselves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56174586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56174586", "title": "Coronation of the Emperor of Brazil", "text": "Coronation of the Emperor of Brazil\n\nThe coronation of the Emperor of Brazil was the religious rite of consecration during which the monarchs of the Empire of Brazil were solemnly blessed, anointed, crowned, invested with the other items of the imperial regalia and enthroned, according to the usages of the Catholic Church, the Empire's official, established Church. The coronation of the Brazilian monarch confirmed the accession of a new emperor to the throne, and corresponded to similar rites that took place in other Christian monarchies. The two Brazilian emperors, Pedro I and Pedro II underwent the ceremony of coronation, on 1 December 1822 and 18 July 1841, respectively. Those remain the two sole acts of coronation that took place in the South American continent.\n\nIn Brazil, the rites of coronation generally followed the Roman ritual for the coronation of Kings, as prescribed by the Roman Pontifical according to its edition then in force (promulgated by Pope Benedict XIV), in its \"ordo\" titled \"De Benedictione et coronatione Regis\", but with a few modifications, such as the natural replacement of references to \"king\" and \"kingdom\" to \"emperor\" and \"empire\", and the bestowal of a few items of regalia not contemplated in the rite of the Roman Pontifical (the delivery of an orb, the investiture with gloves and with a ring, etc.).\n\nWhile, even after the codification and uniformization of the Roman Rite following the Council of Trent, certain Catholic countries retained permission to continue using their own particular coronation rites (such as the rite of coronation of the Kings of France), the Roman ritual for the coronation of kings, as codified in the Roman Pontifical (first issued under Pope Clement VIII), became the standard coronation rite for the Latin Church, given that all liturgies included in the Roman Pontifical where prescribed for general use in the entire Roman Rite. As such, this rite was available for use by the Roman Rite bishops in Brazil and by the Brazilian monarchy, and was naturally adopted, as prescribed by the liturgical laws then in force in the Catholic Church. As with all the liturgical acts of the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church at the time, the ceremony of the coronation was conducted entirely in Latin, except for the sermon, that was preached in Portuguese, the local vernacular language.\n\nBrazil never used the rites for the coronation of a sovereign's consort, and therefore the empresses of Brazil were not crowned, including Empress Maria Leopoldina, who was already married to Pedro I at the time of his coronation, but was not crowned alongside her husband. The country also never employed the rite for the coronation of an empress regnant, because the Brazilian monarchy was abolished in 1889 by the military coup d'état that proclaimed Brazil a republic, before Princess Imperial Isabel could succeed her father on the throne.\n\nWhile other countries allowed the coronation of their monarchs while still minors and under regency, in Brazil the coronation of Emperor Pedro II (who succeeded to the crown while still a minor) only took place after the emperor had been declared of age and had assumed the personal discharge of the imperial authority.\n\nThe coronation of both emperors of Brazil took place in the then Cathedral of Rio de Janeiro, now known as the \"Old Cathedral\", that functioned as the Imperial Chapel.\n\nThe coronation of Emperor Pedro I was presided over by the Bishop of Rio de Janeiro, Major Chaplain of the Imperial Chapel, because Brazil's only Metropolitan, the Archbishop of São Salvador da Bahia, was unavailable. The coronation of Emperor Pedro II was presided by the then Metropolitan Archbishop of São Salvador da Bahia, Primate of Brazil. All Bishops of Brazil (then few in number) were summoned to attend the ceremonies of coronation. The coronation of Pedro II was attended by six bishops in addition to the Archbishop of Salvador.\n\nDetailed accounts of the coronations of the two Brazilian emperors exist, such as a very meticulous account of the coronation of emperor Dom Pedro II published by Rio de Janeiro's \"Jornal do Commercio\" newspaper on 20 July 1840 and in the works of historians Another source describing the proceedings that were to be observed in the coronation of emperor Dom Pedro I, including the ceremony for the taking of civil oaths (not prescribed in the Roman Pontifical) that were to be sworn at the conclusion of the liturgy, is the document \"Ceremonial of the consecration and coronation of Emperor Pedro I that is to take place in the Imperial Chapel of Our Lady of Mount Carmel on the 1st day of December of the current year\", that was approved by the imperial government on 20 November 1822 and is contained in a letter addressed by the Minister for the Empire, José Bonifácio de Andrada e Silva, to the imperial court's officers of arms. The said ceremonial was published in the volume of Government Decisions of the \"Collection of the Laws of Brazil\" for the year 1822. All those ceremonials and accounts of the festivities are only lacking on the question of the music that was played during the coronation liturgy (e.g. for the entrance and departure processions, etc.)\n\nIn the Empire of Brazil era, contemporaries referred to the act of coronation as the ceremony of \"sagração do Imperador\" (\"consecration of the emperor\"), in a way similar to the French habit of calling the coronation of the French monarch \"le sacre du roi\" (\"the king's consecration\"), placing emphasis in the act of consecration and anointing over the act of crowning. More formally, the rite was known to contemporaries as the ceremony of \"sagração e coroação\" (consecration and coronation), never ceasing to mention the first aspect.\n\nAs required by the Roman Pontifical, the both the 1822 and the 1841 coronations took place on Sundays and, in preparation for the solemnity, the emperor fasted on the preceding Wednesday and also on the preceding Friday and Saturday.\n\nIn the early morning the emperor (in the case of Pedro I, accompanied by the empress), left the Imperial Palace of St. Christopher, the imperial residence, and went by coach, in full state and with a large military ceremonial escort, to the Imperial Palace at the City, the formal seat of government, facing the Carmelite Convent and Rio de Janeiro's Cathedral (that also functioned as the Imperial Chapel, and was the site of the coronation). From the City Palace, the emperor and his family, preceded by heralds, kings of arms, ministers of the government and officers of state went to the cathedral in solemn procession.\n\nEmperor Pedro II saluted the members of the diplomatic corps at the City Palace before the start of his coronation procession, and the procession started at 11:00 a.m. Emperor Pedro I crossed the short distance between the palace and the cathedral under a canopy borne by four knights. Emperor Pedro II left the church under a similar canopy, but none is mentioned at the entrance. However, for the coronation of Pedro II, a temporary building connecting the palace to the cathedral was built, the coronation balcony, and thus the second Brazilian emperor walked the distance between the city palace and the church in the view of the people, but inside the balcony.\n\nThe emperor wore the military uniform of a knight, complete with spurs, and, at the initial stage of the ceremony, the dress included armour and a knight's mantle over it, a knight's sword and a helmet with feathers (that left his face visible).\nOnce in the church, the emperor removed his helmet, and was received near the door by the Bishop of Rio de Janeiro, Major Chaplain of the Imperial Chapel, accompanied by the canons of the cathedral. The bishop sprinkled the emperor with holy water. The emperor then replaced his helmet to walk down the aisle. As part of the entrance procession, officers of state who carried the items of the regalia delivered them to the clergy when arriving at the chancel, and the clergy placed the regalia that would later be delivered to the emperor on top of the Altar table, including the imperial sword, the crown, the gloves, the ring, the orb, the rod of the Hand of Justice and the sceptre.\n\nHaving walked down the nave, and before entering the chancel, the emperor turned left, and, removing his helmet once more, entered the Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament. There he knelt in prayer, before leaving that chapel, placing his helmet once more and entering the church's chancel. The officiating prelate awaited him in a faldstool before the altar, and the emperor was met at the chancel rails by a group of the assisting bishops, who flanked him. Members of the imperial Family, including the empress consort in the case of Pedro I and other ladies of the imperial court, took their seats the honour boxes in the second floor.\n\nArriving at the chancel area, the emperor then mounted the imperial throne, while the bishops and other clergy, who until then were in choir dress, were vested (the presiding prelate and his accompanying ministers - assistant priests, deacons, etc. - in vestments proper for pontifical Mass, the other bishops in cope and white mitre), while reciting the prescribed vesting prayers. The emperor's domestic chaplains who were to assist him at the throne remained in choir dress. The imperial throne was permanently present in the imperial chapel, in the chancel area, under a baldachin complete with drapes, immediately next to the steps leading to the presbytery, in the Gospel side of the chancel, that is, on the left side from the perspective of someone viewing from the nave. The bishop's cathedral and its baldachin were also in the Gospel side of the chancel, but in the sanctuary, on top of the presbytery steps, very near to the imperial throne, so that the imperial throne and the episcopal cathedra stood next to each other (although the cathedra was in a more elevated position). The throne dais had one step less than the presbytery steps, so that the throne was in an elevated position, but slightly lower than the sanctuary.\n\nWhen the clergy was ready, the assisting bishops came towards the throne to invite the emperor to appear before the officiating prelate, still sitting in his faldstool at the centre of the altar. The emperor then descended from the throne, and flanked by the assisting bishops, ascended the presbytery steps and, entering the sanctuary, approached the officiating prelate, kissing his hand. Immediately before mounting the presbytery steps and entering the sanctuary, the emperor removed his helmet for the final time, and delivered it to an aide. From this point on, the emperor remained bareheaded, until the moment of his crowning.\n\nThe coronation rites began with the petition, made by the senior assisting bishop to the officiating prelate, asking him, in the name of the Catholic Church, to perform the coronation. A dialogue followed to confirm the suitability of the person to be crowned. After that, a chair was brought and the emperor sat while the prelate read an admonition to the \"excellent prince\", about the duties of a sovereign. This admonition being concluded, the emperor stood, the chair was carried away, and the emperor knelt before the prelate and then took a solemn oath, known as a \"profession\", according to the form contained in the Roman pontifical. Placing his hand on a Bible that was presented to him, the monarch confirmed the oath with the Latin words \"Sic me Deus adjuvet, et haec sancta Dei Evangelia\", that mean, \"So help me God, and these holy Gospels of God\".\n\nThe emperor then remained kneeling facing the altar, while the officiating archbishop or bishop, standing before the kneeling monarch, pronounced in a loud voice the prayer \"Omnipotens sempiterne Deus, creator omnium\" to bless the emperor in preparation for his anointing, which prayer was repeated in a subdued voice by the other assisting bishops, from their places, as follows:\n\nLet us pray. \nAlmighty and everlasting God, creator of all things, Emperor of Angels, King of kings and Lord of lords, who caused your faithful servant Abraham to triumph over his enemies, gave many victories to Moses and Joshua, the leaders of your people, exalted your humble servant David to the eminence of kingship, enriched Solomon with the ineffable gifts of wisdom and peace, hear our humble prayers, we entreat, O Lord, and multiply your blessings (\"here a sign of the cross was made over the kneeling monarch\") upon this thy servant N., whom in prayerful devotion we elect and will consecrate as emperor; surround him always and everywhere with the strength of your right arm, that he, being firm in the faith like Abraham, endowed with meekness like Moses, armed with courage like Joshua, praiseworthy in humility like David, and distinguished with wisdom like Solomon, may please you in all things and always walk without offense in the way of inviolate justice; defended by the helmet of your protection, covered with your invincible shield and clothed with heavenly armour; may he obtain the happy triumph of victory over the enemies of the Holy Cross of Christ, cause them to fear its power, and bring peace to those who are your soldiers. Through Jesus Christ our Lord, who by the power of His Cross has destroyed hell, overcame the kingdom of the devil, ascended victorious into Heaven, and in whom subsists all power, kingship and victory, He who is the glory of the humble and the life and salvation of the peoples, Who lives and reigns with You in the unity of Holy Spirit, one God, forever and ever. Amen.\nAfter this prayer was concluded, the emperor stood and went to the Gospel side of the altar (the left hand side from the perspective of those in the nave), where he knelt before a faldstool and prostrated his head on the cushion of the faldstool. The Litany of the Saints was then begun by the choir.\n\nDuring the Litany of the Saints the presiding prelate also knelt in a faldstool at the centre of the altar, and all those present knelt in their places. The presiding prelate read the litany in a low voice while it was chanted aloud by the choir. After most of the invocations, at the point indicated by the Roman Pontifical, the choir paused, the officiating prelate stood and, with his pastoral staff in his hand, went towards the emperor, and standing before him, he recited aloud two of the invocations of the litany that were specific to the coronation rite: the first asked God \"deign to bless this emperor-elect who is about to be crowned\" (a sign of the cross being made over the emperor at the word \"bless\"), and the second asking God to \"bless and consecrate this emperor-elect who is about to be crowned\" (two additional signs of the cross being made over the emperor at the words \"bless\" and \"consecrate\"). After this, the officiating archbishop or bishop returned to his place and the litany was continued, being chanted by the choir until its conclusion.\n\nAfter the litany, while all remained kneeling and the emperor remained prostrate, the presiding prelate rose, removed his mitre, and recited the Lord's prayer: the words \"Pater noster\" were said aloud and the rest of the prayer was recited in silence, until the words \"et ne nos inducas in tentationem\", that were said aloud, prompting the people to respond with the final verse of the prayer: \"sed libera nos a malo\". A series of verses and responses then followed, several of them asking God's protection upon the emperor, his servant. After the last exchange of verse and response, the prelate proclaimed \"oremus\" (\"let us pray\") and he, together with the other Bishops present, recited two short prayers, one asking God to grant his heavenly aid to \"this His servant\" (the emperor); the other asking God to inspire and to confirm the actions of His bishops.\n\nAt this point the officiating prelate and the other bishops resumed the use of their mitres. The emperor then rose from his prostration, and all other attendants at the coronation who were kneeling then rose as well. Then the emperor, with the help of his peers and ministers removed his collars and sash of orders of chivalry, and other insignia, removed the knight's mantle and armour, and military dress (including, in the case of Pedro II, even the knight's boots and the spurs), and stood finally, in the white trousers of the imperial court dress and a simple white linen shirt that had special openings to permit the anoinings. Meanwhile, the assisting bishops formed a circle around the monarch, shielding him from general view. There the emperor knelt to be anointed by the consecrating prelate, who sat before him at the faldstool at the centre of the altar. In preparation for the anointing, a gremiale was extended over the consecrating prelate's lap by the altar servers, and the prelate, aided by the servers, removed his episcopal ring, the episcopal glove of the right hand, and then replaced the ring on the fourth finger of his bare right hand.\n\nThe presiding archbishop or bishop then dipped his right thumb in the holy oil known as the Oil of Cathecumens, and anointed the emperor in two places, both anointings being made in the form of a cross: first the unction was performed in the emperor's right forearm, between the joint of the elbow and the joint of the fist; then the emperor reclined over the prelate and was anointed in his back, between the shoulders, starting at the base of the neck. For this anointing, silver buttons at the back of the emperor's garment were opened, being closed afterwards. While performing the holy anointing, the celebrating prelate, with a clear voice, addressed the emperor with the formula \"Deus, Dei Filius\", that was repeated in a low voice by the other bishops, in the following words: \nGod, the Son of God, Our Lord Jesus Christ, who by the Father was anointed with the oil of gladness above his fellows, may He himself, by this present infusion of sacred anointing pour upon your head the blessing (\"here a sign of the cross was made over the emperor\") of the Spirit Paraclete, so that He may penetrate into the innermost recesses of your heart, in order that you receive, by this visible and material oil, invisible gifts, and, finally, having performed the just government of this temporal empire, you may merit to reign eternally with Him who alone is the sinless King of Kings, Who lives and is glorified with God the Father in the unity of God the Holy Spirit, for ever and ever. Amen.\nAfter the anointing and the recitation of the above-mentioned formula (that, with minor changes in wording, featured also in several other rites of consecration of Christian monarchs, such as old rite for the coronation of the Holy Roman Emperor and the French, the English, and the Hungarian royal coronation rites), the gremiale was taken away by the altar servers and the presiding prelate then immediately stood and recited aloud the following prayer to God (the prayer \"Omnipotens sempiterne Deus, qui Hazael super Syriam\"...), that was repeated in a low voice by the other assistant bishops, with the emperor still kneeling, as follows:\nLet us pray. Almighty everlasting God, who made to be anointed as kings, Hazael over Syria, and Jehu over Israel by [the hands of] Elijah; and also David and Saul by [the hands of] the Prophet Samuel, we beseech You, grant Your blessing to the work of our hands, and to this your servant N., whom we, though unworthy, today anointed as emperor with a sacred unction, bestow the force and efficacy of the said ointment; constitute, O Lord, the principality over his shoulders, that he be a strong, just, faithful, and prudent ruler of this Empire and of Your people: a purger of the infidels, a cultivator of justice, a rewarder of merits and repayer of faults, a defender of Your Holy Church and of the Christian faith, for the honour and praise of Your glorious Name. Through Jesus Christ our Lord, your Son, Who with You lives and reigns in the unity of the Holy Spirit, God forever and ever. Amen.\nWith this prayer, the consecration of the emperor was complete.\n\nFrom this point onwards, the monarch was never again referred to in liturgical prayers as \"emperor elect\" but as \"emperor\". It must be noted, however, that although the Catholic coronation liturgy treated the sovereign as \"the elect\" on coronation day prior to the moment of his anointing and the associated consecratory prayers, under the Constitution of the Empire of Brazil and its laws an emperor succeeded to the crown and to the imperial title as soon as his predecessor died or abdicated. The consecration and coronation of the monarch, therefore, was a solemn sacramental intended to bless the sovereign and to confirm his accession to the throne, but the assumption of the imperial dignity did not depend on it.\n\nFrom the perspective of religion, however, the anointing of the monarch bestowed upon him a sacred character, and the coronation rite placed him in a special position within the Catholic hierarchy. The anointed sovereign became a \"mixta persona\": no longer fully a layman; endowed with some of the status of the clergy, but also not a clergyman, and tasked by the words of the coronation ritual with the mission of being a \"mediator between clergy and people\". Also, the tradition of the Church viewed Christian monarchs not only as civil rulers of Christian nations, but also as defenders of the Church and helpers of the ecclesiastical authority. Furthermore, the task of governing a Christian people was understood a holy one. Thus, the coronation ritual was predicated on the view that the monarch had a sacred function, as was sacred the function of the biblical Israelite kings and of the other leaders of the Israelites mentioned in the prayers of the coronation rite. Although the coronation of a monarch is not a sacrament but a sacramental (unlike the Sacrament of Holy Orders that constitutes deacons, priests and bishops), it is still a solemn religious act of consecration, like the dedication of a new church or of an altar, the blessing of a monk as an abbot to govern a monastery or the consecration of virgins as nuns: by the said act of consecration the monarch was set apart as possessing a sacred character not equal but similar to that of the clergy, and was invested with a kingship that derived from God like the kingship of the ancient kings of Israel.\n\nAfter the above-mentioned prayer, the anointings were duly purified, and the presiding prelate, removing his episcopal ring, washed his hands. He then resumed the use of the episcopal gloves and replaced the ring in the fourth finger of his right hand over the glove. Meanwhile, the emperor stood to receive the imperial vestments.\n\nThe rites of the anointing being concluded, newly consecrated emperor rose to his feet to be clad in the imperial vestments (the same majestic dress that was thereafter used for the opening and closing of the annual sessions of the Imperial Parliament).\n\nThe Roman Pontificial provided options for this. The newly anointed monarch could either briefly retire to the church's sacristy to put on the majestatic vestments, returning to the sacred space of the church when already dressed, or he could be dressed in the sacred space of the church itself. In the coronation of Emperor Pedro I, the first pattern was followed (with the emperor going to the sacristy and then returning to the sacred area of the church via a door in the chancel area of the chapel that connected the chancel to the sacristy), while in the coronation of Pedro II the second pattern was followed.\n\nIn either case, the emperor's officers of state attended to him and aided him in putting on the imperial vestments, including, a white robe of state in the form of a deacon's dalmatic, a sash and collar of Orders of Chivalry. As for the monarch's shoes, although Emperor Pedro I continued wearing the metal boots of a knight throughout the entire coronation ceremony, Emperor Pedro II removed his knight’s boots for the anointing, and afterwards, while being dressed in his robes of state, put on white shoes that were part of his majestatic vestments and that matched his white robe. In the case of the coronation of Pedro II, that was vested in the chancel area of the cathedral, in the sight of all the attendants of the coronation ceremony, the final, most symbolic items of the imperial robes of state (the imperial mantle and the pallium), were delivered to him not by his officers of state but by the officiating archbishop. After the emperor's officers of state had clad him in the other items of the imperial vestments, the archbishop then approached the emperor, and, aided by the emperor's major chamberlain, who brought forward the imperial mantle, the prelate vested the emperor with the imperial mantle (which had a top surface of dark green velvet embroidered with gold, and was of the cloth of gold in the internal surface), and clad the emperor with the pallium over the mantle. The pallium stood over the shoulders in the manner of a mozzetta, and the mantle had a train. In the case of the coronation of Pedro I, however, when he returned from the sacristy he did so already wearing the mantle and pallium.\n\nAfter the emperor was fully robed, he was led back to his throne. The major chamberlain carried the train of the imperial mantle at this time and in all the following occasions when the emperor had to walk while using the mantle. Arriving at the dais of the throne, the emperor stood there on the top of the steps but without sitting on the throne chair, accompanied by two chaplains of his household. A prie-dieu was placed in front of him, and he knelt under the canopy of the throne to hear Holy Mass, flanked by his domestic chaplains.\n\nThe celebrating archbishop or bishop, aided by his ministers, then started the celebration of Holy Mass, reciting the prayers at the foot of the altar, and then ascended the altar while the choir sang the introit. The Coronation Mass took the form of a Pontifical High Mass. While the celebrating prelate recited the Confiteor with his ministers, the emperor also recited the Confiteor with his domestic chaplains under the canopy of the throne, as directed by the coronation rite of the Roman Pontifical. The Coronation Mass followed the liturgical propers of the Mass of the day (including the introit antiphon, the reading of the Epistle, the gradual or tract, the reading of the Gospel, the offertory antiphon, the preface and the communion antiphon), but, at the occasions of the collect prayer, the secret prayer, and the prayer after Communion, special prayers for the emperor, prescribed in the coronation rite of the Roman Pontifical, were recited after the normal prayers of the liturgy of the day contained in the Roman Missal. Those special collect, secret and postcommunion prayers for the monarch were the same ones that are prescribed in the Roman Missal for the votive \"Missa pro Rege\" (Mass for the King), with the natural replacement of all mentions of \"king\" for \"emperor\".\n\nBecause the coronation always took place on a Sunday, as required by the Roman Pontifical, the \"Gloria\" was sung after the \"Kyrie\" (except if the liturgy took place in the penitential liturgical seasons of Lent, Septuagesima or Advent) and the Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed was sung after the reading of the Gospel. After the \"Gloria\" and the Collect of the day, the special Collect for the emperor was as follows:\nWe humbly ask, all powerful God, that your servant N., our emperor, who by your mercy received the government of this Empire, may receive also the increase of all virtues, and that through them he may avoid all the monstrous vices, and that he may with grace arrive unto you, who are the way, the truth and life. Through Our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son, who with You lives and reigns in the unity of the Holy Spirit, God, for ever and ever. Amen.\nThe celebration of Mass was then continued until and excluding the 'Alleluia' before the Gospel (or, when there was no Alleluia due to the liturgical season, until and excluding the last verse of tract, or, when appropriate, until and excluding the sequence preceding the Gospel). Therefore, after the reading of the Epistle and the chanting of the Gradual, the normal liturgy of the Mass was interrupted, and the specific ceremonies of the coronation were resumed, so that the delivery of the imperial insignia, including the emperor's actual coronation and enthronement, took place within the celebration of the Eucharist.\n\nOnce the Eucharistic celebration was paused after the Gradual, the emperor, who until then remained kneeling, reading and listening to the Mass together with his domestic chaplains under the canopy of the throne, stood and descended from the throne dais, and, accompanied by the assistant bishops, entered the presbitery and presented himself once more to the celebrating archbishop or bishop, kissing his hand. Meanwhile, the prelate had descended from the Episcopal cathedra and had sat once more at the faldstool at the centre of the altar. The emperor then knelt before the presiding prelate, to be invested with the imperial sword. The prelate stood to perform this ceremony. A deacon brought the sword from the altar in its scabbard, and presented it to the Minister of War, who removed it from its scabbard and delivered it to the celebrating archbishop or bishop, who took it by the blade and presented it to the emperor, who took it by its base, while the celebrating prelate pronounced the long and very ancient formula for the delivery of the sword, \"Accipe gladium de Altare sumptum per nostras manus...\", in the following words:\nReceive from our hands that, though unworthy, have yet been consecrated to be in the place and discharge the authority of the holy Apostles, the sword brought from the Altar, which is given to you as emperor, and which, as ordained by God, is dedicated by our blessing (\"here a sign of the Cross was made\") to the defence of the Holy Church of God; and be mindful of what the Psalmist prophetised, saying \"Gird yourself with your sword upon your thigh, O most mighty one\", that by it you may excercise the force of equity, mightily destroy the growth of iniquity, protect and advance the Holy Church of God and its faithful people; no less than you shall pursue and disperse the false faithful and the enemies of the Christian name; mercifully help and defend widows and orphans, restore those things which have fallen into decay and maintain those things that were restored, avenge injustices and confirm good dispositions; that, in so doing, you may be glorious by the triumph of virtue, and be an eminent cultivator of justice, that you may merit to reign without end with the Saviour of the world, Who lives and reigns with God the Father and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever. Amen.\n\nAfter this formula was recited, the emperor gave the sword back to the officiating archbishop or bishop, who gave it back to the deacon, who gave it back to the Minister of War, who placed it in its scabbard. And then the Minister of War returned the sword, in its scabbard, to the deacon, who returned it to the celebrating prelate, who tied it to the emperor's waist by the left tigh, and after the emperor was thus girded with the sword, the prelate pronounced the formula \"Accingere gladio tuo\", etc., in the following words:\nGird yourself with your sword upon your thigh, O most mighty one, and beware that the Saints conquered kingdoms not through the sword, but by the Faith.\n\nThe emperor then arose, and removed the sword from its scabbard, and made vibrations and motions with it in the air and passed with the blade through his left arm as though cleansing it, and then replaced the sword in the scabbard at his thigh, and knelt once more.\n\nAll the assisting bishops then gathered around the emperor in the form of a circle, while the celebrating archbishop or bishop went to the altar himself to pick up the imperial crown. The emperor, still kneeling, was then reverently crowned by the celebrating prelate, in the Name of the Most Holy Trinity, and all the bishops placed their hands on top of the crown, while the presiding prelate recited aloud the formula \"Accipe coronam imperii...\" (\"Receive the crown of the Empire...\"), that was recited also in a subdued voice by the other bishops, and as the names of each of the Three Divine Persons were spoken, signs of the Cross were made over the newly crowned emperor to bless his crowing, as follows:\nReceive the Crown of the Empire, that by the hands of us bishops, though unworthy, is imposed upon your head (\"at this point the crown was lowered at the head of the monarch by the celebrating archbishop or bishop and he and the other bishops placed their hands upon it\"), in the name of the Father (\"at this point all prelates made a first sign of the cross over the crowned emperor\"), and of the Son (\"at this point a second sign of the cross was made\"), and of the Holy Spirit (\"at this point a third sign of the cross was made\"); and know that it signifies the glory of holiness, honour, and righteousness, and do not ignore that by it you become a partaker in our ministry; so that, just as we are in the internal forum pastors and rectors of souls, so be you in the external forum a sincere worshiper of God and a strenuous defender assisting the Church of Christ against all adversities; and may you show yourself to be a useful trustee and a profitable ruler of the Empire that God has given you and committed to your government by means of our blessing as placeholders of the Apostles and with the aid of all the saints; so that, ornamented with the jewels of the virtues, and crowned with the reward of everlasting happiness, you may have among the glorious athletes a glory without end with our Saviour and Redeemer, Jesus Christ, in whose Name and place you believe to govern, Who lives and rules, one God, with the Father and the Holy Spirit, forever and ever. Amen.\nAfter the crowning proper, the bishops removed their hands from the crown and the emperor, still kneeling, received the other items of the regalia.\n\nOnce the crowning was concluded, the emperor remained kneeling and received several items of Regalia without any form of words being said, because those items of Regalia were not prescribed in the Roman Pontifical. The first of those items were the adorned white gloves for both hands of the emperor, followed by the delivery of the imperial ring. A deacon brought from the Altar to the presiding prelate a silver plate with the emperor's gloves and a case containing the imperial ring. The presiding archbishop or bishop then vested the emperor with the gloves, and immediately thereafter placed the ring in the fourth finger of the emperor's right hand, over the glove. The same deacon then went up to the altar, and brought the imperial orb, and presented it to the presiding prelate, who delivered it to the emperor. After holding it for a while, the emperor delivered the orb to his Minister of Foreign Affairs. Afterwards, the same deacon went to the altar and picked up the rod of the Hand of Justice (\"main de Justice\"), and presented it to the celebrating prelate, who delivered it to the kneeling emperor. The emperor then handed the Rod of the Hand of Justice to his Justice Minister.\n\nAfter the delivery of those items of regalia, the emperor then received a final insignia, that was foreseen in the Roman Pontifical, and for which, therefore, a form of words of investiture was prescribed: the sceptre. The same deacon went up the steps of the altar, and brought from the altar table the very large sceptre, and presented it to the celebrating Archbishop or bishop, who delivered it to the emperor, who took it with his right hand. The presiding prelate then recited the formula for the delivery of the sceptre, \"Accipe virgam virtutis\", etc., in the following words: \n\nReceive the rod of virtue and truth and understand that with it you must encourage the pious and intimidate the reprobate; guide the straying; lend a hand to the fallen; repress the proud and raise the humble; and may Our Lord Jesus Christ open to you the door, He who said of himself, \"I am the Door, whoever enters by me, by me shall be saved,\" and let Him who is the Key of David and the sceptre of the House of Israel be your helper: He Who opens and no one may shut, Who shuts and no one may open; and let Him be your guide, Who brings the captive out of prison, where he seats in darkness and the shadow of death; that in all things you may imitate Him, of whom the Prophet David said, \"Your seat, O God, endures forever; a rod of righteousness is the rod of your kingdom\". Imitating Him, may you love justice and hate iniquity. For that purpose God, your God, has anointed you, after the example of Him who before the centuries was anointed with the oil of gladness above His fellows, Jesus Christ, Our Lord, Who with Him lives and reigns, God, for ever and ever. Amen.\nAfter the delivery of the imperial insignia was complete, the emperor rose to his feet, and, aided by his officers of state, removed the imperial sword, in is scabbard, from his waist. The emperor handed the sword, in its adorned scabbard, to his Minister of War, who thus bore it in its scabbard before the emperor for the remainder of the ceremony.\n\nThe Ministers carrying the sword, the orb, and the rod of the Hand of Justice then stood on the side steps next to the emperor's throne. The emperor, with the crown on his head, the sceptre in his right hand, and wearing his full majestatic dress (his pallium, mantle and other robes of State) and also the gloves on both hands and the ring on the fourth finger of his right hand, then proceeded towards his throne, led by all the Bishops. The officiating prelate walked to the emperor's right, and the senior assistant prelate to the emperor's left. Aided by the bishops, the emperor ascended the steps of the throne, and, under the canopy, the emperor was placed at the throne chair by the two highest ranking prelates: the celebrating prelate held the emperor's right arm and the senior assistant prelate his left arm while seating the emperor on the throne. Once the emperor was seated, the prelates removed their hands from his arms. The emperor was thus enthroned. As soon as the monarch had taken his seat upon the throne, the presiding prelate, addressing him, recited the formula of enthronement, \"Sta et retine\", etc.:\n\nStay firm and hold fast to the place delegated to you by God, by the authority of Almighty God, and by this our present transmission, that is to say, of all the bishops and of other servants of God; and when you see the clergy draw near to the holy altar, remember to give them appropriate honour, so that the Mediator between God and humanity may confirm you in this position as the mediator between clergy and people.\nAfter the enthronement, the presiding prelate and the other bishops went to the altar, and the presiding prelate, ascending the steps of the altar and facing it, removed his mitre and entoned the solemn hymn of praise and thanksgiving \"Te Deum laudamus\", that was continued by the choir. The officiating prelate read the hymn in silence continuously and quickly while the initial verses were still being chanted by the choir in poliphony. After finishing his quiet reading of the hymn at the altar and while the choir was still singing the same hymn, the presiding prelate left the altar and returned to the emperor's throne, standing at one of the steps of the throne at the emperor's right hand side. There the officiating prelate waited the conclusion of the singing of the Te Deum by the choir. While all the guests and participants of the coronation remained standing, the emperor remained seated in his throne, crowned and holding the sceptre.\n\nOnce the singing of the \"Te Deum\" was concluded, the celebrating archbishop or bishop recited a few verses over the emperor, while the clergy and people present recited the responses. The first exchange was: \"V. Let your hand be strengthened and your right hand be exalted\"; \"R. Let justice and judgment be the foundations of your throne\". Those exchanges being finished, the officiating prelate recited two solemn prayers. During those prayers the emperor stood from the throne chair, and the archbishop remained next to him and to his right, at the steps of the throne, looking towards the Altar. The first of those two prayers was the prayer \"God who gave Moses victory...\" (\"Deus qui victrices Moysi...\"); and the second was the prayer, \"God, inexplicable author of the world...\" (\"Deus, inenarrabilis auctor mundi...\"). While the first prayer was for the whole people, the second prayer was an additional petition of God's blessings specifically for the newly crowned emperor, and while reciting it twice the presiding prelate produced the sign of the cross towards the monarch as an act of benediction. This prayer for the emperor had the following form of words: \nLet us pray. God, inexplicable author of the world, creator of the humankind, confirmer of kingdoms, Who from the descendants of Your faithful friend, our Patriarch Abraham, pre-ordained the future King of the centuries to come, may You deign to enrich this illustrious emperor here present, together with his army, with an abundant blessing (\"here the sign of the cross was made towards the emperor\"), by the intercession of the blessed ever Virgin Mary, and of all the saints, and unite him in firm stability to the imperial throne; visit him, as you visited Moses in the [burning] bush, Joshua in battle, Gideon in the field and Samuel in the Temple; bestow upon him same blessing (\"here the sign of the cross was again made towards the emperor\") from on high, and the same infusion with the dew of Your wisdom, that the blessed David, in the Plsalter, and Solomon his son, received from Heaven, by Your concession. May You be for him an armour against the enemy hosts, a helmet in adversity, wisdom in prosperity, a perpetual shield of protection. And grant that the peoples remain faithful unto him; his peers maintain peace; love charity, abstain from greed, speak with justice, guard the truth, and thus may this people under his empire grow, united by the blessing of eternity, so that, always in triumph, they remain in peace, and victorious. This may He vouchsafe to grant, Who with You lives and reigns in unity with the Holy Spirit, forever and ever. Amen.\n\nOnce the said prayers were finished, the celebrating archbishop or bishop left the right hand side of the monarch at the steps of the throne and returned to the altar. The celebration of the Mass was resumed from the point where it had been interrupted after the Gradual, that is to say, with the recitation of the Alleluia, or of the last verse of tract, or of the sequence. A prie-dieu was again placed in front of the throne, so that the emperor could kneel when appropriate, and, while the other sacred ministers were at the altar, the emperor's domestic chaplains again attended to him at the throne. For the reading of the Gospel, the emperor stood and removed the crown, that was delivered to one of his officers of state who stood on the side steps of the throne, bearing the crown on a cushion. At the end of the Gospel reading, the Gospel book was brought to the throne by the reading deacon for the emperor to kiss, a ceremony not prescribed by the Roman Pontifical, but that was customary in solemn Masses in the presence of the emperor. The emperor resumed the use of the crown once the reading of the Gospel was finished and after having kissed the Gospel book. After the Gospel there was no homily (a sermon was preached after the conclusion of the Mass), and the Mass continued as usual in the Tridentine form, with the recitation of the Nicene Creed followed by the offertory.\n\nAt the offertory, after the initial prayers, and after the celebrating prelate had censed the offerings of bread and wine, the cross at the Altar, and the Altar itself, and after he handed the thurible to the deacon and was incensed himself, but before the washing of hands, the normal rite of Mass was again paused for a brief special ceremony in which the emperor presented gifts to the Church: the celebrating prelate went to his cathedra (in the case of the coronation of Pedro I, presided by the Bishop of Rio), or to a faldstool at the altar (in the case of the coronation of Pedro II, presided by the Archbishop of Salvador), and there waited for the emperor, who came from his throne, fully vested as always, and with the crown on his head and the sceptre in his right hand. Kneeling before the celebrating prelate, the emperor received from his officers of state a lit candle encrusted with gold coins, and delivered that candle to the prelate as a gift. The emperor also donated two pieces in the form of bread, one of gold, the other of silver. And after presenting the gifts, the emperor kissed the prelate's hand, rose to his feet, returned to the throne, and the liturgy of the Mass continued, with the celebrating prelate returning to the Altar for the rite of washing of hands.\n\nIn the insensations by the deacon that followed the washing of the hands of the celebrant, the emperor was incensed separately from the people, and before them. Once all ceremonies of the offertory were concluded, a special secret prayer was recited for the emperor after the day's proper secret.\n\nAt the dialogue introducing the Preface, as the bishops removed their skullcaps and stood bareheaded in preparation for the consecration of the Eucharist, the emperor removed his crown and delivered it to be held by the same officer of state who bore it during the Gospel reading. The emperor also delivered his sceptre to another aide. The emperor remained without crown or sceptre until the Communion, and resumed their use immediately before the postcommunion prayer. At the \"Sanctus\" the emperor knelt for the Canon of the Mass as usual, and remained kneeling at the prie-dieu at the throne dais until the conclusion of the Eucharistic Prayer. After the Roman Canon, Mass continued normally, with the \"Pater Noster\" and the prayers that followed, the emperor standing or kneeling when appropriate.\n\nFor the ceremony of the kiss of peace an \"instrumentum pacis\" was used, and the emperor received the greeting from the senior assistant bishop.\n\nFor the reception of Holy Communion, after the celebrating archbishop or bishop had taken communion under the appearances of bread and wine, and after the rites in preparation for the communion of the faithful had taken place, the emperor descended from the throne and went to the altar. There, by special privilege, he ascended the altar steps, and, arriving near to the altar table, he knelt at the altar's highest step to receive Communion. He then kissed the celebrating Prelate's hand, and received the Eucharist, under the species of bread alone (as usual for the lay faithful and even for the clergy other than the celebrant). Though a few other coronation rites contained special privileges allowing for the reception of Communion under both kinds by the monarch on coronation day (such as the rite of coronation of the kings of France), the general coronation rite of the Roman Pontifical did not contemplate this. On the contrary, the rubrics of the Roman Pontifical expressly reiterated that the celebrant should drink the whole of the Eucharist under the appearance of wine, so that the monarch, though allowed to ascend to the altar, received Communion only under the appearance of bread.\n\nOnly the celebrating prelate and the emperor received Communion during the Coronation Mass. After receiving Communion and consumming the Sacred Host, and after having said in silence his private devotional prayers customary upon the reception of the Eurcharist, and while the Communion antiphon was still being chanted by the choir, the emperor, still kneeling at the highest step of the Altar, performed ablutions with the chalice, that was then presented to him by the celebrating prelate. The celebrant also performed ablutions, and drank the contents of the chalice.\n\nReturning to the throne, the emperor resumed the use of his crown and sceptre, and rose from the throne chair to hear the prayers after Communion. After the prayer of the day, a special postcommunion prayer was recited for the emperor\n\nMass thereafter continued normally until its conclusion. For the Last Gospel, the emperor again, for the third and last time, removed his crown, and remained uncrowned until the conclusion of the sermon that followed the Mass, the promulgation of indulgences and the imparting of the solemn blessing, as described below, resuming the use of the crown as soon as the blessing was given.\n\nImmediately after the Last Gospel, the Mass being finished, a sermon was preached. The emperor, without crown as described above, but holding the sceptre, sat on the throne to hear the sermon. The sermon for the coronation of Pedro I was preached by the friar preacher of the imperial household, and the sermon for the coronation of Pedro II was preached by the abbot general of the Order of St. Benedict in Brazil. The theme of this last sermon was the anointing of Solomon by Zadok the Priest and Nathan the Prophet.\n\nAfter the sermon, the indulgences granted by the presiding prelate were announced, and the prelate imparted upon all those present the solemn pontifical blessing, according to the form contained in the Roman Pontifical for use in special occasions. The rubrics of this promulgation of indulgences and solemn blessing were contained in the Roman Pontifical under the heading \"Ritus et Formula Absolutionis et Benedictionis Pontificalis post homiliam seu sermonem infra Missae solemnis celebratione\". The rubrics of the coronation rite also specifically called for this blessing to be given at the end of the coronation liturgy.\n\nOnce the solemn pontifical blessing was given, the emperor resumed the use of his crown. The said blessing concluded the liturgical acts of the coronation.\n\nAfter the solemn blessing, in the case of the coronation of Pedro II, the emperor commanded the exit procession to start, and in procession departed the church.\n\nIn the case of the 1822 coronation of Emperor Pedro I, however, the liturgy of the coronation proper was followed by oaths that were taken by the emperor and by representatives of the people, still inside the church. Only after those oaths were taken, Emperor Pedro I commanded the exit procession to start and departed the church.\n\nThose oaths taken at the conclusion of Pedro I's coronation were religious in character, because they were made on the Gospels in the presence of the clergy and inside the cathedral where the coronation had taken place, but they were not composed by the Church, and they should not be confused with the oath known as \"the profession\", made by the emperor during the introductory rites of the coronation ceremony. The profession made at the initial stages of the coronation rite is a liturgical oath, and its text is prescribed by the Church in the Roman Pontifical. On the other hand, the oaths taken at the conclusion of Pedro I's coronation were neither liturgical nor prescribed by the Church, being instead oaths instituted by the imperial government, that is, by the civil authority.\n\nThe two oaths made by Pedro I at his coronation had a different focus, contemplating a different set of promises. The ecclesiastical oath before the prayer of solemn blessing, the litany of the saints and the anointing was a traditional, centuries-old vow that focused on the rights of the Church and on a generic pledge by the monarch to honour and to do good by his nobles and other subjects. The civil oath taken still at the cathedral but immediately after the conclusion of the coronation liturgy was a promise to rule according to law and to abide by the future Constitution that would be adopted for the Empire. Therefore, the two oaths taken by Emperor Pedro I at his coronation complemented each other, as the promises made in the civil oath added to those of the ecclesiastical vow.\n\nNo such civil oaths were taken at the conclusion of Pedro II' coronation in 1841, because in 1840 he had already taken, before the Imperial Parliament, the oath prescribed by article 102 of the Empire's Constitution.\n\nTherefore, in the coronation of Pedro II, the sermon and the final blessing were immediately followed by the exit procession and by the emperor's departure from the Church, whereas in the coronation of Pedro I the sermon and the final blessing were followed by the ceremony of the takning of the civil oaths.\n\nThis ceremony took place as follows. Aides brought a credence table to the dais of the throne. This table was placed on top of the steps, in front of the throne but to its right and not at the centre of the dais, with the emperor still sitting on the throne Chair, with the crown on his head and holding his sceptre. The Book of the Gospels was placed on the said table. The Bishop Major Chaplain, who had presided over the coronation, then took the book of the Gospels and brought it to the emperor. The Minister of Justice prompted the emperor to recite the words of the oath: the said minister made a profound reverence to the emperor and read the formula of the emperor's oath, that was repeated by the emperor from his throne Chair. While taking the oath, the seated emperor placed his hand on the Gospel book that was held by the Bishop Major Chaplain. This was followed by acclamations prompted by the king of arms, that were repeated by all those present at the cathedral.\n\nAfter the said acclamations, the attorneys-general representing the provinces of the empire, the president and members of Rio's city council and the representatives sent by other municipal councils were led from their places to the front of the throne, below the steps. It is worth noting that Pedro I's coronation took place in 1822 just a few months after he declared Brazil's independence from Portugal and was acclaimed as emperor, and before a Parliament could be elected. Therefore, Brazil still lacked a national Legislature, and the members of the council of attorneys-general of the provinces, the members of the capital's municipal council and the representatives of the other municipal councils that sent delegates to attend the coronation acted as the representatives of the people.\n\nThe Gospel Book was again placed on the table in front of the throne. The Minister of Justice then read aloud the formula of the collective oath of the provincial attorneys-general, members of Rio's city council and representatives sent by other municipal councils. That oath was promise of allegiance to the newly crowned emperor and his successors and to the laws of the Empire. Immediately thereafter those officers, one by one, bowing to the emperor, ascended the steps of the throne, and, kneeling at the highest step before the above-mentioned table, placed their hands on the Gospel Book and confirmed their acceptance of the oath of allegiance that the Minister had read by saying \"I do so swear\". Each officer then rose and descended from the throne steps.\n\nThe texts of the oaths prescribed by the imperial government to be taken by Emperor Pedro I and by the provincial attorneys-general, members of Rio's city council and representatives of other councils were published in a government decision dated 27 November 1822 that is included in the official collection of the Empire's legislation. The oath taken by Emperor Pedro I was worded in Latin and the oath taken by the officers representing the people was worded in Portuguese.\n\nAfter all the officers who were required to take the oath of allegiance had done so, Emperor Pedro I commanded the start of the exit procession, and departed from the cathedral.\n\nFor the exit procession, all participants of the cortège left the cathedral in the same order of their entrance. The emperor, from the moment he descended the throne steps to enter the procession, was flanked by knights who bore a canopy over his head, and he remained under that pall for the duration of the cortège. The emperor's departure from the church was followed by other ceremonies, that in the case of the coronation of Pedro I took place inside the Imperial Palace of the City, and in the case of the coronation of Pedro II took place in the temporary building connecting the church to the palace, and known as coronation balcony.\n\nThe first of those ceremonies was an act of homage to the newly crowned emperor by his ecclesiastical and lay subjects: with the emperor still crowned and sitting on a throne (in the throne room of the palace, in the case of Pedro I, or in a hall of the coronation Balcony, in the case of Pedro II), the clergy that took part in the coronation passed by, stopped facing the throne, bowed deeply, from the waist, and chanted, one by one, the Latin formula \"ad multos annos\", meaning \"for many years\".\n\nAfter this act of homage by the clergy, the homage of the lay subjects took place, with a different format that took the form of a \"baciamano\": Ministers, officers of state and nobles came and passed in front of the throne, performing their act of homage by ascending the steps to the throne, genuflecting and kissing the emperor's hand, before descending the steps of the throne. This act of homage by kissing hands as a sign of fidelity and obedience was known in Portuguese as \"beija-mão\".\n\nAfter those acts of homage were concluded, the emperors presented themselves to the public: Emperor Pedro II approached the front of the coronation Balcony, and Emperor Pedro I went to a palace balcony. With the emperor in full view of the people, wearing his robes, crown and sceptre, heralds sounded trumpets, drums beat, banners were unruffled, and a king of arms proclaimed that the emperor's consecration and coronation was accomplished. As part of this proclamation, the emperor's title was declared in full, and triple acclamations were prompted. After the acclamations, gun salutes followed, amidst other spontaneous popular acclamations.\n\nLeaving the balcony, the emperor then went to a hall where, seating on a throne, he received for a \"baciamano\" other civil servants, senators, members of the Chamber of Deputies and members of the imperial orders, ladies of distinction, etc., and other invited guests. For this reception of people who greeted the emperor after his balcony appearance, he was already divested of the crown, which was placed on a cushion next to the throne. Afterwards, the emperor received in the throne room of the imperial palace of the city delegations (from the city council of Rio de Janeiro, from the Senate, from the Chamber of Deputies, etc.) who came to present their loyal addresses commemorating the coronation.\n\nLater, having removed his robes of state, but wearing gala uniform, the emperor offered a banquet to his guests. Pedro II's coronation Banquet was served in the City Palace at 6 p.m. A dinner for all functionaries of the imperial household was served after the imperial banquet. In the case of the 1841 coronation, from 8 p.m. until 10 p.m., after the coronation banquet was concluded and Emperor Pedro II had retired to his private appartmens at the City Palace, ordinary members of the public who were decently dressed were allowed to visit the adjoining coronation balcony building and to view the Crown Jewels on display.\n\nFinally, the emperor and his family returned to the Imperial Palace of St. Christopher.\n"}
{"id": "3472028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3472028", "title": "David S. Cunningham III", "text": "David S. Cunningham III\n\nDavid S. Cunningham III is a Los Angeles Superior Court judge, appointed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, and a former president of the Los Angeles Board of Police Commissioners. Cunningham was appointed to the board in 2001 by L.A. Mayor James Hahn, and became its President in 2003. He was sworn in as judge in April 2009. He is the son of former L.A. Councilman David S. Cunningham, Jr.\n\nPreviously, Cunningham worked for the Justice Department's Civil Rights division, then moved to the private sector, specializing in redevelopment and eminent domain cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=704", "title": "Demographics of Angola", "text": "Demographics of Angola\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Angola, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\nAccording to 2014 census data, Angola had a population of 25,789,024 inhabitants in 2014.\nEthnically, there are three main groups, each speaking a Bantu language: the Ovimbundu who represent 37% of the population, the Ambundu with 25%, and the Bakongo 13%. Other numerically important groups include the closely interrelated Chokwe and Lunda, the Ganguela and Nyaneka-Khumbi (in both cases classification terms that stand for a variety of small groups), the Ovambo, the Herero, the Xindonga and scattered residual groups of San. In addition, mixed race (European and African) people amount to about 2%, with a small (1%) population of whites, mainly ethnically Portuguese.\n\nAs a former overseas territory of Portugal until 1975, Angola possesses a Portuguese population of over 200,000, a number that has been growing from 2000 onwards, because of Angola's growing demand for qualified human resources. Besides the Portuguese, significant numbers of people from other European and from diverse Latin American countries (especially Brazil) can be found. From the 2000s, many Chinese have settled and started up small businesses, while at least as many have come as workers for large enterprises (construction or other). Observers claim that the Chinese community in Angola might include as many as 300,000 persons at the end of 2010, but reliable statistics are not at this stage available. In 1974/75, over 25,000 Cuban soldiers arrived in Angola to help the MPLA forces at the beginning of the Angolan Civil War. Once this was over, a massive development cooperation in the field of health and education brought in numerous civil personnel from Cuba. However, only a very small percentage of all these people has remained in Angola, either for personal reasons (intermarriage) or as professionals (e.g., medical doctors).\n\nThe largest religious denomination is Catholicism, to which adheres about half the population. Roughly 26% are followers of traditional forms of Protestantism (Congregationals, Methodists, Baptista, Lutherans, Reformed), but over the last decades there has in addition been a growth of Pentecostal communities and African Initiated Churches. In 2006, one out of 221 people were Jehovah's Witnesses. Blacks from Mali, Nigeria and Senegal are mostly Sunnite Muslims, but do not make up more than 1 - 2% of the population. By now few Angolans retain African traditional religions following different ethnic faiths.\n\nAccording to the total population was in , compared to only 4 148 000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2010 was 46.6%, 50.9% was between 15 and 65 years of age, while 2.5% was 65 years or older\n\nStructure of the population (DHS 2011) (Males 19 707, Females 20 356 = 40 063) :\n\nRegistration of vital events is in Angola not complete. The Population Department of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\n\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted TFR) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n\nThe population is growing by 3.52% annually. There are 44.2 births and 9.2 deaths per 1,000 citizens. The net migration rate is 0.2 migrants per 1,000 citizens. The fertility rate of Angola is 6.16 children born per woman as of 2017. The infant mortality rate is 67.6 deaths for every 1,000 live births with 73.3 deaths for males and 61.8 deaths for females for every 1,000 live births. Life expectancy at birth is 60.2 years; 58.2 years for males and 62.3 years for females.\n\n\nAccording to the CIA World Factbook, 2% of adults (aged 15–49) are living with HIV/AIDS (as of 2009). The risk of contracting disease is very high. There are food and waterborne diseases, bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever; vectorborne diseases, malaria, African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness); respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis, and schistosomiasis, a water contact disease, as of 2005.\n\nRoughly 37% of Angolans are Ovimbundu, 25% are Ambundu, 13% are Bakongo, 2% are mestiço, 1-2% are white Africans, and people from other African ethnicities make up 22% of Angola's population.\n\nAngola is a majority Christian country. Official statistics don't exist, but it is estimated that over 80% belong to a Christian church or community. More than half are Catholic, the remaining ones comprising members of traditional Protestant churches as well as of Pentecostal communities. Only 1 - 2% are Muslims - generally immigrants from other African countries. Traditional indigenous religions are practized by a very small minority, generally in peripheral rural societies.\n\nLiteracy is quite low, with 71.1% of the population over the age of 15 able to read and write in Portuguese. 82% of males and 60.7% of women are literate as of 2015.\n\nPortuguese is the official language of Angola, but Bantu and other African languages are also widely spoken. In fact, Kikongo, Kimbundu, Umbundu, Tuchokwe, Nganguela, and Ukanyama have the official status of \"national languages\". The mastery of Portuguese is widespread; in the cities the overwhelming majority are either fluent in Portuguese or have at least a reasonable working knowledge of this language; an increasing minority are native Portuguese speakers and have a poor, if any, knowledge of an African language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26157344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26157344", "title": "Figure rating scale", "text": "Figure rating scale\n\nThe Figure Rating Scale (FRS) also known as the Stunkard Scale is a psychometric measurement developed in 1983 as a tool to determine body dissatisfaction in women and men. This scale has also been developed for measuring adolescent body image. This type of measurement was originally developed and validated to indicate the weight status of relatives of research subjects when other specific measurements or self-reported values were unavailable. This scale is a visible measure of how an individual perceives his or her own physical appearance. Each figure presents nine male and nine female schematic silhouettes, ranging from extreme thinness to extreme obesity. For research purposes, participants are asked to self-select the silhouette that best indicates his or her current body size and the silhouette that reflects his or her ideal body size (IBS). \n\nPast research has tested the reliability and validity of the figure rating scale. In order to test the strength and reliability of this measurement, researchers assigned six specific instructions to ask of their participants during figure selection. The instructions are as follows: (1) choose your ideal figure; (2) choose the figure that reflects how you think you look; (3) choose the figure that reflects how you feel most of the time; (4) choose the figure that you think is most preferred by men; (5) choose the figure that you think is most preferred by women; and (6) pick the opposite sex figure that you find most attractive. For validity analyses, the figure ratings can be transformed into the three following discrepancy measures: (1) feel minus ideal; (2) think minus ideal; and (3) feel minus think. The instructions developed for these measures may be interchanged depending on the specific topic of research or category of observation. Each research study may provide a different set of reliability and validity assessments for the figure rating scale dependent upon the goal and procedures of the study. \n\nThe figure rating scale has been used in several influential studies on body image, body satisfaction, and eating disorders. Research involving the figure rating scale has related the techniques of this measurement to identify how gender, media, race, and culture have an effect on how sensitive an individual is to his or her own physical appearance. Results may differ dependent upon the variables in question during observation. \n\nThe majority of research involving the figure rating scale focuses on observing body dissatisfaction. This research area also focuses primarily on the effects of gender on body dissatisfaction. In association with the figure rating scale, there has been more research conducted on female body image. Studies of body dissatisfaction have shown that women have a tendency to choose a smaller ideal body size than their current body size. This discrepancy between the two figure selections indicates body dissatisfaction. A high level of body dissatisfaction can lead to eating disorders or depression. Body dissatisfaction is also influenced by a variety of different factors. \n\nOther research that involves the figure rating scale indicates that the media is an important factor in body dissatisfaction. Media influences can have an effect on how individuals feel about their own body image. Body types presented in the media can also have an influence on the physical appearance that an individual desires to obtain. Research suggests that women are mostly influenced by media images that promote The Thin Ideal body type. Whereas, men are mostly influenced by media images that promote a more muscular build. These influences may cause participants to choose a silhouette on the figure rating scale that represents themselves as the opposite of the desired body type in the media. Additionally, when asked to point to the image of their desired body type, participants may choose a silhouette on the scale that is more similar to attractive body types that are presented in the media. \n\nThe figure rating scale has also been utilized in observations that involved race as a variable. There has been some comparative study that focuses on the body image perceptions among Caucasian, Asian, and African-American college women. Through this observation, African-American women chose larger ideal body sizes from the figures provided in the scale than the Caucasian and Asian women. Research in this area of body image suggests that each race or ethnicity has its own concept of an ideal body type. Each ideal body type is unique to that race or ethnicity. \n\nThe figure rating scale has also been translated into different languages in order for body image research to be conducted in other countries. For example, researchers have developed a Portuguese version of this scale for body image research in Brazil. This type of development also allows researchers to be able to compare findings of one culture to another. For example, one comparative study showed the silhouettes in the figure rating scale to college women in Korea and the United States. The women were asked to choose their ideal body type on the scale. After comparing the results, the Korean women were more dissatisfied with their bodies due to the pressures of thinness that exist in that particular culture. Another research study used the figure rating scale to observe the differences in actual body size and ideal body size among women born in Australia and Hong Kong in which the Australian women scored higher in body dissatisfaction. \n\nResults from figure observations have been applied to other scales in order to assess for body dissatisfaction and eating disorders. These scales provide more data that can assist researchers in determining the reasons for why an individual will select a particular silhouette on the figure rating scale. \n\nThe Eating Disorder Inventory (EDI) assess for various aspects of eating disorders. Through the addition of the subscales from this inventory, researchers are able to indicate how an individual, that may suffer or show symptoms of eating disorders, perceives their physical appearance. \n\nThe Bulimia (B) Scale has also been utilized in research involving the figure rating scale. This scale provides seven item measures that analyze the symptoms of bulimia such as binging or purging. \n\nThe Drive for Thinness (DT) is another scale that has been used in studies with the figure rating scale. This scale consists of seven items that measure the intensity of an individual’s desire to lose weight or fear of gaining weight. \n\nThe Body Dissatisfaction (BD) Scale consists of nine items and measures the extent to which individuals are satisfied with specific parts of the body. This scale has been used in conjunction with the figure rating scale in order to observe if an individual’s sensitivity to a particular body part results in the individual for choosing the silhouette that they do during observation. \n\nThe Body-Esteem Scale for Adolescents and Adults (BESAA) has also been used in conjunction with research that involves the figure rating scale. This scale consists of twenty-three statements that measure an individual’s general feelings about his or her physical appearance.\n\nIn order to properly use this type of measurement, it is important to understand how researchers have applied theoretical frameworks to analyze results gathered from the use of the figure rating scale. This scale is most associated with theories that are used in body image research. Researchers conducting observations in this area will also utilize theories from areas such as psychology and communications. These fields provide theories that allow researchers to understand some of the reasons why an individual will choose a certain silhouette to represent his or her own body type. \n\nThe social comparison theory has been associated with the figure rating scale. This theory suggests that individuals will compare their own physical appearance to the body images presented in the media. Researchers have used this theory in association with the figure rating scale to understand if individuals will change their figure choice after social comparing themselves to other individuals. People may compare themselves to peers, celebrities, or other individuals presented in the media. \n\nThe Self-discrepancy theory has also been used in research along with the figure rating scale. This theory has generally been applied to body image research to understand the three domains of the self: the actual self, the ideal self, and the ought self. By asking participants to choose images on the scale, the individual may choose a separate silhouette for each domain of the self. These findings can be observed to understand the differences between an individual’s perception of his or her actual body type and ideal body type. \n\nSince the scale’s development in 1983, there have been other body image measurements that have been created for research in this area. This action is partly due to the scale being outdated. Although the original development of the figure rating scale has been utilized in a substantial amount of research, there are some limitations to this measurement. The line-drawn silhouettes provided in the scale may not provide a clear presentation of the average human body. As the silhouettes in the scale shift from very thin to very obese, the figures gain more in the middle of the body. While this type of body image may be representative of some individuals, there is a wide range of possible body types that are not represented in the original scale. Some individuals may have broader shoulders or wider hips than in the images provided in the scale; therefore, the participants may have a more difficult time choosing the appropriate figure to represent their physical appearance. Research has also translated this scale into photographic images with real people. These three-dimensional images are able to depict a more realistic presentation of different body types. \n"}
{"id": "250548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250548", "title": "Free love", "text": "Free love\n\nFree love is a social movement that accepts all forms of love. The Free Love movement's initial goal was to separate the state from sexual matters such as marriage, birth control, and adultery. It claimed that such issues were the concern of the people involved, and no one else.\n\nMuch of the free love tradition reflects a liberal philosophy that seeks freedom from state regulation and church interference in personal relationships. According to this concept, the free unions of adults are legitimate relations which should be respected by all third parties whether they are emotional or sexual relations. In addition, some free love writing has argued that both men and women have the right to sexual pleasure without social or legal restraints. In the Victorian era, this was a radical notion. Later, a new theme developed, linking free love with radical social change, and depicting it as a harbinger of a new anti-authoritarian, anti-repressive sensibility.\n\nAccording to today's stereotype, earlier middle-class Americans wanted the home to be a place of stability in an uncertain world. To this mentality are attributed strongly-defined gender roles, which led to a minority reaction in the form of the free-love movement.\n\nWhile the phrase \"free love\" is often associated with promiscuity in the popular imagination, especially in reference to the counterculture of the 1960s and 1970s, historically the free-love movement has not advocated multiple-sexual partners or short-term sexual relationships. Rather, it has argued that sexual relations that are freely entered into should not be regulated by law.\n\nThe term \"sex radical\" is also used interchangeably with the term \"free lover\", and was the preferred term by advocates because of the negative connotations of \"free love\". By whatever name, advocates had two strong beliefs: opposition to the idea of forced sexual activity in a relationship and advocacy for a woman to use her body in any way that she pleases.\n\nLaws of particular concern to free love movements have included those that prevent an unmarried couple from living together, and those that regulate :adultery and :divorce, as well as :age of consent, :birth control, :homosexuality, :abortion, and sometimes :prostitution; although not all free-love advocates agree on these issues. The abrogation of individual rights in marriage is also a concern—for example, some jurisdictions do not recognize spousal rape or treat it less seriously than non-spousal rape. Free-love movements since the 19th century have also defended the right to publicly discuss sexuality and have battled obscenity laws.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, some free-love proponents extended the critique of marriage to argue that marriage as a social institution encourages emotional possessiveness and psychological enslavement.\n\nThe history of free love is entwined with the history of feminism. From the late 18th century, leading feminists, such as Mary Wollstonecraft, have challenged the institution of marriage, and many have advocated its abolition.\n\nAccording to feminist critique, a married woman was solely a wife and mother, denying her the opportunity to pursue other occupations; sometimes this was legislated, as with bans on married women and mothers being employed as teachers. In 1855, free love advocate Mary Gove Nichols (1810–1884) described marriage as the \"annihilation of woman,\" explaining that women were considered to be men's property in law and public sentiment, making it possible for tyrannical men to deprive their wives of all freedom. For example, the law often allowed a husband to beat his wife. Free-love advocates argued that many children were born into unloving marriages out of compulsion, but should instead be the result of choice and affection—yet children born out of wedlock did not have the same rights as children with married parents.\n\nIn 1857, in the \"Social Revolutionist\", Minerva Putnam complained that \"in the discussion of free love, no woman has attempted to give her views on the subject\" and challenged every woman reader to \"rise in the dignity of her nature and declare herself free.\"\n\nIn the 19th century at least six books endorsed the concept of free love, all of which were written by men. However of the four major free-love periodicals following the U. S. civil war, half had female editors. Mary Gove Nichols was the leading-female advocate and the woman most looked up to in the free-love movement. Her autobiography became the first argument against marriage written from a woman's point of view.\n\nTo proponents of free love, the act of sex was not just about reproduction. Access to birth control was considered a means to women's independence, and leading birth-control activists also embraced free love. Sexual radicals remained focused on their attempts to uphold a woman's right to control her body and to freely discuss issues such as contraception, marital-sex abuse (emotional and physical), and sexual education. These people believed that by talking about female sexuality, they would help empower women. To help achieve this goal, such radical thinkers relied on the written word, books, pamphlets, and periodicals, and by these means the movement was sustained for over fifty years, spreading the message of free love all over the United States.\n\nA number of utopian social movements throughout history have shared a vision of free love. The all-male Essenes, who lived in the Middle East from the 1st century BC to the 1st century AD apparently shunned sex, marriage, and slavery. They also renounced wealth, lived communally, and were pacifist vegetarians. An Early Christian sect known as the Adamites existed in North Africa in the 2nd, 3rd and 4th centuries and rejected marriage. They practiced nudism and believed themselves to be without original sin.\n\nIn the 6th century, adherents of Mazdakism in pre-Muslim Persia apparently supported a kind of free love in the place of marriage, and like many other free-love movements, also favored vegetarianism, pacificism, and communalism. Some writers have posited a conceptual link between the rejection of private property and the rejection of marriage as a form of ownership. One folk story from the period that contains a mention of a free-love (and nudist) community under the sea is \"The Tale of Abdullah the Fisherman and Abdullah the Merman\" from \"The Book of One Thousand and One Nights\" (c. 8th century).\n\nKarl Kautsky, writing in 1895, noted that a number of \"communistic\" movements throughout the Middle Ages also rejected marriage. Typical of such movements, the Cathars of 10th to 14th century Western Europe freed followers from all moral prohibition and religious obligation, but respected those who lived simply, avoided the taking of human or animal life, and were celibate. Women had an uncommon equality and autonomy, even as religious leaders. The Cathars and similar groups (the Waldenses, Apostle brothers, Beghards and Beguines, Lollards, and Hussites) were branded as heretics by the Roman Catholic Church and suppressed. Other movements shared their critique of marriage but advocated free sexual relations rather than celibacy, such as the Brethren of the Free Spirit, Taborites, and Picards.\n\nThe challenges to traditional morality and religion brought by the Age of Enlightenment and the emancipatory politics of the French Revolution created an environment where ideas such as free love could flourish. A group of radical intellectuals in England (sometimes known as the English Jacobins), who supported the French Revolution developed early ideas about feminism and free love.\n\nNotable among them was the Romantic poet William Blake, who explicitly compared the sexual oppression of marriage to slavery in works such as \"Visions of the Daughters of Albion\" (1793). Blake was critical of the marriage laws of his day, and generally railed against traditional Christian notions of chastity as a virtue. At a time of tremendous strain in his marriage, in part due to Catherine's apparent inability to bear children, he directly advocated bringing a second wife into the house. His poetry suggests that external demands for marital fidelity reduce love to mere duty rather than authentic affection, and decries jealousy and egotism as a motive for marriage laws. Poems such as \"Why should I be bound to thee, O my lovely Myrtle-tree?\" and \"Earth's Answer\" seem to advocate multiple sexual partners. In his poem \"London\" he speaks of \"the Marriage-Hearse\" plagued by \"the youthful Harlot's curse\", the result alternately of false Prudence and/or Harlotry. \"Visions of the Daughters of Albion\" is widely (though not universally) read as a tribute to free love since the relationship between Bromion and Oothoon is held together only by laws and not by love. For Blake, law and love are opposed, and he castigates the \"frozen marriage-bed\". In \"Visions\", Blake writes:\n\nBlake believed that humans were \"fallen\", and that a major impediment to a free love society was corrupt human nature, not merely the intolerance of society and the jealousy of men, but the inauthentic hypocritical nature of human communication. He also seems to have thought that marriage should afford the joy of love, but that in reality it often does not, as a couple's knowledge of being chained often diminishes their joy.\nAnother member of Blake's circle was the pioneering English feminist Mary Wollstonecraft and her husband and early anarchist, William Godwin. The ideals of free love found their champion in one of the earliest feminists. In her writings, Wollstonecraft challenged the institution of marriage, and advocated its abolition. Her novels criticized the social construction of marriage and its effects on women. In her first novel, \"Mary: A Fiction\" written in 1788, the heroine is forced into a loveless marriage for economic reasons. She finds love in relationships with another man and a woman. The novel, \"Maria: or, The Wrongs of Woman\", never finished but published in 1798, revolves around the story of a woman imprisoned in an asylum by her husband; Maria finds fulfilment outside of marriage, in an affair with a fellow inmate. Mary makes it clear that \"women had strong sexual desires and that it was degrading and immoral to pretend otherwise.\"\n\nWollstonecraft felt that women should not give up freedom and control of their sexuality, and thus didn't marry her partner, Gilbert Imlay, despite the two conceiving and having a child together in the midst of the Terror of the French Revolution. Though the relationship ended badly, due in part to the discovery of Imlay's infidelity, and not least because Imlay abandoned her for good, Wollstonecraft's belief in free love survived. She later developed a relationship with Godwin, who shared her free love ideals, and published on the subject throughout his life. However, the two did decide to marry, just days before her death due to complications at parturition.\n\nIn an act understood to support free love, their child, Mary, took up with the then still-married English romantic poet Percy Bysshe Shelley at a young age. Shelley wrote in defence of free love (and vegetarianism) in the prose notes of \"Queen Mab\" (1813), in his essay \"On Love\" (c. 1815). and in the poem \"Epipsychidion\" (1821):\n\nSharing the free-love ideals of the earlier social movements—as well as their feminism, pacifism, and simple communal life—were the utopian socialist communities of early-nineteenth-century France and Britain, associated with writers and thinkers such as Henri de Saint-Simon and Charles Fourier in France, and Robert Owen in England. Fourier, who coined the term \"feminism,\" argued that true freedom could only occur without masters, without the ethos of work, and without suppressing passions: the suppression of passions is not only destructive to the individual, but to society as a whole. He argued that all sexual expressions should be enjoyed as long as people are not abused, and that \"affirming one's difference\" can actually enhance social integration.\n\nRobert Owen argued that marriage formed one of an \"awful trinity\" of oppressors to mankind, as well as religion and private property, and his son Robert Dale was a leading proponent of free divorce. The Saint-Simonian feminist Pauline Roland took a free-love stance against marriage, having four children in the 1830s, all of whom bore her name.\n\nThe German composer Richard Wagner advocated something like free love in several of his works, and began a family with Cosima Liszt, then still married to the conductor Hans von Bülow. Though apparently scandalous at the time, such liaisons seemed the actions of admired artists who were following the dictates of their own wills, rather than those of social convention, and in this way they were in step with their era's liberal philosophers of the cult of passion, such as Fourier, and their actual or eventual openness can be understood to be a prelude to the freer ways of the twentieth century. Friedrich Nietzsche spoke occasionally in favor of something like free love, but when he proposed marriage to that famous practitioner of it, Lou Andreas-Salome, she berated him for being inconsistent with his philosophy of the free and supramoral Superman, a criticism that Nietzsche seems to have taken seriously, or to have at least been stung by. The relationship between composer Frédéric Chopin and writer George Sand can be understood as exemplifying free love in a number of ways. Behavior of this kind by figures in the public eye did much to erode the credibility of conventionalism in relationships, especially when such conventionalism brought actual unhappiness to its practitioners.\n\nThe eminent sociologist Herbert Spencer argued in his \"Principles of Sociology\" for the implementation of free divorce. Claiming that marriage consists of two components, \"union by law\" and \"union by affection\", he argued that with the loss of the latter union, legal union should lose all meaning and dissolve automatically, without the legal requirement for a divorce. Free love particularly stressed women's rights since most sexual laws discriminated against women: for example, marriage laws and anti-birth control measures.\n\nFree love began to coalesce into a movement in the mid to late 19th century. The term was coined by the Christian socialist writer John Humphrey Noyes, although he preferred to use the term 'complex marriage'. Noyes founded the Oneida Community in 1848, a utopian community that \"[rejected] conventional marriage both as a form of legalism from which Christians should be free and as a selfish institution in which men exerted rights of ownership over women\". He found scriptural justification: \"In the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like the angels in heaven\" (Matt. 22:30). Noyes also supported eugenics; and only certain people (including Noyes himself) were allowed to become parents. Another movement was established in Berlin Heights, Ohio.\n\nIn 1852, a writer named Marx Edgeworth Lazarus published a tract entitled \"Love vs. Marriage pt. 1,\" in which he portrayed marriage as \"incompatible with social harmony and the root cause of mental and physical impairments.\" Lazarus intertwined his writings with his religious teachings, a factor that made the Christian community more tolerable to the free love idea. Elements of the free-love movement also had links to abolitionist movements, drawing parallels between slavery and \"sexual slavery\" (marriage), and forming alliances with black activists.\n\nAmerican feminist Victoria Woodhull (1838–1927), the first woman to run for presidency in the U.S. in 1872, was also called \"the high priestess of free love\". In 1871, Woodhull wrote: \"Yes, I am a Free Lover. I have an inalienable, constitutional and natural right to love whom I may, to love as long or as short a period as I can; to change that love every day if I please, and with that right neither you nor any law you can frame have any right to interfere\".\n\nThe women's movement, free love and Spiritualism were three strongly linked movements at the time, and Woodhull was also a spiritualist leader. Like Noyes, she also supported eugenics. Fellow social reformer and educator Mary Gove Nichols was happily married (to her second husband), and together they published a newspaper and wrote medical books and articles, a novel, and a treatise on marriage, in which they argued the case for free love. Both Woodhull and Nichols eventually repudiated free love.\n\nPublications of the movement in the second half of the 19th century included Nichols' Monthly, \"The Social Revolutionist\", \"Woodhull & Claflin's Weekly\" (ed. Victoria Woodhull and her sister Tennessee Claflin), \"The Word\" (ed. Ezra Heywood), \"Lucifer, the Light-Bearer\" (ed. Moses Harman) and the German-language Detroit newspaper \"Der Arme Teufel\" (ed. Robert Reitzel). Organisations included the New England Free Love League, founded with the assistance of American libertarian Benjamin Tucker as a spin-off from the New England Labor Reform League (NELRL). A minority of freethinkers also supported free love.\n\nThe most radical free love journal was \"The Social Revolutionist\", published in the 1856–1857, by John Patterson. The first volume consisted of twenty writers, of which only one was a woman.\n\nSex radicals were not alone in their fight against marriage ideals. Some other nineteenth-century Americans saw this social institution as flawed, but hesitated to abolish it. Groups such as the Shakers, the Oneida Community, and the Latter-day Saints were wary of the social notion of marriage. These organizations and sex radicals believed that true equality would never exist between the sexes as long as the church and the state continued to work together, worsening the problem of subordination of wives to their husbands.\n\nFree-love movements continued into the early 20th century in bohemian circles in New York's Greenwich Village. A group of Villagers lived free-love ideals and promoted them in the political journal \"The Masses\" and its sister publication \"The Little Review,\" a literary journal. Incorporating influences from the writings of the English thinkers and activists Edward Carpenter and Havelock Ellis, women such as Emma Goldman campaigned for a range of sexual freedoms, including homosexuality and access to contraception. Other notable figures among the Greenwich-Village scene who have been associated with free love include Edna St. Vincent Millay, Max Eastman, Crystal Eastman, Floyd Dell, Mabel Dodge Luhan, Ida Rauh, Hutchins Hapgood, Neith Boyce; a certain extreme was reached by self-proclaimed Satanist Anton LaVey. Dorothy Day also wrote passionately in defense of free love, women's rights, and contraception—but later, after converting to Catholicism, she criticized the sexual revolution of the sixties.\n\nThe development of the idea of free love in the United States was also significantly impacted by the publisher of \"Playboy\" magazine, Hugh Hefner, whose activities and persona over more than a half century popularized the idea of free love to the general public.\n\nFree love was a central tenet of the philosophy of the Fellowship of the New Life, founded in 1883, by the Scottish intellectual Thomas Davidson. Fellowship members included many illustrious intellectuals of the day, who went on to radically challenge accepted Victorian notions of morality and sexuality, including poets Edward Carpenter and John Davidson, animal rights activist Henry Stephens Salt, sexologist Havelock Ellis, feminists Edith Lees, Emmeline Pankhurst and Annie Besant and writers H. G. Wells, Bernard Shaw, Bertrand Russell and Olive Schreiner. Its objective was \"The cultivation of a perfect character in each and all,\" and believed in the transformation of society through setting an example of clean simplified living for others to follow. Many of the Fellowship's members advocated pacifism, vegetarianism and simple living.\n\nEdward Carpenter was the first activist for the rights of homosexuals. He became interested in progressive education, especially providing information to young people on the topic of sexual education. For Carpenter, sexual education meant forwarding a clear analysis of the ways in which sex and gender were used to oppress women, contained in Carpenter's radical work \"Love's Coming-of-Age\". In it he argued that a just and equal society must promote the sexual and economic freedom of women. The main crux of his analysis centred on the negative effects of the institution of marriage. He regarded marriage in England as both enforced celibacy and a form of prostitution.\nHe did not believe women would truly be free until a socialist society was established. In contrast to many of his contemporaries, however, this led him to conclude that all oppressed workers should support women's emancipation, rather than to subordinate women's rights to male worker's rights. He remarked, \"... there is no solution except the freedom of woman - which means, of course, the freedom of the masses of the people, men and women, and the ceasing altogether of economic slavery. There is no solution which will not include the redemption of the terms free women and free love to their true and rightful significance. Let every woman whose heart bleeds for the sufferings of her sex, hasten to declare herself and to constitute herself, as far as she possibly can, a free woman.\"\n\nThe best-known British advocate of free love was the philosopher Bertrand Russell, later Third Earl Russell, who said that he did not believe he really knew a woman until he had made love with her. Russell consistently addressed aspects of free love throughout his voluminous writings, and was not personally content with conventional Monogamy until extreme old age. His most famous work on the subject was \"Marriage and Morals\", published in 1929. The book heavily criticizes the Victorian notions of morality regarding sex and marriage. Russell argued that the laws and ideas about sex of his time were a potpourri from various sources, which were no longer valid with the advent of contraception, as the sexual acts are now separated from the conception. He argued that family is most important for the welfare of children, and as such, a man and a woman should be considered bound only after her first pregnancy.\n\"Marriage and Morals\" prompted vigorous protests and denunciations against Russell shortly after the book's publication. A decade later, the book cost him his professorial appointment at the City College of New York due to a court judgment that his opinions made him \"morally unfit\" to teach. Contrary to what many people believed, Russell did not advocate an extreme libertine position. Instead, he felt that sex, although a natural impulse like hunger or thirst, involves more than that, because no one is \"satisfied by the bare sexual act\". He argued that abstinence enhances the pleasure of sex, which is better when it \"has a large psychical element than when it is purely physical\".\n\nRussell noted that for a marriage to work requires that there \"be a feeling of complete equality on both sides; there must be no interference with mutual freedom; there must be the most complete physical and mental intimacy; and there must be a certain similarity in regard to standards of value\". He argued that it was, in general, impossible to sustain this mutual feeling for an indefinite length of time, and that the only option in such a case was to provide for either the easy availability of divorce, or the social sanction of extra-marital sex.\n\nRussell was also a very early advocate of repealing sodomy laws.\n\nInterest in free love spread to Australia in the late 19th century. The English-born anarchist, Chummy Fleming founded the Melbourne Anarchist Club in 1886, which led a debate on the topic of free love, and a couple of years later released an anonymous pamphlet on the subject: 'Free Love—Explained and Defended' (possibly written by David Andrade or Chummy Fleming). The view of the Anarchist Club was formed in part as a reaction to the infamous Whitechapel murders by the notorious Jack the Ripper; his atrocities were at the time popularly understood by some—at least, by anarchists—to be a violation of the freedom of certain extreme classes of \"working women,\" but by extension of all women.\n\nNewcastle libertarian Alice Winspear, the wife of pioneer socialist William Robert Winspear, wrote: \"Let us have freedom—freedom for both man and woman—freedom to earn our bread in whatever vocation is best suited to us, and freedom to love where we like, and to live only with those whom we love, and by whom we are loved in return.\" A couple of decades later, the Melbourne anarchist feminist poet Lesbia Harford also championed free love.\n\nIn the bohemian districts of Montmartre and Montparnasse, many were determined to shock the \"bourgeois\" sensibilities of the society they grew up in; many, such as the anarchist Benoît Broutchoux, favored free love. At the same time, the cross-dressing radical activist Madeleine Pelletier practised celibacy, distributed birth-control devices and information, and performed abortions.\n\nAn important propagandist of free love was individualist anarchist Emile Armand. He advocated naturism and polyamory in what he termed \"la camaraderie amoureuse\". He wrote many propagandist articles on this subject such as \"De la liberté sexuelle\" (1907) where he advocated not only a vague free love but also multiple partners, which he called \"plural love\". In the individualist anarchist journal \"L'en dehors\" he and others continued in this way. Armand seized this opportunity to outline his theses supporting revolutionary sexualism and camaraderie amoureuse that differed from the traditional views of the partisans of free love in several respects.\n\nLater Armand submitted that from an individualist perspective nothing was reprehensible about making \"love\", even if one did not have very strong feelings for one's partner. \"The camaraderie amoureuse thesis\", he explained, \"entails a free contract of association (that may be annulled without notice, following prior agreement) reached between anarchist individualists of different genders, adhering to the necessary standards of sexual hygiene, with a view toward protecting the other parties to the contract from certain risks of the amorous experience, such as rejection, rupture, exclusivism, possessiveness, unicity, coquetry, whims, indifference, flirtatiousness, disregard for others, and prostitution.\" He also published \"Le Combat contre la jalousie et le sexualisme révolutionnaire\" (1926), followed over the years by \"Ce que nous entendons par liberté de l'amour\" (1928), \"La Camaraderie amoureuse ou \"chiennerie sexuelle\"\" (1930), and, finally, \"La Révolution sexuelle et la camaraderie amoureuse\" (1934), a book of nearly 350 pages comprising most of his writings on sexuality. In a text from 1937, he mentioned among the individualist objectives the practice of forming voluntary associations for purely sexual purposes of heterosexual, homosexual, or bisexual nature or of a combination thereof.\n\nHe also supported the right of individuals to change sex and stated his willingness to rehabilitate forbidden pleasures, non-conformist caresses (he was personally inclined toward voyeurism), as well as sodomy. This led him to allocate more and more space to what he called \"the sexual non-conformists\", while excluding physical violence. His militancy also included translating texts from people such as Alexandra Kollontai and Wilhelm Reich and establishments of free love associations which tried to put into practice \"la camaraderie amoureuse\" through actual sexual experiences.\n\nFree love advocacy groups active during this time included the \"Association d'Études sexologiques\" and the \"Ligue mondiale pour la Réforme sexuelle sur une base scientifique\".\n\nIn Germany, from 1891 to 1919, the \"Verband Fortschrittlicher Frauenvereine\" (League of Progressive Women's Associations) called for a boycott of marriage and for the enjoyment of sexuality. Founded by Lily Braun and Minna Cauer, the league also aimed to organise prostitutes into labor unions, taught contraception, and supported the right to abortion and the abolition of criminal penalties against homosexuality, as well as running child-care programs for single mothers. In 1897, teacher and writer Emma Trosse published a brochure titled \"Ist freie Liebe Sittenlosigkeit?\" (\"Is free love immoral?\").\n\nThe worldwide homosexual emancipation movement also began in Germany in the late 19th century, and many of the thinkers whose work inspired sexual liberation in the 20th century were also from the German-speaking world, such as Sigmund Freud, Otto Gross, Herbert Marcuse, Wilhelm Reich, and Max Stirner's follower and biographer, John Henry Mackay.\n\nAfter the October Revolution in Russia, Alexandra Kollontai became the most prominent woman in the Soviet administration. Kollontai was also a champion of free love. However, Clara Zetkin recorded that Lenin opposed free love as \"completely un-Marxist, and moreover, anti-social\". Zetkin also recounted Lenin's denunciation of plans to organise Hamburg's women prostitutes into a \"special revolutionary militant section\": he saw this as \"corrupt and degenerate.\"\n\nDespite the traditional marital lives of Lenin and most Bolsheviks, they believed that sexual relations were outside the jurisdiction of the state. The Soviet government abolished centuries-old Czarist regulations on personal life, which had prohibited homosexuality and made it difficult for women to obtain divorce permits or to live singly. However, by the end of the 1920s, Stalin had taken over the Communist Party and begun to implement socially conservative policies. Homosexuality was classified as a mental disorder, and free love was further demonized.\n\nFrom the late 1940s to the 1960s, the bohemian free-love tradition of Greenwich Village in America was carried on by the beat generation, although differing with their predecessors by being an apparently male-dominated movement. The Beats also produced the first appearance of male homosexual champions of free love in the U.S., with writers such as Allen Ginsberg and William S. Burroughs. Like some of those before, the beats challenged a range of social conventions, and they found inspiration in such aspects of black culture as jazz music. The Beat movement led on the West Coast to the activities of such groups as the Merry Pranksters (led, according to Grateful Dead historian Dennis McNally, not by novelist Ken Kesey, but by hipster and driver Neal Cassady) and the entire San Francisco pop music scene, in which the implications of sexual bohemianism were advanced in a variety of ways by the hippies. The study of sexology continued to gain prominence throughout the era, with the work of researchers Alfred Kinsey and Masters and Johnson supporting challenges to traditional values regarding sex and marriage.\n\nWith the Summer of Love in 1967, the eccentricities of this group became a nationally recognized movement. Despite the developing sexual revolution and the influence of the Beatniks had in this new counterculture social rebellion, it has been acknowledged that the New Left movement was arguably the most prominent advocate of free love during the late 1960s. Many among the counterculture youth sided with New Left arguments that marriage was a symbol of the traditional capitalist culture which supported war. \"Make Love Not War,\" a slogan of antiquity renewed by John Lennon and Yoko Ono among others, became a popular slogan in the counterculture movement which denounced both war and capitalism. Images from the pro-socialist May 1968 uprising in France, which occurred as the anti-war protests were escalating throughout the United States, would provide a significant source of morale to the New Left cause as well.\n\nSecond wave feminism continued to question traditional Judeo-Christian teaching on sexuality, while groups like Moral Majority and the Christian right opposed change, after \"Roe v Wade\" greatly increased access to abortion in the United States.\n\nAfter the Stonewall riots, gay rights became an increasingly prominent issue, but by the early 21st century gay activists had shifted their focus to same-sex marriage rather than free love. Divorce and blended families became more common, and young couples increasingly chose to live together in common law marriages or domestic partnerships rather than marrying in church or formalizing or legalizing marriage through the court system.\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "20570543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20570543", "title": "Gamo people", "text": "Gamo people\n\nGamo is the name of the Ethiopian ethnic group who speak the Gamo language. The name \"Gamo\" means a lion, which refers to their legacy; along with the Goffa, they gave their names to the former Gamo-Gofa province of Ethiopia. The 2007 Ethiopian national census reported that 1,107,163 people (or 1.5% of the population) identified themselves as Gamos, of whom 141,233 were urban inhabitants. The Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region is home to 94.5% of this people.\n\nThe Gamo contribute much of the fruit including banana, mango, apple and papaya, to the capital city of Ethiopia, Addis Ababa.\n\n"}
{"id": "37299139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37299139", "title": "Ghayavi language", "text": "Ghayavi language\n\nGhayavi, or Boianaki, is an Austronesian language of the eastern Papua New Guinean mainland.\n\n"}
{"id": "34134705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34134705", "title": "Gqunukhwebe", "text": "Gqunukhwebe\n\nPre-Colonial Gonaqua (Gqunukhwebe)\nSuarce : Travels into the interior parts of Africa by the way of the Cape of Good Hope, in the years 1780, 8l, 82, 83, 84, and 85 by Le Vaillant, Francios\nAma Gqunukhwebe is a sub-group of the Xhosa nation that was created under the reign of King Tshiwo (1670–1702) of amaXhosa who was a grandfather to Gcaleka and Rharhabe. This consisted mostly of the Khoi chiefdoms (Gonaqua, Hoengeniqua, Inqua and others) that were overrun by western expedition pioneers among Xhosa people and incorporated into the Xhosa nation.\n\nKhwane kaLungane, a trusted counselor and a great warrior of King Tshiwo of amaXhosa, headed this new chiefdom of amaGqunukhwebe. This was the start of the \"Khwane dynasty\", the son of Lungane ka-Debe. He was succeeded by his descendants as follows: Bane ka-Khwane, Tshaka ka-Bane, Chungwa ka-Tshaka, and then Phatho ka-Chungwa.\n\nTheir land spanned from Buffalo (Qonce) to Zwaartkops (Qhagqiwa) rivers, but most of it was lost as a result of the Frontier Wars and was mostly given to colony settlers (west of the Fish River) and amaMfengu (between the Fish and Keiskamma rivers) by the colonial government.\n\nAfter many years of intermarriage, there were no physical differences in these people in terms of their Khoi and Xhosa origins. However, the Gqunukhwebe chiefdom developed new subdivisions. This happened through Chungwa's sons Phatho, or Pato, and Kama that he had with his senior wife, Malishe (daughter of Nqeno of amaMbali chiefdom). They respectively settled along the coast and inland. According to the diary notes of a certain Mr. Hampton who was the Cape Colony surveyor at the time, the main contributor to this rift was the younger brother's (i.e. Kama) conversion to Christianity.\n\nSome writers consider him the one of the first people of royal blood line to convert to Christianity, which contradicted his older bother's wishes that he must take a second wife. Kama later moved away from this tribal pressure with some followers and eventually settled in the area that is today known as Middledrift.\n\nAfter the terrible \"Cattle-killing\" and many frontier wars with the colony, Phatho and his followers were weakened and the Cape Colony wrongfully recognised Kama as the Paramount Chief of all amaGqunukhwebe people, also probably due to Kama's religion conversion which made him house friends with the white missionaries.\n\nToday the two amaGqunukhwebe chiefdoms are controlled from two centres, the coastal lineage with headquarters in Tsholomnqa (the \"Phatho house\") and inland in Middledrift (the \"Kama house\"). However, the ordinary people of the tribe still understand that the senior house is from the Phato lineage.\n\nA longtime councilor of Phatho royal family, the late Frank Mathanga from the Tshawe-clan has done excellent work of documenting the successions in the Phatho house.\n\nChief Phatho married Noxina daughter of Toyise from the Gasela-clan as senior wife and had a son named \"Dilima\". Chief Dilima's senior wife was the daughter of Ndileka (a Chief of imiDushane kaNdlambe tribe) and had a son called Namba.\nAfter succeeding his father, Chief Dilima ka-Phatho picked up his father's spear and took the battle to the colonists. He was later arrested and imprisoned in Robben Island.\n\nChief Namba ka-Dilima had four sons Khangelanzima, Sofutha, Mkhanya, and Dyosini. Both Khangelanzima and Sofuthe died as young men before they could get married. The next in line to the throne of amaGqunukhwebe was Mkhanya, he had a son called Silimela who was taken away by his mother after she had a strong quarrel with Chief Mkhanya. She never returned their boy and the Chief never bothered to search for his son. Silimela also never bothered to return to his biological father when he came of age.\n\nWhen Chief Mkhanya ka-Namba died, his younger brother and right-hand man Dyosini ka-Namba succeeded him. He had two sons, Rhamnwana and Nompempe through his wife Nontozimbi Rhatsha of the Giqwa-clan.\n\nTheir elder son Rhamncwana ka-Dyosini was inaugurated as Chief of amaGqunukhwebe aseLwandle in 1975 under the Ciskei Bantu Tribal Authority led by L.L.W. Sebe.\nDuring this time his first wife Nokhazi of amaBamba clan had died but already had children together and their eldest son and heir to throne was Ntlanganiso.\n\nChief Rhamncwana remarried to Nondenze (Nongenile), daughter of Mbutiyakhe ka-Twani from the Qhinebe-clan, and they had two sons Xolani and Gcobani. Nongenile is still acting regent.\n\nThe heir to the throne, Ntlanganiso ka Rhamncwana Phatho married Nondumiso (daughter of Petros Namba of the Tshawe clan from Twecu village) in 1970, and they had a son called Zolani is 1973. This marriage collapsed in 1976 and their son Zolani went to the initiation school at King Xolilizwe's (Gcaleka-Xhosa) place. Zolani returned to his ancestral home in 2008 from Cape Town.\n\nNtlanganiso then remarried in 1982 to Ntomboxolo (daughter of Mxolisi Sandile the King of Rharhabe-Xhosa) and they had two daughters, Nolwandle and Nomonde.\n\nAccording to tradition Zolani ka-Ntlanganiso Phatho is expected to be the next in line to ascend the throne when he's of age.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063265", "title": "Horace DeVauhan", "text": "Horace DeVauhan\n\nHorace DeVaughan (died April 8, 1927), of Birmingham, Alabama, was the first prison inmate in Alabama to be executed by the Alabama electric chair, nicknamed \"Yellow Mama\" because it was painted with bright yellow highway paint. DeVaughan was electrocuted on April 8, 1927.\n\nThe murder case for which DeVaughan was executed was solved by Birmingham Police Detective Paul Cole, who traced the shells found at the scene, which had a unique marking from a defective shotgun. After he was arrested, DeVaughan confessed to the murders and was sentenced to death.\nDeVaughan was put to death at Kilby Prison in an electric chair built for the purpose earlier that year. He prayed to Jesus for hours beforehand, and accepted no food, drink or cigarettes on the night of the execution. In his final statement he expressed that he had been forgiven and had no hard feelings toward anyone, and asked for someone to tell his mother goodbye and that his soul was saved.\nDeVaughan underwent three 2,000 volt discharges between 12:31 and 12:42 AM. At the first 40-second jolt his body surged forward, a thin gray smoke flowed from under the electrode over his head, and the odor of burning flesh was apparent. After the second discharge, flames were seen on his leg, but he was still alive. After the third jolt, he was pronounced dead. Twenty were present as witnesses, included Moore's brother, George, who traveled from Coffeyville, Kansas and claimed a piece of DaVaughn's belt as a souvenir of his visit.\n\n"}
{"id": "30923873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30923873", "title": "Ibibio language", "text": "Ibibio language\n\nIbibio (proper) is the native language of the Ibibio people of Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria, belonging to the Ibibio-Efik dialect cluster of the Cross River languages. The name \"Ibibio\" is sometimes used for the entire dialect cluster. In pre-colonial times, it was written with Nsibidi ideograms, similar to Igbo, Efik, Anaang, and Ejagham. Ibibio has also had influences on Afro-American diasporic languages such as AAVE words like buckra, which comes from the Ibibio word mbakara, and in the Afro-Cuban tradition of abakua.\n\n\nIntervocalic plosives are lenited:\n\n\nBetween consonants, have allophones that are transcribed , respectively. At least in case of , the realization is probably somewhat different (e.g. close-mid ), because the default IPA values of the symbols are very similar to the normal realizations of the Ibibio vowels . Similarly, may actually be near-close , rather than close .\n\nIn some dialects (e.g. Ibiono), occur as phonemes distinct from .\n\nIbibio has two tones: high and low. As in English language, a word can be used to mean two or more different things based on the tone ascribed to it.\n\n"}
{"id": "1429661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1429661", "title": "Khmer people", "text": "Khmer people\n\nKhmer people (; , , ) are a Southeast Asian ethnic group native to Cambodia, accounting for 90% of the country's 15.9 million people. They speak the Khmer language, which is part of the larger Austroasiatic language family found in parts of Southeast Asia (including Vietnam), parts of central, eastern, and north eastern India, parts of Bangladesh in South Asia, in parts of Southern China and numerous islands in the Indian Ocean.\n\nThe majority of the Khmer are followers of the Khmer style of Buddhism, a highly syncretic version that blends elements of Theravada Buddhism, Hinduism, animism, and veneration of the dead. Significant populations of Khmers reside in adjacent areas of Thailand (Northern Khmer) and the Mekong Delta region of neighboring Vietnam (Khmer Krom), while there are over one million Khmers in the Cambodian diaspora living mainly in France, the United States, and Australia.\n\nThe majority of the world's Khmer people live in Cambodia, the population of which is over 90% Khmer.\n\nThere are also significant Khmer populations native to Thailand and Vietnam. In Thailand, there are over one million Khmer, mainly in Surin (\"Soren\"), Buriram (\"Borei Rom\") and Sisaket (\"Sri Saket\") provinces. Estimates for the number of Khmer in Vietnam (known as Khmer Krom) vary from the 1.1 million given by government data to seven million advocated by the Khmer Krom Federation.\n\nDue to migration as a result of the Cambodian Civil War, there is a large Khmer diaspora residing in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and France.\n\nAccording to one Khmer legend attributed by George Coedes to a tenth century inscription, the Khmer race arose from the union of the brahmin Kambu Swayambhuva and the apsara (\"celestial nymph\") Mera. Their marriage is said to have given rise to the name Khmer and founded the Varman dynasty of ancient Cambodia.\n\nA more popular legend, reenacted to this day in the traditional Khmer wedding ceremony and taught in elementary school, holds that Cambodia was created when an Indian Brahmin priest named Kaundinya (commonly referred to as \"Preah Thoang\") married Princess Soma, a Naga (Khmer: \"neak\") princess. Kaundinya sailed to Southeast Asia following an arrow he saw in a dream. Upon arrival he found an island called \"kok thlok\" and, after conquering Soma's Naga army, he fell in love with her. As a dowry, the father of princess Soma drank the waters around the island, which was revealed to be the top of a mountain, and the land below that was uncovered became Cambodia. Kaundinya and Soma and their descendents became known as the Khmer and are said to have been the rulers of Funan, Chenla and the Khmer Empire. This myth further explains why the oldest Khmer \"wats\", or temples, were always built on mountaintops, and why today mountains themselves are still revered as holy places.\n\nThe Khmers are one of the oldest ethnic groups in the area, having filtered into Southeast Asia around the same time as the Mon, who settled further to the west and to whom the Khmer are ancestrally related. Most archaeologists and linguists, and other specialists like Sinologists and crop experts, believe that they arrived no later than 2000 BCE (over four thousand years ago) bringing with them the practice of agriculture and in particular the cultivation of rice. This region is also one of the first places in the world to use bronze. They were the builders of the later Khmer Empire, which dominated Southeast Asia for six centuries beginning in 802, and now form the mainstream of political, cultural, and economic Cambodia.\n\nThe Khmers developed the Khmer alphabet, the earliest alphabet still in use in Southeast Asia, which in turn gave birth to the later Thai and Lao alphabets. The Khmers are considered by archaeologists and ethnologists to be indigenous to the contiguous regions of Isan, southern Laos, Cambodia and South Vietnam. That is to say the Khmer have historically been a lowland people who lived close to one of the tributaries of the Mekong River. The reason they migrated into Southeast Asia is not well understood, but scholars believe that Austroasiatic speakers were pushed south by invading Tibeto-Burman speakers from the north as evident by Austroasiatic vocabulary in Chinese, because of agricultural purposes as evident by their migration routes along major rivers, or a combination of these and other factors.\n\nLike the other early peoples of Southeast Asia such as the Pyu, Mon, Chams, Malays and Javanese, the Khmer were part of Greater India, adopting Indian religions, sciences, and customs and borrowing from their languages. The first powerful trading kingdom in Southeast Asia, the Kingdom of Funan, was established in southeastern Cambodia and the Mekong Delta in the first century, although extensive archaeological work in Angkor Borei District near the modern Vietnamese border has unearthed brickworks, canals, cemeteries and graves dating to the fifth century BCE.\n\nThe Kingdom of Funan is considered to be the mother of all later Southeast Asian kingdoms. During the Funan period (1st century - sixth century CE) the Khmer also acquired Buddhism, the concept of the Shaiva imperial cult of the devaraja and the great temple as a symbolic world mountain. The rival Khmer Chenla Kingdom emerged in the fifth century and later conquered the Kingdom of Funan. Chenla was an upland state whose economy was reliant on agriculture whereas Funan was a lowland state with an economy dependent on maritime trade.\n\nThese two states, even after conquest by Chenla in the sixth century, were constantly at war with each other and smaller principalities. During the Chenla period (5th-8th century), Cambodians left the world's earliest known zero in one of their temple inscriptions. Only when King Jayavarman II declared an independent and united Cambodia in 802 was there relative peace between the two lands, upper and lowland Cambodia.\n\nJayavarman II (802–830), revived Cambodian power and built the foundation for the Angkorean empire, founding three capitals—Indrapura, Hariharalaya, and Mahendraparvata—the archeological remains of which reveal much about his times. After winning a long civil war, Suryavarman I (reigned 1002–1050) turned his forces eastward and subjugated the Mon kingdom of Dvaravati. Consequently, he ruled over the greater part of present-day Thailand and Laos, as well as the northern half of the Malay Peninsula. This period, during which Angkor Wat was constructed, is considered the apex of Khmer civilization.\n\nThe Khmer kingdom became the Khmer Empire and the great temples of Angkor, considered an archeological treasure replete with detailed stone bas-reliefs showing many aspects of the culture, including some musical instruments, remain as monuments to the culture of the Khmer. After the death of Suryavarman II (1113–50), Cambodia lapsed into chaos until Jayavarman VII (1181–1218) ordered the construction of a new city. He was a Buddhist, and for a time, Buddhism became the dominant religion in Cambodia. As a state religion, however, it was adapted to suit the Deva Raja cult, with a Buddha Raja being substituted for the former Shiva Raja or Vishnu Raja.\n\nThe rise of the Tai kingdoms of Sukhothai (1238) and Ayutthaya (1350) resulted in almost ceaseless wars with the Cambodians and led to the destruction of Angkor in 1431. They are said to have carried off 90,000 prisoners, many of whom were likely dancers and musicians. The period following 1432, with the Cambodian people bereft of their treasures, documents, and human culture bearers, was one of precipitous decline.\n\nIn 1434, King Ponhea Yat made Phnom Penh his capital, and Angkor was abandoned to the jungle. Due to continued Siamese and Vietnamese aggression, Cambodia appealed to France for protection in 1863 and became a French protectorate in 1864. During the 1880s, along with southern Vietnam and Laos, Cambodia was drawn into the French-controlled Indochinese Union. For nearly a century, the French exploited Cambodia commercially, and demanded power over politics, economics, and social life.\n\nDuring the second half of the twentieth century, the political situation in Cambodia became chaotic. King Norodom Sihanouk (later, Prince, then again King), proclaimed Cambodia's independence in 1949 (granted in full in 1953) and ruled the country until March 18, 1970, when he was overthrown by General Lon Nol, who established the Khmer Republic. On April 17, 1975, the genocidal Khmer Rouge led by Saloth Sar, better known by his alias, Pol Pot, came to power and virtually destroyed the Cambodian people, their health, morality, education, physical environment, and culture.\n\nOn January 7, 1979, Vietnamese forces ousted the Khmer Rouge. After more than ten years of painfully slow rebuilding, with only meager outside help, the United Nations intervened resulting in the Paris Peace Accord on October 23, 1992 and created conditions for general elections in May 1993, leading to the formation of the current government and the restoration of Prince Sihanouk to power as King in 1993. The Khmer Rouge continued to control portions of western and northern Cambodia until the late 1990s, when they surrendered to government forces in exchange for either amnesty or re-adjustment for positions into the Cambodian government.\n\nIn the 21st century, Cambodia's economy has grown faster than that of any other country in Asia except for China and India. Today, post-conflict Cambodia exports over $5 billion worth of clothing, mainly to the United States and the European Union, is one of the top ten exporters of rice in the world, and has seen international tourist arrivals balloon from less than 150,000 in 2000 to over 4.2 million in 2013.\n\nCambodia is no longer seen as being on the brink of disaster, a reputation it gained in the 1980s and 1990s as guerilla-style warfare was still being waged by the Khmer Rouge until their ceasefire in 1998. Cambodians in the diaspora are returning to their homeland to start businesses, and expatriate Western workers in fields as diverse as architecture, archaeology, philanthropy, banking, hospitality, agriculture, music, diplomacy and garments are increasingly attracted to Cambodia because of its relaxed lifestyle and traditional way of life.\n\nThe culture of the ethnic Khmer is fairly homogeneous throughout their geographic range. Regional dialects exist, but are mutually intelligible. The standard is based on the dialect spoken throughout the Central Plain, a region encompassed by the northwest and central provinces. The varieties of Khmer spoken in this region are representative of the speech of the majority of the population. A unique and immediately recognizable dialect has developed in Phnom Penh that, due to the city's status as the national capital, has been modestly affected by recent French and Vietnamese influence.\n\nOther dialects are Northern Khmer dialect, called \"Khmer Surin\" by Cambodians, spoken by over a million Khmer native to Northeast Thailand and Khmer Krom spoken by the millions of Khmer native to the Mekong Delta regions of Vietnam adjacent to Cambodia and their descendants abroad. A little-studied dialect known as Western Khmer, or Cardamom Khmer, is spoken by a small, isolated population in the Cardamom Mountain range extending from Cambodia into eastern Central Thailand. Although little studied, it is unique in that it maintains a definite system of vocal register that has all but disappeared in other dialects of modern Khmer.\n\nThe modern Khmer strongly identify their ethnic identity with their religious beliefs and practices, which combine the tenets of Theravada Buddhism with elements of indigenous ancestor-spirit worship, animism and shamanism. Most Cambodians, whether or not they profess to be Buddhists (or Muslims), believe in a rich supernatural world. Several types of supernatural entities are believed to exist; they make themselves known by means of inexplicable sounds or happenings. Among these phenomena are \"khmaoc\" (ghosts), pret and \"besach\" (particularly nasty demons, the spirits of people who have died violent, untimely, or unnatural deaths), \"arak\" (evil spirits, usually female), \"neak ta\" (tutelary spirits residing in inanimate objects), \"mneang phteah\" (guardians of the house), \"meba\" (ancestral spirits), and \"mrenh kongveal\" (elf-like guardians of animals). All spirits must be shown proper respect, and, with the exception of the \"mneang phteah\" and \"mrenh kongveal\", they can cause trouble ranging from mischief to serious life-threatening illnesses.\n\nThe majority of the Khmer live in rural villages either as rice farmers or fishermen. Their life revolves around the \"wat\" (temple) and the various Buddhist ceremonies throughout the year. However, if Khmers become ill, they will frequently see a \"kru khmae\" (shaman/healer), whom they believe can diagnose which of the many spirits has caused the illness and recommend a course of action to propitiate the offended spirit, thereby curing the illness. The \"kru khmae\" also is learned in herb lore and is often sought to prepare various \"medicines\" and potions or for a magical tattoo, all believed to endow one with special prowess and ward off evil spirits or general bad luck. Khmer beliefs also rely heavily on astrology, a remnant of Hinduism. A fortune teller, called \"hao-ra\" or \"kru tieay\" in Khmer, is often consulted before major events, like choosing a spouse, beginning an important journey or business venture, setting the date for a wedding and determining the proper location for building new structures.\n\nThroughout the year the Khmer celebrate many holidays, most of a religious or spiritual nature, some of which are also observed as public holidays. The two most important are \"Chol Chnam\" (Cambodian New Year) and \"Pchum Ben\" (\"Ancestor Day\"). The Khmer Buddhist calendar is divided into 12 months with the traditional new year beginning on the first day of \"khae chaet\", which coincides with the first new moon of April in the western calendar. The modern celebration has been standardized to coincide with April 13.\n\nKhmer culture has influenced Thai and Lao cultures and vice versa. Many Khmer loanwords are found in Thai and Lao, while many Lao and Thai loanwords are found in Khmer. The Thai and Lao alphabets are also derived from the Khmer script.\n\nHideo Matsumoto, professor emeritus at Osaka Medical College tested Gm types, genetic markers of immunoglobulin G, of Khmer people for a 2009 study. The study found that the Gm afb1b3 is a southern marker gene possibly originating in southern China and found at high frequencies across southern China, Southeast Asia, Taiwan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, Assam and parts of the Pacific Islands. The study found that the average frequency of Gm afb1b3 was 76.7% for the Khmer population.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36274453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36274453", "title": "List of Ku Klux Klan organizations", "text": "List of Ku Klux Klan organizations\n\nSince the late 1860s, there have been many organizations that have used the title \"Ku Klux Klan\" or have split off from KKK groups using different names.\n\nDuring Reconstruction, there were a number of white supremacist paramilitary groups that were organized in order to resist the reconstruction measures. While the Ku Klux Klan was the most famous group, it overlapped in membership and ideology with a number of others. In some cases, they were virtually indistinguishable from each other.\n\n\nBetween the Reconstruction period, known as the Klan's \"first era\", and the rebirth of the modern movement in 1915, there were a handful of groups that scholars have identified as \"bridges\" that engaged in similar vigilante activities and introduced Klan-type organizing into areas untouched by Reconstruction. In some cases, small towns often had so-called \"decency committees\" or \"vigilance committees\", who often used vigilante tactics against targets such as criminals, prostitutes, drunkards, and in some instances, Black people, Native Americans, Mexicans, Chinese Americans, European immigrants, Catholics, Mormons, and non-Christians, including Jews and atheists. Sometimes, in fact, their attire or their disguises resembled those worn by the KKK.\n\nDuring the \"second era\", the KKK movement saw the rise and decline of one of the largest and most influential Klan factions, the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan Inc. There were a few splinter groups, though, such as the Knights of the Flaming Sword, founded by ousted Imperial Wizard William J. Simmons and the Independent Klan of America, founded by Indiana Grand Dragon D. C. Stephenson. The 1930s saw the growth of fascist-leaning groups such as the Black Legion and a revived Knights of the White Camellia. It was also during this time period, that, for the first time ever, certain KKK groups began openly seeking working relationships with pro-Nazi and fascist groups, such as the German-American Bund and the Silver Shirts. The KKK also openly worked alongside the Anti-Saloon League, in their shared goals of enforcing prohibition. \n\n\nIn the period roughly between the end of World War II and the passage of the Supreme Court's so-called \"Black Monday\" ruling in \"Brown v. Board of Education\", a number of small local \"associations of Klans\" were active, mainly in the Southeastern states. By this time period, the KKK already had links to the Christian Identity movement.\n\n\nDuring the period of the civil rights movement in the late 1950s and 1960s, the Klan experienced its \"third era\" which saw the growth of a number of KKK groups that sought to resist desegregation, by both peaceful and violent means. However, desegregation was not their only targets, other topics of Klan protest and hatred included the 1960's counterculture, labor unions, divorce, evolutionism, liberalism, and so-called Jewish Bolshevism. It was also around this period that many Klan groups began working with other white supremacist groups like the White Citizens' Council, the American Nazi Party and the National States' Rights Party.\n\n\nThe last decades of the 20th century and the first years of the 21st century have been hard for the Klan because the public increasingly found their views unacceptable and law enforcement agencies began to prosecute them with more vigor. Since this time period, many factions of the Klan began making alliances with neo-Nazis, white power skinheads, and radical followers of the militia movement, in order to boost membership. Many of these modern KKK groups have also been exploiting the controversial issues of illegal immigration, affirmative action, gay marriage, abortion, Islamic terrorism, and prayer in school, in order to attract membership.\nWhite Heritage Knights, Inland Empire,CA]]\n\n"}
{"id": "45515325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45515325", "title": "List of lingerie brands", "text": "List of lingerie brands\n\nThis is a list of notable lingerie brands and manufacturers. This list catalogues brands known primarily for their lingerie or underwear, and not fashion or clothing in general.\n\n"}
{"id": "330816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330816", "title": "Lisu people", "text": "Lisu people\n\nThe Lisu people (, ; ; ; Lisu: or ) are a Tibeto-Burman ethnic group who inhabit mountainous regions of Burma (Myanmar), southwest China, Thailand, and the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh.\n\nAbout 730,000 Lisu live in Lijiang, Baoshan, Nujiang, Diqing and Dehong prefectures in Yunnan Province and Sichuan Province, China. The Lisu form one of the 56 ethnic groups officially recognized by China. In Burma (Myanmar), the Lisu are recognized as one of 135 ethnic groups and an estimated population of 600,000. Lisu live in northern Myanmar; Kachin State (Putao, Myikyina, Danai, Waimaw, Bhamo), Shan state, (Momeik), (Namhsan, Lashio, Hopang, and Kokang) and southern Shan State (Namsang, Loilem, Mongton) and, Sagaing Division (Katha and Khamti), Mandalay Division (Mogok and Pyin Oo Lwin). Approximately 55,000 live in Thailand, where they are one of the 6 main hill tribes. They mainly inhabit remote mountainous areas.\n\nThe Lisu tribe consists of more than 58 different clans. Each family clan has its own name or surname. The biggest family clans well-known among the tribe clans are Laemae pha (Shue or The Grass), Bya pha (The Bee), Thorne pha, Ngwa Pha (Fish), Naw pha (Thou or Bean), Seu pha (the Woods), Khaw pha. Most of the family names came from their own work as hunters in the primitive time. However, later, they adopted many Chinese family names. Their culture has traits shared with the Yi or Nuosu (Lolo) culture.\n\nLisu history is passed from one generation to the next in the form of songs. Today, these songs are so long that they can take an entire night to sing.\n\nThe Lisu are believed to have originated in eastern Tibet even before present Tibetans arrived in the plateau. Research done by Lisu scholars indicates that they moved to northwestern Yunnan. They inhabited a region across Baoshan and the Tengchong plain for thousands of years. Lisu, Yi, Lahu, and Akha are Tibetan–Burman languages, distantly related to Burmese and Tibetan. After the Han Chinese Ming Dynasty, around 1140–1644 CE the eastern and southern Lisu languages and culture were greatly influenced by the Han culture. Taiping village in Yinjiang, Yunnan, China, was first established by Lu Shi Lisu people about 1,000 years ago. In the mid-18th century, Lisu peoples in Yinjiang began moving into Momeik, Burma, a population of southern Lisu moved into Mogok, and southern Shan State, and then in the late 19th century, moved into northern Thailand. Lisu is one of the three Lolo tribes, the descendants of Yi. Yi (or Nuosu) are still much closer to the Lisu and Myanmar languages. Myat Wai Toe observes that as the saying, “the Headwaters of the Great River, Lisu originates,” where Lisu lived in “Mou-Ku-De”; they were not yet called “Lisu” until 400–200 BC.\n\nLisu people in India are called \"Yobin\". In all government records, Lisu are Yobin, and sometimes used alternately. Lisu is one of the minority tribes of Arunachal Pradesh of India. They live mainly in Vijoynagar Circle in 11 villages. Gandhigram (or Shidi in Lisu) is the largest village. Lisus are found in Miao town and Injan village of Kharsang Circle Changlang District. The Lisu traditionally lived in the Yunnan Province of China and northern Myanmar. There are about 5,000 Lisu people in India.\n\nOn 7 May 1961, the 7th Assam Rifles expedition team led by Major Sumer Singh entered the Noa-dihing river valley and reached the largest village in the valley, Shidi (now called Gandhigram). They were accorded a warm reception by the villagers and were further told by the villagers that they were the first party to have visited the area since World War II. The Assam Rifles team assured the villagers that this virgin land was Indian territory and the people would be protected from enemy aggression. Till then the international border was not clearly demarcated. In 1972, the Demarcation of International Border with Burma was done, with the help of Lisu guides having a full knowledge of the region. During demarcation, cement International Border Pillars (IBP) were erected at regular intervals.\n\nInitially, the Indo-Burmese border had been drawn based on surveys conducted under the Topographical Survey of British India as early as 1912, following the highest ridge from the Hkakabo Razi (alt. ; the highest point in Myanmar) at the junction with the Chinese border in the north, to the Chittagong Hills in Bangladesh according to a \"combination of ridges, watershed and highest crests\". Later, during World War II, G.D.L. Millar’s diary recalls the escape of a party of 150 European, Indian and Kachin officials and civilians fleeing the advance of the Japanese in May 1942. They went from Putao (Kachin) to Margherita (Assam) via the Chaukan Pass, and followed the valley of the Noa-dihing river. Millar records that over a hundred miles of the Chaukan Pass, \"there was no trace of man\" either Lisu or any other tribe. The border negotiations with China that led to the 1962 Sino-Indian War, and the intrusion of Chinese troops into the Indian State of Arunachal Pradesh, propelled the Government of India to secure its international borders in the North East region, defined as per the Topographical Survey of British India. The Assam Rifles Regiments who took control of the border area hired labourers from various tribes, including Lisus, to built the air strip at Vijoynagar. In 1969–70, 200 families were settled in the area. In 2010, the population was estimated at 5500 including Nepalis and Lisus/Yobin.\n\nSome groups of Lisus took the then Ledo Road. Some of them worked as coal miners under British. (One certificate that originally belonged to one Aphu Lisu is a British coal miner's certificate from 1918, preserved by the Lisu). The certificate bears the mark of the then governor who ruled the region from Lakhimpur, Assam (it should be noted, however, that the section of Ledo road between Ledo and Shingbwiyang was only opened in 1943. Most of the Lisu who lived in Assam went back to Burma. However, some are still found in the Kharangkhu area of Assam, Kharsang Circle of Arunachal Pradesh. While most have lost their mother tongue, some have preserved the language and culture almost intact.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the Lisu people living in India did not have Indian citizenship as they were considered refugees from Burma (Myanmar). In 1994, Indian citizenship was granted to them, but not Scheduled Tribe status. This is currently the subject of a claim to the Government.\n\nExcept for the arrival of a fleet of jeeps in the late 1970s, the area has been without roads and vehicles for 4 decades. The area is isolated, hence some describing the people as \"prisoners of geography\".\n\nLisu were evicted from their villages in 1964 under the command of A.S. Guarya, the late Governor General of Arunachal Pradesh. He settled Indian ex-servicemen in their villages. Those villages still retain their original names. The Lisu were chased out of their villages down to Gandhigram villages and other areas. These villages suffered from floods and lost much of their rice paddies and had to find new ground.\n\nIn fact, Namdapha was originally declared a Wildlife Sanctuary in 1972, then a National Park in 1983. The authorities demarcated the southern boundary near Gandhigram village. Since then the Lisus settling in the National Park are considered as \"encroachers\" as per the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. Between 1976 and 1981, a road was made between Miao and Vijoynagar (MV road) by the Public Works Department following the left bank of the Noa-dihing river through Namdapha National Park but proved difficult to maintain due to extreme rainfall and frequent landslides. It was also felt that a road would further facilitate wildlife poaching and land encroachment in the National Park. Renovation of the MV road was announced in 2010 and 2013.\n\nThe Lisu tribe consists of more than 58 different clans. Each family clan has its own name or surname. The largest families among the tribal clans are Putao Laemae pha (who speak some Bai), Bya pha (The Bee), Tung pha, Ngua Pha (Fish), Naw pha (some of them are descended from Anung or Khingphang patriclans), Seu pha (the Woods), Southern Laemae pha or Tsao jia pha (also known as a decedent of Yi tribe people), Khaw pha. Most of the family names came from their own work as hunters in primitive times. However, later, they adopted many Chinese family names.\n\nAfter the Ming Dynasty, most Hua Lisu people had become a people that lived in villages high in the mountains or in mountain valleys. However, those who still lived in the Paoshan plains, standing on the side of the Qing Dynasty, fought against the Kingdom of Ming. The Lisu knife ladder climbing festival was first held as a memorial event of victory over Ming in 1644 CE. The Lisu people adopted their own traditional dance so called \"che-ngoh-che\" along with the Lisu guitar which has no bars on the fretboard from Han Chinese. They also used a musical instrument called fulu jewlew possibly invented by Yi tribe people. It is a kind of flute that has about six or seven small bamboo tubes tied up together to a dried-hollow-gourd.\n\nSongs and dances differ according to the occasion. Weddings, homecomings, harvests, and other ceremonial events all have their corresponding music and dances.\n\nLisu villages are usually built close to water to provide easy access for washing and drinking. Their homes are usually built on the ground and have dirt floors and bamboo walls, although an increasing number of the more affluent Lisu are now building houses of wood or even concrete.\n\nLisu subsistence was based on paddy fields, mountain rice, fruit and vegetables. However, they have typically lived in ecologically fragile regions that do not easily support subsistence. They also faced constant upheaval from both physical and social disasters (earthquakes and landslides; wars and governments). Therefore, they have typically been dependent on trade for survival. This included work as porters and caravan guards. With the introduction of the opium poppy as a cash crop in the early 19th century, many Lisu populations were able to achieve economic stability. This lasted for over 100 years, but opium production has all but disappeared in Thailand and China due to interdiction of production. Very few Lisu ever used opium, or its more common derivative heroin, except for medicinal use by the elders to alleviate the pain of arthritis.\n\nThe Lisu practiced swidden (slash-and-burn) agriculture. In conditions of low population density where land can be fallowed for many years, swiddening is an environmentally sustainable form of horticulture. Despite decades of swiddening by hill tribes such as the Lisu, northern Thailand had a higher proportion of intact forest than any other part of Thailand. However, with road building by the state, logging (some legal, but mostly illegal) by Thai companies, enclosure of land in national parks, and influx of immigrants from the lowlands, swidden fields can not be fallowed, can not re-grow, and swiddening results in large swathes of deforested mountainsides. Under these conditions, Lisu and other swiddeners have been forced to turn to new methods of agriculture to sustain themselves.\n\nPerhaps the best-known subgroup of the Lisu is the Flowery Lisu in Thailand, due to hill tribe tourism. Lisu women are notable for their brightly colored dress. They wear a multi-colored knee-length tunics of red, blue, or green with a wide black belt and blue or black pants. Sleeve shoulders and cuffs are decorated with a dense applique of narrow horizontal bands of blue, red and yellow. Men wear baggy pants, usually in bright colors but normally wear a more Western-type of shirt or top.\n\nAround 2002, as cellular phone signals reached deeper and deeper into the valleys of northern Thailand, the Lisu embraced the technology in unanticipated fashion: the Lisu purchased unlimited calling plans and started to sing and improvise to each other over mobile connections. Lisu people who still adhere to animistic beliefs sing the traditional chants of the story tellers, adding their own improvisations.\n\nThe Thai Lisu traditional costume shown here is much different from the main Lisu traditional costume being widely used in Nujiang Lisu Autonomous Prefecture, Yunnan, China and Putao, Danai, Myitkyina, Northern Myanmar.\n\nBeginning in the early 20th century, many Lisu people in India and Burma converted to Christianity. Missionaries such as James O. Fraser, Allyn Cooke and Isobel Kuhn and her husband, John, of the China Inland Mission (now OMF International), were active with the Lisu of Yunnan. Among the missionaries, James Outram Fraser (1880–1938) was the first missionary to reach the Lisu people in China. Another missionary who evangelized Lisu people in Myanmar was Thara Saw Ba Thaw (1889–1968). It is recorded that James Fraser and Saw Ba Thaw together created the Lisu alphabet in 1914. There were many other missionaries who brought Christianity to Lisu people. David Fish researches,\n\nIn addition, the first missionaries in China and Myanmar were Russell Morse and his wife, Gertrude Erma Howe, whom she became Gertrude Morse after marriage with Russell Morse. The Missionaries of Christian Churches or Church of Christ in Myanmar were Morse families. In their chronology of mission record, Morse family started their mission in China in 1926 and due to political unrest, they traveled to Burma (Myanmar) and began teaching among Lisu tribe in 1930.\n\nThe Lisu people's convert to Christianity was relatively fast. It is logged that by the effort of Morse family and missionaries, many Lisu and Rawang converted to Christianity from animism. Before World War II, the Lisu tribes who live in Yunnan, China and Ah-Jhar river valley, Myanmar, were evangelized by missionaries from Tibetan Lisuland Mission and Lisuland Churches of Christ. Many Lisu then converted to Christianity.\n\nDevelopment done among missionaries for the Lisu included education, agriculture and health care. The missionaries created Lisu literature (the written language). With the help of missionaries, the development had occurred for many years. The researcher's father, U Li Ye Jar testified that within 50 years, the development of the Lisu will be at a high speed. Concerning the work of missionaries, David Fish studied,\n\nFurthermore, the missionaries learned the situation of Lisu culture, so they could rapidly spread Christianity. They used various kind of methods, including teaching hymns, sending medicines and doctors, helping the needy, and providing the funds for domestic missionaries and evangelists. They also helped in developing their agriculture.\n\nThe Chinese government's Religious Affairs Bureau has proposed considering Christianity as the official religion of the Lisu.\n\nAccording to OMF International estimates, as of 2008, there are now more than 700,000 Christian Lisu in Yunnan, and 450,000 in Burma. Only the Lisu of Thailand have remained unchanged by Christian influences. Christianity is now gradually becoming the dominant religion among the Lisu people.\n\nBefore Christianity was introduced to Lisu people, they were animists. Archibald Rose points that the religion of the Lisus appears to be a simple form of animism or nat-worship, sacrifices being offered to the spirits of the mountains. Most important rituals are performed by shamans. The main Lisu festival corresponds to Chinese New Year and is celebrated with music, feasting and drinking, as are weddings; people wear large amounts of silver jewelry and wear their best clothes at these times as a means of displaying their success in the previous agricultural year. In each traditional village there is a sacred grove at the top of the village, where the sky spirit or, in China, the Old Grandfather Spirit, are propitiated with offerings; each house has an ancestor altar at the back of the house.\n\nLinguistically, the Lisu belong to the Yi or Nuosu branch of the Sino-Tibetan family.\n\nThere are two scripts in use and the Chinese Department of Minorities publishes literature in both. The oldest and most widely used one is the Fraser alphabet developed about 1920 by James O. Fraser and the ethnic Karen evangelist Ba Thaw. The second script was developed by the Chinese government and is based on pinyin.\n\nFraser's script for the Lisu language was used to prepare the first published works in Lisu which were a catechism, portions of scripture, and eventually, with much help from his colleagues, a complete New Testament in 1936. In 1992, the Chinese government officially recognized the Fraser alphabet as the official script of the Lisu language.\n\nOnly a small portion of Lisu are actually able to read or write the script, with most learning to read and write the local language (Chinese, Thai, Burmese) through primary education.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9774953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9774953", "title": "Los Alfaques disaster", "text": "Los Alfaques disaster\n\nThe Los Alfaques disaster was a road accident and tanker explosion which occurred on 11 July 1978 in Alcanar, near Tarragona, in Spain. The tanker truck was loaded with 23 tons of highly flammable liquefied propylene. 217 people (including the driver) were killed and 200 more severely burned.\n\nMost of the victims were vacationers in the Los Alfaques seaside campsite. The campsite is located at km 159 on the N-340 national road, 2 km south of the town of Sant Carles de la Ràpita. It has been renovated since and still exists today.\n\nThe truck, consisting of a Pegaso tractor unit registered M-7034-C and a Fruehauf semi-trailer tanker registered M-7981-R, was owned by Cisternas Reunidas S.A. At 10:15 that day, the truck, driven by 50-year-old Francisco Imbernón Villena, arrived at the state-owned Enpetrol refinery, located at La Pobla de Mafumet, 9 km North of Tarragona, to be loaded with propylene for another state-owned company, Paular (now Repsol), from Puertollano.\n\nAt 12:05 the truck left the refinery carrying 23 tons of propylene, nearly 4 tons over the maximum design load of 19.35 tons. The tanker drivers were under instructions to take the smaller N-340 national road instead of the larger A-7 motorway when carrying cargo to Barcelona, in order to avoid the motorway toll. The N-340 was much narrower and more winding than the A-7, and also carried drivers directly through several densely populated areas.\n\nOn a summer day with temperatures from 20–35 °C (68–95 °F), the pressure in the tank would have been .\n\nThe disaster occurred at ca. 14:35, while the truck was moving past the Los Alfaques campsite after having travelled 102 km. The driver's watch, which was found still attached to the driver's burned wrist, had stopped at 14:36, the time of the explosion.\n\nThere are several different witness reports as to the events directly preceding the blast, all of which are more or less equally plausible. Some reported the tank was already leaking as it approached the site, or sprung a leak with a loud bang while passing the site, and was then stopped by the driver. Others reported the bang being caused by a blown tire which caused the truck to swerve out of control and strike the wall separating the campsite from the roadside, possibly overturning in the process.\n\nIn either case, the leaking tanker formed a cloud of gaseous propylene that partially entered the campsite and also drifted on the wind towards a discothèque to the northeast. The white cloud attracted the attention of campsite patrons, who approached the cloud with curiosity as it continued to spread. As the cloud began to permeate the crowded discothèque, it reached an ignition source and immediately flashed back into the tanker, causing a fire that nearly instantaneously ruptured the weakened tank and ignited the full load of gas.\n\nAt that time the campsite to the south was crowded with nearly 1,000 vacationers, mostly German and other foreign tourists, packed tightly in trailers and tents. The blast and fireball (which was estimated at over 1000 °C and left a 65'x5' [19.8 x 1.5 meters] crater) destroyed everything – cars, trailers and buildings – within a 300-metre radius, gutting over 90% of the main camping area. The discothèque to the northeast, which was later determined to be the likely source of the ignition, was also razed, killing all the staff members inside.\n\nThe explosion and fireball instantly killed the driver and other people within the area. A total of 157 people died on site as a result of the initial explosion and the subsequent fires and explosions of cars and gas cylinders used by the tourists. Victims were seen with their hair and clothing aflame running into the sea in an attempt to extinguish the flames.\n\nIn the first 45 minutes after the disaster, the wounded were removed in an uncoordinated fashion with the help of other survivors using their own cars and vans. Locals also provided help and took the wounded to the hospitals. Ambulances and other emergency forces gradually arrived. The Civil Guard and the armed forces searched the devastated camp for survivors. It took three hours until the last wounded was removed and taken to hospital.\n\nThe burning tanker blocked the road, dividing the injured into two groups, one being taken northwards and the other southwards. On the road to the north, the injured received adequate medical care, once they had reached either the hospitals at Amposta or at Tortosa. At this stage, the final destination of 58 severely burned patients was the Francisco Franco Hospital in Barcelona. 82 severely burned patients were taken south to the La Fe Hospital in Valencia. In most cases no medical steps of any importance were taken during the journey. Several of the injured developed severe shock on the journey and had no measurable blood pressure on arrival. Many of the patients had burns covering more than 90% of their bodies, and most of them died during the following days. Contributing to the high mortality figure was the inappropriate medical care given en route to the hospital.\n\nIn the week following the disaster, the patients from France, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands were evacuated to their own countries.\n\n300 people were wounded, some of them severely. 217 people died as a result of the disaster, while the total number of people who died over the following months as a result of their injuries was at least 270. Among them, four were Spaniards, and all the others were foreigners. The official figure for the number of victims is 215.\n\nMany of the victims were burned beyond recognition. Most of them were wearing only swimming suits, and the building where their documents were stored was destroyed in the explosion. There was no DNA test available at that time. As a result of the work done by the forensic teams from the tourists' home countries, all the victims were eventually identified.\n\nSeven of the victims remained unidentified until some time later, and they were interred at the cemetery of Tortosa, Tarragona. The bodies of a French family, consisting of a couple and their two children, were returned to France some years later, after compensation had been settled. The bodies of another family of three originating from Colombia were never sent home, and they remain the only foreigners to be interred at the cemetery of Tortosa along with local victims.\n\nFollowing the accident, Cisternas Reunidas accepted responsibility for the disaster, but denied any order or prohibition to the drivers to use the motorway instead of the national road, claiming that it is the driver who chooses which road to take. Later, some workers at the Tarragona plant stated they heard Imbernón heatedly arguing with someone on the phone and demanding money for the motorway toll.\nEnpetrol initially declined any responsibility, claiming that the delivery of the cargo is on the carrier's responsibility, and they have not received any complaint.\n\nThe official inquiry identified that the truck had been severely overloaded, and also lacked emergency pressure release valves, which are designed to help prevent a BLEVE in case of a fire. However, these valves were no longer mandatory in 1978, although they previously were. The truck was due for an inspection check-over in 1980, and it had passed the previous inspection.\n\nThe tank container was manufactured at 13 December 1973 by a workshop from Bilbao, and at that time it did not meet the requirements for carrying flammable liquids, since it lacked emergency pressure release valves. Therefore, the tank had been used to carry other substances, some of which were highly corrosive. Tests on the remnants of the steel tank revealed microscopic stress cracks consistent with corrosion caused by previous loads of improperly overpressurized anhydrous ammonia. Combined with whether the tanker suffered an impact that caused additional structural damage, these factors likely led to the almost instantaneous rupture of the tank when the flames flashed back into the tanker. Even without safety valves, a structurally sound and properly filled tanker should have been able to maintain structural integrity in a fire long enough to at least allow nearby people to escape.\n\nThe inquiry also revealed that overloading of tankers was common practice at Enpetrol refineries. The Tarragona facility lacked either a meter to measure the amount of gas dispensed or an automatic shut-off device to prevent overfilling, and consequently most tanks were consistently overloaded. The driver was neither informed of the overloading, nor about the type and class of the cargo, and there was no means for him to check the pressure level of the tank before he departed or to monitor it in transit. He had not attended the hazmat training program for drivers of dangerous goods, because the company considered his experience of twenty years as a truck driver to be sufficient. The inquiry also determined that, between 3 January and 7 July that year, 32 tanks left the Tarragona refinery overloaded, with drivers other than Imbernón.\n\nAfter the tragedy, the transit of populated areas by vehicles carrying dangerous cargo was prohibited in Spain, and would only be driven at night.\n\nIn 1982, four employees of ENPETROL and two of Cisternas Reunidas were convicted of criminal negligence, and were sentenced to prison for between one and four years. Later, four of them were released after appealing the Court's decision, and all prison sentences were suspended or reduced. The two companies paid an equivalent of €13.23 million (not allowing for inflation) as compensation to the victims.\n\nThe accident is featured in the 2007 German film Day of Disaster, directed by Peter Keglevic. However, the film is loosely based on real facts, and contains blunders and factual errors, such as cars or registration plates which could only have appeared years later, or the driver spending the night before at home with the already (over)loaded tanker parked in front of his house.\n\nSix months after the tragedy, the completely renovated campsite was reopened to tourists. \n\nThe owners of the Los Alfaques campsite have sought relief through Spanish courts under the newly approved \"Right to Be Forgotten\" Act passed by Spain in regard to having the disaster land as the top 12 search results on Google, including thumbnail disturbing images of remains and coroner procedures during cleanup of the campground. The trial was dismissed, informing the plaintiffs that they would need to pursue a U.S. lawsuit against Google.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14513145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14513145", "title": "Marampudi Joji", "text": "Marampudi Joji\n\nMarampudi Joji (7 October 1942 – 27 August 2010) was the third Archbishop of Hyderabad. He was born in Bhimavaram and died at the Bishop's House, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh. Latin, Telugu, and English were the languages known to the Archbishop.\n\nJoji was educated at the Lutheran Boarding School in Peddapuram near Samalkot which is managed by the Priests of the Andhra Evangelical Lutheran Church (AELC).\n\nJoji was ordained as a priest on 14 December 1971 in the diocese of Vijayawada. Joji was privileged to have received Blessed Mother Teresa when she went to Vijayawada to initiate the work of the Missionaries of Charity.\n\nOn 21 December 1991, he was appointed as the Bishop of Khammam and consecrated on 19 March 1992. He served until 8 November 1996 when he was transferred to the Diocese of Vijayawada.\n\nBishop Joji became the Bishop of Vijayawada on 8 November 1996. However, he took charge of the diocese only on 19 January 1997.\n\nOn 29 January 2000, he was appointed as the Archbishop of Hyderabad. He was installed by Archbishop Giorgio Zur in the presence of his predecessor Archbishop S. Arulappa and of Bishop Joseph S. Thumma on 30 April 2000.\n\nJoji inaugurated the Hyderabad session of the scholarly Church History Association of India incorporating Church Historians of the Pentecostal, Protestant, Orthodox, and Catholic traditions.\n\nArchbishop Joji was known for his able administration. He seemed to have headed the Diocese of Vijayawada's Social Service Society before being elevated to the Bishopric of Khammam.\n\nThe Archbishop has principally consecrated three Bishops of Andhra Pradesh:\n\n"}
{"id": "3707453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3707453", "title": "Marri (tribe)", "text": "Marri (tribe)\n\nMarri is one of the strongest Baloch tribes in Balochistan, Pakistan. The Marri tribe has three major sub-clans; Gazeni, Bijarani and Lohrani.\n\nIn February 1973, the Pakistani government intercepted an arms shipment from Iraq intended for delivery to Marri tribe militants. President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto dismissed the Balochistan government and put the province under the central government's rule. The result was that large numbers of Marri tribesmen went to the hills in 1974 for an armed insurgency, and Mir Hazar Khan Ramkhani formed an organization called the Baluch People's Liberation Front. It took the Pakistani army four years to bring the situation under control.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36685276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36685276", "title": "Minor Calvo", "text": "Minor Calvo\n\nMinor de Jesus Calvo is a Catholic priest and radio personality born in Costa Rica, convicted of fraud and accused of murder in 2007.\n\nFather Minor jumped into the public eye as a charismatic leader in the Catholic Church in Costa Rica, he was able to gather many people in the Paso Ancho church.\n\nHe then got his own TV show, that lasted about 3 minutes, and in which he read a Bible passage and analyzed by applying it to everyday life. This program gave popularity to the father, who soon moved to the radio.\n\nRadio Maria de Guadalupe was founded with the help of many entrepreneurs, but also monetary contributions collected in donation campaigns organized by the station, through various events, from social, to even people that were made to the radio to deposit their donations.\n\nThe station Radio Maria de Guadalupe collected approximately ¢ 1,000,000 (about $2,500 of that time) daily, which is a record in Costa Rican radio, second only to programs (television, radio because no one has these figures) created specifically to raise money, such as Chain Telethon or Mayor.\n\nHowever, criticism from a satirical radio comedy program, called La Patada (The Kick) conducted by a Colombian named Parmenio Medina (assassinated in 2001), created friction between the two programs, as la patada accused the Radio Maria de Guadalupe of alleged embezzlement, The kick was characterized by a cutting sarcastic humor, and their jokes used to be topics about corruption, football, politics, and now, \"Radio Maria de Guadalupe\".\n\nThis version was supported by some former employees of the radio, but was denied by the father, despite weighing evidence against him:\n\n\nThe situation worsened when the priest was stopped in his car by police officer of Costa Rica driving on the night in La Sabana Metropolitan Park (which is not a road crossing zone, and that for the most part, has no lighting at night) accompanied by a minor. While the father wasn't caught committing a crime, the situation was taken by many as reprehensible, or at least suspect. The father testified that he was teaching the child how to drive.\n\nDue to the highly controversial situation, Monsignor Román Arrieta Villalobos (who would die two years later), the highest Catholic authority in Costa Rica, decided to terminate the operations of the radio. Several groups demonstrated against the closure, as were certain groups of taxi drivers and other followers of the radio. But the decision was taken and held.\n\nToday, the frequency is used by the radio station \"La Paz del Dial\" and remains of a religious theme.\n\nOn July 7, 2001, Parmenio Medina was shot dead at the entrance of his home. This crime was perpetrated by hired killers, who fled the scene quickly, police said in a gray Hyundai.\n\nThe suspicions relating Calvo to the crime were confirmed when he was arrested on charges of masterminding the crime, along with businessman Omar Chávez.\n\nParmenio Medina's murder was heavily covered and discussed in Costa Rica. Partly this was because of the direct involvement of a notorious Catholic priest in a country with a heavy Roman Catholic majority. It was also the first murder of a journalist in Costa Rica, and thus a direct challenge to the country's freedom of expression.\n\n\nOn December 18, 2007, father Minor was sentenced to 15 years in prison for fraud in relation to the Catholic station Radio Maria de Guadalupe, but was acquitted of involvement in the murder of Parmenio Medina. Moreover, Omar Chavez was sentenced to 35 years in prison for the murder of Medina and 12 for fraud in relation to Radio Maria de Guadalupe, while another defendant was sentenced to 30 years for murder. In total, the 9 accused, 6 were acquitted and 3 convicted, which had generated much controversy in the country.\n"}
{"id": "20745329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20745329", "title": "National development bank", "text": "National development bank\n\nThe National Development Bank is a development bank created by a country's government, that provides financing for the purposes of economic development of the country.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20677163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20677163", "title": "Pakistanis in Singapore", "text": "Pakistanis in Singapore\n\nThe majority of Pakistanis in Singapore enter the country as university students. More than 100 Pakistani students study in the National University of Singapore alone. \n\nThere is also a Singapore Urdu Development Centre offering classes in Urdu language to the children of Pakistanis, whereas Singapore Pakistani Association promotes Pakistani culture in Singapore in collaboration with the Pakistan high commission in Singapore.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4488859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4488859", "title": "Palijo", "text": "Palijo\n\nThe Palijo / Palejo / Paleejo / Palija / Paleja / Paleeja (Sindhi: پليجو) is a Sindhi tribe / Community of Sindh province, Pakistan. Palijo / Palejo / Paleejo / Palija / Paleja / Paleeja is a Sammat tribe. During the Talpur dynasty and before, this tribe held lands on the banks of the Indus River when that area was under official administration of the Palijo tribe and was called \"Palijar'pargana\", ranging from Choriya Jagir, now in Tando Muhammad Khan District, to Pinyari Phat, in Sujawal District.\n\nMost of this tribe live mainly in the Bannu, and Daro areas of Sujawal District, Jungshahi, Gujjo, Gharo and Mirpur Sakro areas of Thatta District, Nasarpur in Matiari District, Dadoon and Norai in Tando Muhammad Khan District. However some families are settled Sunn in Jamshoro District, Bangaldero in Larkana District, Hingorja in Khairpur District, and in the cities of Hyderabad and Karachi\nThe Total population of Palijo tribe is around 15,000. The head (Sardar) of this tribe is called Arbab and current head of Palijo tribe is Arbab Abdul Hai Palijo son of late Arbab Noor Muhammad Palijo.\n\nSome well known political personalities from the Palijo tribe are: \n"}
{"id": "30602927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30602927", "title": "ParoleWatch", "text": "ParoleWatch\n\nParoleWatch was a privately run website started in 1997 that provided public access to data on convicted felons in New York State who were coming up for parole review. The project's aim was to let citizens \"communicate their views on would-be parolees to the New York State Parole Board.\"\n\n\"ParoleWatch will not be the first such site\" with information on potential parolees, \"The New York Times\" reported in April 1997. \"For almost a year, the New Jersey State Parole Board has published on the Web a list of inmates eligible for parole. But ParoleWatch might well be the first parole Web site published by a private organization.\" In an article for the KlaasKids Foundation, ParoleWatch's founder predicted that \"Eventually people in every state will be just a few mouse-clicks away from this kind of data.\"\n\nParoleWatch was organized by the anti-crime group Take Back New York, and grew out of the group's grass-roots efforts to block the parole of a convicted murderer. The New York State Department of Correctional Services provided the data for ParoleWatch.\n\n\"The New York Times\" wrote that the project had \"prominent supporters.\" New York divorce lawyer Raoul Felder served as chairman of ParoleWatch's advisory board, \"which also includes several well-known victims' rights advocates.\"\n\nFelder told \"The Times\" \"he backed the project because too often victims receive no notification when offenders are up for parole. 'There is a blank spot in the criminal justice system,' Felder said. 'We put these guys away. They get out and the victims usually have no way of knowing when they get out.' ParoleWatch, he said, 'gives them a fair shot.'\n\nAccording to the \"New York Post\", one effect of ParoleWatch was to turn parole reform into a national issue.\n\nIn his book \"The Control Revolution: How the Internet is Putting Individuals in Charge and Changing the World We Know\", Andrew L. Shapiro said that ParoleWatch \"demonstrates much of what is possible when it comes to individuals using interactive technology to transform politics -- and what might go wrong. ... ParoleWatch does a real public service by giving citizens access to data about violent offenders and their release dates.\" But it prompted \"people to 'take action'...based on a very limited view of each case.\"\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union had voiced similar criticisms when ParoleWatch was launched. In an interview with \"Wired\", Take Back New York Executive Director Joe Diamond responded to the ACLU's objections by \"conced[ing] that Parolewatch 'is not overly concerned with the prisoner's point of view.'\"\n\nShapiro wrote that, as a victims' rights organization, ParoleWatch was \"fully entitled to express its views on crime and safety\" and that law-and-order advocates have always \"had the ability to lobby parole boards.\" In Shapiro's view, however, there was a danger \"in ParoleWatch's sophisticated harnessing of new technology. It uses the pinpoint accuracy of a computer database to match citizens in certain neighborhoods with felons who might be released there, and it relies on the Net's interactivity to give folks a free and easy way to voice their opposition -- without having to take time to become well informed, let alone to hear the views of others.\"\n\nSome of the criticism of ParoleWatch was more tongue-in-cheek. \"A better name for the Web site address is www.rotinjail.com,\" said activist attorney Ron Kuby.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5549311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5549311", "title": "Pashayi languages", "text": "Pashayi languages\n\nPashayi or Pashai is a group of languages spoken by the Pashai people in parts of Kapisa, Laghman, Nuristan, Kunar, and Nangarhar Provinces in Northeastern Afghanistan. It belongs to the Dardic branch of the Indo-Aryan languages. Most speakers are bilingual in Pashto with a literacy rate of about 25%, with the Pashayi languages having no written form prior to 2003. There are four mutually unintelligible varieties, with only about a 30% lexical similarity:\n\n\nA grammar of the language was written as a doctoral dissertation in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "44158428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44158428", "title": "Polish people in Lebanon", "text": "Polish people in Lebanon\n\nPolish people in Lebanon may refer to people born in or residing in Lebanon of full or partial Polish origin. They are a small group in Lebanon. Almost all of which live in Beirut.\n\nThe first mention of Poles in the areas of modern Lebanon was from the time of the Crusades, which were attended by Polish nobles, as well as numerous pilgrimages to the Holy Land. From this period comes the first recorded pilgrim brother Anselm of Bernardine order that contains a reference to passing through Lebanon. First described the Lebanese lands Prince Nicholas Krzysztof Radziwill in his diary of the journey to Jerusalem, which took place in the years 1582-1584.\n\nIn the 1830s and 1840s Polish Jesuit missionary Maximilian Stanislaw Ryllo was active in Lebanon. In Ghazir Julius Slovak stopped during his trip to the Middle East in 1837.\n\nDuring the Crimean War Sadyk Pasha formed Cossack cavalry regiment, composed primarily of Poles. In recognition of the regiment was drafted into the Guard and sent to Lebanon in 1865. The first commander of this department was Stefan Gościmiński (Tufan Bey), and his successor Louis Sas Monasterska (Lufti Bey). After 24 years Polish regiment in Lebanon ceased to exist.\n\nIn the years 1902-1907 the Pole Władysław Czajkowski (Muzaffar Pasha) was the governor of Lebanon.\n\nIn the years 1943-1946 about 6,000 Poles settled in Lebanon, mostly women and children who, through got out of the Soviet Union via Iran and the Middle East. They joined, a small group of Polish citizens who had arrived there in the years 1939-1942 and were living in Beirut. Upon arrival the refugees were under the care of Polish Legation, representing the official Polish Government in London, recognized as legitimate by the Lebanese authorities.\n\nAt the beginning the Poles were accepted in the transit camp in Beirut, and then resettled in Ghazirze, Zuk Mikail, Ajaltun, Baladun, Beit-Chabab, Roumie and Baabdat. It was assumed the school, a small Polish library of about 500 books. There were also hospitals for refugees and the Polish church in Ghazirze. In Bahamdun and Bhannes created Polish spas. From November 1941 Beirut Radio \"Levant\" broadcast daily programs for the Polish Army in the Middle East, and from February 1942 Polish programs were broadcast twice a day. At the end of the 1940s a Polish cemetery was created by French military units in Beirut, which during the Lebanese Civil War was right next to the \"green line\" dividing the city and as a result of the bombing was totally destroyed, but was completely renovated in 2010.\n\nThe Poles that were living for many years in Lebanon did not have the ability to contact each other due to ongoing in 1975-1990 civil war. The situation changed only in 1991 with the creation of \"Polish Club\", transformed in the next year into \"Association \"Polish Community in Lebanon\". The main objective of this organization is to maintain the tradition, culture and mother tongue, as well as the behavior of Polish origin of consciousness in children born in Lebanon. The Polish Association also tries to promote Polish culture among the Lebanese people. In 1992, the association \"School of Polish Language and Culture\" began operations. In March 1997, the first issue of the monthly magazine \"Polish cedars\" was distributed.\n\nAlso, a large role in maintaining contact with their homeland played Polish Military Contingent, which was stationed in Lebanon in the years 1992-2009. An important event in the life of the Polish Lebanese community was the meeting with Pope John Paul II, during his pilgrimage in May 1997. \nDuring the Israeli-Lebanese conflict in 2006, a portion of Poles, mostly women and children, were temporarily evacuated to Poland.\n"}
{"id": "1003073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1003073", "title": "Pori people", "text": "Pori people\n\nThe Pori is a tribe from the Centre and East Provinces of Cameroon.\n"}
{"id": "9838120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9838120", "title": "Psychometrics of racism", "text": "Psychometrics of racism\n\nPsychometrics of racism is an emerging field that aims to measure the incidence and impacts of racism on the psychological well-being of people of all races. At present, there are few instruments that attempt to capture the experience of racism in all of its complexity.\n\nThe Schedule of Racist Events (SRE) is questionnaire for assessing frequency of racial discrimination in lives of African Americans created in 1998 by Hope Landrine and Elizabeth A. Klonoff. SRE is an 18-item self-report inventory, assesses frequency of specific racist events in past year and in one's entire life, and measures to what extent this discrimination was stressful.\n\nOther psychometric tools for assessing the impacts of racism include:\n\nIn a summary of recent research Jules P. Harrell, Sadiki Hall, and James Taliaferro describe how a growing body of research has explored the impact of encounters with racism or discrimination on physiological activity. Several of the studies suggest that higher blood pressure levels are associated with the tendency not to recall or report occurrences identified as racist and discriminatory. In other words, failing to recognize instances of racism is directly impacted by the blood pressure of the person experiencing the racist event. Investigators have reported that physiological arousal is associated with laboratory analogues of ethnic discrimination and mistreatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "16098370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16098370", "title": "Rendille–Boni languages", "text": "Rendille–Boni languages\n\nThe Rendille–Boni languages is a proposed subgroup of the Macro-Somali languages, belonging to the Cushitic family. The languages are spoken in Kenya. The hypothesis has been by now rejected, in favor of grouping Aweer as a member of the Somali languages, closely related to Garre.\n"}
{"id": "336650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336650", "title": "Sept", "text": "Sept\n\nA sept is an English word for a division of a family, especially of a Scottish or Irish family. The word may derive from the Latin \"saeptum\", meaning \"enclosure\" or \"fold\", or via an alteration of \"sect\". The term is used in both Ireland and Scotland, where it may be translated as \"sliocht\", meaning \"progeny\" or \"seed\", which may indicate the descendants of a person (for example, \"Sliocht Brian Mac Diarmada\", \"the descendant of Brian MacDermott\").\n\n\"Síol\" is a Gaelic word meaning \"progeny\" or \"seed\" that is used in the context of a family or clan with members who bear the same surname and inhabited the same territory, as a manner of distinguishing one group from another; a family called \"Mac an Bháird\" (anglicised as \"Ward\") might be divided into septs such as \"Síol Seán Mac Briain\", \"Síol Conchobhair Óg\", \"Síol Sean Cuinn\", or \"Síol Cú Chonnacht\". Each of these individual septs may further subdivide into more septs, which may sometimes lead to the development of novel surnames and/or the rise of the family such that it may be considered a clan in its own right. Such septs were common in Scotland, where the clan system was well-developed.\n\nIn the context of Scottish clans, septs are families that followed another family's chief, or part of the extended family and that hold a different surname. These smaller septs would then be part of the chief's larger clan. A sept might follow another chief if two families were linked through marriage, or, if a family lived on the land of a powerful laird, they would follow him whether they were related or not. Bonds of manrent were sometimes used to bind lesser chiefs and his followers to more powerful chiefs. According to the \"Oxford Companion to Scottish History\", the MacMartins of Letterfinlay who were a sept of the Clan Cameron would have seen themselves as distinct within their own lands, but would have also seen themselves as Camerons if operating elsewhere outside Lochaber. Bonds of manrent and friendship tied obviously non-related kin groups into a wider military, political, and land/food resource sharing clanship.\n\nToday, sept lists are used by clan societies to recruit new members. Such lists date back to the 19th century, when clan societies and tartan manufacturers attempted to capitalise on the enthusiasm and interest for all things Scottish. Lists were drawn up that linked as many surnames as possible to a particular clan. In this way, individuals without a \"clan name\" could connect to a Scottish clan and thus feel \"entitled\" to its tartan.\n\nOne modern member of the Lyon Court has described the attribution of such names to particular clans as sometimes being based upon nothing but imagination, and in others cases upon a single recorded instance of a surname.\n\nAlso, common surnames, found throughout the British Isles, were linked to particular clans. For example, the surname \"Millar\" / \"Miller\" was made a sept of Clan Macfarlane, and \"Taylor\" of Clan Cameron. Furthermore, patronymic forms of common personal names were also linked to particular clans. This has led to the false impression that many surnames have one origin and are all related to one another, and that such surnames are historically connected to one particular clan.\n\nHistorically, the term \"sept\" was not used in Ireland until the 19th century, long after any notion of clanship had been eradicated. The English word \"sept\" is most accurate in referring to a subgroup within a large clan, particularly when that group has taken up residence outside their clan's original territory (e.g. the O'Neills, MacSweeneys, and O'Connors).\n\nRelated Irish clans often belong to larger groups, dynasties, such as the Dál gCais, Uí Néill, Uí Fiachrach, and Uí Maine.\n\nRecently, Edward MacLysaght suggested the English word \"sept\" be used in place of the word 'clan' with regard to the historical social structure in Ireland, to differentiate it from the centralised Scottish clan system. This would imply that Ireland possessed no formalised clan system, which is not wholly accurate. Brehon Law, the ancient legal system of Ireland clearly defined the clan system in pre-Norman Ireland, with its electoral system limited to the senior sept's members (see derbfine), which collapsed after the Tudor Conquest in the 16th century. The Irish, when speaking of themselves, employed their term \"clan\", which means \"children\" in Irish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19054220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19054220", "title": "Siemens Greek bribery scandal", "text": "Siemens Greek bribery scandal\n\nThe Siemens bribery scandal in Greece is a corruption and bribery scandal in Greece over deals between Siemens AG and Greek government officials during the 2004 Summer Olympic Games in Athens, Greece regarding security systems and purchases by OTE in the 1990s.\n\nAlthough there is no conclusive evidence, the scandal has created a serious change in the attitudes of the Greek public, most notably a dissatisfaction with both main political parties in Greece, New Democracy and Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) and creating a \"hole of authority\" leading to a vicious circle of political instability.\n\nIt has been claimed that the political outcome of the case may be analogous to that of Italy 15 years ago.\n\nIt has been claimed that the bribes may have been up to 100 million Euro. These bribes were allegedly given in order to win state contracts.\n\nIt has been indicated that a few PASOK members acting as individuals may have been involved, although this is simply a claim and nothing has been proven or at least any evidence come to light.\n\nA Greek prosecutor, after two years of investigations, filed charges on 1 July 2008 for money laundering and bribery. It has been claimed that it is certain Siemens divisions that were involved in the transactions. \n\nOn 30 May 2008, a prosecutor's investigation took place at the offices of Kyriakos Mitsotakis for donations and grants by Siemens.\n\nIn 2009, the central figure of the scandal, ex-Siemens chief executive in Greece Michalis Christoforakos, left for Germany to avoid arrest, in obscure conditions involving the foreign minister Dora Bakogianni.\n\nTasos Mantelis, former Minister for Transport and Communications during the PASOK administration in 1998, admitted in May 2010 to a parliamentary investigation committee that the sum of 200,000 German marks was deposited in 1998 in a Swiss bank account from Siemens during his administration, allegedly for funding his election campaign. A further deposit of 250,000 German marks was made into the same bank account in 2000 which Mantelis claims is from an unknown source.\n\nAs of August 2012, the Greek government has signed a settlement with Siemens worth 330 million euros.\n\nThe trial of the persons accused of involvement in the scandal was scheduled to begin on February 24, 2017. A total of 64 individuals are accused, both Greek and German nationals. The central figure of the scandal however, ex-Siemens chief executive in Greece Michalis Christoforakos, against whom European arrest warrants are pending, will likely be absent, as Germany refuses his extradition to this day. Initially arrested in Germany in 2009, the accusations against him by German courts have been dropped. Greece has been demanding his extradition since 2009, and considers him a fugitive from justice. Christoforakos during his trial in Germany testified to has bribed (2%) both the two political parties, ND and PASOK (through Geitonas, Vartholomeos, partners of Kostas Simitis).\n\nIn July 2017, Mantelis was found guilty by Greek courts of bribery and money laundering, receiving an eight-year suspended sentence.\n\nIn October 2017, prosecutor Georgios Voulgaris reiterated the warrant to bring Christoforakos (including five German nationals and ex-Siemens top figures) to trial, making it the third time Greek Justice made this demand.\n\n"}
{"id": "38860895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38860895", "title": "Tariq Ali", "text": "Tariq Ali\n\nTariq Ali (; Punjabi, ; born 21 October 1943) is a British Pakistani writer, journalist, historian, filmmaker, political activist, and public intellectual. He is a member of the editorial committee of the \"New Left Review\" and \"Sin Permiso\", and contributes to \"The Guardian\", \"CounterPunch\", and the \"London Review of Books\". He read PPE at Exeter College, Oxford.\n\nHe is the author of several books, including \"Pakistan: Military Rule or People's Power\" (1970), \"Can Pakistan Survive? The Death of a State\" (1983), \"Clash of Fundamentalisms: Crusades, Jihads and Modernity\" (2002), \"Bush in Babylon\" (2003), \"Conversations with Edward Said\" (2005), \"Pirates Of The Caribbean: Axis Of Hope\" (2006), \"A Banker for All Seasons\" (2007), \"The Duel\" (2008), \"The Obama Syndrome\" (2010), and \"\" (2015).\n\nAli was born and raised in Lahore, Punjab in British India (later part of Pakistan). He is the son of journalist Mazhar Ali Khan and activist mother Tahira Mazhar Ali Khan, who was the daughter of Sir Sikandar Hyat Khan, who led the Unionist Muslim League and was later Prime Minister of the Punjab from 1937 to 1942. Ali's father, Mazhar, had been \"mobilising peasants in his family’s fiefdom\" when he was invited to join the \"Pakistan Times\" by Mian Iftikharuddin, later becoming sympathetic to the Communist cause, although he never joined the party. \n\nAli's father and mother, who were cousins, eloped; his mother later said: \"Mazhar left for the Middle East on military service. I was very pregnant by then. We didn’t see each other for two years. Our son Tariq was born while Mazhar was away. By the time he returned, I had joined the Communist Party. I had given away my entire trousseau, including the family jewels, to the Party.\" \n\nAli first became politically active in his teens, taking part in opposition to the military dictatorship of Pakistan. An uncle who worked in the Pakistani military intelligence warned his parents that Ali could not be protected. His parents therefore decided to get him out of Pakistan and sent him to England to study at Exeter College, Oxford, where he studied Philosophy, Politics, and Economics. He was elected President of the Oxford Union in 1965. In 1967 Ali was one of 64 prominent figures, including the Beatles, who signed a petition calling for the legalisation of marijuana. Ali's tenure at the Union included a meeting with Malcolm X in December 1964 during which Malcolm X expressed deep consternation about his own risk of assassination.\n\nHis public profile began to grow during the Vietnam War, when he engaged in debates against the war with such figures as Henry Kissinger and Michael Stewart. He testified at the Russell Tribunal over US involvement in Vietnam. As time passed, Ali became increasingly critical of American and Israeli foreign policies. He was also a vigorous opponent of American relations with Pakistan that tended to back military dictatorships over democracy. He was one of the marchers on the American embassy in London in 1968 in a demonstration against the Vietnam war.\nActive in the New Left of the 1960s, he has long been associated with the \"New Left Review\". Ali inserted himself into politics through his involvement with \"The Black Dwarf\" newspaper, he joined the International Marxist Group (IMG) in 1968. He was recruited to the leadership of the IMG and became a member of the International Executive Committee of the (reunified) Fourth International. He also befriended influential figures such as Malcolm X, Stokely Carmichael, John Lennon and Yoko Ono.\n\nIn 1967 Ali was in Camiri, Bolivia, not far from where Che Guevara was captured, to observe the trial of Régis Debray. He was accused of being a Cuban revolutionary by authorities. Ali then said: \"If you torture me the whole night and I can speak Spanish in the morning I'll be grateful to you for the rest of my life.\"\n\nDuring this period he was an IMG candidate in Sheffield Attercliffe at the February 1974 general election and was co-author of \"Trotsky for Beginners\", a cartoon book. In 1981, Ali quit the IMG and joined the Labour Party to support Tony Benn in his bid to become deputy leader of the Labour Party.\n\nIn 1990, he published the satire \"Redemption\", on the inability of the Trotskyists to handle the downfall of the Eastern bloc. The book contains parodies of many well-known figures in the Trotskyist movement. In 1999 Ali strongly criticised US and UK interventions in the Balkans in the piece \"Springtime for NATO\".\n\nHis book, \"Clash of Fundamentalisms\", aimed to put the events of the September 11 attacks in historical perspective. He followed that with \"Bush in Babylon\", which criticised the 2003 invasion of Iraq by American president George W. Bush. The book uses poetry and critical essays in portraying the war in Iraq as a failure. Ali believes that the new Iraqi government will fail.\n\nAli has remained a critic of modern neoliberal economics and was present at the 2005 World Social Forum in Porto Alegre, Brazil, where he was one of 19 to sign the Porto Alegre Manifesto. He supports the model of Bolivarian Revolution in Venezuela.\n\nHe has been described as \"the alleged inspiration\" for the Rolling Stones' song \"Street Fighting Man\", recorded in 1968. John Lennon's \"Power to the People\" was inspired by an interview Lennon gave to Ali.\n\nAli has also written in favour of Scottish independence.\n\nDuring the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, 2016, Ali was one of the few figures on the left to support Britain leaving the European Union.\n\nTariq Ali's \"The Leopard and The Fox\", first written as a BBC screenplay in 1985, is about the last days of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto. Never previously produced because of a censorship controversy, it was finally premiered in New York in October 2007, the day before former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto returned to her home country after eight years in exile.\n\nIn 2009, Ali, alongside Mark Weisbrot wrote the screenplay to the Oliver Stone documentary \"South of the Border\". This gave a favourable account of Hugo Chávez and other left-wing Latin American leaders. Interviewed in the documentary, Ali explained the role that Bolivian water privatisation and the 2000 Cochabamba protests played in eventually bringing Evo Morales to power.\n\nAli currently lives in Highgate, north London, with his partner Susan Watkins, editor of the \"New Left Review\". He has three children: Natasha from a previous relationship, and Chengiz and Aisha with Watkins. Growing up in a secular family that was more culturally Muslim rather than religious, today he describes himself as agnostic. \n\n\nList of British Pakistanis\n\n"}
{"id": "57875653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57875653", "title": "The Arya Marriage Validation Act, 1937", "text": "The Arya Marriage Validation Act, 1937\n\nThe Arya Marriage Validation Act, 1937 (Act No. 19 of 1937) is a legislation enacted by the British Government in India during the pre-independence era to recognize inter marriages among Arya Samajis.\nArya Samajis, who formed an appreciable number of Indians, believed that the caste system prevailing in British ruled India was not in consonance with the sacred Shastra and scriptures. British rulers, of course, never tried to interfere with the customary marriage laws prevailing among different sects of the society. However, when people from various sects, who opposed the caste system and fed up with the deteriorating condition of the Hinduism, adopted concept of Arya Samaj and became Arya Samajis. Marriages took place between the Arya Samajis irrespective of the fact that prior to the marriage both the bride and bridegroom belonged to different caste or sub castes other than Hindu. As such they feared that these marriages could be declared invalid solely on the point that the parties before the marriage belonged to different castes between whom marriage was not permissible as per the custom prevailing at that time. \n\nIn order to address such an issue the Select Committee proposed a legislation which was enacted in order to validate all such marriages and recognize the marriage between two Arya Samajis as valid.\n\nSection 2 of the Act was meant to validate all such marriages between Arya Samajis and this is the only substantial provision of the Act:\n\n\"Arya Marriage Validation Act, 1937\"\n"}
{"id": "5467945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5467945", "title": "The Bohemian Girl", "text": "The Bohemian Girl\n\nThe Bohemian Girl is a ballad opera composed by Michael William Balfe with a libretto by Alfred Bunn. The plot is loosely based on a Cervantes tale, \"La Gitanilla\".\n\nThe best-known aria from the piece is \"I Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble Halls\" in which the main character, Arline, describes her vague memories of her childhood. It has been recorded by many artists, most famously by Dame Joan Sutherland, and also by the Norwegian soprano Sissel Kyrkjebø and Irish singer Enya.\n\nThe opera was first produced in London at the Drury Lane Theatre on 27 November 1843. The production ran for more than 100 nights and enjoyed many revivals worldwide including: New York City (25 November 1844), Dublin (1844) and Philadelphia (1844).\n\nSeveral versions in different languages were also staged during Balfe’s lifetime. The German version, \"Die Zigeunerin\", premiered in Vienna in 1846, the Italian adaptation and translation, titled \"La zingara\", was originally staged in Trieste in 1854, and finally a four-act French version, \"La Bohemienne\", was mounted in Rouen in 1862, conducted by composer Jules Massenet, then aged only 20, and with the celebrated mezzo-soprano Celestine Galli-Marie in the role of the Gypsy Queen. If \"Die Zigeunerin\" enjoyed fairly widespread circulation in the countries of German language or culture, \"La zingara\" was often revived also in English-speaking cities, such as London, Dublin, New York, Boston and San Francisco. The very successful 1858 run of \"La zingara\" at Her Majesty's Theatre in London, for which Balfe was rewarded with an extra cheque for fifty pounds, starred Marietta Piccolomini, Marietta Alboni and Antonio Giuglini.\n\nThe opera \"remained in the repertories of British touring companies until the 1930s and was revived in 1932 at Sadler's Wells\". Since World War II, it has been staged by the Belfast Operatic Society at the 1978 Waterford International Festival of Light Opera, in Ireland, by Castleward Opera, Strangford, in Northern Ireland in 2006 and by Opera South, Haslemere, in England in 2008.\n\nA Polish noble, Thaddeus, in exile in Austria, joins a band of gypsies. He saves Arline, the infant daughter of Count Arnheim, from being killed by a deer. The count, in gratitude, invites him to a banquet, where Thaddeus refuses to toast a statue of the Austrian Emperor, instead splashing it with wine, and escapes from his enraged host with the help of his gypsy friend Devilshoof, who kidnaps Arline.\n\nTwelve years have elapsed. Arline can only vaguely remember her noble upbringing. She and Thaddeus are sweethearts, but the Gypsy Queen is also in love with him. Arnheim's nephew Florestein falls in love with Arline (not recognising her), but the Queen plants a medallion stolen from Florestein on Arline. Florestein recognises the medallion and has her arrested. She is tried before the Count who recognises the scar left on her arm from the deer attack.\n\nArline is at a ball in her father's castle, where she feels nostalgic for her Romany upbringing and for her true love. Thaddeus breaks into the castle through a window and pleads for her hand. He eventually wins the trust of the count whom he insulted twelve years ago, and the Count gives them his blessing. The Gypsy Queen stalks Thaddeus to the castle and tries to break in through the same window to kill Arline with a musket and kidnap Thaddeus. Before she can execute her plan, however, Devilshoof tries to wrest the weapon from her hands and she is accidentally killed in the scuffle.\n\nAct 1\n\nAct 2\n\nAct 3\nA silent movie version was made in Britain in 1922. Ellen Terry, much better known as a stage actress, made her last screen appearance as Buda the nursemaid. Ivor Novello plays Thaddeus, Gladys Cooper plays Arline, and C. Aubrey Smith plays Devilshoof.\n\nAn early sound short subject version of the opera was filmed in Britain in 1927, starring Pauline Johnson as Arline and Herbert Langley as Thaddeus.\n\nThe best-known version is undoubtedly the 1936 full-length Laurel and Hardy film, described in the opening credits as \"A Comedy Version of The Bohemian Girl\". The characters played by Laurel and Hardy do not appear in the stage opera, nor does Thaddeus appear in the film.\n\n\"La gitanilla\" itself has been filmed three times, but never in English.\n\n\"The Bohemian Girl\" is mentioned in the short stories \"Clay\" and \"Eveline\" by James Joyce which are both parts of \"Dubliners\". In \"Clay\", the character Maria sings some lines from \"I Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble Halls\". The aria is quoted again in Joyce's novel \"Finnegans Wake\".\n\nBooth Tarkington mentions the opera, though not by name, in \"The Two Vanrevels\", and quotes a line of the aria \"I Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble Halls\".\n\nThe opera is mentioned, and the aria is referred to several times, in the novel \"Dragonwyck\", by Anya Seton, set in 1844. The song also appears in the movie version of the book.\n\nWilla Cather has referenced the work. One of her short stories, entitled \"The Bohemian Girl\", incorporates quotes from some of the arias (again including \"I Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble Halls\"). The plot of the story also has some substantial parallels to the original.\n\nThe aria \"I Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble Halls\" is sung in the film \"The Age of Innocence\". The aria was played and sung by the character Clementina Cavendish in the 1998 film \"The Governess\".\n\nSeveral recordings exist of \"I Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble Halls\"; one is included on Sutherland's compilation disc \"La Stupenda\". Sutherland's husband, conductor Richard Bonynge, recorded a complete version of \"The Bohemian Girl\" with Sutherland and Bonynge's protégée, Nova Thomas, singing the title role. It is one of the only complete recordings of the entire opera and still in print via ArkivMusic.\n\nBalfe: \"The Bohemian Girl\", National Symphony Orchestra of Ireland, RTÉ Philharmonic Choir\n\nArthur Fiedler and the Boston Pops Orchestra recorded the opera's overture for RCA Victor in 1958 for an album titled \"Boston Tea Party\". It was released on LP in stereo, and later reissued on CD.\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "10473021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10473021", "title": "The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith", "text": "The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith\n\nThe Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith is a play by Sir Arthur Wing Pinero. It was first produced on 13 March 1895 at the Garrick Theatre, with Mrs Patrick Campbell playing the lead role of Agnes Ebbsmith. The theme of the play is social radicalism. The title character is a vehement critic of all social conventions, especially marriage, and an advocate of free love.\n\n\nAgnes, a 33-year-old widow, is staying in Venice with Lucas, to whom she is \"not\" married, though the servants and her friend Gertrude have assumed so. Lucas was a rising young Conservative politician who abandoned his wife and career for Agnes. They met when she was sent to Italy to nurse him through a bout of malaria contracted in Rome. She had been married unhappily, and after her husband died became a prominent radical lecturer, and then a nurse to earn a living. Lucas was also unhappy in his marriage and they fell in love. Now they (or at least she) envision a future of writing passionate essays against marriage, lecturing and campaigning.\n\nHis relatives do not accept his decision. His uncle the Duke comes to Venice to \"arrange\" matters. He suggests a sham reconciliation between Lucas and his wife, and for Agnes, \"The suburban villa, the little garden, a couple of discreet servants—everything à la mode.\" Agnes sneers at this, of course, but is horrified to discover that Lucas actually considers it. She reluctantly agrees.\n\nGertrude, though shocked by Agnes' open \"immorality\", has come to appreciate her philosophy. She now urges Agnes to reject this hypocritical arrangement, and instead to come with her and Amos to their home in Yorkshire. Amos also appeals to her, urging her to pray for guidance. Agnes agrees to go with them.\n\nLucas now rejects the Duke's proposal, and the Duke asks Gertrude and Amos to stop interfering.\n\nSybil Lucas now appears. She confronts Agnes, and—bizarrely—asks her to return to Lucas and get him to return to London. She despises Lucas, but she loved him once, and doesn't want to see him \"utterly wasted\". Also (though this is unspoken) an apparent reconciliation would relieve her of a great humiliation. This even though \"he\" made \"her\" as miserable as Agnes' husband did her. Agnes breaks down and agrees. But then Gertrude intervenes: this path will corrupt and destroy Agnes.\n\nSybil now breaks down and repudiates the deal.\n\nLucas makes a last effort to join with Agnes, and resume their \"free love\" life, but Agnes has had it; she thought she was a leader, a moral example, who would show the world \"how men and woman may live independent and noble lives without rule, guidance or sacrament\", but she proved weak and corruptible. And she can't sit in judgment of Sybil any longer; she will go with Amos and Gertrude, and she urges Lucas to learn to pray.\n\nThe chief theme in the play is criticism of conventional social institutions, primarily marriage: \"the choked-up, seething pit\", \"the right to destroy years and years of life\". Agnes justifies her adulterous \"Free Union\" arrangement with Lucas by telling of her miserable marriage, and by dismissing Sybil as \"the shrew, the termagant he has now fled from...\" She upbraids the Duke for his hypocrisy in marrying a wealthy woman to maintain his position while continuing his debauchery with other women. Gertrude confesses that her late husband made her unhappy, and that she was in love with another man (who is also dead). Sybil tells of her unhappiness with Lucas.\n\nAgnes also upbraids the Duke for his life of unearned luxury, while the masses starve and toil.\n\nBut in addition, Agnes is hostile to traditional social conventions. She doesn't want to be \"pretty\", she is offended when Lucas buys her an elegant gown, and she is disgusted when Lucas waxes conventionally poetical about their future life as \"not\" public radicals.\n\nHowever, the play also, more subtly, attacks the conventions of the radicalism of the time. The \"Free Union\" between Lucas and Agnes collapses. Even before the Duke proposes the \"reconciliation\", Lucas has already decided that he and Agnes should not become professional radicals as she had planned. Sybil shows that he is as much to blame for their estrangement as she is. The Duke reveals Lucas as \"in morals - an epicure\"; that is, a playboy posing as a reformer.\n\nAgnes, in the end, abandons radicalism for at least a while, and turns to religion. Gertrude and Amos are the figures who are not exposed or condemned.\n\nIn 2014, London-based production company Primavera Productions presented the first ever revival of the play at the Jermyn Street Theatre. Rhiannon Sommers played Agnes Ebbsmith and Christopher Ravenscroft played the Duke of St Olpherts, with Max Hutchinson as Lucas Cleeve. Abbey Wright directed the revival.\n\nE-text at Project Gutenberg \n"}
{"id": "1765090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1765090", "title": "The Sex Party", "text": "The Sex Party\n\nThe Sex Party was a political party based in British Columbia, Canada. The party was guided by the philosophy of the sex-positive movement. Among other points, the party advocated for reform of sex education in schools so that sexual issues are taught more gradually over time and included a more comprehensive coverage of them. They advocated for the repeal of laws that promote antisexualism, such as prostitution laws and censorship. They also supported making Valentine's Day a statutory holiday and renaming Victoria Day to Eros Day.\n\nThe Sex Party was active for nearly eight years, between March 2005 and December 2012 when it de-registered with Elections BC. Its leader was John Ince, a Vancouver lawyer, author of \"The Politics of Lust\" and small business owner. He was one of three candidates representing The Sex Party in the May 2005 provincial election and one of the party's three candidates in the 2009 provincial election. None of its candidates won an election. The party attempted to become active in the 2006 federal election but encountered resistance from Canada Post, which refused to distribute its election material. The Sex Party challenged the Canada Post decision in federal court. The judgement found that Canada Post was within its rights to reasonably restrict (within that specific ad-mail program) material that was sexually explicit but that its application to the party's election material was improper. The court then ordered Canada Post to re-write its policy regarding sexually explicit material in that program.\n\nThe Sex Party was guided by the philosophy of sex-positivism. While the party did not maintain a full slate of policy positions, both its federal and provincial election platforms have three goals: reform of how sex education is taught, \"repeal sex-negative laws and regulations, and support sex-positive community\". Regarding education the party advocated for a restructuring of sex education in public schools so that it is taught gradually, rather than all in one class, and would include other aspects of human sexuality, like non-coital contact, emotional intimacy, and LGBT issues. The Sex Party wanted provincial funding directed at research into sexuality policy issues and an expansion University of British Columbia's Critical Studies in Sexuality program into an entire department. Regarding sex-negative laws, The Sex Party wanted to work towards undoing legislation and regulations that support antisexualism. This included legalizing prostitution, starting a Sex Worker Empowerment Program to counsel and educate sex workers, reserving areas on public parks and beaches for nudists, allowing for sexually explicit private gatherings, (uncensored) films, and entertainment, and repealing provisions that allow municipalities to prohibit the sale of sex toys. Regarding sex-positive community issues, The Sex Party wanted to enable residents of long term care facilities to express their sexuality in a safe, respectful and dignified manner, create a Sex Positive Press Council to expose and remove censorship, make Valentines Day a statutory holiday, and rename Victoria Day to Eros Day.\n\nThe Sex Party was registered with Elections BC in March 2005 with its founder, John Ince, also acting as the party leader. Ince was a Vancouver lawyer, author and co-owner of a store that hosted educational seminars and artistic shows about human sexuality, as well as selling sex-themed merchandise. He had been critical of government laws that perpetuated or resulted in harmful attitudes towards sex-related issues. Ince previously authored a non-fiction book, \"The Politics of Lust\", which addresses the impact of antisexual attitudes or erotophobia on a society's political organization. The party launched its election platform and candidates at a press conference at the Vancouver Public Library in April.\n\nThe party nominated three candidates in the May 17, 2005 provincial election, none of whom were elected:\n\nPrior to the election, the party held a fundraiser which featured erotic art meant to illustrate political themes and a performance piece involving couples having sex behind a screen, erotic poetry, and body painting. After employees of the Liquor Control and Licensing Branch told Ince that the art installation would likely result in the refusal of a special event liquor licence, the party asked for judicial review. Both a provincial court and an appeal court refused the review because an actual application had not been submitted for a decision to be reviewed, and the fundraiser went ahead with the serving of alcohol.\n\nThe party intended to participate in the 2006 federal election. They prepared a pamphlet and sent it to Canada Post to deliver via their Unaddressed Admail Program. The Canada Post employees rejected the pamphlet because their policy document, the Unaddressed Admail Customer Guide, allowed them to refuse to deliver sexually explicit material. The four-page pamphlet had several images depicting people in the nude and objects shaped like human body parts, and because the pamphlet also contained the party's election platform, they complained that Canada Post was violating its directive to be politically impartial. The Sex Party objected to the refusal by filing a lawsuit against Canada Post saying the organization violated their right to freedom of expression. The Federal Court of Canada ruled that the \"sexually explicit material\" phrase used in the Canada Post policy document was undefined and too vague to be arbitrarily applied to any particular pamphlet. The Court found that their freedom of expression was reasonably restricted, and not prohibited, as Canada Post did offer alternative means of distribution. The judgement, which was delivered in January 2008, ordered Canada Post to rewrite its policy regarding sexually explicit material.\n\nThe party nominated three candidates in the May 2009 provincial election, none of whom were elected:\n\nIn the 2005 provincial election the party had three candidates. John Ince stood in the Vancouver-Burrard riding but got only 111 votes (0.39%), losing to the incumbent BC Liberal Lorne Mayencourt. In Vancouver-Fairview, The Sex Party candidate was Patrick Clark who received 121 votes (0.43%), losing to the BC NDP candidate Gregor Robertson. In Vancouver-Kingsway, their candidate was Yvonne Tink, who received 73 votes (0.37%), losing to the NDP candidate Adrian Dix.\n\nIn the 2009 provincial election, the party nominated candidates in three ridings. John Ince stood in the Vancouver-Point Grey riding but got only 130 votes (0.56%), coming in last place, losing to BC Liberal leader and Premier Gordon Campbell. In Vancouver-Hastings, The Sex Party candidate was Dietrich Pajonk. He came in last with 99 votes (0.51%), losing to the incumbent NDP candidate Shane Simpson. In Vancouver-West End, their candidate was the operator of an escort business, Scarlett Lake, who received 90 votes (0.51%), losing to the NDP candidate Spencer Chandra Herbert.\n\nIn the 2005 provincial election, the party reported $1,283 in general election expenditures, while all three candidates reported $100 each in expenditures.\n\nIn 2009 provincial election the party reported $750 in general election expenditures. Dietrich Pajonk reported spending $269, while John Ince and Scarlett Lake each reported $250. The party de-registered with Elections BC effective December 21, 2012, five months prior to the 2013 provincial election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41793576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41793576", "title": "Urhobo-Isoko", "text": "Urhobo-Isoko\n\nAccording to the language family tree classification by Ethnologue, Okpe, Urhobo and Uvwie, alongside Eruwa and Isoko, make up the five Southwestern Edoid languages of the Benue-Congo group. Quoting Johnstone (1993), Ethnologue puts the population of Urhobo people at 546,000, Okpe 25,400 (2000) and Uvwie 19,800 (2000). These three languages have geographically neighbouring languages: Izon and Itsekiri to the west and south, Ukwuani and Isoko to the east and Edo to the north. Thus, Isoko and Urhobo are similar languages that belong to the same linguistic family.\n\nThere is literature for both the Urhobo and Isoko languages. There are Bibles and Christian hymn books for both languages. There are also dictionaries for Urhobo, written by Ukere, Osubele, Juliua Arerierian and Akpobome Diffre-Odiete. While all the former ones are bilingual, the last one by Diffre-Odiete is a multilingual dictionary of English, Okpe, Urhobo and Uvwie, with over 900 entries in the four languages.\n\nOkpe (ISO 639 – 3:oke), Urhobo (ISO 639 – 3:urh) and Uvwie (ISO 639 – 3:evh) are three diverse languages spoken in an area belonging to one and the same ethnic group called the Urhobo people of Delta State in southern Nigeria, Africa. The Urhobo ethnic nation is culturally united, but it comprises twenty-four political clans or kingdoms. Okpe is spoken in only one kingdom (the largest in Urhoboland). Uvwie is spoken in two kingdoms, while Urhobo is spoken, with dialectical varieties, in the remaining twenty-one kingdoms. The Agbarho dialect is the accepted standard of written Urhobo for all twenty-four kingdoms. The Okpe and Uvwie clans view their languages as distinct languages and not as dialects of Urhobo. However, in their communication with people of other Urhobo clans, they use Urhobo, English or Nigerian Pidgin.\n\nOkpe and Uvwie speakers have been protesting the dominance of Urhobo-speaking clans over them. As such, they have gone beyond linguistic self-preservation to seeking politico-cultural alienation from other Urhobo clans. Therefore, people of the other twenty-one Urhobo–speaking clans view these activities as a threat to the historical and cultural unity of the ethnic nation.\n\nPrevious research shows that the three languages of the Urhobo people are endangered to various degrees. Urhobo is only seriously endangered by the impact of Nigerian Pidgin and English in communication. Macaulay Mowarin (2005) notes that Uvwie is the most endangered of the trio, facing serious impact in the urban and rural areas from Nigerian Pidgin, Urhobo and English. Okpe is seriously endangered in Sapele, the major Okpe town because of the impact of Nigerian Pidgin, Itsekiri, and Urhobo. In the rural areas, Okpe is endangered too, mainly from Itsekiri and Urhobo impact.\n\nThere are several factors responsible for the gradual loss of the three languages. The contact between the three languages on the one hand, and with other neighbouring languages on the other, have greatly impacted the trio, especially Uvwie. Generally, the language of communication is English among literate people and Nigerian Pidgin among illiterates and semi-literates of Urhobo and neighbouring communities. This is the case in all spheres of activities, except in annual or periodical traditional religious rites or elders' and chiefs' meetings, especially in rural areas. Okpe, Urhobo and Uvwie are also spoken in some rural homes, markets and Orthodox Church services.\n\nMoreover, the non-implementation of the National Policy on Education continues to cause negative effect on language acquisition by newer generations of the Urhobo people. The policy which states that the language of instruction for the first three years of education should be the pupils' mother tongue or language of the school's host community has been largely ignored. Fines and other punishments are usually imposed on pupils and students who speak their native languages during school hours in both public and private schools across Delta State. This is to encourage the use of English as a lingua franca. English is made a core subject in order to graduate from secondary school and to gain admission to higher institutions.\n\nIntermarriages between native speakers and people of other language communities also affect intergenerational transfer of the languages, and thus children are raised with English. The impact of English on these native languages has spread to rural areas, especially among the youth and children who communicate in Pidgin and English because of the negative psychological effect of being regarded as primitive if they speak their native language in public.\nFinally, the adoption of Agbarho dialect as the only acceptable form of written Urhobo has led to the non-documentation of Okpe and Uvwie languages as well as other dialects of Urhobo. \n\nArerierian, Julius I. \"Ofotẹeta rẹ Urhobo: Dikshọnari rẹ Urhobo\". Kwale: SSB Press, 2008.\n\nAziza, Rose. “Urhobo Morphology” in \"Basic Linguistics for Nigerian Languages Teachers\". Ọre Yusuf (ed.). Aba: Linguistics Association of Nigeria, 2007.\n\nAziza, Rose. “Urhobo Phonology” in \"Basic Linguistics for Nigerian Languages Teachers\". Ọre Yusuf (ed.). Aba: Linguistics Association of Nigeria, 2007.\n\nAziza, Rose. “Urhobo Syntax” in \"Basic Linguistics for Nigerian Languages Teachers\". Ọre Yusuf (ed.). Aba: Linguistics Association of Nigeria, 2007.\n\nAziza, Rose. \"Urhobo Tone System\". PhD Thesis, University of Ibadan, 1997.\n\nDiffre-Odiete, Akpobome. A Wordlist of Noun and Verb Groups in English-Urhobo-Uvwie-Okpe. Effurun: BISON Books, 2014. \n\"Baibol Ọfuafon Na\". Lagos: Bible Society of Nigeria, 1970.\n\nMowarin, Macaulay. “Language Endangerment in Urhoboland” in \"Studies in Urhobo Culture\". Peter P. Ekeh (ed.). Buffalo, NY.: Urhobo Historical Society, 2005.\n\nOjaide. Tanure and Rose Aziza (eds.). \"The Urhobo Language Today\". Lagos: Malthouse Press, 2007.\n\nOjaide, Tanure and S. S. Ugheteni. \"Yono Urhobo\". Lagos: Macmillan, 1983.\n\nOjaide, Tanure. \"Poetry, Performance and Art: Udje Dance Songs of the Urhobo People\". Durham, NC.:Carolina Academic Press, 2003.\n\nOsubele, Ayemenokpe. \"A Dictionary of Urhobo Language\". Warri: Dove Publishers, 2001.\n\nUkere, Anthony O. \"Urhobo-English Dictionary\". n.p. n.p. 1990.\n"}
{"id": "2280656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280656", "title": "Wovea people", "text": "Wovea people\n\nThe Wovea are an ethnic group native to coastal areas of the Fako division of the Southwest Province of Cameroon. The Wovea are one of the ethnic groups that comprise the Sawa, or Cameroonian coastal peoples.\n\nWovea oral history names a man from the island of Bioko as their forebear. His ship washed ashore at Mboko, the area Southwest of Mount Cameroon, where he married a local woman. They then moved southeast and settled at Ambas Bay. The Wovea likely lived along Ambas Bay in the 17th or 18th century, and they could have participated in the same migration from Mboko that brought the Bakweri and Isubu to their current territories.\n\nDuring the 16th and 17th centuries, the Wovea came under the dominance of the Isubu. When the Spanish ousted Protestant missionaries from their base at Fernando Po (modern Bioko) in 1858, the Isubu king, William I of Bimbia, sold part of Wovea territory to British missionary Alfred Saker. The area became Victoria (today known as Limbe), and the Wovea living there were forced to move to Mondole Island. Victoria came to be a mixture of freed slaves, working Sawa, and Christianised Sawa from all the various coastal groups. Cameroonian Pidgin English began to develop at this time.\n\nIn 1905, under German colonial rule, the Wovea were relocated once again to their present home west of the Wouri estuary when Mondole Island became a leper colony. After Germany's defeat in World War I, Wovea territory fell under a British League of Nations mandate.\n\nThe Wovea live south of Mount Cameroon and on the Gulf of Guinea, in the Fako division of the Southwest Province. Their territory lies directly west of that of the Isubu. Fishing is a major form of employment and subsistence.\n\nBobea is the Wovea language. The language had 600 speakers in 1977, although many Wovea speak Duala in lieu of their native tongue. In addition, most Wovea speak Cameroonian Pidgin English or standard English. A growing number of the Anglophones today grow up with Pidgin as their first tongue.\n\nThe Wovea have been mostly Christianized since the 1970s. Evangelical denominations dominate, particularly the Baptist church.\n\nThe Wovea participate in the Ngondo, a traditional festival of the Duala to which all of Cameroon's coastal Sawa peoples are invited.The main focus is on communicating with the ancestors and asking them for guidance and protection for the future. The festivities also include armed combat, beauty pageants, pirogue races, and traditional wrestling.\n\nThe Wovea are Bantu in language and origin. More narrowly, they fall into the Sawa, or the coastal peoples of Cameroon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14985085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14985085", "title": "Yakoma people", "text": "Yakoma people\n\nYakoma are an ethnic group in the Central African Republic (CAR) who make up 4% of the population of the country. 10,000 also reside in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nThey gave their name to the city of Yakoma at the confluence of the Welle and Mbobou rivers and provided the land for the French post at les Abiras which served as the first capital of Ubangi-Shari, the predecessor of the present-day CAR. The Yakoma are Bantu but speak a distinct dialect (also known as Yakoma) similar to Sango.\n\nAndré-Dieudonné Kolingba, president of the CAR from 1979 to 1993, was a member of this group, as is the writer Adrienne Yabouza.\n"}
