{"id": "34471353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34471353", "title": "Amrit", "text": "Amrit\n\nAmrit (), the classical Marathus (, \"Marathos\"), was a Phoenician port located near present-day Tartus in Syria. Founded in the third millenniumBC, Marat (, ) was the northernmost important city of ancient Phoenicia and a rival of nearby Arwad. During the 2ndcenturyBC, Amrit was defeated and its site largely abandoned, leaving its ruins well preserved and without extensive remodeling by later generations.\n\nThe city lies on the Mediterranean coast around south of modern-day Tartus. Two rivers cross the city: Nahr Amrit, near the main temple, and Nahr al-Kuble near the secondary temple, a fact that might be linked to the importance of water in the religious traditions in Amrit. The city was probably founded by the Arvadites, and served as their continental base. It grew to be one of the wealthiest towns in the dominion of Arwad. The city surrendered, along with Arwad, to Alexander the Great in 333 BC. During Seleucid times the town, known as Marathus, was probably larger and more prosperous than Arwad. In 219 BC Amrit gained independence from Arwad, and was later sacked by forces from the latter city in 148 BC.\n\nExcavations of the site principally began in 1860 by Ernest Renan. Excavations were again carried out in 1954 by French archaeologist Maurice Dunand. Ceramic ware finds at Amrit indicated the site had been inhabited as early as the third millennium BC. Middle and Late Bronze Age \"silo tombs\" were also excavated, with contents ranging from weapons to original human remains. Excavations at the necropolis south of the town yielded several tomb structures. The funeral art found in some tombs with pyramidal-or cube-shaped towers, is considered some of \"the most notable grave-monuments of the Phoenician world.\" Excavations also uncovered the town's ancient harbor, and a U-shaped stadium that dates back to the 4th and 3rd centuries BC and measures around in length.\n\nOne of the most important excavations at Amrit was the Phoenician temple, commonly referred to the \"\"ma'abed\",\" dedicated to the god Melqart of Tyre and Eshmun. The colonnaded temple, excavated between 1955 and 1957, consists of a large court cut out of rock measuring and over deep, surrounded by a covered portico. In the center of the court a well-preserved cube-shaped \"cella\" stands. The open-air courtyard was filled with the waters of a local, traditionally sacred spring, a unique feature of this site. The temple—which was dated to the late 4th century BC, a period following the Persian expansion into Syria—shows major Achaemenid influence in its layout and decoration. According to Dutch archaeologist, Peter Akkermans, the temple is the \"best-preserved monumental structure from the Phoenician homeland.\"\n\nA second temple, described by visitors to the site in 1743 and 1860 and thought to have disappeared, was later discovered by the Syrian archaeological mission near the Nahr al-Kuble spring.\n\nAbout northeast of the main temples of ancient Marathos and north of the Amrit Tell are the remains of a rock-carved Phoenician stadium. It is separated from the other two archaeological sites by the \"Nahr al-Amrit\" and a site called by the locals\" al-Meqla\" '(the quarry'). The Stadium of Amrit was first described in 1745 by Richard Pococke in Part 2 of his book,\" A Description of the East, and Some Other Countries\", as the site where an ancient Circus was held. Ernest Renan examined it in 1860 and discussed it in his book \"Mission de Phénicie\", making the conclusion that the complex was not Roman in its entirety and that the stadium was undoubtedly Phoenician. The stadium is about 225 to 230 meters long and 30 to 40 meters wide, it has similar dimensions to the stadium of Olympia in Greece (213 × 31/32 meters). Seven rows of seats have been partially preserved. The stadium was open to the west and had two entrances on the east side between seats. In addition, there was a tunnel to the interior. The stadium is located approximately at a right angle to the main temple of Amrit, the \"Maabed\". The temples to the north and west have open sides or which the stadium forms a common intersection. It is believed that the Amrit stadium was the location for sacred competitions where anointing and funeral games took place. Labib Boutros, former director of athletics at the American University of Beirut has conducted recent studies of the stadium and suggested that its construction may date back as far as 1500 BC, saying that the Amrit stadium was \"devoted to sports in Phoenicia several centuries before the Olympic Games\".\n\nThe Necropolis in the south of Amrit consists of underground burial chambers and two distinguishing burial towers called by the locals \"al Maghazil\" or The Spindles that stand up to high. The larger tower is composed of a square stone base with a slightly upward tapering cylindrical block with a base diameter of , rising to a pyramid as a top termination, which is badly damaged. The second is approximately 12 meters southeast and is not quite tall. At its base are three cylindrical parts whose diameters decrease and terminate in a dome. At the lower cylinder, to the corners of the square base plates, four lions decorate the building, which may not have been completed. Excavations of the burial chambers east of the towers has uncovered finds dated back as far as the 5th century BC. Plain limestone and clay sarcophagus were found arranged in cassette-like formation within the chambers. Other tombs are located south of the Nahr al-Qubli, the \"al-Burǧ Bazzāq\" or Worm tower, a phenomenal structure that was originally 19.50 meters high and the Hypogeum \"Ḥaǧar al-Ḥublā\" with three burial chambers, which were still used in Roman times.\n\nAmrit was included on the 2004 and 2006 World Monuments Fund watch lists of endangered archaeological sites. The Fund called attention to the site's rapid deterioration due to vandalism and encroaching development. In 2006 a three-day workshop was organized with participation from the UNESCO, Directorate-General of Antiquities and Museums of Syria and local administrators responsible for the sites of Amrit, Tartus and Arwad.\n\n"}
{"id": "14741894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14741894", "title": "Amulek", "text": "Amulek\n\nAmulek () is a key figure in the Book of Alma, a book of the Book of Mormon.\n\nAccording to Alma, chapters 8-14, Amulek, in 82 B.C., accompanied the prophet Alma the Younger on a mission to the wicked city of Ammonihah, where he preached the Gospel and contended with the smooth-talking lawyer (and future convert) Zeezrom. There, he witnessed righteous women and children being burned alive along with their scriptures. Amulek pleaded unsuccessfully for Alma to use Divine power to save the victims from the flames; Alma assured his companion that the innocent would be received by God and that the wicked would face their judgment \"at the last day.\" Amulek and Alma were later bound and imprisoned, but broke from their bonds through the power of faith, causing the prison walls to crumble, slaying their captors.\n\nOn a later mission to the Zoramites, Amulek delivered a sermon on prayer and the urgency of repentance.\n\nIn the Book of Ether, the author recalls \"the faith of Alma and Amulek that caused the prison to tumble to the earth.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25534576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25534576", "title": "Anti-clericalism in Latin America", "text": "Anti-clericalism in Latin America\n\nAnti-clericalism in Latin America sprang up in opposition to the power and influence of the Catholic Church in colonial and post-colonial Latin America.\n\nOf the population of Latin America, now well in excess of 300 million, over 90% acknowledge allegiance to the Catholic Church. Consequently, over a third of the world's Catholics inhabit the ‘Latin’ countries of South, Central and North America.\n\nFor most of the history of post-colonial Latin America, religious rights have been regularly violated, and even now, tensions and conflict in the area of religion remain. Religious human rights, in the sense of freedom to exercise and practice one's religion, are almost universally guaranteed in the laws and constitutions of Latin America today, although they are not universally observed in practice. Moreover, it has taken Latin America much longer than other parts of the West to adopt religious freedom in theory and in practice, and the habit of respect for those rights is only gradually being developed.\n\nThe slowness to embrace religious freedom in Latin America is related to its colonial heritage and to its post-colonial history. The Aztec and the Inca both made substantial use of religion to support their authority and power. This pre-existing role of religion in pre-Columbian culture made it relatively easy for the Spanish conquistadors to replace native religious structures with those of a Catholicism that was closely linked to the Spanish throne.\n\nThe Spanish colonization of the Americas resulted in the forcible conversion of the native population in some cases and the attempted elimination of their culture and religion.\n\nThe various countries that make up Latin America today won political independence during the 19th century. The basic anticlericalism of the republican movements led to a temporary alienation between church and state, but the 20th century has seen political powers seek to harness the continuing popular influence of the church in support of authoritarian regimes, including military dictatorships.\n\nBy the 18th century, the intellectual standards, economic power and social influence of the Jesuits was unmatched. Their economic power derived from enormous plantations in the central valley of Chile, ranches in the River Plate region and large urban and rural estates in Peru and Mexico. There were Jesuit-owned workshops in Paraguay, Peru and Ecuador, and mining interests in the Chaco area of New Granada, now Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela and Panama.\n\nAnti-clericalism was an integral feature of 19th-century liberalism in Latin America. This anti-clericalism was based on the idea that the clergy (especially the prelates who ran the administrative offices of the Church) were hindering social progress in areas such as public education and economic development. The Catholic Church was one of the largest land owning groups in most of Latin America's countries. As a result, the Church tended to be rather conservative politically.\n\nBeginning in the 1820s, a succession of liberal regimes came to power in Latin America. Some members of these liberal regimes sought to imitate the Spain of the 1830s (and revolutionary France of a half-century earlier) in expropriating the wealth of the Catholic Church, and in imitating the 18th-century benevolent despots in restricting or prohibiting the religious orders. As a result, a number of these liberal regimes expropriated Church property and tried to bring education, marriage and burial under secular authority. The confiscation of Church properties and changes in the scope of religious liberties (in general, increasing the rights of non-Catholics and non-observant Catholics, while licensing or prohibiting the orders) generally accompanied secularist, and later, Marxist-leaning, governmental reforms.\n\nThe Mexican Constitution of 1824 had required the Republic to prohibit the exercise of any religion other the Roman Catholic and Apostolic faith.\n\nStarting in 1855, US-backed President Benito Juárez issued decrees nationalizing church property, separating church and state, and suppressing religious orders. Church properties were confiscated and basic civil and political rights were denied to religious orders and the clergy. The Church supported the regime of Juárez's successor, Porfirio Diaz, who was opposed to land reform.\n\nThe first of the Liberal Reform Laws were passed in 1855. The Juárez Law, named after Benito Juárez, restricted clerical privileges, specifically the authority of Church courts, by subverting their authority to civil law. It was conceived of as a moderate measure, rather than abolish church courts altogether. However, the move opened latent divisions in the country. Archbishop Lázaro de la Garza in Mexico City condemned the Law as an attack on the Church itself, and clerics went into rebellion in the city of Puebla in 1855-56. Other laws attacked the privileges traditionally enjoyed by the military, which was significant since the military had been instrumental in putting and keeping Mexican governments in office since Emperor Agustín de Iturbide in the 1820s.\n\nThe next Reform Law was called the lerdo law, after Miguel Lerdo de Tejada. Under this new law, the government began to confiscate Church land. This proved to be considerably more controversial than the Juárez Law. The purpose of the law was to convert lands held by corporate entities such as the Church into private property, favoring those who already lived on it. It was thought that such would encourage development and the government could raise revenue by taxing the process. Lerdo de Tejada was the Minister of Finance and required that the Church sell much of its urban and rural land at reduced prices. If the Church did not comply, the government would hold public auctions. The Law also stated that the Church could not gain possession of properties in the future. However, the Lerdo Law did not apply only to the Church. It stated that no corporate body could own land. Broadly defined, this would include ejidos, or communal land owned by Indian villages. Initially, these ejidos were exempt from the law, but eventually these Indian communities suffered and extensive loss of land.\n\nBy 1857, additional anti-clerical legislation, such as the Iglesias Law (named after José María Iglesias) regulated the collection of clerical fees from the poor and prohibited clerics from charging for baptisms, marriages, or funeral services. Marriage became a civil contract, although no provision for divorce was authorized. Registry of births, marriages and deaths became a civil affair, with President Benito Juárez registering his newly-born son in Veracruz. The number of religious holidays was reduced and several holidays to commemorate national events introduced. Religious celebrations outside churches was forbidden, use of church bells restricted and clerical dress was prohibited in public.\n\nOne other significant Reform Law was the Law for the Nationalization of Ecclesiastical Properties, which would eventually secularize nearly all of the country’s monasteries and convents. The government had hoped that this law would bring in enough revenue to secure a loan from the United States but sales would prove disappointing from the time it was passed all the way to the early 20th century.\n\nMore severe laws called Calles Law during the rule of atheist Plutarco Elías Calles eventually led to the Cristero War.\n\nFollowing the revolution of 1910, the new Mexican Constitution of 1917 contained further anti-clerical provisions. Article 3 called for secular education in the schools and prohibited the Church from engaging in primary education; Article 5 outlawed monastic orders; Article 24 forbade public worship outside the confines of churches; and Article 27 placed restrictions on the right of religious organizations to hold property. Most obnoxious to Catholics was Article 130, which deprived clergy members of basic political rights. Many of these laws were resisted, leading to the Cristero Rebellion of 1927 - 1929. The suppression of the Church included the closing of many churches and the killing and forced marriage of priests. The persecution was most severe in Tabasco under the atheist governor Tomás Garrido Canabal.\n\nThe effects of the war on the Church were profound. Between 1926 and 1934 at least 40 priests were killed. Between 1926 and 1934, over 3,000 priests were exiled or assassinated. In an effort to prove that \"God would not defend the Church\", Calles ordered \"hideous desecration of churches ... there were parodies of (church) services, nuns were raped and any priests captured ... were shot ...\". Calles was eventually deposed and despite the persecution, the Church in Mexico continued to grow. A 2000 census reported that 88 percent of Mexicans identify as Catholic.\n\nWhere there were 4,500 priests serving the people before the rebellion, in 1934 there were only 334 priests licensed by the government to serve fifteen million people, the rest having been eliminated by emigration, expulsion and assassination. It appears that ten states were left without any priests.\n\nThe tension between civilian and clerical authority dominated Ecuador's history for much of the 19th and early 20th centuries. This issue was one of the bases for the lasting dispute between Conservatives, who represented primarily the interests of the land owners of the central highlandscentral highlands and the church, and the Liberals, who represented the interest of the urban elites and merchant class of the Costa and anticlericalism.\n\nDuring the Liberal rule period from 1895 to 1925 two constitutions were issued, those of 1897 and 1906. The first, promulgated by General José Eloy Alfaro Delgado, banned religious orders (including cloisters), abolished certain privileges of the Catholic Church, and reduced voting age to eighteen (vote was a men right only). The constitution of 1925 provided unprecedented protection of civil and political rights and guarantees, including abolition of the death penalty, individual freedoms, and prohibited imprisonment for debts. It also established the separation of the church and state.\n\nAlthough Colombia enacted anticlerical legislation and its enforcement during more than three decades (1849–84), it soon restored “full liberty and independence from the civil power” to the Catholic Church.\n\nLa Violencia refers to an era of civil conflict in various areas of the Colombian countryside between supporters of the Colombian Liberal Party and the Colombian Conservative Party, a conflict which took place roughly from 1948 to 1958.\n\nAcross the country, militants attacked churches, convents, and monasteries, killing priests and looking for arms, since the conspiracy theory maintained that the religious had guns, and this despite the fact that not a single serviceable weapon was located in the raids.\n\nWhen their party came to power in 1930, anticlerical Liberals pushed for legislation to end Church influence in public schools. These Liberals held that the Church and its intellectual backwardness were responsible for a lack of spiritual and material progress in Colombia. Liberal-controlled local, departmental and national governments ended contracts with religious communities who operated schools in government-owned buildings, and set up secular schools in their place. These actions were sometimes violent, and were met by a strong opposition from clerics, Conservatives, and even a good number of more moderate Liberals.\n\nThe original Argentine Constitution of 1853 provided that all Argentine presidents must be Catholic and stated that the duty of the Argentine congress was to convert the Indians to Catholicism. All of these provisions have been eliminated with the exception of the mandate to \"sustain\" Catholicism.\n\nLiberal anti-clericalists of the 1880s established a new pattern of church-state relations in which the official constitutional status of the Church was preserved while the state assumed control of many functions formerly the province of the Church. Conservative Catholics, asserting their role as definers of national values and morality, responded in part by joining in the rightist religio-political movement known as Catholic Nationalism which formed successive opposition parties. This began a prolonged period of conflict between church and state that persisted until the 1940s when the Church enjoyed a restoration of its former status under the presidency of Colonel Juan Perón. Perón claimed that Peronism was the \"true embodiment of Catholic social teaching\" - indeed, more the embodiment of Catholicism than the Catholic Church itself.\n\nIn 1954, Perón reversed the fortunes of the church by threatening total disestablishment and retracting critical functions, including the teaching of religious education in public schools. As a result, Argentina saw extensive destruction of churches, denunciations of clergy and confiscation of Catholic schools as Perón attempted to extend state control over national institutions.\n\nThe renewed rupture in church-state relations was completed when Perón was excommunicated. However, in 1955, overthrown by a military general who was a leading member of the Catholic Nationalist movement.\n\nIn 1983, the civilian president, Raúl Alfonsín, attempted to restore a liberal democratic state. Alfonsín's opposition to the church-military alliance, conjoined with his strongly secular emphasis contravening traditional Catholic positions, incited opposition that served to curtail his agenda.\n\nIn Venezuela, the government of Antonio Guzmán Blanco virtually crushed the institutional life of the church, even attempting to legalize the marriage of priests. These anticlerical policies remained in force for decades afterward.\n\nCuba, under atheist Fidel Castro, succeeded in reducing the Church's ability to work by deporting the archbishop and 150 Spanish priests, discriminating against Catholics in public life and education and refusing to accept them as members of the Communist Party. The subsequent flight of 300,000 people from the island also helped to diminish the Church there.\n\n"}
{"id": "82562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82562", "title": "Ascanius", "text": "Ascanius\n\nAscanius (; Ancient Greek: Ἀσκάνιος) (said to have reigned 1176-1138 BC) a legendary king of Alba Longa and is the son of the Trojan hero Aeneas and either Creusa, daughter of Priam, or Lavinia, daughter of Latinus. He is a character in Roman mythology, and has a divine lineage, being the son of Aeneas, who is the son of the goddess Venus and the hero Anchises, a relative of the king Priam; thus Ascanius has divine ascendents by both parents, being descendant of god Jupiter, his wife Juno and Dardanus. He is also an ancestor of Romulus, Remus and the Gens Julia. Together with his father, he is a major character in Virgil's \"Aeneid\", and he is depicted as one of the founders of the Roman race.\n\nIn Greek and Roman mythology, Ascanius was the son of the Trojan prince Aeneas and Creusa, daughter of Priam. After the Trojan War, as the city burned, Aeneas escaped to Latium in Italy, taking his father Anchises and his child Ascanius with him, though Creusa died during the escape.\n\nAccording to Dionysius of Halicarnassus, Ascanius' original name was Euryleon and this name was changed to Ascanius after his flight from Troy. According to Virgil, Ascanius was also called Iulus or Julus. The Gens Julia, or the Julians, the clan to which Julius Caesar belonged, claimed to have been descended from Ascanius/Iulus, his father Aeneas, and, ultimately, the goddess Venus, the mother of Aeneas in myth, his father being the mortal Anchises. \nAccording to Dionysius of Halicarnassus, however, Julus was a son of Ascanius who disputed the succession of the kingdom of Alba Longa with Silvius, upon the death of Ascanius.\n\nAccording to another legend mentioned by Livy, Ascanius may have been the son of Aeneas and Lavinia and thus born in Latium, not Troy. Ascanius later fought in the Italian Wars along with his father Aeneas.\n\nAfter the death of Aeneas, Ascanius became king of Lavinium and an Etruscan king named Mezentius took advantage of the occasion to besiege the city. Mezentius succeeded in making the city surrender and agree to pay a yearly tribute. Upon his retirement, Ascanius fell upon him and his army unaware and entirely defeated Mezentius and killed his son Lausus. Mezentius was forced to agree to pay a yearly tribute. Subsequent to this, exactly thirty years after the founding of Lavinium, Ascanius founded the city of Alba Longa and became its first king. He left his mother, Lavinia, in charge of the city of Lavinium. Ascanius was succeeded by Silvius, who was either the younger brother of Ascanius or his son. Ascanius died in the 28th year of his reign.\n\nHowever, in the \"Aeneid\", Virgil claims that Mezentius fought in the Italian Wars at the time Aeneas was alive. In the Aeneid, it is Aeneas who kills Lausus after harming Mezentius, who escaped while his son faced the Trojan king. When the news about Lausus' death reaches Mezentius, he comes back to face Aeneas, and is killed too. In this account Ascanius does not participate in these deaths.\n\nNevertheless, Virgil shows Ascanius' first experience at war. In the \"Aeneid\", Ascanius is a teenager without real war experiences, but while besieged by the Italians, Ascanius launches an arrow against Numanus, the husband of the youngest sister of Turnus. After killing Numanus, Apollo comes and says to Ascanius:\n\n\"Macte nova virtute, puer: sic itur ad astra,\"\n\"dis genite et geniture deos.\"\n\nThis phrase can be translated into English as: \"Go forth with new value, boy: thus is the path to the stars; son of gods that will have gods as sons.\" or \"Blessings on your fresh courage, boy, scion of gods and ancestor of gods yet to be, so it is man rises to the stars.\" In this verse, Virgil makes a clear reference to the offspring of Iulus, from whom Augustus Caesar claimed descent. Therefore, in this verse Virgil refers to the Gens Julia, the family of Augustus and Julius Caesar, who was deified after his death.\n\nThe sic itur ad astra become almost proverbial and several mottos use an \"ad astra\" phrase. After this episode, Apollo orders to the Trojans to keep Ascanius away from the war.\n\nIn this same episode Ascanius, before launching the fatal arrow in Numanus, prays to Jupiter, saying:\n\n\"Jupiter omnipotens, audacibus annue cœptis\"\n\nThe translation is : \"Omnipotent Jupiter, please favour my audacity\" or \"All-powerful Jupiter, assent to my bold attempt\". The last part of the hexameter became the United States motto \"annuit coeptis\".\n\nThe name Iulus was popularised by Virgil in the \"Aeneid\": replacing the Greek name Ascanius with Iulus linked the Julian family of Rome to earlier mythology. The emperor Augustus, who commissioned the work, was a great patron of the arts. As a member of the Julian family, he could claim to have four major Olympian gods in his family tree: (Jupiter, Juno, Venus and Mars), so he encouraged his many poets to emphasize his supposed descent from Aeneas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26023711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26023711", "title": "Babowai", "text": "Babowai\n\nBabowai (also Babaeus or Mar Babwahi) (died 484) was Catholicos of Seleucia-Ctesiphon and Patriarch of the Church of the East from 457 to 484, during the reign of the Sassanid King Peroz I. Babowai was known for his pro-Byzantine leanings, for which he was often in conflict with other members of the anti-Byzantine Church of the East. He was executed in 484.\n\nBabowai was known as a learned philosopher. He was also a convert from Magianism, what the Zorastrians would call an apostate, someone who had renounced their religion, and therefore subject to considerable persecution. He was imprisoned for seven years, probably 470–480, and tortured repeatedly by the Magi, who were also burning churches and imprisoning other Christians. Babowai was also often in conflict with Barsauma, the metropolitan of Nisibis, though this was not unusual as Babowai was known to be in conflict with many others as well, be they authorities, colleagues, or subordinates. He was known to discipline bishops in his church, and whether right or wrong, some of these bishops would flee to Barsauma for his support.\n\nThe root of the conflict with Barsauma may have been due to a major issue at the time, that of whether members of the clergy should be celibate or not. When Babowai wrote a letter to some Roman bishops, asking them to use their influence with the emperor, and procure his intercession with the Shah-in-Shah (King Peroz) to avert persecution, Barsauma somehow managed to intercept the message, even though it had been hidden in the hollow of a cane. Within the letter, Babowai had used some imprudent language such as, \"God has given us over to an accursed kingdom.\" Barsauma took advantage of this, and showed the letter to King Peroz, who was understandably furious. Peroz confronted Babowai, who admitted to the letter, and Peroz sentenced Babowai to death. For this, he is regarded by some as a martyr.\n\nBabowai founded a school at Seleucia, of which his successor Mar Acacius was the first head. Mar Aba undertook substantial remodeling, and gave the school a library. When the Patriarchate was transferred to Baghdad in the 9th century, the school followed it.\n\n"}
{"id": "7706500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7706500", "title": "Biblical Research Institute", "text": "Biblical Research Institute\n\nThe Biblical Research Institute (BRI) is a service department of the Seventh-day Adventist Church with the three stated functions of research, apologetics (defense of the church's beliefs), and service to the church. It serves as a theological consultant to the General Conference. It consists of four Adventist theologians working at the church headquarters in Silver Spring, Maryland, and is currently (as of 2016) directed by Elias Brasil de Souza. The institute also directs the Biblical Research Institute Committee (BRICOM) which consists of about forty members worldwide, and the Biblical Research Institute Science Council (BRISCO), which investigates the relationship between science and religion.\n\nWoodrow Whidden has described the work of the Institute as \"conservative Adventist scholarship\".\n\nThe Biblical Research Institute was established as a service department of the church on September 25, 1975 by the General Conference. However it has historical roots in a number of other organizations.\n\nIn 1943 church leaders established a committee to give defenses to critics of the church, including offshoot groups. This was named the Defense Literature Committee in 1952, and reorganized as the Biblical Study and Research Group in 1956.\n\nThe Biblical Study and Research Committee or Biblical Study Committee had been created on September 24, 1952. To a certain extent it took the place of the Biblical Research Fellowship, which was being dissolved at the time. The Bible Research Fellowship was an unofficial society of Adventist Bible teachers. It was planned in 1940, and was materialized in 1943. L. L. Caviness was the chairman and Raymond Cottrell its secretary throughout its lifetime of around 10 years. Both were religion lecturers at Pacific Union College at the time. Membership rose to 250, and included all except one Adventist college-level Bible teachers worldwide. Many others were paying members, including some General Conference employees. More than 90 formal papers were presented. In 1950 General Conference president W. H. Branson wrote letters to church leaders worldwide claiming the fellowship was a \"renegade organization\", signaling its demise.\n\nAs mentioned above the Biblical Research Institute was established in 1975. It has sponsored events such as seminars and Bible conferences. From 1982 to 1992 it published the Daniel and Revelation Series in response to the controversy surrounding Desmond Ford.\n\nDirectors:\n\nAs of 2016, the members are Elias Brasil de Souza (director), and Kwabena Donkor, Ekkehard Mueller, and Clinton Wahlen (associate directors). Retired director Ángel M. Rodríguez works as a part-time associate director.\n\nThe Biblical Research Institute Committee examines theological issues that the Seventh-day Adventist Church faces. Its members are elected at General Conference Sessions. BRICOM members for the 2000-2005 quinquennium included: Niels-Erik Andreasen, John T. Baldwin, Matthew A. Bediako, Ivan T. Blazen, Keith Burton, Lael O. Caesar, Jaime Castrejon, Gordon E. Christo, JoAnn M. Davidson, Richard M. Davidson, Ganoune Diop, Ron du Preez, Larry R. Evans, Francisco Gayoba, Daniel Heinz, Eugene Hsu, Greg A. King, Miroslav M. Kis, George R. Knight, Robert E. Lemon, John K. McVay, Ekkehardt Mueller, Daegeuk Nam, James R. Nix, Brempong Owusu-Antwi, Jon K. Paulien, Jan Paulsen, Paul B. Petersen, Roberto Pereyra, Gerhard Pfandl, George W. Reid, Angel M. Rodriguez, Artur A. Stele, Ted N. C. Wilson, Randall W. Younker, and E. Edward Zinke.\n\nThe Biblical Research Institute regularly publishes academic books and articles that address theological issues. These books include\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11081399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11081399", "title": "Buddhism in Nicaragua", "text": "Buddhism in Nicaragua\n\nBuddhism in Nicaragua has existed since the late 19th century, after immigration from countries with Buddhist populations, mainly China. Although sources are not readily available, Buddhists are believed to constitute 0.1% of the total population in Nicaragua.\n\nBuddhism was brought to Nicaragua in the late 19th century when the Chinese started arriving, many of which came from Guǎngdōng (广东) province.\n\n\nSAMU - Zen Lab \n"}
{"id": "5301631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5301631", "title": "Dimasa people", "text": "Dimasa people\n\nThe Dimasa people (or Dima-basa, and also called Dimasa-Kachari) are an indigenous ethnolinguistic (note that dimasa are not Assamese) community presently inhabiting Assam and Nagaland states in Northeastern India. Dimasa mythology says that they are the children of Bangla Raja (Earthquake God) and the great divine bird Arikhidima. Bangla Raja's six sons— Sibrai, Doo Raja, Naikhu Raja, Waa Raja, Guyung Brai Yung, and Hamyadao and Arikhidima are their ancestors, and in Dimasa belief, are ancestral Gods. They are called Madai in Dimasa. Evil spirits born of the seventh egg of \"Arikhidima\" are responsible for disease, suffering and natural calamities.\n\nAncient Dimasa tradition maintains that sixty thousand ( 60,000 ) Moon months (Lunar months) ago, they left their ancestral land when it suffered a severe drought. After a long wandering, they settled at \"Di-laobra Sangibra\", the confluence of the Brahmaputra and Sangi or Di-tsang. There they held a great assembly. The place is in the present West Bengal area where the River Ganga and the Brahmaputra join, and where the Kacharis established their first seat. Over time, their kingdom over large territories.\n\nThe Dimasa are one of the oldest inhabitants of the North Eastern part of India and is one of the many Kachari tribes. They live mostly in Dima Hasao District, an administrative district of the Indian state of Assam that includes the ravines of the Jatinga valley and Lower portion of Karbi Anglong district (East), Lower Crescent Region of Nagaon district, Cachar district of Assam and Dimapur district of Nagaland and Jiribam region of Manipur respectively. \n\nThe name 'Dimasa' may mean have either of the two definitions. Firstly, Dimasa may stand for \"Dimba-sa\" meaning \"children of Hi-dimba\". Secondly, it may also stand for \"Dima-sa\" meaning \"children of the big river\" referring to Brahmaputra river (known as Dilao in Dimasa), where \"Dima\" means river and \"Sa\" means children. Kacharis appear to be one of the earliest indigenous ethnic groups of north eastern India. Most independent tribal communities in this region are of Kachari origin. The Rabha, Tiwa (Lalung), Sonowal, Thengal, Dimasa, Garo, Hajong, Deori, Chutia, Koch Rajbongshi, Tipra or Tripuri, Mech, Rukkini Barman of Hailakandi and Karimganj, Bodos etc.as well as the Tripura tribes inhabiting the three districts of the Chittagong Hill Tracts of Bangladesh are all of Kachari origin. Dimasas also have cultural activities such as dances in their traditions\n\nDimasa Kachari are mainly found in the present-day Dima Hasao District (Old name \"North Cachar Hills\" or \"N. C. Hills\") of Assam. They also have a sizable population in Cachar, Karbi Anglong, Nowgong, Hailakandi and Karimganj Districts of the Assam State and also Dimapur and Jiribam region of Nagaland and Manipur state respectively. In Cachar, following the formal conversion of their king Krishna Chandra Hasnusa to Hinduism general Dimasa have largely adopted Hinduism. These new converts to Hinduism are called Barman of Cachar. On the other hand, in Nowgong District the Dimasa have come under the influence of Assamese Vishnavism,and there they are called Hojai Kachari (Hojai is also a name of a Dimasa male clan). This term is also stands for the priest). In Dima Hasao district, a section of the Dimasa called Semsas is confined within the historical village named Semkhor,they eventually developed a distinct dialect. Similar minor distinction exists within the Dimasa based on the region they inhabit like Hawarsa, Dembrasa, Hamrisa, Dijuwasa and Hasaosa and Walgongsa.\n\nA History of Kachari Kingdom is nothing but the History of Dimasa Kachari Kingdom and Some of the plain Dimasa become Boro-Kachari after Greater Bodo nationalism. Kachari being one of the indigenous tribe of India's North-East, their history is quite old. In the Mahabharata and other ancient Hindu scriptures there are mention about the foothill dwellers of the Great Himalayas called ‘Kiratas’. The term Kirata stands for Mongoloid racial communities, but some historian believed that it indicates Kachari.\n\nThe earliest Kachari settlements were in the foothills of the Himalayas.From there they moved to the Brahmaputra valley with their Capital at Khamru>Kamruli or Khamruba>Kamrupa (Khamruba means start first to establish the place). Sir Edward Gait in his History of Assam,1906 is of the opinion that the Kachari were the aborigines or earliest inhabitants of the Brahmaputra valley along with Chutia,Karbi and Moran people. After hundreds of years of rule in the Brahmaputra valley,a bulk of this race due to socio-political turmoil,were believed to have migrated south of the Brahmaputra and settled in the areas of the present Nagaon of Assam after crossing the mighty river by planning of cane bridge, probably the Brahmaputra. This section is now known as 'Dimasa' etymologically 'the children of the great river' (Di = water, ma = big, sa = children) (see Bordoloi 1988, Gait 1906).\n\nFacing Ahom aggression, they further migrated toward south, on to the Dongsiri>Dhansiri valley and established their capital at Dimapur presently in the state of Nagaland after a short stint at Kachomari pathar about forty kilometers from Dimapur. It was here that the Dimasa Kachari undertook an arduous task of state building and flourished for several hundred years till 1536 when they shifted their capital to Maibang at the present day district of Dima Hasao District (Old name \"North Cachar Hills\") of Assam. Historical relics of Dimasa Kachari royaldome still exist in and around Dimapur, particularly in the Dimapur fort called Kachari Rajbari in spite of the constant ravages of human encroachment, show that the Kachari at that period had attained a state of the result of bricks making. Among the large tanks Podum Pukhuri, Bangle Pukhuri, Bamun Pukhuri, Raj Pukhuri, Jor Pukhuri and others still survive to this day. It is said in one folklore that during the fight with Ahom, The Dimasa Kachari King had dumped gold and other precious metals in some of these tanks and believed to have told his subject that long after he left, a day would come when a male Mithun would come from the hills and dig up this gold by its horn, which would weigh mound (about 240 kg) and that would be the time when Dimasa Kachari rise again and prosper.\n\nThe Dimapur reign of the seven hundred years (i.e. 835 A.D to 1854 A.D.) extended along the southern bank of the Brahmaputra, from the Dikhow river in the east to Kalang in the west and Dhansiri valley. Historian are not in the position to tell the exact date of establishment of the Dimasa Kachari capital of Dimapur. They presumed that the capital of Dimapur was established in the 10th century. Dimapur was said to be flourishing at its full heights. For, it must have taken at least seven hundred years for the King to build his state.\n\nThe glorious Rule of the Dimasa Kachari Kingdom at Dimapur capital from intime memorial from the epic age, but it began with the advent of the Ahoms in the upper Brahmaputra by the close of the fifteenth century. The expansionist behavior of the Ahom lead to constant hostilities between the two. Thus in the year 1490 the major battle was in which the Ahoms were completely routed and their Chief Chuhenpha was humiliated and forced to sue for peace. However peace did not last for long as the Ahoms intruded into the Dimasa Kachari territory and set up a fort at Morangi ( in Golaghat) and thus the battle ensued in 1526 AD and the Ahoms were again totally defeated and pushed back beyond the Dikhow river, which became the natural boundary between the two principalities for some years. Meanwhile, when the Ahoms kept on consolidating their army, the Dimasa Kachari, emboldened by previous successes, became complacent and neglected the security affairs of their country. Taking advantage of this, the Ahoms forgot their numerous humiliating defeat in the past and again broke their peace treaty with the Dimasa Kachari and set up a fort at Morangi and thus another battle ensued and the Dimasa Kachari were finally defeated due to superior number of army. A Dimasa Kachari folk tale says that the Ahom army rode on cows during this battle, which shocked the Kachari army, since killing cows would be a defilement. The Dimasa Kacharis of that period, considered cows ‘gushu’ (impure). Only later, after they embraced Brahmanical Hinduism, did they believe cows sacred. After defeating the Kacharis monarch Khunkradao Raja, the Ahoms installed Dehtsung, the kings brother, as Dimapur King on condition of allegiance to the Ahoms ruler. However, within a few years the Dimasa Kachari king revolted and refused to pay tribute to the Ahom ruler and thus another battle became inevitable and in 1536 another fierce battle was fought. The Dimasa Kachari King was defeated. The survivors of the ruling clan along with loyal subjects thereafter shifted their capital to Maibang.\n\nFrom Dimapur, the royal family of Kachari in their last lag of migration moved to Khaspur of Kachar district of Assam. The Dimasa Kachari Kingdom finally annexed by the British East India company along with Assam following Yandabu Treaty.\n\n\n• Virochana (835 - 885),\n• Vorahi (885 - 925),\n• Prasanto alias Prasadao (Chakradwaj alias Khamaoto)(925 - 1010),\n• Uditya (1010 - 1040),\n• Prabhakar (1040 - 1070),\n• Korpoordhwaj (1070 - 1100),\n• Giridhar (1100 - 1125),\n•Beeradhwaj (1125 - 1155),\n• Surajit (1155 - 1180),\n• Ohak (1180 - 1210),\n• Makardhwaj Narayan (Rana Pratap alias Raogena) (1210 - 1286),\n• Bhopal (1286 - 1316),\n• Purandar (1316 - 1336),\n• Bicharpatipha alias Prakash (1336 - 1386),\n• Vikramadityapha alias Vikaranto (1386 - 1411),\n• Mahamanipha alias Prabal (1411 - 1436),\n• Manipha (1436 - 1461),\n• Ladapha (1461 - 1486),\n• Khunkhora alias Khorapha (1486 - 1511),\n• Det tsang alias Dersongpha (1511 - 1536),\n\n• Nirbhay Narayan (1540-1550),\n• Durlabh Narayan or Harmesvar (1550-1576),\n• Megha Narayana (1576–1583),\n•Satrrudaman (Pratap Narayan, Jasa Narayan) (1583–1613),\n• Nar Narayan (1613-1625),\n• Bhimdarpa Narayan Bhimbal Konwar (1625-1637),\n• Indraballabh Narayan (1637-1655),\n• Birdarpa Narayan (1655-1681),\n• Garurdhwaj Narayan (1681-1686),\n• Makardhwaj (1686-1692),\n• Udayaditya (1692-1699),\n• Tamradhwaj Narayan (1699–1708),\n• Queen Chandraprabha (1708-1710),\n• Suradarpa Narayan (1710-1730),\n• Dharmadhwaj Narayan (Harischandra Narayan) (1730-1735),\n• Kirichandra Narayan (1735–1745),\n• Gopichandra Narayan (1745–1757),\n• Harischandra II (1757–1772),\n• Krishnachandra Narayan Hasnusa (1772–1813),\n• Gobindchandra Narayan (1813–1830 till of 14 August),\n• Tularam Senapaty(Thaosen)(Died on 1850 of 12 October).\n\nSituated on the banks of the river Dhansiri,Dimapur, often described as the ‘Brick City’ by European scholars and also by the Ahom, was the ancient capital of a ruling nation, the Dimasa Kachari, who were once a powerful and predominant race in the Entire North-East India region.There are two versions of how Dimapur got its name. Many writers are of the opinion that the name’ Dimapur’ was derived from Dimasa Kachari words Di-meaning \"water,\" Ma-meaning big and Pur-meaning \"city\" or \"township\" in Dimasa-Kachari dialogue. While other believe that Dimapur is a corruption of Hidimbapur (Hirimbapur), meaning the city of Hidimba of Mahabharata fame whose wedlock with Pandava prince Bhima gave birth to Ghotokacha, who is believed to be the progenitor of the Kachari. Later Hidimbapur devolved to Dimbapur and then finally to Dimapur. In some Dimasa Kachari folklores Dimapur is often referred as Dimabang Halali, which implies that Dimapur was originally known by that name but was Sanskritized later by the Brahmin. In Ahom Chronicles Dimapur has been described as ‘Che-din-chi-pen’ (town-earth-burn-make) meaning ‘brick town’ or ‘Che-Dima’ meaning town of Dimasa\n\nThe seat of capital of Dimapur Kingdom was originally surrounded by bricks walls of four feet wide, sixteen feet high with outer ditch running alongside the walls of sixteen feet width and twelve feet in depth except on the southern side where the river Dhansiri served as the natural ditch. On the eastern side there was a fine solid gateway with brick masonry of pointed double arcs. The gate was secured by double heavy doors hinged in pierced upright setting of solid stone blocks. At both ends of the bannttlement there were turrets of half quadrant shape and in between the arc-way and the turrets were niche resembling ornamental windows. On both sides above the arc there were symbolic works of sun flower. There were originally inset by bright brass coating and could be seen dazzling from the great distance.\n\nInside the fortified city, there were seventeen artistic stone pillars. These stone monuments were decorated with carvings of foliage, flowers, familiar animals and birds but nowhere any human images of gods and goddesses were seen. These implied that the Dimasa Kachari were free of Hindu influence at that time. These monoliths are believed to be lineal monuments of the ruling kings of Dimapur. The biggest of them was seventeen feet high and twenty four feet in circumference and was said to be memorial of the greatest Dimasa Kachari ruler Makardhwaj Thaosen in whose time the traditional glory of the Dimasa Kachari Kingdom rose to its climax and during whose time the conquests were made of Manipur and Burma by Hero Dehmalu Kemprai, the greatest war lord of the Dimasa Kachari. Also during this period, heroes like Rangadao Daolaguphu (Who was given the southern part of Dimapur, Ranga Pathar or Rangapahar after his name is still remain), Dehgadao Daolaguphu and mystic heroines like Waibangma,Waringma Theremju flourished in war affairs and mysticism. Other V-shape stone monuments seventeen in numbers indicated seventeen royal clans of the ‘Kachari Aristocracy’ a term used by Dr. Francis Hamilton, a renowned scholar of the Kachari Royal Clan.\n\nShri S.K. Barpujari in his book ‘History of the Dimasa’ and some writers opined that the Dimasa Kachari Kings to commemorated their Victory over other tribesman, erected moonlights of different shapes indicating the different traditions of the vanquished tribes. This tradition of carving victory memorial is in vogue hill tribes and it is possible that the Dimasa Kachari kings might have followed the tradition of these tribes hand it is possible that the Dimasa Kachari kings might have followed the tradition of this tribes for administrative interest. Dr H. Bareh in the ‘Gazetteer of India’ writes that the oblong V-Shaped stone pillars closely correspond to the similarly V-Shaped post protruding from the roof of the house of wealthy Angami.\n\nThe tallest and largest megalith, which lies isolated from others and has a unique Sultanate style, is believed to have been erected by the founder king of Dimapur, who after vanquishing the tribes all around made his triumpant tower to commemorate his victory and this became a tradition setter. In and around this old city, large number of tanks over fifty in number existed, although most of them have since either dried up or have been destroyed by reckless human encroachment without an iota of respect for the history. These tanks were believed to be either dug by the kings for providing water supply to their people or might have resulted due to brick making, as pieces of old bricks could still be found in and around these tanks and, as has been mentioned earlier, Dimapur was known for use of bricks. Most of large tanks are rectangular and have a hardwood seasoned poles planted deep at the centre of the tanks, which have lasted for hundreds of years. Others are of irregular shapes without any such wooden poles. Inference in that, the former ones might have been dug by the Dimasa kings for water supply and the later were habitation as Di-gojo> Dijuwa meaning cut off from main river or stream’ and this tradition is still in vogue, and this area covers Dimapur and Dimasa Kachari inhabited areas of Karbi Anglong District of Assam in the Dhansiri valley. The present Dimapur is the commercial capital of Nagaland and is one of the fastest growing townships in the entire North-east region. But irony is, in the name of the modernity and development, this ancient city of Dimapur, whose historical relics finds a place in the World. Heritage is being gradually destroyed of its rich history by reckless human greed, and total destruction of its rich heritage is only a question of time.\n\nAccording to the 2001 Census of India, more than 98% of all Dimasa living in Assam are Hindu. In a Dimasa society, it is believed spiritual life, Spirit is a soul. Dimasa believe traditionally the rebirth of soul after death.\nDimasa believe that they are the children of Bangla Raja and the great divine bird Aarikhidima. The six sons namely- Sibrai, Doo Raja, Naikhu Raja, Waa Raja, Gunyung Brai Yung, Hamyadao born to Bangla Raja and Arikhidima are their ancestors and the Dimasa consider them to be their ancestral gods. They are called Madai in Dimasa. The evil spirits born out of the seventh egg of Arikhidima are responsible for the diseases, sufferings and natural calamities.\nMany Dimasa consider themselves to be Hindus although they have their traditional gods and goddesses. Among the six ancestral gods, Sibrai being the eldest, is the most important and during worship his name is to be uttered first. Sibrai is equated with Hindu Siva and Ranachandi with Parbati or Kali. The Dimasa also believe that Matengma, Hirimdi and Kamakhya are other names of Ranachandi.\nThe whole Dimasa kingdom in bygone days was divided into twelve religious areas called Daikho. There are twelve priests for twelve Daikhos. The priest of a Daikho is called Zonthai. He have supreme authority in matters of deities and religion and above Zonthai is there is Zonthaima. Dain-yah is the one who sacrifice animal. Hojai performs the rituals over the twelve Zonthais of twelve Daikhos, there is a principal priest or chief priest called Gisiya. The selected person will get the Zonthaiship only when Gisiya offers him holy water called Dithar (Di-gathar).\nThe Dimasa concept of heaven and hell is also very faint. according to their belief Firinghi is heaven, Damra is the land for the dead where the dead persons retain their original form.\n\"Manner\" is a human virtue inherent in man’s character, also and passed from father to son and mother to daughter.\n\nIn Dimasa, the village system is called Nohlai meaning a cluster of houses and the whole village with its population is called Raji. Dimasa tend to live on river banks and next to streams. Therefore, Dimasa Kachari villages are on hills, with thirty to fifty, though sometimes (rarely) as many as four hundred houses. The houses are built in two facing rows. The houses, with a timber superstructure, mud-plastered bamboo walls, and thatched roof are called Noh-Dima.\nEach families in a village has a few fruit trees—like Guava, mango, Jack fruit, plaintain and others.\n\nThe traditional village headman, who is at the top of the village administration, is a Khunang. He has both executive and judiciary powers.\nHe is assisted by another official called the Dillik (Assistant Headman). Next to him is Daulathu who occupies the third place. Next to the Daulathu is the Haphaisgao, who holds office for two years. Other village officials include Phrai, Montri, Hangsbukhu, and Jalairao.\n\nDimasa houses use a floor plan called Noh-Dima that partitions the structure into a drawing room, sleeping room, kitchen room, and granary. A place for pounding rice is called Thengkhikho in Dimasa. Santho-rimin is another kind of pounding rice tool. Dimasa use a household article like to keep water used the bamboo and for cooking use silver utensil,spoon made of wood and Dish made of wood and banana leaf and other, a house for latrin, bath room and others also.\nThe village, earlier in Dimasa society, there is grouping system of houses which is called punji which consisted of one a place around. Nohdrang named in Dimasa called club is placed in the middle or centre in the village or punji. The road communication is connect from the village to centre i.e. market, shop, town and another place.\nIn the socio-economic life of the Dimasa, the role played by livestock is of great significance. Domesticated animals and birds are not only required during the celebration of socio-religion festivals and performance of rituals but required for Domestic consumption and sometimes for commercial purposes also. The Dimasa Kachari rears Buffalo,Pigs, Fowls, Goats, Ducks, Cows and others.\nMany stone monoliths are lying scattered at Kachomari pathar on the Daiyang river in Golaghat district Assam, bears the triumphant victory in the battles many times by Dimasa King from the 13th century. The remains of the palatial buildings, the traditional capital gateway and the decorative art of architecture, geometric and floral ornamentation found in these relics are marvelous. The sculptural design of animals and birds on the pillars at Dimapur by Raja Makardwaj Thousen in the tenth century show clearly the state of cultural development of the Dimasa Kachari. Many erected ramparts, temples were not seen at capital complex Dimapur due to the destruction by Ahom period in 1536. Stone house was erected at Maibang by Raja Harish Chandra Hasnusa in the 16th century. Stone inscription was installed at capital gate of Maibang by Raja Meghanarayan Hasnusa and statue of Horse is a worthable.\nNumerous temples of Garhere vitor, Khaspur and Singhadowar of Khaspur both palaces of Queen Indraprava Devi were erected by Dimaraja in the 18th century bear the cultural of that time.\n\nAs Dimasa Kachari have both male clan and female clans their law inheritance is somewhat peculiar in nature. The Dimasa have a patriarchal society. But in spite of that they have three types of property namely paternal property, maternal property and common property. The paternal property consists of real estates, weapons, cash money and the cattle. The maternal or mothers property consists of jewellery, clothes and looms with their accessories used by the mother. The common property consists of the cooking utensil, brass-metal dishes and bowls and other household equipment. According to the customary law of inheritance of the Dimasa, while the paternal property is inherited by the sons, the maternal property is inherited by the daughters and common property is shared by the sons and daughters equally.\n\nAgricultural is the principal occupation and main source of livelihood of the Diamsa Kacharis. Dimasa were compelled to adopt shifting cultivation, commonly known as jhum, in hilly areas. Tracts of plains land suitable for permanent cultivation lying here and there between the ridges are very few. The Dimasa mainly cultivate maize, sesame, cotton and others. Many Dimasa families cultivate pineapples, oranges, cotton and mustars to a limited extent. In the jhum site itself a house to store the harvested paddy is erected and this house is called Mandu. Biba’s meaning is to be applied to a boys and girls to carry the paddy to his own house from the keeping Mandu.\n\nBushu is an important festival celebrated by Dimasa with the celebration of great pomp and splenduor among the Dimasa. Bushu is celebrated after completion of harvest. Bushu, the word gives the meaning such as Brai-Sibrai is a supreme God in Dimasa society. So, in this way, the entire harvesting new paddy is offered first to the Brai sibrai madai for peace of the human kind is called Bushu.\nPhangsla, an artistically designed gate, is erected at the village entrance for the Bishu festival.Busu has a three kind namely Surem Busu observe for three or five days, Hangseu manaoba Bushu is observed for seven days and Jidab Bushu is for only one day.\nGajaibao is selected as a head of the festival. He is in charge of the festival. Meats of animals and birds killed are consumed in a communal feast on the very day. Bushu is followed by singing accompanied by the rhythm of Kharams (drums), Muri, the wooden buggle continues first to third days without stop. Man and woman, Boys and Girls and others with their traditional dress spends whole night by dancing in the festival. In the afternoon local games like long jump, high jump, stone throw is organised in front of Nodrang in last day. Bushu garba is conducted by the Khunang with elders. Any chief guest, invited guest has to be welcome by playing the Muri and Kharam in any occasion in Dimasa society.\n\nAmong the festivals of the Dimasa, Bushu is the most joyous and important community festival. The festival is usually celebrated in the month of January, when all sort or works of the jhum are completed. Thus the Bushu is an occasion for relaxation from hard toils. It can, therefore be termed as harvesting festival or a festival of rejoicing and merry making. Hence the participation in this celebration is not restricted to any one. The festival may be celebration at an agreed time according to the convenience of the village people. But since 1994 as per the decision of Dimasa community of Dima Hasao, the Autonomous Council of Dima Hasao had officially declared 27 January as Bushu festival day.\n\nThe Bushu festival can be divided into the following categories:-\n\nBushu Jidap:\n\nBushu Jidap is generally observed for one to three days. It is celebrated under the guidance of the leadership of the Khunang or Gaonbura. The first day is called mi-staiba meaning slaughtering day of animals for feast. The animal is slaughtered in the morning and in the afternoon they held a community feast called Khalaima khamba in the house of Khunang. When the sun goes down the competition called Baiba Bdailaiba consisting of singing, dancing and playing musical instruments of Muree are held in the courtyard of the bachelor’s traditional house called Nohdrang. The bonfire is lit in the middle of the dancing ground which lightens the ground and serves to warm up themselves from the cold night. The best dancers and Muree players are given prizes. The whole night is then passed in dancing and merry making.\nThe second day is called Bushuma, meaning the main Bushu day. It is on this day the children or juniors pay respect and adoration, to their parents or elders. It is done individually or collectively. This kind of ceremonial blessing is called Bushu Gaba, and is usually undertaken before the mid noon. The whole day passed in eating meat and drinking rice beer. In the afternoon the traditional long-jump called Harang baiba and Shot-put or longthailemba are played in a particular selected level area. The game is meant only for the senior married persons, naturally householder. The declared hero or winner has to entertain the villagers with rice beer and meat.\nOn the third and last day young boys and young girls pay a house to house visit by singing and dancing in the courtyard of the selected well to do persons of the village. Whatever they collect either in cash or in kind from this process is eventually used for their feast. In the evening or at the dawn of the morning according to the instructions of the village priest they end their dance and playing musical instruments. On behalf of his village the priest then perform Gerba on the main road of the village by sacrificing a fowl to the deity of the village for omissions and commission during the festivals. This is called Lamphungba, and by sacrificing this ritual means the end of the festival.\n\nSurem Baino\n\nIt is generally celebrated for five days. Surem Baino, unlike the Bushu Jidap, is celebrated under the guidance of Gajaibao not of the Khunang (Village headman). When a village is supposed to observe the Surem Baino, they would have to elect or select the Gajaibao or leader or guardian for it long before the celebration. The Bushu celebration is then undertaken in the courtyard of Gajaibao. The function like dancing, singing is also held in the compound of Gajaibaos whereas in the jidap they observe in the Nodrang. These are the differences between Jidap and Surem Baino.\n\nHangseu Manaoba\n\nThe Bushu, the most joyous festival of the Dimasas are celebrated widely through its stages of Jidap or Surem. But the third and the grandest category Hangseu Manaoba is mostly celebrated by a large village where there are large numbers of Hangseu or youths. As Hangseu Manaoba is to be celebrated for seven days or seven nights without stopping of the Khrams (drums) and Muree (trumpet), music, dance, feasting and drinking, therefore the undertaking of this particular category needs a sound economy and healthy background of the village. Due to this the youths take initiative to collect fund long before its celebration. They therefore sometimes engaged as day labourers in the jhum of their fellow farmers for fund raising. Some village youths sometime even make a special jhum for this purpose and thus produce like vegetables, pumpkins, chillies, paddy and others,which are used for the occasion. The women folk also performs \"haoba-ragai\", community work in exchange for money or provision to celebrate this Bushu. Provision for sufficient quantities of meat, and rice beer- judima, Plantain leaves, Pontho-bamboo cups, firewood for the whole night’s bonfire as well as for cooking for the whole seven days have to be making by the youths accordingly. Bushu being termed as community festival of merriment, generally the entire responsibility of the celebration is borne by the youths of the village. Throughout the celebration period the village people observe a ritual called Gerba, wherein the blessings are sought from the deity to protect the village. During the celebration of Bussu the village people do not go out for work or take up any kind of journey. Each and every one has to try their level best not to spoil the festivity spirit but to celebrate in its fullest way, which ought to be made.\n\nIt is in this Hangseu Manaoba as a mark of festivities and reception; the youths use to erect the traditional welcome gate called Phangsla, at the main entrance gate of the village. The Phangsla is wholly constructed with a bamboo, which is artistically designed and decorated with a splattered bamboo itself. In bygone days the Phangsla is supposed to be constructed only during the Hangseu Bishu, not on the surem or jidap. But nowadays, whether it is Jidap or Surem, one can see the Phangsla in the celebration of Bushu, especially in the urban areas.\nThe celebration of Hangseu Manaoba is led under the guidance of selected leader Gajaibao. Besides this leader, they also have boys’ leader called Nagahoja and girls’ leader called Mathlahoja. In Dimasa, young boys or men are called Nagarao and young girls or women are called Malarao. Hangseu or Hangso is a youth organization of which both the Nagarao and Malarao are members. They therefore work hard day and night under the guidance of the said three leaders to make the Hangseu Manaoba Bushu a grand success.\n\nFirst Day :The first day is called Hangseu Bushu Rajini Sthaiba, which means the slaughtering day of animals by the village elders. In the morning the village deities are offered sacrifices either pigs, fowls or goats by the elders group. As each village has its own patron Madais, it therefore, is difficult to mention the names of the Madais here to whom the people would offer. But in every ritual Sibrai is remembered, as he is specially considered as the main deity of the Dimasa. The Madais are offered sacrifices to bless the celebration of the festival so that no accident or untoward incidents take place during the time of celebration. After the ritual ceremony is over a portion of the sacrificial meat are then cooked in the house of Khunang or Gajaibao, and the rest are distributed to each household as per their contribution. Then the village elder would feast together by eating the meat and drinking the rice beer. The youths and children are not allowed to join this feast, it is purely sacramental one. This is called Mido garba.\n\nSecond Day : The second day is called Nagaraoni Sthaiba, which means slaughtering day of the animals by the youths. In the morning the buffalo which was solely bought by the Hangseus or youth members is killed and prepared a portion of the meat for their grand feast and the rest are distributed to each Hangso members. Before they eat the cook meat, a handful of the meat curry is offered to the deity Sibarai. While offering the meat to Sibarai, the following sacred songs are pronounced by one and all, so that they could have a blessed Bushu.\n\nAfter one and all saying the above songs, on behalf of the Busu leader (Gajaibao), and Hangsong youths` association they hold a community feast called Suba jiba. The whole day they eat, drink and rejoice. In the evening, when the sun is about to set, the youths hold a community singing fiesta called Bagaoba. The song is sung generally in a position of standing in lines in a procession type in the open space as if they recharged the spirit of festivity in their midst. The following song is one of the oldest songs of the Hangseu Bushu, which is believed to have its origin from the Zeme Princess. (It is said that once a Dimasa Prince married a Zeme girl which is traditionally considered to be the source of this song).\nHangso Manaubani Bagauthai\n\nThis procession is held to call the people to participate in the festival forgiving debts and forgetting grievances, differences and enmity. The second day ends in eating. Drinking and in entertaining guests, friends and relatives.\nThird Day : The third day is called Bushuma. It is considered as the main Bushu day. One this day the children or juniors show respect to their elders and pay ceremonial homage to the elders and offer a Bushu present like a handful of cook meat and a cup full of rice beer. It is done individually or collectively and is usually undertaken within the 12 noon. This kind of ceremonial blessing is called Busu Gaba. One this day not only pay homage to the living but they also pay homage to the spirits of the dead of the preceding year. This last offering of food and drink to the dead \"homage ritual\" is known as Makhamgarkhaoba.\nA community feast is also arranged on this day. Every family entertained people in the house with a handful of meat in a plantain and a bamboo cup of ju. In the afternoon the badailaiba or traditional sports like longthailemba meaning stone throwing and harong baiba meaning long-jump for the elders are held. The winners are sometimes given prizes by the selected persons like maidung and beseng. (maidung and beseng are the two persons, 1st and 2nd in rank who got more paddy than the others in the preceding year) but traditionally, it is expected that the donations whether in cash or in kind may be used for the feast. These competitions, held in the spirit of friendship and understanding, are meant to entertain and the people have fun and laugh.\nWhen the sun goes down, on the courtyard of the Gajaibao a bonfire is lit to warm up from the breezy cold night or to lighten the dancing ground. The young boys and girls, men and women then put on their best traditional dresses and ornaments to take part in the famous Baiba dance. They perform various kinds of dances like Baidima, Jaupinbani, Daislaibani, Jaubani, etc. The good dancers are given prizes. The boys and girls merrily dance together to the music of Kharam and Muree throughout the night, while old men and women and children assembled to witness the gleeful dance of the youths. While watching the skill of their young ones, old men, old women sometimes recalling their sweet bygone days even join the dance for a while just for mirth and fun. A gallon of drinks like ju and judima in a bamboo tube and a bundle peace of meat in a wrapped-up leaf plate are served to them now and then. Drinks are an essential part of the festival and are distributed in fresh pontho (bamboo tube cups) while meat is served in plaintive leaves. While the old aged group cannot take part in the entertainment, they gather in a Khunang house sitting around the fireplace, chatting, joking and tell stories, drinking, eating to their hearts` content. This is how the third day and night passes by.\nFourth to Sixth days : The fourth, fifth and sixth days are called Baikhaoba or Jikhaoba. On these days too community feast are held. The days are spent mainly in eating, drinking, singing and dancing and merrymaking. People go from house to house to share the joy of the festivity and each family provides them with ample food and drinks by each family.\nDuring these days they will perform the dances in the courtyard of the selected well to do family and to the leaders house. This is called Baisingba. This Social festivity continues till sixth noon. In the morning of the sixth day the youth go round the village singing, dancing and playing music. This is called digarlaiba. For the last dance, they again assembled in the dancing ground by performing the dance in merry go round. In the middle of the arena they made a pothole in the ground and let a pitchful of water and the blood of an earlier sacrificial buffalo, and make watery muddy for playing purposes. After singing and dancing for sometime the dancers, children along with their bachelors leader Nagahoja or Mathlahoja facing to the main door of the house of Gajaibao (Hangseu Bushu Leader)and proceed as if in the coming and going for three times. In the same time some youths behave like monkeys and pull out the main door of the Gaijaibao`s house replace it the new one. Pulling out the door may symbolize the end of the Gajaibao`s responsibility. This is known as derga khouma, meaning the door id pulled off. The pulled door was then carried in procession to the river. During the procession they throw the prepared watery muddy at each other in a playful way. This kind of playing with mud is known as Didap Hulaiba. As soon as they each the river the door is thrown into the water and everyone takes their bath. This simply signifies that the festival has comes to an end.\n\nIdea: Dimasa has a concept and idea to uplight his own society. It has an education for preparation of intellectual. Dimasa has a conception of philosophy to rebirth the soul.\nSocial: A Dimasa family generally consists of the head of the family, his wife, their unmarried son and daughter and unmarried brothers and sisters of the family.\nDimasa Kachari has forty male clans called Sengphong and forty two female clan called Julu. The Dimasa society has its own society system of marriage. Existence of female clans along with the male can makes the Dimasa marriage somewhat complicated. The male clans and female clans are exogamous and no marriage can take place between the boys and the girls of the same clan whether be it patri clan or matri clan and however distantly related they might be i.e. A boy belong to Kemprai clan (Patri clan can never marry a girl of a Kemprai father although they might be very distantly related. The same principal is followed in case of the female clan also i.e. a girl belong to madaima mother.)\nThe Ritual performance: The Dimasa have a cremation ground called Mangkhulong. Dimasa cremate the dead body after death. But in olden times and days, this performance has to be conducted after one month or a year gathering all relation and others.\n\n\n\nThe male Dimasa use only two types of ornaments namely Yaocher and Kharik.\n\nFemales use:\n\nThe dance forms of the Dimasa Kachari are complex in character. They are strictly dependent on instrumental music. No songs are used. Kharam (drum) follows the rhythm of the Muri (fife) and so also the dancers. Though one may find the music from Muri to be monotonous, there are variations with noticeable microtones for different dance forms. That is why young men practice dancing at Nodrang during leisure hours and the village children follow the rhythm and stepping at a distance from an early age.\n\nAny Dimasa dance is called Baidima ( Bai-means dance, Dima-means Dimasa)\nDifferent kinds of Dimasa dances are-Baidima (Hasao), Baidijuwa, Baidembra, Baimaijai (It means a cultural performance with stone siever once a time during Dimapur reign, so called Baimaiajai. Now-a-days its unable to perform with stone siever. So Cultural performer conducts with plate or Dish during Festival time.), Baijabah (war dance), Hadaobani, Jaubani, Jauphinbani, Ren-gnibani, Baichergi, Khunlubani, Dainselaibani, Khamauthaikhim khaubani, Nanabairibani, Burunjala Khalaibani, Homau daobani, Hakhor Jaobani, Rong-jaobani, Dausimaikhabani, Dauyungjang, Nowaijang dainlaibani, Nah-rimbani, Rogidaw Bihimaiyadao, Maijaobani, Maishubani, Rishibani, Mishai bonthai jibani, Madaikhilimbani and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8880", "title": "Dryope", "text": "Dryope\n\nIn Greek mythology, Dryope (; Ancient Greek: Δρυόπη derived from δρῦς \"drys\", \"oak\"; \"dryope\" \"woodpecker\") is the name attributed to several distinct figures: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "312809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312809", "title": "Ethics in religion", "text": "Ethics in religion\n\nEthics involves systematizing, defending, and recommending concepts of right and wrong behavior. A central aspect of ethics is \"the good life\", the life worth living or life that is simply satisfying, which is held by many philosophers to be more important than traditional moral conduct.\n\nMost religions have an ethical component, often derived from purported supernatural revelation or guidance. Some assert that religion is necessary to live ethically. Blackburn states that there are those who \"would say that we can only flourish under the umbrella of a strong social order, cemented by common adherence to a particular religious tradition\".\n\nEthics in Buddhism are traditionally based on the enlightened perspective of the Buddha, or other enlightened beings who followed him. Moral instructions are included in Buddhist scriptures or handed down through tradition. Most scholars of Buddhist ethics thus rely on the examination of Buddhist scriptures, and the use of anthropological evidence from traditional Buddhist societies, to justify claims about the nature of Buddhist ethics.\n\nAccording to traditional Buddhism, the foundation of Buddhist ethics for laypeople is the Pancasila: no killing, stealing, lying, sexual misconduct, or intoxicants. In becoming a Buddhist, or affirming one's commitment to Buddhism, a layperson is encouraged to vow to abstain from these negative actions. Buddhist monks and nuns take hundreds more such vows (see vinaya).\n\nThe sole reliance on traditional formulae or practices, however, can be questioned by Western Buddhists whose main concern is the practical solution of complex moral problems in the modern world. To find a justifiable approach to such problems it may be necessary not just to appeal to the precepts or the \"vinaya\", but to use more basic Buddhist teachings (such as the Middle Way) to aid interpretation of the precepts and find more basic justifications for their usefulness relevant to all human experience. This approach avoids basing Buddhist ethics solely on faith in the Buddha's enlightenment or Buddhist tradition, and may allow more universal non-Buddhist access to the insights offered by Buddhist ethics.\n\nThe Buddha provided some basic guidelines for acceptable behavior that are part of the Noble Eightfold Path. The initial percept is non-injury or non-violence to all living creatures from the lowest insect to humans. This precept defines a non-violent attitude toward every living thing. The Buddhist practice of this does not extend to the extremes exhibited by Jainism, but from both the Buddhist and Jain perspectives, non-violence suggests an intimate involvement with, and relationship to, all living things.\n\nTheravada monk Bhikkhu Bodhi has observed:\n\nChristian ethics in general has tended to stress the need for love, grace, mercy, and forgiveness because of sin. With divine assistance, the Christian is called to become increasingly virtuous in both thought and deed, see also the Evangelical counsels. Conversely, the Christian is also called to abstain from vice.\n\nChristian ethical principles are based on the teachings within the Bible. They begin with the notion of inherent sinfulness, which requires essential atonement. Sin is estrangement from God which is the result of not doing God's will. God's will can be summed up by the precept: \"Love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and your neighbor as yourself\", commonly called the Great Commandment. Christian ethics are founded upon the concept of grace which transforms a person's life and enable's one to choose and act righteously. As sin is both individual and social, so is grace applied to both the individual and society. Christian ethics has a teleological aspect—all ethical behavior is oriented towards a vision of the Kingdom of God—a righteous society where all live in peace and harmony with God and nature, as envisioned in the Book of Isaiah. Specific ethical behaviors originate in the Old Testament’s Ten Commandments, and are enriched by teachings in the Psalms and morals contained in historical accounts, see also Biblical law in Christianity.\n\nChristian ethics is not substantially different from Jewish ethics, except in the exhortation to love one's enemy. Perhaps the greatest contribution of Christian ethics is this command to love one's enemies. It has been argued (see Ched Myers's \"Binding the Strong Man\", and John Howard Yoder's \"The Politics of Jesus\") that Jesus was waging a non-violent campaign against the Roman oppressors and many of his sayings relate to this campaign--turn the other cheek, go the second mile, etc. Understanding these commands as part of a larger campaign makes it impossible to interpret Christian ethics as an individual ethic. It is both an individual and a social ethic concerned with life here on earth.\n\nOther tenets include maintaining personal integrity and the absence of hypocrisy, as well as honesty and loyalty, mercy and forgiveness, rejection of materialism and the desire for wealth and power, and teaching others in your life through personal joy, happiness and Godly devotion.\n\nThere are several different schema of vice and virtue. Aquinas adopted the four cardinal virtues of Aristotle (justice, courage, temperance and prudence), and added to them the Christian virtues of faith, hope and charity (from St.Paul, ). Other schema include the Seven Deadly Sins and the Seven virtues. For more see Christian philosophy and Biblical law in Christianity.\n\nConfucianism and Neo-Confucianism emphasize the maintenance and propriety of relationships as the most important consideration in ethics. To be ethical is to do what one's relationships require. Notably, though, what you owe to another person is inversely proportional to their distance from you. In other words, you owe your parents everything, but you are not in any way obligated towards strangers. This can be seen as a recognition of the fact that it is impossible to love the entire world equally and simultaneously. This is called relational ethics, or situational ethics. The Confucian system differs very strongly from Kantian ethics in that there are rarely laws or principles which can be said to be true absolutely or universally.\n\nThis is not to say that there has never been any consideration given to universalist ethics. In fact, in Zhou Dynasty China, the Confucians' main opponents, the followers of Mozi argued for universal love (). The Confucian view eventually held sway, however, and continues to dominate many aspects of Chinese thought. Many have argued, for example, that Mao Zedong was more Confucian than Communist.\nConfucianism, especially of the type argued for by Mencius (), argued that the ideal ruler is the one who (as Confucius put it) \"acts like the North Star, staying in place while the other stars orbit around it\". In other words, the ideal ruler does not go out and force the people to become good, but instead leads by example. The ideal ruler fosters harmony rather than laws.\n\nConfucius stresses honesty above all. His concepts of lĭ (), yì (), and rén () can be seen as deeper expressions of honesty () and fidelity () to the ones to whom one owes one's existence (parents) and survival (one's neighbours, colleagues, inferiors in rank). He codified traditional practice and actually changed the meaning of the prior concepts that those words had meant. His model of the Confucian family and Confucian ruler dominated Chinese life into the early 20th century. This had ossified by then into an Imperial hierarchy of rigid property rights, hard to distinguish from any other dictatorship. Traditional ethics had been perverted by legalism.\n\nBuddhism, and specifically Mahayana Buddhism, brought a cohesive metaphysic to Chinese thought and a strong emphasis on universalism. Neo-Confucianism was largely a reaction to Buddhism's dominance in the Tang dynasty, and an attempt at developing a native Confucian metaphysical/analytical system.\n\nLaozi (Lao Tzu) and other Taoist (Daoist) authors argued for an even greater passivity on the part of rulers than did the Confucians. For Laozi, (Lao Tzu) the ideal ruler is one who does virtually nothing that can be directly identified as ruling. Clearly, both Daoism and Confucianism presume that human nature is basically good. The main branch of Confucianism, however, argues that human nature must be nurtured through ritual (\"li\" 禮), culture (\"wen\" 文) and other things, while the Daoists (Taoists) argued that the trappings of society were to be gotten rid of.\n\nTaoist ethics ask for a greater \"sense of being\" and less identification with \"the act of\" \"doing\". Taoist \"passivity\" nurtures, cultivates and prepares an atmosphere that allows \"the majestic\" and \"the real\" to shine, which influences society for the better. - \"If you want to awaken all of humanity, then awaken all of yourself; if you want to eliminate the suffering in the world, then eliminate all that is dark and negative in yourself. Truly, the greatest gift you have to give is that of your own self-transformation.\" - Lao Tzu\n\nEthics is called Nitisastra (Sanskrit: नीतिशास्त्र) in ancient texts of Hinduism. Ethics and virtue are a much debated and an evolving concept in ancient scriptures of Hinduism. Virtue, right conduct, ethics and morality are part of the complex concept Hindus call Dharma - everything that is essential for people, the world and nature to exist and prosper together, in harmony. As P.V. Kane, the author of the History of Dharmasastra said, the term \"Dharma\" does not have a synonym in English language. While it is often interpreted as meaning \"duty\", it can mean justice, right, moral, good, and much more.\n\nEthics are explained in Hindu philosophy as something that cannot be imposed, but something that is realized and voluntarily lived up to by each individual. For example, Apastamba explained it thus: \"virtue and vice do not go about saying - here we are!; neither the Gods, Gandharvas, nor ancestors can convince us - this is right, this is wrong; virtue is an elusive concept, it demands careful and sustained reflection by every man and woman before it can become part of one's life.\n\nEthics that constitute a dharmic life - that is a moral, ethical, virtuous life - evolve in vedas and upanishads. Ethical subjects and questions are debated by various schools of Hinduism, quite extensively, in numerous texts on what is right conduct, when, how and why. Over time, new virtues were conceptualized and added by ancient Hindu scholars, some replaced, others merged. For example, Manusamhita initially listed ten virtues necessary for a human being to live a \"dharmic\" life: \"Dhriti\" (courage), \"Kshama\" (forgiveness), \"Dama\" (temperance), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Indriyani-graha\" (control of senses), \"dhi\" (reflective prudence), \"vidya\" (wisdom), \"satyam\" (truthfulness), \"akrodha\" (freedom from anger). In later verses, this list was reduced to five virtues by the same scholar, by merging and creating a more broader concept. The shorter list of virtues became: \"Ahimsa\" (Non-violence), \"Dama\" (self restraint), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Satyam\" (truthfulness).\n\nThe Persian historian Al Biruni who visited and lived in India for 16 years in the early 11th century, describes the concept of ethics and virtuous behavior among Hindus of his times. Of ethical mandates among Hindus, a literal translation of his Persian language manuscript includes (1) A man shall not kill; (2) nor lie; (3) nor steal; (4) nor whore; (5) nor hoard up treasures. These correspond to five \"Yamas\" of ancient Hindu ethics: Ahimsa (non-violence), Satya (truth, non-falsehood), Asteya (non-stealing), Brahmacharya (celibacy if unmarried and non-cheating on one's partner if married), and Aparigraha (non-possessiveness). In addition to these five negative things to abstain from, Hindu ethics also recommends five positive things to strive for as \"Niyamas\": \"Śauca\" (purity in body, speech and mind), \"Santosha\" (contentment, acceptance of circumstances with optimism), \"Tapas\" (perseverance, meditation, austerity), \"Swadhyaya\" (lifelong learning) and \"Pranidhan\" (right attitude, contemplation). An ethical life in Hinduism is essential for a liberated life, one without craving, one that is content, attained through knowledge and by abstaining from evil.\n\nHindu literature variously discuss ethics as one or more of four topics: (1) \"Gunas\" that is inner tendencies of conduct found in every individual (in large measure, psychology); (2) \"Purushartha\" that is proper aims of life for every individual for self-development and happiness (dharma, artha, kama and moksha); (3) \"Ashramas\" that is ethics for an individual in different periods of one's lifetime (ethical expectations for a child are distinguished from those for adults, old age); and (4) \"Varnasramas\" that is ethics and conduct for every individual in relation to society. Ancient literature at the foundation of various Hindu traditions primarily discuss the first three, while the last has attracted greater attention since the 18th century. Some early 20th century literature wondered if ethics was ever a serious topic of study in Hinduism. Later studies have yielded the above four approaches to ethics in different schools of Hinduism, tied together with three common themes: (1) ethics is an essential part of dharma concept, (2) Ahimsa (non-violence) is the foundational premise without which - suggests Hinduism - ethics and any consistent ethical theory is impossible, and (3) Ethics cannot always be dualistically or non-dualistically reduced from first principles, ethics is closely related to moksha (self realization and spiritual freedom) with Vivekacudamani stating, \"individuals with self knowledge and spiritual freedom are inherently self examining and ethical\" and \"ethics, freedom and knowledge require each other\". In addition to the above four topics in Hindu ethics, scholars state that the karma doctrine of Hinduism is part of its ethical theory compendium.\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita—considered one of the epitomes of historic Hindu discussion of virtues and an allegorical debate on what is right and what is wrong—argues some virtues are not necessarily always absolute, but sometimes relational; for example, it explains a virtue such as Ahimsa must be re-examined when one is faced with war or violence from the aggressiveness, immaturity or ignorance of others.\n\nThe foundational source in the gradual codification of Islamic ethics was the Muslim understanding and interpretations of the mankind has been granted the faculty to discern God's will and to abide by it. This faculty most crucially involves reflecting over the meaning of existence, which, as John Kelsay in the \"Encyclopedia of Ethics\" phrases, \"ultimately points to the reality of God.\" Therefore, regardless of their environment, humans are believed to have a moral responsibility to submit to God's will and to follow Islam (as demonstrated in the Qur'an and the Sunnah, or the sayings of Muhammad) ).\n\nThis natural inclination is, according to the Qur'an, subverted by mankind's focus on material success: such focus first presents itself as a need for basic survival or security, but then tends to manifest into a desire to become distinguished among one's peers. Ultimately, the focus on materialism, according to the Islamic texts, hampers with the innate reflection as described above, resulting in a state of \"jahiliyya\" or \"ignorance.\"\n\nMuslims believe that Muhammad, like other prophets in Islam, was sent by God to remind human beings of their moral responsibility, and challenge those ideas in society which opposed submission to God. According to Kelsay, this challenge was directed against five main characteristics of pre-Islamic Arabia:\n\n\nThese changes lay in the reorientation of society as regards to identity and life of the Muslim belief, world view, and the hierarchy of values. From the viewpoint of subsequent generations, this caused a great transformation in the society and moral order of life in the Arabian Peninsula. For Muhammad, although pre-Islamic Arabia exemplified \"heedlessness,\" it was not entirely without merit. Muhammad approved and exhorted certain aspects of the Arab pre-Islamic tradition, such as the care for one's near kin, for widows, orphans, and others in need and for the establishment of justice. However, these values would be re-ordered in importance and placed in the context of strict monotheism.\n\nFurthermore, a Muslim should not only follow these five main characteristics, but also be more broad about his morals. Therefore, the more the Muslim is applying these rules, the better that person is morally. For example,Islamic ethics can be applied by important verses in the Quran . The most fundamental characteristics of a Muslim are piety and humility. A Muslim must be humble with God and with other people:\n\n“And turn not your face away from people (with pride), nor walk in insolence through the earth. Verily, God likes not each arrogant boaster. And be moderate (or show no insolence) in your walking, and lower your voice. Verily, the harshest of all voices is the voice (braying) of the ass.” (Quran 31:18-19)\n\nMuslims must be in controls of their passions and desires.\n\nA Muslim should not be vain or attached to the ephemeral pleasures of this world. While most people allow the material world to fill their hearts, Muslims should keep God in their hearts and the material world in their hand. Instead of being attached to the car and the job and the diploma and the bank account, all these things become tools to make us better people.\nMorality in Islam addresses every aspect of a Muslim's life, from greetings to international relations. It is universal in its scope and in its applicability. Morality reigns in selfish desires, vanity and bad habits. Muslims must not only be virtuous, but they must also enjoin virtue. They must not only refrain from evil and vice, but they must also forbid them. In other words, they must not only be morally healthy, but they must also contribute to the moral health of society as a whole.\n\n“You are the best of the nations raised up for (the benefit of) men; you enjoin what is right and forbid the wrong and believe in God; and if the followers of the Book had believed it would have been better for them; of them (some) are believers and most of them are transgressors.” (Quran: 3:110)\n\nMuhammad summarized the conduct of a Muslim when he said:\n\n“My Sustainer has given me nine commands: to remain conscious of God, whether in private or in public; to speak justly, whether angry or pleased; to show moderation both when poor and when rich, to reunite friendship with those who have broken off with me; to give to him who refuses me; that my silence should be occupied with thought; that my looking should be an admonition; and that I should command what is right.”\n\nJewish ethics may be said to originate with the Hebrew Bible, its broad legal injunctions, wisdom narratives and prophetic teachings. Most subsequent Jewish ethical claims may be traced back to the texts, themes and teachings of the written Torah.\n\nIn early rabbinic Judaism, the Oral Torah both interprets the Hebrew Bible and delves afresh into many other ethical topics. The best known rabbinic text associated with ethics is the non-legal Mishnah tractate of \"Avot\", popularly translated as \"Ethics of the Fathers\". Generally, ethics is a key aspect of non-legal rabbinic literature, known as aggadah, and ethical teachings are found throughout the more legal (halakhic) portions of the Mishnah, Talmud and other rabbinic literature. This early Rabbinic ethics shows signs of cross-fertilization and polemical exchange with both the Greek (Western philosophical) ethical tradition and early Christian tradition.\n\nIn the medieval period, direct Jewish responses to Greek ethics may be seen in major rabbinic writings. Notably, Maimonides offers a Jewish interpretation of Aristotle (e.g., \"Nicomachean Ethics\"), who enters into Jewish discourse through Islamic writings. Maimonides, in turn, influences Thomas Aquinas, a dominant figure in Catholic ethics and the natural law tradition of moral theology. The relevance of natural law to medieval Jewish philosophy is a matter of dispute among scholars.\n\nEthics in systematic form, and apart from religious belief, is as little found in apocryphal or Judæo-Hellenistic literature as in the Bible. However, Greek philosophy greatly influenced Alexandrian writers such as the authors of IV Maccabees, the Book of Wisdom, and Philo.\n\nMuch progress in theoretical ethics came as Jews came into closer contact with the Hellenic world. Before that period the Wisdom literature shows a tendency to dwell solely on the moral obligations and problems of life as appealing to man as an individual, leaving out of consideration the ceremonial and other laws which concern only the Jewish nation. From this point of view Ben Sira's collection of sayings and monitions was written, translated into Greek, and circulated as a practical guide. The book contains popular ethics in proverbial form as the result of everyday life experience, without higher philosophical or religious principles and ideals.\n\nMore developed ethical works emanated from Hasidean circles in the Maccabean time, such as are contained in Tobit, especially in Chapter IV. Here the first ethical will or testament is found, giving a summary of moral teachings, with the Golden Rule, \"Do that to no man which thou hatest!\" as the leading maxim. There are even more elaborate ethical teachings in the \"Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs\", in which each of the twelve sons of Jacob, in his last words to his children and children's children, reviews his life and gives them moral lessons, either warning them against a certain vice he had been guilty of, so that they may avoid divine punishment, or recommending them to cultivate a certain virtue he had practised during life, so that they may win God's favor. The chief virtues recommended are love for one's fellow man, industry, especially in agricultural pursuits, simplicity, sobriety, benevolence toward the poor, compassion even for the brute and avoidance of all passion, pride, and hatred. Similar ethical farewell monitions are attributed to Enoch in the Ethiopic Enoch (xciv. et seq.) and the Slavonic Enoch (lviii. et seq.) and to the three patriarchs.\n\nThe Hellenistic Jewish propaganda literature made the propagation of Jewish ethics taken from the Bible its main object for the sake of winning the pagan world to pure monotheism. It was owing to this endeavor that certain ethical principles were laid down as guiding maxims for the Gentiles, first of all the three capital sins, idolatry, murder, and incest, were prohibited (see Sibyllines, iii. 38, 761; iv. 30 et seq.). In later Jewish rabbinic literature these Noachide Laws were gradually developed into six, seven, and ten, or thirty laws of ethics binding upon every human being.\n\nGermanic Neopagans, including followers of both Asatru and Theodism, try to emulate the ethical values of the ancient Germanic peoples (Norse or Anglo-Saxon) through the form of the Nine Noble Virtues.\n\nScientology ethics is based upon the concepts of good and evil. Ethics may be defined as the actions an individual takes on itself to ensure its continued survival across the dynamics.\n\nSecular ethics is a moral philosophy in which ethics are based solely on human faculties such as scientific reason, sociobiological composition, or ethical intuition, and not derived from purported supernatural revelation or guidance. Secular ethics comprise a wide variety of moral and ethical systems including consequentialism, freethinking, humanism, secular humanism, and utilitarianism, among others.\n\nThe majority of secular moral concepts are based on the acceptance of natural rights and social contracts, and on a more individual scale of either some form of attribution of intrinsic value to things, Kantianesque ethical intuitionism or of a logical deduction that establishes a preference for one thing over another, as with Occam's razor. Approaches such as ethical egoism, moral relativism, moral skepticism, and moral nihilism are also considered.\n\nShinto beliefs start with an assumption of the inherent goodness of humans as descendants of the \"kami\". By the 6th century CE, Shinto had drawn from a Chinese idea that good people will adhere to societal norms, and emperors have a divine mandate to bring about the \"desirable and required order\". Shinto adherents are to \"realize and carry out the will of the \"kami\" and the ancestors in the family, the community, and the nation\".\n\nAlthough State Shinto reinforced subordination to the emperor and the state, Shrine Shinto is a situation-based ethical system that emphasizes right actions toward others, versus adherence to a specific belief system. Shrine Shinto also stresses gratefulness for \"blessings of the \"kami\"\", and maintaining harmony with the emperor and the world.\n\nWiccan morality is largely based on the Wiccan Rede: 'An' it harm none, do what ye will' -- old-fashioned language for 'as long as you aren't harming anyone, do as you wish'. While this could be interpreted to mean \"do no harm at all\", it is usually interpreted as a declaration of the freedom to act, along with the necessity of thinking through and taking responsibility for the consequences of one's actions.\n\nAnother element of Wiccan Morality comes from the Law of Threefold Return, which is understood to mean that whatever one does to another person or thing (benevolent or otherwise) returns with triple force.\n\nMany Wiccans also seek to cultivate a set of eight virtues mentioned in Doreen Valiente's \"Charge of the Goddess\", these being mirth, reverence, honour, humility, strength, beauty, power and compassion. In Valiente's poem they are ordered in pairs of complementary opposites, reflecting a dualism that is common throughout Wiccan philosophy.\n\nGoing for Refuge & Taking the Precepts\" (The Wheel Publication No. 282/284). Kandy, Sri Lanka: Buddhist Publication Society. (Originally published 1981 and transcribed for Internet publication in 1994.) Retrieved 2007-11-12 from \"Access to Insight\" at http://www.accesstoinsight.org/lib/authors/bodhi/wheel282.html.\n\n"}
{"id": "10511470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10511470", "title": "Federation of the Universities of the Islamic World", "text": "Federation of the Universities of the Islamic World\n\nThe Federation of the Universities of the Islamic World (FUIW; Arabic: اتحاد جامعات العالم الإسلامي) is an organisation working within the framework of the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (ISESCO) to support universities and higher education institutions in the Islamic world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25285049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25285049", "title": "Gary Rosenblatt", "text": "Gary Rosenblatt\n\nGary Rosenblatt is the editor and publisher of \"The Jewish Week\" of New York, a position he has held since 1993. Previously he was the editor of the \"Baltimore Jewish Times\" for 19 years. Rosenblatt is the father of musician Dov.\n\nIn 1972, Charles \"Chuck\" Buerger, the grandson of the founder of the \"Baltimore Jewish Times\", became the weekly's publisher. In 1974 he hired Gary Rosenblatt as editor. The two expanded the scope of the paper's coverage, as well as the size; in the 1980s the paper regularly exceeded 200 pages, and circulation peaked at over 20,000. In 1984 Buerger acquired \"The Jewish News of Detroit\", and Rosenblatt was named editor, in addition to his responsibilities in Baltimore. In 1988 Buerger bought \"The Atlanta Jewish Times\", adding Rosenblatt as editor there as well. The Detroit and Atlanta papers were given similar makeovers, including an emphasis on more and deeper local reporting and enhanced graphics, before Rosenblatt left for \"The Jewish Week\" in 1993.\n\nWhile at the \"Baltimore Jewish Times\", Rosenblatt published an article on September 14, 1984 titled \"The Simon Wiesenthal Center: State-of-the-art Activism or Hollywood Hype?\" analyzing whether Wiesenthal Center officials were truthful in marketing their Holocaust museum as a non-sectarian, humanitarian institution in order to receive funding from the state of California.\n\nThis article was one of two finalists for the Pulitzer Prize in the category of Special Reporting in 1985. The honor marked the first time an article in a Jewish publication was cited in the Pulitzer competition.\n\nOn June 23, 2000, \"The Jewish Week\" published an article by Rosenblatt titled \"Stolen Innocence,\" investigating a long list of sexual harassment charges against Orthodox rabbi Baruch Lanner, an Orthodox Union educator who worked closely with teenagers for more than three decades. The article also reported that the Orthodox Union was aware of Lanner's behavior but chose not take any action. On learning of the newspaper's investigation—which included on-the-record interviews with many of Lanner's victims—OU officials asked Rosenblatt not to go to press, but he did anyway. Later, the OU forced the rabbi to resign and commissioned an independent inquiry; two congregations suspended their OU membership in protest; more victims came forward and filed complaints with local prosecutors; at least two rabbis used their pulpits to castigate the paper and a major advertiser threatened to lead a boycott.\n\nLanner was arrested, and on June 27, 2002 he was convicted of sexually abusing two teenage girls in incidents dating back to 1992 and 1997. He was sentenced to seven years in prison. An appeals court dismissed one of the child endangerment charges in 2005. He was released on parole on January 10, 2008, and will remain on parole for four years.\n\n\"The Jewish Week\" received both praise for its reporting as well as criticism from the New York Jewish community.\n\n"}
{"id": "5764521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5764521", "title": "Gauchito Gil", "text": "Gauchito Gil\n\nThe Gauchito Gil (literally \"Little Gaucho Gil\") is a legendary character of Argentina's popular culture. His real name was Antonio Mamerto Gil Núñez and he was allegedly born in the area of Pay Ubre, nowadays Mercedes, Corrientes, possibly in the 1840s, and died on 8 January 1878.\nHe is regarded as the most prominent folk hero in Argentina, with smaller areas of veneration reported in Paraguay, Chile and Brazil.\n\nPopular accounts vary, but in broad terms the legend tells that Antonio Gil was born in the 1840s as a farm worker in a ranch and a devout believer in the folk saint San La Muerte. It is said that the owner of the ranch, a wealthy widow named Estrella Diaz Miraflores, fell in love, or had an affair, with him, but when her brothers and the head of the local police (who was also in love with Miraflores) found out about their relationship, they accused him of robbery and tried to kill him. He enlisted in the army to escape from them, fighting against the Paraguayan army. When the war ended, he returned home and was welcomed as a hero.\n\nBut when he arrived at his village, he was forcibly recruited by the Colorados to return to the army and fight in the Argentine Civil War against the Liberal parties. Once he was tired of fighting, he decided to desert and became an outlaw. In the years following his desertion, he acquired a reputation as a Robin Hood figure, for his efforts to protect and help the needy, the poor, and those who suffered in extreme poverty. Many locals stated that \"Gauchito\" Gil had miraculous healing powers and the ability of hypnosis, and that he was apparently immune to bullets.\n\nOn January 8, 1878, the local police, led by Colonel Velázquez, caught him hiding in a forest after a party and took him about 8 kilometers away from Mercedes. There, they tortured him over a fire and hanged him from his feet on an \"algarrobo\" tree, preparing to execute him. When the police sergeant was about to kill him, Gauchito Gil said to him: \"You are going to kill me now, but you will arrive in Mercedes tonight at the same time as a letter of my pardon. In the letter they will also tell you that your son is dying of a strange illness. If you pray and beg me to save your child, I promise you that he will live. If not, he will die.\" The sergeant laughed at this, and responded, \"I don't care,\" and killed Gauchito Gil by slitting his throat.\n\nWhen the sergeant returned to his village, he found a soldier there with a letter of pardon for Gil. The letter also said that the sergeant's son was very ill and on the brink of dying. Frightened, the sergeant prayed to Gauchito Gil for his son to be saved. The next day, his son was inexplicably cured; Gauchito Gil had healed the son of his murderer. Very grateful, the sergeant gave Gil's body a proper burial, and in his honor built a shrine in the form of a red cross. Moreover, he tried to let everybody know about the miracle.\n\nGauchito Gil is thought to be a folk saint by many people of the Argentine provinces of Formosa, Corrientes, Chaco, the north of Santa Fe and even the province of Buenos Aires. One can spot smaller shrines of Gauchito Gil on roadsides throughout Argentina due to the red color and the flags, many of which read \"Thanks, Gauchito Gil\" if the person's request is fulfilled. The Sanctuary of Gauchito Gil (located about 8 km from the city of Mercedes) organizes great pilgrimages, to which more than 200,000 pilgrims annually head to the sanctuary to ask to the saint for favors. The Sanctuary has a mausoleum which holds the actual tomb of Gauchito Gil; plaques adorn the walls and state the names of those whose requests were granted by the saint.\n\nMoreover, each January 8 (date of Gil's death and his feast day), there is a large celebration honoring Gauchito Gil. Many pilgrims arrive and participate in festive activities, such as drinking, dancing, folklorical animal sports, and a procession that begins from the church in Mercedes to the Sanctuary. Paraphernalia related to the saint, including ribbons, rosaries, flags and statues, are often carried by the pilgrims and sold by vendors. Gauchito Gil statues are commonly seen next to images of San La Muerte, Our Lady of Luján and other Catholic figures.\n\nGauchito Gil is not recognized as a saint by the Catholic Church, though many Argentines, both devotees and church leaders, have been promoting him for canonization. Local church leaders in Mercedes hold masses on his feast day in the \"Church of Our Lady of Mercy\". Other church leaders in Argentina have participated and approved of the devotion of Gauchito Gil, while some are divided on whether to embrace or condemn the phenomenon. The Diocese of Goya and the Mexican Diocese of Celaya have both recognized the veneration of Gauchito Gil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2514185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514185", "title": "Great Duke", "text": "Great Duke\n\nIn traditional demonological discourse, Great Duke (also Grand Duke or simply Duke) is a rank, denoting a position of prominence amongst the hierarchy of demons. The title of Great Duke reflects the inclination of Christian demonologists to categorize the denizens of Hell into hierarchical systems akin to those of the Monarchies of Europe, and mirroring the angelic hierarchy.\n\n"}
{"id": "26984114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26984114", "title": "Ha-Yom", "text": "Ha-Yom\n\nHa-Yom (, \"The Day\") was a Hebrew-language newspaper published from 1886 to mid-1888 from Saint Petersburg, Russia. It was founded and edited by Jehuda Löb Kantor. \"Ha-Yom\" was the first daily Hebrew newspaper. When it was launched \"Ha-Yom\" had a daily circulation of around 2,400. By 1887 the number of subscribers had fallen to around 1,600.\n\n\"Ha-Yom\" was characterized by a modern, Europeanized form of journalism, previously unknown in the Hebrew-language press. It was the first Hebrew-language newspaper to rely on telegraphic news agency material for its coverage. Moreover, Kantor contracted correspondents in Jewish centres in Western Europe and the United States. Prominent contributors to \"Ha-Yom\" included D. Frischman, A. Rosenfeld and L. Katzenelson. \n\nThe launching and initial success of \"Ha-Yom\" provoked the existing Hebrew-language publications \"Ha-Meliz\" and \"Ha-Tsefirah\" to convert themselves into daily newspapers. Competition with Aleksander Zederbaum's \"Ha-Meliz\" became fierce. Prior to the founding of \"Ha-Yom\", \"Ha-Meliz\" had monopolized the Jewish press in the Russia. The fact that \"Ha-Yom\" subscribed to the \"Northern Company\" telegraphic news agency forced \"Ha-Meliz\" to do the same. The subscription costs (3,000 rubles per year) became a heavy economic burden for both publications.\n\nAt an early stage \"Ha-Yom\" became the newspaper of choice of many followers of the Lovers of Zion movement. However, \"Ha-Meliz\" was able to convince a large portion of them to shift their subscriptions back to \"Ha-Meliz\", thus significantly undercutting the popularity of \"Ha-Yom\".\n\nIn 1887 the literary \"Ben-Ami\" (\"Son of my people\") was introduced as a monthly supplement to \"Ha-Yom\". Four issues of \"Ben-Ami\" were published.\n\nThe last few editions of \"Ha-Yom\" were edited by J. L. Gordon. After \"Ha-Yom\" was closed down, Kantor became the editor of \"Ha-Meliz\" in 1889.\n\n"}
{"id": "27286186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27286186", "title": "High Priest of Ra", "text": "High Priest of Ra\n\nThe High Priest of Ra or of Re was known in Egyptian as the \"wr-mꜢw\", which translates as Greatest of Seers.\n\nThe main cult of Ra was in ancient Heliopolis, northeast of present-day Cairo. The high priests of Ra are not as well documented as the high priests of other deities such as Amun and Ptah.\n\n\n\n\nThe Al-Masalla area of the Al-Matariyyah district, the site of Heliopolis, contains the underground tombs of High Priests of Re of the Sixth Dynasty (2345 BCE—2181 BCE), which were found in the southeast corner of the great Temple of Re—Atum archaeological site. The ancient Masalla Obelisk, or El-Misalla (, trans. obelisk), in Al-Matariyyah is the only surviving element standing of the Re—Atum Temple, constructed by Pharaoh Senusret I (1971 BCE—1926 BCE) of the Twelfth Dynasty. \n"}
{"id": "45425281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45425281", "title": "Hinduism in Tonga", "text": "Hinduism in Tonga\n\nHinduism in Tonga has a small presence, with 200 followers according to the 2011 census. Some of these followers are Fijian. Hinduism has grown along with Buddhism, with its numbers almost doubling from 104 (or 0.1% of the population) to 200 followers (0.2%) from 2006 to 2011.\n\nHinduism has only been recognized as having a presence in Tonga for a short amount of time. The 1986 and 1996 Tongan Censuses did not include Hinduism as they only included the Tongan and part Tongan population. 2006 was the first time that Hinduism showed up in the Tongan Census, with 104 affiliating themselves as \"Hindus\". The next census in 2011 showed 200 Hindus (up 96), placing Hinduism ahead of Islam (24, down 23) and Buddhism (183, up 112). The 2011 census also showed that Hinduism had more than 1/4 of the followers of the Bahá'í Faith in Tonga (777, up 91), which was established in 1953 and grew rapidly in the 20th century.\n\nHinduism is expected to surpass the Gospel Church, whose followers declined from 243 in the 2006 Census to 236 people in the 2011 Census.\n"}
{"id": "53354963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53354963", "title": "Iglesia de San Andrés, Toledo", "text": "Iglesia de San Andrés, Toledo\n\nThe iglesia de San Andrés is a church located in the city of Toledo, in Castile-La Mancha, Spain. The iglesia de San Andrés, as is common in this city, is a mix of different styles. On the one hand, there are present Mudéjar and Gothic architecture, and also, the Baroque, following a remodeling of the 17th century. After the last restoration traceries appeared in the facade that evoke the eclecticism of the croissing. A Visigoth relief and two Visigothic pilasters was also discovered.\n\nAs of the most of the Mudéjar churches in Toledo, present a simple aspect.\n\nIts main entrance, unique in Toledo, in of Almohad style bearing uncommon small green ceramic in columns on the door. The capitals are Visigoths, Its Mosque past is being represented by a funeral pilaster.\n\nDuring the 16th Century its solid late gothic head was added, with exterior buttresses that compensate for the considerable change in height, while its interior features a vault and palm arch ribs with honeycomb work in the transept naves.\n\nIn the crypt of this church 60 mummies of infantes, dukes, nuns and people of popular class, are preserved in a good state of preservation. Are open to the visitor.\n\n"}
{"id": "39080689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39080689", "title": "Irreligion in Iran", "text": "Irreligion in Iran\n\nIrreligion in Iran is marginalized and by official 2011 census, 265,899 persons didn't state any religion (0.3% of total population). However, in reality the number of nonpracticing Muslims is significantly higher. Under Iranian law, apostasy from Islam is punishable by death. Non-religious Iranians are officially unrecognized by the government, and one must declare oneself as a member of one of the four recognized faiths in order to avail oneself of many of the rights of citizenship. Citizens of the Islamic Republic of Iran are officially divided into four categories: Muslims, Zoroastrians, Jews and Christians. This official division ignores other religious minorities in Iran, notably those of the Bahá'í faith. Bahá’ís are a \"non-recognized\" religious minority without any legal existence. They are classified as \"unprotected infidels\" by the authorities, and are subject to systematic discrimination on the basis of their beliefs. \n\nThe topic of irreligion in Iran is often a political one. Mehdi Bazargan noted \"to oppose Islam to Iranian nationalism is tantamount to destroying ourselves. To deny Iranian identity and consider nationalism irreligious is part and parcel of the anti-Iranian movement and is the work of the anti-revolutionaries\". According to the Ali Reza Eshraghi, religious pressure and inadequate governing from the Iranian government have made Iranian people less religious. Some Iranian feminists have also been noted as being irreligious and atheistic.\n\nIrreligious Iranian youth aim to moderate Iranian government policy, and the Iranian youth are among the most politically active among the 57 nations of the Islamic world. As the most restive segment of Iranian society, the young also represent one of the greatest long-term threats to the current form of theocratic rule. After the 2009 presidential election, youth was the biggest bloc involved in the region’s first sustained “people power” movement for democratic change, creating a new political dynamic in the Middle East. Iran is one of the most tech-savvy societies in the developing world, with an estimated 28 million Internet users, led by youth. Most young Iranians are believed to want to be part of the international community and globalization.\n\nIran was reported by \"The Washington Post\" to be among the thirteen countries where atheism can attract capital punishment. The last noted legal execution for apostasy in Iran was in 2014, when Mohsen Amir-Aslani was convicted and executed for making \"innovations in religion\" and insulting the Prophet Jonah. Furthermore, many people, such as Youcef Nadarkhani, Saeed Abedini have been recently harassed, jailed and sentenced to death for apostasy.\n\n\nAccording to Harvard University professor Robert D. Putnam, the average Iranian-American is slightly less religious than the average American. Iranian-Americans are distancing themselves from Islam, having accepted the negative characteristics associated with the religion. This is due to Islam being imposed on the Iranians through war and invasion, equating to authoritarianism, brutality and corruption. In the book, \"Social Movements in 20th Century Iran: Culture, Ideology, and Mobilizing Frameworks\", author Stephen C. Poulson adds that Western ideas are making Iranians irreligious.\n\nNearly as many Iranian Americans identify as irreligious as Muslim, and a full one-fifth are Christians, Jews, Baha’is, or Zoroastrians. Additionally, the number of Muslim Iranian-Americans decreased from 42% in 2008 to 31% in 2012.\n\nThe Central Committee for Ex-Muslims was founded by Dutch-Iranian Ehsan Jami with an aim to support apostates and to bring attention to women's rights violations.\nA British-Iranian organisation, “Iranian Atheists Association”, has been established in 2013 to form a platform for Iranian atheists to start debate and question the current Islamic republic’s attitude towards atheists, apostasy and human rights. A significant number of Iranians abroad, especially Iranian-Americans, are irreligious, agnostic or atheist.\n"}
{"id": "1187375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1187375", "title": "Islam in Sudan", "text": "Islam in Sudan\n\nIslam is the largest religion in Sudan, and Muslims have dominated national government institutions since independence in 1956. According to UNDP Sudan, the Muslim population is 97%, including numerous Arab and non-Arab groups. The remaining 3% ascribe to either Christianity or traditional animist religions. Muslims predominate in all but Nuba Mountains region. The vast majority of Muslims in Sudan adhere to Sunni Islam of Maliki school of jurisprudence, deeply influenced with Sufism, making Sudan one of the most tolerant Muslim majority countries in the world. There are also some Shia communities in Khartoum, the capital. The most significant divisions occur along the lines of the Sufi brotherhoods. Two popular brotherhoods, the Ansar and the Khatmia, are associated with the opposition Umma and Democratic Unionist Parties respectively. Only the Darfur region is traditionally lacking the presence of Sufi brotherhoods found in the rest of the country.\n\nShari'a law has been installed by various military regimes, and its application to non-Muslims in the capital was a contentious issue during the negotiations, but it and the other major issues underlying the north/south conflict have been largely resolved in the agreements [citation needed]. Shari'a is to continue to be the basis of the national legal system as it applies in the north; national legislation applicable to the south is to be based on \"popular consensus, the values, and the customs of the people.\" In states or regions where a majority hold different religious or customary beliefs than those on which the legal system is based, the national laws may be amended to accord better with such beliefs. Throughout the country, the application of Shari'a to non-Muslims is to be limited, and courts may not exercise their discretion to impose the harsher physical forms of Shari'a penalties on non-Muslims. Sudan has had three democratic governments since 1956, all of which abolished Shari'a law.\n\nThere had been cultural contact between Nubians and Arabs long before the rise of Islam.\nIslam spread to Sudan from the north, after the Islamic conquest of Egypt.\nNubia had already been Christianized, also from Egypt, hence the old Nubian church followed Coptic Christianity.\nThe Nubian Christian kingdoms of Nobatia, Makuria and Alodia fell to the Islamic invasions in 650, 1312 and 1504, respectively. From 1504, northern Sudan was ruled by the Muslim Funj Sultanate.\n\nSouthern Sudan, i.e. South Kordofan and what is now South Sudan, is part of Sub-Saharan Africa and was neither Christianized nor Islamized until the 19th century.\nThis region fell under Islamic rule under Muhammad Ali, and there has been religious and ethnic conflict ever since; the Mahdiyah uprisings (1881-1899) can even be seen as the origin of political Islamism and resulted in British control during 1899-1955.\nRacial and religious conflicts between the Arab Muslim north and the Black African Christian South re-erupted in the First Sudanese Civil War (1955-1972), the Second Sudanese Civil War (1983-2005), the War in Darfur (2003-2010) and the ongoing conflict (since 2011).\n\nIn the early 1990s, the largest single category among the Muslim peoples of Sudan consisted of those speaking some form of Arabic. Excluded were a small number of Arabic speakers originating in Egypt and professing Coptic Christianity. In 1983 the people identified as Arabs constituted nearly 70% of the total Sudanese population and nearly 30% of the population of the northern provinces. In some of these provinces (Khartoum, Ash Shamali, Al Awsat), they were overwhelmingly dominant. In others (Kurdufan, Darfur), they were less so but made up a majority. By 1990 Ash Sharqi State was probably largely Arab. It should be emphasized, however, that the acquisition of Arabic as a second language did not necessarily lead to the assumption of Arab identity.\n\nDespite common language, religion, and self-identification, Arabs did not constitute a cohesive group. They were highly differentiated in their modes of livelihood and ways of life. Besides the major distinction dividing Arabs into sedentary and nomadic, there was an old tradition that assigned them to tribes, each said to have a common ancestor.\n\nThe two largest of the supratribal categories in the early 1990s were the Juhayna and the Jaali (or Jaalayin). The Juhayna category consisted of tribes considered nomadic, although many had become fully settled. The Jaali encompassed the riverine, sedentary peoples from Dunqulah to just north of Khartoum and members of this group who had moved elsewhere. Some of its groups had become sedentary only in the twentieth century. Sudanese saw the Jaali as primarily indigenous peoples who were gradually arabized. Sudanese thought the Juhayna were less mixed, although some Juhayna groups had become more diverse by absorbing indigenous peoples. The Baqqara, for example, who moved south and west and encountered the Negroid peoples of those areas were scarcely to be distinguished from them.\n\nA third supratribal division of some importance was the Kawahla, consisting of thirteen tribes of varying size. Of these, eight tribes and segments of the other five were found north and west of Khartoum. There people were more heavily dependent on pastoralism than were the segments of the other five tribes, who lived on either side of the White Nile from south of Khartoum to north of Kosti. This cluster of five groups (for practical purposes independent tribes) exhibited a considerable degree of self-awareness and cohesion in some circumstances, although that had not precluded intertribal competition for local power and status.\nThe ashraf, who claim descent from Muhammad, were found in small groups (lineages) scattered among other Arabs. Most of these lineages had been founded by religious teachers or their descendants. A very small group of descendants of the Funj Dynasty also claimed descent from the Umayyads, an early dynasty of caliphs based in present-day Syria. That claim had little foundation, but it served to separate from other Arabs a small group living on or between the White Nile and the Blue Nile. The term ashraf was also applied in Sudan to the family of Muhammad Ahmad ibn as Sayyid Abd Allah, known as the Mahdi (1848–85).\n\nThe division into Jaali and Juhayna did not appear to have significant effect on the ways in which individuals and groups regarded each other. Conflicts between tribes generally arose from competition for good grazing land, or from the competing demands of nomadic and sedentary tribes on the environment. Among nomadic and recently sedentary Arabs, tribes and subtribes competed for local power.\n\nMembership in tribal and subtribal units is generally by birth, but individuals and groups may also join these units by adoption, clientship, or a decision to live and behave in a certain way. For example, when a sedentary Fur becomes a cattle nomad, he is perceived as a Baqqara. Eventually the descendants of such newcomers are regarded as belonging to the group by birth.\n\nTribal and subtribal units divide the Arab ethnic category vertically, but other distinctions cut across Arab society and its tribal and subtribal components horizontally by differences of social status and power. Still another division is that of religious associations.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Nubians were the second most significant Muslim group in Sudan, their homeland being the Nile River valley in far northern Sudan and southern Egypt. Other, much smaller groups speaking a related language and claiming a link with the Nile Nubians have been given local names, such as the Birqid and the Meidab in Darfur State. Almost all Nile Nubians speak Arabic as a second language; some near Dunqulah have been largely arabized and are referred to as Danaqla.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, in anticipation of the flooding of their lands after the construction of the Aswan High Dam, 35,000 to 50,000 Nile Nubians resettled at Khashm al Qirbah on the Atbarah River in what was then Kassala Province. It is not clear how many Nubians remained in the Nile Valley. Even before the resettlement, many had left the valley for varying lengths of time to work in the towns, although most sought to maintain a link with their traditional homeland. In the 1955-56 census, more Nile Nubians were counted in Khartoum Province than in the Nubian country to the north. A similar pattern of work in the towns was apparently followed by those resettled at Khashm al Qirbah. Many Nubians there retained their tenancies, having kin oversee the land and hiring non-Nubians to work it. The Nubians, often with their families, worked in Khartoum, the town of Kassala, and Port Sudan. Renowned for their prestigious history and their unique and ancient culture, Nubians have the highest degree of literacy and assumed control of vital governmental offices throughout the history of the Sudan. Despite their knowledge of Arabic and their devotion to Islam, Nubians retained a considerable self-consciousness and tended to maintain tightly knit communities of their own in the towns.\n\nThe Beja have lived in the Red Sea Hills since ancient times. Arab influence was not significant until a millennium or so ago, but it has since led the Beja to adopt Islam and genealogies that link them to Arab ancestors, to arabize their names, and to include many Arabic terms in their language. Although some Arabs figure in the ancestry of the Beja, the group is mostly descended from an indigenous population, and they have not become generally arabized. Their language (Bedawiye) links them to Cushitic-speaking peoples farther south.\n\nIn the 1990s, most Beja belonged to one of four groups — the Bisharin, the Amarar, the Hadendowa, and the Bani Amir. The largest group was the Hadendowa, but the Bisharin had the most territory, with settled tribes living on the Atbarah River in the far south of the Beja range and nomads living in the north. A good number of the Hadendowa were also settled and engaged in agriculture, particularly in the coastal region near Tawkar, but many remained nomads. The Amarar, living in the central part of the Beja range, seemed to be largely nomads, as were the second largest group, the Bani Amir, who lived along the border with northern Ethiopia. The precise proportion of nomads in the Beja population in the early 1990s was not known, but it was far greater relatively than the nomadic component of the Arab population. The Beja were characterized as conservative, proud, and aloof even toward other Beja and very reticent in relations with strangers. They were long reluctant to accept the authority of central governments.\n\nThe Fur, ruled until 1916 by an independent sultanate (Darfur) and oriented politically and culturally to peoples in Chad, were a sedentary, cultivating group long settled on and around the Jabal Marrah. Although the ruling dynasty and the peoples of the area had long been Muslims, they have not been arabized. Livestock has played a small part in the subsistence of most Fur. Those who acquired a substantial herd of cattle could maintain it only by living like the neighboring Baqqara Arabs, and those who persisted in this pattern eventually came to be thought of as Baqqara.\n\nLiving on the plateau north of the Fur were the seminomadic people calling themselves Beri and known to the Arabs as Zaghawa. Large numbers of the group lived in Chad. Herders of cattle, camels, sheep, and goats, the Zaghawa also gained a substantial part of their livelihood by gathering wild grains and other products. Cultivation had become increasingly important but remained risky, and the people reverted to gathering in times of drought. Converted to Islam, the Zaghawa nevertheless retain much of their traditional religious orientation.\n\nOf other peoples living in Darfur who spoke Nilo-Saharan languages and are Muslim, the most important were the Masalit, Daju, and Berti. All were primarily cultivators living in permanent villages, but they practiced animal husbandry in varying degrees. The Masalit, living on the Sudan-Chad border, were the largest group. Historically under a minor sultanate, they were positioned between the two dominant sultanates of the area, Darfur and Wadai (in Chad). A part of the territory they occupied had been formerly controlled by the Fur, but the Masalit gradually encroached on it in the first half of the twentieth century in a series of local skirmishes carried out by villages on both sides, rather than the sultanates. In 1990-91 much of Darfur was in a state of anarchy, with many villages being attacked. There were many instances in which Masalit militias attacked Fur and other villages.\n\nThe Berti consisted of two groups. One lived northeast of Al Fashir; the other had migrated to East Darfur and West Kurdufan provinces in the nineteenth century. The two Berti groups did not seem to share a sense of common identity and interest. Members of the western group, in addition to cultivating subsistence crops and practicing animal husbandry, gathered gum arabic for sale in local markets. The Berti language had largely given way to Arabic as a home language.\n\nThe term Daju was a linguistic designation that was applied to a number of groups scattered from western Kurdufan and southwestern Darfur states to eastern Chad. These groups called themselves by different names and exhibited no sense of common identity.\n\nLiving in Sudan in 1990 were nearly a million people of West African origin. Together, West Africans who have become Sudanese nationals and resident nonnationals from West Africa made up 6.5% of the Sudanese population. In the mid-1970s, West Africans had been estimated at more than 10% of the population of the northern provinces. Some were descendants of persons who had arrived five generations or more earlier; others were recent immigrants. Some had come in self-imposed exile, unable to accommodate to the colonial power in their homeland. Others had been pilgrims to Mecca, settling either en route or on their return. Many came over decades in the course of the great dispersion of the nomadic Fulani; others arrived, particularly after World War II, as rural and urban laborers or to take up land as peasant cultivators.\n\nNearly 60% of people included in the West African category were said to be of Nigerian origin (locally called Borno after the Nigerian emirate that was their homeland). Given Hausa dominance in northern Nigeria and the widespread use of their language there and elsewhere, some non-Hausa might also be called Hausa and describe themselves as such. But the Hausa themselves, particularly those long in Sudan, preferred to be called Takari. The Fulani, even more widely dispersed throughout West Africa, may have originated in states other than Nigeria. Typically, the term applied to the Fulani in Sudan was Fallata, but Sudanese also used that term for other West Africans.\n\nThe Fulani nomads were found in many parts of central Sudan from Darfur to the Blue Nile, and they occasionally competed with indigenous populations for pasturage. In Darfur groups of Fulani origin adapted in various ways to the presence of the Baqqara tribes. Some retained all aspects of their culture and language. A few had become much like Baqqara in language and in other respects, although they tended to retain their own breeds of cattle and ways of handling them. Some of the Fulani groups in the eastern states were sedentary, descendants of sedentary Fulani of the ruling group in northern Nigeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "26734822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26734822", "title": "Lake of Cutilia", "text": "Lake of Cutilia\n\nLake Cutiliensis (modern Lago di Paterno) is a lake located in the municipality of Castel Sant'Angelo, near the ancient Reate, now Rieti. In antiquity it was sacred to the Sabines. Varro, who came from Reate, called it the \"navel of Italy\".\n\nThe lake took its name from the town of Cutiliae or Cutilium which was situated on its shores, at the foot of a mountain. In his work \"De Lingua Latina\", Varro writes that it was inhabited by the \"lymphae commotiles\" or \"commotiae\", nymphs whose presence is explained by the floating island found there. Pliny says much the same.\n\nIn his book about theories on the origin of the Saturnalia, Macrobius narrates that the Pelasgians, one of the earliest people who inhabited Latium, had been expelled from their original territory and, having wandered through many places, at last arrived in great numbers at Dodona in Epirus. There they asked the local oracle where they could settle permanently. The oracle's \"responsum\" was that they should go to the Saturnian land of the Siculi and Aborigines, to Cutilia, where there was a floating island. They were to expel the locals, then sacrifice a tenth of whatever they had taken as booty \"(praeda)\" to Phoebus and to Hades. Human captives were explicitly included: they were instructed to \"send the heads and \"phota\" ('lights,' also 'lives') to the father\".\n\nHaving followed the instructions of the oracle, they arrived at Lake of Cutilia and occupied the island. This island was formed by overgrown plants and its growth had been favoured by the murkiness of this marsh, as was said to have been of Delos.\n\nAfter expelling the Siculi the Pelasgians occupied the lands. They offered as a sacrifice to Apollo the tenth part of the prey and built a shrine to Dis and an altar to Saturn, naming the feast \"Saturnalia\" after him. They continued for a long time to perform human sacrifices in order to offer heads to placate Dis and Saturn, until Hercules came to those lands and persuaded their descendents to replace the human heads with masks and to honour the altar of Saturn with lamps, since \"phota\", \"lights,\" may mean \"lamps\" as well as the \"light\" of men's lives.\n\nThe waters of a spring near the lake were extremely cold and supposed to be medicinal: they were considered good for the stomach and nerves. They acted by a kind of suction the feeling of which approached that of a bite. The Emperor Vespasian used to come every summer to drink the waters, and he died there. His son emperor Titus too died there.\n\nThe place was an enclosed area (\"locum saeptum\": fenced place) considered sacred and was inhabited by an oracle influential among the Sabines. Sometimes the Sabine migrations known as the \"ver sacrum\" started from this place: a famous instance is that of the seven thousand \"sacrales\" led by Comus (or Cominus) Castronius who founded Bovianum following the steps of an ox, thus giving rise to the Samnite nation.\n"}
{"id": "18533059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18533059", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Mozambique", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Mozambique\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Mozambique is composed of three ecclesiastical provinces and 9 suffragan dioceses.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17635462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17635462", "title": "List of atheists in science and technology", "text": "List of atheists in science and technology\n\nThis is a list of atheists in science and technology. Per wikipedia policy , persons in this list are people (living or not) who have publicly identified themselves as atheists or have been historically known to be atheists and whose \"atheism is relevant to their notable activities or public life\". A mere statement by a person that he or she does not believe in God does not meet the criteria for inclusion on this list. Their atheism must be relevant to their notable activities or public life in order to be included on this list.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6211830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6211830", "title": "List of bishops of Făgăraș and Alba Iulia", "text": "List of bishops of Făgăraș and Alba Iulia\n\nThis is a list of Bishops of Făgăraș and Alba Iulia, who are the Primates of Romanian Church United with Rome, Greek-Catholic.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1494697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1494697", "title": "Madonna House Apostolate", "text": "Madonna House Apostolate\n\nThe Madonna House Apostolate\" is a Catholic Christian community of lay men, women, and priests dedicated to loving and serving Jesus Christ in all aspects of everyday life. It was founded in 1947 by Baroness Catherine Doherty in Combermere, Ontario and has established missionary field houses worldwide.\n\nMadonna House was founded by Baroness Catherine and Eddie Doherty in Combermere, Ontario in 1947. The apostolate has since grown to establish eighteen \"field houses\" in six countries.\n\nStaff workers of the Madonna House Apostolate live in voluntary poverty. Donations of clothing, food, goods and money come from a variety of sources enabling them to live out their promise of poverty, and better identify with the poor whom they serve. As a celibate community, the men, women and priests live in separate dormitories and generally work in separate departments, but gather together for all daily meals and religious services.\n\nMembers of the Madonna House community live a simple daily routine beginning with a brief prayer service, followed by a day of work, and ending with Mass and dinner. Work at the main house generally consists of the day-to-day maintenance of the community, care of a farm, and the sorting and distribution of donations to the poor.\n\nThe spirituality of the Madonna House Apostolate is summarized in The Little Mandate, a \"distillation\" of the Gospel message of Jesus Christ brought forth by the apostolate's foundress. Some members of the apostolate live in \"poustinia\", meaning a small, sparsely furnished cabin or room (the term \"poustinia\" has its roots in the Russian word for \"desert\"). For these few staff workers, their voluntary life as \"poustiniks\" is somewhat like that of a hermit, though less strict.\n\nMadonna House welcomes guests into their community, allowing anyone to come and join their daily routine of work and prayer for varying lengths of time at their training centre in Combermere. Also, once a year, a program is offered to families at Madonna House's summer camp called Cana Colony. Cana Colony was begun as a response to the request by Pope Pius XII to Catherine Doherty in 1951 that she and Madonna House would \"always remember the family.\" Cana Colony began the following year and the camp is located at the edge of Bennett Lake.\nFamilies need to come prepared to enjoy an experience of simple and rustic living. A cook-shack is the only place that has electricity and running water. The one-room cabins have no electricity, and all of the jons are outdoor outhouses. Recreational activities include swimming, hiking, fishing, campfires, sing-alongs, etc. All families share in chores to help maintain the camp.\n\nThe main work of the Madonna House Apostolate is serving the poor — both the physically and spiritually poor. Donations sent to the community are redistributed locally and internationally. Through their missionary field houses, Madonna House staff workers serve the needs of the poor in many ways, from \"prayer and listening houses\" to soup kitchens.\n\nThe apostolate maintains a non-profit publications department, Madonna House Publications. It publishes the works of Catherine Doherty and other members of the community as part of its mission to spread the Gospel. The Madonna House monthly newspaper, \"Restoration\", has been in continuous publication since 1947. Madonna House also works to promote the cause for canonization of their foundress, Catherine Doherty, through a newsletter and web site.\n\nRestoration is published by Madonna House Publications. It was founded in 1947 by the American newspaperman Eddie Doherty and his wife, social justice activist Catherine Doherty. The articles and stories in \"Restoration\" are generally drawn from the daily life of the staff of the Madonna House Apostolate, and primarily revolve around the challenges of living the Gospel of Jesus as a Catholic in today's world.\n\nRegular columns include:\n\nThe paper is non-profit, and there is only a small subscription fee to cover the cost of printing and mailing.\n\nMadonna House is a \"public association of the Christian faithful\" under the authority of the bishop of the Diocese of Pembroke, and faithful to the magisterium of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe headquarters (called the \"main house\" or \"training centre\") located in Combermere, Ontario, Canada houses the majority of the apostolate's staff workers.\n\nThe community is overseen by three \"Directors General\" — the Director General of Men, the Director General of Women, and the Director General of Priests — each of whom is elected by the respective segment of the community for four-year terms. The apostolate also has several international missionary \"field houses\", each under the authority of the bishop of the area (and set up at his invitation). Each field house has a \"Local Director,\" appointed by the Director Generals. Local Directors gather yearly at the main house for several weeks of meetings and retreats.\n\nMembers of Madonna House are known as \"staff workers.\" After a two-year period of applicancy, staff workers make year-long promises (not vows) of poverty, chastity and obedience. These promises are renewed yearly, and after seven years staff workers generally make lifelong final promises to the community. Staff workers can be distinguished by the large silver rounded cross they wear on a cord around their necks, bearing the Latin words \"pax caritas\" (for \"peace\" and \"love\").\n\nMadonna house also has a seven month program for discerning the priesthood that runs from the first week of October until Easter. The program's participants have them live and work in the community in a routine similar to volunteer working guests except with the addition of a special class. In addition, the apostolate also accepts priests, bishops and deacons from outside the community as \"Associate Priests\" — although these priests do not participate in the day-to-day workings of the apostolate. The Associate Priests do wear the \"pax caritas\" cross, strive to live \"the Madonna House way of life,\" and meet yearly at the main house for retreats. (There is no corresponding \"associate\" status for lay people.)\n\nThe apostolate's headquarters in Combermere, Ontario includes the Pioneer Museum, a log barn housing historic pioneer artifacts. Items include household items, kitchenware, tools, cobbler and farm implements.\n\nBesides the main training centre in Combermere, Ontario, the Madonna House Apostolate also maintains missionary \"field houses\" in the following places:\n\n\nThe Madonna House in Winslow, Arizona was founded in 1957. Other houses are located in Washington, D.C.; Alpena, Michigan; Raleigh, North Carolina, and Roanoke, Virginia.\n\nThe Madonna House in Robin Hood's Bay, England was established in 1985. Other houses are in Carriacou, Grenada, Krasnoyarsk, Russia and Resteigne, Belgium.\n\nOur Lady of Combermere refers to a statue of Mary erected in 1960 in the village of Combermere, Ontario, Canada.\n\nPrayer to the Virgin Mary under the title of \"Our Lady of Combermere\" began in the late 1940s at the Madonna House Apostolate founded by Catherine Doherty in the small village of Combermere, in Ontario, Canada. As the title began to gain popularity among the apostolate's friends and neighbours, a woman (who claimed to have received an answer to prayer through the use of this title) offered to donate the money required to have a life-sized bronze statue erected for a Marian shrine to Our Lady of Combermere.\n\nCatherine Doherty and her apostolate sought permission for the formal use of this title, as well as the erection of a shrine, from the Bishop of Pembroke, the Most Rev. William J. Smith, who directed them to contact the Sacred Congregation of Rites in Rome. The Congregation of Rites responded, giving the local Bishop the authority to approve the title and shrine. He granted them permission to erect a statue of Mary under the title of \"Our Lady of Combermere\" and to have it blessed.\n\nThe statue itself was sculpted by Frances Rich of Santa Barbara, California. Modelled on an earlier work by Rich entitled \"The Questing Madonna,\" the statue of Our Lady of Combermere depicts the Virgin Mary hastening with arms open wide as if to welcome and embrace the viewer. The statue was officially installed and blessed by the Most Rev. William J. Smith, Bishop of Pembroke, on June 8, 1960.\n\nA number of other, unaffiliated organizations have also adopted the name \"Madonna House\", providing services varying from maternal services to retirement homes, and homeless shelters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2438541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2438541", "title": "Mahar", "text": "Mahar\n\nThe Mahar (also known as Maha, Mehar, Taral, Dhegu Megu) is an Indian community found largely in the state of Maharashtra, where they comprise 6% of the population, and neighbouring areas. Most of the Mahar community followed B. R. Ambedkar in converting to Buddhism in the middle of the 20th century. , the Mahar caste was designated as a Scheduled Caste in 16 Indian states.\n\nThe Mahar caste were considered an Untouchable community by the Hindu castes. However, they were socio-economically well above most other untouchable groups because their traditional role had been important in the village administrative system, had necessitated that they had at least a rudimentary education and frequently brought them into contact with upper-caste Hindus. They lived on the outskirts of villages and their duties included those of village watchman and trackers of thieves, messenger, wall mender, adjudicator of boundary disputes, street sweeper, supplying coarse cloth to the village and removers and processors of carcasses. In return for these services, the village granted them a watan, or rights to small piece of land, to do their own cultivation. The watan also included share of village produce. They also worked at times as agricultural labourers.\n\nDuring the Bhakti era of Hinduism several Mahar saints such as Chokhamela, Karmamela, Banka, Nirmala., Soyarabai and Bhagu became popular.\n\nThe Mahar were subjected to degradation during the rule of the Peshwas, who treated them as untouchables. Specifically, they had to walk with a broom tied to their loincloth to wipe off their foot prints and an earthenware pot tied to their neck so their spit could not fall on the ground thereby polluting the road for hindus. Human sacrifices of the Mahars were common. For example, they could be buried alive under building foundations of Hindus. They were not allowed to move in public places in the mornings or evenings as their long shadows could defile caste hindus.They were not allowed to read and write. According to Mukta Salve, a fourteen year old Mang girl educated by Jyotirao Phule in the 1850s, passing the Talimkhana (local gymnasium) by a Mahar often resulted in his or her head being cut off and literally played with.Those resisting any sanctions could be trampled under an elephant on the grounds of the Peshwa's palace.\n\nUnder British rule, the Mahars became aware of the scope for social and political advancement Their traditional role had been low-status but important in the village system. A number of Mahars joined the army during the early British era.\n\nIn 1873, Jyotirao Phule, the founder of Satyashodhak Samajwhich aimed to abolish religious slavery from the influence of Brahaminical scripturesorganised Mahars. Their first conference was held in Mumbai in 1903. Mahars were not allowed to enter Hindu temples and were considered unclean. Even their entry into the shrines of Hindu gods was restricted.\n\nIn the 20th century, significant numbers left their traditional villages and moved into the urban centres of India in search of better employment and educational opportunities. They gave up their traditional jobs in cities, and to a large extent in rural Maharashtra, and took employment in the mills, docks, construction sites and railways. They created a receptive body of urban workers who were ready to join a political movement for higher status and equality.\n\nThe Mahar served in various armies over several centuries. The Maratha king Shivaji recruited a number of them into his army in the 17th century. They served as guards in hill forts and as soldiers.\n\nDuring the colonial period, large numbers of Mahars were recruited for military duties by the East India Company and the British Raj. The Battle of Koregaon (1 January 1818) is commemorated by an obelisk known as the Koregaon pillarwhich was erected at the site of the battleand by a medal issued in 1851. The pillar featured on the Mahar Regiment crest until the Independence of India; it is inscribed with the names of 22 Mahars killed at the battle.\n\nThe Mahar were initially heavily recruited into the East India company military units, but this process slowed after the Indian Rebellion of 1857. Their recruitment was halted under Lord Kitchener in the early 1890s. Before the rebellion, Mahar regiments made up one-sixth of the Bombay units of the East India Company but thereafter they were pensioned off and gradually removed from military service. Mahar recruitment reached its nadir in the early 1890s (sources differ as to exact year) when Kitchener halted the recruitment of Untouchables in Maharashtra in favour of \"martial races,\" such as the Marathas and other north-western communities. The Mahar community attempted to confront this block with a petition circulated among the Mahar, Chamar, and Mang former soldiersall Marathi-speaking Untouchablesbut the movement was unable to organise and submit their petition. The attempt at a challenge had been spearheaded by Gopal Baba Walangkar, himself a Mahar and former soldier, but he found that Mahar military pensioners were unwilling to sign because they feared that they might lose their pensions.\n\nIn 1941, the Mahar Regiment was formed.\n\n, the Mahar community was designated as a Scheduled Caste (SC) in 16 Indian states, being: Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh Assam, Chhattisgarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal.\n\nMahar is numerically the largest Scheduled Caste in Maharashtra state with 56.2% Buddhists, 43.7% Hindus and 0.1% Sikhs according to 2001 Indian Census.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Otto Weishaupt's attempts to evangelise in the Sangamner area of Ahmadnagar district met with little success with communities such as the Brahmins, Muslims and Bhils but his efforts to promote Christianity did appeal to the Mahars there. There were also some Mahar converts to Christianity in other areas of Ahmednagar district around the early 20th century.\n\nThe Christian conversion movement became overshadowed by the emergence of B. R. Ambedkar's Buddhist equivalent. When he converted to Buddhism at Nagpur in 1956, many Mahars were among those of his followers who chose to do the same. As Buddhists, they gave up their traditional Hindu occupations and sought to redefine their social status. Ambedkar died about two months after this mass conversion. At the same spot, after his cremation, more Mahars were converted to Buddhism. Now, this community is the third most populous in Mumbai.\n\nSome Buddhist leaders among the population prefer that the term \"Mahar\" no longer be applied to these converts. Buddhism appealed to the sense of equality in the Mahar; an intellectual of Mahar origin said, \"I have accepted Buddhist doctrine. I am Buddhist now. I am not Mahar now, not untouchable nor even Hindu. I have become a human being\".\n\nAccording to Eleanor Zelliot, Dalit literature originated in Marathi-speaking areas of Maharashtra. She credits Ambedkar, a Mahar himself, for inspiring many Dalit writers. Baburao Bagul (1930–2008), Shankarrao Kharat, and Bandhu Madhav were early Marathi writers from the Mahar community. The Mahar writer Namdeo Dhasal (who founded Dalit Panther) was significant in the Dalit movement. Other notable Mahar authors writing in Marathi include Shantabai Kamble, Raja Dhale, Daya Pawar, and Narendra Jadhav.\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "33581171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33581171", "title": "Michelina of Pesaro", "text": "Michelina of Pesaro\n\nBlessed Michelina of Pesaro, T.O.S.F., (1300 - 1356) was an Italian Roman Catholic Franciscan tertiary who was later beatified.\n\nMichelina Metelli was born in Pesaro, Italy, to a wealthy Italian family. She married into the noble Malatesta family at the age of 12 and was widowed by age 20. She led a lifestyle of parties and luxury but, after the death of her only son, she experienced a vision of him in heaven, and decided to become a Franciscan penitent.\n\nShe proceeded to give away all her belongings and property, and founded the Confraternity of the Annunciation to care for the poor, nurse the sick and bury the dead. Initially her family believed her to be insane and had her locked up. Upon her release from confinement, she made a pilgrimage to the Holy Land as penance for her sins. It is believed that she received the Stigmata in the course of this journey.\n\nMichelina died at her home in Pesaro on 19 June 1356 of natural causes.\n\nShe was beatified on 13 April 1737 by Pope Clement XII.\n\n"}
{"id": "5940583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5940583", "title": "Minoan snake goddess figurines", "text": "Minoan snake goddess figurines\n\n\"Snake goddess\" is a type of figurine depicting a woman holding a snake in each hand, as were found in Minoan archaeological sites in Crete. The first two of such figurines (both incomplete) were found by the British archaeologist Arthur Evans and date to the neo-palatial period of Minoan civilization, c. 1700–1450 BCE. It was Evans who called the larger of his pair of figurines a \"Snake Goddess\", the smaller a \"Snake Priestess\"; since then, it has been debated whether Evans was right, or whether both figurines depict priestesses, or both depict the same deity or distinct deities.\n\nThe figurines were found only in house sanctuaries, where the figurine appears as \"the goddess of the household\", and they are probably (according to Burkert) related to the Paleolithic traditions regarding women and domesticity. The figurines have also been interpreted as showing a mistress of animals-type goddess and as a precursor to Athena Parthenos, who is also associated with snakes.\n\nThe first two snake goddess figurines to be discovered were found by Arthur Evans in 1903, in the temple repositories of Knossos. The figurines are made of faience, a technique for glazing earthenware and other ceramic vessels by using a quartz paste. After firing, this produces bright colors and a lustrous sheen. This material symbolized the renewal of life in old Egypt, therefore it was used in the funeral cult and in the sanctuaries.\n\nThese two figurines are today exhibited at the Herakleion Archeological Museum in Crete. It is possible that they illustrate the fashion of dress of Minoan women: a tight bodice which left the breasts bare, a long flounced skirt, and an apron made of material with embroidered or woven decoration. The larger of these figures has snakes crawling over her arms up to her tiara. The smaller figure holds two snakes in her raised hands, which seems to be the imitation of a panther. These were usually symbols of an earth goddess.\n\nIn particular, one of the \"snake goddesses\" was found in a few scattered pieces, and was later filled with a solution of paraffin to preserve it from further damage. The goddess is depicted just as in other statues (crown on head, hands grasping snakes etc.). The expression on her face is described as lifelike, and is also wearing the typical Minoan dress. Another figure found in Berlin, made of bronze, looks more like a snake charmer with the snakes on top of her head. Many Minoan statues and statuettes seem to express a pride. \nClay sculptures with raised hands and curling snakes were found in the \"House of the double axes\" in Knossos, in Asine, in Gournia, and in Myrtos. Objects with snakes curling up the sides of clay tubes were also found in Cyprus and Palestine.\nThe snake goddess's Minoan name may be related with \"A-sa-sa-ra\", a possible interpretation of inscriptions found in Linear A texts. Although Linear A is not yet deciphered, Palmer relates tentatively the inscription \"a-sa-sa-ra-me\" which seems to have accompanied goddesses, with the Hittite \"išhaššara\", which means \"mistress\". \n\nThe serpent is often symbolically associated with the renewal of life because it sheds its skin periodically. A similar belief existed in the ancient Mesopotamians and Semites, and appears also in Hindu mythology. The Pelasgian myth of creation refers to snakes as the reborn dead. However, Martin P. Nilsson noticed that in the Minoan religion the snake was the protector of the house, as it later appears also in Greek religion. Among the Greek Dionysiac cult it signified wisdom and was the symbol of fertility.\n\nBarry Powell suggested that the \"snake goddess\" reduced in legend into a folklore heroine was Ariadne (whose name might mean \"utterly pure\" or \"the very holy one\"), who is often depicted surrounded by Maenads and satyrs. Some scholars relate the snake goddess with the Phoenician Astarte (\"virgin daughter\"). She was the goddess of fertility and sexuality and her worship was connected with an orgiastic cult. Her temples were decorated with serpentine motifs. In a related Greek myth Europa, who is sometimes identified with Astarte in ancient sources, was a Phoenician princess whom Zeus abducted and carried to Crete. Evans tentatively linked the snake goddess with the Egyptian snake goddess Wadjet but did not pursue this connection. Statuettes similar to the \"snake goddess\" type identified as \"priest of Wadjet\" and \"magician\" were found in Egypt.\n\nBoth goddesses have a knot with a projecting looped cord between their breasts. Evans noticed that these are analogous to the \"sacral knot\", his name for a knot with a loop of fabric above and sometimes fringed ends hanging down below. Numerous such symbols in ivory, faience, painted in frescoes or engraved in seals sometimes combined with the symbol of the double-edged axe or labrys which was the most important Minoan religious symbol. Such symbols were found in Minoan and Mycenaean sites. It is believed that the \"sacral knot\" was the symbol of holiness on human figures or cult-objects. Its combination with the double-axe can be compared with the Egyptian ankh (eternal life), or with the tyet (welfare/life) a symbol of Isis (the knot of Isis).\n\nWadjet had a famous oracle in the city Per-Wadjet (Greek name Buto). According to Herodotus this may have been the source of the oracular tradition which spread to Greece from Egypt. The serpents were considered the protectors of the temples and the chthonic masters of the ancient earth goddess. In Greece the old oracles were devoted to the mother goddess.\n\nOther goddesses probably associated with the \"snake goddess\" are:\n\nThe feminist artwork \"The Dinner Party\" by Judy Chicago features a place setting for a \"Snake Goddess\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47888740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47888740", "title": "NBOMe-mescaline", "text": "NBOMe-mescaline\n\nNBOMe-mescaline or mescaline-NBOMe is a synthetic substituted phenethylamine. It is a partial agonist of serotonin receptors with a 5-HT pKi originally reported as 7.3 (i.e. Ki of approximately 50nM), though more modern techniques assayed it as 140nM at 5-HT and 640nM at 5-HT, making it one of the least potent compounds among the n-benzyl phenethylamines. \n\nNBOMe-mescaline and NBOMe-escaline were first reported in 1999 resulting from research performed at Free University of Berlin concerning their activity as partial agonists at rat vascular 5-HT2A receptors. NBOMe-mescaline was first reported in September 2008 to have been self administered by humans as a psychedelic drug at some unspecified point prior. It first became available as a commodity in the research chemical market in May 2010 several months after a few 25x-NBOMes became available.\n\nSolubility of the hydrochloride salt: ~5 mg/ml in Phosphate Buffered Saline (PBS) @ pH 7.2; ~10 mg/ml in ethanol & DMF; ~20 mg/ml in DMSO.\n\nNBOMe-mescaline can be synthesized from mescaline and 2-methoxybenzaldehyde, via reductive alkylation. That can be done stepwise by first making the imine and then reducing the formed imine with sodium borohydride, or by direct reaction with sodium triacetoxyborohydride. An alternative production method which removes the need to obtain the illegal compound mescaline as an isolated precursor can be achieved via a one-pot reaction utilizing 3,4,5-trimethoxyphenylacetonitrile with Lithium Aluminium Hydride as a reducing agent.\n\nThere have been very few reports of human use of NBOMe-mescaline. Psychedelic visual, auditory and mental effects start around 50 mg intranasally.\n\nNBOMe-mescaline is not listed in the schedules set out by the United Nations' Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs from 1961 nor their Convention on Psychotropic Substances from 1971, so the signatory countries to these international drug control treaties are not required by said treaties to control NBOMe-mescaline.\n\nNBOMe-mescaline is not listed in the list of scheduled controlled substances in the USA. It is therefore not scheduled at the federal level in the United States, but it is possible that NBOMe-mescaline could legally be considered an analog of mescaline, and therefore sales or possession could potentially be prosecuted under the Federal Analogue Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11828740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11828740", "title": "Nathuram Premi", "text": "Nathuram Premi\n\nNathuram Premi was a writer, publisher, poet, editor, linguist and an intellectual giant in the field of Jainism as well as Hindi literature. A budding poet, he wrote under the nom de plume of \"Premi\". Although belonging to the Digambara sect of Jainism, he adopted a non-sectarian attitude and published and translated many Digambara as well as Śvetāmbara works. Working as a clerk in a firm in Mumbai he rose to establish his own publishing house and bookstore Hindi Granth Ratnākar Kāryālay which published works of many of the biggest names in Indian literature, including Munshi Premchand, Hajariprasad Dvivedi, Jainendrakumar, Yashpal, Swami Satyabhakta, Sharatchandra Chatterjee and Rabindranath Tagore. The bookshop and publishing house now called Hindi Granth Karyalay is now being managed by his grandson and great-grandson 100 years after its establishment.\n\nBorn on 26 November 1881 in Deori, in the district of Sagar in Bundelkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Nāthūrām Premī was the eldest child of Tundelal Modi, a travelling merchant of modest means, belonging to the Paravāra community of Digambara Jains hailing from Bundelkhand. He studied in grammar school and was the monitor of his class. He cleared his pre-high school exams in 1898 and became a schoolteacher nearby at Rehli. In the late 1890s, he married Rama Devi, who was from the nearby village of Sarkheda, in the district of Sagar.\n\nNāthūrām Premī excelled in the field of literature as a poet, editor, writer and publisher earning respect and affection of his contemporaries like Munshi Premchand, Mahaviraprasad Dwivedi, Rahul Sankrityayan, Pandit Sukhlalji, Muni Jinavijayaji, Ganeshprasadji Varni, Pandit Becharadasji Doshi, Pandit Agarchand Nahata and Dr Dalsukh Malvania. Premiji and Munshi Premchand were close friends, and he published the first edition of Munshi Premchand's classic novel, \"Godān\". He also published Premchand's short story collections entitled Nava Nidhi and Sapta Saroj.\n\nUnder the inspiration of his guru Syed Amir Ali Mir, Nathuram became a budding poet, writing in Urdu and Braj under the nom de plume of \"Premi\". Since then he was affectionately called Premiji by his friends and contemporaries. His poems were published in the literary magazines of the time, Rasika Mitra, Rasika Vātikā and Kāvya Sudhākara.\n\nOn 24 September 1912 Premiji founded the publishing house \"Hindi Granth Ratnākar Kāryālay\" (now known as \"Hindi Granth Karyalay\") at C.P. Tank, Mumbai. It was to become the foremost Hindi publishing house in India and is also the oldest bookstore of Mumbai. The first publication was a Hindi translation of John Stuart Mill's On Liberty, titled \"Svādhīnatā\" translated by Mahavira Prasad Dvivedi. He published almost the entire oeuvre of Sharat Chandra Chatterji, the Bengali writer, and some works of Rabindranath Tagore, such as \"Ānkh kī Kirkirī\", and \"Naukā Dūbī\". Premiji also published Hindi translations of the Gujarati writer KM Munshi, such as \"Gujarāt ke Nāth\" and \"Pātan kā Prabhutva\". Other famous works published include Munshi Premchand's classic novel, \"Godān\" and short story collections titled \"Nava Nidhi\" and \"Sapta Saroj\". He also published works of then new writers such as Hajariprasad Dvivedi, Jainendrakumar, Yashpal, Acharya Chatursen, and Pandit Sudarshan. He also published the Bengali plays of Dvijendra Lal Rai for the first time in Hindi.\n\nIn memory of Seth Manikchandra, Premiji established the \"Manikacandra Jain Granthamālā\" wherein he published Jain scriptures, for the first time systematically edited by philologists. The \"Manikacandra Jain Granthamālā\" published over 48 Digambara Jain texts, mostly written in Prakrit, Apabhramśa or Sanskrit. He ran the Manikacandra Jain Granthamālā on an honorary basis between 1915 and the 1950s selling all the books at cost price. When his health began to fail, it was decided to hand over the series to \"Bhāratīya Jñānapītha\" in Varanasi.\n\nPremiji was non-sectarian in his attitude and shared a good rapport with many Svetambara scholars. Besides many Digambara scriptures, he published and translated many Śvetāmbara scriptures. He once remarked to Sukhlalji that he wished that the learned Digambara scholars would give up their sectarian views. During those times there used to be heated debate whether Acarya Umāsvāti (Umāsvāmī) belonged to the Śvetāmbara or the Digambara tradition. Premiji, although a Digambara himself, went against views of Digambara community and opined that he was neither, but belonged to the Yāpanīya tradition. Pt. Sukhlal Sanghvi, a Śvetāmbara Jain scholar observed Premiji's non-sectarian attitude:\n\nUnder his tutelage, Hindi Granth Ratnākar Kāryālay became India's No. 1 publishers of Hindi literature. In recognition of his contributions to Indian literature, the acclaimed Hindi novelist Vishnu Prabhakar called Premiji the \"Bhīsma Pitāmaha\" of Hindi publishing.\n\nPremiji had suffered from asthma for a long time and died owing to old age on 30 January 1960. He left behind his daughter-in-law and two grandsons, Yashodhar Modi and Vidyadhar Modi. They are continuing his legacy along with their children.\n\nIn Premiji's memory, his grandson Yashodhar Modi has started the Pandit Nathuram Premi Research Series. This series has published select volumes focusing on subjects as varied as Jainism, philosophy and yoga and published original texts by ancient and medieval Jain ascetics such as \"Kundakunda, Samantabhadra, Pūjyapāda, Joindu, Prabhācandra, Vādirāja, Bhāvadeva \"and many others, usually accompanied by translation in either Hindi or English.\n\nAlso, modern scholars such as Premiji himself, Prof. Ludwig Alsdorf, Prof. Maurice Bloomfield, Prof. Willem Bollée and Dr. Jaykumar Jalaj have been and are being published in the Pandit Nathuram Premi Research Series.\n\nJain Studies : Their Present State and Future Tasks\nBy Prof Dr Ludwig Alsdorf\nEnglish tr. by Bal Patil P\nPublished in 2006\nThe Story of Paesi\nPrakrit text in Roman and Devanagari\nEnglish tr. by Prof Dr Willem Bollée\nPublished in 2005\nRatnakaranda Shravakacara\nSanskrit text by Acarya Samantabhadra\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\nPublished in 2006, 2006\nVyavahara Bhashya Pithika\nPrakrit text in Roman\nEnglish tr. by Prof Dr Willem Bollée\nPublished in 2006, 2011\nSamadhitantra\nSanskrit text by Acarya Pujyapada\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\nPublished in 2006, 2006, 2008\nAtthapahuda\nPrakrit text by Acarya Kundakunda\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\nPublished in 2006, 2008\nTattvarthasutra\nSanskrit text by Acarya Prabhacandra\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\nPublished in 2008\nYogamrit : Yog Sahaj Jivan Vigyan\nBy Mahavir Sainik\nPublished in 2006\nParamatmaprakasha\nApabhramsa text by Acarya Joindu\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\nPublished in 2007\nYogasara\nApabhramsa text by Acarya Joindu\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\nPublished in 2007, 2009\nDhyanastava\nSanskrit text by Acarya Bhaskaranandi\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\nPublished in 2007\nDhyanashataka\nPrakrit text by Jinabhadragani Kshamashramana\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\nPublished in 2007, 2009\nBarasa Anuvekkha\nPrakrit text by Acarya Kundakunda\nSanskrit tr. & Hindi gloss by Pt. Nathuram Premi\nPublished in 2010\nIshtopadesha\nSanskrit text by Acarya Pujyapada\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\nPublished in 2007, 2009\nLife and Stories of the Jain Saviour Parshvanatha\nAn English tr. of Acarya Bhavadeva's Parsvacaritram\nby Prof Dr Maurice Bloomfield\nPublished in 2008\nTattvasara\nPrakrit text by Acarya Devasena\nSanskrit gloss by Muni Ratnabhanuvijay\nEnglish tr. by Manish Modi\nThe Apabhramsha of Svayambhudeva's Paumacariu\nBy Dr Eva de Clercq\nPublished in 2010\nJainism and the Definition of Religion\nBy Dr Piotr Balcerowicz\nPublished in 2009\nDravyasamgraha\nPrakrit text by Acarya Nemicandra\nEnglish tr. by Prof Dr Nalini Balbir\nPublished in 2010\nTattvarthasutra\nSanskrit text by Acarya Prabhacandra\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj, English tr. by Anish Shah\nRayanasara\nPrakrit text by Acarya Kundakunda\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\n\nJainism : An Eternal Pilgrimage\nBy Bal Patil\nPublished in 2008, 2011\nDravyasamgraha\nPrakrit text by Acarya Nemicandra\nHindi tr. by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\nPublished in 2009\nParshvanathacaritram\nSanskrit text by Acarya Vadiraja\nParshvacaritram : The Life of Parshva\nSanskrit text by Acarya Gunabhadra\nEnglish tr. by Prof Dr Willem Bollée\nPublished in 2008\nJain Sahitya aur Itihas\nBy Pt. Nathuram Premi\nPublished in 1942, 1956, 2012\nTales of Atonement\nStories from Malayagiri's Commentary on the Vyavahara Bhashya\nEnglish tr. by Prof Dr Willem Bollée\nPublished in 2008\nYogashastra : A Handbook on the Three Jewels of Jainism\nSanskrit text by Acarya Hemacandra\nEnglish tr. by Prof Dr Olle Qvarnström\nSamayasara\nPrakrit text by Acarya Kundakunda\nHindi translation by Dr Jaykumar Jalaj\n2012\nDhyanabattisi\nBraj text by Banarasidasa\nEnglish tr. by Jerome Petit\nPublished in 2010\nTattvarthasutra\nSanskrit text by Acarya Umasvati\nEnglish tr. by Prof Dr Duli Chandra Jain\nSvarupa Sambodhana\nRight Instruction on the Nature of the Soul\nSanskrit text by Acarya Akalanka\nEnglish tr., notes and introduction by Nagin J. Shah\nPublished in 2011\nShastrasarasamuccaya\nSanskrit text by Acarya Maghanandi\nEnglish tr. by Shreyans Sukhani\nThree Prakrit Grammars\nBy Saartje Verbeke\nPublished in 2010\nIshtopadesha\nSanskrit text by Acarya Pujyapada\nGujarati tr. by Pravina Mehta, English tr. by Manish Modi\nPublished in 2010\nBhaktamara Stotra\nSanskrit text by Acarya Manatunga\nHindi poetic tr. and gloss by Pt Nathuram Premi, English tr. by Manish Modi\nMrityu Mahotsava\nSanskrit text by an Unknown Writer\nHindi tr. by Shreyans Sukhani, Gujarati tr. by Dr Shilpa Vasani, English tr. by Manish Modi\nPublished in 2010\nAradhanasara\nPrakrit text by Acarya Devasena\nEnglish tr. by Prof Dr Nalini Balbir\nPublished in 2010\nTattvarthasutra : That Which Is\nSanskrit text by Acarya Umasvati\nEnglish tr. by Nathmal Tantia\nRatnakarandaka Shravakacara\nSanskrit text by Acarya Samantabhadra\nEnglish tr. by Prof Dr Willem Bollée\n2012\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23817468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23817468", "title": "Oracle of the Lamb", "text": "Oracle of the Lamb\n\nThe Oracle of the Lamb is an ancient Egyptian prophetic text written on a papyrus in Demotic Egyptian and dated to the thirty-third year of the reign of the Roman Emperor Augustus (r. 27 BC – 14 AD). In it, a lamb speaks and provides prophecies to a man named Pasenhor. The lamb describes a world turned upside-down and reduced to chaos: temples are in disarray, the ruler has now become the ruled, and the Medes (i.e. referring to the Persian domination of Egypt) have come to destroy Egypt. It also mentions that the Greeks (i.e. referring to the Ptolemaic domination of Egypt) will take the White Crown (representing pharaonic Upper Egypt). The story is comparable in style, tone, and subject matter to prophetic texts of the Middle Kingdom of Egypt, such as the \"Prophecy of Neferti\".\n\n\nGozzoli, Roberto B. (2006). The Writings of History in Ancient Egypt during the First Millennium BC (ca. 1070–180 BC): Trends and Perspectives. London: Golden House Publications, printed and bound by T.J. International. .\n"}
{"id": "41809753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41809753", "title": "Pharnabazus I", "text": "Pharnabazus I\n\nPharnabazus (died before 430 BCE), was a member of the Pharnacid dynasty that governed the province of Hellespontine Phrygia as satraps for the Achaemenid Empire.\n\nHe is a very obscure figure, almost always mentioned alongside his father Artabazus. He may have succeeded his father as satrap between 455 and 430 BCE, but it is also possible that Artabazus was directly succeeded by his grandson (Pharnabazus' son), Pharnaces II.\n"}
{"id": "19988587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19988587", "title": "Rebecca Watson", "text": "Rebecca Watson\n\nRebecca Kay Watson (born October 18, 1980) is an American blogger and podcast host. She is the founder of the Skepchick blog and former co-host of \"The Skeptics' Guide to the Universe\" podcast. She also previously co-hosted the \"Little Atoms\" podcast.\n\nWatson founded Skepchick in 2005, describing it as \"an organization dedicated to promoting skepticism and critical thinking among women around the world\". Originally the site consisted of a forum and a monthly online magazine, \"Skepchick Magazine\", which was launched January 15, 2006.\n\nIn 2006, Watson released The Skepchick Calendar, a pin-up calendar featuring pictures of skeptical women for every month. Proceeds provided the attendance fee for several female applicants to attend the James Randi Educational Foundation's The Amaz!ng Meeting.\n\nOn February 12, 2006, Watson created a blog titled \"Memoirs of a Skepchick\", as an addition to the magazine. Eventually the blog, now simply titled \"Skepchick\", became the main site, as Skepchick Magazine was discontinued in July 2006. Fourteen other bloggers beside Watson now contribute regularly, including one man.\n\nIn 2010, Skepchick partnered with the Women Thinking Free Foundation to host a vaccination drive with the help of the \"Hug Me!\" campaign at the Dragon*Con convention in Atlanta, Georgia. Public health staff allowed members of the public to receive a TDAP vaccination free of charge, as well as educational literature promoting immunization. In 2011, Skepchick, the James Randi Educational Foundation (JREF), and the Women Thinking Free Foundation partnered to offer a similar vaccination clinic at The Amaz!ng Meeting 9 in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nWatson's first appearance on The Skeptics' Guide to the Universe podcast was on episode 33 (March 9, 2006), where she was interviewed about her work on Skepchick. She returned on episode 36 (March 29, 2006) as a regular member of the panel. On December 27, 2014, she announced that she has recorded her final show prior to leaving the organization.\n\nIn May 2007, Watson entered The Public Radio Talent Quest, a contest aimed to find new public radio hosts. The contest claims to have received more than 1,400 entries. Watson's entries won the popular vote in every round, and she was declared one of three winners who each would receive $10,000 to produce a public radio pilot.\n\nWatson's pilot, \"Curiosity, Aroused\", was an hour-long program focused on science and skepticism. It featured interviews with Richard Saunders of Australian Skeptics and Mystery Investigators, and Richard Wiseman, author of Quirkology and Professor of the Public Understanding of Psychology at the University of Hertfordshire. She also investigated claims of poisonous amounts of lead in lipstick, went on a ghost tour in Boston and visited a Psychic Fair.\n\nHer show was the only one among the three winners not to receive funding by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for being turned into a one-year show.\n\nWatson grew up in New Jersey and earned a Bachelor of Science degree in communications from Boston University in 2002. While attending Boston University, Watson worked as a magician. Watson says she \"had relatively little serious interest in science\" during her high school and college years but became more interested in science after being a magician and meeting with people like James Randi.\nOn July 11, 2009, she and Sid Rodrigues were married in a surprise ceremony during The Amaz!ng Meeting 7. On April 8, 2011, she announced that she and Rodrigues were separated and seeking a divorce.\n\nAt the June 2011 World Atheist Convention, on a panel that also included Richard Dawkins, Watson spoke about her experiences with sexism within the atheist movement. Among the topics in a vlog posted following her return from the trip, she described how after the talk around 4 am after leaving the hotel bar, a man from the group followed her into an elevator and said \"Don't take this the wrong way, but I find you very interesting, and I would like to talk more. Would you like to come to my hotel room for coffee?\" Watson cited various contextual reasons why this felt inappropriate, and advised, \"guys, don't do that.\" The ensuing discussion and criticism across several websites, including Reddit and the \"Pharyngula\" blog, became highly polarized and heated to the point of name-calling and some personal threats, including rape and death threats.\n\nThe controversy increased when Richard Dawkins joined the blog discussion later in 2011, describing her response as an overreaction since a man had merely conversed with her, \"politely\". Dawkins contrasted the \"elevator incident\" with the plight of women in Islamic countries, in a post titled \"Dear Muslima\":\nDawkins received criticism for his remarks from David Allen Green for dismissing lesser wrongs because bigger wrongs exist, and by Remy Stern for spending so much time \"arguing about a proposition in an elevator.\"\n\nDawkins further explained himself:\nIn response to Dawkins' comments, Watson stated that she would no longer buy or endorse his books and lectures, which was viewed as a boycott, writing:\n\nThe result of this exchange led to an extended internet flame war that several reports dubbed \"elevatorgate\". In the wake of this and an incident at a Center for Inquiry-sponsored event, where female atheists reported gender bias and inappropriate behavior, organizations including the Richard Dawkins Foundation have reviewed their policies regarding sexual harassment and non-discrimination. In 2014, Richard Dawkins stated, \"There should be no rivalry in victimhood, and I'm sorry I once said something similar to American women complaining of harassment, inviting them to contemplate the suffering of Muslim women by comparison\", in response to which Watson tweeted, \"Richard Dawkins just did the blog-equivalent of coughing into his hand while mumbling 'sorry' to me. Eh, I'll take it.\"\n\nAn outer main-belt asteroid discovered on March 22, 2001, by David H. Healy was named 153289 Rebeccawatson in her honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "26258971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26258971", "title": "Santuario della Madonna del Divino Amore", "text": "Santuario della Madonna del Divino Amore\n\nSantuario della Madonna del Divino Amore or the shrine of Our Lady of Divine Love is a Roman Catholic shrine dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary that consists of two churches: an old church built in 1745 and a new church added to the sanctuary in 1999. The church was included by Pope John Paul II in the pilgrimage of Seven Pilgrim Churches of Rome during the Holy Year 2000.\n\nIn 1295 the property belonged to the Savelli-Orsini family, who built a castle surrounded by a boundary wall and protexted by six or eight towers. The property changed hands several times and by the early eighteenth century the estate had fallen into ruin. One of the towers of a gatehouse, known as the \"Castel di Leva\", was decorated with a medieval fresco, a votive image of the Madonna and Child. The painting, whose artist is unknown, portrayed the Virgin Mary sitting on a Throne and holding the child Jesus in her arms. A dove descends upon her as a symbol of the Holy Spirit. Local shepherds who grazed their flocks nearby during the winter would often meet here to pray the Rosary. In 1740, a pilgrim was attacked by angry dogs near the gatehouse and, according to the tradition, was saved through the intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Seeing the image, the man invoked the Mother of God for help. Immediately the dogs calmed down and ran off into the countryside. Word spread of this occurrence and the following September the painting was moved to a nearby estate called \"La Falconiana\", were stood a small church dedicated to the Virgin under the title Santa Maria ad Magos (St Mary of the Magi).\n\nOn Easter Monday, April 19, 1745, the painting was returned to a new church, built near the site of the old tower. On 31 May 1750, Cardinal Carlo Rezzonico (later Pope Clement XIII) consecrated the altar in the church to Our Lady of Divine Love. \n\nThe church became a site of pilgrimage. With the increase of devotion from the people in the countryside, the church was entrusted to a hermit guardian, the first of which was Pasquale Francesco. After the fall of the Papal State in 1870 and the confiscation of church property, the property again falls into a period of neglect and decay, although the devotion of the faithful to Our Lady of Divine Love continues. \"Sancte Marie de Divino Amore\" (in English: \"Saint Mary of Love Divine\") is a devotional title in the Catholic Church for Mary, the mother of Jesus. The image received canonical coronation on 13 May 1883 and can now be used by the faithful when addressing Mary for intercessions under this title. In December 1932, a parish was established and Don Umberto Terenzi appointed rector and the first parish priest. In March 1942 he founded the Congregation of the Daughters of Our Lady of Divine Love.\n\nDuring World War II, the fresco was moved to the church of St. Ignatius. Pope Pius XII and many Romans visited the shrine to pray for the Holy Mother's intercession that the city be spared. On June 11, 1944 Pius XII went to pray before the Image of the Virgin, surrounded by an immense crowd, and bestows the title of \"Salvatrice dell'Urbe\". In 1962, the Oblate Priests were founded, who since then serve the shrine. The pilgrimages increase, especially from Whit Monday until autumn. The shrine presently on the site is new, and was inaugurated by Pope John Paul II on July 4, 1999. Pope John Paul II included the shrine in the Seven Pilgrim Churches of Rome and the pilgrim itinerary for the Holy Year 2000, replacing San Sebastiano fuori le Mura.\n\nBehind the chapel is a staircase that leads down to the gate tower where the miracle occurred in 1740.\n\nPope Francis visited the shrine on 1 May 2018 to say the rosary, marking the start of the month dedicated to Mary. \n\nThe miraculous painting is enshrined above the altar. The mosaics in the apse are modern, and shows Christ in the centre, and the miracle on the left.\n\nIn the crypt is the tomb of the married couple Bl. Luigi (Aloysius) Beltrame Quattrocchi and Bl. Maria Corsini Beltrame Quattrocchi. He died in 1951, and she in 1965. After their deaths, a beatification process was started. They were beatified on 21 October 2001 by Pope John Paul II, and this was the first time that a married couple had been beatified together. Their relics were moved here on 28 October 2001. The feast of Bl. Luigi and Maria Corsini Beltrame Quattrocchi is celebrated on 25 November, their wedding day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55529193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55529193", "title": "Sarah Elizabeth Titcomb", "text": "Sarah Elizabeth Titcomb\n\nSarah Elizabeth Titcomb (1841 – April 15, 1895) was an American genealogist and writer.\n\nTitcomb was born in Lowell, Massachusetts. She took interest in genealogy and was the author of \"Early New England People\" (1882).\n\nTitcomb was an advocate of what was known in the 19th century as the \"mind cure\". She wrote the book \"Mind-Cure on a Material Basis\" (1885). Titcomb believed that disease could be caused and cured by imagination and the mind. According to Titcomb the success of the cure was based on the concentration of thought and not to any underlying theology. Because of her theological differences she received criticism from Mary Baker Eddy and advocates of Christian Science.\n\nShe also wrote \"Aryan Sun Myths: The Origin of Religions\" (1889), a book on comparative religion and solar myths. Titcomb was a proponent of the Christ Myth theory, according to a review of her book she held the view that Jesus Christ was a personification of a solar deity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2104584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2104584", "title": "Secular Coalition for America", "text": "Secular Coalition for America\n\nThe Secular Coalition for America is an advocacy group located in Washington D.C.. It describes itself as \"representing the interests of atheists, humanists, freethinkers, agnostics, and other nontheistic Americans.\"\n\nThe Secular Coalition has chapters in all 50 states and Puerto Rico, composed of lobbyists trained by the organization. The Coalition holds an annual lobby day and policy conference, publishes yearly Congressional report cards and voter guides, and in 2013 issued its first Model Secular Policy Guide for Legislatures.\n\nFormer White House staffer Edwina Rogers served as Executive Director from May 2012 to May 2014. Sean Faircloth, a five-term Maine state legislator, served as Executive Director between 2009 and 2011. Between 2005 and 2009, it was directed by former Nevada state senator Lori Lipman Brown, who became its first full-time lobbyist in September 2005.\n\nThe Secular Coalition works to increase visibility and respect for irreligious, nontheistic viewpoints in the United States and to protect and strengthen the secular character of the U.S. government. The Coalition advocates complete separation of church and state within American politics which they claim is clearly established in the U.S. Constitution under the First Amendment. Furthermore, the Coalition holds that freedom of conscience, which includes religious freedom, was of such importance that it was made the first of all freedoms protected in the Bill of Rights, and that reason and science should be guiding tenets for public policy.\n\nThe mission of the Secular Coalition for America is to increase the visibility, amplify the diversity of, and respect for, the growing voice of the nontheistic community in the United States, and to protect and strengthen the secular character of government as the best guarantee of freedom for all.\n\nThe Secular Coalition for America was founded in 2002 by four U.S. secular organizations: Atheist Alliance International, the Institute for Humanist Studies, the Secular Student Alliance, and the Secular Web. In 2005 the American Humanist Association became the Coalition's fifth member organization. The Society for Humanistic Judaism and the Freedom From Religion Foundation joined the Coalition in January 2006, the Military Association of Atheists and Freethinkers in February 2007, and the American Ethical Union in April 2008. In 2009, Camp Quest joined in January and American Atheists became a member in June. The Council for Secular Humanism joined in January 2010.\n\nCoalition president Herb Silverman was a leading force behind the founding of the organization, which was designed as a framework for cooperation among secular groups in the United States. Silverman believed that nontheistic Americans could gradually gain the respect of politicians and society if they collaborated on issues and presented a unified force for activism.\n\nThe Coalition's member organizations, as of 2018, are:\n\nThe Secular Coalition for America Board of Directors is democratically structured. Each sponsoring member organization appoints one individual to serve as its representative director, who casts one vote on any matter considered by the Board. Officers may be associated with member organizations or may come from the wider freethought community. Current officers are Bob Kresek, president; Bill Norsworthy, vice president; Ron Lindsay, vice president; Alexander Satorie-Robinson, treasurer; Bonnie Cousens, secretary; Herb Silverman, president-emeritus; Larry T. Decker; John Levin; Madison Paige; Michael Trollan; Doug White.\n\nAdvisors to the Secular Coalition for America are Woody Kaplan (Chair), Rob Boston, Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett, Rebecca Goldstein, Sam Harris, Jeff Hawkins, Wendy Kaminer, Michael Newdow, Dan Okrent, Steven Pinker, Salman Rushdie, Pete Stark, Todd Stiefel, and Julia Sweeney.\n\nThe Secular Coalition for America addresses issues arising out of what they see as the inappropriate presence of religion into public policy, such as government funding of religious ministries (the \"faith-based initiative\" or \"charitable choice\"); tuition vouchers for religious schools; federally funded abstinence-only sex education; limits to embryonic stem cell research; constitutional marriage protection amendments; access to birth control and emergency contraception; the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act; and the Pledge Protection Act as well as other court-stripping measures.\n\nThe Coalition is particularly active in challenging what it perceives as discrimination against nontheists by government chartered organizations like the Boy Scouts of America.\n\nSimilarly, it works to keep military chaplains from actively sharing their beliefs with service members.\nThe Coalition also welcomes and works in cooperation with religious groups regardless of affiliation when the religious group(s) share their beliefs of freedom of conscience and separation of church and state. The Secular Coalition for America espouses religious tolerance to people of all religions and those without.\n\nIn 2007 the Secular Coalition for America pledged a $1,000 reward to the person identifying the highest level elected official to openly acknowledge no supernatural beliefs. The \"Find an Atheist, Humanist, Freethinker Elected Official Contest\" concluded with the announcement that Rep. Pete Stark (D-Calif.), a member of the United States Congress since 1973, held the highest office of four public servants to acknowledge a secular world view to the Coalition after being nominated by a contestant. Stark was the first Congressional member to publicly self-identify with the freethought community.\n\nOn February 26, 2010, the Secular Coalition for America, along with a unified delegation of members of the secular movement from across the country, met with representatives of the Obama administration for an official policy briefing—the first of its kind specifically for American non-theists. The group raised three particular areas of concern to secular Americans: military proselytizing and religious coercion, fixing the Faith-Based Initiatives program, and ending the exemptions granted to religious groups in laws governing child medical abuse and neglect.\n\nThe Secular Coalition for America publishes an online Congressional scorecard rating U.S. Representatives and Senators on their roll call votes and legislative sponsorship.\n"}
{"id": "9943003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9943003", "title": "Secularism in Iran", "text": "Secularism in Iran\n\nSecularism in Iran was established as state policy shortly after Rezā Shāh was crowned Shah in 1924. He made any public display or expression of religious faith, including the wearing of the headscarf (\"hijab\") and \"chador\" by women and wearing of facial hair by men (with the exception of the mustache) illegal. Public religious festivals (such as Muharram and Ashura) and celebrations were banned, Islamic clergy were forbidden to preach in public, and mosque activities were heavily restricted and regulated.\n\nAlthough criticised by the religious traditionalists and viewed as authoritarian by foreign observers, Reza Shah intended to secularise Iran and eliminate the influence of the Shi'a clergy upon the government and the society. During his reign, the first instances of Islamic extremism and terrorism appeared in Iran as a backlash against his secularist policies. For example, secularist politicians and writers such as Ahmad Kasravi were assassinated by Muslim fighters, the most notorious of which remains Navvab Safavi, who today is considered a hero by the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran.\n\nAfter Reza Shah was forcibly deposed and sent into exile by British and Soviet forces with the Anglo-Soviet invasion of Iran, the era of secularism in Iran ended. From 1941 until 1953, democracy was properly restored to Iran, but the Shi'a clergy also were able to return to their previous level of power and influence because of their primary base of support in rural parts of central Iran.\n\nAfter 1953 the Iranian government, while becoming less and less democratic, also increasingly took steps to restore Reza Shah's authoritarian policies and eliminate the influence of the Shi'a clergy and organised religion from the government and public life. In the late 1960s, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi had forced the Shi'a clerical novitiates to attend public state-run universities in order to gain religious certification and license to preach, similar to Catholic and Christian schools of theology. Mohammad Reza Shah also began taking steps in the 1970s to exclude Shi'a clergy from participating in the Parliament and to impose restrictions on public displays of religion and religious observance.\n\nBoth Reza Shah and Mohammad Reza Shah took much inspiration from the post-revolutionary French and Classical American political schools of thought which advocate separation of religion and state, and both blamed the British for the rise of Islamism and radical Islam in Iran and the Middle East. For this reason Pahlavi Iran vigorously pursued close relations with France and the United States. In 1979, after the deposition of the government of Prime Minister Shapour Bakhtiar in February of that year, an interim government was established under Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan which sought to establish a nationalist Islamic democratic government with pro-free market economic policy, in opposition to the wishes of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and his pro-Islamic Republic faction. Bazargan's government resigned \"en masse\" in November 1979 immediately after the US Embassy takeover by radicalist students.\n\nThe end of Bazargan's government officially marked the end of state-directed secularism in Iran. In February 1980 the Islamic Republican Party established the current theocratic government of Iran, with Ayatollah Khomeini as Supreme Leader of Iran.\n\nSecular opposition to the Islamist government of the Islamic Republic of Iran had been active in the country up until 1984, afterwards they were branded heretics and apostates by the clerical hierarchy, and eventually jailed, executed or exiled.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "313658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313658", "title": "Seven Lucky Gods", "text": "Seven Lucky Gods\n\nIn Japanese mythology, the Seven Lucky Gods or Seven Gods of Fortune (七福神, shichifukujin in Japanese) are believed to grant good luck and often have their place in netsuke engravings or in other representations. Amongst the seven, not all the gods are mythical characters, as there is one who is a historical figure.\n\nThey all began as remote and impersonal gods, but gradually became much closer canonical figures for certain professions and Japanese arts. During the course of its history, the mutual influence between gods has created confusion about which of them was the patron of certain professions. The worship of this group of gods is also due to the importance of the number seven in Japan, which is supposedly a bearer of good luck.\n\nIt is known that these deities have their origins in ancient gods of fortune: from the Hinduism practiced in Nepal and India (Benzaiten, Bishamonten, Daikokuten); and from the Chinese Taoism and Buddhism (Fukurokuju, Hotei, Jurojin), except for one (Ebisu) who has a Japanese ancestry.\n\nThese gods have been recognized as such for over a thousand years by a large number of followers. In the beginning, these gods were worshiped by merchants as the first two (Ebisu and Daikokuten) were gods of business and trade.\n\nSubsequently, the other classes of Japanese society looked for other gods that could correspond with their professions: Benzaiten as the patron of the arts, Fukurokuju as the patron of the sciences, and so on.\n\nIn ancient times, these gods were worshiped separately, but this rarely happens today – only when it is required for the god to act on behalf of the applicant.\n\nThe Seven Gods of Fortune started being mentioned as a collective in the year 1420 in Fushimi, in order to imitate the processions of the \"daimyōs\", the feudal lords of pre-modern Japan.\n\nIt is said that the Buddhist priest Tenkai selected these gods after speaking with the \"shōgun\" he served, Iemitsu Tokugawa, at the order of seeking whoever possessed the perfect virtues: longevity, fortune, popularity, sincerity, kindness, dignity, and magnanimity.\n\nShortly after a famous artist of the time, Kano Yasunobu, was ordained to portray these gods for the first time ever.\n\nFrom the period of the gods Izanami and Izanagi, Ebisu is the only one whose origins are purely Japanese. He is the god of prosperity and wealth in business, and of plenitude and abundance in crops, cereals and food in general. He is the patron of fishermen and therefore is represented with fishermen's costumes such as a typical hat, a fishing rod in his right hand and a fish that can be either a carp, a hake, a codfish or a sea bass, or any large fish, in general, that symbolize abundance in meals (such as a feast or banquet). It is now common to see his figure in restaurants where fish is served in great quantities or in household kitchens.\n\nDaikokuten is also one of the Shichifukujin. He is the god of commerce and prosperity. There are other characteristics which have also been attributed to him, such as being the patron of cooks, farmers, bankers, and protector of crops. Curiously, he is also considered a demon hunter − legend says that the god Daikokuten hung a sacred talisman on the branch of a tree in his garden and, by using this as a trap, he was able to catch a demon. This god is characterized by his smile, having short legs and wearing a hat on his head. He is usually depicted with a bag full of valuable objects. Daikokuten originated as a syncretic conflation of the Buddhist death deity Mahākāla with the Shinto deity Ōkuninushi. The Japanese name \"Daikoku\" and the Hindi name \"Mahakala\" both translate to \"Great Blackness\". Per the Butsuzōzui compendium of 1690 (reprinted and expanded in 1796), Daikoku can also manifest as a female known as Daikokunyo (大黒女) (\"She of the Great Blackness\") or Daikokutennyo (大黒天女) (\"She of the Great Blackness of the Heavens\").\n\nHis origins can be traced back to Hinduism, but he has been adapted by the Japanese culture. He comes from the Hindu god Kubera and is also known by the name \"Vaisravana\" from Hindu culture.\n\nHe is the god of fortune in war and battles, also associated with authority and dignity. He is the protector of those who follow the rules and behave appropriately. As the patron of fighters, he is represented dressed in armour and a helmet, carrying a pagoda in his left hand. He also acts as protector of holy sites and important places and holds a spear in his right hand to fight against the evil spirits. He is usually depicted in illustrations with a hoop of fire.\n\nBenzaiten's origin is found in Hinduism, as she comes from the Hindu goddess Saraswati. While being the only female Fukujin in the modern grouping of seven Fukujin, she is named in various ways: Benzaiten (弁才天), Benten (弁天), Bentensama (弁天様), or Benzaitennyo (弁才天女). When she was adapted from Buddhism, she was given the attributes of financial fortune, talent, beauty and music among others. In many occasions her figure appears in the \"Torii\" (entrance of the temples). It is common to see her in the Japanese temples. She is represented as a smart, beautiful woman with all the aforementioned attributes. She carries a \"biwa\", a Japanese traditional lute-like instrument and is normally accompanied by a white snake. She is the patron of artists, writers, dancers, and geisha, among others.\n\nThe god Fukurokuju, another Shichifukujin, has his origins in China. It is believed that he used to be a hermit during the Chinese Song dynasty, distinguished for being a reincarnation of the Taoist god Hsuan-wu. He is the god of wisdom, luck, longevity, wealth and happiness. This god receives certain credits, such as being one of the Chinese philosophers who could live without eating (breatharian). Moreover, he is the only god who was said to have the ability to resurrect the dead. Fukurokuju is characterized by the size of his head, being almost as large as the size of his whole body, and is represented wearing traditional Chinese costumes. He normally carries a cane in one hand and in the other a scroll with writings about the world. He is usually accompanied by a turtle, a crow or a deer, animals that are frequently used in Japan to symbolize a long life. It is also said that he likes to play chess, and so he is also credited for being the patron of chess players. The characteristics of Fukurokuju and Jurōjin bear tremendous overlap as they both trace back to the Chinese Taoist deity Nánjílǎorén (南极老人), which is why Fukurokuju's position among the seven Fukujin is sometimes granted instead to the goddess Kichijōten, as in the Butsuzōzui compendium of 1783.\n\nConsidered the incarnation of the southern pole star (南極星 \"nankyokusei\"), Juroujin is the god of the elderly and longevity in Japanese Buddhist mythology. It is said that the legendary Juroujin is based on a real person who lived in ancient times. He was approximately 1.82 meters tall with a very long head. Besides his distinctive skull, he is represented with a long white beard, riding a deer and is often also accompanied by a 1500 year old crane and a tortoise, as symbols of his affinity with long lives. In addition, he is usually represented under a peach tree, as the fruit of this tree is considered, by Chinese Taoism and corroborated by scientists , able to prolong life as it has antioxidant properties. In his hand he holds a cane and a book or a scroll. The wisdom of the world remains written in its pages. Jurojin enjoys rice and wine, and is a very cheerful figure.\n\nGod of fortune, guardian of the children, patron of diviners and barmen, and also the god of popularity. He is depicted as a fat, smiling, bald man with a curly moustache. He always appears half naked, as his clothes are not wide enough to cover his enormous belly. He blessed the Chinese, and they nicknamed him \"Cho-Tei-Shi\" or \"Ho-Tei-Shi\", which means ‘bag of old clothes’.\n\nHotei was a Zen priest, but his appearance and some of his actions were against their moral condition: his appearance made him look like quite a mischievous person and he had no fixed place to sleep.\n\nHe carries a bag on his shoulders which is, according to the beliefs, loaded with fortunes for those who believe in his virtues. Hotei's traits and virtue are contentment, magnanimous and happiness.\n\nThe legend explains that Hotei was a real person. His Chinese name was Kaishi, and even though it seems that his date of birth is unknown, his death is recorded as March 916.\n\nThe Japanese began to believe in Hotei during the Edo era. The reason why the Japanese have such great respect for this god comes from a legend that says that, before the Zen Buddhism arrived to Japan, an alternative Buddhist thought was extended by a priest of dubious aesthetic, who actually was a manifestation of Miroku. Miroku was the patron of those who could not be saved by the beliefs of Buddha, and Hotei was later perceived and accepted by the Japanese as a second Miroku.\n\nThis Fukujin goddess is also known as Kisshōten (吉祥天) or Kisshoutennyo (吉祥天女), and is adapted via Buddhism from the Hindu goddess Lakshmi. Kisshōten was given the traits beauty, happiness and fertility. In the 1783 edition of the Butsuzōzui compendium (reprinted in 1796), Kichijōten replaces Fukurokuju as one of the seven Fukujin. Kichijōten's iconography is distinguished from the other Fukujin goddesses by the Nyoihōju gem (如意宝珠) in her hand. When Kichijōten replaces Fukurokuju, and Daikoku is regarded in feminine form, all three of the Hindu Tridevi goddesses are then represented among the seven Fukujin.\n\nDuring the first three days of the New Year the Seven Lucky Gods are said to pilot through the heavens to human ports the Takarabune (宝船) or Treasure Ship. A picture of the ship forms an essential part of traditional Japanese New Year celebrations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9288260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9288260", "title": "Shang Rong", "text": "Shang Rong\n\nShang Rong (Chinese: 商容; Pinyin: Shāng Róng) was a high official of Shang dynasty. He is also a major character featured in the classic Chinese novel \"Fengshen Yanyi\".\n\nShang Rong is renowned as the head Prime Minister over the Shang dynasty – in which he has served for over three generations. Upon seeing the growing cruelty of the king, Shang Rong is too filled with grief to stay in the kingdom. Thus, he asks to be pardoned. Soon after the king has given his consent, Shang Rong is confronted by many loyal officials of the dynasty, who headed out to say a tearful farewell to their respected friend. While addressing the officials outside the capital, Zhaoge, Shang Rong spoke as follows: \"\"My dear princes and colleagues, I would be glad to give my life if I knew it would do any good. You are the pillars of the country; do your best to save the kingdom. Let us drink to old times and I know we will see each other again.\" Thus, after speaking to the officials and composing a short poem as a symbol of his internal anguish, Shang Rong took his leave of the dynasty.\n\nLater on, following the prince-capturing arc, the Crown Prince runs into the home of the retired prime minister, Shang Rong. After Shang Rong heard the whole story about this incident, he sets out once again in an attempt to instill some level of intelligence into King Zhou. After a harsh conflict with the king, Shang Rong continuously remonstrates the king over his foolish ways. Soon enough, even after receiving the threat of being beaten to death with a golden mallet, Shang Rong, speaking in immense anger, says these, his final words: \"I am not afraid to die! But I must ask your late father, my old king Da Yi, to pardon me, his old Prime Minister, for recommending you for the throne. I am so sorry that I cannot help anyone anymore!\"\" Thus, immediately following this, Shang Rong ends his life by banging his head against a nearby column, in order to put his great resentment to a concluding rest.\n\nShang Rong was appointed as the deity of Yutang Star (玉堂星) in the end.\n\n"}
{"id": "529161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529161", "title": "Steve Howe (musician)", "text": "Steve Howe (musician)\n\nStephen James Howe (born 8 April 1947) is an English musician, songwriter and producer, best known as the guitarist in the rock band Yes across three stints since 1970. Born in Holloway, North London, Howe developed an interest in the guitar and began to learn the instrument himself at age 12. He embarked on a music career in 1964, first playing in several London-based blues, covers, and psychedelic rock bands for six years, including the Syndicats, Tomorrow, and Bodast.\n\nUpon joining Yes in 1970, Howe helped to establish the band's change in sound, a change that led to their commercial and critical success. Many of their best-known songs were co-written by Howe, who remained with the band until they briefly disbanded in 1981. Howe returned to the group in 1990 for two years and has remained a full time member since 1995.\n\nHowe achieved further success in the 1980s and beyond as a member of the rock bands Asia, GTR, and Anderson Bruford Wakeman Howe. He also has a prolific solo career, releasing 20 solo albums that reached varied levels of success and collaborated with artists such as Frankie Goes to Hollywood, Martin Taylor, and Queen. He continues to perform with Yes, as a member of his jazz group, the Steve Howe Trio, and as a solo act. In April 2017, Howe was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of Yes.\n\nHowe was born on 8 April 1947 in the north London area of Holloway. He grew up in a middle-class family apartment with three older siblings, brothers Phillip and John, and sister Stella. Among Howe's earliest memories is marching around the home to brass band music that he played on the home stereo. He cites several influences from his parents' record collection including Les Paul and Tennessee Ernie Ford, and also listened to classical guitar and jazz, citing Barney Kessel as a primary influence. Howe also credited Wes Montgomery and Chet Atkins, whom he first heard in 1959, as a major inspiration. Howe said he took from Atkins, \"the idea that one guitarist could play any kind of guitar style.\" Howe was also influenced by Bob Dylan, and spoke of his influence: \"I think he brought out the rebel in me, and that rebel wasn't somebody who wanted to break things, but the rebel in me wanted to do my thing ... a rebellion against anything other than being me ... he became like a cult hero\". Howe attended Holloway School. After he left primary school, he wished to become a guitarist and took up several part-time jobs until he wished to become a full-time musician around 18.\n\nHowe wished to own a guitar at age 10, but his parents did not buy him one until they picked one out with him at a shop in Kings Cross at age 12 for a Christmas present, in 1959. The model was an F-hole acoustic. Howe would stand by a window at home and mime his playing to passers by while music was playing indoors, until he began to teach himself without formal lessons or learning to read musical notation. The only book he read, he claimed, was \"Dance Band Chords for the Guitar\" (1946) by Eric Kershaw. After a period of practise which involved listening to records by Bill Haley & The Comets, Howe teamed with school friends and played his first gig at The Swan, a pub in Tottenham, playing a cover of \"Frightened City\" by The Shadows. He recalled the event as a disaster; the band did not rehearse or tune up, and Howe avoided stage performances for a while as a result. He added: \"We were underage. I was painfully shy. I stood on the side of the stage, played my songs, never looked up\". At 14, Howe and his friend from Tottenham started a group that played in youth clubs, eventually landing gigs in pubs and ballrooms. At one point, the band secured a short residency at HM Prison Pentonville for two nights a week.\n\nAround 1961, Howe bought a solid body Guyatone, his first electric guitar, which was followed with a Gibson ES-175D in 1964, one of the guitars that he later became most identified with. He spoke about playing the guitar on stage: \"No one was playing archtop, hollowbody guitars in a rock band. People laughed at me and thought I was really snooty. To me, it was an object of art, it wasn't just a guitar.\" During Yes's first visit to New York City in 1971, he slept with the guitar as his hotel was situated in a dodgy area and took it to bed \"just for safety, I needed to know it was there\". Before he became a full-time musician Howe took up work at a piano factory, followed by a job in a music shop. He left the shop when he began to pick up regular gigs.\n\nIn 1964, the 17-year-old Howe became a member of his first professional band, the north London-based rhythm and blues group The Syndicats that formed the year prior and were produced by Joe Meek. His first of three studio recordings with the band was a rendition of \"Maybellene\" by Chuck Berry that was released as a single with \"True to Me\" on its B-side, a song Howe co-wrote with their singer, Tom Ladd. In 1965, Howe left the band and accepted an invitation to join The In-Crowd, a soul and covers band who often played in Tottenham and released a rendition of \"That's How Strong My Love Is\" by Otis Redding which went to No. 48 on the UK singles chart in May 1965. The band soon renamed themselves Tomorrow and adopted a psychedelic rock sound, writing more original songs and changing their stage clothes. In 1967, they released two singles: \"My White Bicycle\" and \"Revolution\", the latter co-written by Howe. During the recording of a new single with producer Mark Wirtz, Howe was asked by Wirtz to record some guitar as a session musician, which pleased Howe and felt \"thrilled to bits\" to take part. The session led to Howe recording a selection of singles for EMI, which included his first song \"Mothballs\", also known as \"So Bad\", and playing guitar on Keith West's single \"Excerpt from A Teenage Opera\" which went to No. 2 in the UK. Howe and his Tomorrow bandmates also took part in a pie fight scene in the satirical comedy film \"Smashing Time\" (1967), toured the London club circuit, sharing bills with Pink Floyd and playing at the Christmas on Earth concert at Earl's Court.\n\nAfter Tomorrow split in 1967, Howe went on to play on several songs with their singer Keith West, including playing the bass guitar on West's \"The Kid Was a Killer\", and tracks with guitarist Ronnie Wood and drummer Aynsley Dunbar but neither recording got finished. In 1968, with Howe's reputation as a guitarist on the rise, he joined Bodast, a trio who went by the name of Canto for a short period. They signed a recording deal with Tetragrammaton Records and put down a selection of songs in 1969 at Trident Studios for an album with West as producer, but the label went out of business shortly before its release. The label had also promised the group film roles and visits to the US but they never materialised and they disbanded. Howe released the tracks for the proposed album after he obtained the recordings and remixed them himself as \"The Bodast Tapes\" (1981). He then played with members of the progressive rock band The Nice as a potential new member, but decided it was not for him, and left the next day.\n\nIn April 1970, the rock band Yes sought a new guitarist following the departure of Peter Banks. During early plans for Howe to potentially join Yes, he was invited to a try out session with the band in Fulham, which was a success and landed him the position in June. As Banks had left the band before their second album \"Time and a Word\" was set for release outside Europe, Howe was photographed with the group on its cover despite not playing on it. After several gigs with Howe, the band retreated to a farmhouse in Devon to rehearse and write new material for the band's third album, \"The Yes Album\" (1971). Howe's electric and acoustic guitars, combined with Jon Anderson's vocals, Chris Squire's bass, Bill Bruford's drums, and Tony Kaye's keyboards, were seen as an essential part of the band's change in musical direction towards progressive and art rock. The album includes a live recording of Howe's solo guitar piece \"Clap\", recorded on 17 July at the Lyceum Theatre in London. It was a commercial breakthrough for the group.\n\nKaye left in 1971 and was replaced by Rick Wakeman for the following album, \"Fragile\". This classic Yes line-up of Anderson–Howe–Squire–Bruford–Wakeman is associated with the peak of the band's early achievements. \"Fragile\" is one of the most successful Yes works, a milestone album which raised their stature as one of the most prominent progressive rock groups of the time. In the spring of 1971, both Wakeman and Howe had contributed to the recording of Lou Reed's first solo album as session musicians, working together for the first time on this occasion.\nTo his already-formidable assortment of electric and acoustic guitar sounds, Howe added a unique approach to pedal steel guitar in the next album, \"Close to the Edge\", released in 1972. His penchant for ongoing experimentation helped produce a playing style unique among rock musicians, while the group as a whole took a position as a leading progressive rock band. Following \"Close to the Edge\", Howe played on \"Tales from Topographic Oceans\", \"Relayer\", \"Going for the One\" and \"Tormato\", with Yes becoming one of the most successful bands of the decade. Two of these five albums achieved platinum certification in the US, and the other three were certified gold.\n\nIn 1975, Yes took an extended break for each member to release a solo album. Howe recorded a mixture of solo and group performed tracks for \"Beginnings\" at Morgan and Advision Studios with producer Eddie Offord, with performances from Bruford, Alan White, Patrick Moraz, and singer Claire Hamill. The album was released in October 1975 by Atlantic Records and reached No. 22 in the UK and No. 63 in the US. His second solo album, \"The Steve Howe Album,\" was released in November 1979.\n\nIn early 1980, Anderson and Wakeman left the group and were replaced a few weeks later by Trevor Horn and Geoff Downes. 1980's \"Drama\" saw a stylistic change for Yes, incorporating elements of new wave into their progressive rock blend. Howe continued with the band until Yes officially split up in early 1981. Although the group was back together less than a year later, Howe was not included in the new line-up.\n\nIn 1981, Howe teamed with Downes, singer and bassist John Wetton, and drummer Carl Palmer to form the supergroup Asia. Their debut album, \"Asia\" (1982), became highest selling album of 1982 in the US with 4 million copies sold there; Howe is credited on five of its nine tracks. When it came to writing their second album \"Alpha\" (1982), Howe noticed a sense of staleness and the songs too direct and concise which disrupted the group's creativity and musical direction. After its release, Howe left the group in 1983 citing irreconcilable differences with Wetton. Following his departure, Howe performed an acoustic guitar solo on \"Welcome to the Pleasuredome\" on the 1984 same titled album by the pop group Frankie Goes to Hollywood that Horn produced. He also played on \"Industry Standard\" (1982) by The Dregs.\n\nIn 1985, Howe formed another supergroup, GTR, named after an abbreviation of the word \"guitar\", with guitarist Steve Hackett. The idea came from Howe's manager and former Yes and Asia manager Brian Lane, who brought the two together as both wished to perform in a band after a period of solo work. They were joined by singer Max Bacon, drummer Jonathan Mover, and bassist Phil Spalding. They recorded one studio album, \"GTR\", produced by Downes. Howe noted Hackett and himself made the conscious effort to produce a pop album without \"flashy guitar solos\" as it was something listeners may not wish to hear and may be classified as self-indulgent. He added: \"Musically, we stayed out of each other's way and gave each other space. If egos get in the way, nobody wins.\" \"GTR\" was released in July 1986 on Arista Records, reached No. 11 in the US and was certified gold, and No. 41 in the UK. The lead single, \"When the Heart Rules the Mind\", went to No. 14 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart. GTR supported the album with a concert tour in 1986. At its conclusion, Hackett's interest in pursuing solo projects led to his departure. In 1987, Howe commissioned Robert Berry as Hackett's replacement, and ideas of a new band name included Steve Howe and Friends and Nero and the Trend. After several demos were recorded, the group disbanded.\n\nIn 1988, the guitar compilation album \"Guitar Speak\" on I.R.S. Records was released which features Howe's track \"Sharp on Attack\". The label organised a UK tour named Night of the Guitars with Howe in the line-up, performing \"Clap\", \"Wurm\", and the all-cast encore. Howe also contributed to \"Transportation\" (1988), the first solo album by Billy Currie. Later that year, Jon Anderson invited Howe to take part in a new album he wished to perform with Rick Wakeman and Bill Bruford as a new group, Anderson Bruford Wakeman Howe. In 1990, the four joined forces with the 1983–88 line-up of Yes—Chris Squire, Alan White, Trevor Rabin, and Tony Kaye—to contribute songs for the Yes album \"Union\" (1991). At the end of its supporting tour in 1992, Howe played the guitar and co-produced \"Symphonic Music of Yes\" (1993), an album of orchestral arrangements of Yes tracks. In 1991, he is featured on \"Polar Shift: A Benefit for Antarctica\", a benefit jazz and ambient album to the Cousteau Society. In 1992, Howe left Yes after Bruford, Wakeman and himself were not invited to participate to record the next Yes album, \"Talk\" (1994).\n\nDuring the \"Union\" tour Howe released his third solo album, \"Turbulence\", in 1991 on Relativity Records. In a departure from his earlier two albums, Howe focused on rock instrumentals that feature Currie, Bruford, and drummer Nigel Glockler. The tracks were recorded some time before, but Howe had some difficulty in finding a record label who would release the album as the majority wanted it to include hit single. Howe recorded a cover of \"Classical Gas\" with Bruford, but the track was dropped as Howe thought it did not attain the same standard as the rest of the album, which he described as \"very real and original, as opposed to commercial\". Howe also contributed a flamenco guitar solo to the 1991 UK number one single \"Innuendo\" by Queen, something he felt proud to have played on. In 1992, Downes reformed Asia which marked the return of Howe on their album \"Aqua\" (1992) playing on six of the album's 13 tracks, as well as playing on the subsequent tour as a special guest.\n\nHowe's fourth solo album, \"The Grand Scheme of Things\", was released in August 1993 on Relativity. Howe described the album as \"quite colourful but quite personal ... There's a lot of floaty sort of ideas—spiritual\". It is his first album to feature his sons Dylan and Virgil on drums and keyboards and piano, respectively. Dylan was planned to only play on a few tracks, but Howe decided to play on the entire album. Upon release, it reached No. 15 on the \"Billboard\" Top New Age Albums chart. Following the album's release, Howe began his first solo tour in 1993 which included dates in the UK and the US, and spawned his first live album, \"Not Necessarily Acoustic\" (1994). A second tour took place in late 1994 which was documented on his second live release, \"Pulling Strings\" (1998).\n\nHowe rejoined Yes for a third time in 1995 for the recording of \"Keys to Ascension\" and \"Keys to Ascension 2\", the two double albums containing both live and studio tracks. Since \"Keys to Ascension\", Howe has appeared on all the albums recorded by Yes. Thereafter, over the following five years, the group released \"Open Your Eyes\" in 1997, \"The Ladder\" in 1999 and \"Magnification\" in 2001, before going on a four-year hiatus between 2004 and 2008. Following their hiatus, Yes released \"Fly from Here\" in 2011 and \"Heaven & Earth\" in 2014.\n\nOn 24 May 1996, Howe received an honorary doctorate in Musical Arts (DMA) from Five Towns College in Dix Hills, New York. Also in 1996 he played with Asia on a song called Ginger meant for \"Arena\", but was left off the album and was released on \"Archiva Vol. 1\" later that year. He also added his guitar to two of the songs from \"Aura\", released in 2001.\n\nIn 2001, Howe released \"Natural Timbre\", exclusively with acoustic guitars. His son Dylan played the drums on his 1998 all-instrumental solo release, \"Quantum Guitar,\" while \"Elements,\" released in 2003, featured both Dylan and Virgil as part of Howe's album \"Remedy\".\nIn 2007, Howe founded the Steve Howe Trio, a jazz band completed by his son Dylan on drums and Ross Stanley on Hammond organ. The Steve Howe Trio has released two albums: a studio album, \"The Haunted Melody\" in 2008 and a live album, \"Travelling\" in 2010.\n\nHowe rejoined the other three founding members of Asia in a 25th-anniversary reunion tour in late 2006. Since that time Asia have released a DVD, \"Fantasia\", and a new CD of music called \"Phoenix\" in April 2008. In early 2010 the band released their second reunion CD, \"Omega\". The band's third reunion album entitled \"XXX\" was released in July 2012. On 10 January 2013, Howe left the band for the third time, to focus on Yes, his solo work and his trio. The three remaining founding members decided to carry on without him. He was replaced by Sam Coulson.\n\nIn March 2015, a two-disc, 33-track collection of Howe's solo material was released as \"Anthology\". Howe supported its release with a solo tour of the UK in April 2015.\n\nHowe teamed up with his other (multi-instrumentalist) son Virgil Howe for new album \"Nexus\", released on 17 November 2017. The album was released by Steve Howe after the death of Virgil Howe in early September 2017; Virgil's death resulted in Yes suspending their ongoing Yestival tour i.e. cancelling the seven remaining dates.\n\nHowe was voted \"Best Overall Guitarist\" in \"Guitar Player\" magazine five years in a row (1977–1981) and in 1981 was the first rock guitar player inducted into the \"Guitar Player\" Hall of Fame. The only other two guitarists to win the \"Best Overall Guitarist\" category for the \"Gallery of Greats\" are Steve Morse and Eric Johnson.\n\nGibson Guitar Corporation, the maker of Howe's second electric guitar (which he was still playing forty years later), said that Howe \"elevated rock guitar into an art form\" and \"helped define a new style of music known as art rock.\" In a tribute to Howe and his personal favourite ES-175 guitar, Gibson produced a Steve Howe Signature ES-175 in 2002.\n\nHowe will receive a Prog God award at the 2018 Progressive Music Awards in September.\n\nHowe married his wife Janet in 1968. They have four children: Dylan, Virgil, Georgia and Stephanie. Dylan was a member of The Blockheads, is part of the Steve Howe Trio with his father, and toured alongside him as Yes' second drummer in 2017. Virgil was a member of the rock/R&B band Little Barrie, and died on 12 September 2017.\n\nIn 1972, Howe became a vegetarian and avoids taking unnecessary pharmaceutical drugs. He ate his last meat meal during a North American tour with Yes in 1971. Howe spoke about his experience with Transcendental Meditation: \"I had been experimenting with different approaches to meditation for some time and then in 1983 I picked transcendental meditation as the one for me. I'm still doing it. I really like it and so do a lot of other people. It's not demanding. It's not about a religion. ... It's had a major, positive effect on me. I know that for sure.\" Howe completes the practice daily.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "76030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76030", "title": "The Producers (1967 film)", "text": "The Producers (1967 film)\n\nThe Producers is a 1967 American satirical comedy film written and directed by Mel Brooks and starring Zero Mostel, Gene Wilder, Dick Shawn, and Kenneth Mars. The film was Brooks's directorial debut, and he won an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay.\n\nDecades later, the film was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry and placed eleventh on the AFI's 100 Years...100 Laughs list. It was later adapted by Brooks and Thomas Meehan as a stage musical, which itself was adapted into a film.\n\nThe once-great Max Bialystock (Zero Mostel) had once been the toast of Broadway, but now he has been reduced to a washed-up, aging, fraudulent, corruptible, and greedy Broadway producer who barely ekes out a hand-to-mouth existence romancing lascivious, wealthy elderly women (\"angels\" in theatrical terms) in exchange for money for his next play. Accountant Leopold \"Leo\" Bloom (Gene Wilder), a young man who is highly nervous and prone to hysterics, arrives at Max's office to do his books and discovers a $2,000 discrepancy in the accounts of Max's last play. Max persuades Leo to hide the relatively minor fraud, and while shuffling numbers, Leo has a revelation: a producer could make a lot more money with a flop than a hit by overselling shares in the production, because no one will audit the books of a play presumed to have lost money. Max immediately puts this scheme into action. They will oversell shares on a massive scale and produce a play that will close on opening night, thus avoiding payouts and leaving the duo free to flee to Rio de Janeiro with the profits. Leo is afraid such a criminal venture will fail and they will go to prison, but Max eventually convinces him that his drab existence is no better than prison.\n\nAfter reading many bad plays, the partners find the obvious choice for their scheme: \"Springtime for Hitler: A Gay Romp with Adolf and Eva at Berchtesgaden.\" It is \"a love letter to Hitler\" written in total sincerity by deranged ex-Nazi Franz Liebkind (Kenneth Mars). Max and Leo persuade Liebkind to sign over the stage rights, telling him they want to show the world \"the Hitler you loved, the Hitler you knew, the Hitler with a song in his heart.\" To guarantee that the show is a flop, they hire Roger De Bris (Christopher Hewett), a director whose plays \"close on the first day of rehearsal.\" The part of Hitler goes to a charismatic, but only semicoherent, flower power hippie named Lorenzo Saint DuBois, also known as L.S.D. (Dick Shawn), who can barely remember his own name, wears a can of soup attached to a rope as a necklace, and mistakenly wandered into the theater during the casting call. Max sells 25,000% of the play to his regular investors.\n\nThe result of all this is a cheerfully upbeat and utterly tasteless musical play purporting to be about the happy home life of a brutal dictator. It opens with a lavish production of the title song, \"Springtime for Hitler,\" which celebrates Nazi Germany crushing Europe (\"Springtime for Hitler and Germany/Winter for Poland and France\"). After seeing the audience's dumbfounded disbelief, Max and Leo, confident that the play will be a flop, go to a bar across the street to celebrate and get drunk. Unbeknownst to them, the audience ends up finding L.S.D.'s beatnik-like portrayal (and constant misinterpretations of the story) hilarious and misinterprets the production as a satire. During intermission, some members of the audience come to the bar at which Max and Leo are drinking and rave about the play, much to Max and Leo's shared horror. The two decide to return to the theater after intermission to hear what the rest of the audience has to say, which echoes what the others have already said. Meanwhile, L.S.D.'s portrayal of Hitler enrages and humiliates Franz, who — after going behind the stage, untying the cable holding up the curtain, and rushing out on stage — confronts the audience and rants about the treatment of his beloved play. However, someone behind the curtain manages to knock him out and remove him from the stage, and the audience assumes that Franz's rant was part of the act. \"Springtime For Hitler\" is declared a smash hit, which means, of course, that the investors will be expecting a larger financial return than can be paid out, which leads to Max angrily confronting De Bris, blaming him for the play being a hit (despite it being his own fault, as he was the one who hired L.S.D. to play Hitler) when De Bris goes to congratulate him, even scaring De Bris away at this point. Frustrated and miserable, Max then laments, “I was so careful... I picked the wrong play, the wrong director, the wrong cast... where did I go right?”\n\nAs Max and Leo, stunned, turn on each other and brutally fight over Leo's accountant books (which Leo was going to use to turn himself in), a gun-wielding Franz confronts them, accusing them of breaking the \"Siegfried Oath\". After failing to shoot Max and Leo, Franz tries to shoot himself, but runs out of bullets. Leo comforts Franz, while Max tries to convince Franz to kill the actors, but Leo intervenes. After a reconciliation, the three band together and decide to blow up the theater to end the production, but they are injured, arrested, tried, and found \"incredibly guilty\" by the jury. Before sentencing, Leo makes an impassioned statement praising Max for changing his life and being his friend (while also referring to him as \"the most selfish man I have ever met in my life\"), and Max tells the judge that they have learned their lesson.\n\nMax, Leo, and Franz are sent to the state penitentiary. There they produce a new play called \"Prisoners of Love\", a show which proves to be even worse than \"Springtime For Hitler\" (mostly because, this time, Leo and Max are actually striving to make a good play instead of a bad one). While Max and Franz earnestly supervise rehearsals, Leo continues their old scam—overselling shares of the play to their fellow prisoners, and even to the warden. The song \"Prisoners of Love\" plays while the credits roll.\n\nThe Ladies\n\nThe title \"Springtime for Hitler\" was first coined by Brooks as a joke during the press conference for \"All American\" in 1962. Shortly afterwards, he also decided to relate this title to a character named Leo Bloom, an homage to Leopold Bloom, protagonist of James Joyce's \"Ulysses.\" It was reused by him years later once he had an idea about \"two schnooks on Broadway who set out to produce a flop and swindle the backers.\" The inspiration was some people Brooks met during his early show business days: Benjamin Kutcher, a New York producer who financed his plays by sleeping with elderly women, became the basis for Max Bialystock, and the scheme had origins in two theater producers who had a lavish lifestyle while making various unsuccessful plays. When imagining what play \"would have people packing up and leaving the theatre even before the first act is over,\" Brooks decided to combine Adolf Hitler and a musical.\n\nBrooks first envisioned his story as a novel, and changed it to a play when he realized it had \"too much dialogue, not enough story.\" He wrote the script in nine months, with the help of secretary Alfa-Betty Olsen. During the process, he mentioned in an October 1966 interview with \"Playboy\" that he was working on \"Springtime for Hitler,\" \"a play within a play, or a play within a film – I haven’t decided yet.\" Then, it evolved into a screenplay to take advantage of various settings, as \"it could go places, it wouldn’t have to stay in the office.\"\n\nAs Brooks sought backers for his 30-page film treatment, both major film studios and independent filmmakers rejected \"Springtime for Hitler,\" finding the idea of using Hitler for comedy outrageous and tasteless (with some even stating that they would consider the script if Brooks changed it to \"Springtime for Mussolini\"). This changed as Brooks's agent arranged him to have a meeting with a friend of his, New York producer Sidney Glazier. Glazier laughed so much at Brooks' performance of the script, he accepted the project by saying, “We’re gonna make it! I don’t know how, but we’re gonna make this movie!”\n\nGlazier budgeted the film at $1 million, and sought financiers. Half the money came from philanthropist Louis Wolfson, who liked the idea of laughing at a dictator, and the remainder, along with the distribution, was arranged by Joseph E. Levine of Embassy Pictures. Levine's only condition was to change the title, as he felt many distributors would not carry a picture named \"Springtime for Hitler.\" Brooks renamed it \"The Producers,\" considering it ironic as \"these guys are anything but producers.\" As Brooks \"couldn't think of anybody to direct it,\" eventually he decided to take the task for himself, even though he himself had only directed one play before. While Levine was insecure in having an inexperienced director, Brooks convinced him by saying it would be cost-effective, and he knew how to do physical comedy after being a stage manager in \"Your Show of Shows.\"\n\nBrooks wanted Samuel “Zero” Mostel as Max Bialystock, feeling he was an energetic actor who could convey such an egotistical character. Glazier sent the script to Mostel's lawyer, but the attorney hated it and never showed it to the actor. Eventually, Brooks had to send the script through Mostel's wife Kathryn Harkin. While Mostel did not like the prospect of playing “a Jewish producer going to bed with old women on the brink of the grave,” his wife liked the script so much, she eventually convinced him to accept the role. Mostel allowed all his pent-up hostilities towards all the sources of his professional disappointments to spill over into his performance as Bialystock, making his a bitter, hate-filled, and often angry interpretation.\n\nGene Wilder met Brooks in 1963, as Wilder performed with Brooks' then-girlfriend Anne Bancroft in a stage adaptation of \"Mother Courage.\" Wilder complained that the audience was laughing at his serious performance, and Brooks replied that Wilder was \"a natural comic, you look like Harpo Marx,\" and said he would cast him as Leo Bloom once he finished the then-titled \"Springtime for Hitler.\" When production arrived, Peter Sellers accepted an invitation to play Leo Bloom, but he never contacted again, so Brooks remembered Wilder, who was about to make his film debut in \"Bonnie and Clyde.\" Wilder received the script to \"The Producers\" as Brooks visited him backstage during a performance of \"Luv,\" and his co-star Renée Taylor was brought for a brief appearance as Eva Braun.\n\nDustin Hoffman was originally cast as Liebkind. According to Brooks, late on the night before shooting began, Hoffman begged Brooks to let him out of his commitment to do the role so he could audition for the starring role in \"The Graduate.\" Brooks was aware of the film, which co-starred Brooks's now-wife, Anne Bancroft, and, skeptical that Hoffman would get the role, agreed to let him audition. When Hoffman did win the role of Ben Braddock, Brooks called in Kenneth Mars as Liebkind. Mars was originally invited because Brooks envisioned him as Roger De Bris, given he played a gay psychiatrist on Broadway. Instead, Mars was interested in Liebkind's role, which was his film debut and had him remain on the role while not filming as method acting. De Bris was instead portrayed by Christopher Hewett, the first actor who read for the role.\n\nOnce recent American Academy of Dramatic Arts graduate Lee Meredith was invited to audition, she was given the condition of knowing a Swedish accent. She borrowed a book from the AADA library to learn the accent, and won the role of Ulla with the screen test featuring the scene of her dancing. Bancroft suggested her friend Andréas Voutsinas for the role of Carmen Ghia, feeling his thick Greek accent would fit. Brooks thought of Dick Shawn to play Lorenzo “L.S.D.” Saint DuBois, and the actor accepted for both liking the part and having no work. Bill Macy, the husband in the TV series \"Maude,\" was brought for a cameo as a jury foreman. Writer-director Mel Brooks is heard briefly in the film, his voice dubbed over a dancer singing, \"Don't be stupid, be a smarty/Come and join the Nazi Party,\" in the song \"Springtime For Hitler\". His version of the line is also dubbed into each performance of the musical, as well as the 2005 movie version.\n\nPrincipal photography for \"The Producers\" began on May 22, 1967. Filming had to be done in 40 days on a $941,000 budget, and Brooks managed to fit both requests. The primary location was the Chelsea Studios in New York City, where the musical version (2005) was also shot. The now-demolished Playhouse Theatre hosted the \"Springtime for Hitler\" play, and various actors who heard the film was seeking an actor for Hitler were cast in the musical number. The crew tried to film on location whenever possible, filming on such midtown Manhattan locales as Central Park, the Empire State Building, and Lincoln Center.\n\nBrooks's lack of knowledge of filmmaking had him committing many mistakes during production, requiring the help of assistant director Michael Hertzberg. Being both inexperienced and insecure, Brooks started to have tantrums and behave angrily. He got impatient with the slow development compared to how quick television production was, temporarily banned Glazier from the set, berated a visiting reporter from \"The New York Times,\" and had clashes with cinematographer Joseph Coffey and main actor Zero Mostel. Mostel also had a troublesome behavior caused by a leg injury received in a 1960 bus accident, which made his contract feature a clause dismissing Mostel from any work after 5:30 pm. Given the fact that the leg injury got worse in humid weather, the last scene at the Lincoln Center's fountain had Mostel throwing a fit and giving up on production. Glazier had to leave a dentist's appointment and rush to the set where Mostel and Brooks were arguing, and once the producer managed to calm them down, the resulting scene had to be shot all night long.\n\nDespite being described as a lavish production number, \"Springtime for Hitler\" was not ready until the first rehearsals. Brooks sat with Olsen and first-time composer John Morris at the piano, and improvised some lyrics. Morris then developed the stage performance with choreographer Alan Johnson, instructed to do the number \"big, wonderful, flashy, but terrible.\" As Brooks kept suggesting bizarre costume ideas to enhance the burlesque nature of \"Springtime for Hitler\", such as women with clothes inspired by beer mugs and pretzels, Johnson decided to showcase them all in a parade.\n\nFew scenes had to be altered from the original script. Leo and Max would visit the Parachute Jump in Coney Island, but the attraction was closed by the time filming began. Brooks filmed Liebkind making Max and Leo swear the Siegfried Oath, where they promised fealty to \"Siegfried,\" accompanied by \"The Ride of the Valkyries\" and wearing horned helmets. But feeling that it \"went overboard,\" Brooks cut the scene, which was restored in the stage adaptation.\n\nThe art direction and costumes emphasized the color yellow, which Brooks considered a funny color. For the posters in Bialystock's office, production designer Charles Rosen found a collector in the Theater District and doctored a few posters to include the character's name. Rosen also incorporated an anecdote of his life, as he had to share a small elevator with a flamboyant Broadway director, to design the lift at Roger De Bris's house. Post-production extended for months, as Brooks had gotten final cut privilege, but still had complaints with Ralph Rosenblum regarding his editing.\n\nAccording to Brooks, after the film was completed, Embassy executives refused to release it as being in \"bad taste.\" The film's premiere in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on November 22, 1967, was a disaster and the studio considered shelving it. However, Peter Sellers saw the film privately and placed an advertisement in \"Variety\" in support of the film's wider release.\nSellers was familiar with the film because, according to Brooks, Sellers \"had accepted the role of Bloom and then was never heard from again.\" The film allegedly was \"banned in Germany.\"\n\nIn Sweden, however, the title literally translates as \"Springtime for Hitler.\" As a result of its success, all but two of Mel Brooks movies in Swedish have been given similar titles: \"Springtime for Mother-In-Law\" (\"The Twelve Chairs\"); \"Springtime for the Sheriff\" (\"Blazing Saddles\"); \"Springtime for Frankenstein\" (\"Young Frankenstein\"); \"Springtime for the Silent Movies\" (\"Silent Movie\"); \"Springtime for the Lunatics\" (\"High Anxiety\"); \"Springtime for World History\" (\"History of the World, Part I\"); \"Springtime for Space\" (\"Spaceballs\"); and \"Springtime for the Slum\" (\"Life Stinks\").\n\nWhen it was first released, the film received a mixed response and garnered some exceptionally harsh reviews, while others considered it a great success. One of the mixed reviews came from Renata Adler, who, writing for \"The New York Times,\" stated: \"\"The Producers\", which opened yesterday at the Fine Arts Theater, is a violently mixed bag. Some of it is shoddy and gross and cruel; the rest is funny in an entirely unexpected way.\" About the acting, she writes that Mostel is \"overacting grotesquely under the direction of Mel Brooks\" and that, in the role of \"Max Bialystock,\" he is \"as gross and unfunny as only an enormous comedian bearing down too hard on some frail, tasteless routines can be.\" Co-star Wilder fares better and is called \"wonderful,\" thanks to doing \"fine,\" despite being \"forced to be as loud and as fast as Mostel\" and \"[g]oing through long, infinitely variegated riffs and arpeggios of neuroticism,\" and playing his part \"as though he were Dustin Hoffman being played by Danny Kaye.\" She also puts the movie into the bigger context of \"contemporary\" comedy and that it has the same \"episodic, revue quality\" in the way it is \"not building laughter, but stringing it together skit after skit, some vile, some boffo.\" Her early conclusion, at the end of the first paragraph, is also a comparison to other comedic movies of the time, it reads: \"[\"The Producers\"] is less delicate than Lenny Bruce, less funny than \"Dr. Strangelove,\" but much funnier than \"The Loved One\" or \"What's New Pussycat?\"\"\n\nThe more critical and negative reviews partly targeted the directorial style and broad ethnic humor, but also commonly noted the bad taste and insensitivity of devising a broad comedy about two Jews conspiring to cheat theatrical investors by devising a designed-to-fail tasteless Broadway musical about Hitler only 23 years after the end of World War II. Among the most harsh critics were Stanley Kauffmann in \"The New Republic,\" who wrote that \"the film bloats into sogginess\" and Pauline Kael who called it \"amateurishly crude\" in \"The New Yorker.\"\n\nOn the other hand, others considered the film to be a great success. \"Time\" magazine's reviewers wrote that the film was \"hilariously funny\" but pointed out that \"the film is burdened with the kind of plot that demands resolution\" but unfortunately \"ends in a whimper of sentimentality.\" Although they labelled it \"disjointed and inconsistent\", they also praised it as \"a wildly funny joy ride\", and concluded by saying that \"despite its bad moments, [it] is some of the funniest American cinema comedy in years.\" The film industry trade paper \"Variety\" wrote, \"The film is unmatched in the scenes featuring Mostel and Wilder alone together, and several episodes with other actors are truly rare.\"\n\nOver the years, the film has gained in stature. It has garnered a 90% approval rating from Rotten Tomatoes, based on 69 reviews with an average rating of 8.1/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"A hilarious satire of the business side of Hollywood, \"The Producers\" is one of Mel Brooks' finest, as well as funniest films, featuring standout performances by Gene Wilder and Zero Mostel.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 97 out of 100, based on critics, making it one of the highest-rated films on the site, as well as the second-highest-rated comedy (behind \"The Wizard of Oz\"). In his review decades later, Roger Ebert claimed, \"this is one of the funniest movies ever made.\" Ebert wrote, \"I remember finding myself in an elevator with Brooks and his wife, actress Anne Bancroft, in New York City a few months after \"The Producers\" was released. A woman got onto the elevator, recognized him and said, 'I have to tell you, Mr. Brooks, that your movie is vulgar.' Brooks smiled benevolently. 'Lady,' he said, 'it rose below vulgarity.'\"\n\nIn 1968, Mel Brooks won the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay, and Gene Wilder was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. In addition, Zero Mostel was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy, and Brooks was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Screenplay.\n\nIn 1969, \"The Producers\" won a Writers Guild of America, East Best Original Screenplay award.\n\nIn 1996, the film was deemed \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\" by the United States Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\nIn 2002, \"The Producers\" was re-released in three theaters by Rialto Pictures and earned $111,866 at the box office. As of 2007, the film continues to be distributed to art-film and repertory cinemas by Rialto.\n\nBrooks has adapted the story twice more, as a Broadway musical (\"The Producers,\" 2001) and a film based on the musical (\"The Producers,\" 2005). He did not direct the latter.\n\nThis film has spawned several home media releases on VHS, Laserdisc, CED, and VCD from companies such as Magnetic Video, Embassy Home Entertainment, PolyGram Video, Speedy, and Lumiere Video. A 1997 letterbox edition Laserdisc was released by PolyGram Video, which served as the basis for the extremely rare 1998 PolyGram DVD release.\n\nMGM (which owns most U.S rights to the Embassy Pictures library on behalf of StudioCanal) released \"The Producers\" on DVD (R1) in 2002 and 2005 (to coincide with the remake released that year). In 2011, MGM licensed the title to Shout! Factory to release a DVD and Blu-ray combo pack with new HD transfers and bonus materials. StudioCanal (worldwide rights holder to all of the Embassy Pictures library) released several R2 DVD editions and Blu-ray B releases using a transfer slightly different from the North American DVD and BDs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23892158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23892158", "title": "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image", "text": "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image\n\n\"Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image\" () is an abbreviated form of one of the Ten Commandments which, according to the Book of Deuteronomy, were spoken by God to the Israelites and then written on stone tablets by the Finger of God.\n\nAlthough no single biblical passage contains a complete definition of idolatry, the subject is addressed in numerous passages, so that idolatry may be summarized as the worship of idols or images; the worship of polytheistic gods by use of idols or images; the worship of created things (trees, rocks, animals, astronomical bodies, or another human being); and the use of idols in the worship of God (YHWH Elohim, the God of Israel). In the New Testament covetousness (greed) is defined as idolatry. When the commandment was given, opportunities to participate in the honor or worship of idols abounded, and the religions of Canaanite tribes neighboring the Israelites often centered on a carefully constructed and maintained cult idol. However, according to the book of Deuteronomy the Israelites were strictly warned to neither adopt nor adapt any of the religious practices of the peoples around them.\n\nNevertheless, the story of the people of Israel until the Babylonian Captivity includes the violation of this commandment as well as the one before it, \"Thou shalt have no other gods before me\". Much of biblical preaching from the time of Moses to the exile is predicated on the either–or choice between exclusive worship of God and idols. The Babylonian exile seems to have been a turning point after which the Jewish people as a whole were strongly monotheistic and willing to fight battles (such as the Maccabean Revolt) and face martyrdom before paying homage to any other god.\nAccording to the psalmist and the prophet Isaiah, those who worship inanimate idols will be like them, that is, unseeing, unfeeling, unable to hear the truth that God would communicate to them. Paul the Apostle identifies the worship of created things (rather than the Creator) as the cause of the disintegration of sexual and social morality in his letter to the Romans. Although the commandment implies that the worship of God is not compatible with the worship of idols, the status of an individual as an idol worshiper or a God worshiper is not portrayed as predetermined and unchangeable in the Bible. When the covenant is renewed under Joshua, the Israelites are encouraged to throw away their foreign gods and \"choose this day whom you will serve\". King Josiah, when he becomes aware of the terms of God's covenant, zealously works to rid his kingdom of idols. According to the book of Acts, Paul tells the Athenians that though their city is full of idols, the true God is represented by none of them and requires them to turn away from idols.\n\nThe English word \"idol\" in translations of the Bible may represent any of several Hebrew words. In the commandment \"You shall not make for yourselves an idol\", the word is \"pesel\", indicating something carved or hewn. In subsequent passages, \"pesel\" was applied to images of metal and wood, as well as those of stone. Other terms, such as \"nēsek\" and \"massēkâ\", \"massēbâ\", \"ōseb\", and \"maskit\" also indicate a material or manner of manufacture.\n\nSome terms represent the consistently negative moral view with which idols are portrayed by the Bible. For example, idols are referred to as \"non-God,\" \"things of naught,\" \"vanity,\" \"iniquity,\" \"wind and confusion,\" \"the dead,\" \"carcasses,\" and \"a lie\". Other terms are deliberately contemptuous, such as \"elilim\", \"powerless ones\", and \"gillulim\", \"pellets of dung\".\n\nThe idols of the Ancient Near East were central figures of the tribal cults around the Israelites. They are said to have been placed upon pedestals, clothed and colored, and fastened with chains of silver or nails of iron lest they should fall over or be carried off. To demonstrate victory over an enemy's idols, it was customary to take away the idols of the vanquished, and a similar custom is frequently mentioned in the cuneiform texts.\n\nScholars have discussed whether idol worshipers made a distinction between a spiritual being that existed independently of idols and the physical idols themselves. Some scholars opine that the pagans in the Hebrew Bible did not literally worship the objects themselves, so that the issue of idolatry is really concerned with whether one is pursuing a \"false god\" or \"the true God\". In addition to the spiritual aspect of their worship, peoples in the Ancient Near East took great care to physically maintain their cult idols and thought that the instructions for their manufacture and maintenance came from the spirit of the god. Magical ceremonies were performed through which the people believed the spirit of the god came to live in the physical idol. When idols were captured or not cared for, the associated religious practices also flagged. So while scholars may debate the relative importance of belief in the physical object or the spirit it represented or housed, in practice the distinction was not easy to discern.\n\nIdolatry is prohibited in many biblical passages, although there is no single section that contains a complete definition. Rather there are a number of commandments on this subject spread through the books of the Tanakh, and taking these passages together, idolatry may be defined as the worship of idols (or images); the worship of polytheistic gods by use of idols (or images); the worship of created things (trees, rocks, animals, astronomical bodies, or another human being); and even the use of idols in the worship of the God of Israel.\n\nThe question has been raised whether the ancient view of this command prohibits images of Yahweh. Some scholars have proposed that the golden calf made by Aaron (while Moses was on the mountain receiving the Ten Commandments) was supposed to represent Yahweh, or perhaps a throne or steed on which the people were to envision Yahweh. According to Exodus 32:7-8, in a divine speech to Moses, Yahweh reveals the events going on at the base of Mt. Sinai to Moses, judging the golden calf to be a violation of the recently revealed law: \"They have turned aside quickly from the way that I commanded them\". Others point out that the golden calf episode leads to the breaking of the tablets of the Decalogue, something that implies that the covenant had been violated. This event and the plurality of the language used in the second commandment leads many scholars to conclude that it prohibits the making of any image of Yahweh as well as any image of a created thing to which divinity would be ascribed.\n\nIn a number of places the ancient texts assert that God has no shape or form and is utterly incomparable; thus no idol, image, idea, or anything in creation could ever capture God's essence. The narrative in Deuteronomy 4 recounts that when the Israelites were visited by God at Mt. Sinai at the time the Ten Commandments were given, they saw no shape or form and this is stated as a reason why any physical representation of the divine is prohibited – no idols of humans, animals, or heavenly bodies were to be made. Rather than use an idol, God chose to reveal himself in words, by working through people, and by working in history.\n\nAccording to the Book of Joshua, Abraham came from a land and a family that worshiped strange gods. However, when their God revealed himself to Abraham and called him to leave his native land for Canaan, he did so. According to the Book of Genesis, image worship existed in the time of Jacob, from the account of Rachel taking \"teraphim\" along with her on leaving her father Laban's house.\n\nAs the leadership of Israel passed from Moses to Joshua, the covenant between Israel and God was renewed and warnings were repeated against adapting or adopting the customs of idol worship among the people the Israelites would encounter, on penalty of corporate destruction and loss of the promised land. Through the centuries, idolatry became pervasive among the Israelites and supported by many of their kings, despite repeated warnings from the prophets and culminating in the Babylonian Exile. Along with the original warnings was a promise of restoration for those who would turn away from idols and back to God. However, after repeated refusals to turn away from idols over time, God announced through the prophet Jeremiah that the covenant was broken beyond repair and the judgment (Babylonian Captivity) was sure to happen.\n\nThe commandments in the Hebrew Bible against idolatry also forbade the adoption of the beliefs and practices of the nations who lived around the Israelites at the time, especially the religions of ancient Mesopotamia, and Egypt. In dozens of passages, the Hebrew Bible refers to specific practices used to worship idols, including the offering of incense, prayers, food, drink, and blood offerings, singing and dancing, cutting one's flesh, bowing down to and kissing the idol, lewd behavior, passing one's children through the fire, cultic male and female prostitution, and human sacrifice, including child sacrifice.\n\nThe ancient understanding apparently did not conflict with the artistic rendering of created things, and the Bible describes the Tabernacle, and later the Temple, as having tapestries and objects incorporating cherubim, flowers, fruits, trees, and animals.\n\nHowever, sometimes objects that God instructed to be made were turned into idols by the Israelites. The Book of Numbers contains a narrative in which God instructed Moses to make a bronze snake as part of addressing a plague of venomous snakes that had broken out among the Israelites as a punishment for sin. The bronze snake is mentioned again in 2 Kings 18; however, rather than remaining a memorial of God's providence, it became an idol that the people named and worshiped. Thus the bronze snake was destroyed in King Hezekiah's reforms.\n\nAccording to Exodus 25 and 37, the Ark of the Covenant was a rectangular container overlaid with pure gold with two gold cherubim on its cover. It was considered holy; it was kept in the Holy of Holies, the innermost part of the Tabernacle (and later the Temple), was not to be touched directly, and was only to be transported in a prescribed manner. However, it was not to be an object of worship, and when the Israelites carried it into war like a cult idol, assuming it would guarantee victory, they were defeated, suffering 30,000 casualties, and the Ark was captured and taken to the temple of a foreign god.\n\nA narrative in 1 Kings 12:28-30 describes how Jeroboam had golden calves made for places of worship at Bethel and Dan. This was done for political purposes, to distance the allegiance of the Israelites from loyalty to worship in Jerusalem, which was in Judah and ruled by King Rehoboam. The text says, \"This thing became a sin\", and its establishment was accompanied by several related violations of the covenant with God. The language used by Jeroboam to introduce the worship of these idols to Israel was very similar to that used by Aaron with regard to the golden calf at Mount Sinai. The images themselves were reminiscent of Egyptian gods represented by the bull. According to 1 Kings 13, God sends a prophet from Judah to denounce Jeroboam's actions and predict the coming of King Josiah (290 years later), who would destroy those priests who participated in the idolatrous practices.\n\nNot only did the common people substitute Canaanite gods and worship for the worship of the God of Israel, polytheism and worship of foreign gods became virtually official in both the northern and southern kingdoms despite repeated warnings from the prophets of God. \n\nThe Book of Kings gives an account of the great 9th-century BC contest at Carmel between Yahweh and Baal regarding control of the rain, and hence of deity: Elijah challenges the Israelites \"If Yahweh is God, follow him, but if Baal, then follow him.\" The people remain ambivalent until the victory of Yahweh is clear, at which point they execute the 450 prophets of Baal said to be present. Although the official, polytheistic policy propelled by King Ahab's wife Jezebel was unchanged in the short term, subsequent text indicates that Ahab later turned away from idols back to Yahweh.\n\nThe prophetic books (Nevi’im) recount a continuing struggle against idolatry. For example, the biblical prophet Jeremiah complains: \"According to the number of thy cities are thy gods, O Judah.\" Jeremiah, Ezekiel and Hosea referred to Israel's worship of other gods as spiritual adultery: \"How I have been grieved by their adulterous hearts, which have turned away from me, and by their eyes, which have lusted after their idols\". This led to a broken covenant between Yahweh and Israel and \"divorce\", manifested as defeat by King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon followed by exile, from which the northern kingdom never recovered.\n\nThe psalmist described idols as being made of gold, silver, wood, and stone. They are described as being only the work of men's hands, unable to speak, see, hear, smell, eat, grasp, or feel, and powerless either to injure or to benefit. The psalmist, and also the prophet Isaiah, warn that worship of such powerless objects is not harmless, however: \"Those who worship them will be like them,\" that is, unseeing, unfeeling, unable to hear the truth that God would communicate to them.\n\nThe Bible presents Daniel and his companions as distinct, positive examples of individuals refusing to pay homage to another god, even at the price of their lives. During the time of the exile, Nebuchadnezzar erects a gold statue of himself and commands all subjects to worship it. Three Jewish officials – Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego – who had been taken to Babylon as youths along with Daniel, refuse to bow to the statue. As they face being burned alive in a furnace, they communicate their faith as well as their resolve: \"If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God we serve is able to save us from it, and he will rescue us from your hand, O king. But even if he does not, we want you to know, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the image of gold you have set up.\"\n\nAfter Antiochus IV Epiphanes recaptured Jerusalem in 167 BC, he forbade Torah and introduced worship of foreign gods into the Second Temple, and many Jews were martyred because they refused to acknowledge the claims of Seleucid deities.\n\nIn Judaism, God chooses to reveal his identity, not as an idol or image, but by his words, by his actions in history, and by his working in and through mankind. Idolatry is one of three sins (along with adultery and murder) the Mishnah says must be resisted to the point of death. By the time the Talmud was written, the acceptance or rejection of idolatry was a litmus test for Jewish identity: \"Whosoever denies idols is called a Jew\". \"Whosoever recognizes idols has denied the entire Torah; and whosoever denies idols has recognized the entire Torah.\" The Talmud discusses the subject of idolatry in many passages. An entire tractate, the Avodah Zarah (\"strange worship\") details practical guidelines for interacting with surrounding peoples so as to avoid practicing or even indirectly supporting such worship. \n\nIn his works, Philo of Alexandria defended the Jewish view of God against both the emperor-worship of the Roman world and the idolatrous worship of animals by the Egyptians.\n\nMaimonedes warned that special objects (such as the \"mezuzah\") and special prayers (such as the \"shema\") are intended to remind people of love for God and his precepts and do not in themselves guarantee good fortune (they are not to become idols).\n\nAlthough Jews are forbidden in general to mock at anything holy, it is meritorious to deride idols, This apparently originated in ancient times, as some of the several Hebrew words from the Tanakh translated as \"idol\" are pejorative and even deliberately contemptuous, such as \"elilim\", \"powerless ones\", and \"gillulim\", \"pellets of dung\".\n\nAttitudes towards the interpretation of the Commandment changed through the centuries, in that while first century rabbis in Judea objected violently to the depiction of human figures and placement of statues in Temples, third century Babylonian Jews had different views; and while no figural art from first century Roman Judea exists, the art on the Dura synagogue walls developed with no objection from the Rabbis.\n\nAlthough Jesus discussed the Ten Commandments in the Sermon on the Mount, he did not speak directly of issues regarding the meaning of the commandment against idolatry. According to Acts of the Apostles, the apostles discussed the issue of what immediate behavioral changes would be required of gentiles who became followers of Jesus Christ at the Council of Jerusalem. They decided to instruct new converts: \"You are to abstain from food sacrificed to idols, from blood, from the meat of strangled animals and from sexual immorality\". In his first letter to the Corinthians, Paul clarified this instruction to counsel converts, who were concerned about the fact that much of the meat sold in the marketplace may have been ritually slaughtered on an idol's altar and/or part of it may have been consumed as an offering to an idol. He condemned attendance at idol feasts, where participation was clearly participation with idolatry. However, Paul advised the Corinthians not to be concerned about meat being sold in the general marketplace or served to them at a meal at which they were a guest – as long as it was not advertised as having been sacrificed to an idol and with consideration not to cause offense to another person's conscience. The language used by Paul in these passages is similar to the first two commandments in regular reference to the jealousy of God, sharp warnings against idolatry and idol images, and the identification of Yahweh as creator and the one who delivered the Israelites from Egypt.\n\nIn Athens, Paul was greatly distressed to see that the city was full of idols, and in the Areopagus, he presented the God of Israel as the creator of everything, as unique and not represented by any idol. He taught: \nIn Ephesus, Paul incurred the wrath of silversmiths (who were worried about losing income from decreased sales of idols) when people responded to his preaching and turned away from idol worship. Paul taught that Christians should actively avoid participating in the worship of anything other than God. He considered it common sense that the worship of God and the worship of any other spiritual being are incompatible:\nThe New Testament also uses the term \"idol\" in reference to conceptual constructs, as in Paul's letter to the church in Colosse: \"Put to death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature: sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires and greed which is idolatry.\" This expands the scope of that which is included in idolatry to certain behaviors and priorities, which capture attention and regard at the expense of that which is owed to God. (See also Thou shalt have no other gods before me.) Paul warned the Galatians that those who live in idolatry \"will not inherit the kingdom of God\", and in the same passage associates witchcraft with idolatry. In his letter to the Philippians, he refers to those whose \"god is their stomach\". In several New Testament scriptures, including the Sermon on the Mount, the term idolatry is applied to the love of money. The apostle James rebukes those who focus on material things, using language similar to that of Old Testament prophets: \"When you ask [in prayer], you do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, that you may spend what you get on your pleasures. You adulterous people, don't you know that friendship with the world is hatred toward God? Anyone who chooses to be a friend of the world becomes an enemy of God\".\nPaul commended the church in Thessalonica saying, \"Your faith in God has become known everywhere … They tell how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead—Jesus, who rescues us from the coming wrath.\" Paul identifies the worship of created things (rather than the Creator) as the cause of the disintegration of sexual and social morality in his letter to the Romans. The apostle Peter and the Book of Revelation also refer to the connection between the worship of other gods and sexual sins, whether metaphorically or literally.\n\nThe apostle John wrote simply, \"Dear children, keep yourselves from idols\".\n\nBecause God's identity and transcendent character are described in Scripture as unique, the teaching of the Catholic Church proscribes superstition as well as irreligion and explains the commandment is broken by having images to which divine power is ascribed as well as in divinizing anything that is not God. \"Man commits idolatry whenever he honors and reveres a creature in place of God, whether this be gods or demons … power, pleasure, race, ancestors, the state, money, etc\". The Catholic Church teaches that idolatry extends beyond the worship of images of other gods. \"Idolatry rejects the unique Lordship of God; it is therefore incompatible with communion with God\". The Catechism commends those who refuse even to simulate such worship in a cultural context and states that \"the duty to offer God authentic worship concerns man both as an individual and as a social being.\"\n\nThe \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" notes that this commandment is recalled many times throughout the Bible and quotes passages describing temporal consequences for those who place trust elsewhere than in God:\nIn his exposition of Psalm 96, Augustine of Hippo agreed with the psalmist's description of inanimate idols, and he recalled Paul's words to the Corinthians that sacrifices to such are offered to demons. Rather than alternate deities condemned by monotheism, these demons are portrayed by Augustine as malevolent beings seeking not to rule as much as to seduce people into sharing eternal punishment, much as a twisted criminal might implicate an innocent person to feed his own malevolence.\n\nAnthony of Padua, seeking to reform the inordinate desire for money he observed in some priests, compared to idols those priests who bought and sold offices and abandoned their flocks, using the language of the psalmist and Isaiah to describe them as having eyes but not seeing, having feet but not walking.\n\nJohn Calvin, a prolific and influential Reformation scholar, took a straightforward view of idolatry, patterned after the simplicity of the faith of the early apostles:\nJohn Wesley, preached on the text of the Apostle John, “Dear children, keep yourselves from idols.\" He thought that John was not referring to idols of the religions around Israel, since through the Babylonian Captivity, a deep abhorrence of such was in the Jewish people and would have been understood by converts. By idols, Wesley interpreted this verse to mean any thing or priority to which one's heart is given rather than to God. He notes that the Apostle John often encouraged love among Christians and realized that it must first be founded on love of God, which is only possible by being separate from the worship of idols: \nMartin Luther taught that whatever a person places their trust or priorities in, other than God, can become an idol. Rather than scorn the Israelites for falling into the worship of idols, Luther commented that people are spiritual beings, who know there is a divine authority and easily fall into idolatry because of our fallen nature. Knowing truth from idolatry, he explained, depends on the Bible, for without paying attention to the Word of God, people make up God's characteristics to believe that God is in agreement \"with such works and worshippings as your devotion and good intention make choice of.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39155768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39155768", "title": "Unida Church", "text": "Unida Church\n\nThe United Evangelical Church of Christ () ; commonly the Unida Church, Unida Christian Church or Unida Evangelical Church) is an evangelical Protestant denomination in the Philippines founded in 1932.\n\nThe Church formed from the merger of six Filipino evangelical groups of Presbyterian and Methodist background, who met in Manila through the invitation of Don Toribio Teodoro, a layman and industrialist who was a member of the \"Iglesia Evangelica de los Cristianos Filipinos\" (Evangelical Church of the Filipino Christians). A church union was declared on 3 January 1932 at the Manila Grand Opera House.\n\nIn May 2012, Unida Church celebrated its 80th founding anniversary at the Cuneta Astrodome.\n\nThe denomination has since grown to 25,000 members in some 82 congregations and 60 mission churches, with churches concentrated in Metro Manila, Southern Tagalog, Bulacan, and the Bicolandia; several congregations in the Northern Philippines, Visayas and Mindanao; and overseas congregations in Canada and Qatar.\n\nThe church is a member of the World Communion of Reformed Churches. The Temple and Main Office of the UNIDA Church, known as the Unida Christian Center, is located at Silang, Cavite, Philippines.\n\n"}
{"id": "24201943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24201943", "title": "Universal White Brotherhood", "text": "Universal White Brotherhood\n\nThe Universal White Brotherhood is a New Age-oriented new religious movement founded in Bulgaria in the early 20th century by Peter Deunov and established in France in 1937 by Omraam Mikhaël Aïvanhov (1900–1986), one of his followers. Their teachings are also known as \" Dunovism\", after the founder. The group proposes a Christian esoterism characterized by a number of practices, including prayer, meditation, breathing exercises, yoga of nutrition and paneurhythmy.\n\nA person can be both member of the group and of another religion.\n\nIn France, the group achieved notability in the media in 1971. It has two centers located in Sèvres and Fréjus and 2,000 followers in France, and is present in many countries, including Canada, Switzerland and Belgium. The 1995 and 1999 reports established by the Parliamentary Commission on Cults in France, as well as the 1997 reports issued by the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission in Belgium listed the group as a cult.\n\nThe main criticisms by anti-cult associations are the alleged harmful effects of the doctrine on the psyche of some followers, the diet that can lead to nutritional deficiencies, and the authoritarian nature of education.\n\n“Universal” refers to humans’ ability to understand universal concepts about life. It speaks to the idea that people can expand their consciousness with these concepts that extend to more than just one person or group.\n\n“White” does not refer to a person's race, rather, it is, “the highest spiritual symbol, which is the synthesis of all colors, being the manifestations of the soul’s virtues.\" “Brotherhood” is meant to indicate that the Universal White Brotherhood’s teachings are for every human no matter what community, religion, or group they belong to. The Universal White Brotherhood believes that their teachings are for everyone so that they can expand their consciousness and embrace a virtuous spirituality.\n\nThe Universal White Brotherhood believes in centering oneself around the sun, which contributes to their practice of Surya Yoga. They believe that meditating at sunrise offers a host of physical and spiritual benefits. According to the movement, this practice has value given that the Earth and therefore human beings revolve around the sun.\n\nThe Universal White Brotherhood believes that universal brotherhood is “the only solution to the problems of humanity.” This brotherhood is described as “human beings work[ing] together no longer exclusively for themselves, but for the whole world.” This stems from the belief that all people are children of a universal Creator.\n\nThe Universal White Brotherhood teaches “that all human beings possess two natures, a human nature and a divine nature.” The human nature “is composed of the physical and etheric body … the astral body … [and] the mental body,” and the divine body “consists of the Causal body … or divine wisdom … the Budhic body [which] is formed of all our purest, most noble feelings … [and] the Atmic body [or] the higher will.” The UWB believes that humans should identify with their divine nature.\n\nThis is the belief that all human beings are naturally creative, but that art ought to be inspired by the divine rather than by the human. Within UWB thought, humans are considered to be works of art, and perfecting oneself is seen act of creativity.\n\nThe UWB teaches that “spiritual work is a matter of developing the divine part of yourself which in ordinary life is bullied and smothered by all kinds of occupations and worries...Learn to establish order and harmony in yourself, allow your divine nature to blossom in the light and love.” This is accomplished by “bring[ing] heaven into [one’s] physical body,” for example by means of eating, breathing exercises, and prayer.\n\nSix of the major methods used by the Universal White Brotherhood to practice and reinforce their beliefs include: meditation, music and singing, eating in silence, respiration, spiritual gymnastics, and paneurhythmy. While each of these are different, they all possess the element of meditation and reflection that allow the practitioner to embrace their environment, connect with their community, and further understand their spiritual being.\n\nThe Master calls meditation “Surya Yoga” or “Yoga of the Sun” and it is a method that all disciples are encouraged to practice because it is at the heart of the teachings. Meditation is practiced between the Spring and Autumn equinoxes at sunrise. Sunrise is important because it is a time of renewal when the sun’s rays help to transform and renew meditators. In meditation, the practitioner concentrates their thoughts and forces on the sun to reinforce their connection with their spirit. Just as the sun is the center of the solar system, through meditation practitioners connect with their spirit, the center of their being. Meditation allows paths of communication to be established through bridges between people’s higher and lower natures.\n\nThere is also meditation with music and laser meditation. Meditation with music is when brotherhood centers hold collective meditations that start with 10–15 minutes of inspirational music. This music is thought to help practitioners relax and to stimulate the imagination leading to an enrichment of spiritual life and good will. Laser meditation is when everyone concentrates on a single image during intense and silent meditation. People are united at this time and even vibrate on the same wavelength.\n\nMeetings begin with the singing of three sacred songs that were composed by Peter Deunov. Master Omraam says that music is a way to harmonize one's being with the rest of the community. It helps to establish unity between people and to purify the atmosphere to “disintegrate the darkness”. Through song, people are able to transform themselves. While singing, people should concentrate on what they need or want, like health or intelligence, and in the future they might find that they can find these things within themselves.\n\nPractitioners eat in silence so they are able to meditate on how their food is grown in nature and by the Creator. By avoiding conversation and focusing on the food, people are able to love their food so that they are able to receive all of its treasures. The idea is that if you love the food you are eating, you will gain more from the experience.\n\nThe Brotherhood uses nostril breathing exercises that are often found in Hatha Yoga tradition. Breathing is considered a form of nutrition and to fully take in these nutritions, people must hold the air in their lungs. Through respiration, people also draw in forces of light and peace from the world. These methods are used to develop “inner qualities, strengthen the will, calm the nervous system and vitalize the body.\"\n\nThere are six exercise that when performed form an “inner request”. The exercises take the shape of gentle and flowing movements and by concentrating on specific movements, people are able to calm their nervous system and create inner harmony. These exercises can also be used to ask for spiritual blessings and to develop individual qualities of balance, vitality, health, and purity. These gymnastics allow people to create balance between themselves and nature that ultimately results in better health.\n\nPaneurhythmy refers to a circle dance, which was created by Peter Deunov and he referred to it as “the supreme cosmic rhythm”. Through this dance people are able to harmonize with the rhythms of the universe. Omraam said, “dancing the paneurhythmy enables you to learn to adapt your thoughts, your sentiments and your actions to the most harmonious rhythms of nature.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13140273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13140273", "title": "Universel Murad Hassil", "text": "Universel Murad Hassil\n\nThe Universel Murad Hassil is one of the three international Universal Sufi Temples and is located in Katwijk aan Zee in the Netherlands.\n\nIn 1969, a temple designed by the Dutch architect S.J. of Embden was built on the place where in 1922, during the summer school, Inayat Khan reported having a 'spiritual experience' and proclaimed the place holy. \n\nEvery year, the 'Sufi summer school' takes place in this temple, and many Universal Sufis from around the world visit the temple each summer.\n\nThe Universal Worship Service, brotherhood days and other meetings take place in the temple as well as several traditional music concerts.\n\nThe building is a simple square in basis and the cupola is gold. The cupola has a typically oriental form.\n\n"}
{"id": "18530147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18530147", "title": "Wild International", "text": "Wild International\n\n\"Wild International\" is the first track and single from One Day as a Lion's self-titled five track EP. This track was first revealed on July 16, 2008. It was made available to stream on the band's myspace page. On the same day the song was premiered by the influential L.A. radio station KROQ-FM and on Australian radio station Triple J. Thus far, it peaked at #20 on the Billboard Hot Modern Tracks, and #6 in Norway.\n\nWhen Zack de la Rocha was asked about the song, he said,\n\nWhen told the song seemed anti-religious, he said,\n"}
{"id": "8365871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8365871", "title": "Wilhelm Uhde", "text": "Wilhelm Uhde\n\nWilhelm Uhde (28 October 1874, Friedeberg, Province of Brandenburg (now Poland) – 17 August 1947, Paris) was a German art collector, dealer, author and critic, an early collector of modernist painting, and a significant figure in the career of Henri Rousseau.\n\nUhde studied law in Dresden but switched to art history, studying in Munich and Florence before moving to Paris in 1904. He purchased his first Picasso in 1905, and was one of the first collectors of the Cubist paintings of Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. He met Robert Delaunay, Sonia Terk and Henri Rousseau in 1907, and opened his art gallery in 1908, rue Notre-Dame-des-Champs (Paris) where he exhibited Georges Braque, Jean Metzinger, Sonia Delaunay, André Derain, Raoul Dufy, Auguste Herbin, Jules Pascin and Pablo Picasso. Uhde commissioned Picasso to paint his portrait (1910) and produced the first monograph on Rousseau in 1911.\nUhde and Sonia Terk married in 1908 (London), reportedly a marriage of convenience which masked his homosexuality. They divorced 1910 and Terk married Robert Delaunay.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War I, many German nationals living in France had their possessions sequestered by the French state. As a result, Uhde's collection (including works by Georges Braque, Raoul Dufy, Juan Gris, Auguste Herbin, Marie Laurencin, Fernand Léger, Jean Metzinger, Pablo Picasso, Jean Puy and Henri Rousseau) was confiscated in 1914 and sold by the government in a series of auctions at the Hôtel Drouot in 1921.\n\nFrom 1919-1920, Uhde worked with Helmut Kolle and lived with him in Chantilly, France. Uhde became active as a pacifist in Weimar Germany, but returned to France in 1924, moving back to Chantilly in 1927. A Jew, he spent the Second World War in hiding in southern France, at one point helped by the art critic and resistance leader Jean Cassou.\n\nUhde is also known as the principal organiser of the first Naive Art exhibition, which took place in Paris in 1928. The participants were Henri Rousseau, André Bauchant, Camille Bombois, Séraphine Louis and Louis Vivin, known collectively as the Sacred Heart painters. Séraphine Louis had been Uhde's housecleaner, whose work he had discovered and sponsored from 1912 to 1930.\n\n\nA significant part of Uhde's life story is told in the 2008 French film \"Séraphine\" by director Martin Provost, focusing on the encounter and subsequent role of Séraphine Louis in his life and he in hers. The film won seven César Awards, including Best Film.\n"}
{"id": "32901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32901", "title": "Woody Allen", "text": "Woody Allen\n\nHeywood \"Woody\" Allen (born Allan Stewart Konigsberg; December 1, 1935) is an American director, writer, actor, and comedian whose career spans more than six decades. He began his career as a comedy writer in the 1950s, writing jokes and scripts for television and publishing several books of short humor pieces. In the early 1960s, Allen began performing as a stand-up comedian, emphasizing monologues rather than traditional jokes. As a comedian, he developed the persona of an insecure, intellectual, fretful nebbish, which he maintains is quite different from his real-life personality. In 2004, Comedy Central ranked Allen fourth on a list of the 100 greatest stand-up comedians, while a UK survey ranked Allen as the third-greatest comedian.\n\nBy the mid-1960s, Allen was writing and directing films, first specializing in slapstick comedies before moving into dramatic material influenced by European art cinema during the 1970s, and alternating between comedies and dramas to the present. He is often identified as part of the New Hollywood wave of filmmakers of the mid-1960s to late 1970s. Allen often stars in his films, typically in the persona he developed as a standup. Some of the best-known of his over 50 films are \"Annie Hall\" (1977), \"Manhattan\" (1979), \"Hannah and Her Sisters\" (1986), and \"Crimes and Misdemeanors\" (1989). In 2007 he said \"Stardust Memories\" (1980), \"The Purple Rose of Cairo\" (1985), and \"Match Point\" (2005) were his best films. Critic Roger Ebert described Allen as \"a treasure of the cinema\".\n\nAllen has received many accolades and honors throughout his career. He has won four Academy Awards: three for Best Original Screenplay and one for Best Director. He also garnered nine British Academy Film Awards. His screenplay for \"Annie Hall\" was named the funniest screenplay by the Writers Guild of America in its list of the \"101 Funniest Screenplays\". In 2011, PBS televised the film biography \"Woody Allen: A Documentary\" on the \"American Masters\" TV series.\n\nAllen was born Allan Stewart Konigsberg in the Brooklyn borough of New York City, New York. He and his sister, Letty (b. 1943), were raised in Midwood, Brooklyn. He is the son of Nettie (née Cherry; November 8, 1906 – January 27, 2002), a bookkeeper at her family's delicatessen, and Martin Konigsberg (December 25, 1900 – January 8, 2001), a jewelry engraver and waiter. His family was Jewish, and his grandparents immigrated to the US from Russia and Austria and spoke Yiddish, Hebrew, and German. Both of Allen's parents were born and raised on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.\n\nHis childhood was not particularly happy; his parents did not get along, and he had a rocky relationship with his stern, temperamental mother. Allen spoke German quite a bit in his early years. He would later joke that when he was young he was often sent to inter-faith summer camps. While attending Hebrew school for eight years, he went to Public School 99 (now the Isaac Asimov School for Science and Literature) and to Midwood High School, where he graduated in 1953. Unlike his comic persona, he was more interested in baseball than school and his strong arms ensured he was first to be picked for a team. He impressed students with his extraordinary talent with cards and magic tricks.\n\nFor pay, he wrote jokes (or \"gags\") for agent David O. Alber, who sold them to newspaper columnists. At the age of 17, he legally changed his name to Heywood Allen and later began to call himself Woody Allen. According to Allen, his first published joke read: \"Woody Allen says he ate at a restaurant that had O.P.S. prices—over people's salaries.\" He was earning more than both his parents combined. After high school, he attended New York University, studying communication and film in 1953, before dropping out after failing the course \"Motion Picture Production\". He studied film at City College of New York in 1954 but left before the end of the first semester. He taught himself rather than in the classroom. He taught at The New School and studied with writing teacher Lajos Egri.\n\nAllen began writing short jokes when he was 15, and the following year began sending them to various Broadway writers to see if they'd be interested in buying any. He also began going by the name \"Woody Allen\". One of those writers was Abe Burrows, coauthor of \"Guys and Dolls\", who wrote, \"Wow! His stuff was dazzling.\" Burrows then wrote Allen letters of introduction to Sid Caesar, Phil Silvers, and Peter Lind Hayes, who immediately sent Allen a check for just the jokes Burrows included as samples.\n\nAs a result of the jokes Allen mailed to various writers, he was invited, then age 19, to join the NBC Writer's Development Program in 1955, followed by a job on \"The NBC Comedy Hour\" in Los Angeles. He was later hired as a full-time writer for humorist Herb Shriner, initially earning $25 a week. He began writing scripts for \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", \"The Tonight Show\", specials for Sid Caesar post-\"Caesar's Hour\" (1954–1957), and other television shows. By the time he was working for Caesar, he was earning $1,500 a week; with Caesar, he worked alongside Danny Simon, whom Allen credits for helping form his writing style. In 1962 alone he estimated that he wrote twenty thousand jokes for various comics. Allen also wrote for the \"Candid Camera\" television show, and appeared in some episodes.\n\nHe wrote jokes for the Buddy Hackett sitcom \"Stanley\" and \"The Pat Boone Chevy Showroom\". And in 1958 he co-wrote a few Sid Caesar specials with Larry Gelbart. After writing for many of television's leading comedians and comedy shows, Allen was gaining the reputation for being a \"genius\", says composer Mary Rodgers. When given an assignment for a show he would leave and come back the next day with \"reams of paper\", according to producer Max Liebman. Similarly, after writing for Bob Hope, Hope called him \"half a genius\".\n\nHis daily writing routine could go as long as fifteen hours, and he could focus and write anywhere necessary. Dick Cavett was amazed at Allen's capacity to write: \"He can go to a typewriter after breakfast and sit there until the sun sets and his head is pounding, interrupting work only for coffee and a brief walk, and then spend the whole evening working.\" When Allen wrote for other comedians, they would use eight out of ten of his jokes. When he began performing as a stand-up, he was much more selective, typically using only one out of ten jokes. He estimated that to prepare for a 30-minute show, he spent six months of intensive writing. He enjoyed writing, however, despite the work: \"Nothing makes me happier than to tear open a ream of paper. And I can't wait to fill it! I love to do it.\"\n\nAllen started writing short stories and cartoon captions for magazines such as \"The New Yorker\"; he was inspired by the tradition of \"New Yorker\" humorists S. J. Perelman, George S. Kaufman, Robert Benchley, and Max Shulman, whose material he modernized. His collections of short pieces includes \"Getting Even\", \"Without Feathers\", \"Side Effects\", and \"Mere Anarchy\". His early comic fiction was influenced by the zany, pun-ridden humor of S.J. Perelman. In 2010, Allen released audio versions of his books in which he read 73 selections. He was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Album.\n\nFrom 1960 to 1969, Allen performed as a stand-up comedian to supplement his comedy writing. His contemporaries during those years included Lenny Bruce, Shelley Berman, the team of Mike Nichols and Elaine May, and Mort Sahl, his personal favorite. Comedy historian Gerald Nachman notes that Allen, while not the first to do stand-up, would eventually have greater impact than all the others in the 1960s, and would redefine the meaning of stand-up comedy: \"He helped turn it into biting, brutally honest satirical commentary on the cultural and psychological tenor of the times.\"\n\nAfter Allen was taken under the wing of his new manager, Jack Rollins, who had recently discovered Nichols and May, Rollins suggested he perform his written jokes as a stand-up. Allen was resistant at first, but after seeing Mort Sahl on stage, he felt safer to give it a try: \"I'd never had the nerve to talk about it before. Then Mort Sahl came along with a whole new style of humor, opening up vistas for people like me.\" Allen made his professional stage debut at the Blue Angel nightclub in Manhattan in October 1960, where comedian Shelley Berman introduced him as a young television writer who would perform his own material.\n\nHis early stand-up shows with his different style of humor were not always well received or understood by his audiences. Unlike other comedians, Allen spoke to his audiences in a gentle and conversational style, often appearing to be searching for words, although his style was well rehearsed. He acted \"normal\", dressed casually, and made no attempt to project a stage \"personality\". And he did not improvise: \"I put very little premium on improvisation,\" he told Studs Terkel. His jokes were created from life experiences, and typically presented with a dead serious demeanor which made them funnier: \"I don't think my family liked me. They put a live teddy bear in my crib.\"\n\nThe subjects of his jokes were rarely topical, political or socially relevant. Unlike Bruce and Sahl, he did not discuss current events such as civil rights, women's rights, the Cold War, or Vietnam. And although he was described as a \"classic nebbish\", he did not tell Jewish jokes. Comedy screenwriter Larry Gelbart compared Allen's style to Elaine May: \"He just styled himself completely after her,\" he said. Like Nichols and May, he often made fun of intellectuals.\n\nTelevision talk show host Dick Cavett, who was among the minority who quickly appreciated Allen's unique style, recalls seeing the audience at the Blue Angel mostly ignore Allen's monologue: \"I recognized immediately that there was no young comedian in the country in the same class with him for sheer brilliance of jokes, and I resented the fact that the audience was too dumb to realize what they were getting.\" It was his subdued stage presence, while initially unappreciated, that eventually became one of Allen's strongest traits, explains Nachman: \"The utter absence of showbiz veneer and shtick was the best shtick any comedian had ever devised. This uneasy onstage naturalness became a trademark.\" When he was finally noticed by the media, writers like \"New York Times\" Arthur Gelb would describe Allen's nebbish quality as being \"Chaplinesque\" and \"refreshing\".\n\nAllen developed an anxious, nervous, and intellectual persona for his stand-up act, a successful move that secured regular gigs for him in nightclubs and on television. Allen brought innovation to the comedy monologue genre and his stand-up comedy would be considered influential. Allen first appeared on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" on November 1, 1963 and over nine years his guest appearances included seventeen in the host's chair. He subsequently released three LP albums of live nightclub recordings: the self-titled \"Woody Allen\" (1964), \"Volume 2\" (1965), and \"The Third Woody Allen Album\" (1968) recorded at a fund-raiser for Senator Eugene McCarthy's presidential run.\n\nIn 1965, Allen had his own TV special in Great Britain called \"The Woody Allen Show.\" In 1967 he hosted an episode of \"The Kraft Music Hall\" where he would intersperse humor with interviews of famous people, including conservative writer William F. Buckley. In 1969 he hosted his first American special for CBS television which included a humorous spot with The Rev. Billy Graham. He also performed stand-up comedy on other series including \"The Andy Williams Show\" and \"The Perry Como Show\" where he would interact with other guests and occasionally sing. In 1971 Allen hosted one of his final \"Tonight Shows\", which included as guests Bob Hope and James Coco.\n\nFor its March 21, 1969, issue, \"Life\" put Allen on its cover.\n\nIn 1966, Allen wrote the play \"Don't Drink the Water\". The play starred Lou Jacobi, Kay Medford, Anita Gillette and Allen's future movie co-star Tony Roberts. A film adaptation of the play, directed by Howard Morris, was released in 1969, starring Jackie Gleason. Because he was not particularly happy with the 1969 film version of his play, in 1994, Allen directed and starred in a second version for television, with Michael J. Fox and Mayim Bialik.\n\nThe next play Allen wrote for Broadway was \"Play It Again, Sam\", in which he also starred. The play opened on February 12, 1969, and ran for 453 performances. It featured Diane Keaton and Roberts. The play was significant to Keaton's budding career, and she has stated she was in \"awe\" of Allen even before auditioning for her role, which was the first time she met him. During an interview in 2013, Keaton stated that she \"fell in love with him right away,\" adding, \"I wanted to be his girlfriend so I did something about it.\" After co-starring alongside Allen in the subsequent film version of \"Play It Again, Sam\", she would later co-star in \"Sleeper\", \"Love and Death\", \"Interiors\", \"Manhattan\" and \"Annie Hall\". \"He showed me the ropes and I followed his lead. He is the most disciplined person I know. He works very hard,\" Keaton has stated.\n\nIn 1981, his play \"The Floating Light Bulb\" premiered on Broadway and ran for 65 performances. While receiving mixed reviews, it gave an autobiographical insight into Allen's childhood, specifically his fascination with magic tricks. He has written several one-act plays, including \"Riverside Drive\" and \"Old Saybrook\" exploring well-known Allen themes.\n\nOn October 20, 2011, Allen's one-act play \"Honeymoon Motel\" opened as part of a larger piece entitled \"Relatively Speaking\" on Broadway, with two other one-act plays, one by Ethan Coen and one by Elaine May.\n\nHis first movie was the Charles K. Feldman production \"What's New Pussycat?\" in 1965, for which he wrote the screenplay. He was disappointed with the final product, which inspired him to direct every film that he would later write. Allen's first directorial effort was \"What's Up, Tiger Lily?\" (1966, co-written with Mickey Rose), in which an existing Japanese spy movie—\"\" (1965), \"International Secret Police: Key of Keys\"—was redubbed in English by Allen and friends with fresh new, comic dialogue. In 1967, Allen played Jimmy Bond in the 007 spoof \"Casino Royale\".\n\nAllen directed, starred in, and co-wrote (with Mickey Rose) \"Take the Money and Run\" in 1969, which received positive reviews. He later signed a deal with United Artists to produce several films. Those films eventually became \"Bananas\" (1971, co-written with Rose), \"Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex*\" (1972), \"Sleeper\" (1973), and \"Love and Death\" (1975). \"Sleeper\" was the first of four screenplays co-written by Allen and Marshall Brickman.\n\nIn 1972, Allen wrote and starred in the film version of \"Play It Again, Sam\", directed by Herbert Ross and co-starring Diane Keaton. In 1976, he starred as cashier Howard Prince, in \"The Front,\" directed by Martin Ritt. \"The Front\" was a humorous and poignant account of Hollywood blacklisting during the 1950s; Ritt, screenwriter Walter Bernstein, and three of Allen's cast-mates, Samuel \"Zero\" Mostel, Herschel Bernardi, and Lloyd Gough, had themselves been blacklisted.\n\nThen came two of Allen's most popular films. \"Annie Hall\" won four Academy Awards in 1977, including Best Picture, Best Actress in a Leading Role for Diane Keaton, Best Original Screenplay and Best Director for Woody Allen. \"Annie Hall\" set the standard for modern romantic comedy and ignited a fashion trend with the clothes worn by Diane Keaton in the film. In an interview with journalist Katie Couric, Keaton does not deny that Allen wrote the part for her and about her. The film is ranked at No. 35 on the \"American Film Institute\" \"100 Best Movies\" and at No. 4 on the AFI list of \"100 Best Comedies.\"\n\n\"Manhattan\" (1979), is a black-and-white film often viewed as an homage to New York City. As in many Allen films, the main protagonists are upper-middle class writers and academics. The lovehate opinion of cerebral persons found in \"Manhattan\" is characteristic of many of Allen's movies, including \"Crimes and Misdemeanors\" and \"Annie Hall.\" \"Manhattan\" focuses on the complicated relationship between middle-aged Isaac Davis (Allen) with 17-year-old Tracy (Mariel Hemingway), and co-stars Diane Keaton.\n\nKeaton, who made eight movies with Allen during her career, tries to explain why his films are unique:\nAllen's 1980s films, even the comedies, have somber and philosophical undertones, with their influences being the works of European directors, specifically Ingmar Bergman and Federico Fellini. \"Stardust Memories\" was based on \"8½\", which it parodies, and \"Wild Strawberries\". \"A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy\" was adapted from \"Smiles of a Summer Night\". In \"Hannah and Her Sisters\", part of the film's structure and background is borrowed from \"Fanny and Alexander\". \"Amarcord\" inspired \"Radio Days\". \"September\" resembles \"Autumn Sonata\". Allen uses many elements from \"Wild Strawberries\". In \"Crimes and Misdemeanors\", Allen references a scene from \"Wild Strawberries\".\n\n\"Stardust Memories\" (1980) features Sandy Bates, a successful filmmaker played by Allen, who expresses resentment and scorn for his fans. Overcome by the recent death of a friend from illness, the character states, \"I don't want to make funny movies any more\" and a running gag has various people (including visiting space aliens) telling Bates that they appreciate his films, \"especially the early, funny ones.\" Allen believes this to be one of his best films.\n\n\"A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy\" (1982) was the first movie Allen made starring Mia Farrow, who stepped into Diane Keaton's role when Keaton was shooting \"Reds\". He next produced a vividly idiosyncratic tragi-comical parody of documentary, \"Zelig\", in which he starred as a Leonard Zelig, man who has the ability to transform his appearance to that of the people who surround him.\n\nAllen has combined tragic and comic elements in such films as \"Hannah and Her Sisters\" (1986) and \"Crimes and Misdemeanors\" (1989), in which he tells two stories that connect at the end. He also made three films about show business: \"Broadway Danny Rose\", in which he plays a New York show business agent, \"The Purple Rose of Cairo\", a movie that shows the importance of the cinema during the Depression through the character of the naive Cecilia, and \"Radio Days\", a film about his childhood in Brooklyn and the importance of the radio. The film co-starred Farrow in a part Allen wrote specifically for her. \"The Purple Rose of Cairo\" was named by \"Time\" as one of the 100 best films of all time. Allen called it one of his three best films with \"Stardust Memories\" and \"Match Point\" By \"best\" he means they came closest to his vision. In 1989, Allen and directors Francis Ford Coppola and Martin Scorsese made \"New York Stories\", an anthology film about New Yorkers. Allen's short, \"Oedipus Wrecks\", is about a neurotic lawyer and his critical mother. Film critic Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" praised Allen's segment of the anthology.\n\nHis 1991 film \"Shadows and Fog\" is a black-and-white homage to the German expressionists and features the music of Kurt Weill. Allen then made his critically acclaimed comedy-drama \"Husbands and Wives\" (1992), which received two Oscar nominations: Best Supporting Actress for Judy Davis and Best Original Screenplay for Allen. His film \"Manhattan Murder Mystery\" (1993) combined suspense with dark comedy and marked the return of Diane Keaton, Alan Alda and Anjelica Huston.\n\nHe returned to lighter movies like \"Bullets over Broadway\" (1994), which earned an Academy Award nomination for Best Director, followed by a musical, \"Everyone Says I Love You\" (1996). The singing and dancing scenes in \"Everyone Says I Love You\" are similar to musicals starring Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. The comedy \"Mighty Aphrodite\" (1995), in which Greek drama plays a large role, won an Academy Award for Mira Sorvino. Allen's 1999 jazz-based comedy-drama \"Sweet and Lowdown\" was nominated for two Academy Awards for Sean Penn (Best Actor) and Samantha Morton (Best Supporting Actress). In contrast to these lighter movies, Allen veered into darker satire toward the end of the decade with \"Deconstructing Harry\" (1997) and \"Celebrity\" (1998).\n\nDuring this decade, Allen also starred in the television film \"The Sunshine Boys\" (1995), based on the Neil Simon play of the same name.\n\nAllen made one sitcom \"appearance\" via telephone on the show \"Just Shoot Me!\" in a 1997 episode, \"My Dinner with Woody\", which paid tribute to several of his films. Allen provided the voice of Z in DreamWorks' first animated film, \"Antz\" (1998), which featured many actors he had worked with; Allen's character was similar to his earlier neurotic roles.\n\n\"Small Time Crooks\" (2000) was Allen's first film with the DreamWorks studio and represented a change in direction: Allen began giving more interviews and made an attempt to return to his slapstick roots. The film is similar to the 1942 film \"Larceny, Inc.\" (from a play by S.J. Perelman). Allen never commented on whether this was deliberate or if his film was in any way inspired by it. \"Small Time Crooks\" was a relative financial success, grossing over $17 million domestically but Allen's next four films foundered at the box office, including Allen's most costly film, \"The Curse of the Jade Scorpion\" (with a budget of $26 million). \"Hollywood Ending\", \"Anything Else\", and \"Melinda and Melinda\" were given \"rotten\" ratings from film-review website Rotten Tomatoes and each earned less than $4 million domestically. Some critics claimed that Allen's early 2000s films were subpar and expressed concern that Allen's best years were behind him. Others were less harsh; reviewing the little-liked \"Melinda and Melinda\", Roger Ebert wrote, \"I cannot escape the suspicion that if Woody had never made a previous film, if each new one was Woody's Sundance debut, it would get a better reception. His reputation is not a dead shark but an albatross, which with admirable economy Allen has arranged for the critics to carry around their own necks.\"\n\n\"Match Point\" (2005) was one of Allen's most successful films of the decade, garnering positive reviews. Set in London, it starred Jonathan Rhys Meyers and Scarlett Johansson. It is markedly darker than Allen's first four films with DreamWorks SKG. In \"Match Point\", Allen shifted focus from the intellectual upper class of New York to the moneyed upper class of London. The film earned more than $23 million domestically (more than any of his films in nearly 20 years) and over $62 million in international box office sales. \"Match Point\" earned Allen his first Academy Award nomination since 1998, for Best Writing – Original Screenplay, with directing and writing nominations at the Golden Globes, his first Globe nominations since 1987. In a 2006 interview with \"Premiere Magazine\", Allen stated this was the best film he has ever made.\n\nAllen reached an agreement to film \"Vicky Cristina Barcelona\" in Avilés, Barcelona, and Oviedo, Spain, where shooting started on July 9, 2007. The movie starred Scarlett Johansson, Javier Bardem, Rebecca Hall and Penélope Cruz. \"Vicky Cristina Barcelona\" won Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy at the Golden Globe awards. Penélope Cruz received the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress.\n\n\"In the United States things have changed a lot, and it's hard to make good small films now,\" Allen said in a 2004 interview. \"The avaricious studios couldn't care less about good films—if they get a good film they're twice as happy but money-making films are their goal. They only want these $100 million pictures that make $500 million.\"\n\nIn April 2008, he began filming \"Whatever Works\", a film focused more toward older audiences, starring Larry David, Patricia Clarkson, and Evan Rachel Wood. Released in 2009 and described as a dark comedy, it follows the story of a botched suicide attempt turned messy love triangle. \"Whatever Works\" was written by Allen in the 1970s, and the character played by David was written for Zero Mostel, who died the year \"Annie Hall\" came out.\n\nAllen was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2001.\n\n\"You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger\", filmed in London, stars Antonio Banderas, Josh Brolin, Anthony Hopkins, Anupam Kher, Freida Pinto and Naomi Watts. Filming started in July 2009. It was released theatrically in the US on September 23, 2010, following a Cannes debut in May 2010, and a screening at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 12, 2010. Allen announced that his next film would be titled \"Midnight in Paris\" starring Adrien Brody, Owen Wilson, Marion Cotillard, Rachel McAdams, Kathy Bates, Michael Sheen, Gad Elmaleh and Carla Bruni, the First Lady of France at the time of production. The film follows a young engaged couple in Paris who see their lives transformed. It debuted at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival on May 12, 2011. Allen said he wanted to \"show the city emotionally,\" during the press conference. \"I just wanted it to be the way I saw Paris – Paris through my eyes,\" he added. The film was praised by critic Stephanie Zacharek. \"Midnight in Paris\" won the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay and became his highest-grossing film, making $151 million worldwide on a $17 million budget.\n\nHis next film, \"To Rome with Love\", was a Rome-set comedy released in 2012. The film was structured in four vignettes featuring dialogue in both Italian and English. It marked Allen's return to acting since his last role in \"Scoop\".\n\n\"Blue Jasmine\" debuted in July 2013. The film is set in San Francisco and New York, and stars Alec Baldwin, Cate Blanchett, Louis C.K., Andrew Dice Clay, Sally Hawkins, and Peter Sarsgaard. Opening to critical acclaim, the film earned Allen another Academy Award nomination for Best Original Screenplay, and Blanchett went to receive the Academy Award for Best Actress. Allen co-starred with John Turturro in \"Fading Gigolo,\" written and directed by Turturro, which premiered in September 2013. In 2013, Allen shot the romantic comedy \"Magic in the Moonlight\" in Nice, France. The film, set in the 1920s on the French Riviera.\n\nFrom July through August 2014, Allen filmed the mystery drama \"Irrational Man\" in Newport, Rhode Island, with Joaquin Phoenix, Emma Stone, Parker Posey and Jamie Blackley. Allen has said that this film, as well as the next three he has planned, have the financing and full support of Sony Pictures Classics. Allen's next film, \"Café Society\", starred an ensemble cast, including Jesse Eisenberg, Kristen Stewart, and Blake Lively. Bruce Willis was set to co-star, but was replaced by Steve Carell during filming. The film is distributed by Amazon Studios, and opened the 2016 Cannes Film Festival on May 11, 2016, marking the third time Allen has opened the festival.\n\nOn January 14, 2015, it was announced Allen will write and direct a TV series of half-hour episodes for Amazon Studios, marking the first time he has developed a television show. It will be available exclusively on Amazon Prime Instant Video, and Amazon Studios has already ordered a full season. Allen said of the series, \"I don't know how I got into this. I have no ideas and I'm not sure where to begin. My guess is that Roy Price [the head of Amazon Studios] will regret this.\" At the 2015 Cannes Film Festival, Allen said, in reference to his upcoming Amazon show, \"It was a catastrophic mistake. I don't know what I'm doing. I'm floundering. I expect this to be a cosmic embarrassment.\" On September 30, 2016, Amazon Video debuted Allen's first television series production, titled \"Crisis in Six Scenes\". The series is a comedy which takes place during the 1960s. It focuses on the life of a suburban family after a surprise visitor creates chaos among them. It stars Allen alongside Elaine May and Miley Cyrus. Cyrus plays the part of a radical hippie fugitive who sells marijuana.\n\nIn September 2016, Allen started filming \"Wonder Wheel\", set in the 1950s in Coney Island, and starring Kate Winslet and Justin Timberlake. The film served as the closing night selection at the 55th New York Film Festival on October 15, 2017, and was theatrically released on December 1, 2017, as the first movie self-distributed to theaters by Amazon Studios.\n\nHis film \"A Rainy Day in New York\", starring Timothée Chalamet, Selena Gomez, Elle Fanning, Jude Law, Diego Luna and Liev Schreiber began production in New York in September 2017. However Chalamet, Gomez and Hall announced, in the light of the #MeToo movement, that they would be donating their salaries to various charities. The film has not been put on release; doubts were raised as to whether Amazon would proceed with the other three films in their deal with Allen in the light of reasserted allegations of sexual abuse made by Allen's adopted stepdaughter, Dylan Farrow. This would mean the first year for many years that Allen has not worked on a film.\n\nWhile best known for his films, Allen has enjoyed a successful career in theatre, starting as early as 1960, when he wrote sketches for the revue \"From A to Z\". His first great success was \"Don't Drink the Water\", which opened in 1968, and ran for 598 performances for almost two years on Broadway. His success continued with \"Play It Again, Sam\", which opened in 1969, starring Allen and Diane Keaton. The show played for 453 performances and was nominated for three Tony Awards, although none of the nominations were for Allen's writing or acting.\n\nIn the 1970s, Allen wrote a number of one-act plays, most notably \"God\" and \"Death\", which were published in his 1975 collection \"Without Feathers\". In 1981, Allen's play \"The Floating Light Bulb\" opened on Broadway. The play was a critical success and a commercial flop. Despite two Tony Award nominations, a Tony win for the acting of Brian Backer (who won the 1981 Theater World Award and a Drama Desk Award for his work), the play only ran for 62 performances. After a long hiatus from the stage, Allen returned to the theatre in 1995, with the one-act \"Central Park West\", an installment in an evening of theatre known as \"Death Defying Acts\" that was also made up of new work by David Mamet and Elaine May.\n\nFor the next few years, Allen had no direct involvement with the stage, yet notable productions of his work were staged. A production of \"God\" was staged at The Bank of Brazil Cultural Center in Rio de Janeiro, and theatrical adaptations of Allen's films \"Bullets Over Broadway\" and \"September\" were produced in Italy and France, respectively, without Allen's involvement. In 1997, rumors of Allen returning to the theatre to write a starring role for his wife Soon-Yi Previn turned out to be false. In 2003, Allen finally returned to the stage with \"Writer's Block\", an evening of two one-acts—\"Old Saybrook\" and \"Riverside Drive\"—that played Off-Broadway. The production marked the stage-directing debut for Allen. The production sold out the entire run. Also in 2003, reports of Allen writing the book for a musical based on \"Bullets Over Broadway\" surfaced, and it opened in New York in 2014. The musical closed on August 24, 2014, after 156 performances and 33 previews.\n\nIn 2004, Allen's first full-length play since 1981, \"A Second Hand Memory\", was directed by Allen and enjoyed an extended run Off-Broadway. In June 2007, it was announced that Allen would make two more creative debuts in the theatre, directing a work that he did not write and directing an opera—a reinterpretation of Puccini's \"Gianni Schicchi\" for the Los Angeles Opera—which debuted at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion on September 6, 2008. Commenting on his direction of the opera, Allen said, \"I have no idea what I'm doing.\" His production of the opera opened the Festival of Two Worlds in Spoleto, Italy, in June 2009.\n\nIn October 2011, Woody Allen's one-act play called \"Honeymoon Motel\" premiered as one in a series of one act plays on Broadway titled \"Relatively Speaking\". Also contributing to the plays are Elaine May and Ethan Coen with John Turturro directing. It was announced in February 2012 that Allen would adapt \"Bullets over Broadway\" into a Broadway musical. It opened on April 10, 2014 and closed on August 24, 2014.\n\n Allen is a passionate fan of jazz, featured prominently in the soundtracks to his films. He began playing the clarinet as a child and took his stage name from clarinetist Woody Herman. He has performed publicly at least since the late 1960s, notably with the Preservation Hall Jazz Band on the soundtrack of \"Sleeper\".\n\nWoody Allen and his New Orleans Jazz Band have been playing each Monday evening at the Carlyle Hotel in Manhattan for many years specializing in New Orleans jazz from the early twentieth century. He plays songs by Sidney Bechet, George Lewis, Johnny Dodds, Jimmie Noone and Louis Armstrong. The documentary film \"Wild Man Blues\" (directed by Barbara Kopple) documents a 1996 European tour by Allen and his band, as well as his relationship with Previn. The band has released two CDs: \"The Bunk Project\" (1993) and the soundtrack of \"Wild Man Blues\" (1997). In a 2011 review of a concert by Allen's jazz band, critic Kirk Silsbee of the \"Los Angeles Times\" suggested that Allen should be regarded a competent musical hobbyist with a sincere appreciation for early jazz: \"Allen's clarinet won't make anyone forget Sidney Bechet, Barney Bigard or Evan Christopher. His piping tone and strings of staccato notes can't approximate melodic or lyrical phrasing. Still his earnestness and the obvious regard he has for traditional jazz counts for something.\"\n\nAllen and his band played the Montreal International Jazz Festival on two consecutive nights in June 2008. For many years, Allen wanted to make a film about the origins of jazz in New Orleans. The film, tentatively titled \"American Blues\", would follow the vastly different careers of Louis Armstrong and Sidney Bechet. Allen stated that the film would cost between $80 and $100 million and is therefore unlikely to be made.\n\nAllen was married three times: to Harlene Rosen (m. 1956–1959), Louise Lasser, (m. 1966–1970) and Soon-Yi Previn (m. 1997–present). He had a 12-year relationship with actress Mia Farrow and relationships with Stacey Nelkin and Diane Keaton.\n\nAllen married 17-year-old Harlene Rosen when he was 20 in 1956; the marriage lasted until 1959. Rosen, whom Allen referred to in his standup act as \"the Dread Mrs. Allen\", sued him for defamation as a result of comments he made during a television appearance shortly after their divorce. In his mid-1960s standup album \"Standup Comic\", Allen said that Rosen had sued him because of a joke he made in an interview. Rosen had been sexually assaulted outside her apartment. According to Allen, the newspapers reported that she had been \"violated\". In the interview, Allen said, \"Knowing my ex-wife, it probably wasn't a moving violation.\" In an interview on \"The Dick Cavett Show\", Allen repeated his comments and said he had been sued for \"$1 million.\"\n\nAllen married Louise Lasser in 1966. They divorced in 1970. Lasser appeared in three Allen films shortly before and after the divorce—\"Take the Money and Run\", \"Bananas\", and \"Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask)\"—and later briefly appeared in \"Stardust Memories\". In 1969 Allen cast Diane Keaton in his Broadway show, \"Play It Again, Sam.\" During the run she and Allen became romantically involved. Although they broke up after a year, she continued to star in his films, including \"Sleeper\" as a futuristic poet and \"Love and Death\" as a composite character based on the novels of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. \"Annie Hall\" was very important in Allen's and Keaton's careers. It is said that the role was written for her, as Diane Keaton's birth name was Diane Hall. She then starred in \"Interiors\" as a poet, followed by \"Manhattan\". In 1987, she had a cameo as a nightclub singer in \"Radio Days\", and she was chosen to replace Mia Farrow in \"Manhattan Murder Mystery\" after Allen and Farrow began having problems with their relationship. As of 2004 Keaton and Allen remained close friends. According to the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"Manhattan\" was based on Allen's romantic relationship with actress Stacey Nelkin. Her bit part in \"Annie Hall\" ended up on the cutting room floor, and their relationship, although never publicly acknowledged by Allen, reportedly began when she was 17 and a student at New York's Stuyvesant High School.\n\nAllen and Mia Farrow met in 1979 and began a 12-year relationship in 1980; Farrow starred in 13 of Allen's films from 1982 to 1992. Throughout the relationship they lived in separate apartments on opposite sides of Central Park in Manhattan. Farrow had seven children when they met; there were three biological sons from her marriage to composer André Previn, three adopted girls (two Vietnamese and one Korean, Soon-Yi Previn), and one adopted Korean boy, Moses Farrow.\n\nIn 1984 she and Allen tried to have a biological child together; Allen agreed to this on the understanding that he need not be involved in the child's care. When the effort to get pregnant failed, Farrow adopted a baby girl, Dylan Farrow, in July 1985. Allen was not involved in the adoption, but when Dylan arrived he assumed a parental role toward her and began spending more time in Farrow's home. On December 19, 1987, Farrow gave birth to their son Satchel Farrow (later known as Ronan Farrow). In 1991 Farrow wanted to adopt another child. According to a 1993 custody hearing, Allen told her he would not object to another adoption so long as she would agree to his adoption of Dylan and Moses; that adoption was finalized in December 1991. Eric Lax, Allen's biographer, wrote in \"The New York Times\" in February 1991 that Allen was \"there before they [the children] wake up in the morning, he sees them during the day and he helps put them to bed at night\".\n\nIn 1978, Mia Farrow and André Previn adopted Soon-Yi Previn, who had been abandoned in the slums of Seoul. At the time of the adoption, her passport said that she was seven years of age; a bone scan in the U.S. determined that she was between five and seven years old. According to Previn, her first friendly interaction with Allen took place when she was injured playing soccer during her junior year of high school and Allen offered to transport her to school. After her injury, she began attending New York Knicks basketball games with Allen. They attended more games and by 1991 had become closer. In September 1991, she began her studies at Drew University in New Jersey.\n\nIn January 1992, Farrow found nude photographs of Soon-Yi Previn in Allen's home. Allen, then 57, told Farrow that he had taken the photos the day before, approximately two weeks after he first had sex with Previn. Both Farrow and Allen contacted lawyers shortly after the photographs were discovered. Previn was asked to leave summer camp because she was spending too much time taking calls from a \"Mr. Simon\", who turned out to be Allen.\n\nAllen described his relationship with Previn as a \"fling\" that developed into a more significant relationship. He described his role in their adult relationship as \"paternal\" while denying any parental or paternal role in Previn's life during her upbringing. He issued a statement on August 17, 1992, saying that he was in love with Soon-Yi. His relationship with Previn became public and \"erupted into tabloid headlines and late-night monologues in August 1992.\"\n\nAllen and Previn were married in Venice, Italy on December 23, 1997 and adopted two children, Bechet and Manzie. They live in the Carnegie Hill section of Manhattan's Upper East Side.\n\nAccording to court testimony, on August 4, 1992, Allen visited the children at Mia Farrow's home in Bridgewater, Connecticut, while she was out shopping with a friend. The following day, that friend's babysitter told her employer that she had seen Allen behaving inappropriately with Dylan. When Farrow asked Dylan about it, Dylan alleged that Allen had touched Dylan's \"private part\" while they were alone together in the attic. One woman employed to care for Farrow's children said that for about 20 minutes that afternoon she had not known where Dylan was, while a second said that, at one point, Dylan had been wearing no underwear under her dress. Farrow told Dylan's pediatrician, who informed authorities.\n\nAllen strongly denied the allegation, calling it \"an unconscionable and gruesomely damaging manipulation of innocent children for vindictive and self-serving motives\". Allen then began proceedings in New York Supreme Court for sole custody of his and Farrow's son Satchel, as well as Dylan and Moses, the two adopted children of Farrow that Allen had adopted as well. A months-long investigation by the Child Sexual Abuse Clinic of Yale–New Haven Hospital concluded in March 1993 that Dylan had not been sexually assaulted. In June 1993, the judge rejected Allen's bid for custody. He said that the Yale–New Haven team's unwillingness to testify in court, except through a deposition, together with the destruction of its notes, had rendered its report \"sanitized and, therefore, less credible\". In September of that year, the state prosecutor announced that, despite having \"probable cause,\" he would not pursue charges, in order to spare Dylan from the ordeal.\n\nWhen Allen received a Golden Globe Award for lifetime achievement in 2014, the issue returned to the forefront of media attention. On February 1, 2014, columnist Nicholas Kristof, with Dylan's permission, published an editorial in the \"New York Times\" that included excerpts from a letter Dylan had written to Kristof about her memories and feelings about the initial episode, public reaction to the issue, and Allen's award. On May 23, 2018, a blog post by Moses Farrow defended Allen against the allegations leveled against him by Mia and Dylan Farrow.\n\nIn addition to directing, writing, and acting in films, Allen has written and performed in a number of Broadway theater productions.\n\nApart from \"Wild Man Blues\", directed by Barbara Kopple, there are other documentaries featuring Woody Allen, including the 2001 cable-television documentary \"Woody Allen: a Life in Film\", directed by \"Time\" film critic Richard Schickel, which interlaces interviews of Allen with clips of his films, and \"Meetin' WA\", a short interview of Allen by French director Jean-Luc Godard. In 2011 the PBS series American Masters co-produced the documentary \"Woody Allen: a Documentary\", directed by Robert B. Weide.\n\nEric Lax authored the book \"Woody Allen: A Biography\". From 1976 to 1984, Stuart Hample wrote and drew \"Inside Woody Allen\", a comic strip based on Allen's film persona.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8249978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8249978", "title": "Yamudiki Mogudu", "text": "Yamudiki Mogudu\n\nYamudiki Mogudu (English: \"Overlord to Lord Yama\") is a 1988 Telugu language action fantasy film, directed by Ravi Raja Pinisetty, starring Chiranjeevi, Vijayashanti, Radha and Kota Srinivasa Rao. This film was dubbed into Hindi as \"Chiranjeevi\" (1991) and remade in Tamil as \"Athisaya Piravi\" with Rajinikanth. The film was recorded as an \"Industry Hit\" at the box office.\n\nKaali (Chiranjeevi) is a small town goon who helps his neighbourhood with his earnings. He is good at heart and is loved by everyone in town. He works for Kotayya (Kota Srinivasa Rao), whose rival is Gollapudi. Once, when he goes to warn Gollapudi, he meets and falls in love with Radha (Radha), Gollapudi's daughter. When they decide to marry even without Gollapudi's consent, he gets Kaali killed in an accident and Kaali goes to hell.\n\nThere, he challenges Yama (Kaikala Satyanarayana) that he was brought wrongly and catches Chitragupta (Allu Rama Lingaiah) red-handed for cheating. To correct the mistake, Yama and Chitragupta leave for Earth to find Kaali's body so he can return to Earth. Unfortunately Kaali's body has been cremated and Kaali refuses to enter another body. However, Yama and Chitragupta convince him to enter into the body of a person that is identical to him. Kaali refuses, taking heed to a warning by Vichitragupta (Velu). They then show him Balu (Chiranjeevi) in a village and tell him it is his last option.\n\nKaali learns that Balu was a soft-spoken and non-confrontational man who was often ill-treated by his family. Vijayashanti is his love interest. Balu's relatives plan to kill him on his 25th birthday as they have to hand over his property. This is when Kaali's soul is put into Balu's body and he plays black and blue with them. However, he remembers his own life once he sees Kotayya's photo in a newspaper and returns to the city. The rest of the plot is woven on how he balances the two lives and two girls, until Yama sees his determination and willingness to save all the people he loves. The film was recorded as an Industry Hit and grossed 5.6 crores at the box office.\n\n\nThe Music Was Composed By Raj-Koti and Released by Aditya Music. All Lyrics were penned by Veturi Sundararama Murthy.\n"}
