{"id": "47045520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47045520", "title": "2003 Afro-Asian Games medal table", "text": "2003 Afro-Asian Games medal table\n\nThe official medal tally of the first Afro-Asian Games held at Hyderabad, India. China bagged the largest number of gold medals, followed by the host India in second place. \n\n"}
{"id": "25053957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25053957", "title": "2010 NHRA Full Throttle Drag Racing Series season", "text": "2010 NHRA Full Throttle Drag Racing Series season\n\nThe 2010 NHRA Full Throttle Drag Racing Season ran from February 11 to November 14, 2010. A variety of new safety rules were implemented following the conclusion of the investigation of the Scott Kalitta death in 2008. The NHRA had planned on returning Top Fuel and Funny Car classes to distances; however, racing in those classes remained at distance to contain costs with the United States economy still in recession, as well as to address ongoing safety concerns.\n\nThere were 23 Top Fuel, Funny Car, and Pro Stock car events, and 17 Pro Stock Motorcycle events.\n\nWith the closure of the Memphis Motorsports Park as of 30 October 2009, the Full Throttle Series is now slated for 23 events:\nThe Virginia NHRA Nationals has also been eliminated, as Virginia Motorsports Park chose to align with rival Kenneth Feld's International Hot Rod Association instead (many tracks changed sanctioning, owing to their sportsman classes). A second race at zMax Dragway, the Four Wide Nationals, was added.\n\n\nAfter 47 years as a driver and owner, Don Prudhomme announced his retirement from the series.\n\nFunny car driver Mike Neff stepped down as driver to become co-crew chief for John Force, the other crew chief is Austin Coil.\n\nIn the first round at Arizona, Antron Brown lost a wheel and crashed into the wall. Although Brown was uninjured in the accident, the wheel struck a female spectator who was killed. Because of weather conditions, the Pro Stock event at the same meet was cancelled after one round. The eight first-round winners competed as part of second-round qualifying at the next round.\n\nJust two days after John Force won a record 15th Funny Car world championship, his crew chief, NHRA Hall of Fame member Austin Coil, resigned from John Force Racing. In his announcement, Coil stated he wanted to take at least a year off, but left the door open to a return to racing in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "34997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34997", "title": "499 BC", "text": "499 BC\n\nYear 499 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aebutius and Cicurinus (or, less frequently, year 255 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 499 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n</onlyinclude>\n"}
{"id": "85263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85263", "title": "632 BC", "text": "632 BC\n\nThe year 632 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 122 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 632 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38669282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38669282", "title": "Abbottabad Commission", "text": "Abbottabad Commission\n\nThe Abbottabad Commission was a judicial inquiry commissioned to provide reports on the circumstantial events leading up to the United States decision to take unilateral military actions in Abbottabad in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province of Pakistan, with the objective of neutralizing al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden on May 2, 2011. Constituted by the Supreme Court of Pakistan on the request of the Government of Pakistan on 21 June 2011, the commission was chaired by the Senior Justice Javaid Iqbal and other members selected by the supreme court.\n\nThe Commission critically evaluated and provided analysis on \"ascertain full facts regarding the presence of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan\" and thoroughly \"investigated circumstances and facts regarding the American operation in Abbottabad on 2 May 2011.\" The commission extensively interviewed local residents of Abbottabad, government ministers, military officials, and investigative espionage journalists.\n\nThe Commission's final report included 300 witnesses and reviewed 3,000 official documents over two years. The final report was based on public testimonies and was prepared by the Senior Justice Javid Iqbal. The reports were submitted to Prime Minister Pervez Ashraf on January 2013 and were marked as \"classified\" by the government. No details were made public despite the requests of officials. By early 2012, only a few portions were released to the media. The Abbottabad Commission Report was released by Al Jazeera on 8 July 2013.\n\nThe commission was headed by Justice Javaid Iqbal and included Senator Ashraf Kazi, Lieutenant-General (retired) Nadeem Ahmad, civil servant Nargis Sethi and former Inspector-General of Frontier Police, Abbas Khan.\n\nAfter much criticism, Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani formed the commission under Senior Justice Javed Iqbal and its members included: \n\nThe terms of reference of the commission were\n\nThe conservative party, Pakistan Muslim League (PML), criticized the Prime Minister Gillani for a failure to initiate a probe into the May US incursion in accordance with the resolution adopted during the joint secret session of parliament.<ref name=\"Express Tribune, 05/29/2011\"></ref> Despite Prime Minister Gillani addressing his concerns to PML,<ref name=\"Tex, 05/2012\"></ref> the party pushed for an independent commission to be formed. The PML persuasion was that \"it did not want the armed forces to face another fiasco like the 1971 war or the Kargil misadventure.\n\nAfter meeting with the Lieutenant-General Shuja' Pasha of the ISI, Justice minister Bux Chandio hinted that the commission would be formed after the consultation. In June 2011, Prime Minister Gillani announced to form the commission under Supreme Court's Senior Justice Javed Iqbal.\n\nThe Commission extensively interviewed 300 people and among the notable people summoned and testified to the commission were:\n\nThe 700-page report was prepared after the commission interviewed 300 witnesses and reviewed 3000 documents. The commission submitted its report to prime minister Raja Pervaiz Ashraf in January 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "26015197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26015197", "title": "Albert Leon Whiteman Memorial Prize", "text": "Albert Leon Whiteman Memorial Prize\n\nThe Albert Leon Whiteman Memorial Prize is awarded by the American Mathematical Society for notable exposition and exceptional scholarship in the history of mathematics. \n\nThe prize was established in 1998 with funds provided by Sally Whiteman in memory of her late husband Albert Leon Whiteman. Originally it was awarded every 4 years with the first prized handed out in 2001. Since 2009 the prize is awarded every 3 years and carries a prize money of $5000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2322041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2322041", "title": "Alcohol advertising", "text": "Alcohol advertising\n\nAlcohol advertising is the promotion of alcoholic beverages by alcohol producers through a variety of media. Along with tobacco advertising, alcohol advertising is one of the most highly regulated forms of marketing. Some or all forms of alcohol advertising is banned in some countries. There have been some important studies about alcohol advertising published, such as J.P. Nelson's in 2000.\n\nScientific research, health agencies and universities have, over the decades, been able to demonstrate a correlation between alcohol beverage advertising and alcohol consumption, especially among initially non-drinking youth. However, there is an equally significant body of research positing that alcohol advertising does not \"cause\" higher consumption and rather merely reflects greater public demand, with many commentators suggesting that effective alcohol campaigns only increase a producer's market share and also brand loyalty.\n\nThe intended audience of the alcohol advertising campaigns have changed over the years, with some brands being specifically targeted towards a particular demographic. Some drinks are traditionally seen as a male drink, particularly beers and whiskies, while others are drunk by females. Some brands have allegedly been specifically developed to appeal to people that would not normally drink that kind of beverage. These ads may contribute to underage consumption and binge drinking. In 2011 a study found that twenty-two percent of twelfth graders had binge drank in the past two weeks, this figure doubled for kids in college. Studies suggest that the use of alcohol before the brain fully develops can alter or negatively affect the development of the brain.\n\nOne area in which the alcohol industry has faced criticism and tightened legislation is in their alleged targeting of young people. Central to this is the development of alcopops – sweet-tasting, brightly coloured drinks with names that may appeal to a younger audience. However, numerous government and other reports have failed to support that allegation.\n\nThere have been several disputes over whether alcohol advertisements are targeting teens. There happens to be heavy amounts of alcohol advertising that appears to make drinking fun and exciting. Alcohol advertisements can be commonly seen in virtually any medium, they are especially known for sponsoring sporting events, concerts, magazines, and they are widely found on the internet. Most of the vendors’ websites require an age of 21 to enter, but there is no restriction besides simply entering a birth date. A study done by the American Journal of Public Health concluded that Boston train passengers between the ages of 11 and 18 saw an alcohol-related advertisement everyday. There have been studies similar to this, which supports the allegation that underage consumption of alcohol is in correlation with the exposure of alcohol ads. In response, many cities have recognized the effect of alcohol-related ads on adolescents and in some cities these advertisements have been banned on public transportation. It is difficult to make definite allegations regarding youth exposure to these types of advertisements but it is necessary to find ways in which these allegations may be limited.\n\nThe National Household Survey on Drug Abuse reports the rates of binge alcohol use in 2008 were 1.5 percent among 12 or 13 years old, 6.9 percent among 14 or 15 years old, 17.2 percent among 16 or 17 years old, 33.7 percent among persons aged 18 to 20. In 2009, the rates for each group of underage alcohol usage increased by a fourth.\n\nAccording to 2001 College Alcohol Study (CAS), continuous alcohol promotions and advertisements including lowering prices on certain types of alcohol on a college campus have increased the percentage of alcohol consumption of that college community. Alcohol advertising on college campuses have also shown to increase binge drinking among students. However, it is concluded that the consistency of these special promotions and ads could also be useful in reducing binge drinking and other related drinking problems on campus. (Kuo, 2000, Wechsler 2000, Greenberg 2000, Lee 2000).\n\nResearch clearly indicates that, in addition to parents and peers, alcohol advertising and marketing significantly affect youth decisions to drink. (The Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth [CAMY]).\n\n\"While many factors may influence an underage person's drinking decisions, including among other things parents, peers and the media, there is reason to believe that advertising also plays a role.\" (Federal Trade Commission, Self-Regulation in the Alcohol Industry, 1999)\n\nParents and peers substantially affect youth decisions to drink. However, research clearly indicates that alcohol advertising and marketing also have a significant effect by influencing youth and adult expectations and attitudes, and helping to create an environment that promotes underage drinking.\n\nEven though people these days must put themselves into that situation, David H. Jernigan (2005: 314) underlines how “more than fifteen percent of twelve-year-olds will be likely to create the situation where youth are more likely per capita to see the magazine than adults over twenty-one years, the legal drinking age in the United States”.\n\nThe target market for malt liquor in the United States has been among the African-American and Hispanic populations in cities. Advertisers use themes of power and sexual dominance to appeal to customers. Critics have objected to ads targeting this segment of the population, which suffers disproportionately high rates of alcohol-related illness and poor access to medical care.\n\nPeter Anderson and his colleagues performed longitudinal studies and concluded that “alcohol advertising and promotion increases the likelihood that adolescents will start to use alcohol, and to drink more if they are already using alcohol.” Elizabeth D. Waiters, Andrew J. Treno, and Joel W. Grube’s discussions with a sample of youth, ages 9–15, support this claim. They found that these youth saw the purpose of beer commercials is to urge people to buy the product based on not only its quality, but also on “its relationship to sexual attractiveness.” They see the “attractive young adults drink beer to personally rewarding ends” and the “youth-oriented music” and are influenced to drink alcohol.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) has specified that the advertising and promotion of alcohol needs to be controlled. In September 2005, the WHO Euro Region adopted a Framework for Alcohol Policy for the Region. This has 5 ethical principles which includes \"All children and adolescents have the right to grow up in an environment protected from the negative consequences of alcohol consumption and, to the extent possible, from the promotion of alcoholic beverages\".\n\nCross-border television advertising within the European Union was previously regulated by the 1989 Television without Frontiers Directive, a harmonisation measure designed to remove barriers to international trade as part of the common market. Article 15 of this Directive sets out the restrictions on alcohol advertising:\n\nThis article on alcohol advertising restrictions is implemented in each EU country largely through the self-regulatory bodies dealing with advertising.\n\nThe EU law 'TV without Frontiers' Directive has subsequently been expanded to cover new media formats such as digital television. Now called the 'Audiovisual Media Services Directive', the provisions regarding restrictions on alcohol advertising are laid out in Article 22 and are identical to the above.\n\nSome countries, such as France, Norway, Russia, Ukraine, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, and Kenya have banned all alcohol advertising on television and billboard.\n\nIn the United States, spirits advertising has self-regulatory bodies that create standards for the ethical advertising of alcohol. The special concern is where advertising is placed.\n\nCurrently, the standard is that alcohol advertisements can only be placed in media where 70% of the audience is over the legal drinking age. Alcohol advertising's creative messages should not be designed to appeal to people under the age of 21, for example, using cartoon characters as spokespeople is discouraged. Advertising cannot promote brands based on alcohol content or its effects. Advertising must not encourage irresponsible drinking. Another issue in media placement is whether media vendors will accept alcohol advertising. The decision to accept an individual ad or a category of advertising is always at the discretion of the owner or publisher of a media outlet.\n\nIn 1991, U.S. Surgeon General Antonia Novello criticized alcoholic beverage companies for \"unabashedly targeting teenagers\" with \"sexual imagery, cartoons, and rock and rap music\" in television and print ads. The Federal Trade Commission conducted an investigation in 2002 into possible targeting to those under the age of 21. However, this investigation and those of some scholars have not found evidence of such targeting. Concerns exist that irresponsible advertising practices or \"pushing the envelope\" with audience composition may lead to permanent legislation governing the advertising of beverage alcohol.\n\nIn Malaysia, alcohol advertising on radio and televisions was outlawed in 1995. On Malaysian television, alcohol advertising is not shown before 10:00 pm and during Malay-language programs. However, non-Malay newspapers and magazines are allowed to continue alcohol advertising. Supermarkets and hypermarkets have also been criticized for advertising alcohol products on trolleys, which is controversial because Islam is the state religion of the country. After the ban of alcohol advertising on Malaysian radio and televisions, they continued to build the brands with sponsorships of concerts and entertainment events.\n\nIn Singapore, alcohol advertisement is not allowed to be shown during programmes intended for children and young persons and during Malay-language programmes.\n\nIn Indonesia, alcohol advertising was legal in the 1990s, but have since been completely banned.\n\nIn Hong Kong, alcohol advertising is not allowed to be shown during Family Viewing Hour programmes.\n\nIn the Philippines, alcohol advertising is allowed. Alcohol warning is also shown in the end of the advertisement explaining with the words: \"Drink Moderately\". In 2012, the warning was changed to \"Drink Responsibly\".\n\nIn Thailand, alcohol advertisements are still allowed, but must accompanied by a warning message. See Alcohol advertising in Thailand.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, public advertising on alcohol is banned totally since 2006.\n\nIn South Korea, public advertising on alcohol is only allowed after 10:00 pm.\n\nIn Russia, advertising alcohol products is banned from almost all media (including television and billboards) since January 2013. Before that, alcohol advertising was restricted from using images of people drinking since mid-2000's.\n\nIn Sweden, since 2010 advertisements are legal for wine and beer, but not on television and radio. Non-periodic magazines are allowed to advertise alcoholic beverages above 15%. These advertisements must contain warnings, but which are worded less strongly than the warnings on tobacco products - for example, \"Avoid drinking while pregnant,\" as opposed to \"smoking kills.\" These rules were introduced into the law 2010 based on the provisions of an EU directive, provisionally applied by Swedish newspapers since 2005. Before that alcohol advertisements were forbidden, except for \"class 1 beer\" or \"light beer.\" Such advertisements were common, as stronger beers which shared a name with advertised light beers, may have benefit from this.\n\nIn Finland, Parliament of Finland decided to ban alcohol outdoor advertising, except during sport events. This new law is going to take place in January 2015.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Advertising Standards Authority have banned several ads that don't comply with the restrictions in the EU directive.\n\nIn Norway, Advertising on alcohol is banned totally since 1975.\n\nIn September 2017, Facebook announced it would allow users to hide all alcohol advertisements. The move is debated within the UK, as Alcohol Research UK group welcomed the change, while the Alcohol Standards Authority, said the UK already had some of the strictest rules in the world.\n\nIn November 2018, Ireland introduced a law banning alcohol advertisements near schools, children play areas, public transportation, and cinemas, as well as restricting visibility of alcohol products in stores. The legislation will take effect November 2019. \n\nThere have been various campaigns to help prevent alcoholism, under-age drinking and drunk driving. The Portman Group, an association of leading drinks producers in the UK, are responsible for various such campaigns. These include responsible drinking, drink driving (and designated drivers), proof of age cards. The \"Drink Aware\" campaign, for example, aims to educate people about how to drink sensibly and avoid binge drinking. The web site address is displayed as part of all of the adverts for products made by members of the group.\n\nThe Century Council, financially supported by a group of alcoholic beverage distillers in the United States, promotes responsible decision-making regarding drinking or non-drinking and works to reduce all forms of irresponsible consumption. Since its founding in 1991, it has invested over 175 million dollars in its programs.\n\nMany campaigns by the alcoholic beverage industry that advocate responsible drinking presuppose that drinking for recreational purposes is a positive activity and reinforce this idea as an example of sensible consumption. Persons who believe alcohol can never simultaneously be used \"sensibly\" and recreationally would obviously disagree with the focus or direction of these campaigns.\n\nA controversial anti-drunk driving advertisement in South Africa has threatened the public with rape in prison. The campaign is still underway with no reported complaints to the advertising standards authorities.\n\nThe sponsorship of sporting events and sportspeople is banned in many countries. For example, the primary club competition in European rugby union, the Heineken Cup, is called the \"H Cup\" in France because of that country's restrictions on alcohol advertising. However, such sponsorship is still common in other areas, such as the United States, although such sponsorship is controversial as children are often a target audience for major professional sports leagues.\n\nAlcohol advertising is common in motor racing competitions, and is particularly prominent in NASCAR and IndyCar. One major example of this was the Busch Series (now known as the Xfinity Series), sponsored by a brand of beer sold by Anheuser-Busch. That sponsorship, which started in the series' conversion from a national Late Model Sportsman races around the country to the present touring format in 1982, ended after 2007.\n\nBudweiser, the best-known Anheuser-Busch brand, has sponsored IndyCar drivers such as Mario Andretti, Bobby Rahal and Paul Tracy, as well as NASCAR Cup drivers such as Terry Labonte, Neil Bonnett, Darrell Waltrip, Bill Elliott, Dale Earnhardt Jr., Kasey Kahne and currently Kevin Harvick. Meanwhile, Miller has sponsored Al Unser, Danny Sullivan, Bobby Rahal, Rusty Wallace, Kurt Busch and currently Brad Keselowski.\n\nFurthermore, NASCAR mandates drivers under 21 not be permitted to wear any alcohol-branded sticker on their cars. In cases with below drinking age drivers, a specialised \"Coors Pole Award - 21 Means 21\" sticker is placed on such drivers' cars. One team, Petty Enterprises, refuses to participate in alcohol advertising and forfeits all alcohol monies and bonuses.\n\nFor distilled spirits, teams must run a responsible drinking sticker clearly visible on the car. For Jack Daniel's, the theme is \"Pace Yourself, Drink Responsibly\", and includes on NASCAR's Web site a waving yellow flag warning drinkers. For Crown Royal, the television ads feature the car with the slogan \"Be a champion, Drink Responsibly\" and it acting as a pace car to drivers, warning them of responsibility. Jim Beam has radio ads and NASCAR mandated statements about alcohol control. None of the three, however, is a full-time sponsor, as they alternate sponsorship with other products unrelated to their firm on the car. (Jim Beam's parent, Fortune Brands, sometimes has its Moen Faucets replace Jim Beam on the car in selected races.)\n\nAlthough tobacco companies have been the main source of financial backing in Formula One, some alcohol brands have also been associated with the sport. For example, Martini appears on the Williams F1 car while Johnnie Walker has sponsored McLaren since 2006.\n\nAnheuser-Busch, being a conglomerate with non-alcoholic properties, complies with the French alcohol advertising ban in Formula One by placing their Busch Entertainment theme park logos (mostly SeaWorld) where their Budweiser logo would appear on the Williams F1 car at races where alcohol advertising is banned and in Middle Eastern countries, where alcohol advertising is discouraged. A few companies, however, have added responsible drinking campaigns with their sponsorship, notably the 1989–90 BTCC Ford Sierra RS500 of Tim Harvey and Laurence Bristow, which was sponsored by Labatt. Throughout the two seasons, the car bore a \"Please Don't Drink and Drive\" message.\n\nSome stadiums, particularly in the U.S., bear the names of breweries or beer brands via naming rights arrangements, such as Busch Stadium, Coors Field, and Miller Park; those three venues are all in or near the cities of their headquarters.\n\nDiageo are a major sponsor of many sporting events through their various brands. For example, Johnnie Walker sponsor the Championship at Gleneagles and Classic golf tournaments along with the Team McLaren Formula One car.\n\nCricket is a sport with a large amount of alcohol sponsorship. The 2005 Ashes, for example, featured sponsorship hoardings by brands such as Red Stripe, Thwaites Lancaster Bomber and Wolf Blass wines. In nations like India and Sri Lanka where alcoholic advertising is generally prohibited, those regulations are rounded with distillers offering clothing lines and sports equipment marked with one of their brands or separate soft drink or bottled water lines within tournaments such as the Indian Premier League and test matches, such as United Spirits Limited's McDowell's No.1 and Pernod Ricard's Royal Stag.\n\nRugby union also has a substantial amount of alcohol sponsorship. The All Blacks feature Steinlager sponsorship prominently. The Scotland national team has a long-established relationship with The Famous Grouse, a brand of Scotch whisky. Wales has a more recent relationship with the Brains brewery (But wear \"Brawn\" when playing in France), and the Springboks of South Africa agreed for South African Breweries to put the Lion Lager, then, the Castle Lager brand on their shirt until 2004. Magners was the title sponsor of the Celtic League, the top competition in Ireland, Scotland and Wales, Guinness is the title sponsor of the Guinness Premiership, the top competition in England, and the beer brand Tooheys New was the Australian sponsor of the Southern Hemisphere Super 14 competition through the 2006 season. Bundaberg Rum is one of the sponsors of the Australia national rugby union team.\n\nRugby league in Australia is sponsored by Victoria Bitter and Bundaberg Rum.\n\nGuinness' iconic stature can be attributed in part to its advertising campaigns. One of the most notable and recognizable series of adverts was created by S.H. Benson's advertising, primarily John Gilroy, in the 1930s and 1940s. Gilroy was responsible for creating posters which included such phrases such as \"Guinness for Strength\", \"It's a Lovely Day for a Guinness\", and most famously, \"Guinness is Good For You\". The posters featured Gilroy's distinctive artwork and more often than not featured animals such as a kangaroo, ostrich, seal, lion, and notably a toucan, which has become as much a symbol of Guinness as the Trinity College Harp. Guinness advertising paraphernalia attracts high prices on the collectible market.\n\nIn a campaign reminiscent of viral marketing techniques, one advert quickly appeared as a screensaver distributed over the Internet. It was a simple concept, featuring Dublin actor Joe McKinney dancing around the drink while it was given time to settle. The accompanying music (mambo tune \"Guaglione\" by Pérez Prado) was released as a single and reached number one on the Irish charts in September 1994 and number two on the UK charts in May 1995 (see List of number-one singles of 1994 (Ireland) List of UK top 10 singles in 1995).\n\nIn Malaysia, Singapore, and Hong Kong, Guinness launched a $8 million advertising campaign using the fictional character of Adam King to promote the embodiment of Guinness as a man could be incredibly powerful. The advertising campaign was handled by advertising firm, Saatchi & Saatchi.\n\nIn Africa, the character of Michael Power has been used since 1999 to boost sales.\n\nToday, Guinness' principal television campaign in North America consists of limited animation commercials featuring two eccentric scientists in 19th-century dress complimenting one another's ideas as \"brilliant!\"\n\nAbsolut vodka is made in Sweden and was introduced to the United States in the year 1979. Its launch was a true challenge due to a variety of factors: Sweden was not perceived as a vodka-producing country, the bottle was very awkward for bartenders to use, and vodka was perceived as a cheap, tasteless drink. Absolut's advertising campaign by TBWA exploited the shape of the bottle to create clever advertisements that caused people to become involved in the advertising, and the brand took off. Before Absolut, there were very few distinctions in the vodka category. Today there are regular, premium, and superpremium vodkas each at different price points and qualities. Flavoured vodka varieties have become numerous and may be found commonly in stores in the U.S.A.\n\nSport has been suggested to be one of the primary, if not the dominant, medium for the promotion of alcohol and drinking to the general population with the majority of advertising spend an advertising placement occurring in sport. Work from New Zealand\nand Australia shows that sponsorship of sports participants or athletes is associated with more hazardous drinking, with calls from the UK, Australia, and New Zealand, for bans on alcohol industry sponsorship and advertising in sport.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24163493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24163493", "title": "Armenia–Azerbaijan relations in the Eurovision Song Contest", "text": "Armenia–Azerbaijan relations in the Eurovision Song Contest\n\nArmenia has participated in the Eurovision Song Contest, a pan-European music competition, since 2006, while Azerbaijan has participated since 2008. The continuing conflict between the two countries over the region of Nagorno-Karabakh, which is considered to be a \"de jure\" part of Azerbaijan by the United Nations, but has been under control of the Armenia-backed \"de facto\" Nagorno-Karabakh Republic since 1993, has affected the Eurovision Song Contest on several occasions.\n\nConflicts between Armenia and Azerbaijan first appeared in 2006, when Azeri media criticized the event's website for listing Nagorno-Karabakh as the birthplace of Armenia's first representative, André, as it was part of the Azerbaijan SSR at the time. Conflicts notably escalated throughout the 2009 contest: during the semi-finals, Azeri officials objected to the depiction of the Nagorno-Karabakh monument \"We Are Our Mountains\" during an introductory video for the Armenian entry. Armenia responded during the finals by displaying multiple images of the monument whilst presenting its results. Following the contest, allegations emerged that Azerbaijan's state broadcaster had tampered with its feed of the broadcast to censor the Armenian entry, and that the Azeri government was interrogating citizens who voted for Armenia, accusing them of being unpatriotic and a threat to security. Following an inquiry, Azerbaijan was fined by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) for breaching the privacy of voters.\n\nFollowing the 2010 Junior Eurovision Song Contest, Armenian media claimed that Azerbaijan's broadcaster had cut off the broadcast when it became apparent that Armenia had won; however, it was disputed whether the contest was even broadcast in Azerbaijan as they had not yet participated. Accordingly, as Azerbaijan prepared to host the 2012 Eurovision Song Contest following its victory in 2011, a group of Armenian musicians led a boycott effort, and the country would ultimately withdraw from the contest, causing the broadcaster to be fined for the late notice. Armenia returned in the 2013 edition, which was held in Sweden. The move was criticized by an Azeri politician and a representative of the country's state broadcaster, who felt that Armenia's participation could have been a symbol of peace between the two nations, and that the decision would further damage the country's reputation.\n\nConflicts between the two countries began to develop again during the lead-up to the 2015 contest, where allegations emerged that the Armenian entry, \"Don't Deny\", was a call for recognition of the Armenian Genocide (whose 100th anniversary was commemorated prior to the 2015 contest). As Azerbaijan denies the genocide, officials from the country issued a statement threatening Armenia for attempting to use Eurovision as an outlet for its \"political ambitions\". The song was subsequently renamed \"Face the Shadow\" to address concerns over its alleged political themes. The following year, Armenian representative Iveta Mukuchyan was reprimanded by organizers for displaying the flag of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic during the first semi-final.\n\nIn 2006—the first year in which Armenia participated, the official Eurovision website listed the birthplace of its performer André as being in the \"Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh\". Media outlets in Azerbaijan criticized the contest's organizers for recognizing the republic, especially given that the region was an autonomous oblast within the Azerbaijan SSR when André was born in 1979. The birthplace listing on André's profile was later removed entirely.\n\nAzerbaijan would make its own Eurovision debut in 2008—marking the first time both Armenia and Azerbaijan competed against each other at the contest. The Armenian entry, \"Qélé, Qélé\" by Sirusho, finished in 4th place, while Azerbaijan's inaugural entry, \"Day After Day\", finished 8th.\n\nDuring the first semi-final of the 2009 contest, the \"postcard\" video introducing the performance of the Armenian entry \"Jan Jan\" depicted, amongst other monuments, \"We Are Our Mountains\", an art piece located in Nagorno-Karabakh's capital city of Stepanakert. Due to the country's claims over the region, Azerbaijani officials objected to the portrayal of \"We Are Our Mountains\" as being an Armenian landmark. For the finals telecast, the video was edited to remove the statue.\n\nIn protest of the decision, multiple photographs of \"We Are Our Mountains\" were displayed during the presentation of voting results from Armenia; one was displayed on a video screen at Yerevan's Republic Square in the background, and another was displayed on the back of a clipboard that the presenter Sirusho was reading results from. Despite the controversy, 1,065 Armenians voted for the Azerbaijani entry, enough to give the country a single point. A total of 43 Azerbaijanis voted for the Armenian entry.\n\nFollowing the contest, reports surfaced that the local Azeri broadcaster, İctimai Television, had attempted to censor the Armenian performance from its broadcast of the final, and had obscured the voting number for the entry in an effort to discourage voting for it. İTV denied these claims, and provided footage showing that its broadcast was untampered with. In August 2009, a number of Azerbaijanis who had voted for Armenia's entry during the contest were summoned for questioning at the Ministry of National Security in Baku, during which they were accused of being \"unpatriotic\" and \"a potential security threat\". One of those summoned, Rovshan Nasirli (who had voted for \"Jan Jan\" because he felt it was a better reflection of Azeri music than \"Always\", the country's actual entry) said that his interrogators told him that they had the names and addresses of all 43 Azerbaijanis who had voted for Armenia.\n\nFollowing these reports, Svante Stockselius, executive supervisor of the Eurovision Song Contest, announced the launch of an enquiry into the incidents. In their response, İctimai TV stated that while two individuals had been invited to the Ministry of National Security, the Ministry had given assurances that nobody had been questioned, either officially or unofficially, on voting in the competition itself. The European Broadcasting Union (EBU) Director General, Jean Réveillon, responded to this by saying that freedom to vote is one of the cornerstones of the contest and \"Any breach of privacy regarding voting, or interrogation of individuals, is totally unacceptable\". Azerbaijani Minister of Youth and Sport, Azad Rahimov, denied that anyone had been summoned to the Ministry of National Security about voting for the Armenian entry, and accused RFE/RL and other news outlets of reporting the allegations to create a scandal.\n\nThe Reference Group of the EBU, which organizes Eurovision, examined the matter at a meeting in Oslo on 11 September 2009. In a statement issued on 17 September, the EBU acknowledged the allegations that Azeri officials were interrogating voters and breaching their privacy. While the EBU would not impose sanctions on or ban Azerbaijan from future editions of the contest (the country could have been banned from the contest for three years), it fined the delegation €2,700, and changed its rules to make participating broadcasters liable for the \"disclosure of information which could be used to identify voters\" during future editions of the contest. Previously, telecommunications providers were liable, but the EBU could not impose sanctions on them.\n\nVladimir Arzumanyan, a singer from Nagorno-Karabakh representing Armenia, won the 2010 Junior Eurovision Song Contest. It was alleged by Armenian media outlets that the broadcast of the contest in Azerbaijan was interrupted when it became apparent that Armenia had won.\n\nThese claims were disputed by Armenia 1 director and Eurovision delegation leader Diana Mnatsakanyan, who also denied reports that the country was preparing to file a complaint with the EBU over the matter. She noted that the broadcaster did not know whether Azerbaijan even aired the contest at all, given that the country had not yet participated in the Junior Eurovision and had \"no interest\" in it at the time, and that reports about the alleged incident were limited to posts on Azerbaijani forums. Azerbaijan would ultimately make its official debut at the Junior Eurovision two years later.\n\nThe 2012 Eurovision Song Contest was hosted by Baku, Azerbaijan after their win in 2011. Azerbaijan temporarily amended its visa policy to allow Armenians, who are normally barred from entering the country, to attend the event. However, in February 2012, a boycott effort emerged in Armenia following an incident where a 20-year-old Armenian soldier was shot dead on the border between the two countries. Armenian officials initially blamed the soldier's death on an Azerbaijani sniper; however, conflicting reports indicated that the death was the result of friendly fire. Also in February, Azeri president Ilham Aliyev made a statement re-affirming the country's stance against Armenians, arguing that they control \"hypocritical and corrupt politicians.\" 22 Armenian musicians, including previous Armenian Eurovision representatives Emmy and Eva Rivas, signed an open letter supporting a boycott, stating that they would \"refuse to appear in a country that is well-known for the mass killings and massacres of Armenians, in a country where anti-Armenian sentiments have been elevated to the level of state policy.\"\n\nOn 7 March 2012, Armenian officials announced that the country would withdraw from the 2012 contest. The EBU stated that it was \"truly disappointed\" with Armenia's withdrawal, and that \"despite the efforts of the EBU and the Host Broadcaster to ensure a smooth participation for the Armenian delegation in this year's Contest, circumstances beyond our control lead to this unfortunate decision.\" İTV General Director Ismayil Omarov expressed his regret about Armenia's withdrawal, believing that the country's presence could have been a \"joint peace message to the world.\" Local politician Ali Ahmadov also criticized the Armenian delegation for its decision, stating that \"[its] refusal to take part in such a respected contest will cause even further damage to the already damaged image of Armenia.\"\n\nDue to its late withdrawal, Armenia was required to pay its entry fee, plus a fine totalling half the value of the entry fee.\n\nUpon its unveiling in March 2015, media outlets characterized Armenia's entry in the 2015 Eurovision Song Contest, \"Don't Deny\", as being in tribute to the Armenian Genocide, whose centenary was commemorated on 24 April 2015. The song was performed by Genealogy, a group whose composition alludes to the forget-me-not by consisting of five Armenian diaspora, along with a sixth singer representing Armenia and their unity. \"Don't Deny\" was perceived by critics to be a call for recognition of the genocide, further noting that the song's music video contained a scene depicting the group's members posing for a family photo in World War I-era outfits, and then disappearing from sight. Gohar Gasparyan, head of Armenia's Eurovision delegation, described the song as being about love and unity, and did not make reference to any specific political intent or themes. Representatives of Azerbaijan—which, alongside Turkey, denies the genocide—criticized the song for its alleged political themes, and stated that they would \"act adequately\" to prevent the contest from being \"sacrificed to the political ambitions of a country.\"\n\nOn 16 March 2015, the Armenian delegation announced that the title of the entry had been changed to \"Face the Shadow\"; they stated that the new title was meant to \"strengthen\" the themes of the song, and to quell concerns over the alleged political subtext. The delegation continued to deny any specific political subtext in the song.\n\nDespite the EBU allowing only the flags of full UN member states to be displayed at the 2016 contest, during the first semi-final on 10 May 2016, the Armenian representative Iveta Mukuchyan was seen holding the flag of Nagorno-Karabakh, sparking backlash from the Azeri press. During a press conference following the semi-final, Mukuchyan responded to the incident by stating that \"You don't have to forget that I am representing my country in my heart, my thoughts, my feelings, and all my emotions. My thoughts are with my motherland, and what I want to spread is peace on borders. I wrote 'LoveWave' because this was going on inside of me.\"\n\nThe EBU and the reference group released a statement the following day explaining that they \"strongly condemn the brandishing of the Nagorno-Karabakh flag\" during the live transmission of the first semi final, and consider the appearance \"harmful\" to the contest brand. The reference group has consequently sanctioned the Armenian broadcaster AMPTV, with the nature of the sanction to be determined citing a breach of the rule stating \"no messages promoting any organisation, institution, political cause or other causes shall be allowed in the shows\". Furthermore, the reference group has pointed out that a further breach of the rules of the contest could lead to disqualification from the year's event or any successive editions. Hikmet Hajiyev, the spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Azerbaijan called the action of Mukuchyan \"provocative\" and unacceptable claiming that \"the Armenian side deliberately resorts to such steps to encourage and promote the illegal formation created in the occupied Azerbaijani territories”.\n\n"}
{"id": "7787195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7787195", "title": "Asian Formula Three Championship", "text": "Asian Formula Three Championship\n\nThe Asian Formula Three Championship was a single-seater racing series based in South East Asia. It is one of a number of national and international Formula Three championships that form part of an established \"career ladder\" below Formula One. It was most recently promoted as the Asian F3 Pacific Series. The 2009 series collapsed through a lack of competitors with some teams dispersing to other Formula 3 series in the region.\n\nThe creators of the Asian F3 Championship intended the series to provide young Asian drivers with a stepping stone to the higher levels of single-seater motor racing. Asia has not traditionally had the motor racing profile and career ladder from which European drivers benefit. There was clearly a need to change this and to demonstrate the feasibility of Formula Three to potential sponsors in light of the region's growing economy. The series' organisers have held corporate track days in the Philippines, as part of their efforts to attract sponsorship.\n\nAsian F3 is positioned between two other single seater formulae in Asia's fledgling motorsport culture: below it sits \"Formula BMW Asia\", which is one of four Formula BMW series worldwide, and positioned above it is \"Formula Renault V6\", which is derived from the now defunct \"Formula Renault V6 Eurocup\" that was held in Europe, and uses the same Tatuus chassis and Renault-derived V6 engine.\n\nThe championship is organised by the \"Asian Formula Three Corporation\", which is managed by Jose Eduardo Peña from offices in Manila. The corporation's stockholders comprise the participating teams. Current stockholders include the proprietors of Speedtech Asia; Joson F3 Racing (disbanded); Team Goddard; Ghiasports (not in the series anymore); TOM's Asia (teamed up with Threebond Racing in the 2005 series); and Kinectic Racing (disbanded). Stockholders are not required to pay the entry fee of $2000 per season.\nUnfortunately, the 2007-08 season which is the pacific series, is the last season of the series. The series' reputation was badly damaged in the 2007-08 season by Bahrain driver Hamad Al Fardan who had complained that championship leaders Frederic Vervisch and Team Goddard were using illegal petrol to go faster than him. It was later revealed that Team Goddard principal, Mark Goddard, was also the organiser of the championship and was even competing under the pseudonym of \"Don Tacos\". While Fardan's comments were entirely unfounded, support in the final round of the 2007-08 season was minimal with a total of only 7 entered cars opposed to the 12 that had started at the first round. The 2009 season never materialized due to lack of teams and drivers joining the series, and the season champions which is the Team Goddard moved its racing operation in the Australian Formula 3 series that same year.\nThe typical operating budget of an Asian F3 team is circa £80,000. This fact, coupled with a steady rise in its international profile, serves to attract a number of European drivers who lack the budget that is required to compete in the established European championships.\n\nThe winner of the drivers' championship title is rewarded with a fully sponsored entry to the end-of-season, non-championship Macau Grand Prix.\n\nFor 2007/08 season, the winner of the drivers' championship will be rewarded with a Formula 1 test drive with the Force India F1 Team.\n\nNotable drivers who have graduated from Asian F3 include Indonesian A1GP driver Ananda Mikola and 2004 champion, Australian Christian Jones, the son of former world champion Alan Jones. The 2006 champion, Britain's James Winslow, received attention and praise for his dramatic rescue of a competitor who was trapped in his upturned car at Sentul in Indonesia. In acknowledgment, he received a \"Gregor Grant\" Award at the annual Autosport Awards ceremony in the UK, and a Bronze Award from the Royal Humane Society.\n\nThe series benefits from the involvement of the noted Japanese F3 team, Three Bond Racing, which carried Winslow to the drivers' title in its collaboration with JA Motorsports, and secured the teams' title in the process.\n\nAt the end of 2007 the championship became a \"winter type series\" naming it the AF3 Pacific Series, starting the championship in November 2007 and ending in May 2008. New teams have joined the series during that championship, Drew-Evans Motorsport Group, Team GFH Bahrain,Champ Motorsport and PTRS from Hong Kong along with some good drivers, namely Frederic Vervisch (the 2007-08 champion), Matthew Howson, Rafael Suzuki and Hamad Al Fardan. Ed Pead, Nial Quinn, Arturo Gonzales, Leonardo Valois, David Julien and Peter Kalpakiotis also raced at select rounds.\n\nIn the 2007 season Dillon Battisstini managed to beat Henri Karjalainen in the championship. Other notable drivers include Morenon Soerapto, Oliver Turvey, Paul Ip, Don Tacos, Philip Forsman, Walter Grubmuller, Robin Tato, Edwin Jowsey and James Littlejohn.\n\nIn 2006, the championship saw the first two lady drivers of the series, namely Gaby dela Merced for Speedtech Asia Team Indonesia and Michele Bumgarner for Team Goddard. The series also saw the return of Roland Hermoso (2001 Formula Toyota champion) in Formula 3 racing driving alongside Gaby in Speedtech Asia Team Indonesia, and a new team was put up by Mandy Borja and Jonh O\"Hara naming it Aran Racing.\n\nWhile in 2005 saw numerous Filipino drivers joined the championship, namely Tyson Sy and JP Carino for Speedtech Asia, Dado Pena for Team Goddard, John Marcelo (brother of Jovy Marcelo) for Christian Jones Motorsports, Pepon Marave for Kinetic F3 Racing, Renan Morales for Fujitsu-Ten Team TOM'S, JP Tuason for Tuason Racing School and Enzo Pastor for Team T.E.C. Pilipnas.\n\nAs the series first inaugurated in the early 2000, numerous teams have joined the series, in 2002, Team Vertex of Marchy lee, Paul and Jeffrey Chan, Michael Ho and Johnathan Chan. Christian Jones Motorsports return in 2004 after competing in the last few rounds of the series in 2003, along with Team BRM of Australia. Team Goddard was renamed Minardi Asia Team Goddard after the former F1 team joined the series and collaborated with Mark Goddard's team, while in 2009, the team opted to join the Formula 3 Australia series leaving the Asian Formula 3 which it had won numerous drivers and teams championship.\n\nFormula Three championships subscribe to the technical regulations that are set by the FIA, and the Asian F3 Championship is no exception, but there are some important differences in this instance. Formula Three is traditionally an open formula, which means that it does not restrict competitors to a single chassis or engine. Most series now use single \"control\" suppliers for tires and fuel, both of which are subject to the FIA's regulations, but Asian F3 goes a step further by using a single engine builder (TOM's-Toyota) and prohibiting the latest chassis specifications according to their age. These measures are part of a dedicated effort to minimise running budgets. The tires are supplied by Yokohama (now are Dunlops).\n\nLike the British, Spanish and European championships, Asian F3 supports two championship classes: positioned below the \"International Class\" is a \"Promotions Class\" specifically for older chassis specifications. It is aimed primarily at younger, less experienced drivers. In the 2006 season, International Class drivers used the two-year-old Dallara F304 and the five-year-old F301, and Promotions Class drivers used the eight-year-old F398. Each of these specifications are part of a different three-year lifecycle in Dallara's update program.\n\nEach event in the championship is normally run to a four-day schedule. It comprises three races, plus three hours of free practice and one 30-minute qualifying session. The free practice is divided into six 30-minute sessions, split between the first two days of each four-day event. Qualifying is held on the third day, prior to the first race, with the second and third races held on the final day. Each race is at least 20 minutes in duration, over a distance of at least 40 km. Where a shorter two- or three-day schedule must be used, the dropped practice days are supplanted by equivalent test days earlier in the same week.\n\nThe Asian F3 Championship visits circuits located throughout the Southeast Asian region, which have included Sentul in Indonesia; Zhuhai and Goldenport Park in China; Autopolis in Japan; and Subic and Batangas in the Philippines. In 2007, Asian F3 visited Albert Park in Melbourne, Australia as a support race for the 2007 Australian Grand Prix.\n\n"}
{"id": "36748962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36748962", "title": "BigChurchDayOut", "text": "BigChurchDayOut\n\nThe Big Church Day Out is a Christian non-profit music festival that takes place in Wiston, West Sussex, England, best known for its contemporary Christian music. Many musical types are represented at the festival with the festival to appeal to all denominations of Christians. The main musical genres featured are Christian rock, contemporary worship music, gospel and Christian rap.\n\nThe festival was extended from one day to three days in 2010, with an additional day in the Midlands. That year, the number of attendees went up to 25,000 from 15,000 the year before. The next year, in 2011, the length of the festival was reduced to two days and the number attending decreased to 20,000.\n\nThe Big Church Day Out was created by Tim Jupp, a founding member of Delirious?. The leading Christian pop and rock artists have appeared as headline acts with others appearing on smaller stages.\n\nThe event was featured on BBC Songs of Praise on 30 June 2013.\n\nIn 2017, a second weekend was held a week later at Capesthorne Hall in Cheshire.\n\nFamous Artist over the years have included Yfriday, Michael W Smith, Natalie Evans, for KING & COUNTRY, Switchfoot, Toby Mac, Casting Crowns, Phil Wickham, Newsboys, Delirious?, Israel Houghton, LZ7, Bethel Music, Jesus Culture, Lecrae, Gungor, Planet Shakers, BOSH (band), Matt Redman, Hillsong United (band), Dance Like Kings, Matt Maher and Tim Hughes. Israel Houghton has performed the most times, performing in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2015.\nIn 2014, bands such as Worship Central (with Tim Hughes) and Rend Collective also attended. The amount of space for camping and at the main arena also doubled.\n"}
{"id": "52529984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52529984", "title": "Bits &amp; Pretzels", "text": "Bits &amp; Pretzels\n\nBits & Pretzels is a three-day conference for founders and enthusiasts from the start-up scene, which takes place in Munich during the Oktoberfest.So far, speakers included international and national founders and investors, among them the founders of Virgin, Airbnb, Lottoland, Shazam, Tinder, Zendesk and Evernote. The goal of the event is inspiration through lectures and the networking of the participants among each other. On top of that, the city of Munich is brought into focus as an international start-up location and the entire German start-up scene will be strengthened.\n\nSeptember 2014 the first founder event Bits & Pretzels took place, which was founded by Andreas Bruckschlögl and Bernd Storm. Since January 2015, Felix Haas supports the team as the third co-host. At the first event in September 2014, 1,400 participants came together in the ballroom of the Löwenbraukeller in Munich. Among the first speakers were the founders of Qype, mydealz, Stylight, and XING and various start-up pitches took place. Ilse Aigner, who is also the patron of the event, led a panel discussion on current political topics. The proceeds from the event were donated to the Munich Tafel.\n\nThe second Bits & Pretzels took place on January 16, 2015. This event already drew 1,800 participants. In addition to national speakers, international speakers were also present this time. Philip Inghelbrecht and Avery Wang gave a talk about SHAZAM! and talked about their initial problems. Other speakers included Jonathan Badeen from Tinder and Ray Chan from 9GAG.\n\nThe third Bits & Pretzels with around 3,500 participants took place from September 27-29, 2015. Instead of it being a breakfast, this event was planned as a three-day festival for the first time. The last day of the conference ended in the Schottenhamel tent at the Oktoberfest. The speakers included, among others, the CEO of Adidas Herbert Hainer or Niklas Östberg, CEO of Delivery Hero.\n\nFrom September 25-27, 2016, over 5000 participants came together for 4th Bits & Pretzels. As in the previous year, the first two days took place at the International Congress Center of Messe München and the last day at the Oktoberfest. Speakers included the British entrepreneur Richard Branson, the American actor Kevin Spacey, the founder of Airbnb Nathan Blecharczyk, CEO of the Mozilla Foundation as well as the investors of the VOX TV show “Die Höhle der Löwen”. \n\nFrom September 24-26, 2017, another 5,000 participants came together in Munich, after the number of participants for this event was capped. The speakers at the 2017 event included Stefan Raab, the former World (Soccer) Players of the Year Philipp Lahm, and Oliver Kahn, the American actress Carice van Houten (famous for her role in Game of Thrones) and the CEOs of adidas, Infineon and E.ON.\n\nFor the event in 2018, the satirist and television presenter Jan Böhmermann, the former F1 world champion Nico Rosberg, the founder of the #MeToo movement Tarana Burke, as well as the CEOs of Vodafone Germany, Volocopter and FlixMobility have already been confirmed.\n\nAt Bits & Pretzels, founders of national and international companies tell their success story and give tips. Keynotes, workshops, panel discussions, masterclasses, and a start-up competition are scheduled for the first two days of the conference at the International Congress Center in Munich. The speakers on the main stage wear Bavarian costume to combine Bavarian tradition with innovation. The third day of the event is all about networking, so once again all the participants come together at the Oktoberfest. Following the “Table Captain” principle, the young founders and investors network over beer and chicken in the packed Oktoberfest tent. \n\nIn 2017, “Topic Tables” revolving around one specific topic were introduced for the first time. With a Corporate Innovation stage and an Investor's stage, new areas of focus have been set in 2017. The topic of \"matchmaking, was strengthened on site with a specially designated area to facilitate networking among the participants. In addition to industry-related content, an entertainment program with comedians and bands provided some diversion. In 2015, the Bavarian Comedian Harry G was on stage, and in 2016, the German band Sportfreunde Stiller gave a concert. In 2017, the band Moop Mama played in the Oktoberfest tent as a surprise. Previously implemented on a small scale, in 2017 the Bits & Pretzels Start-up Night, during which even non-Bits & Pretzels-participants were able to attend evening events all over Munich took place for the first time.\n\nAt the event, national as well as international speakers form start-ups, international companies and large DAX companies give speeches. \n\nThe Table Captains are representatives from the fields of media, economics, or education, tasked with stimulating discussions at their assigned tables on the third day of Bits & Pretzels at the Oktoberfest. According to the “first-come, first-served” principle, participants can select in advance which table captain they would like to share the table with.\n\n"}
{"id": "36418133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36418133", "title": "Bucetin", "text": "Bucetin\n\nBucetin (INN, BAN) is an analgesic and antipyretic that is no longer marketed. Chemically, it is similar to phenacetin with which it shares the risk of carcinogenesis. Bucetin was withdrawn from use in 1986 due to renal toxicity.\n\n"}
{"id": "50404348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50404348", "title": "Cleveland Abduction", "text": "Cleveland Abduction\n\nCleveland Abduction is a 2015 American crime drama television film directed by Alex Kalymnios from a teleplay written by Stephen Tolkin. Based on the Ariel Castro kidnappings, the film stars Taryn Manning, Raymond Cruz and Joe Morton. It debuted May 2, 2015 on Lifetime.\n\nThe film is based on the memoir, \"\" by Michelle Knight.\n\nMichelle Knight (Manning) was abducted by Ariel Castro (Cruz) on August 23, 2002 in Cleveland, Ohio. She was held captive in his home for almost 11 years before finally being rescued on May 6, 2013. Finding strength through her belief in God and determined to be reunited with her son, Knight refused to be broken down by Castro. Soon thereafter Castro kidnaps, abducts and rapes two more girls, Amanda Berry (Droke) and Gina DeJesus (Sarife). These girls too become imprisoned along with Knight. They become friends and fellow victims, and they treat each other as sisters through their years in captivity.\n\nWhen Berry became pregnant with Castro's child, it was Knight who delivered her baby, even performing CPR on the infant girl under the threat of Castro killing her if Berry's child didn't survive. Despite enduring more than a decade of brutality and captivity, Michelle's spirit would not be broken as her faith in the face of what she once thought would be a hopeless situation was a testament to the human spirit. On May 6, 2013, Michelle was rescued from the home that was her prison for nearly 11 years, and finally given the chance to reclaim her life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1450267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1450267", "title": "Ded Moroz", "text": "Ded Moroz\n\nDed Moroz (, \"Ded Moroz\" ; , \"Dzyed Maróz\"; , \"Did Moróz\"; Russian diminutive , \"Dédushka Moróz\"; / \"Deda Mraz\"; also Morozko () is a fictional character similar to that of Father Christmas and Santa Claus and has its roots in Slavic mythology. The tradition of Ded Moroz is mostly spread in East Slavic countries. The literal translation is \"Grandfather Frost\", but depending on the language it can also be translated as \"Old Man Frost\". Ded Moroz is depicted as bringing presents to well-mannered children, often delivering them in person on New Year's Eve.\n\nIn East Slavic cultures, Ded Moroz is accompanied by Snegurochka (, \"Snegurochka\"; , \"Snihurónka\"; \"Snow Maiden\"), his granddaughter and helper, who wears long silver-blue robes and a furry cap or a snowflake-like crown. She is a unique attribute of Ded Moroz, since similar characters in other cultures do not have a female companion.\n\nDed Moroz wears a heel-length fur coat, a semi-round fur hat, and \"valenki\" on his feet. He has a long white beard. He walks with a long magic staff and often rides a troika.\n\nThe residence of Ded Moroz in Russia is considered to be the town of Veliky Ustyug, Vologda Oblast. The residence of the Belarusian Dzyed Maroz is said to be in Belavezhskaya Pushcha.\n\nThe origins of the character of Ded Moroz predates Christianity as a Slavic wizard of winter, in some books he is a son of Slavic pagan gods Veles and Mara. According to some sources in Slavic mythology, Frost or Morozko is a snow demon. However, before the Christianity of Rus' the term demon had no negative connotation. Like with many other mythical figures only over time demons were attributed negative characteristics.\n\nUnder the influence of Orthodox traditions, the character of Ded Moroz was transformed. Since the 19th century the attributes and legend of Ded Moroz have been shaped by literary influences. The play \"Snegurochka\" by Aleksandr Ostrovsky was influential in this respect, as was Rimsky-Korsakov's \"Snegurochka\" with libretto based on the play. By the end of the 19th century Ded Moroz became a popular character.\nFollowing the Russian Revolution, Christmas traditions were actively discouraged because they were considered to be \"bourgeois and religious\". Similarly, in 1928 Ded Moroz was declared \"an ally of the priest and \"kulak\"\". Nevertheless, the image of Ded Moroz took its current form during Soviet times, becoming the main symbol of the New Year’s holiday (Novy God) that replaced Christmas. Some Christmas traditions were revived following the famous letter by Pavel Postyshev, published in \"Pravda\" on December 28, 1935. Postyshev believed that the origins of the holiday, which were pre-Christian, were less important than the benefits it could bring to Soviet children.\n\nDed Moroz is very popular in modern Russia. In 1998, the town of Veliky Ustyug in Vologda Oblast, Russia was declared the home of the Russian Ded Moroz by Yury Luzhkov, then Mayor of Moscow. Between 2003 and 2010, the post office in Veliky Ustyug received approximately 2,000,000 letters from within Russia and from all over the world for Ded Moroz. On January 7, 2008, then President Putin of the Russian Federation visited Ded Moroz' residence in the town of Veliky Ustyug as part of the Russian Orthodox Christmas Eve celebration.\n\nThe western Santa Claus made inroads in the Russian Federation during the \"turbulent\" 1990s when Western culture increased its penetration into the post-Soviet Russia. The resurgence of Russia in the early 21st century brought about a renewed emphasis on the basic Slavic character of Ded Moroz. This included the Russian Federation and subordinate governments sponsoring courses about Ded Moroz every December, with the aim of establishing appropriate Slavic norms for Ded Moroz and Snegurochka (\"Snow Maiden\" - Ded Moroz' granddaughter) roles for the New Year holiday. People playing Ded Moroz and Snegurochka now typically make appearances at children's parties during the winter holiday season, distributing presents and fighting off the wicked witch, Baba Yaga, who children are told wants to steal the gifts.\n\nIn November and December 2010, Ded Moroz was one of the candidates in the running for consideration as a mascot for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia.\n\nMany ethnic minorities have for linguistic reasons other names for Ded Moroz or even have their own culture-equivalent counterparts to Ded Moroz. For example, in Bashkir and Tatar, Ded Moroz is known as \"Ҡыш бабай\" (\"Qïš babay\", literally: \"Winter Old Man\"). In Nenets he is known as \"Yamal Iri\" (\"Grandfather of Yamal\"). The Yakut indigenous people have their own counterpart to Ded Moroz, which is called \"Chys Khaan\" (\"Master of Cold\").\n\nDed Moroz, and on occasion the Belarus \"Dzied Maroz\", are presented in the media as being in on-going détente with various counterparts from other cultures, such as the Estonian Santa Claus (\"Jõuluvana\" or \"Old man of Christmas\"), the Finnish Santa Claus (\"Joulupukki\" or \"Yule Goat\"), and other Santa Claus, Father Christmas, and Saint Nicholas figures. Some people also say, that Ded Moroz is Santa Claus's grandfather.<ref name=\"Estonia/Russia: Santa Claus Shakes Hands With Father Frost – Jan 1, 2006\"></ref> The détente efforts portrayed have included one-on-one meetings, group meetings and friendly competitions, such as the annual November Santa Claus championships of Celle, Germany.\n\nThe traditional meeting of Russian Ded Moroz and Finnish Joulupukki was held in 2015 despite political isolation of Russia in the West because of Ukraine conflict.\n\nIn November 2009, for the first time, the Russian Federation offered competition to NORAD Tracks Santa with GLONASS Tracks Ded Moroz, which purports to use GLONASS (GLObal NAvigation Satellite System or \"the Russian GPS\") to track Ded Moroz on New Year's Eve (according to the Gregorian Calendar).\n\nThe Russian language website (a language not currently offered by the competing NORAD Tracks Santa) includes these features: \"real-time tracking\" of Ded Moroz, \"news\" of Ded Moroz throughout the year, a form to send e-mail to Ded Moroz, photos, videos, streaming audio of Russian songs, poems and verses from children's letters to Ded Moroz, information on Veliky Ustyug in Vologda Oblast (considered to be Ded Moroz's hometown) and opportunities to enter competitions and win prizes.\n\nThere are equivalents of Ded Moroz and Snegurochka all over the former USSR, as well as the countries once in the so-called Eastern bloc and in the former Yugoslavia. After the Dissolution of the Soviet Union, some of these countries made efforts to move away from Soviet and Russian heritage toward their own ancient traditions.\n\nIn Azerbaijani, Ded Moroz is known as \"Şaxta Baba\" (\"Grandfather Frost\") and his companion Snegurochka is known as \"Qar Qızı\" (\"Snow Girl\"). In the predominantly Muslim but secular country, where Christians are a very small minority, this tradition remains very popular. \"Şaxta Baba\" brings gifts to children at New Year celebrations, however \"Qar Qızı\" is rarely present at the festivities.\n\nDed Moroz is \"Dzied Maroz\" () in Belarusian language. He is not a historical folkloric Belarusian character.\n\nThe official residence of \"Dzied Maroz\" in Belarus is declared to be in Bialowieza Forest.\n\nThe Bulgarian name of Santa Claus is Дядо Коледа (\"Dyado Koleda\", Grandfather Koleda), with \"Dyado Mraz\" (Дядо Мраз, \"Grandfather Frost\") being a similar Russian-imported character lacking the Christian connotations and thus popular during Communist rule. However, he has been largely forgotten since 1989, when \"Dyado Koleda\" again returned as the more popular figure.\n\nIn socialist Yugoslavia (Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia) the character who was said to bring gifts to children was called \"Grandfather Frost\" (Bosnian: \"Djed Mraz\" (Дјед Мраз) or \"Djeda Mraz\" (Дједа Мраз); Croatian: \"Djed Mraz\"; Macedonian: Дедо Мраз (\"Dedo Mraz\"); Serbian: Деда Мраз (\"Deda Mraz\"); Slovenian: \"Dedek Mraz\"). He was said to bring gifts for the New Year because public celebration of Christmas was frowned upon during communism.\n\nIn Croatia after the breakup of Yugoslavia, \"Djed Mraz\" was labeled communist creation and \"Djed Božićnjak\" (literally: \"Grandfather Christmas\") was introduced. Attempts were made in the mass media and advertising to replace \"Djed Mraz\" with \"Djed Božićnjak\". After 1999 the names of \"Djed Mraz\" and \"Djed Božićnjak\" became more or less synonymous, including in their use on public television. In some families \"Djed Mraz\" is still said to brings gifts at New Year. In Croatia, children also get presents on December 6. Due to historical influence of Austrian culure in parts of Croatia, presents are also said to be brought by a traditional figure called \"Sveti Nikola\" (\"Saint Nicholas\") who closely resembles \"Djed Mraz\" or \"Djed Božićnjak\", except for the fact that he is accompanied by Krampus who takes misbehaving children away, another character from Central European folklore. In some religious families, little Jesus (Isusek, Mali Isus, Kriskindl) is said to brings gifts at Christmas instead of \"Djed Božićnjak\". Also, in some parts of Dalmatia the gifts are brought by Sveta Lucija (\"Saint Lucy\")..\n\nIn Slovenia, the name \"Ded Moroz\" was translated from Russian as \"Dedek Mraz\" (literally, \"Grandpa Frost\"). \"Dedek Mraz\" is depicted as a slim man wearing a grey leather coat, which has fur inside and is decorated outside, and a round dormouse fur cap. This version of the character is based on traditional imagery, especially as depicted by Maksim Gaspari in images commissioned in 1952. Although the name was translated literally from the Soviet figure, other names for the character were also considered: \"Sneženi mož\" (\"the Snow Man\") and \"oca Triglav\" (\"Daddy Triglav\"). A female figure names \"babica Zima\" (Grandma Winter) was also proposed. Initially he was said to live in Siberia, but with the Informbiro crisis and the schism between Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union his home was relocated to Mt. Triglav, Slovenia's (and also Yugoslavia's) highest peak. Public processions featuring the character began in Ljubljana in 1953. The notion of Grandpa Frost was ideologically useful because it served to reorient the December/January holidays away from religion (Saint Nicholas Day and Christmas) and towards the secular New Year. After the ousting of Communism at the beginning of the 1990s, two other \"good old men\" (as they are currently styled in Slovenian) reappeared in public: \"Miklavž\" (\"Saint Nicholas\") is said to bring presents on December 6, and \"Božiček\" (\"Christmas man\"; usually depicted as Santa Claus) on Christmas Eve. St. Nicholas has had a strong traditional presence in Slovenian ethnic territory and his feast day remained celebrated in family circles throughout the Communist period. Until the late 1940s it was also said in some areas of Slovenia that Christkind (called \"Jezušček\" (\"little Jesus\") or \"Božiček\") brought gifts on Christmas Eve. Slovenian families have different preferences regarding their gift-giver of choice, according to political or religious persuasion. Slovenian popular culture depicts Grandpa Frost, Saint Nicholas and Santa Claus as friends and has also started blending attributes of the characters, for example, mention of Santa's reindeer is sometimes mingled into the Grandpa Frost narrative at public appearances. Due to his non-religious character and strong institutionalization, Grandpa Frost continues to retain a public presence.\n\nAyaz Ata is the Kazakh and Kyrgyz name for Ded Moroz.\n\nWhile there is no traditional analog of Ded Moroz in Polish folklore, there was an attempt to introduce him as \"Dziadek Mróz\" during the communist period. Communists, opposed to religion in general, considered Christmas and traditional \"Święty Mikołaj\" (Saint Nicholas) \"ideologically hostile\". Therefore, propaganda attempted to replace him with Dziadek Mróz. Authorities often insisted on using the figure in schools and preschools during celebrations and events for children. This was also supposed to create an illusion of cultural links with the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1948, after the Communists gained power in Romania, it was decided that Christmas should not be celebrated. December 25 and December 26 became working days and no official celebrations were to be held. As a replacement for \"Moş Crăciun\" (Father Christmas), a new character was introduced, \"Moş Gerilă\" (literally \"Old Man Frosty\", a Romanian language adaptation of the Russian Ded Moroz). He was said to bring gifts to children on December 31.\n\nOfficially, the New Year's Day celebrations began on 30 December, which was named the Day of the Republic, since it was the day when King Mihai I of Romania abdicated in 1947.\n\nAfter the Romanian Revolution of 1989, \"Moş Gerilă\" lost his influence, being replaced by \"Moş Crăciun\".\n\nChys Khan is known as the master of cold, accompanied by the snow maiden Khaarchana.\n\nIn Tajikistan the tradition of Ded Moroz has continued. In Tajik, Ded Moroz is known as \"Boboi Barfi\" (\"Grandfather Snow\"), and Snegurochka is called \"Barfak\" (\"Snowball\").\n\nIn 2012, a young man dressed as Ded Moroz was stabbed to death in Dushanbe by a crowd shouting \"You infidel!\". The murder was motivated by religious hatred, according to the Tajik police.\n\nOn 11 December 2013, Saidali Siddiqov, the first deputy head of the Committee for TV and Radio-broadcasting under the Government of Tajikistan, announced in an interview that \"Father Frost, his maiden sidekick Snegurochka (Maiden Snow), and New Year’s tree will not appear on the state television this year, because these personages and attributes bear no direct relation to our national traditions, though there is no harm in them\". However next day this was denounced, and planned celebrations did include these despite objections of some religious figures.\n\nIn 2014, Ukraine has attempted to replace Ded Moroz with Saint Nicholas (Святий Микола, \"Sviatyi Mykolai\") which is more popular in Western Ukraine, as reported by Russian media.\n\nIn 2012, Uzbekistan, a largely Muslim nation, moved away from celebrating Christmas and its historical characters.\n\n"}
{"id": "45428362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45428362", "title": "Der Österreichische Volkswirt", "text": "Der Österreichische Volkswirt\n\nDer Österreichische Volkswirt (also known as \"ÖVW\"; meaning \"The Austrian Economist\" in English) was a German language economics and political magazine published in Vienna, Austria. It was the first business publication in the country.\n\n\"ÖVW\" was started in Vienna in 1908. The founder of the magazine was Walther Federn. The magazine was published biweekly.\n\nKarl Polanyi contributed to the magazine in the mid-1920s. He was also on the editorial team from 1924 to 1938. Peter F. Drucker was another contributor to the magazine.\n\n\"ÖVW\" ceased publication in 1938. The magazine was restarted on a weekly basis at the end of 1945.\n\nList of magazines in Austria\n"}
{"id": "19124761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19124761", "title": "Dysfunctional Family Picnic", "text": "Dysfunctional Family Picnic\n\nDysfunctional Family Picnic was a multi-artist alternative rock concert, presented annually by the New York City, New York, USA radio station K-Rock, beginning in 1997. Its West Coast \"sister\" concert is the KROQ Weenie Roast.\n\nThere have been various venues that hosted the Dysfunctional Family Picnic including Forest Hills Tennis Stadium in Queens, New York, PNC Bank Arts Center in Holmdel, New Jersey, Giants Stadium, in East Rutherford, New Jersey and Jones Beach Amphitheatre in Wantagh, New York.\n\nIn 2003, the Dysfunctional Family Pinic was called \"DFP 7-Tarium\". Instead of booking an original show, it was just another stop on Metallica's Summer Sanitarium tour.\n\nAfter K-Rock returned to the air in 2007, \"Return of Rock\" was their first concert.\n\nBands listed in reverse order of night's performance (or alphabetical order if not known).\n"}
{"id": "47821293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47821293", "title": "Evacuation in the Soviet Union", "text": "Evacuation in the Soviet Union\n\nEvacuation in the Soviet Union was the mass migration of western Soviet citizens and its industries eastward as a result of Operation Barbarossa, the German military invasion of June 1941. Nearly sixteen million Soviet civilians and over 1,500 large factories were moved to areas in the middle or eastern part of the country by the end of 1941. Along with the eastern exodus of civilians and industries, other unintended consequences of the German advances saw the execution of previously held western state civilians by Soviet NKVD units, the removal of Lenin's body from Moscow to Tyumen, and the relocation of the Hermitage Museum collection to Sverdlovsk, Kuybyshev, the alternative capital of the Soviet Union 1941-1943. Soviet towns and cities inland or in the east received the bulk of the new refugees and high priority war factories, as locations such as the Siberian city of Novosibirsk, received more than 140,000 refugees and many factories due to its location away from the front lines. Despite early German successes in seizing control of large swaths of the western USSR throughout 1943, and semi-prepared contingency plans by the Soviets in their mobilization plans to the east, Soviet industries would eventually outpace the Germans in arms production, culminating in 73,000 tanks, 82,000 aircraft and nearly 324,000 artillery pieces being dispersed throughout the Red Army in their fight against the Axis Powers by 1945.\n\nWith Stalin and the Communist Party's Central Committee knowing that Hitler would eventually turn on the Soviet Union, there were plans made before Operation Barbarossa was launched to begin the evacuation as a precaution to Nazi assault. A Party man in Moscow involved in that city's evacuation committee, Vasilii Prokhorovich Pronin, submitted a plan that would have removed some one million Muscovites, but it was rejected by Stalin. It would have to wait for the actual invasion before the Party enacted any real plan for evacuation.\n\nTwo days after the German invasion of June 22, 1941, the Party created an Evacuation Council in an attempt to create a procedure for the coming evacuation of Soviet citizens living close to the Eastern Front. It identified cities along major train routes of the USSR in which people could be removed and taken quickly because they were easily accessible by railroad. As of September, three months following the invasion by the Nazis, the Evacuation Council had 128 centers identified and operating. Prominent city centers that received evacuated citizens (as well as other resources and industry) include Kirov, Iaroslavl, Gorky, Ufa, Sverdlovsk, Cheliabinsk, and Kuibyshev.\n\nFurther measures were instated by the Party in order to help dispersed evacuees settle in to life in their new location. Evacuees new to a city were instructed to contact the local authorities so that they could be accounted for. Following this, they received a certificate declaring their evacuee status and allowing them to receive lodgings, food rations, and temporary employment. Evacuees were told that they were allowed to bring personal belongings with them as long as it didn't hinder the authorities' abilities to get them from the evacuated site to the refuge center. Family members' belongings were not to exceed 40 kilograms in weight.\n\nAnother instruction from the Central Committee during the months of August and September was for regional governments to build temporary housing for the new-comers if there was not enough existing in that region already. This preceded the measure enacted in November when the Party agreed to establish an Evacuation Administration, thus taking the power out of the hands of regional authorities and centralizing it within the Communist Party. This led to offices of the said agency popping up throughout the evacuation center cities and regions so as to better regulate and look after the dispersed evacuees. The agents of the Evacuation Administration were in charge of making sure that the evacuees were being well taken care of in their new locations. An added concern, in addition to housing, employment, and food, was health care and child care. As of the early months of 1942, still under the one-year mark of being at war with Germany, the government in Moscow had already spent three billion rubles on the evacuation effort.\n\nAnother civilian population concern that came up after the German invasion was with a group of Soviet civilians who became a part of the evacuation, but were classified as deportees instead of evacuees. The Party feared that these deportees would switch loyalties and fight on the German side. The first of this process, that eventually affected as many as 3.3 million people made up of 52 different nationalities, was a decree published in 1941 that dealt with the removal of Volga Germans that sent them to Siberia and Kazakhstan, far away from the front lines of fighting between the Wehrmacht and Soviets. The rest of the evacuation of suspected-disloyal nationalities took place later in the war during the years of 1943 and 1944. Because the Volga Germans were one of two deported nationalities (the other being the Crimean Tatars) that were never returned to their homeland after the war had ended, modern historians interpret this as being within the parameters of an ethnic cleansing.\n\nThe Crimean Tatars are an exception to the rule set by the Party that deportation occurred because they suspected questionable nationalities would be pro-German. The Tatars were a Muslim minority and the Party suspected that they would choose their religion over the state. Historians often trace the Soviet persecution and elimination of the Tatars in Crimea even further back to the inner war years after the establishment of the Soviet state. It is reported that from 1917 to 1933 an estimated half of the Crimean Tatar population was eliminated, either by death or relocation.\n\nThe deported nationalities generally came from regions close to the Eastern Front and were settled in Kazakhstan and Central Asia during the war. In 1956, over a decade after the end of the Second World War, all of the groups besides the Volga Germans and the Crimean Tatars, were resettled in their native lands. Khrushchev would absolve all blame from the Germans during his time in command of the Communist Party. It is believed that they weren't permitted for resettlement because the area had already been settled by other Soviet civilians in the time since the war's end. The same belief is expressed in regards to why the Crimean Tatars were not granted resettlement as a part of the 1956 orders. However, the Crimean Tatar National Movement Organization organized during perestroika in the 1980s finally received word from the Soviet government that their people could return to Crimea. Since then, some 250,000 Crimean Tatars have returned and settled in what is now the independent Ukraine, following the collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\n\nThe speed of the initial German advance threatened not only Soviet territories and factories, civilian and military, but wholesale collapse of the nation's civilian economy. Even with 1930s contingency plans and the formation, in 1941, of evacuation committees, such as the Council for Evacuation and the State Department Committee (GKO), most evacuations were handled by local Soviet organizations that dealt with the industrial movements just ahead of impending German attacks.\n\nShort sighted preparation in the overall mobilization of the western front led many in these councils to scour Moscow libraries for any resources pertaining to evacuations during the first World War. Local committees eventually used the Five-Year Plan structure with 3,000 agents controlling the movement. Evacuation of industrial plants began in August 1941 and continued until the end of the year.\n\nThe GKO oversaw the relocation of more than 1500 plants of military importance to areas such as the Urals, Siberia, and Central Asia. These areas offered safety to its inhabitants due to its isolated locations that were not in reach of damaging Axis airstrikes, and they offered Soviet industries with a mass quantity of resources to field the factories and plants associated with the war effort. The Urals in central Russia fielded an impressive array of heavy iron and steel factories as well as agriculture and chemical plants. The Siberian industries relied on their coal mines and copper deposits in the Kuznetzk coal basin for continuing the support of the Soviet war machine.\n\nBut evidence shows that some evacuations, the transfer of machine tools and skilled workers to “shadow factories” in the east, began much earlier. The U.S. military attaché reported significant transfers of machines and men from the Moscow area to the east in late 1940 and early 1941. The rapid growth in production early in 1942 suggests that the evacuation started in 1940.\n\nThe word evacuation or \"evakuatsiia\" in 1941 was a somewhat new word that some described as “terrible and unaccustomed. For others, it was simply not used. \"Refugee\" or \"bezhenets\" was far too familiar given the country's history of war. During World War II refugee was replaced by evacuees.The shift in wording showed the government's resignation to the displacement of its citizens. The reasons for controlling the displaced population varied. Despite some preferring to consider themselves evacuees the term referred to different individuals. Some were of the “privileged elite\" class Those who fell under this category where scientist and specialized workers, artist, writers and politicians. These elite individuals were evacuated to the rear of the country. The other portion of the evacuated were meet with a suspicious eye. The evacuation process despite the Soviets best efforts, was far from organized. The state considered the majority of those heading east as suspicious. Since a large majority of the population were self evacuees they had not been assigned a location for displacement. Officials feared the disorder made it easy for deserters to flee. Evacuees who did not fall under the “privileged elite” title were are also suspected of potentially contaminating the rest of the population both epidemically and ideologically.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 20th century Russia had been engulfed in wars. If this war-bred society was taught anything it was the importance of mobilizing both its industry as well as civilian population. The Russian Civil War and World War 1 gave the Bolsheviks the experience to shape their future evacuation strategies. Preparation for future war started in the early 1920s but it wasn’t till the war scare of 1927 that they start developing defensive measures, these measures included evacuation policies. These policies were not formed as a humanitarian effort but as a way for the country to defend itself. They needed to avoid the past issues such as: hindrance of military movement, spread of disease, and demoralizing of units as well as strains on the economy. The Council of Labor and Defense was in charge of drafting these policies along with other Soviet administrations\n\nGerman Operation Barbarossa of 1941 resulted in millions of Russian evacuees. The exact number is hard to approximate since many evacuated themselves rather than by the states directive. Some put the number at about sixteen and a half million. One of the most welcome sights for refugees during the evacuations was Tashkent, capital of Uzbekistan, which eventually housed tens of thousands of refugees. However, due to the vast number of refugees the train stations were overcrowded and the distribution of train tickets could take days. Even with the war drawing to an end evacuee’s who were desperate to go back home where not granted permission. The re-evacuation policy was written around those not working in industry. These citizens lost their residence to their city of origin, therefore were not part of the re-evacuation process. Anybody who tried to return without consent faced jail time. Despite many roadblocks and issues the Soviet state managed to do what no other European country could: evacuating millions of its citizens to the safety of the rear.\n\nWith a shortage of labor, the Commissariat of Justice in conjunction with the Council of People’s Commissars forced evacuees to work in enterprises, organizations and on collective farms to help the war effort. Those chosen for the labor force were those deemed as socially unproductive. People who did not work for a set wage such as artist, writers and artisans were excluded from this new decree. Problems did arise with workers motivation to work. Some argued they would be going back home soon others were not happy with the wage they would receive arguing the government would give almost as much if they didn’t work.\n\nAs winter approached and the war intensified around Moscow the Moscow Oblast Committee of the Communist Party and the Executive Committee of the Moscow Oblast Council found it of great importance to evacuate women and children from the suburbs. They request to the Evacuation Council of the Soviet Council of Peoples Commissariats was as follows 300,000 • Assigned destinations • People Commissariat of Transportation was to transport the evacuees from the Moscow suburbs When it came to the evacuation of children officials were ill-prepared for the task. The children who were transported to Moscow were done so in barges which had no side railing. Subsequently, children would fall over board. First had accounts from children state that the boats had been previously used for the transportation of flour. Water was rarely given and when it was they were only allowed a few gulps from what was described as “putrid.” They slept on crowded floors. On one account a child wrote to his parents that he was eating well. He wrote about having bread and tea for breakfast, and for lunch he would eat cabbage soup.\n\nThe Soviet Union had added nearly 2,000,000 Jews to its population between 1939 and 1940. Many of these came from recently annexed Poland, but they came from other areas as well. After the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact the USSR and Germany each took over large portions of former countries, including Poland, the Baltic region, and Romania. In Romania, the USSR took mostly eastern portions, including Bessarabia and northern Bukovina. It is estimated that around 250,000 Jews were living in Bessarabia and Bukovina at the time. Another 120,000 Jews flowed into the newly annexed Bessarabia and Bukovina from the now Nazi occupied Romania. By the late spring of 1941 there were as many as 415,000 Jews living in Soviet controlled Bessarabia and Bukovina. Around 10,000 of these newly Soviet Jews were deported into the interior of Russia for various reasons, many of them ending up in the Red Army. There is evidence that the Soviet government made some efforts to incorporate these displaced Jewish citizens into Soviet society. The creation of the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee is one example of this. Many Jews living in the now Nazi occupied parts of Romania and Poland were not keen to move to Russia, whose policies toward religion did not favor them. Many underestimated the dangers of the impending Nazi war machine and paid the ultimate price. Many Jews that fled into Russia from Germany had a saying, \"better Stalin than Hitler\" There were as many as 3,000,000 Jews killed in The Soviet Union during World War II by the Einsatzgruppen. \n\nWhen Germany invaded Russia in 1941 most of the Jewish citizens living in these regions were murdered by the Nazis but some Jewish families fled east into Russia. While the Soviet Union did not keep records specifically relating to Jews, it is estimated that 300,000 Soviet citizens were evacuated from Moldavia to places like Kazakhstan. It is unknown how many of these citizens were Jewish. In February 1942 there were as many as 45,000 displaced Jewish citizens from the Moldavian region living in Uzbekistan. There were around 80,000 - 85,000 Jews from the Moldavian region displaced to each of the other Soviet states by early 1942.\n\nIn the face of the German advance and amidst the evacuations of industry and civilians, the Politburo made the decision to evacuate the embalmed body of Vladimir Lenin from its mausoleum in Red Square, where it had been on display since 1924.\n\nLenin’s body was removed in secret and sent far from the front lines and away from any industrial areas threatened by German bombers. The city of Tyumen, approximately 2,500 kilometers east of Moscow, was its chosen destination. In June 1941 Lenin’s body was encased in paraffin and placed in a wooden coffin that was then nested inside a larger wooden crate. Along with the body were sent chemicals and implements necessary for the continued preservation of the body. The crate was placed on a dedicated train secured by a selected group of Kremlin Guards. The body had its own private car and a personal guard around the clock. Additional soldiers were posted along the tracks and stations on the train’s route east.\n\nOn arrival in Tyumen the body was housed in a dilapidated building on the campus of the Tyumen Agricultural Institute. The conditions necessitated the acquisition of additional chemicals and distilled water from the city of Omsk, a further 600 kilometers east of Tyumen.\n\nLenin’s body was returned to Moscow in April 1945.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45193064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45193064", "title": "Fort William Mountain Festival", "text": "Fort William Mountain Festival\n\nThe Fort William Mountain Festival is an annual festival held in Fort William, Scotland. The festival, a \"celebration of mountain culture\", will run in 2015 from 18 to 22 February,\n\n"}
{"id": "57565681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57565681", "title": "Französisches Komödienhaus", "text": "Französisches Komödienhaus\n\nThe Französisches Komödienhaus or French Comedy House, was a theater in Berlin, active between 1774 to 1801. It was the first permanent \n\nPrior to 1742, Berlin was visited by travelling theater companies but had no permanent theater, until an opera house was founded by Frederick the Great that year. The opera house was only used by Italian opera performers, and there where plans to found a theater house for French language stage actors as well. A German language theater house, Döbbelinsches Theater, was active in the city from 1764, but French theater was the fashion and preferred by the monarch. The plans where finally realized in 1774 and the French theater was inaugurated in 1776. The French theater was primarily frequented by the nobility and royal court and much favored by the king. While its main rival, the German language Döbbelinsches Theater, was given no financial support at all by the king, he financed the French theater to great costs. In 1786, the successor of Frederick the Great, Frederick William II of Prussia, named the German language theater as royal theater and gave the localities of the former French theater to them, which was the beginning of a great age for German language theater in Berlin. \n\n"}
{"id": "11267727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11267727", "title": "Hey You (Madonna song)", "text": "Hey You (Madonna song)\n\n\"Hey You\" is a charity song written and recorded by American singer Madonna. She co-produced the song with Pharrell Williams for the Live Earth campaign. It was released digitally on May 24, 2007 and was available on the CD and DVD of the Live Earth concerts on December 4, 2007. Musically it is a stripped-down, folksy ballad with straightforward, anthem-like lyrics talking about how to save the world from destruction. The song received generally mixed reviews, with one group of reviewers commenting that the modest message of the song was uninspiring while others called the song sweet and commended Madonna's commitment to charity.\n\n\"Hey You\" was initially released as a free download for a period of seven days before being made available as a regular digital single. Once it had been released as a regular digital single, it entered the lower reaches of the sales charts of a few countries including the United Kingdom, Canada, Sweden and Switzerland. Madonna only performed the song once at the Live Earth concert, London, where she was joined by a choir of school children who provided backing vocals to her singing while the backdrops displayed images relevant to the song's message, like natural devastations, different cultures and political leaders.\n\n\"Hey You\" was written by Madonna, who also co-produced it along with Pharrell Williams in honor of the 2007 Live Earth concert in London. It was inspired by the climate change campaign. It became Madonna's first released material to be written entirely by herself since \"Gambler\" (1985). Live Earth was a music event that brought together more than hundred headlining artists in a series of concerts, two billion people and launched a mass movement to combat climate crisis. The concerts took place in cities like New York, London, Sydney, Tokyo, Shanghai, Rio de Janeiro etc. It marked the beginning of a multi-year campaign led by The Alliance for Climate Protection to move individuals, corporations and governments to take action. The song was made available to be downloaded in MP3 and WMA formats on MSN's Live Earth website. Microsoft pledged to donate $0.25 per download to the \"Alliance for Global Climate Change\" society for the first million downloads of the track. Live Earth founder Kevin Wall said in a statement, \"We are thrilled that Madonna donated her art to Live Earth and is a part of this movement for us.\"\n\n\"Hey You\" is a stripped-down, straightforward mid-tempo ballad with influences of folk in it and features lyrics like \"Hey you/ Don't you give up/ It's not so bad/ There's still a chance for us.\" The lyric conveys the message that purifying your own soul can open the way, by which one can change the mind of others. According to \"The New York Times\", the lyrics have straightforward, anthem-like meaning with lines like \"You can change someone else/Then you have saved someone else/ But you must first love yourself.\" Daryl Davis from Blogcritics felt that \"Hey You\" is about making the world a better place. The song begins with the sound of acoustic guitars, leading to an instrumental chorus, which according to Davis, is \"simple and touching\".\n\nSarah Hall from \"E! Online\" called the song to be unlikely inspiring to the listeners to hit the dance floor. Jon Pareles from \"The New York Times\", while reviewing the Live Earth concert in London, said that the song and its lyrics like \"Don’t you give up/it’s not so bad\" are not exactly eloquent. While reviewing Madonna's album \"Hard Candy\", he commented that \"Hey You\" failed to be the equivalent of Madonna's cover version of John Lennon's song \"Imagine\". He also noted that \"[t]he song came and went, raising some corporate donations\". Alessandra Stanley from \"The New York Times\" commented that the song had a modest message with lines like \"Don't you give up/it's not so bad/there's still a chance for us.\"\n\nMichael Hirschorn from \"The Atlantic Monthly\" said that the song was proof that Madonna's heart was in the right place. Responses from the Madonna fansites were also mixed with some fans decrying the track's message as overly sentimental and the lyrics as weak, while others defended the song as \"sweet\" and \"not that bad,\" while commending the singer's commitment to charity. Daryl D from Blogcritics felt that \"even if the lyrics are slightly clichéd, Madonna gives her best vocal performance since the \"Evita\" years and adds feeling when the lyrics falter... The production on this record is outstanding. It also proves that Madonna brings more to the table on her own records than her critics give her credit for because this sounds absolutely nothing like a song Pharrell Williams would produce. The acoustic guitars at the beginning lead to an instrumental chorus that is simple and touching.\"\n\n\"Hey You\" was promoted through the official Live Earth website and the July 7, 2007 concert in London. There was no physical single released. However, it managed to chart in countries like Canada, Sweden and Switzerland in its second week of release based purely on paid downloads. In Canada the song entered for one week on the Canadian Hot 100 chart at position fifty-seven and was present for one week only. In Switzerland, it entered the chart at number 60, but fell down to number 91 the next week. The song started climbing up again and ultimately reached a peak of number 55 on the chart issue dated September 2, 2007. \"Hey You\" was present on the chart for a total of seven weeks. It debuted on the Swedish Singles Chart at number 58 and reached a peak of 57, being present on the chart for three weeks. The song was also able to chart at the lower positions of the UK Singles Chart, at number 187 based on downloads. In the Czech Republic, it reached the top ten and peaked at number nine on the airplay charts. \"Hey You\" also entered on the Digital charts of Italy, reaching a peak of number 36 in its fourth week. In the United States, the song sold 3,000 digital downloads after it was made purchasable-only on iTunes Store. The song was not eligible to chart on Hot Digital Songs since free downloads are not applicable in the chart per \"Billboard\" and Nielsen SoundScan.\n\nOn May 17, 2007, Warner Bros. Records announced Madonna as one of the seventeen headliners performing at Wembley Stadium for the London stop of the Live Earth concerts. It is still the only venue where Madonna has performed the song. Madonna's set list was the last performance of the London leg before the concert moved to New York City. \"Hey You\" was the first of the set list which consisted of a total of four songs. It was also used as the bridging music between the bands performing at Wembley. The performance started with the symbolic turning-off of lights of the stadium which plunged it into darkness except for the lights on the stage and that from the cameras. Actor Terence Stamp who compered the show, declared \"Let’s not be endarkened by this, let's be enlighteened by this. Let it be the beginning of an adventure!\" Madonna came out on the stage wearing a black satin leotard accompanied by a long line of children in school uniform. The children were compared to the Hogwarts school choir from the \"Harry Potter\" series by \"The New York Times\".\n\nMadonna started singing the song while holding the amplifier in her hand. The backdrop imitated the song's message by displaying a procession of images of environmental devastations like fires, nuclear power plants, suffering animals—which altered with images of visionary leaders like Nelson Mandela, Aung San Suu Kyi, Mahatma Gandhi, and current political leaders like George W. Bush, Gordon Brown and Nicolas Sarkozy. The video progressed to display the image of underdressed but nonetheless festive African children tossing a globe into the air, where it resolved into an image of the Earth as seen from space. The idea of the video was to transpose the images of the world leaders with natural disasters. The lyrics of the song were also projected as supertitles. Backing vocals were provided by the children. The performance ended with Madonna and the kids coming in front of the stage and saluting the crowd.\n\n"}
{"id": "58564321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58564321", "title": "Indonesia Fair", "text": "Indonesia Fair\n\nIndonesia Fair () is a fair held annually. The goal of the fair is to promote the growth of the economy of Indonesia through the MICE industry (meeting, incentive, convention, and exhibition ). The fair features exhibitions, trade promotions, shopping, music performances, various shows, amusement rides and a food festival. Pekan Raya Indonesia (old spelling Pekan Raja Indonesia), or Indonesia Fair, was held for three consecutive years between 1953 and 1955. Then after a long gap it is being held every year at ICE at BSD City, in Greater Jakarta, Indonesia since 2016. The fair is usually held in the month of September and October.\nThe first Pekan Raya Indonesia was held between 29 August to 4 October 1953, officially known as \"The First Indonesian International Trade & Industrial Fair\". China was the main international exhibitor. It was held on the site where Atma Jaya University now stands, on what is then called Kebayoran Road (now Jalan Jendral Sudirman).\n\nThe second Pekan Raya Indonesia in 1954. The main international exhibitor was Soviet Union.\n\nThe third Pekan Raya Indonesia was held in 1955 and the United States was the main international exhibitor. Leading US companies such as Ford, General Motors, Caterpillar, Goodyear, RCA and Pan Am took part in the fair. Holiday on Ice was first introduced to Indonesia through the Pekan Raya Indonesia 1955, whose performance in Jakarta was attended by then First Lady of USA, Eleanor Roosevelt. Among other notable features of the fair was the \"Stand Televisi\" (\"television stand\"), among the first introduction of a true color television to Indonesia.\n\nIn 2016, PRI was held with the concept of 1,000 bands, 1,000 culinary tastes of the archipelago heritage, and a variety of family games that last from October 20 to November 6 2016.\n\nThe 2017 Indonesian Fair (PRI) was held from October 21 to November 5, 2017, with a concept of richer Indonesian culture, starting from musical concert, culture, culinary, shopping, to multi-scale exhibitions.\n\n2018 Indonesia Fair was held from September 27 to October 7, participated by 600 tenants with more than 2,000 trademarks. Participants ranges from property, automotive, fashion, food and beverage, and electronics sectors as well as creative businesses and small and medium enterprises. International Indie Music Festival (IIMF) was arranged as part of the festival.\n"}
{"id": "12220789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12220789", "title": "Interfront", "text": "Interfront\n\nInterfront was a pro-communist political movement that aimed to preserve the Soviet Union as a unified Marxist–Leninist state and strongly opposed the pro-independence movements in the republics. It had branches in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Moldova.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43828216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43828216", "title": "International recognition of Bangladesh", "text": "International recognition of Bangladesh\n\nThe Bangladesh Liberation War ( \"Muktijuddho\") was a revolutionary independence war in South Asia during 1971 which established the republic of Bangladesh. The war pitted East Pakistan against West Pakistan, and lasted over a duration of nine months. It witnessed large-scale atrocities, the exodus of 10 million refugees and the displacement of 30 million people.\n\nThe war broke out on 26 March 1971, when the Pakistani Army launched a military operation called Operation Searchlight against Bengali civilians, students, intelligentsia and armed personnel, who were demanding that the Pakistani military junta accept the results of the 1970 first democratic elections of Pakistan, which were won by an eastern party, or to allow separation between East and West Pakistan. Bengali politicians and army officers announced the declaration of Bangladesh's independence in response to Operation Searchlight. Bengali military, paramilitary and civilians formed the Mukti Bahini ( \"Liberation Army\"), which engaged in guerrilla warfare against Pakistani forces. The Pakistan Army, in collusion with religious extremist militias (the Razakars, Al-Badr and Al-Shams), engaged in the systematic genocide and atrocities of Bengali civilians, particularly nationalists, intellectuals, youth and religious minorities. Bangladesh government-in-exile was set up in the city of Calcutta (now Kolkata) in the Indian State of West Bengal.\n\nIndia entered the war on 3 December 1971, after Pakistan launched pre-emptive air strikes on northern India. Overwhelmed by two war fronts, Pakistani defences soon collapsed. On 16 December, the Allied Forces of Bangladesh and India defeated Pakistan in the east. The subsequent surrender resulted in the largest number of prisoners-of-war since World War II.\n\nThough the United Nations condemned the human rights violations during and following Operation Searchlight, it failed to defuse the situation politically before the start of the war.\n\nFollowing Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's declaration of independence in March 1971, India undertook a worldwide campaign to drum up political, democratic and humanitarian support for the people of Bangladesh for their liberation struggle. Prime Minister Indira Gandhi toured a large number of countries in a bid to create awareness of the Pakistani atrocities against Bengalis. This effort was to prove vital later during the war, in framing the world's context of the war and to justify military action by India. Also, following Pakistan's defeat, it ensured prompt recognition of the newly independent state of Bangladesh.\n\nFollowing India's entry into the war, Pakistan, fearing certain defeat, made urgent appeals to the United Nations to intervene and force India to agree to a cease fire. The UN Security Council assembled on 4 December 1971 to discuss the hostilities in South Asia. After lengthy discussions on 7 December, the United States made a resolution for \"immediate cease-fire and withdrawal of troops\". While supported by the majority, the USSR vetoed the resolution twice and the United Kingdom and France abstained on the resolution.\n\nOn 12 December, with Pakistan facing imminent defeat, the United States requested that the Security Council be reconvened. Pakistan's Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, was rushed to New York City to make the case for a resolution on the cease fire. The council continued deliberations for four days. By the time proposals were finalised, Pakistan's forces in the East had surrendered and the war had ended, making the measures merely academic. Bhutto, frustrated by the failure of the resolution and the inaction of the United Nations, ripped up his speech and left the council.\n\nMost UN member nations were quick to recognise Bangladesh within months of its independence.\n\nBhutan became the first country in the world (second India) to recognise the newly independent state on 6 December 1971. Muhammad Ullah, the 3rd President of Bangladesh visited Bhutan accompanied by his wife to attend the coronation of Jigme Singye Wangchuck, the fourth King of Bhutan in June 1974.\n\nThe United States supported Pakistan both politically and materially. US President Richard Nixon denied getting involved in the situation, saying that it was an internal matter of Pakistan, but when Pakistan's defeat seemed certain, Nixon sent the aircraft carrier USS \"Enterprise\" to the Bay of Bengal, a move deemed by the Indians as a nuclear threat. \"Enterprise\" arrived on station on 11 December 1971. On 6 and 13 December, the Soviet Navy dispatched two groups of ships, armed with nuclear missiles, from Vladivostok; they trailed US Task Force 74 in the Indian Ocean from 18 December until 7 January 1972.\n\nNixon and Henry Kissinger feared Soviet expansion into South and Southeast Asia. Pakistan was a close ally of the People's Republic of China, with whom Nixon had been negotiating a \"rapprochement\" and which he intended to visit in February 1972. Nixon feared that an Indian invasion of West Pakistan would mean total Soviet domination of the region, and that it would seriously undermine the global position of the United States and the regional position of America's new tacit ally, China. To demonstrate to China the \"bona fides\" of the United States as an ally, and in direct violation of the US Congress-imposed sanctions on Pakistan, Nixon sent military supplies to Pakistan and routed them through Jordan and Iran, while also encouraging China to increase its arms supplies to Pakistan. The Nixon administration also ignored reports it received of the genocidal activities of the Pakistani Army in East Pakistan, most notably the Blood telegram.\n\nThe Soviet Union supported Bangladesh and Indian armies, as well as the Mukti Bahini during the war, recognising that the independence of Bangladesh would weaken the position of its rivals – the United States and China. It gave assurances to India that if a confrontation with the United States or China developed, the USSR would take countermeasures. This was enshrined in the Indo-Soviet friendship treaty signed in August 1971. The Soviets also sent a nuclear submarine to ward off the threat posed by USS \"Enterprise\" in the Indian Ocean.\n\nAt the end of the war, the Warsaw Pact countries were among the first to recognise Bangladesh. The Soviet Union accorded recognition to Bangladesh on 25 January 1972. The United States delayed recognition for some months, before according it on 8 April 1972.\n\nAs a long-standing ally of Pakistan, the People's Republic of China reacted with alarm to the evolving situation in East Pakistan and the prospect of India invading West Pakistan and Pakistani-controlled Kashmir. Believing that just such an Indian attack was imminent, Nixon encouraged China to mobilise its armed forces along its border with India to discourage it. The Chinese did not, however, respond to this encouragement, because unlike the 1962 Sino-Indian War when India was caught entirely unaware, this time the Indian Army was prepared and had deployed eight mountain divisions to the Sino-Indian border to guard against such an eventuality. China instead threw its weight behind demands for an immediate ceasefire.\n\nWhen Bangladesh applied for membership to the United Nations in 1972, China vetoed their application because two United Nations resolutions regarding the repatriation of Pakistani prisoners of war and civilians had not yet been implemented. China was also among the last countries to recognise independent Bangladesh, refusing to do so until 31 August 1975.\n"}
{"id": "31774937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31774937", "title": "Lady Gaga's meat dress", "text": "Lady Gaga's meat dress\n\nAt the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards, American singer Lady Gaga wore a dress made of raw beef, which was commonly referred to by the media as the meat dress. Designed by Franc Fernandez and styled by Nicola Formichetti, the dress was condemned by animal rights groups, and named by \"Time\" as the top fashion statement of 2010.\n\nThe press speculated on the originality of the meat dress idea, with comparisons made to similar images found in contemporary art and popular culture. As with her other dresses, it was archived, but went on display in 2011 at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame after being preserved by taxidermists as a type of jerky. Gaga explained following the awards ceremony that the dress was a statement about one's need to fight for what one believes in, and highlighted her distaste for the US military's don't-ask-don't-tell policy.\n\nGaga was the most nominated artist at 2010's Video Music Awards with a record thirteen nominations, including two nods for Video of the Year (the first female artist to achieve this feat). She arrived in an Alexander McQueen dress and changed into a Giorgio Armani number before donning her third and final outfit of the evening: a dress, hat, boots, and purse made of raw meat. Gaga wore the meat dress to accept her Video of the Year trophy for \"Bad Romance\"; as she accepted the award from presenter Cher, she joked, \"I never thought I'd be asking Cher to hold my meat purse.\" Gaga continued to wear the dress after the awards show for press photos and an interview on \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\". Gaga explained her interpretation of the dress to DeGeneres, stating, \"If we don’t stand up for what we believe in and if we don’t fight for our rights[,] pretty soon we’re going to have as much rights as the meat on our bones.\" \"Now, I love Lady Gaga, but as someone who also loves animals, it was really difficult for me to sit next to Lady Gaga while she was wearing that outfit,\" DeGeneres, who is vegan, later wrote. \"But it did make me ask myself, what's the difference between her outfit and an outfit made of leather?\"\n\nFernandez was approached by fellow designer and stylist Formichetti to produce the dress, with it planned out over the course of a week, Formichetti having styled the look. The dress was asymmetrical, with a cowled–neck. Fernandez specifically chose cuts to ensure that the dress kept well. Flank steak was chosen as the material to use, with the meat coming from his family butcher. The dress required Gaga to be stitched into the outfit backstage.\n\nFernandez said of his design, \"I knew the dress would be one of other amazing pieces Gaga wore that night. It's very well made and looked great on her, on and off camera. We didn't get a chance to have a fitting. The only time she had it on was for the VMAs. Only when I saw it in the monitor did I know it would be big.\"\n\nFernandez reporting Gaga's opinion in an interview said that Gaga herself said it smelled good, because it smelled like meat. The designer talked of what was to happen to the dress after the awards show, \"The dress will be put in an archive with all of her dresses. The Gaga Archives, I suppose. It won't last, that's the beauty of it. When it is brought out again, hopefully it will be in a retrospective, and it will be a different dress, which is the best thing. I like the idea of it changing and evolving into something else\". He later explained that the dress would be preserved and made into a type of jerky before being archived.\n\nThe Rock and Roll Hall of Fame paid $6,000 to taxidermist Sergio Vigilato to preserve the dress. It had been frozen following the two television appearances, although Vigilato discovered signs of decomposition on the dress which had occurred prior to it being frozen, and noted it was emitting an odor once it was defrosted. It was treated with bleach, formaldehyde and detergent to kill any bacteria which had formed, and was reconditioned by being dyed dark red once it was preserved so to give it the same appearance as when first worn. However, after the preservation there were several pieces of beef left over and not included in the reworked dress.\n\nGaga wore a faux-meat dress while performing the songs \"Americano\" and \"Poker Face\" during her Born This Way Ball tour.\n\nPreviously, she had worn a bikini made of meat on the front cover of the Japanese edition of \"Vogue\". It was originally worn by Gaga at the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards to accept her award for Video of the Year. Although it was Gaga's third costume change of the evening, the meat dress was immediately described as \"most outrageous fashion moment\" of the evening.\n\nFernandez credits the dress with an upturn in his career, saying, \"I feel like I have a voice now as an artist and as a designer\". He had previously created items for Gaga, including a costume for her music video for \"Bad Romance\". He went on to create a hat that Gaga wore to the 53rd Grammy Awards in February 2011.\n\nThe dress went on display at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum in 2011 as part of an exhibition entitled \"Women Who Rock: Vision, Passion, Power\".\n\nA poll by website MyCelebrityFashion.co.uk placed the dress as the most iconic outfit of 2010, beating Kate Middleton's engagement dress into second place. In summing up 2010 through a series of lists, \"Time\" voted the meat dress as its top fashion statement of 2010.\n\nWhen \"Weird Al\" Yankovic did a parody of Gaga's \"Born This Way\", titled \"Perform This Way\", he included a lyrical reference to the meat dress (\"I strap prime rib to my feet / Cover myself with raw meat / I'll bet you've never seen a skirt steak worn this way\") and had a dancer dressed in a similar outfit in the music video.\n\nFollowing the VMAs, media outlets attempted to analyse the meaning of the dress with suggestions by BBC News ranging from anti-fashion, to feminism, aging and decay, and society's attitude towards meat. Chef Fergus Henderson explained this meat attitude as \"People often don't want meat to look like meat. They want it to be neatly wrapped in plastic from a supermarket.\" People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) condemned the dress, releasing a statement that said \"wearing a dress made from cuts of dead cows is offensive enough to bring comment, but someone should whisper in her ear that more people are upset by butchery than are impressed by it.\" The Vegetarian Society also condemned the dress, releasing a statement that said \"No matter how beautifully it is presented, flesh from a tortured animal is flesh from a tortured animal. Enough animals die for food and they should not be killed for stunts like this.\"\n\nAnother controversy surrounding the dress was the question of its originality. Brooks Barnes of \"The New York Times\" wrote that the dress was \"derived\" from \"Incarnation\", a painting of a white-haired girl wearing a meat dress by artist Mark Ryden. Sharon Clott of MTV also noted the similarity between Gaga's dress and Ryden's painting. Ryden was reportedly upset that Gaga did not acknowledge that she took inspiration from his work. Some in the art and fashion press remarked on the dress' similarity to , a meat dress made by Canadian sculptor Jana Sterbak in 1987 exhibited to considerable controversy at the National Gallery of Canada in 1991. Karen Rosenberg from \"The New York Times\" compared the dress to a series of photographs of Francis Bacon posing with sides of beef attached to his torso like wings in 1952, while \"The Daily Telegraph\" compared the dress to the original cover of The Beatles' 1966 album \"Yesterday and Today\", and noted its similarity to the cover of the November 1983 The Undertones album \"All Wrapped Up\", which showed a female model wearing a dress and gloves made of cuts of meat (mostly bacon) held in place with plastic wrap and a sausage necklace. Architects Diller Scofidio + Renfro had also designed a meat dress in 2006. An earlier example of a garment made from meat stitched together in the same way as the Lady Gaga meat dress was worn at the Slade School of Art postgraduate degree exhibition opening in London, England in July 1979, when performance artist Robert Connolly wore a two-piece suit made of slices of salami.\n\nSome media sources proposed that the dress could be interpreted as anti-vegan. Vegetarian singer Morrissey stated that he felt the dress was acceptable as long as it was a social or political statement, and not just a \"loony idea\", pointing out that artist Linder Sterling had previously worn a meat dress in 1982 to protest against what she believed to be the perception of women by men. Ellen DeGeneres presented Gaga with a bikini made of vegetables when the singer appeared on her talk show, and the singer used the platform to respond to the controversy surrounding the dress saying, \"... it has many interpretations. For me this evening, if we don't stand up for what we believe in and if we don't fight for our rights pretty soon, we're going to have as much rights as the meat on our own bones. And, I am not a piece of meat.\" She explained further that she was also using the dress to highlight her distaste for the US military's \"don't ask, don't tell\" policy.\n"}
{"id": "37323769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37323769", "title": "Legends – voices of rock", "text": "Legends – voices of rock\n\nLegends – voices of rock is a constellation where several legendary lead singers perform their biggest hits.\n\nConstellation varies, included artists are Grammy award-winning and platinum selling stars like Bobby Kimball (original lead singer of Toto), Steve Augeri (ex Journey), Joe Lynn Turner (ex Rainbow, Deep Purple), Bill Champlin (formerly of Chicago), Fergie Frederiksen (ex Toto), Bruce Kulick (ex Kiss), Robin Beck and more.\n\nFirst Legends tour was Japan, June 2012, with shows in Nagoya, Osaka and Tokyo.\n\nThe Legends project was presented to the Swedish audience live on national TV4.\n\nBehind the project are the two well-known Swedish guitar players, Tommy Denander and Sayit Dölen.\nTommy Denander is a Grammy award nominated world-famous guitarist. He has played on more than 2000 albums with superstars like Michael Jackson, Alice Cooper, Paul Stanley, Ricky Martin, Celine Dion, Peter Cetera, BB King, Carlos Santana and many more.\nSayit Dölen has a long career of studio and live work with stars like Enrique Iglesias, Yngwie Malmsteen, Jimi Jamison, Bobby Kimball, Katie Melua and many more.\n\nTop musicians are handpicked for the Legends band in a serious effort to play the hits true to the originals.\n\n"}
{"id": "195173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195173", "title": "Liliʻuokalani", "text": "Liliʻuokalani\n\nLiliʻuokalani (; born Lydia Liliʻu Loloku Walania Kamakaʻeha; September 2, 1838 – November 11, 1917) was the first queen regnant and the last sovereign monarch of the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi, ruling from January 29, 1891, until the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi on January 17, 1893. The composer of \"Aloha ʻOe\" and numerous other works, she wrote her autobiography \"Hawaiʻi's Story by Hawaiʻi's Queen\" during her imprisonment following the overthrow.\n\nLiliʻuokalani was born on September 2, 1838, in Honolulu, on the island of Oʻahu. While her natural parents were Analea Keohokālole and Caesar Kapaʻakea, she was \"hānai\" (informally adopted) at birth by Abner Pākī and Laura Kōnia and raised with their daughter Bernice Pauahi Bishop. Baptized as a Christian and educated at the Royal School, she and her siblings and cousins were proclaimed eligible for the throne by King Kamehameha III. She was married to American-born John Owen Dominis, who later became the Governor of Oʻahu. The couple had no biological children but adopted several. After the accession of her brother David Kalākaua to the throne in 1874, she and her siblings were given Western style titles of Prince and Princess. In 1877, after her younger brother Leleiohoku II's death, she was proclaimed as heir apparent to the throne. During the Golden Jubilee of Queen Victoria, she represented her brother as an official envoy to the United Kingdom.\n\nLiliʻuokalani ascended to the throne on January 29, 1891, nine days after her brother's death. During her reign, she attempted to draft a new constitution which would restore the power of the monarchy and the voting rights of the economically disenfranchised. Threatened by her attempts to abrogate the Bayonet Constitution, pro-American elements in Hawaiʻi overthrew the monarchy on January 17, 1893. The overthrow was bolstered by the landing of US Marines under John L. Stevens to protect American interests, which rendered the monarchy unable to protect itself.\n\nThe coup d'état established the Republic of Hawaiʻi, but the ultimate goal was the annexation of the islands to the United States, which was temporarily blocked by President Grover Cleveland. After an unsuccessful uprising to restore the monarchy, the oligarchical government placed the former queen under house arrest at the ʻIolani Palace. On January 24, 1895, Liliʻuokalani was forced to abdicate the Hawaiian throne, officially ending the deposed monarchy. Attempts were made to restore the monarchy and oppose annexation, but with the outbreak of the Spanish–American War, the United States annexed Hawaiʻi. Living out the remainder of her later life as a private citizen, Liliʻuokalani died at her residence, Washington Place, in Honolulu on November 11, 1917.\n\nLiliʻuokalani was born Lydia Liliʻu Loloku Walania Kamakaʻeha on September 2, 1838, to the Analea Keohokālole and Caesar Kapaʻakea. She was born in the large grass hut of her maternal grandfather, ʻAikanaka, at the base of Punchbowl Crater in Honolulu on the island of Oʻahu. According to Hawaiian custom, she was named after an event linked to her birth. At the time she was born, \"Kuhina Nui\" (regent) Elizabeth Kīnaʻu had developed an eye infection. She named the child using the words; \"liliʻu\" (smarting), \"loloku\" (tearful), \"walania\" (a burning pain) and \"kamakaʻeha\" (sore eyes). Upon her baptism by Reverend Levi Chamberlain, she was given the Christian name Lydia.\nHer family were of the aliʻi class of the Hawaiian nobility and were collateral relations of the reigning House of Kamehameha, sharing common descent from the 18th-century \"aliʻi nui\" (supreme monarch) Keaweʻīkekahialiʻiokamoku. From her biological parents, she descended from Keaweaheulu and Kameʻeiamoku, two of the five royal counselors of Kamehameha I during his conquest of the Kingdom of Hawaii. Kameʻeiamoku, the grandfather of both her mother and father, was depicted, along with his royal twin Kamanawa, on the Hawaiian coat of arms. Liliʻuokalani referred to her family line as the \"Keawe-a-Heulu line\" after her mother's line. The third surviving child of a large family, her biological siblings included: James Kaliokalani, David Kalākaua, Anna Kaʻiulani, Kaʻiminaʻauao, Miriam Likelike and William Pitt Leleiohoku II. She and her siblings were \"hānai\" (informally adopted) to other family members. The Hawaiian custom of \"hānai\" is an informal form of adoption between extended families practiced by Hawaiian royals and commoners alike. She was given at birth to Abner Pākī and his wife Laura Kōnia and raised with their daughter Bernice Pauahi.\n\nIn 1842, at the age of four, she began her education at the Chiefs' Children's School (later known as the Royal School). She, along with her classmates, had been formally proclaimed by Kamehameha III as eligible for the throne of the Kingdom of Hawaii. Liliʻuokalani later noted that these \"pupils were exclusively persons whose claims to the throne were acknowledged.\" She, along with her two older brothers James Kaliokalani and David Kalākaua, and her thirteen royal cousins, was taught in English by American missionaries Amos Starr Cooke and his wife, Juliette Montague Cooke. The children were taught reading, spelling, penmanship, arithmetic, geometry, algebra, physics, geography, history, bookkeeping, singing and English composition by the missionary couple who had to control the moral and sexual development of their charges. Liliʻuokalani was placed in the youngest section of the class with Princess Victoria Kamāmalu, Mary Polly Paʻaʻāina, and John William Pitt Kīnaʻu. In later life, Liliʻuokalani would look back unfavorably on her early education remembering being \"sent hungry to bed\" and the 1848 measles epidemic that claimed the life of a classmate Moses Kekūāiwa and her younger sister Kaʻiminaʻauao. The boarding school run by the Cookes was discontinued around 1850, so she, along with her former classmate Victoria, was sent to the relocated day school (also called Royal School) run by Reverend Edward G. Beckwith. On May 5, 1853, she finished third in her class with Victoria and Nancy Sumner in the final exams. In 1865, after her marriage, she informally attended Oʻahu College (modern day Punahou School) and received instruction under Susan Tolman Mills, who later cofounded Mills College in California.\n\nAfter the boarding school was discontinued in 1850, Liliʻuokalani lived with her \"hānai\" parents at Haleʻākala, which she referred to in later life as her childhood home. Around this time, her \"hānai\" sister Pauahi married the American Charles Reed Bishop against the wishes of their parents but reconciled with them shortly before Pākī's death in 1855. Kōnia died two years afterward and Liliʻuokalani came under the Bishops' guardianship. During this period, Liliʻuokalani became a part of the young social elite under the reign of Kamehameha IV who ascended to the throne in 1855. In 1856, Kamehameha IV announced his intent to marry Emma Rooke, one of their classmates. However, according to Liliʻuokalani, certain elements of the court argued \"there is no other chief equal to you in birth and rank but the adopted daughter of Paki,\" which infuriated the King and brought the Queen to tears. Despite this upset, Liliʻuokalani was regarded as a close friend of the new Queen, and she served as a maid of honor during the royal wedding alongside Princess Victoria Kamāmalu and Mary Pitman. At official state occasions, she served as an attendant and lady-in-waiting in Queen Emma's retinue. Visiting British dignitaries Lady Franklin and her niece Sophia Cracroft noted in 1861 that the \"Honble. Lydia Paki\" was \"the highest unmarried woman in the Kingdom\".\n\nMarriage consideration had begun early on for her. American merchant Gorham D. Gilman, a houseguest of the Pākīs, had courted her unsuccessfully when she was fifteen. Around the time of Kōnia's final illness in 1857, Liliʻuokalani was briefly engaged to William Charles Lunalilo. They shared an interest in music composition and had known each other from childhood. He had been betrothed from birth to Princess Victoria, the king's sister, but disagreements with her brothers prevented the marriage from materializing. Thus, Lunalilo proposed to Liliʻuokalani during a trip to Lahaina to be with Kōnia. A short-lived dual engagement occurred in which Liliʻuokalani was matched to Lunalilo and her brother Kalakaua to Princess Victoria. She ultimately broke off the engagement because of the urging of King Kamehameha IV and the opposition of the Bishops to the union. Afterward, she became romantically involved with the American-born John Owen Dominis, a staff member for Prince Lot Kapuāiwa (the future Kamehameha V) and secretary to King Kamehameha IV. Dominis was the son of Captain John Dominis, of Trieste, and Mary Lambert Jones, of Boston. According to Liliʻuokalani's memoir, they had known each other from childhood when he watched the royal children from a school next to the Cookes'. During a court excursion, Dominis escorted her home despite falling from his horse and breaking his leg.\nFrom 1860 to 1862, Liliʻuokalani and Dominis were engaged with the wedding set on her twenty-fourth birthday. This was postponed to September 16, 1862, out of respect for the death of Prince Albert Kamehameha, son of Kamehameha IV and Queen Emma. The wedding was held at Haleʻākala, the residence of the Bishops. The ceremony was officiated by Reverend Samuel Chenery Damon in the Anglican rites. Her bridemaids were her former classmates Elizabeth Kekaʻaniau and Martha Swinton. King Kamehameha IV and other members of the royal family were honored guests. The couple moved into the Dominises' residence, Washington Place in Honolulu. Through his wife and connections with the king, Dominis would later become Governor of Oʻahu and Maui. The union was reportedly an unhappy one with much gossip about Dominis' infidelities and domestic strife between Liliʻuokalani and Dominis' mother Mary who disapproved of the marriage of her son with a Hawaiian. They never had any children of their own, but, against the wish of her husband, Liliʻuokalani adopted three \"hānai\" children: Lydia Kaʻonohiponiponiokalani Aholo, the daughter of a family friend; Joseph Kaiponohea ʻAeʻa, the son of a retainer; and John ʻAimoku Dominis, her husband's son.\n\nAfter her marriage, she retained her position in the court circle of Kamehameha IV and later his brother and successor Kamehameha V. She assisted Queen Emma and King Kamehameha IV in raising funds to build The Queen's Hospital. In 1864, she and Pauahi helped Princess Victoria established the Kaʻahumanu Society, a female-led organization aimed at the relief of the elderly and the ill. At the request of Kamehameha V, she composed \"He Mele Lāhui Hawaiʻi\" in 1866 as the new Hawaiian national anthem. This was in use until replaced by her brother's composition \"Hawaiʻi Ponoʻī\". During the 1869 visit of Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh and the \"Galatea\", she entertained the British prince with a traditional Hawaiian luau at her Waikiki residence of Hamohamo.\n\nWhen Kamehameha V died in 1872 with no heir, the 1864 Constitution of the Kingdom of Hawaii called for the legislature to elect the next monarch. Following a non-binding referendum and subsequent unanimous vote in the legislature, Lunalilo became the first elected king of Hawaii. Lunalilo died without an heir in 1874. In the election that followed, Liliʻuokalani's brother, David Kalākaua, ran against Emma, the dowager queen of Kamehameha IV. The choice of Kalākaua by the legislature, and the subsequent announcement, caused a riot at the courthouse. US and British troops were landed, and some of Emma's supporters were arrested. The results of the election strained the relationship between Emma and the Kalākaua family.\n\nAfter his accession, Kalākaua gave royal titles and styles to his surviving siblings, his sisters, Princess Lydia Kamakaʻeha Dominis and Princess Miriam Likelike Cleghorn, as well as his brother William Pitt Leleiohoku, whom he named heir to the Hawaiian throne as Kalākaua and Queen Kapiʻolani had no children of their own. Leleiohoku died without an heir in 1877. Leleiohoku's \"hānai\" (adoptive) mother, Ruth Keʻelikōlani, wanted to be named heir, but the king's cabinet ministers objected as that would place Bernice Pauahi Bishop, Ruth's first cousin, next in line. This would put the Kamehamehas back in succession to the throne again, which Kalākaua did not wish. On top of that, Kalākaua's court genealogists had already cast doubt on Ruth's direct lineage, and in doing so placed doubt on Bernice's. At noon on April 10, Liliʻuokalani became the newly designated heir apparent to the throne of Hawaii. It was at this time that Kalākaua had her name changed to \"Liliʻuokalani\" (the \"smarting of the royal ones\"), replacing her given name of Liliʻu and her baptismal name of Lydia. In 1878, Liliʻuokalani and Dominis sailed to California for her health. They stayed in San Francisco and Sacramento where she visited the Crocker Art Museum.\n\nDuring Kalākaua's 1881 world tour, Liliʻuokalani served as Regent in his absence. It was during this regency that Liliʻuokalani visited the leper settlement at Kalaupapa on Molokaʻi in September. She was too overcome to speak and John Makini Kapena, one of her brother's ministers, had to address the people on her behalf. After the visit, in the name of her brother, Liliʻuokalani made Father Damien a knight commander of the Royal Order of Kalākaua for his service to her subjects. She also convinced the governmental board of health to set aside land for a leprosy hospital at Kakaʻako. She made a second visit to the settlement with Queen Kapiolani in 1884.\n\nIn April 1887, Kalākaua sent a delegation to attend the Golden Jubilee of Queen Victoria in London. It included his wife Queen Kapiʻolani, the Princess Liliʻuokalani and her husband, as well as Court Chamberlain Colonel Curtis P. Iaukea acting as the official envoy of the King. The party landed in San Francisco and traveled across the United States visiting Washington, D.C., Boston and New York City, where they boarded a ship for the United Kingdom. While in the American capital, they were received by President Grover Cleveland and his wife. In London, Kapiʻolani and Liliʻuokalani received an official audience with Queen Victoria at Buckingham Palace. Queen Victoria greeted both Hawaiian royals with affection, and recalled Kalākaua's visit in 1881. They attended the special Jubilee service at Westminster Abbey and were seated with other foreign royal guests, and with members of the Royal Household. Shortly after the Jubilee celebrations, they learned of the Bayonet Constitution that Kalākaua had been forced to sign under the threat of death. They canceled their tour of Europe and returned to Hawaii.\n\nLiliʻuokalani was approached on December 20 and 23 by James I. Dowsett, Jr. and William R. Castle, members of the legislature's Reform (Missionary) Party, proposing her ascension to the throne if her brother Kalākaua were removed from power. Historian Ralph S. Kuykendall stated that she gave a conditional \"if necessary\" response; however, Liliʻuokalani's account was that she firmly turned down both men. In 1889, a part \"kānaka maoli\" (Native Hawaiian) officer Robert W Wilcox, who resided in Liliʻuokalani's Palama residence, instigated an unsuccessful rebellion to overthrow the Bayonet Constitution.\n\nKalākaua arrived in California aboard the USS \"Charleston\" on November 25, 1890. There was uncertainty as to the purpose of the king's trip. Minister of Foreign Affairs John Adams Cummins reported that the trip was solely for the king's health and would not extend beyond California, while local newspapers and the British commissioner James Hay Wodehouse speculated that the king might go further east to Washington, D.C. to negotiate a treaty to extend the existing exclusive US access rights to Pearl Harbor, or the annexation of the kingdom. The McKinley Tariff Act had crippled the Hawaiian sugar industry by removing the duties on sugar imports from other countries into the US, eliminating the previous Hawaiian duty-free advantage under the Reciprocity Treaty of 1875. After failing to persuade the king to stay, Liliʻuokalani wrote that he and Hawaiian ambassador to the United States Henry A. P. Carter planned to discuss the tariff situation in Washington. In his absence, Liliʻuokalani was left in charge as regent for the second time. In her memoir, she wrote that \"Nothing worthy of record transpired during the closing days of 1890, and the opening weeks of 1891.\"\n\nUpon arriving in California, Kalākaua, whose health had been declining, stayed in a suite at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco. Traveling throughout Southern California and Northern Mexico, the monarch suffered a stroke in Santa Barbara and was rushed back to San Francisco. Kalākaua fell into a coma in his suite on January 18, and died two days later on January 20. The official cause of death was \"Bright's Disease with Uremic Blood Poisoning.\" The news of Kalākaua's death did not reach Hawaii until January 29 when the \"Charleston\" returned to Honolulu with the remains of the king.\n\nOn January 29, 1891, in the presence of the cabinet ministers and the supreme court justices, Liliʻuokalani took the oath of office to uphold the constitution, and became the first and only queen of the Kingdom of Hawaii. The first few weeks of her reign were obscured by the funeral of her brother. After the end of the period of mourning, one of her first acts was to request the formal resignation of the holdover cabinet from her brother's reign. These ministers refused, and asked for a ruling by the Hawaii Supreme Court. All the justices but one ruled in favor of the Queen's decision, and the ministers resigned. Liliʻuokalani appointed Samuel Parker, Hermann A. Widemann, and William A. Whiting, and reappointed Charles N. Spencer (from the hold-over cabinet), as her new cabinet ministers. On March 9, with the approval of the House of Nobles, as required by the Hawaiian constitution, she named as successor her niece Kaʻiulani, the only daughter of Archibald Scott Cleghorn and her sister Princess Likelike, who had died in 1887. From April to July, Liliʻuokalani paid the customary visits to the main Hawaiian Islands, including a revisit to the leper settlement of Kalaupapa. Historian Ralph Simpson Kuykendall noted, \"Everywhere she was accorded the homage traditionally paid by the Hawaiian people to their \"alii\".\"\nFollowing her accession, John Owen Dominis was given the title Prince Consort and restored to the Governorship of Oʻahu, which had been abolished following the Bayonet Constitution of 1887. Dominis' death on August 27, seven months into her reign, greatly affected the new Queen. Liliʻuokalani later wrote: \"His death occurred at a time when his long experience in public life, his amiable qualities, and his universal popularity, would have made him an adviser to me for whom no substitute could possibly be found. I have often said that it pleased the Almighty Ruler of nations to take him away from me at precisely the time when I felt that I most needed his counsel and companionship.\" Cleghorn, her sister's widower, was appointed to succeed Dominis as Governor of Oʻahu. In 1892, Liliʻuokalani would also restore the positions of governor for the other three main islands for her friends and supporters.\n\nFrom May 1892 to January 1893, the legislature of the Kingdom convened for an unprecedented 171 days, which later historians such as Albertine Loomis and Helena G. Allen dubbed the \"Longest Legislature\". This session was dominated by political infighting between and within the four parties: National Reform, Reform, National Liberal and Independent; none were able to gain a majority. Debates heard on the floor of the houses concerned the popular demand for a new constitution and the passage of a lottery bill and an opium licensing bill, aimed at alleviating the economic crisis caused by the McKinley Tariff. The main issues of contention between the new monarch and the legislators were the retention of her cabinet ministers, since political division prevented Liliʻuokalani from appointing a balanced council and the 1887 constitution gave the legislature the power to vote for the dismissal of her cabinet. Seven resolutions of want of confidence were introduced during this session, and four of her self-appointed cabinets (the Widemann, Macfarlane, Cornwell, and Wilcox cabinets) were ousted by votes of the legislature. On January 13, 1893, after the legislature dismissed the George Norton Wilcox cabinet (which had political sympathies to the Reform Party), Liliʻuokalani appointed the new Parker cabinet consisting of Samuel Parker, as minister of foreign affairs; John F. Colburn, as minister of the interior; William H. Cornwell, as minister of finance; and Arthur P. Peterson, as attorney general. She had chosen these men specifically to support her plan of promulgating a new constitution while the legislature was not in session.\n\nThe precipitating event leading to the 1893 overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii was the attempt by Queen Liliʻuokalani to promulgate a new constitution to regain powers for the monarchy and Native Hawaiians that had been lost under the Bayonet Constitution. Her opponents, who were led by two Hawaiian citizens Lorrin A. Thurston and W. O. Smith and included six Hawaiian citizens, five U.S. citizens and one German citizen. Outraged by her attempt to promulgate a new constitution, they moved to depose the Queen, overthrow the monarchy, and seek Hawaii's annexation to the United States.\n\nShortly after her accession, Liliʻuokalani began to receive petitions to re-write the Bayonet Constitution through the two major political parties of the time, Hui Kālaiʻāina and the National Reform Party. Supported by two-thirds of the registered voters, she moved to abrogate the existing 1887 constitution, but her cabinet withheld their support, knowing what her opponents' likely response would be.\n\nThe proposed constitution (co-written by the Queen and two legislators, Joseph Nāwahī and William Pūnohu White) would have restored the power to the monarchy, and voting rights to economically disenfranchised native Hawaiians and Asians. Her ministers and closest friends were all opposed to this plan; they tried unsuccessfully to dissuade her from pursuing these initiatives, both of which came to be used against her in the brewing constitutional crisis.\n\nThe political fallout led to citywide political rallies and meetings in Honolulu. Anti-monarchists, annexationists, and leading Reform Party politicians that included Lorrin A. Thurston, a grandson of American missionaries, and Kalākaua's former cabinet ministers under the Bayonet Constitution, formed the Committee of Safety in protest of the \"revolutionary\" action of the queen and conspired to depose her. Thurston and the Committee of Safety derived their support primarily from the American and European business class residing in Hawaiʻi. Most of the leaders of the overthrow were American and European citizens who were also Kingdom subjects. They also included legislators, government officers, and a justice of the Hawaiian Supreme Court.\n\nIn response, royalists and loyalists formed the Committee of Law and Order and met at the palace square on January16, 1893. Nāwahī, White, Robert W. Wilcox, and other pro-monarchist leaders gave speeches in support for the queen and the government. To try to appease the instigators, the queen and her supporters abandoned attempts to unilaterally promulgate a constitution .\n\nThe same day, the Marshal of the Kingdom, Charles Burnett Wilson, was tipped off by detectives to the imminent planned coup. Wilson requested warrants to arrest the 13-member council of the Committee of Safety, and put the Kingdom under martial law. Because the members had strong political ties to United States Minister to Hawaii John L. Stevens, the requests were repeatedly denied by the queen's cabinet, who feared that the arrests would escalate the situation. After a failed negotiation with Thurston, Wilson began to collect his men for the confrontation. Wilson and captain of the Royal Household Guard Samuel Nowlein had rallied a force of 496 men who were kept at hand to protect the queen. Marines from the USS \"Boston\" and two companies of US sailors landed and took up positions at the US Legation, the Consulate, and Arion Hall. The sailors and Marines did not enter the palace grounds or take over any buildings, and never fired a shot, but their presence served effectively in intimidating royalist defenders. Historian William Russ states, \"the injunction to prevent fighting of any kind made it impossible for the monarchy to protect itself\".\n\nThe queen was deposed on January 17, and the provisional government established under pro-annexation leader Sanford B. Dole was officially recognized by Stevens as the \"de facto\" government. She temporarily relinquished her throne to the United States, rather than the Dole-led government, in hopes that the United States would restore Hawaii's sovereignty to the rightful holder. The government under Dole began using ʻIolani Palace as its executive building. A delegation departed for Washington D.C. on January 19, to ask for immediate annexation by the United States. At the request of the provisional government, Stevens proclaimed Hawaii a protectorate of the United States on February 1, to temporarily provide a buffer against domestic upheaval and interference by foreign governments. The US flag was raised over the palace, and martial law was enforced. The annexation treaty presented to the US Senate contained a provision to grant Liliʻuokalani a $20,000 per annum lifetime pension, and Kaʻiulani a lump-sum payment of $150,000. The queen protested the proposed annexation in a January 19 letter to President Benjamin Harrison. She sent Prince David Kawānanakoa and Paul Neumann to represent her.\n\nNeumann delivered a letter from the queen to Grover Cleveland, who began his second non-consecutive term as president on March 4. The Cleveland administration commissioned the Blount Report, and based on its findings, concluded that the overthrow of Liliʻuokalani was illegal, and that Stevens and American military troops had acted inappropriately in support of those who carried out the overthrow. On November 16, Cleveland sent his minister Albert S. Willis to propose a return of the throne to Liliʻuokalani if she granted amnesty to everyone responsible. Her first response was that Hawaiian law called for property confiscation and the death penalty for treason, and that only her cabinet ministers could put aside the law in favor of amnesty. Liliuokalani's extreme position lost her the goodwill of the Cleveland administration.\n\nCleveland sent the issue to the Congress, stating, \"The Provisional Government has not assumed a republican, or other constitutional form, but has remained a mere executive council, or oligarchy, without the consent of the people\". The queen changed her position on the issue of amnesty, and on December 18, Willis demanded the provisional government reinstate her to the throne, but was refused. Congress responded with a US Senate investigation that resulted in the Morgan Report on February 26, 1894. It found Stevens and all parties except the queen \"not guilty\", absolving them of responsibility for the overthrow. The provisional government formed the Republic of Hawaii on July 4 with Dole as its president, maintaining oligarchical control and a limited system of suffrage.\n\nAt the beginning of January 1895, Robert W. Wilcox and Samuel Nowlein launched a rebellion against the forces of the Republic with the aim of restoring the queen and the monarchy. Its ultimate failure led to the arrest of many of the participants and other sympathizers of the monarchy. Liliʻuokalani was also arrested and imprisoned in an upstairs bedroom at the palace on January 16, several days after the failed rebellion, when firearms were found at her home of Washington Place after a tip from a prisoner.\n\nDuring her imprisonment, she abdicated her throne in return for the release (and commutation of the death sentences) of her jailed supporters; six had been sentenced to be hanged including Wilcox and Nowlein. She signed the document of abdication on January 24. In 1898, Liliʻuokalani wrote:\n\nShe was tried by the military commission of the Republic led by her former attorney general Whiting in the palace throne room on February 8. Defended at trial by another one of her former attorneys general Paul Neumann, she claimed ignorance but was sentenced to five years of hard labor in prison by the military tribunal and fined $5,000.\nThe sentence was commuted on September 4, to imprisonment in the palace, attended by her lady-in-waiting Eveline Townsend Wilson (aka Kitty), wife of Marshal Wilson. In confinement she composed songs including \"The Queen's Prayer\" (\"Ke Aloha o Ka Haku\" – \"The Grace of the Lord\").\n\nOn October 13, 1896, the Republic of Hawaii gave her a full pardon and restored her civil rights. \"Upon receiving my full release, I felt greatly inclined to go abroad,\" Liliʻuokalani wrote in her memoir. From December 1896 through January 1897, she stayed in Brookline, Massachusetts, with her husband's cousins William Lee and Sara White Lee, of the Lee & Shepard publishing house. During this period her long-time friend Julius A. Palmer Jr. became her secretary and stenographer, helping to write every letter, note, or publication. He was her literary support in the 1897 publication of the Kumulipo translation, and helped her in compiling a book of her songs. He assisted her as she wrote her memoir \"Hawaii's Story by Hawaii's Queen\". Sara Lee edited the book published in 1898 by Lee & Shepard.\n\nAt the end of her visit in Massachusetts, Liliʻuokalani began to divide her time between Hawaii and Washington, D.C., where she worked to seek indemnity from the United States.\n\nShe attended the inauguration of US President William McKinley on March 4, 1897, with a Republic of Hawaii passport personally issued to \"Liliuokalani of Hawaii\" by the republic's president Sanford B. Dole. On June 16, McKinley presented the United States Senate with a new version of the annexation treaty, one that eliminated the monetary compensation for Liliʻuokalani and Kaʻiulani. Liliʻuokalani filed an official protest with Secretary of State John Sherman the next day. The protest was witnessed by her agent and private secretary Joseph Heleluhe, Wekeki Heleluhe, and Captain Julius A. Palmer Jr., reported to be her American secretary.\n\nIn June 1897 President McKinley signed the \"Treaty for the Annexation for the Hawaiian Islands\", but it failed to pass in the United States Senate after the Kūʻē Petitions were submitted by a commission of Native Hawaiian delegates consisting of James Keauiluna Kaulia, David Kalauokalani, William Auld, and John Richardson. Members of Hui Aloha ʻĀina collected over 21,000 signatures opposing an annexation treaty. Another 17,000 signatures were collected by members of Hui Kālaiʻāina but not submitted to the Senate because those signatures were also asking for restoration of the Queen. The petitions collectively were presented as evidence of the strong grassroots opposition of the Hawaiian community to annexation, and the treaty was defeated in the Senate— however, following its failure, Hawaii was annexed anyway via the Newlands Resolution, a joint resolution of Congress, in July 1898, shortly after the outbreak of the Spanish–American War.\n\nThe annexation ceremony was held on August 12, 1898, at ʻIolani Palace, now being used as the executive building of the government. President Sanford B. Dole handed over \"the sovereignty and public property of the Hawaiian Islands\" to United States Minister Harold M. Sewall. The flag of the Republic of Hawaii was lowered and the flag of the United States was raised in its place. Liliʻuokalani and her family members and retainers boycotted the event and shuttered themselves away at Washington Place. Many Native Hawaiians and royalists followed suit and refused to attend the ceremony.\n\nPrior to the 1848 division of land known as the Great Māhele, during the reign of Kamehameha III, all land in Hawaii was owned by the monarchy. The Great Māhele subdivided the land among the monarchy, the government, and private ownership by tenants living on the land. What was reserved for the monarchy became known as the Crown Lands of Hawaii. When Hawaii was annexed, the Crown Lands were seized by the United States government. The Queen gave George Macfarlane her power of attorney in 1898 as part of her legal defense team in seeking indemnity for the government's seizure of the Crown Lands. She filed a protest with the United States Senate on December 20, 1898, requesting their return and claiming the lands were seized without due process or recompense.\n\nOn April 30, 1900, the US Congress passed the Hawaii Organic Act establishing a government for the Territory of Hawaii. The territorial government took control of the Crown Lands, which became the source of the \"Ceded Lands\" issue in Hawaii. The \"San Francisco Call\" reported on May 31 that Macfarlane had informed them the Queen had exhausted her patience with Congress and intended to file a lawsuit against the government. Former United States Minister to Hawaii Edward M. McCook said he believed that once President McKinley began his second term on March 1, 1901, that the government would negotiate a generous settlement with Liliʻuokalani.\n\nDuring a 1900 Congressional deadlock, she departed for Honolulu with her Washington, D.C., Doctor Charles H. English (sometimes referred to as John H. English). Newspapers speculated that the Queen, having been diagnosed with cancer, was going home to die. Historian Helena G. Allen made the case that English intended to gain title to crown lands for himself. According to Allen, the Queen balked at his draft of a settlement letter to Senator George Frisbie Hoar that he wanted her to copy in her handwriting and sign. The Doctor was terminated \"without cause\" a month after her return and sued her.\n\nThe \"Pacific Commercial Advertiser\" lamented in 1903, \"There is something pathetic in the appearance of Queen Liliuokalani as a waiting claimant before Congress.\" It detailed her years-long residencies in the nation's capital seeking indemnity, while legislators offered empty promises, but nothing of substance.\n\nIn 1909, Liliʻuokalani brought an unsuccessful lawsuit against the United States under the Fifth Amendment seeking the return of the Hawaiian Crown Lands. The US courts invoked an 1864 Kingdom Supreme Court decision over a case involving the Dowager Queen Emma and Kamehameha V, using it against her. In this decision the courts found that the Crown Lands were not necessarily the private possession of the monarch in the strictest sense of the term.\n\nAlthough Liliʻuokalani was never successful in more than a decade of legal pursuits for recompense from the United States government for seized land, in 1911 she was finally granted a lifetime pension of $1,250 a month by the Territory of Hawaii. Historian Sydney Lehua Iaukea noted that the grant never addressed the question of the legality of the seizure itself, and the figure was greatly reduced from what she had requested for recompense.\n\nIn April 1917, Liliʻuokalani raised the American flag at Washington Place in honor of five Hawaiian sailors who had perished in the sinking of the SS \"Aztec\" by German U-boats. Her act was interpreted by many as her symbolic support of the United States. Subsequent historians have disputed the true meaning of her act; Neil Thomas Proto argued that \"[h]er gesture that day was intended to reflect the dignity with which she still held the right of her people to choose their own fate long after she was gone\".\n\nBy the end of that summer, the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\" reported that she was too frail to hold her birthday reception for the public, an annual tradition dating back to the days of the monarchy. As one of her last public appearances in September, she officially became a member of the American Red Cross. Following several months of deteriorating health that left her without the use of her lower limbs, as well as a diminished mental capacity rendering her incapable of recognizing her own house, her inner circle of friends and caregivers sat vigil for the last two weeks of her life knowing the end was near. In accordance with Hawaiian tradition, the royal \"kāhili\" fanned her as she lay in bed. On the morning of November 11, Liliʻuokalani died at the age of seventy-nine at her residence at Washington Place.\n\nThe bells of Saint Andrew Cathedral and Kawaiahaʻo Church announced her death, tolling 79 times to signify her age. In keeping with Hawaiian tradition regarding deceased royalty, her body was not removed from her home until nearly midnight. Her body lay in state at Kawaiahaʻo Church for public viewing, after which she received a state funeral in the throne room of Iolani Palace, on November 18. Composer Charles E. King led a youth choir in \"Aloha ʻOe\" as her catafalque was moved from the palace up Nuuanu Avenue with 1200-foot ropes pulled by 200 people, for entombment with her family members in the Kalākaua Crypt at the Royal Mausoleum of Mauna ʻAla. The song was picked up by the procession participants and the crowds of people along the route. Films were taken of the funeral procession and later stored at ʻĀinahau, the former residence of her sister and niece. A fire on August 1, 1921, destroyed the home and all its contents, including the footage of the Queen's funeral.\n\nEducated by American Protestant missionaries from a young age, Liliʻuokalani became a devout Christian and adherent to the principles of Christianity. These missionaries were largely of Congregationalist and Presbyterian extractions, subscribing to Calvinist theology, and Liliʻuokalani considered herself a \"regular attendant on the Presbyterian worship\". She was the first member of the royal family to consistently and regularly attend service at Kawaiahaʻo Church since King Kamehameha IV converted to Anglicanism. On Sundays, she played the organ and led the choir at Kawaiahaʻo. She also regularly attended service at Kaumakapili Church and held a special interest in the Liliʻuokalani Protestant Church, to which she donated the Queen Liliʻuokalani Clock in 1892.\n\nHistorian Helena G. Allen noted that Liliʻuokalani and Kalākaua \"believed all religions had their 'rights' and were entitled to equal treatment and opportunities\". Throughout her life, Liliʻuokalani showed a broad interest in the different Christian faiths including Catholicism, Mormonism, Episcopalianism and other Protestant denominations. In 1896, she became a regular member of the Hawaiian Congregation at St. Andrew's Cathedral associated with the Reformed Catholic (Anglican/Episcopal) Church of Hawaii, which King Kamehameha IV and Queen Emma had founded. During the overthrow and her imprisonment, Bishop Alfred Willis of St. Andrew's Cathedral had openly supported the Queen while Reverend Henry Hodges Parker of Kawaiahaʻo had supported her opponents. Bishop Willis visited and wrote to her during her imprisonment and sent her a copy of the Book of Common Prayer. Shortly after her release on parole, the former queen was baptized and confirmed by Bishop Willis on May 18, 1896, in a private ceremony in the presence of the sisters of St. Andrew's Priory. In her memoir, Liliʻuokalani stated:\n\nThat first night of my imprisonment was the longest night I have ever passed in my life; it seemed as though the dawn of day would never come. I found in my bag a small Book of Common Prayer according to the ritual of the Episcopal Church. It was a great comfort to me, and before retiring to rest Mrs. Clark and I spent a few minutes in the devotions appropriate to the evening. Here, perhaps, I may say, that although I had been a regular attendant on the Presbyterian worship since my childhood, a constant contributor to all the missionary societies, and had helped to build their churches and ornament the walls, giving my time and my musical ability freely to make their meetings attractive to my people, yet none of these pious church members or clergymen remembered me in my prison. To this (Christian ?) conduct I contrast that of the Anglican bishop, Rt. Rev. Alfred Willis, who visited me from time to time in my house, and in whose church I have since been confirmed as a communicant. But he was not allowed to see me at the palace.\n\nShe traveled to Utah in 1901 for a visit with Mormon president Joseph F. Smith, a former missionary to the Hawaiian Island. There she joined in services at the Salt Lake Tabernacle, and was feted at a Beehive House reception, attended by many expatriate Native Hawaiians. In 1906, she was baptized into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Abraham Kaleimahoe Fernandez. However, her interest in Mormonism later waned.\n\nThe Queen was also remembered for her support of Buddhist and Shinto priests in Hawaii and became one of the first Native Hawaiians to attend a Buddha's Birthday celebration of May 19, 1901, at the Honwangji mission. Her attendance in the celebration helped Buddhism and Shintoism gain acceptance into Hawaiian society and prevented the possible banning of the two religions by the Territorial government. Her presence was also widely reported in Chinese and Japanese newspapers throughout the world, and earned her the respect of many Japanese people both in Hawaii and in Japan itself.\n\nLiliʻuokalani was an accomplished author and songwriter. Her book \"Hawaiʻi's Story by Hawaiʻi's Queen\" gave her view of the history of her country and her overthrow. She is said to have played guitar, piano, organ, ʻukulele and zither, and also sang alto, performing Hawaiian and English sacred and secular music. In her memoirs she wrote:\n\nLiliʻuokalani helped preserve key elements of Hawaiʻi's traditional poetics while mixing in Western harmonies brought by the missionaries. A compilation of her works, titled \"The Queen's Songbook\", was published in 1999 by the Queen Liliʻuokalani Trust. Liliʻuokalani used her musical compositions as a way to express her feelings for her people, her country, and what was happening in the political realm in Hawaiʻi. One example of the way her music reflected her political views is her translation of the Kumulipo, the Hawaiian creation chant. While under house arrest, Liliʻuokalani feared she would never leave the palace alive, so she translated the Kumulipo in hopes that the history and culture of her people would never be lost. The ancient chants record her family's genealogy back to the origin story of Hawaiʻi.\n\nAfter Liliʻuokalani was imprisoned in the ʻIolani Palace, she was denied literature and newspapers, essentially cutting her off from her people, but she continued to compose music with paper and pencil while she was in confinement.\nAnother of her compositions was \"Aloha ʻOe\", a song she had written previously and transcribed during her confinement. In her writings, she says, \"At first I had no instrument, and had to transcribe the notes by voice alone; but I found, notwithstanding disadvantages, great consolation in composing, and transcribed a number of songs. Three found their way from my prison to the city of Chicago, where they were printed, among them the 'Aloha ʻOe' or 'Farewell to Thee', which became a very popular song.\" Originally written as a lover's good-bye, the song came to be regarded as a symbol of, and lament for, the loss of her country. Today, it is one of the most recognizable Hawaiian songs.\n\nCaptain Julius A. Palmer Jr. of Massachusetts was her friend for three decades, and became her spokesperson when she was in residence at Boston and Washington D.C., protesting the annexation of Hawaiʻi. In the nation's capital, he estimated that she had 5,000 visitors. When asked by an interviewer, \"What are her most distinctive personal graces?\", Palmer replied, \"Above everything else she displayed a disposition of the most Christian forgiveness.\" In covering her death and funeral, the mainstream newspapers in Hawaii that had supported the overthrow and annexation recognized that she had been held in great esteem around the world. In March 2016, \"Hawaiʻi Magazine\" listed Liliʻuokalani as one of the most influential women in Hawaiian history.\n\nThe Queen Liliʻuokalani Trust was established on December 2, 1909, for the care of orphaned and destitute children in Hawaii. Effective upon her death, the proceeds of her estate, with the exception of twelve individual inheritances specified therein, were to be used for the Trust. The largest of these hereditary estates were willed to her \"hānai\" sons and their heirs: John ʻAimoku Dominis would receive Washington Place while Joseph Kaiponohea ʻAeʻa would receive Kealohilani, her residence at Waikiki. Both men predeceased the Queen. Before and after her death, lawsuits were filed to overturn her will establishing the Trust. One notable litigant was Prince Jonah Kūhiō Kalanianaʻole, the nephew of her brother Kalākaua and his wife Kapiʻolani and Liliʻuokalani's second cousin, who brought a suit against the Trust on November 30, 1915, questioning the Queen's competency in executing the will and attempting to break the Trust. These lawsuits were resolved in 1923 and the will went into probate. The Queen Liliʻuokalani Children's Center was created by the Trust.\n\nLiliʻuokalani and her siblings are recognized by the Hawaiian Music Hall of Fame as the \"Na Lani ʻEhā\" (\"The Heavenly Four\") for their patronage and enrichment of Hawaii's musical culture and history. In 2007, \"Honolulu\" magazine rated \"Aloha ʻOe\" as the greatest song in the history of Hawaiian music. Songwriter Charles E. King, known as the composer of \"Ke Kali Nei Au\", was tutored in music by her. Entertainer Bina Mossman led the Bina Mossman Glee Club that rehearsed regularly at Washington Place, while Liliʻuokalani helped them with pronunciation of the Hawaiian language. At the queen's funeral, the glee club was part of the kahili bearers who stood watch over the coffin for two hours at a time, waving the kahilis and singing Liliʻuokalani's compositions.\n\nThe annual Queen Liliʻuokalani Outrigger Canoe Race, which follows an 18-mile course from Kailua Bay to Honaunau Bay, was organized in 1972 as an endurance training course for men, in preparation for the traditional Molokaʻi to Oʻahu canoe races. Women canoe teams were added in 1974. The race is held over Labor Day Weekend each year to coincide with Liliʻuokalani's birthday on September 2.\n\nIn the 2001 naming of the \"Queen Liliʻuokalani Center for Studies Services\", on the University of Hawaii at Manoa campus, the Board of Regents noted, \"As the last Hawaiian monarch, Queen Liliʻuokalani symbolizes an important link to traditional Hawaiian culture and society. Her influence is well understood, widely respected and has been a strong motivating factor in the widespread emergence of Hawaiian culture and the values embodied in it.\"\n\nNumerous hula events are held to honor her memory, including the Queen Liliʻuokalani Keiki Hula Competition Honolulu, organized in 1976. The County of Hawaii holds an annual He Hali'a Aloha no Lili'uokalani Festival, Queen's Birthday Celebration at Liliʻuokalani Park and Gardens in Hilo, in partnership with the Queen Lili'uokalani Trust. The event begins with several hundred dancers showered by 50,000 orchid blossoms.\n\n\nKalākaua and Liliʻuokalani held formal titles in both English and Hawaiian. The official title of Queen Liliʻuokalani was \"Ma ka Lokomaikaʻi o ke Akua, Moʻi Wahine o ko Hawaiʻi Pae ʻAina\" (\"By the grace of God, Queen of the Hawaiian Islands).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42571534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42571534", "title": "List of assassinations in Europe", "text": "List of assassinations in Europe\n\nThis is a list of assassinations which took place on the continent of Europe.\n\nFor the purposes of this article, an assassination is defined as the deliberate, premeditated murder of a prominent figure, often for religious or political reasons.\n"}
{"id": "132821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132821", "title": "Literary festival", "text": "Literary festival\n\nA literary festival, also known as a book festival or writers' festival, is a regular gathering of writers and readers, typically on an annual basis in a particular city. A literary festival usually features a variety of presentations and readings by authors, as well as other events, delivered over a period of several days, with the primary objectives of promoting the authors' books and fostering a love of literature and writing.\n\nWriters' conferences are sometimes designed to provide an intellectual and academic focus for groups of writers without the involvement of the general public.\n\nThere are many literary festivals held around the world. A non-exhaustive list is set out below, including dates when a festival is usually held (where available).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50919088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50919088", "title": "London independence", "text": "London independence\n\nLondon independence, sometimes shortened to Londependence, refers to a belief favouring full-fledged independence for London as a city-state separate from the United Kingdom.\nLondon's status within the United Kingdom has been debated for several years, with some calls for increased autonomy, Supporters have frequently cited Greater London's population of over 8 million people, its economic size, its global role, its diverse population and its unique challenges compared to the rest of England as reasons for greater autonomy. The idea of London becoming a city-state was discussed from the 1990s, and resurfaced during the Scottish independence referendum of 2014.\n\nThe movement for either increased autonomy or full sovereignty received a boost following the UK EU referendum in 2016, during which the UK as a whole voted to leave the European Union (at 52% leave), although the majority of London voted for the UK to remain in the EU (60% remain). This led to 180,000 Londoners petitioning Sadiq Khan, Mayor of London online to seek London's independence from the UK so it could remain part of the EU. Supporters cite London's status as a \"world city\" and its demographic and economic differences from the rest of the United Kingdom, and argue that it should become a city-state based on the model of Singapore, while remaining an EU member state.\n\nSpencer Livermore of the Labour Party said that London's independence \"should be a goal\", arguing that a London city-state would have twice the GDP of Singapore. Journalist Tony Travers argued that Khan would be \"well within his rights to tell the government London didn't vote for Brexit and that City Hall now viewed the government as dysfunctional.\" Analyst Kevin Doran said that London becoming an independent state is not just possible, but inevitable \"within 20 to 30 years' time.\"\n\nAfter the EU referendum vote, Peter John, the Labour Party leader of the London Borough of Southwark stated it would be a \"legitimate question\" for London to consider its future in the United Kingdom and the European Union. Southwark had voted 72% in favour of remaining in the EU. John also said \"London would be the 15th largest EU state, bigger than Austria, Denmark and Ireland and our values are in line with Europe – outward looking, confident of our place in the world, enriched by our diversity and stronger working together with our friends and neighbours than we are alone.\"\n\nTwo opinion polls have been carried out by the polling company YouGov on Londoners' preferred constitutional status.\n\nA different survey of 2,001 people carried out by the firm Censuswide in September 2014 found that 19.9% of Londoners wanted the city to become independent, with support for this being highest among people aged 25–34.\n\nThe idea of London independence has been criticised as unrealistic. Brian Groom of the \"Financial Times\" wrote that \"it is ludicrous to think of any nation gladly waving goodbye to its capital\", calling the idea of secession a \"fantasy\".\n\nDr. James Ker-Lindsay, a senior research fellow at the London School of Economics who specialises in secession movements, stated with regard to a referendum on London Independence that it \"seems difficult to see how any government would ever agree to such a vote.\" He also said if London broke away without permission it would not be able to join the UN.\n\n"}
{"id": "31670280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31670280", "title": "Met Gala", "text": "Met Gala\n\nThe Met Gala, formally called the Costume Institute Gala and also known as the Met Ball, is an annual fundraising gala for the benefit of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute in New York City. It marks the grand opening of the Costume Institute's annual fashion exhibit. Each year's event celebrates the theme of that year's Costume Institute exhibition, and the exhibition sets the tone for the formal dress of the night, since guests are expected to choose their fashion to match the theme of the exhibit.\n\nThe Met Gala was established in 1948 by legendary fashion publicist Eleanor Lambert as a way to raise money for the newly-founded Costume Institute and mark the opening of its annual exhibit. The first gala was a midnight dinner and tickets were fifty dollars each. While Lambert herself dubbed it the \"Party of the Year,\" for the first few decades of its existence the gala was simply one of many annual benefits held for New York charitable institutions. Accordingly, the attendees of the early galas were almost entirely members of New York high society or the fashion industry. From 1948 to 1971, the event was held at venues including the Waldorf-Astoria, Central Park, and Rainbow Room.\n\nWhen former Vogue editor-in-chief Diane Vreeland became special consultant to the Costume Institute in 1972, the Gala began to evolve into a more glamorous affair, although one that was still aimed at the societal set. The event started to become more celebrity-oriented with attendees like Andy Warhol, Diana Ross, and Cher intermixing with the city's elite. It was during the Vreeland years that the Gala was first held at the Met and that Gala themes were introduced. By the time Vreeland died in 1989, the Met Gala was well known as a luxurious, blockbuster event and was considered \"the jewel in New York City's social crown.\n\nInstitute Gala is a major fundraising benefit that serves as an opening celebration for the Institute's annual fashion exhibit. Following the event, the exhibition runs for several months. The 2014 exhibition was scheduled to run from May 8 until August 10, 2014. The Gala is widely regarded as one of the most exclusive social events in New York and one of the biggest fundraising nights in the city with $9 million raised in 2013 and a record of $12 million the following year. It is one of the most notable sources of funding for the Institute. The affair, attended by personalities from the arts, fashion, high-society, film, and music, has been held at the Met since 1948 and is considered to be the fashion industry's premier annual red carpet event. Its red carpet fashions are widely photographed, reviewed, critiqued, and emulated. The museum is closed to the general public on the first Monday of May due to the gala occurring.\n\nAnna Wintour, \"Vogue\" editor-in-chief and a chair of the event since 1995 (excluding 1996 and 1998), oversees both the benefit committee and the guest list, with \"Vogue\" staffers helping assemble the list of invitees. According to Cathy Horyn of \"The New York Times\", the gathering rivals the West Coast's \"Vanity Fair\" Oscar Party, which is said to have more \"star power\" but less fashion panache. In 2014, the individual tickets cost $30,000 for those outside the official guest list, after prices were raised $10,000 to increase the exclusivity of the event. The annual guest list includes only 650–700 people.\n\nEach year the event has a theme, and includes a cocktail hour and a formal dinner. During the cocktail hour, guests arrive to walk on the red carpet, tour the year's special themed exhibition, and be seated before the dinner party that includes entertainment from the preeminent entertainers of the day. The theme not only sets the tone for the annual exhibit, but also for the guests who attempt to dress to uphold the theme of the year, oftentimes causing runs on certain fashion themes among the world's leading fashion retailers. Sometimes, such as in 2013, the theme is a bit befuddling because it does not provide a clear stylistic directive, while at other times, such as 2014 the theme may be far more challenging to one gender than the other.\n\n\nThe 2015 Gala and its theme of \"China: Through the Looking Glass\" became the subject of a documentary—\"The First Monday in May\"' directed by Andrew Rossi produced by Condé Nast Entertainment, \"Vogue\", and Relativity Studios. 225 approved photographers, reporters, and social media participants documented the event for the documentary. All other attendees were forbidden from using social media at the event. Guests received notices about the restriction of selfies and social media inside the gala. The no-selfie ordinance was extended to the following editions of the Met Gala.\n\nIn addition to Wintour's role of chairing the gala, there are different co-chairs and honorary chairs every year. The list of past co-chairs and honorary chairs includes the following:\nWhen the Met Gala announced a white tie dress code in 2014, a number of media outlets pointed out the difficulty and expense of obtaining traditional white tie, even for the celebrity guests.\n\nIn 2015, the theme \"China: Through the Looking Glass\" was previously named \"Chinese Whispers: Tales of the East in Art, Film and Fashion\". The same year's theme was met with critics saying it was \"A reminder of the subtle institutionalised racism that's been compounded by centuries of Asian isolationism across the board, and enduring Western stereotypes exacerbated by ignorance and the meme-able nature of social media.\"\n\nIn 2016, Madonna, whilst channeling the theme \"Manus x Machina: Fashion in an Age of Technology\", provided one of the most controversial outfits in the gala's history. She appeared in an ensemble designed by Givenchy creative director Riccardo Tisci exposing both her breasts and buttocks. Madonna hit back on her official social media channels by stating \"We have fought and continue to fight for civil rights and gay rights around the world. When it comes to women’s rights we are still in the dark ages. My dress at the Met Ball was a political statement as well as a fashion statement\".\n\nThe 2018 Gala had a Roman Catholic theme, and included Rihanna wearing a papal mitre. Critics on social media called it \"blasphemous\" and \"sacrilegious cosplay\", even though the Catholic Church lent more than forty papal vestments from the Vatican and Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan attended. Kyle Smith argued that the Catholic Church was in fact \"abetting the mockery of its symbols\". Catholic apologist Michael Voris has criticized Cardinal Dolan for attending the 2018 Met Gala.\n\nAs of 2018, attendees must be age of 18 to enter the gala.\n\n"}
{"id": "1686973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1686973", "title": "Military Inter-Allied Commission of Control", "text": "Military Inter-Allied Commission of Control\n\nThe term Military Inter-Allied Commission of Control was used in a series of peace treaties concluded after the First World War (1914–1918) between different countries. Each of these treaties was concluded between the Principal Allied and Associated Powers (consisting of the United States of America, the British Empire, France, Italy and Japan) on the one hand, and one of the Central Powers like Germany, Turkey or Bulgaria.\n\nOne of the terms of such treaties required conversion of all of the Central Powers' military and armaments related production and related facilities into purely commercial use. The decision and the modus operandi to ensure this rested with a \"Military Inter-Allied Commission of Control\". The \"Military Inter-Allied Commission of Control\" was also entrusted with a number of other responsibilities, including:\n\nThe commission of control ceased to function in Germany on 28 February 1927, in Hungary on 31 March and in Bulgaria on 1 June.\n\n"}
{"id": "20171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20171", "title": "Murder", "text": "Murder\n\nMurder is the unlawful killing of another human without justification or valid excuse, especially the unlawful killing of another human being with malice aforethought. This state of mind may, depending upon the jurisdiction, distinguish murder from other forms of unlawful homicide, such as manslaughter. Manslaughter is a killing committed in the absence of \"malice\", brought about by reasonable provocation, or diminished capacity. \"Involuntary\" manslaughter, where it is recognized, is a killing that lacks all but the most attenuated guilty intent, recklessness. \n\nMost societies consider murder to be an extremely serious crime, and thus believe that the person charged should receive harsh punishments for the purposes of retribution, deterrence, rehabilitation, or incapacitation. In most countries, a person convicted of murder generally faces a long-term prison sentence, possibly a life sentence; and in a few, the death penalty may be imposed.\n\nThe modern English word \"murder\" descends from the Proto-Indo-European \"mrtró\" which meant \"to die\". The Middle English \"mordre\" is a noun from Anglo-Saxon \"morðor\" and Old French \"murdre\". Middle English \"mordre\" is a verb from Anglo-Saxon \"myrdrian\" and the Middle English noun.\n\nThe eighteenth-century English jurist William Blackstone (citing Edward Coke), in his \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\" set out the common law definition of murder, which by this definition occurs\nThe elements of common law murder are:\n\n\nThe Unlawful – This distinguishes murder from killings that are done within the boundaries of law, such as capital punishment, justified self-defence, or the killing of enemy combatants by lawful combatants as well as causing collateral damage to non-combatants during a war.\n\nKilling – At common law life ended with cardiopulmonary arrest – the total and irreversible cessation of blood circulation and respiration. With advances in medical technology courts have adopted irreversible cessation of all brain function as marking the end of life.\n\nСriminal act or omission – Killing can be committed by an act or an omission.\n\nof a human – This element presents the issue of when life begins. At common law, a fetus was not a human being. Life began when the fetus passed through the vagina and took its first breath.\n\nby another human – In early common law, suicide was considered murder. The requirement that the person killed be someone other than the perpetrator excluded suicide from the definition of murder.\n\nwith malice aforethought – Originally \"malice aforethought\" carried its everyday meaning – a deliberate and premeditated (prior intent) killing of another motivated by ill will. Murder necessarily required that an appreciable time pass between the formation and execution of the intent to kill. The courts broadened the scope of murder by eliminating the requirement of actual premeditation and deliberation as well as true malice. All that was required for malice aforethought to exist is that the perpetrator act with one of the four states of mind that constitutes \"malice\".\n\nThe four states of mind recognized as constituting \"malice\" are:\n\nUnder state of mind (i), intent to kill, the \"deadly weapon rule\" applies. Thus, if the defendant intentionally uses a deadly weapon or instrument against the victim, such use authorizes a permissive inference of intent to kill. In other words, \"intent follows the bullet\". Examples of deadly weapons and instruments include but are not limited to guns, knives, deadly toxins or chemicals or gases and even vehicles when intentionally used to harm one or more victims.\n\nUnder state of mind (iii), an \"abandoned and malignant heart\", the killing must result from the defendant's conduct involving a reckless indifference to human life and a conscious disregard of an unreasonable risk of death or serious bodily injury. In Australian jurisdictions, the unreasonable risk must amount to a foreseen probability of death (or grievous bodily harm in most states), as opposed to possibility.\n\nUnder state of mind (iv), the felony-murder doctrine, the felony committed must be an inherently dangerous felony, such as burglary, arson, rape, robbery or kidnapping. Importantly, the underlying felony \"cannot\" be a lesser included offense such as assault, otherwise all criminal homicides would be murder as all are felonies.\n\nAs with most legal terms, the precise definition of murder varies between jurisdictions and is usually codified in some form of legislation. Even when the legal distinction between murder and manslaughter is clear, it is not unknown for a jury to find a murder defendant guilty of the lesser offence. The jury might sympathise with the defendant (e.g. in a crime of passion, or in the case of a bullied victim who kills their tormentor), and the jury may wish to protect the defendant from a sentence of life imprisonment or execution.\n\nMany jurisdictions divide murder by degrees. The distinction between first- and second-degree murder exists, for example, in Canadian murder law and U.S. murder law.\n\nThe most common division is between first- and second-degree murder. Generally, second-degree murder is common law murder, and first-degree is an aggravated form. The aggravating factors of first-degree murder depend on the jurisdiction, but may include a specific intent to kill, premeditation, or deliberation. In some, murder committed by acts such as strangulation, poisoning, or lying in wait are also treated as first-degree murder. A few states in the U.S. further distinguish third-degree murder, but they differ significantly in which kinds of murders they classify as second-degree versus third-degree. For example, Minnesota defines third-degree murder as depraved-heart murder, whereas Florida defines third-degree murder as felony murder (except when the underlying felony is specifically listed in the definition of first-degree murder).\n\nSome jurisdictions also distinguish premeditated murder. This is the crime of wrongfully and intentionally causing the death of another human being (also known as murder) after rationally considering the timing or method of doing so, in order to either increase the likelihood of success, or to evade detection or apprehension.\nState laws in the United States vary as to definitions of \"premeditation\". In some states, premeditation may be construed as taking place mere seconds before the murder. Premeditated murder is one of the most serious forms of homicide, and is punished more severely than manslaughter or other types of murder, often with a life sentence without the possibility of parole, or in some countries, the death penalty. In the U.S, federal law () criminalizes premeditated murder, felony murder and second-degree murder. In Canada, the Criminal Code classifies murder as either 1st- or 2nd-degree. The former type of murder is often called premeditated murder, although premeditation is not the only way murder can be classified as first-degree.\n\nAccording to Blackstone, English common law identified murder as a \"public wrong\". According to common law, murder is considered to be \"malum in se\", that is an act which is evil within itself. An act such as murder is wrong or evil by its very nature. And it is the very nature of the act which does not require any specific detailing or definition in the law to consider murder a crime.\n\nSome jurisdictions still take a common law view of murder. In such jurisdictions, what is considered to be murder is defined by precedent case law or previous decisions of the courts of law. However, although the common law is by nature flexible and adaptable, in the interests both of certainty and of securing convictions, most common law jurisdictions have codified their criminal law and now have statutory definitions of murder.\n\nAlthough laws vary by country, there are circumstances of exclusion that are common in many legal systems.\n\n\nAll jurisdictions require that the victim be a natural person; that is, a human being who was still alive before being murdered. In other words, under the law one cannot murder a corpse, a corporation, a non-human animal, or any other non-human organism such as a plant or bacterium.\n\nCalifornia's murder statute, Penal Code Section 187, was interpreted by the Supreme Court of California in 1994 as not requiring any proof of the viability of the fetus as a prerequisite to a murder conviction. This holding has two implications. The first is a defendant in California can be convicted of murder for killing a fetus which the mother herself could have terminated without committing a crime. The second, as stated by Justice Stanley Mosk in his dissent, is that because women carrying nonviable fetuses may not be visibly pregnant, it may be possible for a defendant to be convicted of intentionally murdering a person they did not know existed.\n\nSome countries allow conditions that \"affect the balance of the mind\" to be regarded as mitigating circumstances. This means that a person may be found guilty of \"manslaughter\" on the basis of \"diminished responsibility\" rather than being found guilty of murder, if it can be proved that the killer was suffering from a condition that affected their judgment at the time. Depression, post-traumatic stress disorder and medication side-effects are examples of conditions that may be taken into account when assessing responsibility.\n\nMental disorder may apply to a wide range of disorders including psychosis caused by schizophrenia and dementia, and excuse the person from the need to undergo the stress of a trial as to liability. Usually, sociopathy and other personality disorders are not legally considered insanity, because of the belief they are the result of free will in many societies. In some jurisdictions, following the pre-trial hearing to determine the extent of the disorder, the defence of \"not guilty by reason of insanity\" may be used to get a not guilty verdict. This defence has two elements:\n\nUnder New York law, for example:\nUnder the French Penal Code:\nThose who successfully argue a defence based on a mental disorder are usually referred to mandatory clinical treatment until they are certified safe to be released back into the community, rather than prison. A criminal defendant is often presented with the option of pleading \"not guilty by reason of insanity\". Thus, a finding of insanity results in a not-guilty verdict, although the defendant is placed in a state treatment facility where they could be kept for years or even decades.\n\nPostpartum depression (also known as post-natal depression) is recognized in some countries as a mitigating factor in cases of infanticide. According to Dr. Susan Friedman, \"Two dozen nations have infanticide laws that decrease the penalty for mothers who kill their children of up to one year of age. The United States does not have such a law, but mentally ill mothers may plead not guilty by reason of insanity.\" In the law of the Republic of Ireland, infanticide was made a separate crime from murder in 1949, applicable for the mother of a baby under one year old where \"the balance of her mind was disturbed by reason of her not having fully recovered from the effect of giving birth to the child or by reason of the effect of lactation consequent upon the birth of the child\". Since independence, death sentences for murder in such cases had always been commuted; the new act was intended \"to eliminate all the terrible ritual of the black cap and the solemn words of the judge pronouncing sentence of death in those cases ... where it is clear to the Court and to everybody, except perhaps the unfortunate accused, that the sentence will never be carried out.\" In Russia, murder of a newborn child by the mother has been separate crime since 1996.\n\nFor a killing to be considered murder in nine out of fifty states in the US, there normally needs to be an element of intent. A defendant may argue that they took precautions not to kill, that the death could not have been anticipated, or was unavoidable. As a general rule, manslaughter constitutes reckless killing, but manslaughter also includes criminally negligent (i.e. grossly negligent) homicide. Unintentional killing that results from an involuntary action generally cannot constitute murder. After examining the evidence, a judge or jury (depending on the jurisdiction) would determine whether the killing was intentional or unintentional.\n\nIn those jurisdictions using the Uniform Penal Code, such as California, diminished capacity may be a defence. For example, Dan White used this defence to obtain a manslaughter conviction, instead of murder, in the assassination of Mayor George Moscone and Supervisor Harvey Milk. Afterward, California amended its penal code to provide \"As a matter of public policy there shall be no defense of diminished capacity, diminished responsibility, or irresistible impulse in a criminal action...\"\n\nMurder with specified aggravating circumstances is often punished more harshly. Depending on the jurisdiction, such circumstances may include:\n\n\nIn the United States and Canada, these murders are referred to as first-degree or aggravated murders. Murder, under English criminal law, always carries a mandatory life sentence, but is not classified into degrees. Penalties for murder committed under aggravating circumstances are often higher, under English law, than the 15-year minimum non-parole period that otherwise serves as a starting point for a murder committed by an adult.\n\nA legal doctrine in some common law jurisdictions broadens the crime of murder: when an offender kills in the commission of a dangerous crime, (regardless of intent), he/she is guilty of murder. The felony murder rule is often justified by its supporters as a means of deterring dangerous felonies, but the case of Ryan Holle shows it can be used very widely.\n\nIn some common law jurisdictions, a defendant accused of murder is not guilty if the victim survives for longer than one year and one day after the attack. This reflects the likelihood that if the victim dies, other factors will have contributed to the cause of death, breaking the chain of causation; and also means that the responsible person does not have a charge of murder \"hanging over their head indefinitely\". Subject to any statute of limitations, the accused could still be charged with an offence reflecting the seriousness of the initial assault.\n\nWith advances in modern medicine, most countries have abandoned a fixed time period and test causation on the facts of the case. This is known as \"delayed death\" and cases where this was applied or was attempted to be applied go back to at least 1966.\n\nIn England and Wales, the \"year-and-a-day rule\" was abolished by the Law Reform (Year and a Day Rule) Act 1996. However, if death occurs three years or more after the original attack then prosecution can take place only with the Attorney-General's approval.\n\nIn the United States, many jurisdictions have abolished the rule as well. Abolition of the rule has been accomplished by enactment of statutory criminal codes, which had the effect of displacing the common-law definitions of crimes and corresponding defences. In 2001 the Supreme Court of the United States held that retroactive application of a state supreme court decision abolishing the year-and-a-day rule did not violate the Ex Post Facto Clause of Article I of the United States Constitution.\n\nThe potential effect of fully abolishing the rule can be seen in the case of 74-year-old William Barnes, charged with the murder of a Philadelphia police officer Walter Barkley, who he'd shot nearly 41 years before. Barnes had served 16 years in prison for attempting to murder Barkley, but when the policeman died on August 19, 2007, this was alleged to be from complications of the wounds suffered from the shooting - and Barnes was charged with his murder. He was acquitted on May 24, 2010.\n\nMartin Daly and Margo Wilson of McMaster University have claimed that several aspects of homicides, including the genetic relations or proximity between murderers and their victims, (as in the Cinderella effect), can often be explained by the evolution theory or evolutionary psychology. \n\nIn the Abrahamic religions, the first ever murder was committed by Cain against his brother Abel out of jealousy. In the past, certain types of homicide were lawful and justified. Georg Oesterdiekhoff wrote:\n\nIn many such societies the redress was not via a legal system, but by blood revenge, although there might also be a form of payment that could be made instead—such as the weregild which in early Germanic society could be paid to the victim's family in lieu of their right of revenge.\n\nOne of the oldest-known prohibitions against murder appears in the Sumerian Code of Ur-Nammu written sometime between 2100 and 2050 BC. The code states, \"If a man commits a murder, that man must be killed.\"\n\nIn Judeo-Christian traditions, the prohibition against murder is one of the Ten Commandments given by God to Moses in (Exodus: 20v13) and (Deuteronomy 5v17). The Vulgate and subsequent early English translations of the Bible used the term \"secretly killeth his neighbour\" or \"smiteth his neighbour secretly\" rather than \"murder\" for the Latin \"clam percusserit proximum\". Later editions such as Young's Literal Translation and the World English Bible have translated the Latin \"occides\" simply as \"murder\" rather than the alternatives of \"kill\", \"assassinate\", \"fall upon\", or \"slay\".\n\nIn Islam according to the Qur'an, one of the greatest sins is to kill a human being who has committed no fault. \"For that cause We decreed for the Children of Israel that whosoever killeth a human being for other than manslaughter or corruption in the earth, it shall be as if he had killed all mankind, and whoso saveth the life of one, it shall be as if he had saved the life of all mankind.\" \"And those who cry not unto any other god along with Allah, nor take the life which Allah hath forbidden save in (course of) justice, nor commit adultery – and whoso doeth this shall pay the penalty.\"\n\nThe term \"assassin\" derives from Hashshashin, a militant Ismaili Shi'ite sect, active from the 8th to 14th centuries. This mystic secret society killed members of the Abbasid, Fatimid, Seljuq and Crusader elite for political and religious reasons. The Thuggee cult that plagued India was devoted to Kali, the goddess of death and destruction. According to some estimates the Thuggees murdered 1 million people between 1740 and 1840. The Aztecs believed that without regular offerings of blood the sun god Huitzilopochtli would withdraw his support for them and destroy the world as they knew it. According to Ross Hassig, author of \"Aztec Warfare\", \"between 10,000 and 80,400 persons\" were sacrificed in the 1487 re-consecration of the Great Pyramid of Tenochtitlan.\n\nSouthern slave codes did make willful killing of a slave illegal in most cases. For example, the 1860 Mississippi case of \"Oliver v. State\" charged the defendant with murdering his own slave. In 1811, the wealthy white planter Arthur Hodge was hanged for murdering several of his slaves on his plantation in the British West Indies.\n\nIn Corsica, vendetta was a social code that required Corsicans to kill anyone who wronged their family honor. Between 1821 and 1852, no fewer than 4,300 murders were perpetrated in Corsica.\n\nThe World Health Organization reported in October 2002 that a person is murdered every 60 seconds. An estimated 520,000 people were murdered in 2000 around the globe. Another study estimated the worldwide murder rate at 456,300 in 2010 with a 35% increase since 1990. Two-fifths of them were young people between the ages of 10 and 29 who were killed by other young people. Because murder is the least likely crime to go unreported, statistics of murder are seen as a bellwether of overall crime rates.\n\nMurder rates vary greatly among countries and societies around the world. In the Western world, murder rates in most countries have declined significantly during the 20th century and are now between 1 and 4 cases per 100,000 people per year.\n\nMurder rates in jurisdictions such as Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Iceland, Sweden, Switzerland, Italy, Spain and Germany are among the lowest in the world, around 0.3–1 cases per 100,000 people per year; the rate of the United States is among the highest of developed countries, around 4.5 in 2014, with rates in larger cities sometimes over 40 per 100,000. The top ten highest murder rates are in Honduras (91.6 per 100,000), El Salvador, Ivory Coast, Venezuela, Belize, Jamaica, U.S. Virgin Islands, Guatemala, Saint Kitts and Nevis and Zambia. (UNODC, 2011 – ).\n\nThe following absolute murder counts per-country are not comparable because they are not adjusted by each country's total population. Nonetheless, they are included here for reference, with 2010 used as the base year (they may or may not include justifiable homicide, depending on the jurisdiction). There were 52,260 murders in Brazil, consecutively elevating the record set in 2009. Over half a million people were shot to death in Brazil between 1979 and 2003. 33,335 murder cases were registered across India, about 19,000 murders committed in Russia, approximately 17,000 murders in Colombia (the murder rate was 38 per 100,000 people, in 2008 murders went down to 15,000), approximately 16,000 murders in South Africa, approximately 15,000 murders in the United States, approximately 26,000 murders in Mexico, approximately 13,000 murders in Venezuela, approximately 4,000 murders in El Salvador, approximately 1,400 murders in Jamaica, approximately 550 murders in Canada and approximately 470 murders in Trinidad and Tobago. Pakistan reported 12,580 murders.\n\nIn the United States, 666,160 people were killed between 1960 and 1996. Approximately 90% of murders in the US are committed by males. Between 1976 and 2005, 23.5% of all murder victims and 64.8% of victims murdered by intimate partners were female. For women in the US, homicide is the leading cause of death in the workplace.\n\nIn the US, murder is the leading cause of death for African American males aged 15 to 34. Between 1976 and 2008, African Americans were victims of 329,825 homicides. In 2006, Federal Bureau of Investigation's Supplementary Homicide Report indicated that nearly half of the 14,990 murder victims that year were Black (7421). In the year 2007, there were 3,221 black victims and 3,587 white victims of non-negligent homicides. While 2,905 of the black victims were killed by a black offender, 2,918 of the white victims were killed by white offenders. There were 566 white victims of black offenders and 245 black victims of white offenders. The \"white\" category in the Uniform Crime Reports (UCR) includes non-black Hispanics. In London in 2006, 75% of the victims of gun crime and 79% of the suspects were \"from the African/Caribbean community\".\nMurder demographics are affected by the improvement of trauma care, which has resulted in reduced lethality of violent assaults – thus the murder rate may not necessarily indicate the overall level of social violence.\n\nWorkplace homicide, which tripled during the 1980s, is the fastest growing category of murder in America.\n\nDevelopment of murder rates over time in different countries is often used by both supporters and opponents of capital punishment and gun control. Using properly filtered data, it is possible to make the case for or against either of these issues. For example, one could look at murder rates in the United States from 1950 to 2000, and notice that those rates went up sharply shortly after a moratorium on death sentences was effectively imposed in the late 1960s. This fact has been used to argue that capital punishment serves as a deterrent and, as such, it is morally justified. Capital punishment opponents frequently counter that the United States has much higher murder rates than Canada and most European Union countries, although all those countries have abolished the death penalty. Overall, the global pattern is too complex, and on average, the influence of both these factors may not be significant and could be more social, economic, and cultural.\n\nDespite the immense improvements in forensics in the past few decades, the fraction of murders solved has decreased in the United States, from 90% in 1960 to 61% in 2007. Solved murder rates in major U.S. cities varied in 2007 from 36% in Boston, Massachusetts to 76% in San Jose, California. Major factors affecting the arrest rate include witness cooperation and the number of people assigned to investigate the case.\n\nAccording to scholar Pieter Spierenburg homicide rates per 100,000 in Europe have fallen over the centuries, from 35 per 100,000 in medieval times, to 20 in 1500 AD, 5 in 1700, to below two per 100,000 in 1900.\n\nIn the United States, murder rates have been higher and have fluctuated. They fell below 2 per 100,000 by 1900, rose during the first half of the century, dropped in the years following World War II, and bottomed out at 4.0 in 1957 before rising again. The rate stayed in 9 to 10 range most of the period from 1972 to 1994, before falling to 5 in present times. The increase since 1957 would have been even greater if not for the significant improvements in medical techniques and emergency response times, which mean that more and more attempted homicide victims survive. According to one estimate, if the lethality levels of criminal assaults of 1964 still applied in 1993, the country would have seen the murder rate of around 26 per 100,000, almost triple the actually observed rate of 9.5 per 100,000.\nA similar, but less pronounced pattern has been seen in major European countries as well. The murder rate in the United Kingdom fell to 1 per 100,000 by the beginning of the 20th century and as low as 0.62 per 100,000 in 1960, and was at 1.28 per 100,000 . The murder rate in France (excluding Corsica) bottomed out after World War II at less than 0.4 per 100,000, quadrupling to 1.6 per 100,000 since then.\n\nThe specific factors driving this dynamics in murder rates are complex and not universally agreed upon. Much of the raise in the U.S. murder rate during the first half of the 20th century is generally thought to be attributed to gang violence associated with Prohibition. Since most murders are committed by young males, the near simultaneous low in the murder rates of major developed countries circa 1960 can be attributed to low birth rates during the Great Depression and World War II. Causes of further moves are more controversial. Some of the more exotic factors claimed to affect murder rates include the availability of abortion and the likelihood of chronic exposure to lead during childhood (due to the use of leaded paint in houses and tetraethyllead as a gasoline additive in internal combustion engines).\nIn many countries, in news reports, journalists are typically careful not to call a killing a murder until the perpetrator is convicted of such. After arrest, journalists write that the person was \"arrested on suspicion of murder\". When a prosecutor files charges, the accused is referred to as an \"accused murderer\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1452634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1452634", "title": "Mushroom festival", "text": "Mushroom festival\n\nA mushroom festival is a food festival in which mushrooms are featured. There are numerous mushroom festivals held annually in Telluride, Colorado; Kennett Square, Pennsylvania; Morel Mushroom Festival held in Harrison, Michigan and Boyne City, Michigan, the Fantastic Forage Mushroom Festival held in Laconia, NH, and the Mushroom Mardi Gras Festival held in Morgan Hill, California, Lacey, Washington\n"}
{"id": "42241320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42241320", "title": "Orlov let", "text": "Orlov let\n\nOrlov let (\"Eagle's Flight\") was the name of an anti-terrorist operation conducted by the Montenegrin police to arrest a group of Albanians who planned terrorist attacks and an armed conflict in Albanian-inhabited parts of Montenegro. The group of 17 people planned operations from 2004 to their arrest on the night of 10/11 September 2006. Weapons and explosive material were found in police raids. The group's main operative was the destroying of cultural and religious buildings (Orthodox) in Albanian-inhabited territory. The group was organised by an Albanian association based in Detroit, and members of the Kosovo Liberation Army, from which they received financial aid and smuggled arms into Montenegro. The group was given a total sentence of 51 years of prison. Relations between the state and the Albanian minority strained after the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "37967518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37967518", "title": "Renault Clio Cup United Kingdom", "text": "Renault Clio Cup United Kingdom\n\nThe Renault Clio Cup United Kingdom is an entry level One-make, Touring car racing motor sport category and the current name in the long history of Renault one-make cups in the UK. It currently attracts drivers from across the United Kingdom to compete along with several drivers for European countries. The championship has been run to various regulations over the years, and can trace its history back to 1974. Several former drivers have become successful in other Touring car racing formulae, including Andy Priaulx, who went on to become multiple World Touring Car Championship champion and Jason Plato who is multiple British Touring Car Championship champion. The championship currently runs on the support package of the British Touring Car Championship. The current series promoter is the British Automobile Racing Club, after previously being the promoter from 1974 to 2011. Prior to this, SRO promoted the series in 2012.\n\nRenault have a long history of One-make racing in the UK and the series can trace its root back as far as 1974, when drivers competed in Renault 5 TL's. The championship continued with various other models of the Renault 5 including the Renault 5 TS between 1978?–1979? and the Renault 5 GT Turbo between 1987?–1990. When the Renault 5 was replaced with the Mark I Renault Clio, the championship switched too, using the Mark I between 1991 and 1995. The Renault Sport Spider roadster was used between 1996 and 1999 before returning to the Clio, this time utilizing the newer Renault Sport versions. In 2000 and 2001, the series used the Clio Renaultsport 172, followed by the Clio Renaultsport 182 between 2002 and 2006. Between 2007 and 2009, the Clio Renaultsport 197 was used. This was replaced partway through the 2009 season with the latest Clio Renaultsport 200, which is currently used. However, from the 2014 season, the new Clio Renaultsport 200 Turbo race car will be used for the British championship.\n\nHistorically, the championship has been run using the tires from the French manufacturer Michelin. However, from 2013, tires for the championship will be supplied be Dunlop who also supply tires to other championships on the TOCA package, including the BTCC\n\nThe series' past champion winners includes Andy Priaulx, Jason Plato and Tom Onslow-Cole. Other than that, past drivers of the series that were notable outside of racing were Andrew Ridgeley of the pop group Wham! in 1985 and it introduced actor Rowan Atkinson to motorsport, which he raced seldom between 1984 to 1990. One of his races was documented for his one-off show, \"Driven Man\". The car has since re-emerged for a reunion race in 2004, which he aimed to compete in, but had to be substituted by Perry McCarthy, due to illness. Atkinson bought the car following the race and was auctioned off in a Bonhams auction in 2005.\n\nThe championship currently has 16 races held at eight double header rounds at circuits across England. The series supports the British Touring Car Championship at eight of its ten rounds. In 2012, Brands Hatch held two rounds of the championship, whilst Donington Park, Thruxton, Oulton Park, Snetterton, Rockingham and Sliverstone each held one round. In the past, the series has also formed part of the support package for the British rounds of the World Series by Renault.\n\nOn a race weekend, the drivers have a 30-minute qualifying session, with the fastest times setting the grid for race one and their second fastest times setting the race 2 grid. Races are held over a minimum of 30 miles.\n\nPoints are awarded to the top 20 drivers in each race as well as the driver(s) setting the fastest lap using the following system:\n\nWhen the British Automobile Racing Club returned as Clio Cup UK series promoter in December 2012, they set out their plans for the national championship for the next two years. With the announcement that the current Clio Renaultsport 200 race car will be replaced from 2014 season, Renault UK and the BARC announced a new entry level series to be known as the Michelin Clio Cup Series with Protyre. This championship, which will begin in 2013, is aimed at amateur and track day drivers and will use the current Clio Renaultsport 200 as well as the previous generation Clio Renaultsport 197. A four round, double header calendar was also announced for 2013, visiting four of the UK's top racing circuits. From 2017 onwards, there will be a junior edition of the Renault Clio Cup for young drivers aged 14–17.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29290600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29290600", "title": "Rolling Stone (Uganda)", "text": "Rolling Stone (Uganda)\n\nRolling Stone was a weekly tabloid newspaper published in Kampala, Uganda. The paper published its first issue on 23 August 2010, under the direction of 22-year-old Giles Muhame and two classmates from Kampala's Makerere University. According to Muhame, the paper's title was derived from the local word \"enkurungu\": \"It's a metaphor for something that strikes with lightning speed, that can kill someone if it is thrown at them\". The paper was small, with a circulation of approximately 2000 copies. It suspended publication in November 2010, after the High Court ruled that it had violated the fundamental rights of LGBT Ugandans by attempting to out them and calling for their deaths. One of those listed, David Kato, was subsequently murdered.\n\nThe Ugandan paper is unaffiliated with the American magazine \"Rolling Stone\", which later described the Ugandan paper's actions as \"horrific\" and protested its choice of name.\n\nOn 9 October 2010, the newspaper published a front-page article—titled \"100 Pictures of Uganda's Top Homos Leak\"—that listed the names, photographs and addresses of 100 homosexuals alongside a yellow banner that read \"Hang Them\". The paper also alleged that homosexuals aimed to \"recruit\" Ugandan children. This publication attracted international attention and criticism from human rights organizations, such as Amnesty International, No Peace Without Justice and the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association. According to gay rights activists, many Ugandans have been attacked since the publication as a result of their real or perceived sexual orientation. One woman was reportedly almost killed when her neighbors began to stone her house.\n\nIn a subsequent issue, \"Rolling Stone\" alleged a connection between Somali terrorist group al-Shabaab and Ugandan homosexuals under the headline \"Homo Generals Plotted Kampala Terror Attacks\", charging \"a gay lobby\" with complicity in the July 2010 Kampala suicide bombings.\n\nFollowing a second published edition listing the identities and addresses of alleged homosexuals, the gay rights organization Sexual Minorities Uganda petitioned the Ugandan High Court against the newspaper. On 2 November 2010, the court issued its verdict, ordering the newspaper to stop publishing the identities of Ugandan gays, shut down, and pay 1.5 million Ugandan shillings plus court costs to each of the plaintiffs. The ruling said that these lists and the accompanying incitement to violence threatened the subjects' \"fundamental rights and freedoms\", attacked their right to human dignity, and violated their constitutional right to privacy.\n\nImmediately following the verdict, Muhame told reporters that \"the war against gays will and must continue. We have to protect our children from this dirty homosexual affront\". In January 2011, he announced the paper's intention to appeal the decision. He said that the paper was also gathering signatures of support from Ugandans.\n\nThe unrelated U.S. magazine \"Rolling Stone\", called the newspaper's actions \"horrific\" and stated that \"Rolling Stone\" magazine has \"demanded they [the Ugandan newspaper] cease using our name as a title\". However, the magazine had little legal recourse because, despite copyrighting the name \"Rolling Stone\" in a large number of countries, they had not copyrighted it in Uganda. As publisher Jann Wenner stated, \"There's nothing we can do. We never copyrighted the name in Uganda. We own the copyright for the name in many, many countries. But who would have thought we'd have to own the copyright in Uganda?\"\n\nThe International Press Institute sent a letter to Muhame condemning his actions after his paper was shut down by the countries Constitutional Court. \"IPI believes that when newspapers publish articles that expose private information about individuals who are outside the public eye, and when they call for violence against those individuals, they do a disservice to journalists around the world who are fighting for press freedom...Such transgressions of professional journalistic ethics make all journalists look bad – and make it harder to argue for press freedom without government restriction.\"\n\nSexual Minorities Uganda leader David Kato, one of the activists outed in the article and a co-plaintiff in the lawsuit, was murdered in his home by an intruder who struck him twice on the head with a hammer. The American magazine \"Rolling Stone\", \"The New York Times\" and other news sources suggested that the murder was linked to Kato's high-profile outing in the Ugandan newspaper \"Rolling Stone\", and Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International both called for an investigation into the case and protection for other gay activists.\n\nMuhame condemned the murder and expressed his sympathies for Kato's family, but added that he believed that the paper was not responsible and that the murder was a simple robbery: \"I have no regrets about the story. We were just exposing people who were doing wrong\". Muhame stated to the Ugandan newspaper \"Daily Monitor\", that Kato \"brought death upon himself. He hasn’t lived carefully. Kato was a shame to this country\". To CNN, he said, \"When we called for hanging of gay people, we meant ... after they have gone through the legal process ... I did not call for them to be killed in cold blood like he was\".\n\n"}
{"id": "26207504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26207504", "title": "Single point of failure", "text": "Single point of failure\n\nA single point of failure (SPOF) is a part of a system that, if it fails, will stop the entire system from working. SPOFs are undesirable in any system with a goal of high availability or reliability, be it a business practice, software application, or other industrial system.\n\nSystems can be made robust by adding redundancy in all potential SPOFs. For instance, the owner of a small tree care company may only own one woodchipper. If the chipper breaks, he may be unable to complete his current job and may have to cancel future jobs until he can obtain a replacement.\n\nRedundancy can be achieved at various levels. For instance, the owner of the tree care company may have spare parts ready for the repair of the wood chipper, in case it fails. At a higher level, he may have a second wood chipper that he can bring to the job site. Finally, at the highest level, he may have enough equipment available to completely replace everything at the work site in the case of multiple failures.\n\nThe assessment of a potential SPOF involves identifying the critical components of a complex system that would provoke a total systems failure in case of malfunction. Highly reliable systems should not rely on any such individual component.\n\nIn computing, redundancy can be achieved at the internal component level, at the system level (multiple machines), or site level (replication).\n\nOne would normally deploy a load balancer to ensure high availability for a server cluster at the system level.\n\nIn a high-availability server cluster, each individual server may attain internal component redundancy by having multiple power supplies, hard drives, and other components. System level redundancy could be obtained by having spare servers waiting to take on the work of another server if it fails.\n\nSince a data center is often a support center for other operations such as business logic, it represents a potential SPOF in itself. Thus, at the site level, the entire cluster may be replicated at another location, where it can be accessed in case the primary location becomes unavailable. This is typically addressed as part of an IT disaster recovery (resiliency) program.\n\nPaul Baran and Donald Davies developed packet switching, a key part of \"survivable communications networks\".\nSuch networks including ARPANET and the Internet are designed to have no single point of failure.\nMultiple paths between any two points on the network allow those points to continue communicating with each other, the packets \"routing around\" damage, even after any single failure of any one particular path or any one intermediate node.\n\nNetwork protocols used to prevent SPOF:\n\nIn software engineering, a bottleneck occurs when the capacity of an application or a computer system is severely limited by a single component. The bottleneck has lowest throughput of all parts of the transaction path.\n\nTracking down bottlenecks (sometimes known as \"hot spots\" - sections of the code that execute most frequently - i.e. have the highest execution count) is called performance analysis. Reduction is usually achieved with the help of specialized tools, known as performance analyzers or profilers. The objective being to make those particular sections of code perform as fast as possible to improve overall algorithmic efficiency.\n\nA mistake in just one component can compromise the entire system.\n\nThe concept of a single point of failure has also been applied to fields outside of engineering, computers, and networking, such as corporate supply chain management and transportation management.\n\nDesign structures that create single points of failure include bottlenecks and series circuits (in contrast to parallel circuits).\n\nIn transportation, some noted recent examples of the concept's recent application have included the Nipigon River Bridge in Canada, where a partial bridge failure in January 2016 entirely severed road traffic between Eastern Canada and Western Canada for several days because it is located along a portion of the Trans-Canada Highway where there is no alternate detour route for vehicles to take; and the Norwalk River Railroad Bridge in Norwalk, Connecticut, an aging swing bridge that sometimes gets stuck when opening or closing, disrupting rail traffic on the Northeast Corridor line.\n\nThe concept of a single point of failure has also been applied to the fields of intelligence. Edward Snowden talked of the dangers of being what he described as \"the single point of failure\" – the sole repository of information.\n"}
{"id": "42049851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42049851", "title": "Slashing (crime)", "text": "Slashing (crime)\n\nSlashing is a crime intended to cause bodily harm to a victim. A slashing is typically performed with a knife or other type of bladed or sharp object.\n\nCutting of the throat as to render the victim unable to breathe.\n\nA street crime where a perpetrator permanently disfigures a victim by slicing into their face with a blade.\n\nBoxer Teddy Atlas was involved in a street fight in Stapleton, Staten Island in which his face was severely slashed with a \"007\" flip-knife. The wound took 400 stitches in total to close, with 200 on the outside of his face and 200 on the inside. He is left with a scar that stretches from top to bottom along his left cheek.\n\nActress and comedian Tina Fey has a scar a few inches long on the left side of her chin and cheek, the cause of which remained unexplained to the public until a 2008 \"Vanity Fair\" profile by Maureen Dowd. Dowd reported \"...a faint scar runs across Tina Fey's left cheek, the result of a violent cutting attack by a stranger when Fey was five...\" and subsequently in her autobiographical book, where she revealed \"During the spring semester of kindergarten, I was slashed in the face by a stranger in the alley behind my house... When my face was slashed, my dad held me on his lap in the car to the hospital, applying direct pressure with the swift calm of a veteran and an ex-fireman. I looked up and asked him, ‘Am I going to die?’ ‘Don’t speak,’ he said.\"\n\nActor Tommy Flanagan was the victim of a slashing when he was mugged outside of a club he was working at in Scotland. The slashing on both of his cheeks left him with what is known as a \"Glasgow smile\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2161447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2161447", "title": "Terfenadine", "text": "Terfenadine\n\nTerfenadine is an antihistamine formerly used for the treatment of allergic conditions. It was brought to market by Hoechst Marion Roussel (now Sanofi-Aventis) and was marketed under various brand names, including Seldane in the United States, Triludan in the United Kingdom, and Teldane in Australia. It was superseded by fexofenadine in the 1990s due to the risk of a particular type of disruption of the electrical rhythms of the heart (specifically cardiac arrhythmia caused by QT interval prolongation) and has been withdrawn from markets worldwide.\n\nTerfenadine acts as a peripherally-selective antihistamine, or antagonist of the histamine H receptor. It is a prodrug, generally completely metabolized to the active form fexofenadine in the liver by the enzyme cytochrome P450 3A4. Due to its near complete metabolism by the liver immediately after leaving the gut, terfenadine normally is not measurable in the plasma. Terfenadine itself, however, is cardiotoxic at higher doses, while its major active metabolite is not. Terfenadine, in addition to its antihistamine effects, also acts as a potassium channel blocker (K11.1 encoded by the gene \"hERG\"). Since its active metabolite is not a potassium channel blocker, no cardiotoxicity is associated with fexofenadine. Toxicity is possible after years of continued use with no previous problems as a result of an interaction with other medications such as erythromycin, or foods such as grapefruit. The addition of, or a dosage increase in, these CYP3A4 inhibitors makes it harder for the body to metabolize and remove terfenadine. In larger plasma concentrations, it may lead to toxic effects on the heart's rhythm (e.g. ventricular tachycardia and \"torsades de pointes\").\n\nIn the United States, Seldane was brought to market in 1985 as the first nonsedating antihistamine for the treatment of allergic rhinitis. In June 1990, evidence of serious ventricular arrhythmias among those taking Seldane prompted the FDA to issue a report on the risk factors associated with concomitant use of the drug with macrolide antibiotics and ketoconazole. Two months later, the FDA required the manufacturer to send a letter to all physicians, alerting them to the problem; in July 1992, the existing precautions were elevated to a black box warning and the issue attracted mass media attention in reports that people with liver disease or who took ketoconazole, an antifungal agent, or the antibiotic erythromycin, could suffer cardiac arrhythmia if they also took Seldane.\n\nIn January 1997, the same month when the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had earlier approved a generic version of Seldane made by IVAX Corporation of Miami, the FDA recommended terfenadine-containing drugs be removed from the market and physicians consider alternative medications for their patients. Seldane (and Seldane-D, terfenadine combined with the decongestant pseudoephedrine) were removed from the U.S. market by their manufacturer in late 1997 after the FDA approval of Allegra-D (fexofenadine/pseudoephedrine). Terfenadine-containing drugs were subsequently removed from the Canadian market in 1999, and are no longer available for prescription in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "58019881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58019881", "title": "The Breeders Tour 2017", "text": "The Breeders Tour 2017\n\nThe Breeders' 2017 tour consisted of twenty-one concerts in Europe and the United States. A date in Dublin was canceled due to Hurricane Orphelia. They opened for Arcade Fire at two of the dates. Compositions that the Breeders played on the tour included their 2018 single \"Wait in the Car\", the Pixies' \"Gigantic\", and songs by the Amps.\n\n"}
{"id": "31421041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31421041", "title": "The Donner Party (1992 film)", "text": "The Donner Party (1992 film)\n\nThe Donner Party is a 1992 documentary film that traces the history of the Donner Party, an ill-fated pioneer group that trekked from Springfield, Illinois to Sutter's Fort, California - a disastrous journey of 2500 miles made famous by the tales of cannibalism the survivors told upon reaching their destination. The film, narrated by David McCullough, premiered at the Telluride Mountainfilm Festival in May 1992 with an introductory lecture on the Donner Party by noted Western historian David Lavender. It subsequently aired on PBS as part of the \"American Experience\" program in October, 1992.\n\nThe film was produced using a combination of archival materials, including letters, photographs, paintings, and diaries from members of the Donner Party, as well as new footage shot of the trail the Party journeyed along in Oregon and California. Animated maps are used to show the route the Donner Party took. On-camera experts include Harold Schindler, Joseph King, Donald Buck, and Wallace Stegner. Timothy Hutton, Amy Madigan, Frances Sternhagen, George Plimpton, Lois Smith, and Eli Wallach perform the letters and diaries written by the Donner Party before, during, and after their journey.\n\nIn 1846, a large wagon train left Springfield, Illinois for California. In July of that year, following the advice of \"The Emigrants' Guide to Oregon and California\" written by a pro-emigration promoter named Lansford Hastings, the Donner party left the main body of emigrants to take a never before tried “shortcut” across the Great Basin.\n\nThe Donner Party arrived at the foot of the Sierra Nevada, the last mountain pass before California, weeks behind schedule and short of food. The first blizzard of the season started only one day before they planned to head up and over the Sierra Nevada. With 95% of their journey already completed, they would be forced to wait months to make the final push, enduring the most unfavorable Sierra Nevada winter in history. The group was trapped on the eastern side of the Sierra for five months, culminating in death and cannibalism. Of the 87 men, women, and children in the Donner Party only 46 survived to reach California.\n\n\"TIME\" magazine called the film \"a grueling, unforgettable trip\" and named it one of the top ten television programs of the year. \"USA Today\"’s Matt Roush wrote, “Historical narratives rarely have as much dire beauty as Ric Burns’s \"The Donner Party\", a documentary that aches with the austere eloquence of human desperation.” Kevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" characterized Burns as a \"low key\" director and wrote that the film \"has everything: heroism, cowardice, stupefying folly and price and a truly terrible irony.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8790920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8790920", "title": "The Truth (The X-Files)", "text": "The Truth (The X-Files)\n\n\"The Truth\" is the collective name for the 201st and 202nd episodes of the American science fiction television series \"The X-Files\". The last episodes of the show's ninth season, \"The Truth\" originally served as the finale for the entire series, until the return of the series in January 2016. First aired together on the Fox network on May 19, 2002, the episodes were written by series creator Chris Carter and directed by Kim Manners. \"The Truth\" was the most-watched episode of the ninth season and was seen by 13.25 million viewers upon its initial broadcast. The finale received mixed reviews, with many commentators criticizing the episode's lack of closure. Others were pleased with the full return of actor David Duchovny to the series, as well as the episode's conclusion.\n\nThe show centers on FBI special agents who work on unsolved paranormal cases called X-Files; this season focuses on the investigations of John Doggett (Robert Patrick), Monica Reyes (Annabeth Gish), and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson). In this episode, Walter Skinner (Mitch Pileggi) and Scully learn that Mulderwho has been missing for almost a yearhas been placed under military arrest for the supposed murder of Knowle Rohrer (Adam Baldwin), one of the government's secret \"Super Soldiers\". Mulder breaks out of prison with the help of Skinner, Reyes, Doggett, Scully and Alvin Kersh (James Pickens, Jr.). Mulder and Scully travel to New Mexico where helicopters destroy an Anasazi cliff dwelling ruin along with The Smoking Man (William B. Davis).\n\nThe episode featured the return of Duchovny—following his departure after the eighth-season finale—as well as several other recurring characters. \"The Truth\" served to conclude many long-time story arcs while creating new ones for a possible film franchise. Shooting took place at various California locales, including a hydroelectric power plant east of Fresno and Anza-Borrego Desert State Park. Carter would return to \"The X-Files\" universe with a feature film, \"\" (2008), and has publicly discussed the possibility of a third film, which would focus on the impending extraterrestrial invasion revealed in \"The Truth\".\n\nAt the Mount Weather military base, Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) appears with several government officials. He gains access to highly classified documents on a secure computer system, and is shocked and dismayed to read the documents, which provide details of the final colonization of the planet by alien forces. Before he can continue reading, Mulder hears another person approaching. He hides quickly and observes Knowle Rohrer (Adam Baldwin), a former friend of John Doggett (Robert Patrick) but who has been irreversibly transformed into an enemy \"Super Soldier\", approach the computer system. Rohrer immediately realizes the system has been accessed. Mulder attempts to attack Rohrer, but Rohrer overpowers him. Mulder frantically flees, but Rohrer outflanks him. In a violent altercation, Mulder flips Rohrer off a catwalk onto high-voltage wiring, and Rohrer apparently dies by electrocution. Mulder attempts to escape, but is quickly arrested by several soldiers.\n\nNews of Mulder's arrest spreads to the FBI. Upon hearing that he has resurfaced, and in such a dire manner, Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) and Walter Skinner (Mitch Pileggi) visit him in military custody. During his time in captivity, Mulder receives mysterious visits from two phantoms of his past: Alex Krycek (Nicholas Lea) and X (Steven Williams). Meanwhile, Scully and Skinner go to great lengths to get him released, but are unsuccessful. Mulder's fate is ultimately made the subject of a military tribunal with Deputy Director Alvin Kersh (James Pickens, Jr.) in charge. At the outset, it appears Mulder will become the hopeless victim of a show trial stacked against him.\n\nSkinner takes Mulder's defense, while Scully, Doggett, Monica Reyes (Annabeth Gish), Marita Covarrubias (Laurie Holden), Gibson Praise (Jeff Gulka) and Jeffrey Spender (Chris Owens) testify on Mulder's behalf. The prosecution presents Rohrer's body as evidence against Mulder. Aware that Rohrer is a seemingly-invincible \"Super Soldier\", Scully performs a medical examination and proves that the body is not that of Rohrer. Despite this, the evidence is rejected, given that the autopsy was not authorized, and the defense is overruled. Mulder is sentenced to death for the murder of a military officer. Later, Doggett, Skinner, Reyes, and Scully help Mulder escape, with the unexpected help of Kersh who decided he should have let Mulder go in the first place. Despite being advised to immediately leave the continent via Canada, Mulder instead takes Scully to New Mexico. On their way, Mulder receives a visit by three additional ghosts: The Lone Gunmen, who advise him to flee for his life rather than continue his pursuit of the truth. Mulder politely declines. Meanwhile, Doggett and Reyes find their office emptied, suggesting that the X-Files have been closed down for the third time.\n\nMulder and Scully arrive at Anasazi ruins to find a \"wise man\" who they believe can make sense of the classified documents Mulder has read. They discover the so-called \"wise man\" is none other than The Smoking Man (William B. Davis), who, still alive after all, is hiding out to survive the colonization—an event that will happen on December 22, 2012, the predicted end of the world. Outside, Reyes and Doggett arrive and prepare to fight Rohrer, who has been sent to kill Mulder and The Smoking Man. Rohrer is killed when the magnetite in the ruins affects his superhuman body. Switching cars with Mulder and Scully, Doggett and Reyes drive off. Black helicopters destroy the cliff dwellings—and The Smoking Man within—thinking that Mulder is still inside before flying away. Doggett and Reyes are last seen speeding away.\n\nIn a motel room in Roswell, New Mexico, Mulder and Scully prepare for bed and talk. Mulder explains his belief \"that the dead are not lost to us. That they speak to us as part of something greater than us—greater than any alien force. And if you and I are powerless now, I want to believe that if we listen to what's speaking, it can give us the power to save ourselves.\" Despite their slim chance for success, Mulder declares, \"Maybe there's hope\", as they lay back, content in each other's arms, in a loving embrace.\n\nThe episode was written by series creator Chris Carter. He noted, \"It's the end—you don't get another chance. So you'd better put everything you've ever wanted to put in into the episode. There were things to distract us from what was really going on. The band was breaking up.\" He expounded on the idea, saying that executive producer Frank Spotnitz and he decided \"it was probably time to go [...] it was strange to be writing these things knowing it was the last time we'd see Scully doing certain things or hear Mulder saying certain things.\" Spotnitz explained that Carter made the announcement in January so that \"we had time to wrap our minds around the end and plan for it and give all of the characters their due.\" Gish later said, \"I have a great respect for the elegant way in which they're closing the curtain\". Actor Bruce Harwood, who played John Fitzgerald Byers on the show, called the finale the \"passing of a generation\".\n\nSeveral of the episode's scenes feature elements that refer to the earlier installments. The final scene in which Mulder and Scully speak in a hotel room is reminiscent of the series' pilot episode. Furthermore, in \"The Truth,\" it is revealed to Mulder by The Smoking Man that the aliens plan to colonize the earth on December 22, 2012, an event that, according to the show, the Mayans predicted. This is a throw-back to the second season episode \"Red Museum,\" which featured members of a new religious movement who believed that the year 2012 would bring about the dawning of the New Age.\n\nBefore the release of the 2008 film \"\", Carter expressed an intent to make a third \"X-Files\" feature film that would focus on the impending alien invasion revealed in this episode, depending on the success of \"The X-Files: I Want to Believe\". Following the release of \"The X-Files: I Want to Believe\", Carter, Spotnitz, Duchovny, and Anderson all expressed their interest in making one. However, on January 17, 2015, Fox Television Group chairman and CEO Gary Newman revealed that there was network interest in reviving \"The X-Files\", not as a movie franchise, but as a limited run television event.\n\nWith this episode, Duchovny rejoined the main cast of \"The X-Files\" after his departure following the eighth season finale \"Existence\". The episode marks the only time that all five principal actors—Duchovny, Anderson, Patrick, Gish, and Pileggi—are credited together in the opening titles. Mulder, Scully, and the Smoking Man are the only characters to appear in both this episode and the series' pilot. This episode is the fourth of only four episodes in season nine where Duchovny appeared, the others being \"Trust No 1\", \"Jump the Shark\", and \"William\". Duchovny appeared in the first two via archival footage and only made a small cameo in the third. The episode marks the return of several characters who had either previously been killed off or had left the show, including X, who was killed in the season four opener \"Herrenvolk\"; Alex Krycek, who was shot and killed by Skinner in the eighth-season finale \"Existence\"; The Smoking Man, who was purportedly killed in \"Requiem\"; Gibson Praise, who was last seen in the eighth-season episode \"Without\"; The Lone Gunmen, who were killed off in the ninth-season episode \"Jump the Shark\"; Jeffrey Spender, who originally was killed off in the sixth season episode \"One Son\" but reappeared in the ninth-season episode \"William\"; and Marita Covarrubias, who last appeared in the seventh season finale \"Requiem\".\n\nOriginally, this episode was to feature the recurring character Shannon McMahon. However, actress Lucy Lawless became pregnant shortly after filming the two-part episode, \"Nothing Important Happened Today\" and was not available for subsequent episodes. Actress Julia Vera was called in to play the role of the woman who is helping the Smoking Man live in the Anasazi ruins. Vera had previously appeared in the sixth season two-part episode \"Dreamland\". She later called the opportunity \"amazing\" and declared that \"my greatest experience was \"The X-Files\"\". The final scene of the episode was originally going to feature the Toothpick Man, the alien leader of the New Syndicate played by Alan Dale, informing U.S. President George W. Bush, played by actor Gary Newton, of Mulder's escape. The scene was filmed, but was not included in the broadcast version; executive producer Frank Spotnitz later said that he was \"so happy\" that the producers cut the scene, noting that—despite \"a lot of debate about it, on both sides\"—the scene was unable to top the final scene with Mulder and Scully. On the DVD's audio commentary, the producers mentioned that they had considered filming the shot on the Oval Office set created by \"The West Wing\", a serial drama created by Aaron Sorkin that was originally broadcast on NBC. In addition, they originally wanted to have Martin Sheen appear as his character on \"The West Wing\", Josiah Bartlet, instead of Bush, noting that the cameo would have been \"a nice, sort of wink\" to the television audience. Despite being cut from the final episode, the shot was featured as a deleted scene on the season nine video release.\n\nThe majority of the episode—like the rest of seasons six, seven, eight and nine—was filmed in Los Angeles, California. The first scene, featuring Mulder breaking into a military base, was shot in a hydroelectric power plant east of Fresno, California. The rooms that were featured in the episode were the main rooms for the power plant that \"The X-Files\" design team redecorated; the crew later called the set the \"war room\". Most of the decoration and interior scene was done by the visual effect crew; the only visible part seen in real life was a large sump pump. Bill Roe, the cinematographer for the episode, spent \"four or five days lighting [the] set\" for filming. Kim Manners called his work \"a great job\". The scenes that take place in the main computer terminal room were shot on a 20th Century Fox sound stage, whereas the scenes with Mulder being tortured by the military guards were shot at Fort MacArthur, a former military base in San Pedro, California that was decommissioned in 1974, including The Marine Mammal Care Center located at Fort MacArthur. Filming the court room was one of the \"most challenging sequences\" Manners had ever done. Carter wanted the courtroom to have no spectators and no jury. This meant that Manners had to shoot each scene with a limited amount of actors and make them look \"fresh\". Manners was terrified to film the 40-page long courtroom scene, pointing out that the show was basically re-telling a nine-year history of \"The X-Files\". Corey Kaplan designed the set.\n\nThe Anasazi ruins were constructed in Anza-Borrego Desert State Park. Location manager Mac Gordon later noted that, due to the presence of a rare \"spiny black horned toad\" in the area, he and his crew were forced to hire several biologists to locate any lizards in the area and move them elsewhere. In addition, Gordon had a difficult time persuading the park rangers to build and then blow up faux-ruins. He explained, \"we were on a state park property that was an off road park, with motorcycles and [All-terrain vehicles] flying all over the place, but they still blanched when I said we have to build Indian ruins and then blow it up.\" However, the cameo of The Smoking Man was filmed on the 20th Century Fox sound stage. Manners noted that Davis had \"a hell of a time\" trying to smoke his cigarettes through a hole in his neck, because the hole was \"phony\". The scene featuring The Smoking Man being burnt up by the fire from a missile was done via computer animation. The missiles were created via CGI technology by animator Mat Beck. The helicopter, however, included real smoke bombs. A shot of William B. Davis was overlapped with fire, and eventually a skull to give the effect that The Smoking Man's flesh was burnt away. Paul Rabwin later called the scene a \"great sequence\".\n\nThe last scene of the episode shot was between Anderson and Duchovny and was called \"extremely tough\" by Manners, due to it being \"very emotional\". He noted that the scene \"sums up the series\" about a \"man who believed and a woman who was skeptical but became a believer\". The scene was filmed at an actual motel, called La Cresenta. The location had previously been used in episodes \"Sein Und Zeit\" and \"This is Not Happening\".\n\nThe final scene, featuring a conversation between Mulder and Scully, has been examined by author V. Alan White due to its perceived religious undertones. In the book \"The Philosophy of The X-Files\", he notes that the final scene \"undermines Mulder's seemingly persistent scorn of traditional\" religion and his subtle acceptance of theism. In previous episodes—mainly those dealing with Scully's Catholicism—Mulder shows a lack of approval when it came to the concept of organized religion, often pointing out that \"theologians can be just as dogmatic as scientists\" when it comes to unexplained phenomena. White proposes that this needling may be intentional on Mulder's part, as a form of \"ironic reversal of [Scully's] skepticism about the paranormal\". However, the final lines of \"The Truth\" see Mulder talking about a belief in \"something greater than us, greater than any alien force\". White also points out the fact that during this scene Mulder grabs Scully's gold cross, an icon that symbolizes her belief through much of the series.\n\nSeveral of the episode's scenes and motifs have been compared to popular myths and legends. Michelle Bush, in her book \"Myth-X\", equated Mulder's overall quest to that of the search for the Holy Grail. She notes that in \"The Truth\", Mulder and Scully metaphorically \"find their way to the Grail castle\" only to discover that the Fisher King—the wounded knight charged with protecting the secret—is actually The Smoking Man. Furthermore, Bush compared the final scene of the episode—featuring Mulder musing about hope regarding an alien invasion—to the myth of Pandora's Box. According to legend, the ancient Greek gods gave Pandora a box filled with evils and told her not to open it. Due to her curiosity, she disobeyed and unleashed various calamities unto the world. Bush argues that the Syndicate's tampering with alien technology—such as their alien-human hybrid experiments—are similar to the contents of the box. She notes that, in both cases, \"man's curiosity is his downfall\". In the end, however, both Pandora's box and the world of \"The X-Files\" contain hope, which, in the legend, was the only thing in the box that Pandora did not let go of.\n\n\"The Truth\" was originally aired on the Fox network on May 19, 2002, and became the most-watched episode of the ninth season, receiving the season's highest Nielsen ratings. Nielsen ratings are audience measurement system that determine the audience size and composition of television programming in the United States. \"The Truth\" earned a household rating of 7.5, meaning that it was seen by 7.5 percent of the nation's estimated households. It was viewed by a total of 13.25 million viewers in the United States. On the date of its airing, the episode ranked third in its timeslot, behind the season finale of \"\" and the heavily promoted reunion of \"The Cosby Show\". \"The Truth\", however, placed ahead of the season finale of \"The Practice\". In the United Kingdom and Ireland, the episode made its first appearance on Sky1 on September 26, 2002 and received 1.03 million viewers, placing \"The X-Files\" second in the top ten broadcasts for Sky1 for that week, behind \"The Simpsons\". The episode was included on \"The X-Files Mythology, Volume 4 – Super Soldiers\", a DVD collection that contains installments involved with the alien \"Super Soldiers\" arc.\n\nThe entry received mixed reviews by critics; the main reason for criticism was that, instead of creating a conclusion, the episode raised new questions for the audience. Robert Shearman and Lars Pearson, in their book \"Wanting to Believe: A Critical Guide to The X-Files, Millennium & The Lone Gunmen\", gave the episode a scathing review and awarded it one star out of five. The two, despite calling the opening \"promising\", derided the episode's ending—especially the revelation of alien colonization of December 22, 2012—writing, \"is this really what the series was about?\" Furthermore, Shearman and Pearson concluded that the problem with the episode was that the show, which he called \"brilliant—frequently, truly brilliant\" decided \"to define itself in the summing up\" with the episode, which did not answer very many questions. UGO named the episode the fourteenth \"Worst Series Finale\" and wrote that the episode—and the show's eighth and ninth seasons by extension—were negatively affected by the series' lack of a defining plot line. The article noted that, while the episode claimed to wrap up the story arcs for the series, \"the trial of Mulder ultimately resulted in very little satisfying payoff to the series' overarching mysteries\". Joyce Millman, writing for \"The New York Times\", after the premiere of \"The Truth\", said of the show: \"The most imaginative show on television has finally reached the limits of its imagination.\" M.A. Crang, in his book \"Denying the Truth: Revisiting The X-Files after 9/11\", was critical of the episode's trial sequences. While he stated that these scenes \"do a good job of bringing together the many disparate threads of this arc\", he felt that they were \"interminably dull\".\n\nNot all reviews were critical. Tom Kessenich, in his book \"Examinations\", wrote a rather positive review of the episode. He noted that, while the episode \"told us nothing of significance\" regarding the \"big picture\" mythology story arc, the chance to see Mulder and Scully together one last time resulted in \"an exquisite Mulder-Scully moment\". He was particularly pleased with the final scene, noting that it was an appropriate conclusion; he called it \"fitting\", as well as \"wonderful\". Kessenich maintained that, were it not for the return of Duchovny, \"nobody would have given a damn about the end of this series.\" Julie Salamon of \"The New York Times\" gave the episode a positive review. Salamon noted that \"Until the end, the series maintained its mesmerizing visual gloominess, cleverly punctuated with suggestive plays of color and light\". She claimed the show \"also retained its conspiracy-theory heart that has appealed so greatly to viewers\". John C. Snider of SciFiDimensions praised the episode, stating \"The Truth is a satisfying conclusion to the series, with plenty of twists and turns, a few surprise guest appearances, and an explosive finale complete with requisite black helicopters. The romantics among us will also be pleased with the culmination of the Mulder/Scully relationship\".\n\nIn 2011, the finale was ranked number twenty-two on the TV Guide Network special, \"TV's Most Unforgettable Finales\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52105771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52105771", "title": "Theatre Royal, Aldershot", "text": "Theatre Royal, Aldershot\n\nThe Theatre Royal was a theatre in Aldershot in Hampshire which opened in 1891 and was demolished in 1959. The teenage Charlie Chaplin appeared there in 1904 and the actor James Mason is believed to have made his stage début at the theatre in 1931.\n\nLocated on the corner of Gordon Road and Birchett Road in Aldershot, the Theatre Royal replaced the Apollo Music Hall which had been on the corner of Union Street and Grosvenor Road in Aldershot from 1856 until it was destroyed by a fire in February 1889 during a performance of \"Monte Cristo & Co\". Originally a music hall, the Theatre Royal was regularly visited by touring companies of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company. From 1887 this theatre was run by Clarence Sounes. The new theatre was designed by the theatre architects Bertie Crewe and W. G. R. Sprague. \n\nThe singer and comedian Arthur Lloyd appeared at the theatre in a tour of his play \"Ballyvogan\" in 1891. The theatre was extensively rebuilt and remodelled by Sounes and opened on 15 October 1900 as the New Theatre Royal with a production of \"The Private Secretary\". Charlie Chaplin, who had made his first stage appearance in Aldershot in 1894 returned to the town in May 1904 as a professional actor to play Billy the Page Boy in a tour of William Gillette's play \"Sherlock Holmes\", with Harry Arthur Saintsbury in the title role. \n\nThe aviator Samuel Franklin Cody was in a box in the theatre in 1912 when, being observed by the audience he was invited to step to the front of the box to talk about the aeroplanes he was developing. The English Opera Company appeared here in March 1914 in \"The Bohemian Girl\", \"Il Trovatore\", \"Don Giovanni\" and \"Cavalleria Rusticana\", among other works. In 1917 the curtain raiser \"Ida Collaborates\" by Noël Coward and Esmé Wynne-Tyson was performed at the theatre.\n\nThis new theatre was very small on a small site and could only seat 881 in total, with 197 in the stalls, 220 in the pit, 84 in the Dress Circle, and 350 in the gallery at the rear of the dress circle with its own entrance from Gordon Road. There were two boxes which seated 30 in total on each side at Dress Circle level, with elaborate plasterwork on the dress circle and box fronts. The proscenium opening was 24 feet wide and 26 feet deep with the flies 32 feet high. In addition there were eight dressing rooms, a manager's office and a band room with the stalls, pit and circle each having its own licensed bar.\n\nFrom 1925 to 1926 the theatre was owned by local businessman W. A. 'Willie' Rubick (1869-1926) on whose death the theatre transferred to his widow who sold it in 1928. During the 1930s the theatre was owned by Town & Country Theatres who also owned the Duchess Theatre in London. The actor James Mason is believed to have made his stage début here in 1931 in \"The Rascal\". However, some sources claim this was at the nearby Hippodrome Theatre. The Theatre Royal went bankrupt in the 1930s and was reopened as a Variety Theatre by Ben Garcia in 1940 who managed it during World War II. Aldershot being a Garrison Town, much of the audience at this time was male leading to a number of nude revues being held at the theatre. Other acts at this time included Todd Slaughter in the melodrama \"Jack the Ripper\", Billy Reid and his accordion band with Dorothy Squires as his vocalist, and Phyllis Dixey in her revue \"Peek A Boo\".\n\nFrom 1946 to 1948 the Theatre Royal was home to Harry Hanson's Court Players. In the late 1940s, as her film career floundered, Jessie Matthews ran an amateur theatre group at the theatre. In 1948 Garcia leased the theatre to another management who formed the Aldershot Repertory Company who put on plays there including \"Pygmalion\" in 1950 starring Jessie Matthews until their final production, the pantomime \"Aladdin\" in December 1952. Following this there was a short season of repertory theatre by the Arthur Brough Players but the theatre again went bankrupt and finally closed. A backstage fire in 1957 lead to great damage and the Theatre Royal was demolished in 1959. A block of flats, Matinée House, occupies the site today.\n\n"}
{"id": "7045354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7045354", "title": "This Is Your Time (Michael W. Smith album)", "text": "This Is Your Time (Michael W. Smith album)\n\nThis Is Your Time is Michael W. Smith's fourteenth studio album, released on January 12, 1999. All the songs from this album, except \"This Is Your Time\" and \"This Is Your Time (Reprise)\", were originally recorded for his previous studio album \"Live the Life\", but did not make the final cut for the album.\n\nThe title track was inspired by the initial news report that Columbine shooting victim Cassie Bernall was killed for answering \"yes\" to the question \"Do you believe in God?\" Smith co-wrote the song with Wes King, having enlisted his help knowing that he wanted to write about Columbine but did not want to exploit a tragedy. The music video features a short video clip of Bernall talking about her religious beliefs and how she wanted to spread the word of God at the beginning.\n\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "6554855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6554855", "title": "Thundersport 500", "text": "Thundersport 500\n\nThe Thundersport 500 is a three-make motorcycle racing series organised by the UK Club Thundersport Ltd. Until 2009, the series was called the Honda CB500 Cup, before the rules were changed to allow the use of Kawasaki ER-5 and Suzuki GS500 motorcycles. Limited modifications are allowed and many are for safety reasons only. \n\nSébastien Charpentier dominated the inaugural French CB500 Cup in 1996. The UK series began a year later and was won by James Toseland, whose reward was a contract with the Castrol Honda European Supersport team. Honda France also took Charpentier to the European Supersport championship in 1998.\n\nIn 1998 the UK series saw the emergence of James Ellison, who went on to win two European Superstock 600 Championship titles, a British Superbike (BSB) Privateer title and World Endurance title, before moving to MotoGP.\n\nDropped as a British Superbike support class for 2000, the CB500 Cup was picked up by the New Era Motorcycle Club, who ran the class for a further 9 years until the club's closure at the end of 2008.\n\nThe French series also still runs to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "21381576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21381576", "title": "Twain and Shaw Do Lunch", "text": "Twain and Shaw Do Lunch\n\nTwain and Shaw Do Lunch, formerly known as Shaw and Twain Do Lunch, was written by Chambers Stevens and made its world premiere at Miami's New Theatre in December 2011. It is based on a real meeting between Mark Twain and George Bernard Shaw. The full-length comedic play has won the Fourteenth Annual Long Beach Playhouse New Works Festival in Long Beach, CA, the 2005 Palm Springs International Playwriting Festival for Best Comedy, and has also appeared in the Futurefest at the Dayton Playhouse.\n"}
{"id": "27378900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27378900", "title": "USAC Road Racing Championship", "text": "USAC Road Racing Championship\n\nThe USAC Road Racing Championship was a sports car racing series in the United States held from 1958 until 1962. The series was organized by the United States Auto Club as a fully professional alternative to the Sports Car Club of America's SCCA National Sports Car Championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "1168707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168707", "title": "World Ballroom Dance Champions", "text": "World Ballroom Dance Champions\n\nThis page lists the official World Champions – Professional Ballroom of the World Dance Council (WDC), and its historical predecessors. The championships are authorized and organized under the auspices of the WDC. The designation \"Ballroom\" replaces the previously used \"Modern\" or \"Standard\" in WDC terminology; it does not include the latin dances.\n\nWorld Championships of a sort have been held in ballroom dancing since 1909 when Camille de Rhynal held annual championships in Paris. Records of the years prior to the First World War are sketchy, and it is only since 1922 when the sport split into professional and amateur levels that complete records have been kept. The 1922 championships were also the first to award a single 'world championship' as opposed to titles in the individual dances. The World Championships were held in France from 1925 to 1939, in Paris except for one year in Nice.\n\nThese annual competitions only became official in 1936, and since 1937 the title was held by dancers from the United Kingdom for the rest of that century. With the outbreak of the Second World War, the championships were put on hold for six years. Following its revival, the professional ballroom dancing world was becoming more and more fragmented as competing organizations vied for domination. Finally, in September 1950 the ICBD (International Council of Ballroom Dancing) was founded, becoming the world's first international professional dance organisation, and all other competitions claiming to be the 'World Championships' were boycotted by member nations.\n\nThe Championships returned once again in 1959 under the control of the ICBD, though that year was something of a trial run. The first officially awarded championship of the new series came in 1960, and have continued since then. The ICBD was renamed as the \"World Dance & DanceSport Council\" (WD&DSC), and renamed again as the WDC.\n\nThe Professional Ballroom section (occasionally called Professional Modern in British tradition) of DanceSport) covers the dances waltz, foxtrot, quickstep, tango and Viennese waltz.\n\n"}
{"id": "19245719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19245719", "title": "Yiohan", "text": "Yiohan\n\nThe Yiohan was the name of a ship involved in human trafficking. It made its way to the coast of Sicily, on the night of December 25, 1996, carrying illegal immigrants from Sri Lanka, India and Pakistan. Its drunken captain Yusuf Al Halal forced over 300 immigrants at gunpoint onto another smaller ship. Survivors claim that he deliberately steered and rammed the much larger \"Yiohan\" into the smaller wooden ship, thereby causing the deaths of 283 people. He was charged with murder, as he did not make any attempt to rescue survivors. The charges against him were however dropped as the incident happened 19 miles away from the Sicilian coast in international waters and didn't fall under Italian jurisdiction. The incident was downplayed and denied until 2001, when a fisherman found an ID card of a drowned Sri Lankan victim and contacted a journalist of newspaper \"La Repubblica\" in Rome.\n\n"}
