{"id": "39606699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39606699", "title": "Adoration of the Magi (Bosch, New York)", "text": "Adoration of the Magi (Bosch, New York)\n\nThe Adoration of the Magi is an oil painting on wood panel by Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, executed around 1475. It is housed in the Metropolitan Museum, New York, US. A prominent feature of this painting is the strong perspective effect and also the copious use of gold leaf which is not very typical for Bosch. The pigments employed are red lake, azurite, lead-tin-yellow and ochres.\n\nThe precise authorship of this panel is and has been disputed, but in 2016 the Bosch Research and Conservation Project attributed it to Bosch based on evidence in the underdrawing.\n\n\n\n\n<BR>\n"}
{"id": "171626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171626", "title": "Ali (film)", "text": "Ali (film)\n\nAli is a 2001 American biographical sports drama film written, produced and directed by Michael Mann. The film focuses on ten years in the life of the boxer Muhammad Ali, played by Will Smith, from 1964 to 1974, featuring his capture of the heavyweight title from Sonny Liston, his conversion to Islam, criticism of the Vietnam War, and banishment from boxing, his return to fight Joe Frazier in 1971, and, finally, his reclaiming the title from George Foreman in the Rumble in the Jungle fight of 1974. It also touches on the great social and political upheaval in the United States following the assassinations of Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr.\n\nThe film was well received by critics, but was unsuccessful at the box office. Smith and Jon Voight received Academy Award nominations for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor, respectively.\n\nThe film begins with Cassius Clay Jr. before his championship debut against then heavyweight champion Sonny Liston. During the pre-fight weigh-in Clay heavily taunts Liston (such as calling Liston a \"big ugly bear\"). In the fight Clay is able to dominate the early rounds of the match, but halfway through he complains of a burning feeling in his eyes (implying that Liston has tried to cheat) and says he is unable to continue. However, his trainer/manager Angelo Dundee gets him to keep fighting. Once Clay is able to see again he easily dominates the fight and right before round seven Liston quits, making Clay the second youngest heavyweight champion at the time after Floyd Patterson. Clay spends valued time with Malcolm X and the two decide to take a trip to Africa.\n\nClay is then invited to the home of Nation of Islam leader Elijah Muhammad where he is granted the name Muhammad Ali due to his status of World Heavyweight Champion. His father, Cassius Clay Sr. disapproves of this. Ali marries Sonji Roi, an ex-Playboy Bunny, despite her not being Muslim and not abiding by sex segregation. While at home with his wife and children, Malcolm X is called by the Nation of Islam and is informed that his suspension has been extended and Ali will not go to Africa. However, Ali takes the trip to Africa where he finds Malcolm X, but later refuses to speak to him, honoring the wishes of Elijah Muhammad. He is extremely distraught when Malcolm is later assassinated.\n\nUpon returning to America, Ali goes against Sonny Liston a second time and knocks him out in the first round. He and Sonji divorce after she continually objects to certain obligations Muslim women have, notably Muslim dress customs.\n\nAfter being officially called to fight in the Vietnam War with the U.S. Army, Ali refuses, and is subsequently stripped of his boxing license, passport and title, additionally facing five years in prison. Ali marries 17-year-old Belinda Boyd. After a three-year hiatus, his conviction is overturned and in his comeback fight, he goes against Jerry Quarry and wins by technical knockout in three rounds when Quarry gets a cut in his eye.\n\nAli attempts to regain the Heavyweight Championship against Joe Frazier. Dubbed the Fight of the Century, Frazier has the upper hand against Ali for most of the rounds. In the fifteenth round, he defeats Ali by decision, giving Ali the first loss of his career. When Frazier loses the championship to George Foreman, Ali makes a decision to fight Foreman and become the first boxer to win his title a second time.\n\nForeman and Ali go to Kinshasa, Zaire for the Rumble in the Jungle fight. While there, Ali meets a woman named Veronica Porché, and has an affair with her. After reading rumors of his infidelity through newspapers, his wife Belinda travels to Zaire to confront him about this. Ali says he is unsure as to whether he really loves Veronica or not, and just wants to focus on his upcoming title shot.\n\nFor a good portion of the fight against Foreman, Ali leans back against the ropes and covers up, letting Foreman wildly throw punches at him. During the fight, Ali realizes that he has to react sooner or else he will be knocked out or possibly die in the ring. As the rounds go on, Foreman tires himself out and Ali takes advantage. He quickly knocks out the tired Foreman, and the film ends with Ali regaining the Heavyweight Championship of which he was previously stripped.\n\nThe project began in 1992 when Producer Paul Ardaji optioned the movie rights to Muhammad Ali's life story. Nearing the end of his option period, Ardaji signed a contract with Sony Pictures, joining forces with Producer Jon Peters as producing partner. Producer Jon Peters started developing the film in 1994. Gregory Allen Howard wrote the initial draft of the script, which had the working title \"Power and Grace\". Howard's draft focused on Ali's life from 12 to 40 years old, and his relationship with his father. Howard was replaced by writers Stephen J. Rivele and Chris Wilkinson, and by 1998 the biopic was set up at Columbia Pictures, with Will Smith attached to star and the possibility of Ron Howard directing. During the filming of \"Wild Wild West\", Smith presented director Barry Sonnenfeld with the script. Columbia was hoping for filming to start towards the end of 1998, but it was pushed back, and Sonnenfeld exited in November 1999. It was speculated the Columbia was hesitant to move forward with Sonnenfeld following the disappointing box office performance of \"Wild Wild West\". In February 2000, it was announced that Michael Mann had taken over as director, following his Academy Award nomination for \"The Insider\". With this commitment to \"Ali\", Mann turned down the opportunity to direct early versions of \"The Aviator\", \"Shooter\" and \"Savages\", and brought Eric Roth to co-write the script. After years of being attached to the Ali biopic, Smith officially signed on in May 2000 with a $20 million salary.\n\nFilming began in Los Angeles on January 11, 2001 on a $105 million budget. Shooting also took place in New York City, Chicago, Miami and Mozambique.\n\nSmith spent approximately one year learning all aspects of Ali's life. These included boxing training (up to seven hours a day), Islamic studies and dialect training. Smith has said that his portrayal of Ali is his proudest work to date.\n\nOne of the selling points of the film is the realism of the fight scenes. Smith worked alongside boxing promoter Guy Sharpe from SharpeShooter Entertainment, and his lead fighter Ross Kent, to get the majority of his boxing tips for the film. All of the boxers in the film are former or current world heavyweight championship caliber boxers. It was quickly decided that 'Hollywood fighting'—passing the fist (or foot) between the camera and the face to create the illusion of a hit—would not be used in favor of actual boxing. The only limitation placed upon the fighters was for Charles Shufford (who plays George Foreman). He was permitted to hit Smith as hard as he could, so long as he did not actually knock the actor out.\n\nSmith had to gain a significant amount of weight to look the part of Muhammad Ali.\n\n\"Ali\" opened on Christmas Day, 2001 and grossed a total of $14.7 million in 2,446 theaters during its opening weekend. The film went on to gross a total of $87.7 million worldwide. \"Ali\" holds a 67% \"fresh\" rating at Rotten Tomatoes. In spite of the positive reviews, the film lost an estimated $63.1 million.\n\nThe film had generally favorable reviews, with the performances of Smith and Voight being well received by critics in general. Roger Ebert derided the film with two stars in his review for the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", and mentioned, \"it lacks much of the flash, fire and humor of Muhammad Ali and is shot more in the tone of a eulogy than a celebration\". In \"Variety\" magazine, Todd McCarthy wrote, \"The director's visual and aural dapplings are strikingly effective at their best, but over the long haul don't represent a satisfactory alternative to in-depth dramatic scenes; one longs, for example, for even one sequence in which Ali and Dundee discuss boxing strategy or assess an opponent\", but he did have praise for the performances: \"The cast is outstanding, from Smith, who carries the picture with consummate skill, and Voight, who is unrecognizable under all the makeup but nails Cosell's distinctive vocal cadences\". \"USA Today\" gave the film two and half stars out of four and stated that, \"for many Ali fans, the movie may be good enough, but some perspective is in order. The documentaries \"a.k.a. Cassius Clay\" and the Oscar-winning \"When We Were Kings\" cover a lot of the same ground and are consistently more engaging\".\n\nIn \"The New York Times\", Elvis Mitchell proclaimed \"Ali\" to be a \"breakthrough\" film for Mann, adding that it was his \"first movie with feeling\" and that \"his overwhelming love of its subject will turn audiences into exuberant, thrilled fight crowds\". J. Hoberman, in his review for the \"Village Voice\", felt that the \"first half percolates wonderfully—and the first half hour is even better than that. Mann opens with a thrilling montage that, spinning in and out of a nightclub performance by Sam Cooke, contextualizes the hero in his times\", and concluded that, \"Ali's astonishing personality is skillfully evoked but, in the end, remains a mystery\".\n\nWhen Ali died on June 3, 2016, Smith was chosen to be one of Ali's pallbearers for the memorial service in Louisville.\n\nThe film was released theatrically in 2001 at a length of 157 minutes. This version was released on DVD on April 30, 2002. Mann then re-edited the film, creating a new cut that ran 165 minutes and was released on DVD on June 1, 2004 as \"The Director's Cut\". Approximately 4 minutes of theatrical footage was removed, while 14 minutes of previously unseen footage was placed back in by Mann. The Director's Cut also featured an audio commentary by Mann. The theatrical cut of the film was released on Blu-ray in France in 2009 and in Germany in 2012. In 2016 Mann created a third cut, significantly re-editing the film in the aftermath of Ali's death. He deleted one fight and added scenes and footage focusing on the political side of Ali's life. This version runs 152 minutes and was released on January 17, 2017 on Blu-Ray in the US as the \"Commemorative Edition\".\n\n"}
{"id": "49497497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49497497", "title": "Annunciation (van Eyck, Madrid)", "text": "Annunciation (van Eyck, Madrid)\n\nThe Annunciation (sometimes Diptych of The Annunciation) is an oil on wood in grisaille painting by the Early Netherlandish artist Jan van Eyck, dated by art historians as between 1434 and 1436. The panels form a diptych, and are currently in the collection of the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza, Madrid.\n\nThe figures and iconography are very similar to those in the outer panels of van Eyck's earlier \"Ghent Altarpiece\" completed in 1432. However, their relative small scale suggests commission for private worship rather than public celebration.\n\nThe panels show the Archangel Gabriel on the left and the Virgin Mary on the right. Both are dressed in white robes. The figures of Mary and Gabriel are disproportionately large in relation to the scale of the rooms they occupy. Art historians agree that this follows the conventions of both the International Gothic and late Byzantine traditions of the icon by showing saints, especially Mary, in a much larger scale than their surroundings.\nThe saints are placed on carved and inscribed pedestals and architraves. Heavy foldings of lighting fall across the space they occupy and accentuates the heavy fold of their drapery. Mary holds her typical attribute of a holy book, while a dove hovers above her representing the purity and the Holy Spirit. Despite the dramatic setting and black marble background, the figures are given northern renaissance naturalistic poses and very human gestures.\n\nThe diptych is highly illusionistic. The predominant colours are multi-layered shades of white and black, intended to mimic stone sculpture creating a sense of living statues. The painted frames and mouldings are very early example of trompe l'oeil, with faux spoken inscriptions. They contain the words of the Angel and Mary (from Luke 1: 26–38), and read; by the Archangel: \"Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with thee\", and from Mary: \"('Behold the handmaiden of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word\".\n\nIf the attribution is accepted as by van eyck, it is placed as very early in his career and probably as two outer wings of a triptych; the \"Annunciation\" in Washington is a far more accomplished treatment and more likely intended as a complete work.\n\n"}
{"id": "43755631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43755631", "title": "Asa Koma", "text": "Asa Koma\n\nAsa Koma (\"Red Hill\") is an archaeological site in Djibouti.\n\nAsa Koma is an inland lake area on the Gobaad Plain. Pottery predating the mid-2nd millennium BC has been found at the site. The ware is characterized by punctate and incision geometric designs, which bear a similarity to the Sabir culture phase 1 ceramics from Ma'layba in Southern Arabia. Additionally, ceramics like some of the pottery from Sihi on the Saudi coast and Subr on the Yemeni littoral have been found here.\n\nLong-horned humpless cattle bones have also been discovered at Asa Koma, suggesting that domesticated cattle was present by around 3,500 years ago.\n"}
{"id": "244098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244098", "title": "BET", "text": "BET\n\nBlack Entertainment Television (BET) is an American pay television channel that is owned by the BET Networks division of Viacom. It is the most prominent television network targeting African American audiences, with approximately 88,255,000 American households (75.8% of households with television) receiving the channel. The channel has offices in Washington, D.C., New York City, Los Angeles and Chicago.\n\nProgramming on the network consists of original and acquired television series and theatrically and direct-to-video-released films. The network has also aired a variety of stand-up comedy, news, and current affairs programs, and formerly aired mainstream rap, hip-hop and R&B music videos; the latter of which now air on its branded sister networks.\n\nAfter stepping down as a lobbyist for the cable industry, Freeport, Illinois native Robert L. Johnson decided to launch his own cable television network. Johnson would soon acquire a loan for $15,000 and a $500,000 investment from media executive John Malone to start the network. The network, which was named Black Entertainment Television (BET), launched on January 25, 1980. Initially broadcasting for two hours a week as a block of programming on the Madison Square Garden Sports Network (which would change their name to USA Network three months after BET launched). (it would not be until 1983 that BET became a full-fledged channel), the network's lineup consisted of music videos and reruns of popular black sitcoms.\n\nBET launched a news program, \"BET News\", in 1988, with Ed Gordon as its anchor. Gordon later hosted other programs and specials on BET, such as \"Black Men Speak Out: The Aftermath\", related to the 1992 Los Angeles riots, and a recurring interview show, \"Conversations with Ed Gordon\". In 1996, the talk show \"BET Tonight\" debuted with Tavis Smiley as host; in 2001, Ed Gordon replaced Smiley as host of the program.\n\nIn 1991, the network became the first black-controlled TV company to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Starting the late 1990s, the network expanded with the launch of digital cable networks: what is now the general interest channel BET Her originally launched as BET on Jazz (later known as BET Jazz and BET J), created originally to showcase jazz music-related programming, especially that of black jazz musicians; in 1998, it entered into a joint venture with Starz (then-owned by John Malone's Liberty Media) to launch a multiplex service of the premium channel featuring African American-oriented movies called BET Movies: Starz! 3 (later renamed Black Starz after BET dropped out of the venture following its purchase by Viacom, then-owner of Starz rival Showtime, and now known as Starz InBlack). In 2001, the network lost its status as a black-owned business when it was bought by media conglomerate Viacom for $3 billion. In 2005, Johnson retired from the network, turning over his titles of president and chief executive officer to former BET vice president Debra L. Lee.\n\nBy 2007, the network had launched two more music-oriented networks, BET Hip-Hop and BET Gospel. BET also launched a batch of original programming by this time, including reality shows \"Baldwin Hills\" and \"Hell Date\", competition show \"Sunday Best\", and town hall-style discussion show \"Hip Hop vs. America\". BET's president of entertainment Reginald Hudlin resigned from the network on September 11, 2008. He was then replaced by Stephen Hill, who is also executive vice president of music programming and talent. BET announced in March 2010 that Ed Gordon would return to the network to host \"a variety of news programs and specials.\"\n\nIn March 2017, president of programming Stephen Hill and executive vice president of original programming Zola Mashariki both stepped down. Connie Orlando, senior vice president of Specials, Music Programming, and News was named the interim president of programming.\n\nIn July 2017, Viacom signed new film and television development deals with Tyler Perry; the television development deal will begin in May 2019 following the expiration of his existing pact with Oprah Winfrey Network, with new series primarily being developed for BET.\n\nBET's programming began with a wide scope of comedy, music, public affairs, and news programming including \"ComicView\", \"Video Soul\" with Donnie Simpson, \"Video Vibrations\", \"Softones\", \"Screen Scene\", \"Unreal/Planet Groove/Caribbean Rhythms\", \"Jam Zone/Cita's World\", \"Teen Summit\", \"BET News\" with Ed Gordon, \"Lead Story\", \"BET Tonight\" with Tavis Smiley, and \"BET Nightly News\". Original programming currently seen on BET include \"The Quad\", and \"Being Mary Jane\". By the early 2010s, the only regularly airing urban music video program on BET was \"106 & Park\", which debuted in September 2000 and ended in December 2014.\n\nBET also airs a program block called \"BET Inspiration\" which features Christian programming. This block airs in lieu of infomercials in late night, which the network has not aired since 1997; BET is one of a handful of subscription channels and one of only two Viacom-owned networks to have discontinued airing infomercials (sister network Nick at Nite ran infomercials in some overnight timeslots from 1987 to 1998, with series airing in that daypart since then). In early 2017, its Christian programming block changed its name to \"BET Rejoice\".\n\nIn addition, the channel broadcasts acquired television series, primarily in the form of sitcoms (such as \"The Parkers\", \"Family Matters\" and \"Moesha\"), drama series (such as \"Scandal\"), and same-day or week-delayed late-night runs of syndicated talk shows (namely \"The Wendy Williams Show\", \"The Real\", and \"Dish Nation\"). Feature films released theatrically and on home video are also aired on the channel, comprising much of its primetime and weekend schedule.\n\nThe BET Walk of Fame Awards were established in 1995 by BET. In 2004, proceeds were shared between United Negro College Fund (UNCF) and the BET Foundation, which executes the Healthy BET obesity awareness campaign and other pro-social causes like the annual charitable black-tie BET Walk of Fame ceremony.\n\nThe BET Awards were established in 2001 by the network to celebrate African Americans and other minorities in music, acting, sports and other fields of entertainment over the past year. The awards are presented annually and broadcast live on BET. BET commissioned Artist/Sculptor and Hip-Hop culture icon Carlos \"Mare139\" Rodriguez to design the Award sculpture. Global promotion is provided by Kroszover Entertainment.\n\nThe BET Honors were established in 2008 by the network to honor the lives and achievements of African-American luminaries. The awards are presented annually and broadcast on BET during Black History Month each February.\n\nBET UK first transmitted on Videotron (now known as Virgin Media) and several other subscription providers from 1993 until 1996.\n\nIn May 2007 by Ofcom, BET International Inc. was given a license to rebroadcast in the United Kingdom. BET International is the first international version of the channel and is available in Europe, Africa and the Middle East through satellite providers. BET launched on February 27, 2008 on Sky channel 191 and began to be carried by Freesat channel 140 on August 8, 2008. BET+1 is also available on Sky channel 198 and Freesat channel 141, and is free-to-air. BET International shows a mix of content from the main BET channel and locally produced shows. An exclusive, but temporary, HD version of the channel was made to show the 2009 BET Awards on Freesat EPG 142.\n\nBET is additionally an associate member of the Caribbean Cable Cooperative.\n\nBET launched an app called BET PLay allowing international access to BET content in over 100 countries in June 2016.\n\nBET became available in Canada in October 1997 on most pay television providers. The Canadian feed mirrors the American feed, though certain television programs and films are blacked out. Until 2017, they were replaced with repeats of old music video blocks (namely \"BET Music\", \"The Pull Up\" and \"BET Now\"). As of May 2018, the feed now airs current music videos and other acquired sitcoms and films in place of blacked-out programs.\n\nSince November 17, 2015. \n\nIn 2006, BET Interactive, LLC became a subsidiary of BET. BET also has a digital group including BET.com, BET on Blast, BET on Demand and BET mobile.\n\nBET's programming is distributed on DVD and through video-on-demand services under the name BET Home Entertainment. In 2007, a distribution deal was arranged with Paramount Home Entertainment.\n\nA wide range of people have protested elements of BET's programming and actions, including Public Enemy rapper Chuck D, journalist George Curry, writer Keith Boykin, comic book creator Christopher Priest, filmmaker Spike Lee, Syracuse University professor of finance Dr. Boyce Watkins, former NFL player Burgess Owens, and cartoonist Aaron McGruder (who, in addition to numerous critical references throughout his series, \"The Boondocks\", made two particular episodes, \"The Hunger Strike\" and \"The Uncle Ruckus Reality Show\", criticizing the channel). As a result, BET heavily censors suggestive content from the videos that it airs, often with entire verses and scenes removed from certain rap videos.\n\nMany scholars within the African American community maintain that BET perpetuates and justifies racism by affecting the stereotypes held about African Americans, and also by affecting the psyche of its young viewers through its bombardment of negative images of African Americans.\n\nFollowing the death of civil rights leader Coretta Scott King in 2006, BET broadcast its regularly scheduled music video programming, rather than covering King's funeral live as CNN, Fox News Channel, MSNBC, and BET competitors TV One and Black Family Channel did. The BET website streamed the funeral live, while the channel periodically broadcast taped, 60-second reports from the funeral by senior news correspondent Andre Showell. Michael Lewellen, BET's senior vice president for corporate communications, defended the decision: \"We weighed a number of different options. In the end, we chose to offer a different kind of experience for BET viewers.\" Lewellen also said that BET received around \"two dozen\" phone calls and \"a handful\" of emails criticizing BET for not showing the King funeral live. On the evening of the funeral, February 7, 2006, BET broadcast the tribute special \"Coretta Scott King: Married to the Mission\", and BET repeated this the following Sunday, February 12. Showell hosted a program featuring highlights of the funeral, \"Coretta Scott King: Celebrating Her Spirit\", that broadcast that same day. In its 2007 convention, the National Association of Black Journalists gave BET its Thumbs Down Award for not broadcasting King's funeral live.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported that the Reverend Delman L. Coates and his organization Enough is Enough led protests every weekend outside the residences of BET executives against what they claim are negative stereotypes of black people perpetuated by BET music videos. Enough is Enough backed an April 2008 report titled \"The Rap on Rap\" by the Parents Television Council that criticized BET's rap programming, which that the gratuitous sexual, violent and profane content, was targeting children and teens.\n\nIn a 2010 interview, BET co-founder Sheila Johnson said that she herself is \"ashamed\" of what the network has become. \"I don't watch it. I suggest to my kids that they don't watch it,\" she said. \"When we started BET, it was going to be the \"Ebony\" magazine on television. We had public affairs programming. We had news... I had a show called \"Teen Summit\", we had a large variety of programming, but the problem is that then the video revolution started up... And then something started happening, and I didn't like it at all. And I remember during those days we would sit up and watch these videos and decide which ones were going on and which ones were not. We got a lot of backlash from recording artists...and we had to start showing them. I didn't like the way women were being portrayed in these videos.\"\n\nBET Gospel is a television network in the United States that provides gospel and inspirational programming. The network, a spin-off of BET (Black Entertainment Television), mixes new and classic shows as well as original gospel-oriented programming. BET Gospel currently runs on an automated loop schedule. In 2016, the channel was updated and programming now consists of recent uplifting music videos, as well as gospel themed series and specials. It officially launched on July 1, 2002.\n\n\n\nBET Hip-Hop is a music video network owned by BET Networks which is exclusive to digital cable systems. It formerly aired some of BET's original programming such as \"Rap City\", \"ComicView\" and the network's video countdown programs. After the 2015 relaunch of the former MTV Jams as BET Jams (which has much wider distribution), the channel's programming was shifted to an automated playlist made up of BET's library of older hip-hop videos. As part of Viacom's 2017 restructuring plan, which will see the company decrease the carriage of networks with little to no original programming or growth potential, the network is expected to lose distribution and eventually sign off.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54326111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54326111", "title": "Banquet of the Amsterdam Civic Guard in Celebration of the Peace of Münster", "text": "Banquet of the Amsterdam Civic Guard in Celebration of the Peace of Münster\n\nBanquet of the Amsterdam Civic Guard in Celebration of the Peace of Münster (1648) is a group portrait oil painting by the Dutch painter Bartholomeus van der Helst. It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is considered one of the highlights of the Amsterdam Museum, though it is generally on show in the Rijksmuseum.\n\nThe painting is one of the largest civic guard group portraits for which most of the sitters are known and most of the portrayed objects have survived.\nThe painting is about retiring from active duty, because the Peace of Münster had finally been signed after years of negotiations. The main figures are seen with the attributes of the civic guard guilds. On the right Cornelis Jan Witsen heads up the table, holding the silver drinking horn of the Voetboogdoelen, Amsterdam.\nThe art historian J.J. de Gelder mentioned the painting is dated 1648 but was probably finished at least a year later, similar to the way other group portraits by Van der Helst bear the date of the commission and not of completion. The drum explains the occasion by way of the poem attached to it by Jan Vos. The names mentioned in the poem are the handshakers, but in 1680 a name board was added that included 24 names:\n\nThe art historian Judith van Gent remarked that the first name on this list was Hendrik Caliber who was buried a month after the festivities took place, and agrees with De Gelder that the painting took quite a while to create and assumes the commission probably was granted well before the summer of 1648. In her catalog entry for this painting she lists short biographies of the traceable names.\n\n"}
{"id": "28169222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28169222", "title": "Berlinghiero Berlinghieri", "text": "Berlinghiero Berlinghieri\n\nBerlinghiero Berlinghieri, also known as Berlinghiero of Lucca (fl. 1228 – between 1236 and 1242), was an Italian painter of the early thirteenth century. He was the father of the painters Barone Berlinghieri, Bonaventura Berlinghieri, and Marco Berlinghieri.\n\nHis actual name is unknown, as he is known from the inscription \"Berlingerius me pinxit\" on the crucifix which is the basis of attributing other works to him. But the name \"Berlinghiero Berlinghieri\" is certainly not his name (according to Edward B. Garrison) and he should be called Berlinghiero. He is also mentioned in a parchment of 22 March 1228 among the names of the residents of Lucca who swore to keep the peace with Pisa after a five-year war. The original document has been lost since the mid-19th century and only a somewhat garbled 17th-century transcription exists today, giving rise to the mistaken interpretation of attributing him an incorrect name and an incorrect Lombardic origin.\n\nSince his two adult sons were also mentioned in that document, it can be argued that Berlinghiero was then between 35 and 40 years old. This puts his birthday between 1188 and 1193.\n\nHis style was late Romanesque, mainly line-based, with neohellenistic and Byzantine influences. He is considered to be one of the main artists of the Tuscan art of the period. He is also one of the few artists who painted in what is considered the Italo-Byzantine style to whom work can be attributed with certainty, though distinguishing his work from that of his sons is sometimes difficult.\n\nHis earliest work, or at least that attributed to him, is the \"Madonna di sotto gli organi\" in the cathedral of Pisa and dates not earlier than 1210.\n\nOne of his most famous works, \"Madonna and Child,\" is currently on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It exemplifies several key elements that typify it as quintessentially Byzantine, but it also contains later Italian elements. One can begin with the most recognizable attributes, for example, the halos, the flat and uncrowded gold background, and the blue and red robes of the Virgin and her long features. The golden background and halos surrounding the heads of the Virgin and Child are common in Byzantine representation of divine or holy figures, as are the colors used throughout the composition. These golden halos differ between the two figures in the painting—Christ's is articulated by an inlaid cruciform to distinguish his divine status. The Madonna boasts timeless stylized features of the Virgin. Her fingers, nose, and neck are exaggeratedly long and slender and her face itself is elongated and narrow. Her soulful eyes are large and intensely focused, lending her visage a particular elegance. Upon seeing the painting in person, one can observe a red tint in the cheeks of both Jesus and Mary that gives the flesh a life-like quality - more vivacious, in fact, than its Byzantine predecessors. The particular depth created by the shading of the faces, Mary's in particular - an attribute of early Italian painting - also gives it an air of naturalism that Byzantine figures often lacked.\n\nWorks by Berlinghieri can be found at the San Matteo National Museum in Pisa, the National Museum of Villa Guinigi in Lucca, the North Carolina Museum of Art in Raleigh, the Cleveland Museum of Art, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.\n"}
{"id": "45290245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45290245", "title": "Brooklyn Bridge (Gleizes)", "text": "Brooklyn Bridge (Gleizes)\n\nBrooklyn Bridge is a 1915 painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. \"Brooklyn Bridge\" was exhibited at the Montross Gallery, New York, 1916 (no. 40) along with works by Jean Crotti, Marcel Duchamp and Jean Metzinger.\n\nThis is the first in a series of three highly abstract paintings by Gleizes of the Brooklyn Bridge. It was the most abstract painting of the bridge to date. Gleizes and the Italian-American artist Joseph Stella had been friends since 1915 and it has been of interest to compare this painting with Stella's \"Brooklyn Bridge\" of 1919-20.\n\nThe American collector John Quinn acquired \"Brooklyn Bridge\" and several other works by Gleizes that had been on view at Montross Gallery, either during the exhibition or subsequently. In 1927, an exhibition and sale of Quinn's art collection took place in New York City. The sale was conducted by Otto Bernet and Hiram H. Parke at the American Art Galleries. A catalogue was published for the occasion by the American Art Association. \"Brooklyn Bridge\" (n. 263 of the catalogue) was purchased at the sale for $60.\n\n\"Brooklyn Bridge\" forms part of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Founding Collection. It was gifted to the museum by Solomon Guggenheim between 1937 (the year of the formation of the foundation) and 1949, or purchased by the foundation during those years. The painting is in the permanent collection of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City.\n\n\"Brooklyn Bridge\" is an oil and gouache painting on canvas with dimensions 102 x 102 cm (40 1/8 x 40 1/8 inches) inscribed \"Brooklyn Bridge, Alb. Gleizes, 15, lower right.\n\nIn a celebration of this feat of modernity, the architecture of the Brooklyn Bridge served as the inspiration for a series of works by Gleizes. In this first painting of the series, juxtaposed arabesques and distinctive diagonals interconnect dynamically, suggesting the bridge's complex architectonic engineering.\n\nAs in earlier works by Gleizes, this canvas is directly engaged with the environment. While highly abstract, \"Brooklyn Bridge\" maintains an evident visual basis. From 1914 to the end of the New York period, however nonrepresentational, works by the artist continued to be shaped by his personal experience, by the conviction that art was a social function, susceptible to theoretical formulation, and imbued with optimism.\n\nIn \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" Gleizes and Metzinger wrote: \"...let us admit that the reminiscence of natural forms cannot be banished—in any event, not yet. An art cannot be raised to the level of pure effusion at the first step.\"\n\nThree years later, the transformation toward pure effusion would manifest itself in the \"Brooklyn Bridge\" and continue further still in subsequent works produced by the artist in New York. The features of the bridge are described by forceful rhythms and colors, even though the actual bridge itself has disappeared; superseded by a synthesis of Gleizes's plastic equivalents of physical reality. The three Brooklyn Bridge paintings are a prime example of Gleizes's experimentation with the plastic translation of one of his most treasured themes: \"the city which draws life from the river\".\n\nAlready, in his 1913 publication \"The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations\", Guillaume Apollinaire drew parallels between the work of Gleizes and the realization of metal constructions such as bridges:\n\nGleizes stated his admiration for the Brooklyn Bridge in the first interview after his arrival in the United States, comparing it to the noblest achievements of European architecture.\n\nThe Brooklyn Bridge was a key component of the New York landscape for the Ashcan School, though it hadn't held for them the fascination that it did for the generation of modern artists that arrived or returned from Europe during the First World War.\n\nJoseph Stella wrote of the Brooklyn Bridge: \"Seen for the first time, as a weird metallic Apparition under a metallic sky, out of proportion with the winged lightness of its arch, traced for the conjunction of Worlds… it impressed me as the shrine containing all the efforts of the new civilization of America\".\n\nAlbert Gleizes remarked: \"the genius who built the Brooklyn Bridge is to be classed alongside the genius who built Notre Dame de Paris\". Supporting Gleizes' claim that the Brooklyn Bridge belongs in the same category as the Notre Dame Cathedral, Marcel Duchamp said America's greatest works of art are its bridges and its plumbing. (Stella and Walter Arensberg accompanied Duchamp to a plumbing supply store in 1917 to purchase the infamous urinal, soon to be entitled \"Fountain\" and signed \"R.Mutt\").\nWhereas other proto-modernists such as Henry James, H. G. Wells and Alvin Langdon Coburn pondered the bridge from a distance—contemplating its cultural and industrial aspects—artists like John Marin, Max Weber, Joseph Stella and Gleizes worked directly at the bridge itself, reveling in the personal experience. This is what Alan Trachtenberg called “the classic moment” when the bridge—in front of the eyes—transforms itself from a public icon to “a private event”. The classic moment is not studied or pondered but entirely instant and radically subjective. It is a personal response to modernity of the unique structure, an attempt to “know the bridge from the inside”.\n\nStemming back to his years at the Abbaye de Créteil, the interest in ambitious subjects continued to inspire Albert Gleizes throughout the 1910s: \"Passy, Bridges of Paris\", \"La Chasse (The Hunt)\", \"Harvest Threshing (Le Dépiquage des Moissons)\", \"Les Joueurs de football (Football Players)\". From 1915, Gleizes drew inspiration from the music of jazz, from the skyscrapers of New York, from neon signs, from the hustle and bustle of busy Manhattan streets and avenues such as Broadway, and from the Brooklyn Bridge; expressing the various sensations and vast drama of modern city life in an unprecedented series of works.\nDuring the months of autumn, following his demobilization in 1915, Gleizes married Juliette Roche and moved to New York. There they were met by Carlos Salzedo, Francis Picabia, Man Ray, Marcel Duchamp, and Jean Crotti (who would eventually marry Suzanne Duchamp). Marcel Duchamp had emigrated to New York several months earlier after being judged physically unfit for his service in the military. Shortly after his arrival, Gleizes, accompanied by Salzedo, frequented jazz clubs in Harlem. With all it had to offer, New York had a strong impact on the artist's production.\n\nGleizes had previously been to New York for the occasion of the Armory Show (which in 1913 introduced European modern art to an American audience), exhibiting his \"La Femme aux Phlox (Woman with Phlox)’’, Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, and \"L'Homme au Balcon, Man on a Balcony (Portrait of Dr. Théo Morinaud)’’, Philadelphia Museum of Art.\n\nIn New York Gleizes met Walter Pach (who he knew from Paris), Stuart Davis, Max Weber, Joseph Stella, and participated in a show at Montross Gallery (April 1916)—exhibiting Brooklyn Bridge—with Duchamp, Crotti and Metzinger (who remained in Paris). At this exhibition the group was dubbed 'The Four Musketeers' in the press. The Montross exhibition introduced some of the most avant-garde French art of the time to the New York art scene, causing a sensation and once again forcing American artists to rethink their ideas about art. This exhibitions demonstrated that there existed an even more radical approach in art than that offered by the Futurists and Cubists, who were considered at the time to represent the most extreme forms of art.\n\nAfter Gleizes returned to Europe, Stella became interested in the Bridge as a motif. In Paris, from 1911 to 1912, Stella had been in contact with the Cubists and Italian Futurists, who admired contemporary concepts of the future, including motion, speed and technological triumphs of humanity over nature. When he return to New York he moved to Brooklyn and there found in the Bridge the perfect vehicle for his Futurist vision, though he was also interested in the structural experiments of the Cubists and the dynamic color of the Fauves.\n\nGleizes' \"Brooklyn Bridge\" (his first painting of the bridge) was the most abstract image made of the bridge to date. His second version, also of 1915, measuring 148.1 x 120.4 cm (58¼ x 47 3/8in.), is entirely abstract. His third and last oil painting of the series, dated 1917 and entitled \"On Brooklyn Bridge (Sur Brooklyn Bridge)\", Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York, measures 161.8 x 129.5 cm (63 3/4 x 51 in.). This composition relates most closely with a 1915 drawing (25 x 19 cm). It is an attempt to synthesize New York City under the symbol of the bridge through a collection of unifying circles, spheres and arcs. In the composition Gleizes portrays both ends of the bridge with the East River below. The Manhattan skyline and Brooklyn appear in the distance. This 1917 canvas—the least abstract of the three—more so than the other paintings of the series, resembles Stella's 1919-20 painting.\n\nNon-objective painting rarely has to do with realistic qualities and yet it is still bound to the logic of painting as representational of the subject matter. In Andrei Nakov's study, \"Abstract/Concrete - Russian and Polish Non-objective Art\", non-representation itself becomes the impetus for depicting a subject. In his last book, \"Painting and on Man become Painter\", written in 1948, Gleizes warns against the trend of non-representation becoming an end unto itself, insisting on the importance, instead, of esemplastic qualities. For Gleizes, the latter prevails over the concepts of representational or abstract qualities of the painting.\n\nToward the end of 1913 Gleizes defended the need for a representational subject matter in 'Opinion' published by Ricciotto Canudo in Monjoie!, but it was for reasons that were entirely plastic and non-representational at the same time:\nWe are agreed that anecdote counts for nothing in a painted work. It is a pretext, so be it, but a pretext which we should not reject. Through a certain coefficient of imitation we will verify the legitimacy of the things we have discovered, the picture will not be reduced to the merely pleasurable arabesque of an oriental carpet, and we will obtain an infinite variety which would otherwise be impossible. (Gleizes, 1913)\n\nIn \"The Epic, From immobile form to mobile form\", Gleizes writes:\nAs we can see straightaway, it is not a matter of describing, nor is it a matter of abstracting from, anything that is external to itself. There is a concrete act that has to be realized, a reality to be produced - of the same order as that which everyone is prepared to recognize in music, at the lowest level of the esemplastic scale, and in architecture, at the highest. Like any natural, physical reality, painting, understood in this way, will touch anyone who knows how to enter into it, not through their opinions on something that exists independently of it, but through its own existence, through those inter-relations, constantly in movement, which enable us to transmit life itself. (Gleizes, 1928)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49663486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49663486", "title": "Byzantine enamel", "text": "Byzantine enamel\n\nThe craft of cloisonné enameling is a metal and glass-working tradition practiced in the Byzantine Empire from the 6th to the 12th century. The Byzantines perfected an intricate form of vitreous enameling, allowing the illustration of small, detailed, iconographic portraits.\n\n The development of the Byzantine enamel art occurred between the 6th and 12th centuries. The Byzantines perfected a form of enameling called cloisonné, where gold strips are soldered to a metal base plate making the outline of an image. The recessed spaces between the gold filigreed wire are then filled with a colored glass paste, or flux, that fills up the negative space in the design with whatever color chosen. Byzantine enamels usually depict a person of interest, often a member of the imperial family or a Christian icon. Enamels, because they are created from expensive materials such as gold, are often very small. Occasionally they are made into medallions that act as decorative jewelry or are set in ecclesiastical designs such as book covers, liturgical equipment like the chalice and paten, or in some examples, royal crowns. Collections of small enamels may be set together to make a larger, narrative display, such as in the Pala d'Oro altarpiece. Many of the examples of Byzantine enamel known today have been repurposed into a new setting, making dating particularly difficult where no inscriptions or identifiable persons are visible. The Latin Crusaders, who sacked Constantinople in 1204, took many examples of Byzantine enamel with them back West. The destruction of Constantinople meant that the production of enamel artwork went into downfall in the 13th century. It is possible that many examples left in the city were melted down and repurposed by the Ottoman Empire, who cared little about the religious significance of the art and could reuse the gold but not the glass.\n\nThe art of vitreous enameling is an ancient practice with origins that are hard to pinpoint. There are a few places that Byzantine craftsmen could have picked up the technique. Enameling is thought to have existed in an early form in ancient Egypt, where examples of gold ornaments containing glass paste separated by strips of gold have been found in tombs. However, there are questions about whether the Egyptians were using actual enameling techniques; it is possible that instead they were casting glass stones which were then enclosed, set into metal frames, and then sanded to a finish, similarly to how precious stones are set. In first century BCE Nubia, a method appears of soldering gold strips to a metal base, most often gold, and then filling in the sectioned off recesses with glass flux. This method, called cloisonné, later became the preferred style of enameling in the Byzantine Empire.\n\nThe enamel workshops within the Byzantine Empire likely perfected their techniques through their connections with Classical Greek examples. The Greeks were already experts in enameling, soldering a filagree onto a flat base and later adding a paste of glass, or a liquid flux, to the base piece. The entire work was then fired, melting the glass paste into the frame to create the finished work. Occasionally, the ancient Greek craftsman would apply the glass flux to the base with the aid of a brush. The Romans, who were experienced in glass production already, would carve a recess into the base plate and then pour glass flux into each enclosure. The metal peeking through between the recessed glass would create the outline of the image. This technique is called champlevé, and is considerably easier than the cloisonné form of enameling practiced by the Greeks and Byzantines.\n\nThe Byzantines were the first craftsmen to begin illustrating detailed miniature scenes in enamel. A few examples of early Byzantine enamel frames missing the glass flux have been found, and it has been hypothesized that they were used as educational tools in workshops. Some incomplete enamel base plates show indentations marking the line to which the gold wire would be attached, indicating how designs were outlined before soldering and enameling began. Because they were not carving recesses into a base plate and then filling the hole with glass flux, Byzantine workers could also use gold wire to create patterns that would not separate recesses from one another, resulting in a style that appears more like a drawn line.\n\nMost of the Byzantine enamels known today are from the 9th to 12th centuries. The period of Iconoclasm from 726-787 CE meant that most examples predating the 8th century were destroyed because of their iconographic nature, though there are a few examples thought to have been made earlier. One of the earliest examples of Byzantine enamel work is a medallion created in either the late 5th or early 6th century and features a bust portrait of Empress Eudoxia. The period after Iconoclasm saw an upswing in the production of iconic portraits, to which the intricate form of cloisonné developed by the Byzantines lends itself easily. Most enamel works known today have been housed in western Europe since the beginning of the 13th century. Any examples of enamel work still inside Constantinople immediately prior to its destruction were lost or destroyed.\n\nEnamels are considered a \"Minor Art\" because of their small size, which likely led to their increase in use as decoration for small, portable containers holding holy relics. In this tradition, many enameled pieces found their way to the western empire by way of pilgrimage and gifts from the imperial family in Constantinople. The high value and relatively small size of enamel pieces meant that they were made for an aristocratic audience, most likely commissioned by the imperial family, often as gifts for other royals or for the churches they patronized. For example, there is evidence that Emperor Justinian II (565-578) sent enamels to Queen Radegund of France. Another possible transmission for Byzantine enamels to the west came in the form of imperial marriages. In 927, the German Emperor Otto II married the niece of the Byzantine Emperor John I Tzimisces, princess Theophanu, and she supposedly introduced imperial goldsmiths and enamelers to the German church. Many famous examples of Byzantine enamel are \"staurothekes\", relics containing fragments of the True Cross, which were greatly prized in both the east and the west, therefore more survive still in modern collections. It is likely that a \"staurotheke\" was one of the first gifts sent from the East to the West. There is some evidence that the Crusaders carried the reliquaries in front of their military campaigns as Byzantine emperors were known to have presented them. \n\nThe Fieschi-Morgan Staurotheke is an example of Byzantine enameling dating to the early 9th century, though some suggest as early of a creation date as 700. It was quite possibly made in Constantinople, though there are debates around its origins, some suggesting it was made in Syria based on the inconsistencies in the Greek lettering. It is currently housed in The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Supposedly, the Fiesch-Morgan Staurotheke belonged to Pope Innocent IV and was brought to the west by the Fieschi family during the Crusades. The lid of the box features Christ on the crucifix, a style not usually seen in Byzantine art until the end of the 6th century, remaining uncommon throughout the period. The work is not particularly refined, signaling the creator was perhaps not familiar with cloisonné work.\n\nThe Holy Crown of Hungary, also known as St. Stephen's Crown, has been used as the coronation crown of Hungary since the year 1000, when the Hungarian royals introduced Christianity to the country. It contains mostly Byzantine enamelwork originating from Constantinople, though it isn't proven they were crafted originally for this purpose. The enamels are mounted around the base, with several plaques attached at the top. One enamel shows Christ, seated on the imperial throne and giving blessing. Another enamel, positioned at the back of the crown, illustrates a bust portrait of Emperor Michael VII Ducas (1071-1078), next to another plaque of his son Constantine. The Hungarian King Géza I (1074-1077) is also featured, though he is not wearing a nimbus like Michael VII Ducas or Constantine, which indicates his status as lower than that of the Byzantine Emperors.\n\nThe Beresford Hope Cross is a pectoral cross intended for use as a reliquary. On one side Christ is depicted at the Crucifixion, while the other shows Mary praying between busts of John the Baptist, Perter, Andrew, and Paul. The dating is contentious, but most agree it was made in the 9th century. The style is similar to the Fieschi-Morgan Staurotheke; the cloisonné of both is unrefined and stylistically sloppy compared to other examples. The inconsistencies in the Greek lettering on the cross mean that it is possible the piece was not made in the Byzantine Empire, but in southern Italy, where the Lombards had active metal workshops of their own.\n\nMany examples of Byzantine enamel are hard to date because of a lack of inscription or identifiable individual. In these cases, guesses must be made to the date of the object in question through a comparison with similar objects with known dates. This can be done by examining material sources and by comparing styles. For example, objects with green glass composed of similar material might be grouped within a similar date range. Origins of Byzantine enamel work are often even harder to pinpoint, as nearly everything made has been housed in the West since the early 13th century. One way of guessing the origins of a piece is by examining the quality of the Greek lettering; the more accurate the Greek, the more likely the work came directly from the Byzantine Empire.\n\nThe Migration Period of early medieval art sees a concurrent form of metalwork influenced by the Goths' migration through the eastern Roman Empire into the west, accumulating techniques and materials from Byzantine and Mediterranean sources. However, instead of using traditional Byzantine enamel techniques, they often employed a chip-carving technique, where stones such as garnets are cut to fit into a wire frame. This has the appearance of cloisonné, but is more similar to the Ptolemaic Egyptian style. The appearance of cloisonné jewelry from Germanic workshops in the mid-5th century is a complete break with the culture’s traditions, signaling that they likely picked up the technique from the east, where the Byzantine Empire was gaining a foothold as the center of the Late Roman Empire. It has been proposed that Late-Roman workshops in Constantinople produced semi-manufactured enamel parts intended for assembly in the west.\n"}
{"id": "6946612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6946612", "title": "Danza de los Voladores", "text": "Danza de los Voladores\n\nThe Danza de los Voladores (; \"Dance of the Flyers\"), or Palo Volador (; \"flying pole\"), is an ancient Mesoamerican ceremony/ritual still performed today, albeit in modified form, in isolated pockets in Mexico. It is believed to have originated with the Nahua, Huastec and Otomi peoples in central Mexico, and then spread throughout most of Mesoamerica. The ritual consists of dance and the climbing of a 30-meter pole from which four of the five participants then launch themselves tied with ropes to descend to the ground. The fifth remains on top of the pole, dancing and playing a flute and drum. According to one myth, the ritual was created to ask the gods to end a severe drought. Although the ritual did not originate with the Totonac people, today it is strongly associated with them, especially those in and around Papantla in the Mexican state of Veracruz. The ceremony was named an Intangible cultural heritage by UNESCO in order to help the ritual survive and thrive in the modern world.\n\nAccording to Totonac myth, at least 450 years ago there was a severe drought that brought hunger to the people. The gods were withholding the rain because the people had neglected them. The ceremony was created, to appease the gods and bring back the rains. In some versions of the story, the ritual is created by the old men of a village, who then chose five young men who were chaste. In other versions, the five men themselves create the ritual. The tallest tree in the nearby forest is cut down, with the permission of the mountain god, stripped of branches and dragged to the village. The trunk is erected with much ceremony. The youths climb the pole and four jump off while the fifth played music. The ritual pleased the rain god Xipe Totec and other gods, so the rains began again and the fertility of the earth returned.\n\nThe exact origin of this ritual/dance is unknown, but it is thought to have originated with the Huastec, Nahua and Otomi peoples in Sierra de Puebla and mountain areas of Veracruz. The ritual spread through much of the Mesoamerican world until it was practiced from northern Mexico to Nicaragua. Evidence for the ritual stretches back at least as far as the pre-Classic period according to ceramics found in Nayarit. In pre-Hispanic times, the ritual was far more complex, involving taboos and meditation. The participants were thought to impersonate birds and in some areas were dressed as parrots, macaws, quetzals and eagles. These birds represented the gods of the earth, air, fire, and water. By the 16th century, the ritual was strongly associated with solar ceremonies, such as the spring equinox. The ritual is most closely tied with rain and solar deities such as Xipe, Totec and Tlazotlteotl.\n\nIn Maya mythology the creation of the world is associated with a mythical bird deity (Itzamna) residing at the World Tree (the center of the world). Five \"birdmen\" at the top of a pole represent bird deities. The main dancer stands in the center and plays a flute, which represents the sound of birds singing. The four other \"birdmen\" (representing the four directions) spin around the pole to represent the recreation of the world (and the regeneration of life) In the early form, instead of only five men there are six men dressed as birds with each member climbing on top and performing a dance and at the end tied ropes around their waist and who all jump in unison and descend downwards. Many villages in Mexico banned this version of the practice due to injuries and even death.\n\nDiego Durán, who recorded many Aztec customs at the time of the Spanish conquest, described an incident reminiscent of the Danza de los Voladores, where an Aztec prince, Ezhuahuacatl, sacrificed himself by diving from a pole 20 \"brazas\" high (probably about 120 feet, a \"braza\" being roughly a fathom, i.e. c. 6 feet). The four modern day voladores typically circle the pole 13 times each, for a total of 52 circuits, or the number of years in the Aztec \"calendar round\".\n\nThe ritual was partially lost after the Conquest, and the Spaniards destroyed many records about it. The Church was much against \"pagan\" rituals such as these after the Conquest and this and many other rituals were silenced or practiced in secret. Much of what is known is due to oral tradition and writing by the first Europeans to come to Mexico. Later, Catholic elements would be added to the ritual, and it became something of a spectacle in the later colonial period. The ritual mostly disappeared in Mexico and Central America with small remnants surviving, including the Totonac people.\n\nAlthough the ritual did not originate with the Totonacs, today it is often associated with the Totonacs of the Papantla area in Veracruz. In modern times, a number of changes have occurred. Due to the deforestation of much of the Sierra de Puebla and mountain areas of Veracruz, most voladores perform on permanent metal poles, which in Veracruz are often donated by the oil industry. The most controversial change has been the induction of women to perform the ceremony. Traditionally, it has been taboo to allow women to become voladores but a few have become such, all of whom are in Puebla state. One of the first males to train women, Jesús Arroyo Cerón, died when he fell from a pole during the Cumbre Tajín 2006 cultural festival. The elders of the Totonacs believe this was divine retribution and still prohibit the performance of the ritual to women participants.\n\nIn addition to whether or not there is a pole ceremony, other variations in the ritual exist. Among the Nahua and Otomi peoples, there is generally no dance before climbing the pole; the ceremony begins at the top. There is also a version where the suspended frame has five sides instead of four and the ritual involves six dancers and not five. The most traditional time to perform this version is on Holy Thursday at the culmination of a festival held on this day called the Huapangueada. Some dancers have rules to follow such as needing to fast for one or more days before the ceremony and abstain from sexual relations so that the gods will look upon the ceremony favorably. Most of the variations are found in Puebla state.\nHowever, the most controversial variation is whether or not to permit women to perform the ritual. In Papantla, which is the community most closely associated with the ritual. The Consejo de Ancianos Totonacas (Council of Totonac Elders) has formally prohibited the inclusion of women. Traditionally, women have been excluded from all Totonac ritual dancing. Even for the dance called La Maringuilla, the female protagonist is portrayed by a man. The prohibition stems from the belief that women are “bad entities, who bring bad luck” and their inclusion would be a sin and/or anger the gods.\n\nHowever, in a few communities, such as Cuetzalan and Pahuatlán in Puebla and Zozocolco de Hidalgo in Veracruz, women have been allowed to be voladores. Those who are allowed to take part must first complete a series of rituals designed to ask the forgiveness of the gods and Catholic saints for being a woman. The women must also be virgins without a boyfriend if unmarried or abstain from sexual relations before the ritual if married. If a female volador is found to have broken the rules of sexual abstention, she is taken to an altar which is surrounded by incense burners and candles. An image of the Archangel Michael or Saint James bears witness to the punishment, which involves a number of slaps to the face (bofetadas), with the quantity depending on the transgression and the decision of those in charge. It is claimed that the ritual cures “the fever” of the woman. It is believed that women who do not obey these rules will bring calamity to the ritual.\n\nIt is not known when the first female was allowed to take part as a volador. One of the first men to train women was Jesús Arroyo Ceron, who trained his daughter Isabel in 1972; after this, he trained his other three daughters. In March 2006, aged 70, he fell from a pole during the Cumbre Tajín celebrations and died. Family members believe he fell “at the side of the gods,” but many patriarchs believe the accident was divine retribution. A wooden cross and flowers at the Plaza del Volador in Parke Takilhsukut memorialize him. Approximately twenty female voladores are known to exist.\n\nIn Guatemala the flying pole dance, called \"Palo volador\", is still celebrated in Joyabaj (15 August), Chichicastenango (17–23 January) and Cubulco (26 July).\n\nAccording to Totonac myth, the gods told men, “Dance, and we shall observe.” Today, pleasing the gods of old is still a part of the most traditional version of the ritual. The Totonac dress for this ritual consists of red pants with a white shirt, a cloth across the chest and a cap. The pants, hat and chest cloth are heavily embroidered and otherwise decorated. The cloth across the chest symbolized blood. The hat is adorned with flowers for fertility; mirrors represent the sun and from the top stream multicolored ribbons representing the rainbow. These costumes are made by the voladores themselves and can cost between 5,000 and 8,000 pesos each.\n\nThe most traditional and lengthy version starts from the selection and cutting of the tree to be used, to the final dance after all voladores have descended from the pole. The tree selection, cutting and erecting ceremony is called the tsakáe kiki. It involves going into the forest to find a suitable tree and asking the permission or the pardon of the mountain god Quihuicolo for taking it. The tree is stripped of its branches and dragged to the ceremonial site, where a hole has been dug for the now-30-meter pole. Before erecting the pole, offerings of flowers, copal, alcohol, candles and live chickens or a live turkey are placed in the hole. These are then crushed as the pole is erected, adding to the fertility of the earth. The pole becomes a connection point between the sky and the earth and the underworld with the surface world, a representation of the world tree, and considered to be the fifth cardinal direction of the earth. The post and the dancers are then purified with alcohol sprinkled in the form of a cross and tobacco smoke.\n\nIn most cases, however, the pole used is a permanently placed one, often of steel, and this part of the ceremony does not take place. On these occasions, the ceremony begins with a dance and song type called a “son.” Usually the initial song played and danced to is called the “son of forgiveness.” After this, the five begin to climb the pole with the chief or “caporal” going first. The caporal will not descend but rather will stay at the top of the pole until near the end of the ceremony. The caporal stands on a capstan, called a manzana (apple) which is a small platform at the top of the pole. From this capstan is suspended a square frame called a cuadro (square) on which the other four voladores sit. While these four wind the ropes around the pole and tie themselves to the ends, the caporal plays the flute and drum acknowledging the four cardinal directions, beginning with the east because it is believed life came from this direction. The four ropes are each wound thirteen times for a total of fifty-two, the number of years in a Mesoamerican great year. The caporal then bends fully backwards to acknowledge the sun, playing all the while.\n\nThe four voladores represent the four cardinal directions as well as the four elements: earth, air, fire and water. The caporal represents the fifth sun. The four voladores seated on the cuadro face the caporal and at the appropriate moment fall backwards to descend to the ground suspended by the wound ropes. As the ropes unwind, the voladores spin, creating a moving pyramid shape. As the other voladores descend, the caporal plays the “son of goodbye” and dances on the narrow platform. Traditionally, after the descent, there is another dance of goodbye.\n\nThe Ritual Ceremony of the Voladores of Papantla was recognized as Intangible cultural heritage (ICH) by UNESCO in 2009. This is the second Mexican event to be so recognized, with the first being the Indigenous Festivity of the Dead in 2008. Governor Fidel Herrera Beltrán received the award in the name of the people and the government of Veracruz, and especially the indigenous people of the Totonacapan region of the state. Celebrations of the recognition took place on October 12, 2009, in Takilhsukut Park at El Tajín and other volador sites in Mexico. The ritual was inscribed along with the Traditions of the Otomi-Chichimecas of Toliman, Peña de Bernal, Querétaro.\n\nThe recognition carries the responsibility for Mexico to safeguard and promote the tradition to keep it alive. A part of the nomination process was an extensive regional plan of preservation, promotion and development of the cultural heritage in Veracruz and other parts of Mexico and Central America.\nOne effort that has been underway is the establishment of the Escuela de Niños Voladores (School of Volador Children), which is located at Takilhsukut Park and is the first formal school for voladores. It has a student population of between 70 and 100 students who learn about the history, significance and values associated with the ritual from the pre-Hispanic period. These include those associated with the taking of the pole, called a tsakáe kiwi, from the forest, an aspect of the ritual that is in danger of extinction. The school is sponsored by the Veracruz state government and children begin attending between 6 and 8 years of age. Most come from the neighboring communities of Plan de Hidalgo, El Tajín, San Lorenzo and Arroyos del Arco and Oxital, and whose fathers and grandfathers are voladores. The school requires students to meet certain requirements, such as being able to speak Totonac and girls are not permitted. However, most voladores learn the ritual from their fathers and grandfathers starting at age eight or ten. To become a volador in the traditional Totonac community requires 10 to 12 years ofpreparation and many consider it to be a life vocation.\n\nAnother effort to conserve and promote the tradition is the Encuentro de Voladores (Volador Encounter), which was begun in 2009 and coincides with the Cumbre Tajín spring equinox event of the El Tajín site. For five days, voladores from various places perform at the poles erected at the site. The objective is not only to see the different costumes and styles of the groups but to share experiences about the fertility ritual. Voladores come from as far as San Luis Potosí and Guatemala.\n\nOne reason for the need of protection is that in most cases in Mexico, the ritual is not performed for religious purposes. The first organization for voladores came about in the 1970s but also the commercialization of the ritual. There are about 600 professional voladores in Mexico.\n\nIn smaller communities, the ritual is enacted only on the feast day of the community’s patron saint or other religious events, but in larger communities, especially where there are tourists, it is performed as an attraction for donations. Two examples of this are the voladores that perform in Xcaret and Xel-Ha, and the Totonac voladores in Chapultepec Park in Mexico City, who are one of the parks major attractions. Some groups of voladores try to balance respect for the ritual while still performing for spectators. There is a formal established group in Boca del Río that has been recognized by municipal authorities and receives support in the way of space and a permanent pole.. The goal of the group is to offer to tourists a dignified version of the ritual at the Plaza Bandera that does not forget its roots. Members of the group are all natives of the city of Papantla. The ceremony is held in a public park and youths are required to leave items such as bicycles and skateboards outside the ceremonial space.\n\nTo promote the ritual and the culture behind it internationally, groups of voladores have performed in many parts of Mexico and other countries as part of cultural festivals. Voladores have performed at the Zapopum Festival in Guadalajara, the Festival of San Pedro in Monterrey, the Indian Summer Festival in Milwaukee, the Carnaval Cultural in Valparaíso, the Forúm Universal de las Culturas in Barcelona, and at an intercultural show in New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "2407427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2407427", "title": "Divine language", "text": "Divine language\n\nDivine language, the language of the gods, or, in monotheism, the language of God (or angels) is the concept of a mystical or divine proto-language, which predates and supersedes human speech.\n\nIn Judaism and Christianity, it is unclear whether the language used by God to address Adam was the language of Adam, who as name-giver (Genesis 2:19) used it to name all living things, or if it was a different divine language. But since God is portrayed as using speech during creation, and as addressing Adam before Gen 2:19, some authorities assumed that the language of God was different from the language of Paradise invented by Adam, while most medieval Jewish authorities maintained that the Hebrew language was the language of God, which was accepted in Western Europe from at least the 16th century and until the early 20th century. \n\nThe sacred language in Islam is Classical Arabic, which is a descendant of the Proto-Semitic language. Arabic, along with Hebrew and Aramaic, is a Semitic language. It is considered to be sacred, as, in the Muslim view, it is the language by which Allah revealed the final revealed book, the Quran, to Muhammad, Prophet of Islam, through the angel \"Jibril\".\n\nIn Vedic religion, \"speech\" Vāc, i.e. the language of liturgy, now known as Vedic Sanskrit, was considered the language of the gods.\n\nLater Hindu scholarship, in particular the Mīmāṃsā school of Vedic hermeneutics, distinguished \"Vāc\" from \"Śábda\", a distinction comparable to the Saussurian langue and parole. The concept of Sphoṭa was introduced as a kind of transcendent aspect of \"Śábda\".\n\nIn 1510, Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa published Book I of his \"De Occulta Philosophia\" (translated to English in 1651 as \"Three Books of Occult Philosophy\"). Chapter 23 of the book is entitled \"Of the tongue of Angels, and of their speaking amongst themselves, and with us\" - wherein he states:\nWe might doubt whether Angels, or Demons, since they are of pure spirits, use any vocal speech, or tongue amongst themselves, or to us; but that Paul in some place saith, If I speak with the tongue of men, or angels: but what their speech or tongue is, is much doubted by many. For many think that if they use any Idiome, it is Hebrew, because that was the first of all, and came from heaven, and was before the confusion of languages in Babylon, in which the Law was given by God the Father, and the Gospell was preached by Christ the Son, and so many Oracles were given to the Prophets by the Holy Ghost: and seeing all tongues have, and do undergo various mutations, and corruptions, this alone doth alwaies continue inviolated.\n\nLater, in chapter 27, Agrippa mentions the Divine Language again:\nBut because the letters of every tongue, as we shewed in the first book, have in their number, order, and figure a Celestiall and Divine originall, I shall easily grant this calculation concerning the names of spirits to be made not only by Hebrew letters, but also by Chaldean, and Arabick, Ægyptian, Greek, Latine, and any other...\n\nIn the late 16th century, the Elizabethan mathematician and scholar John Dee and the medium and alchemist Edward Kelley (both of whom were familiar with Agrippa's writings) claimed that during scrying sessions, a \"Celestial Speech\" was received directly from Angels. They recorded large portions of the language in their journals (published today as \"The Five Books of the Mysteries\" and \"A True and Faithful Relation...\"), along with a complete text in the language called the \"Book of Loagaeth\" (or \"Speech From God\"). Dee's language, called \"Angelical\" in his journals, often known today by the misnomer \"Enochian\", follows the basic Judeo-Christian mythology about the Divine Language. According to \"A True and Faithful Relation...\" Angelical was supposed to have been the language God used to create the world, and then used by Adam to speak with God and Angels and to name all things in existence. He then lost the language upon his Fall from Paradise, and constructed a form of proto-Hebrew based upon his vague memory of Angelical. This proto-Hebrew, then, was the universal human language until the time of the Confusion of Tongues at the Tower of Babel. After this, all the various human languages were developed, including an even more modified Hebrew (which we know as \"Biblical Hebrew\"). From the time of Adam to the time of Dee and Kelley, Angelical was hidden from humans with the single exception of the patriarch Enoch - who recorded the \"Book of Loagaeth\" for humanity, but the book was lost in the Deluge of Noah.\n\nGeorge William Russell in \"The Candle of Vision\" (1918) argued that (p. 120) \"The mind of man is made in the image of Deity, and the elements of speech are related to the powers in his mind and through it to the being of the Oversoul. These true roots of language are few, alphabet and roots being identical.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4936390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4936390", "title": "Edinburgh Festival Theatre", "text": "Edinburgh Festival Theatre\n\nThe Edinburgh Festival Theatre (originally Empire Palace Theatre and later shortened to Empire Theatre) is a performing arts venue located on Nicolson Street in Edinburgh, Scotland used primarily for performances of opera and ballet, large-scale musical events, and touring groups. After its most recent renovation in 1994, it seats 1,915. It is one of the major venues of the annual summer Edinburgh International Festival and is the Edinburgh venue for the Scottish Opera and the Scottish Ballet.\nThe present theatre’s location is Edinburgh’s longest continuous theatre site, for there has been a theatre in that location since 1830. From being Dunedin Hall, the Royal Amphitheatre, Alhambra Music Hall, the Queen’s Theatre, Pablo Fanque's Amphitheatre, and Newsome’s Circus, the site became the Empire Palace Theatre, the first of the famous Moss Empires’ chain, opening on 7 November 1892. Designed by the great British theatre architect, Frank Matcham, (who built the London Coliseum, among others) its décor was lavish, with elephants with Nubian riders, nymphs and cherubs in abundance on the plasterwork, and it seated 3000 people on four levels.\nFor the following twenty years all the top artists of the day played at the Empire Palace until, on 9 May 1911, there was a disastrous fire on stage. While all 3000 theatre goers escaped safely in about 2.5 minutes, there were eleven backstage deaths and the death of a lion). Film of the aftermath of the fire is held by the National Library of Scotland. The theatre reopened three months after the fire. \n\nNevertheless, given the long term competition from the growth of film as a popular medium, the theatre had to be re-equipped to present bigger and more spectacular shows. Reusing some of Matcham’s original design concepts, the theatre reopened on 1 October 1928 with the first production, the musical \"Show Boat\". Between 1928 and 1963 the Empire was a variety, musical and opera house, often including ice shows. \n\nBig names like Harry Lauder, Charles Laughton, Fats Waller, Joe Loss, and Laurel and Hardy appeared, while English comedians Max Wall, Morecambe and Wise and Harry Worth established themselves at the Empire.\n\nIn addition to the music hall and popular entertainers who appeared at the Empire, the theatre became a principal venue of the Edinburgh International Festival between 1947 and 1963. It was particularly associated with international ballet and, during the first Festival in 1947, Margot Fonteyn danced in \"The Sleeping Beauty\", while in subsequent years, performances by the Old Vic theatre company, the Royal Ballet and the Royal Opera were presented.\n\nHowever, for nearly thirty years after 1963 the theatre became a bingo hall, only temporarily serving as a Festival venue. In the early 1970s the venue shortened its name to simply the Empire Theatre and hosted live music events. Bands did not appear until after 11pm - once the bingo players had gone. Free (September 14, 1972), Wishbone Ash (December 9, 1972) and Focus (May 11, 1973) were among the acts appearing. Finally, after its third major remodeling, the Empire Theatre reopened in June 1994 with a glass-fronted structure for the new entrance (created by Law & Dunbar-Nasmith Architects), as the now-renamed \"Edinburgh Festival Theatre\". In 1997, the theatre manager and artistic director Stephen Barry was appointed to shape the rejuvenated venue's future. With the restoration of the Empire Theatre’s former 1928 glory, plus a dramatic mix of art nouveau, beaux arts and neo-classicism, and including adequate acoustics, the new theatre serves the artistic needs of the community.\n\nIn the twenty-first century, the theatre has played host to a wide number of touring productions of West End shows, including \"Les Misérables\" and \"War Horse\".\n\nThe theatre is said to be haunted by a tall, dark stranger rumoured to be the famous illusionist Sigmund Neuberger, a.k.a. The Great Lafayette, who was one of those who burned to death in the fire at the Empire in 1911. \n\n"}
{"id": "43399867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43399867", "title": "Eisner Award for Best Publication for Early Readers (up to age 8)", "text": "Eisner Award for Best Publication for Early Readers (up to age 8)\n\nThe Eisner Award for Best Publication for Early Readers (up to age 8) is an award for \"creative achievement\" in American comic books for early readers.\n\nNominees are listed below the winner(s) for each year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15630245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15630245", "title": "Erwin Faber", "text": "Erwin Faber\n\nErwin Faber (21 July 1891 – 4 May 1989) was a leading actor in Munich and later throughout Germany, beginning after World War I, and through the late-1970s, when he was still performing at the Residenz Theatre (The National Theatre of Bavaria). Born in Innsbruck, Austria, Faber remained in Germany during the Third Reich, emerging afterwards as a prominent actor in the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany). He died in Munich in 1989, only two months after his last performance at the Residenztheater (the National Theatre of Bavaria), at age 97.\n\nIn addition to performing in dozens of dramas and films in Germany, working with the leading directors in post-World War I Germany, such as Max Reinhardt, Otto Falckenberg, and Erich Engel, Faber also was chosen by Bertolt Brecht to play the leads in the first three staged plays of Brecht in Munich, beginning with \"Drums in the Night\" (\"Trommeln in der Nacht\") at the avant-garde theatre, the Munich Kammerspiele in September 1922, followed by \"In The Jungle of Cities\" (\"Im Dickicht der Städte\") at Munich's Residenz Theater in May 1923, and \"The Life of Edward II of England\" (\"Leben Eduards des Zweiten von England\") directed by Brecht himself in his directing debut and featuring Oskar Homolka, in March 1924.\nErwin Faber also played the lead in a film written by Brecht in 1923, \"Mysteries of a Barbershop\" (\"Mysterien eines Friseursalons\"), with leading comic and dramatic actors of Germany of that time: Karl Valentin, Liesl Karlstadt, Blandine Ebinger, Max Schreck, and Carola Neher. The 16-minute improvised film is now considered one of the hundred most important films in history of German film.\n\nErwin Faber also was cast by Ingmar Bergman for his film \"Life of the Marionettes\" in 1980.\n"}
{"id": "57959286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57959286", "title": "Fiorucci Made Me Hardcore", "text": "Fiorucci Made Me Hardcore\n\nFiorucci Made Me Hardcore is a 1999 collage film by British contemporary artist Mark Leckey.\n\n\"Fiorucci Made Me Hardcore\" came out of a discussion between Gavin Brown, Martin McGeown and Leckey. They were at a gallery private view in London, and Emma Dexter, then a curator at the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA), talked to Leckey. He argued that the most exciting art form of the time was the music video, and intrigued, Dexter invited him to make a work demonstrating it. It was later first screened at the ICA.\n\nThe title, Leckey said, was about the notion that \"something as trite and throwaway and exploitative as a jeans manufacturer (Fiorucci) can be taken by a group of people and made into something totemic, and powerful, and life-affirming.\" In a 2015 Guardian article, Leckey admitted that he cried while working on the film.\n\n\"Fiorucci Made Me Hardcore\" is collaged from tape footage from 70s, 80s and 90s underground dance scene in the UK, including portions of footage from the 1977 Tony Palmer film The Wigan Casino. It starts with the disco scene of the 1970s, touches upon the Northern soul of the late 1970s and early 1980s and climaxes with the rave scene of the 1990s; the mashup soundtrack Leckey created for the film follows the same temporal structure as a soundscape, with him occasionally interjecting dialogue. Notably, at one point, an animated element - a bird tattoo image - appears as if released from the hand of a dancer, then carried into the next shot finds its place on the arm of another of the film's nightclubbing subjects. The film follows a looping structure, bookending itself with a low frame rate time-lapse shot of clouds.\n\nCharlotte Higgins, writing for The Guardian, remarked that 'Fiorucci changed the game.' Jamie xx sampled dialogue from the film, including Leckey reciting the names of fashion brands, on \"All Under One Roof Raving\". \n\nIn July 2018, Leckey's YouTube upload of Fiorucci Made Me Hardcore was temporarily taken down by FremantleMedia, but was reactivated two days later.\n"}
{"id": "31464892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31464892", "title": "Gazette des Beaux-Arts", "text": "Gazette des Beaux-Arts\n\nThe Gazette des Beaux-Arts was a French art review, founded in 1859 by Édouard Houssaye, with Charles Blanc as its first chief editor. Assia Visson Rubinstein was chief editorial secretary under the direction of George Wildenstein from 1936 until 1960. Her papers, which include all editions of the \"Gazette\" from this period, are intact at the Cantonal and University Library of Lausanne in Dorigny. The \"Gazette\" was a world reference work on art history for nearly 100 years - one other editor in chief, from 1955 to 1987, was Jean Adhémar. It was bought in 1928 by the Wildenstein family, whose last representative was Daniel Wildenstein, its director from 1963 until his death in 2001. The magazine was published monthly and was headquartered in Paris. The review closed in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43539092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43539092", "title": "Guy Ben-Ari", "text": "Guy Ben-Ari\n\nGuy Ben-Ari (born 1984 in Tel Aviv, Israel) is an Israeli painter living and working in New York City.\n\nBen-Ari received his MFA from Columbia University's School of the Arts in 2011, and his BFA with honors from Bezalel Academy of Art and Design in Jerusalem in 2009, where he received the Presser Award for Excellence in Painting. In 2008, Ben-Ari was selected for the Exchange Program for Merit Students to study Painting at the Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, London.\n\nBen-Ari's body of work focuses on the connection between Psychoanalytic theory, Semiotics and the medium of painting. Following the Psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan’s notion that 'The word kills the thing' by fixing its meaning, he uses an illustrative approach to examine the way metaphors, when taken literally, become dysfunctional. Ben-Ari is interested in the implications of using painting, a medium that rejects literal interpretation, to analyze concepts that reject visual interpretation. Ben-Ari's recent work uses painting as a framework to study elements of post-structuralism and psychoanalytic theory. Much of his work originates in jokes or illustrations of related concepts and situations, as he attempts to employ a literal strategy in an image, without collapsing into a mere illustration.\n\nSince 2009, Ben-Ari runs an arts cultural group with artist Leah Wolf called \"Meta Meta Meta\", to help support the arts in their community in Brooklyn.\n\nBen-Ari is a recent artist-in-residence at the Lower East Side Printshop, Triangle Arts in Brooklyn, New York and was a SIP Award recipient from the Robert Blackburn Printmaking Workshop Program at The Elizabeth Foundation for the Arts. Ben-Ari also worked as an Artist-in-Residence at the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council Workspace Residency and at the NARS Foundation, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "36098812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36098812", "title": "Karen Wheeler", "text": "Karen Wheeler\n\nKaren Sue Wheeler (born 1955 in Winfield, Kansas) is an American artist who was born with a neurodegenerative condition called spinal muscular atrophy which causes muscle wasting. She uses a technique called \"layering\" that resembles colored pencil. Each painting that she produces takes from 150–500 hours to complete.\n\nWheeler was born in 1955 in Winfield, Kansas, and is the middle of three children. Her parents were told she would not live beyond a year old. Wheeler says that she started creating art when she was 5, because she was unable to play outside.\n\nWheeler attended Santa Ana College before transferring to California State University, Fullerton, where she received a Master’s Degree in Art in 1981 with a 4.0 grade point average.\n\nWheeler has developed a sling-like device that she wears on her arm to assist her with wielding her tools, rather a brush, pencil or pen. She uses a small brush and very little pigment that creates a dry-brush effect called \"layering\" that resembles colored pencil. Each painting that she produces takes from 150–500 hours to complete.\n\nWheeler served on the Board of Directors of Very Special Arts California from 1985 to 1992, and currently serves as an honorary board member. She was selected as Disabled Professional Woman of the Year by the Pilot Club of Southeast Los Angeles in 1990, and has been a Board member of the (Las) Vegas Artists Guild since 2003, serving two terms as President and was the Director of Vegas Artists Guild, and in charge of Shows until September 2012.\n\nIn April 2012, Wheeler with business partner, William Schnell co-created GoHitYourself.com. They created the site to educate persons with disabilities on how to better their situations and to illuminate these situations for the able-bodied person. In 2014, Wheeler and Schnell rebranded and merged GoHitYourself.com with Wheeler's personal site where her amazing art is now profiled alongside her stories about living with a disability. The rebranded site is located at KarenWheeler.com.\n\nWheeler's early works are watercolor, but she has also used oil paints, acrylics, pencils and ink. Her subject matter varies but she is known to hide a rose in most of her pieces which symbolizes herself.\n\n"}
{"id": "44369430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44369430", "title": "King Neptune (statue)", "text": "King Neptune (statue)\n\nKing Neptune is a large bronze statue located in Virginia Beach, Virginia and sculpted by Paul DiPasquale. The statue depicts the mythological god Neptune and is located at the entrance of Neptune Park on the Virginia Beach boardwalk on 31st Street. This sculpture weighs 12 tons. and is listed as or tall. The design consists of a 12-foot tall rock base surrounded by various fish, dolphins, lobsters, and octopuses. Above this base, the figure of Neptune begins, starting with his waist. Neptune holds a trident in his right hand and rests his left hand on a loggerhead turtle.\n\nIn 2003, the Neptune Festival requested submission designs for a statue. Cameron Kitchin, the Director of the Contemporary Arts Center of Virginia Beach asked DiPasquale to submit his design of a statue of King Neptune. DiPasquale sent the clay model to the Festival’s sculpture committee. \n\nUpon arriving in the United States, the three pieces needed interior support before being reassembled. Due to exceeding its budget, the Chinese manufacturers inserted a weak metal to support the statue. This material was cleared out and substituted by a stainless steel skeletal support. According to DiPasquale, replacing the interior and reorganizing the individual pieces together required a month and a half of welding.\n\nIn 2015, the 7 foot maquette that served as a model for the sculpture was donated for display at the Cape Charles boardwalk.\n"}
{"id": "310923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310923", "title": "Lie groupoid", "text": "Lie groupoid\n\nIn mathematics, a Lie groupoid is a groupoid where the set formula_1 of objects and the set formula_2 of morphisms are both manifolds, the source and target operations\n\nare submersions, and all the category operations (source and target, composition, and identity-assigning map) are smooth.\n\nA Lie groupoid can thus be thought of as a \"many-object generalization\" of a Lie group, just as a groupoid is a many-object generalization of a group. Just as every Lie group has a Lie algebra, every Lie groupoid has a Lie algebroid.\n\n\nBeside isomorphism of groupoids there is a more coarse notation of equivalence, the so-called Morita equivalence. A quite general example is the Morita-morphism of the Čech groupoid which goes as follows. Let \"M\" be a smooth manifold and formula_13 an open cover of \"M\". Define formula_14 the disjoint union with the obvious submersion formula_15. In order to encode the structure of the manifold \"M\" define the set of morphisms formula_16 where formula_17. The source and target map are defined as the embeddings formula_18 and formula_19. And multiplication is the obvious one if we read the formula_20 as subsets of \"M\" (compatible points in formula_20 and formula_22 actually are the same in \"M\" and also lie in formula_23).\n\nThis Čech groupoid is in fact the pullback groupoid of formula_24, i.e. the trivial groupoid over \"M\", under \"p\". That is what makes it Morita-morphism.\n\nIn order to get the notion of an equivalence relation we need to make the construction symmetric and show that it is also transitive. In this sense we say that 2 groupoids formula_25 and formula_26 are Morita equivalent iff there exists a third groupoid formula_27 together with 2 Morita morphisms from \"G\" to \"K\" and \"H\" to \"K\". Transitivity is an interesting construction in the category of groupoid principal bundles and left to the reader.\n\nIt arises the question of what is preserved under the Morita equivalence. There are 2 obvious things, one the coarse quotient/ orbit space of the groupoid formula_28 and secondly the stabilizer groups formula_29 for corresponding points formula_30 and formula_31.\n\nThe further question of what is the structure of the coarse quotient space leads to the notion of a smooth stack. We can expect the coarse quotient to be a smooth manifold if for example the stabilizer groups are trivial (as in the example of the Čech groupoid). But if the stabilizer groups change we cannot expect a smooth manifold any longer. The solution is to revert the problem and to define:\n\nA smooth stack is a Morita-equivalence class of Lie groupoids. The natural geometric objects living on the stack are the geometric objects on Lie groupoids invariant under Morita-equivalence. As an example consider the Lie groupoid cohomology.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19739765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19739765", "title": "Light skin in Japanese culture", "text": "Light skin in Japanese culture\n\nAlthough skin tone differs based on a person's racial background, those with fair skin have difficulty maintaining skin tone due to melanin production. In Japan the preference for skin that is white and free of blemishes has been documented since at least the Heian period (794-1185), as in books like \"The Pillow Book\" and \"The Tale of Genji\". There is an old proverb which refers to a white-skinned woman being beautiful even if her features are not attractive. \n\nThe cultural fallout of Japanese colonial rule in Taiwan (1895–1945) has resulted in Taiwanese women becoming consumers of Japanese skin whitening products in the 20th century. Mainland China has also become a large market for \"bihaku\" products from companies like Shiseido, Shu Uemura and SK-II in the 21st century. Further expansion into pan-Asian markets may be represented by Girls' Generation partnership with Dior in 2011 to advertise their lightening cream, appealing to Korean Wave culture consumers.\n\nBihaku products are highly popular among mature women. They are also popular with teenage girls and those in their twenties who desire to look like pop singers, such as Ayumi Hamasaki, and are promoted in numerous youth fashion magazines such as \"Popteen\" and \"S Cawaii!\". Bihaku products are also prevalent and a key item in numerous youth subcultures such as gyaru and ageha girls. An opposition to the idea of fair skin beauty grew with the gyaru subculture called \"ganguro\" in the 1990s although died out by the end of the 2000s.\n\nThe popular method of \"bihaku\" is to use cosmetics that stop the production of melanin. Traditionally \"uguisu no fun\" was used to lighten and balance skin tone although today it is considered a luxury item. The most popular products often contain sake and rice bran which contain kojic acid.\n\nFor skin whitening cosmetics for use by the public, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has recognized a combination of active ingredients. These are mainly arbutin and kojic acid. Other ingredients include Vitamin C derivatives, tranexamic acid and ten-odd other types. Many of these active ingredients work through inhibiting catechol oxidase. Some types of BB cream, VIORIS products are also said to have skin whitening effects which contributes to the popularity of the cream in Asian markets.\n\nAs for other methods of skin whitening, other decolorizing chemicals can be used. Aesthetic skin decolorizing surgeries can also be performed, but excessive cleansings can cause a number of problems, such as facial inflammation, but in the 2000s this is in decline. Historically, the droppings of the have been used as an ingredient in face-washes for whitening skin.\n\n"}
{"id": "39315095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39315095", "title": "List of American feminist literature", "text": "List of American feminist literature\n\nFeminist literature is fiction or nonfiction which supports the feminist goals of defining, establishing and defending equal civil, political, economic and social rights for women. It often identifies women's roles as unequal to those of menparticularly as regards status, privilege and powerand generally portrays the consequences to women, men, families, communities and societies as undesirable.\n\nThe following is a list of American feminist literature listed by year of first publication, then within the year alphabetically by title. Books and magazines are in italics, all other types of literature are not and are in quotation marks. References lead when possible to a link to the full text of the literature.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3568208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3568208", "title": "List of animators", "text": "List of animators\n\nThis is a list of notable animators:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2110232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2110232", "title": "List of horn techniques", "text": "List of horn techniques\n\nSome of these horn techniques are not unique to the horn, but are applicable to most or all wind instruments.\"\n\nThis is the act of fully closing off the bell of the instrument with either the right hand or a special stopping mute. This results in producing a somewhat nasal sound. When required, in the sheet music the usual notation is a '+' above the note followed by a 'o' above notes that are to be played open. For longer stopped passages, the word indicating a stopped horn is written out.\n\nThe pitch lowers gradually when the hand is placed in the bell and slowly moved inward. When the bell is completely covered (stopped), the pitch falls to a half-step above the next lower partial (harmonic). For example, playing a middle C (F-horn, open) and gradually covering the bell into stopped horn, the pitch will lower a major 3rd to A (or 1/2 step above G, the next lower partial). However, playing a 3rd space C (F-horn, open) and repeating the stopped horn, the pitch will lower a half-step to a B-natural (or 1/2 step above B, the next lower partial). The hand horn technique developed in the classical period, with music pieces requiring the use of covering the bell to various degrees to lower the pitch accordingly. Mozart's four Horn Concertos, Concert Rondo and Morceau de Concert were written with this technique in mind, as was the music both Beethoven and Brahms wrote for the horn. \n\nSome modern composers have incorrectly notated that the horn is to bend an open pitch upward to a stopped pitch. This is impossible. The horn pitch can only be bent downward into a stopped pitch. It is believed that players play the next harmonic higher without realising and this has given rise to this erroneous belief.\n\nThere is also an effect that is occasionally called for, usually in French music, called \"echo horn\", \"hand mute\" or \"sons d'écho\" (see Dukas's \"The Sorcerer's Apprentice\") which is like stopped horn, but different in that the bell is not closed as tightly. The player closes the hand enough so that the pitch drops 1/2 step, but, especially in the middle register, this is not closed as tightly as for stopped horn. Consequently, when playing echo horn, the player fingers one half step higher.\n\nAlso, the hand can be partially inserted into the bell in such a fashion as to lower the pitch of the horn one quarter tone, an extended technique used in some modern compositions today.\n\nBefore the advent of the valve horn, a player would increase the number of playable notes beyond the normal harmonic series by changing the position of his/her hand in the bell. It is possible to use a combination of stopping, hand-muting (3/4 stopping), and half-stopping (to correct notes that would otherwise be out of tune) to play almost every note of a mid-range chromatic scale on one fingering. Most modern pieces for hand-horn tend to spend more time in the higher ranges, as there are more notes that can be played naturally (without altering hand position and maintaining pure tone) above the 8th note of any harmonic series. The most well known natural hornist virtuoso who was in the classical period was Giovanni Punto, which is said to have been able to play 'anything' on his natural horn\n\nMany older pieces for horn were written for a horn not keyed in F as is standard today. As a result, a requirement for modern orchestra hornists is to be able to read music directly in these keys. This is most commonly done by transposing the music on the fly into F. A reliable way to transpose is to liken the written notes (which rarely deviate from written C, D, E, F, G, and occasionally A) to their counterparts in the scale the F horn will be playing in.\n\nCommonly seen transpositions include:\n\n\nSome less common transpositions include:\nIt has been speculated that one of the reasons Brahms wrote for horn in the awkward key of B(♮) was to encourage the horn players to use the natural horn; he did not like the sound of the new valved horns and wrote all his horn parts playable for natural horn, same as Carl Maria von Weber did.\n\nSometimes it is unclear as to whether a piece should be transposed up or down (i.e. B alto versus B basso when only B is written). Various factors can be taken into account when choosing e.g. which direction keeps the music in the horn's normal range. Also the history of the composer can be used. For Haydn symphonies which include trumpet parts, the lower transposition for the horns is usually correct; otherwise, the high transposition is usually correct. Sometimes multiple pitches were used to get a greater number of available tones. This is especially true for works in minor keys to be able to play the minor third (e.g. Mozart Symphony Nr. 40)\n\nNormal tonguing consists of interrupting the air stream by tapping the back of the front teeth with the tongue as said in the syllables 'da', 'ta', 'doo', or 'too'. Double tonguing consists of alternating between the 'ta' and the 'ka' sounds or between the 'da' and 'ga' sounds. The tongue makes the same movement as if the player is repeatedly saying 'kitty' or 'ticket.' Triple tonguing is most used for patterns of three notes and is made with the syllables 'ta-ta-ka', 'ta-ka-ta', or 'da-ga-da.'\n\nA lip trill is a rapid oscillation between neighboring harmonics - used primarily for whole-step trills from second-line G up approximately an octave. Lip trills are possible both lower and higher, but much lower than E and the harmonics are too far apart for a whole step, and much higher and harmonics are too narrow. Many books give fingering charts for lip trills, but the double horn gives further options. In his book \"The Horn\", Barry Tuckwell also gives a fingering chart of possible 'faux' 1/2 step lip trills.\n\nMultiphonics is the act of producing more than one pitch simultaneously on the horn. To do this, one note is produced as normal while another is sung. One of its earliest uses occurs in the Concertino for Horn and Orchestra by Carl Maria von Weber (Norman del Mar believed these chords to be impossible to play ).\n\nAnother kind of multiphonics can be achieved by simultaneously playing two neighbouring notes of the harmonic series.\n\nInformation on this subject can be found at the article on circular breathing.\n\nHorns tend to fill with water. It may appear that all of the valve tubes will require disassembling. By holding the horn so the bell is up in the air, holding down the third valve and flipping the first and second while rotating the horn back to the normal position, all of the water in the valves is now in the third valve tubings.\n\nOn some horns, depending on the type of valves fitted, a high F' (concert pitch) can sound out while pressing the first valve of the F side down halfway.\n\nA high D can be obtained by pulling out completely the first tuning slide of the F-horn.\n\nNormally expensive slide greases are used to lubricate the slides. Sometimes petroleum jelly (e.g. Vaseline) is used in lieu. This is not a recommended practice since the rotary valve oil can dissolve and wash the jelly into the valves. Anhydrous lanolin is considered a better alternative.\n\n"}
{"id": "25115701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25115701", "title": "Lottie Venne", "text": "Lottie Venne\n\nLottie Venne (28 May 1852 – 16 July 1928) was a British comedian, actress and singer of the Victorian and Edwardian eras, who enjoyed a theatre career spanning five decades. Venne began her stage career in musical burlesque before moving into farce and comedy. She appeared in several works by each of F. C. Burnand and W. S. Gilbert and was often in plays with Charles Hawtrey later in her career.\n\nBorn as Hannah Charlotte Venne, her first professional appearance came in 1867 as Miss Charbonnel in \"A Dream in Venice\" at the Gallery of Illustration in London, followed by two years touring in the provinces. For part of this time, she joined Captain Disney Roebuck's touring company, where she met her future husband, Walter H. Fisher. In London, in 1870, Venne played Susan Piper in \"A Bull in a China Shop\", a comedy by Charles Mathews at the Haymarket Theatre. At the same theatre, she appeared as Jemima in \"Rural Felicity\" by John Baldwin Buckstone. In the early 1870s, she played many roles in musical burlesques such as Francis Talfourd's \"Atalanta\" as Cupid, \"Little Jack Sheppard\" as Jonathan Wild (1871 on tour), \"Dr. Faust\" as Franz, \"Ixion\" as Cupid (1873), and \"Don Juan\" as Zerlina (1873 at the Alhambra Theatre). She played Polly Twinkle in \"La vie Parisienne\" in 1872, and, at the Court Theatre, played in \"Christabel\", \"Zampa\", \"Lady Audley's Secret\" and others.\n\nVenne played the role of Zayda in the 1873 play \"The Happy Land\" by W. S. Gilbert (under the pseudonym F. Latour Tomline) and Gilbert Arthur à Beckett at the Court Theatre, together with Fisher. The same year, in the same house, she appeared in \"Playing with Fire\". In 1874, she joined the company at the Strand Theatre, where she first played Lady Constance in \"The Field of the Cloth of Gold\". She remained at that theatre for four years in burlesques and comedies, such as \"Nemesis\" by H. B. Farnie, \"Loo and the Party Who Took Miss\", \"Intimidad\", \"Flamingo\", \"Cracked Heads\" (1876, a parody of Gilbert's \"Broken Hearts\") by Arthur Clements and Frederick Hay, \"The Lying Dutchman\", \"Princess Toto\" by Gilbert and Frederic Clay, \"Champagne\", and as the Plaintiff in Gilbert and Sullivan's \"Trial by Jury\" in 1877, opposite Fisher's Defendant. Also at the Strand, she played Penelope, the bewildered housemaid, in Sydney Grundy's comedy \"The Snowball\" and appeared in \"Our Club\" and \"The Baby\".\nShe built her popularity through a series of roles in works by F. C. Burnand, including \"Dora and Diplunacy\", a burlesque of \"Diplomacy\" (in which she parodied Effie Bancroft), \"Family Ties\" and \"The Red Rover\" (a burlesque of Robertson's sentimental plays). In 1879, at the Royalty Theatre, she played Eliza in a revival of \"The Zoo\" by B. C. Stephenson and Arthur Sullivan. The same year, she was particularly successful playing the title role in Burnand's farce \"Betsy\" at the Criterion Theatre. This was followed by comic roles such as Amy Jones in \"Crutch and Toothpick\" by G. R. Sims at the Royalty (1879), and by roles in \"Young Mrs. Winthrop\", and \"On Change\". She also played the title role in \"Jane\". In 1880, she was Kitty Clark in \"The Little Mother\" at the Gaiety Theatre, London.\n\nVenne appeared in the 1881 comedy \"Out of the Hunt\" at the Comedy Theatre with E. H. Sothern. The same year, she played Mrs. Pilate Pump in \"Blue and Buff\", Mrs. Delafield in \"Reclaimed\" and Gwendolyn Kingfisher in \"Dust\". In 1882, she was Nettie Milsom in \"The Manager\" and starred as Mary Ledger, with Marion Terry and Johnston Forbes-Robertson, in G. W. Godfrey's comedy \"The Parvenu\" at the Court Theatre. Reviewing the play, \"The Labour Standard\" wrote, \"Venne is the Princess of the play; her style is charming, and her voice is clear and sweet.\" In 1883, she was Marceline in \"Lurette\" Fleurette in \"Barbe-Bleue\" and Peg O'Reilly in \"The Glass of Fashion\" by Grundy at the Globe Theatre, with Herbert Beerbohm Tree. Among many other roles in the mid-1880s, she played Agatha Poskett in Arthur Wing Pinero's \"The Magistrate\" (1885 at the Court Theatre) and Honour in Robert Buchanan's \"Sophia\" (1886; adapted from Fielding's \"Tom Jones\" at the Vaudeville Theatre).\n\nIn 1887, she was Rose in a version of the \"Arabian Nights\", by Von Moser, with Charles Hawtrey and W. S. Penley. The next year, she starred as Mrs. Bardell with Rutland Barrington and Arthur Cecil at the Comedy Theatre in \"Pickwick\" by Burnand and Edward Solomon. Barrington commented, \"This great little artist possesses, in addition to her many charms, a wonderful manner of speaking that kind of doubtful line which is sometimes alluded to by journalists as 'skating on thin ice'; and this power was occasionally abused by authors, much to her distress. She once came to me at rehearsal and pointing out a speech said, 'B. dear, I can't say that, now, can I?' My obvious reply was, 'Well, Lottie, if you can't, no one can.'\" She also appeared and as Polly Eccles in \"Caste\" by T. W. Robertson (1889 at the Criterion Theatre. In 1890, she was Pert in \"London Assurance\" by Dion Boucicault at the Avenue Theatre, followed by two seasons at the Comedy Theatre, including in \"Poet and Puppets\", a travesty of Oscar Wilde's \"Lady Windermere's Fan\", by Charles Brookfield, with Charles Hawtrey. In 1893, she was in a musical piece by Brookfield and Seymour Hicks called \"Under the Clock\" at the Court Theatre, also starring Brookfield as Sherlock Holmes and Hicks as Dr. Watson. Venne played Hannah, a maid of all-work. That year, she also played Zulu in \"Forbidden Fruit\" at the Vaudeville.\n\nWith the advent of Edwardian musical comedy, Venne appeared in George Edwardes hits as Lady Virginia Forrest in \"The Gaiety Girl\" (1893), as Madame Amelia in \"An Artist's Model\" (1895) and as Lady St. Mallory in \"Three Little Maids\" (1902). In 1894, she was in Burnand's \"A Gay Widow\" with Hawtrey and Eva Moore. After \"An Artist's Model\", she toured in the companies of Lewis Waller and Lillie Langtry. She returned to London in 1896 and resumed playing a constant schedule of new roles, including Lady Barker in \"The Mermaids\" at the Garrick Theatre. She was Lady Horton in \"The Royal Star\" with Willie Edouin (1898). She starred as Mrs. Candour in a 1900 revival of \"The School for Scandal\" at the Haymarket Theatre.\n\nAmong her roles after this were Fatima Wilson West in \"The Love Birds\" at the Savoy Theatre and Xenofa in \"His Highness, My Husband\" by William Boosey, at the Comedy Theatre, with Eric Lewis (1904). She starred as Mrs. Parker-Jennings in W. Somerset Maugham's hit play \"Jack Straw\", in 1908, with Hawtrey at the Vaudeville Theatre. In 1910, she appeared as Mrs. Cummin in \"Little Miss Cummin\" with Marie Lohr at the Playhouse Theatre, and the same year, she was Mrs. Malaprop in \"The Rivals\", by Richard Brinsley Sheridan at the Lyric Theatre. The next year, among other roles, she was Mrs. Grundy in \"Orpheus in the Underground\" at His Majesty's Theatre. In 1912, at the Criterion, she was Lady Julia Ventermere in \"A Young Man's Fancy\". She continued to performa a heavy schedule through the end of World War I and beyond.\n\nVenne was also in the 1917 film \"Masks and Faces\". Later stage appearances included the role of Mrs. Shuttleworth, with Charles Hawtrey and Gladys Cooper, in Maugham's \"Home and Beauty\" in 1919 at the Playhouse Theatre. That year, she was also Mary Knowle in \"The Romantic Age\", a comedy by A. A. Milne at the Comedy Theatre. Later, she played Lady Catherine in \"The Circle\" at the Haymarket Theatre. She also reprised her role in \"Jack Straw\" (1923) and appeared in \"The Claimant\" (1924). The next year, at the Lyric Theatre, Hammersmith, she appeared in \"Lionel and Clarissa\". Her last performance was at the Lyric, Hammersmith on 30 September 1927.\n\nBy the end of her career, Venne had appeared in over 200 roles. The theatre community feted Venne in a Jubilee \"super-matinee\" celebration on 13 November 1925. For the occasion, J. M. Barrie provided scenes from a new play, \"Shall We Join the Ladies?\" starring Dion Boucicault, Jr., Gwen Ffrangcon Davies, Ronald Squire, Marie Lohr, Johnston Forbes-Robertson, Gladys Cooper, Gerald du Maurier and others. Others who took part in the celebration included Sonnie Hale, Henry Ainley, Jack Hulbert, Cicely Courtneidge, Marie Tempest, Madge Kendal (who gave the tribute to her) and George Grossmith, Jr.\n\nVenne married actor Walter H. Fisher, with whom she had performed early in her career on tour, in \"The Happy Land\" and in \"Trial by Jury\". Their son was the actor H. J. Fisher, and their daughter the actress Audrey Fisher.\n\nShe died in a London nursing home in 1928, aged 76 years. Venne's obituary in \"The Times\" commented that her \"knowing smile, a smirk that was all her own, made her a personality regarded with real affection during her long [career]\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16593589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16593589", "title": "MBH Architects", "text": "MBH Architects\n\nMBH Architects is an architecture and interior design firm founded in October 1989 by architects John McNulty and Dennis Heath. The firm is headquartered in a LEED Gold certified office in Alameda, California in the San Francisco Bay Area. \n\nExamples of its work include the design of several P.F. Chang's China Bistros, work for the Hilton Grand Vacations Company, and the Sonoma Mountain Village Rohnert Park redevelopment.\n\nThe company was founded in 1989 by architects John McNulty and Dennis Heath after they left Gensler. The company has specialized in retail, hospitality, and high-density residential design, and its list of clients includes Adidas, Estée Lauder, Kmart, Rite Aid, Starbucks, and Walgreens. Its first retail work was commissioned by Gap and by 2001 the company had designed some 300 Gap's Old Navy stores.\n\nOne of MBH’s first sustainable projects was a 100,000+ square foot Target store, built in 1995, Fullerton, CA. It was labeled the United States Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star Showcase and Target's first \"green\" building for its use of skylights that cut the original energy consumption by 24% with a 5 year payback. Target was awarded a \"Green Lights Partner/Ally of the Year Award\" for this store.\n\nIn June 2000 the company paid a large fine to the Business Software Alliance for using a quantity of unlicensed software. In 2005 the company won the Structural Ingenuity category at the annual Canstruction event with a model of the Pantheon made from 3,648 tin cans. Members of staff have taken part in the Fortune Battle of the Corporate Bands with their amateur pop group named \"The 4-Inch Studs\" coming second in 2008.\n\nLike many other companies involved with construction, MBH suffered in the late-2000s recession: its revenue fell by half which forced it to lay off 160 of its 220 employees, and in December 2008 City National Bank froze its line of credit and threatened to call in a $3 million loan. Today MBH employs over 150 staff who provide architectural services on commercial, hospitality, retail, multi-family housing, and restaurant projects.\n\nSince 1995, the company has received many awards, most recently winning \"Best Retail Project\" and \"Best Multi Family Housing Project-4 to 6 Stories Rental\" at the PCBC Gold Nugget Awards in 2010. From 2005 to 2008 it was listed as one of the San Francisco Business Times \"100 Best Places to Work in the Bay Area\", and between 2000 and 2004 it won several awards for its restaurant designs for P. F. Chang's China Bistro.\n\nIn 2005, VM&SD Magazines listed MBH as number 9 in a list of the top 50 U.S. retail architectural firms. In March 2011, DDI Magazine included MBH at number 9 in a list of the top 20 North American retail design companies based on 2010 revenue for retail design services.\n\nIn 2017, MBH expanded its East Coast presence with the acquisition of New York-based Anderson Architects. \nIn 2018, MBH acquired Christiani Johnson Architects, a San Francisco-based architecture and interior design firm.\n\nMBH has designed and built over 330 restaurants. This work has included collaboration with Engstrom Design Group, Pat Kuleto, and JMA Ventures on two large waterfront restaurants, Epic Roasthouse and Waterbar, located near the Ferry Building in San Francisco. Other San Francisco restaurants include Momo’s, Pedro's Cantina, 301, and Elroy’s. The company has designed several P.F. Chang's China Bistros, receiving several awards for their designs.\n\nMBH’s housing portfolio consists of multi-family residential projects, including historical renovations, mixed-use, rowhouses, high rises, affordable housing, and senior housing. MBH has built over 2,225 units and designed more than 9,000 units.\n\nMBH’s rehabilitation projects include the Hathaway Warehouse in Rincon Hill, San Francisco. Built in the 1850s—perhaps as early as 1856—the Hathaway Warehouse is one of the oldest remaining warehouses in the city and is designated as a historically Significant Building. MBH's design kept most of the building’s brick exterior, masonry, heavy timber framing, and granite foundations while juxtaposing them against modern material. The building is now known as Harbor Lofts and MBH received a Gold Nugget Award for Award of Merit, Adaptive Reuse in 1997 for the conversion.\n\nThe Coffin Reddington Building, also in Rincon Hill, was built in 1937 as an office building/warehouse. It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. MBH received a Gold Nugget Award for converting the old building into 53 luxury lofts and two high-end restaurants on the ground floor.\n\nIn 2004, MBH won the Residential Architect Award and the 2003 Gold Nugget Award for the North Beach Malt House, an early 20th-century industrial concrete and steel building. MBH converted the inner structure to residential spaces but retained two of the original steel silos; the building's most prominent features. One silo is now used for a lobby/courtyard entry point and both are historical artifacts of the brewing process and preserve the building’s history.\n\nThe Sony PlayStation store at the Sony Metreon Entertainment Complex in San Francisco, CA was conceived and designed as both a retail outlet for the PlayStation consoles and games and as an arcade with video kiosks and a circular bar of monitors open for all customers to play. The store design won MBH and its collaborator, New York design firm, Thinc Design several awards in 1999 and 2000.\n\nMBH worked with Gensler and Page & Turnbull at One Powell, an eight story historical building at the intersection of Powell and Market Street in San Francisco. Originally built in 1921 by the Bank of Italy, the building had been solely occupied by that bank and its successor, Bank of America. The renovation, which was completed in 2005, included conversion of the upper floors into multi family house consisting of studio, one, and two bedroom units, for which MBH's Interior group led the design.\n\nMBH planned the interior office space for the headquarters of MetroRisk in South Beach, San Francisco. MBH also completed several space plans for the Union Bank of California and the redesign of the corporate headquarters of Bi-Rite Food Distributors. Most recently, MBH completed the tenant improvement for EPIC’s new office in San Francisco.\n\nMBH has been an executive architect and design architect for Hilton Worldwide and Marriott International. MBH has completed for Marriott: the Marriott Event Pavilion in Irvine, California; Newport Coast Villas in Newport Beach, California, which includes 600 timeshare units on 75 acres; and Marriott's Shadow Ridge in Palm Desert, California.\n\nFor Hilton, MBH created the hotel construction documents for the Paris Las Vegas casino/hotel in Las Vegas, and was one of the architects for two Las Vegas Hilton Grand Vacations Clubs: Las Vegas Hilton and Strip. Currently MBH is working on the seismic upgrade of the San Francisco Hilton in Union Square along with the renovation of the Grand Ballroom and Tower 3 guestrooms.\n\nMBH designed The San Francisco Fire Credit Union (SFFCU), which received a Gold Nugget award of merit in 2001 for Best Professional Building and completed Serramonte Corporate Center in Daly City, California in 2003, now home to Kaiser Permanente. MBH has also completed the Corporate Headquarters for Tucker Marks, P.F. Chang's China Bistro, The Good Tidings Foundation, Metro/Risk, Sitzman – Morris – Lavis, and Motorola Companies. In 2007 the company was a consultant for commercial architecture for the Sonoma Mountain Village Rohnert Park redevelopment.\n\nSome of the largest MBH projects have revolved around community, city, and public transit planning. These include a master planned community near Toledo, resort communities in Mont-Tremblant, Canada, and the Tustin Legacy Town Center in California. MBH designed transit-oriented developments in Fullerton, Dublin, and Solano, California, and the downtown and neighborhood revitalizations for Yucca Valley, CA. Completed planning projects include Levis Commons and the Dunes on Monterey Bay.\n\nGiving back has been an integral part of MBH Architects’ culture since the firm opened its doors in 1989, when founding principals John McNulty and Dennis Heath committed to cultivating their relationship with On Lok Lifeways, a nonprofit that develops healthcare models for the elderly. Supporting a diverse array of causes, including arts education, sustainability, and ending HIV/AIDS, Alzheimer’s, heart disease and homelessness, has solidified MBH's tradition of enhancing communities with socially minded projects and volunteer work. MBH has worked with Bay Area non-profit The Good Tidings Foundation on a variety of projects including the Foundation's past and current headquarters and multiple LeRoy Neiman Art Studios.\n\nList of San Francisco Designated Landmarks\n\n"}
{"id": "54044178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54044178", "title": "Madonna of Veveri", "text": "Madonna of Veveri\n\nThe Veveri Madonna, also called the Madonna of Veveri (, ), is an tempera painting by the unknown moravian, bohemian (or probably italian) (active in Bohemian lands) artist generally called Master of Vyšší Brod. The altarpiece was commissioned after 1344 by Margrave John Henry of Luxembourg for the romanesque church of Assumption of Our Lady, In the neighborhood of royal Veveří castle in Brno, Moravia, Czech Republic. Exhibited in Diocesan Museum in Brno. \nThe panel was one of the first Madonnas painted by the artist. Albert Kutal a Czech scholar called it \"a truly rare and extraordinary work\".\n\nThe painting is in tempera on pine wood panel, canvas-covered with gently pastiglia stucco relief decoration and of additional gold metal slices, measures 79,5 cm by 62,5 cm. Madonna, Mary is seen half-figure with the Child in her lap, holding the Christ Child. The latter's left hand is touching his mother's, while under the right hand holds a bird – goldfinch, (because of the thistle seeds the goldfinch often eats, in Christian symbolism the goldfinch is associated with Christ's Passion and his crown of thorns). The Virgin Mary is coronated by double crown on uncovered loose hair, without a veil. Some Byzantine-Italian traces notwithstanding, the painting shows a further step in the assimilation of Italian influences, which are adapted in an individually and stylistically balanced manner.\n\nPigment analysis of Master of Vyšší Brod's masterpiece reveals the usual pigments of the high gothic period such as ferric oxide mixed with orpiment in the red drapery on top of the painting, natural ultramarine mixed with lead white in the blue robe of Madonna (inside).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31350012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31350012", "title": "Madonna with the Fish", "text": "Madonna with the Fish\n\nMadonna of the Fish, known also as Madonna with the Fish is a painting by the High Renaissance master Raphael. \n\nMary sits enthroned with the Jesus on her knee. On one side is St. Jerome kneeling by the Lion; he is holding a book. On the other side the archangel Raphael is presenting at the foot of the throne the young Tobias, whom he formerly guided to the River Tigris, and who bears the miraculous fish whose heart, liver and gall were to restore his father's sight, and drive the demons from his bride. Tobias with his fish was an early type of baptism. Raphael leading Tobias always expresses protection, and especially protection to the young. The picture is believed to have been painted around 1512-14 to commemorate the introduction of Book of Tobit to the canonical books of the Roman Catholic Church. St. Jerome translated the Book of Tobit into Latin, which explains his presence on the right of Mary.\n\nIt is currently held by the Museo del Prado, Madrid. \n"}
{"id": "1246600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1246600", "title": "Manfred", "text": "Manfred\n\nManfred: A dramatic poem is a closet drama written in 1816–1817 by Lord Byron. It contains supernatural elements, in keeping with the popularity of the ghost story in England at the time. It is a typical example of a Gothic fiction.\n\nByron commenced this work in late 1816, only a few months after the famous ghost-story sessions with Percy Bysshe Shelley and Mary Shelley that provided the initial impetus for \"Frankenstein\". The supernatural references are made clear throughout the poem.\n\n\"Manfred\" was adapted musically by Robert Schumann in 1852, in a composition entitled \"Manfred: Dramatic Poem with Music in Three Parts\", and later by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky in his \"Manfred Symphony\". Friedrich Nietzsche was inspired by the poem's depiction of a super-human being to compose a piano score in 1872 based on it, \"Manfred Meditation\".\n\nByron wrote this \"metaphysical drama\", as he called it, after his marriage to Annabella Millbanke failed because of a scandal due to charges of sexual improprieties and an incestuous affair between Byron and his half-sister, Augusta Leigh. Attacked by the press and ostracised by London society, Byron fled England for Switzerland in 1816 and never returned. At the time, he was living at the Villa Diodati in Switzerland.\n\nBecause \"Manfred\" was written immediately after this, and because it regards a main character tortured by his own sense of guilt for an unmentionable offence, some critics consider it to be autobiographical, or even confessional. The unnamed but forbidden nature of Manfred's relationship to Astarte is believed to represent Byron's relationship with his half-sister Augusta.\n\nMost of \"Manfred\" was written on a tour through the Bernese Alps in September 1816. The third act was rewritten in February 1817 since Byron was not happy with its first version.\n\nManfred is a Faustian noble living in the Bernese Alps. Internally tortured by some mysterious guilt, which has to do with the death of his most beloved, Astarte, he uses his mastery of language and spell-casting to summon seven spirits, from whom he seeks forgetfulness. The spirits, who rule the various components of the corporeal world, are unable to control past events and thus cannot grant Manfred's plea. For some time, fate prevents him from escaping his guilt through suicide.\n\nAt the end, Manfred dies, defying religious temptations of redemption from sin. Throughout the poem he succeeds in challenging all of the authoritative powers he faces, and chooses death over submitting to the powerful spirits. Manfred directs his final words to the Abbot, remarking, \"Old man! 'tis not so difficult to die\". \"The unconquerable individual to the end, Manfred gives his soul to neither heaven nor hell, only to death.\" \n\nPublished in June 1817, \"Manfred\" has as its epigraph the famous phrase of Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\": \"There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.\" It shows heavy influence from Goethe's \"Faust\", which Byron most likely read in translation (although he claimed to have never read it).\n\n\"Manfred\" has as its theme defiant humanism, represented by the hero’s refusal to bow to supernatural authority. Peter L. Thorslev, Jr. notes that Manfred conceals behind a Gothic exterior the tender heart of the Hero of Sensibility; but as a rebel, like Satan, Cain, and Prometheus, he embodies Romantic self-assertion.\n\n\"Manfred\" was not originally intended for stage performance; it was written to be a dramatic poem or, as Byron called it, a \"metaphysical\" drama.\nIt has received much more attention on stage for its musical treatments by Tchaikovsky and Schumann than it has on its own dramatic terms. \nNevertheless, \"Manfred\" was later famously played by Samuel Phelps. \n\nThere are no recorded full stagings in Britain in the twentieth century, but readings are more popular, partly because of the difficulty of staging a play set in the Alps, partly because of the work's nature as a closet drama that was never actually intended for the stage in the first place. The exceptional size of the role of Manfred also makes the play difficult to cast. There was a production on BBC Radio 3 in 1988, however, which starred Ronald Pickup as Manfred. A new production, adapted and directed by Pauline Harris with original music composed and performed by Olly Fox and starring Joseph Millson as Manfred, was broadcast on BBC Radio 3 on 8 January 2017 to celebrate the 200th anniversary of \"Manfred\"'s completion.\n\n\nThe character Manfred was mentioned by Alexandre Dumas, père in his novel \"The Count of Monte Cristo\", where the Count declares: \"No, no, I wish to do away with that mysterious reputation that you have given me, my dear viscount; it is tiresome to be always acting Manfred. I wish my life to be free and open.\"\nIndeed, the Count of Monte Cristo is quite similar to Manfred, in that he wants to keep his past a secret, feels superior to social conventions, and is following an agenda that runs counter to the social mores.\n\nFyodor Dostoyevsky mentions the poem in \"Notes from Underground\" when the narrator states, \"I received countless millions and immediately gave them away for the benefit of humanity, at the same moment confessing before the crowd all my infamies, which, of course, were not mere infamies, but also contained within them a wealth of 'the lofty and the beautiful' of something Manfred-like\" (Dostoyevsky, page 57. Bantam Books 2005)\n\nOn page 61 of \"The Crying of Lot 49\" by Thomas Pynchon, Di Presso seems to refer (perhaps by accident) to Metzger as Manfred.\n\nManfred's oft-quoted speech from Act II Scene 1 which begins \"Think'st thou existence doth depend on time?\" is quoted on page 351 of \"The Masters of Solitude\" by Marvin Kaye and Parke Godwin.\n\n'In Memory of My Feelings', the poem by Frank O'Hara, includes the line \"Manfred climbs to my nape,/ speaks, but I do not hear him,/ I'm too blue.\"\n\nIn Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell by Susanna Clarke, Byron is said to have written Manfred after meeting the magician Jonathan Strange and finding him most disagreeable. It is suggested that he wrote it because he was so disappointed with Strange that he created a magician more to his liking.\n\nIn the Gilbert and Sullivan comic opera \"Patience\" Manfred is referenced in Colonel Calverley's patter song \"If you want a receipt for that popular mystery\" (A Heavy Dragoon), listing one ingredient as \"a little of Manfred but not very much of him\".\n\nGerman gothic metal band The Vision Bleak extensively quote from \"Manfred\" in their song \"A Curse of the Grandest Kind\", on their 2010 album \"Set Sail to Mystery\"\n\nManfred Township in the southwestern corner of Lac qui Parle County in western Minnesota was named for the Byron poem. The county was established in 1871 and Manfred Township in 1879, showing the immense popularity of the poem at that time. Website: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manfred_Township,_Lac_qui_Parle_County,_Minnesota\n\n\n"}
{"id": "742889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=742889", "title": "Method &amp; Red", "text": "Method &amp; Red\n\nMethod & Red, sometimes written Meth and Red, is an American television sitcom that ran on Fox from June 16 to August 25, 2004. It starred hip hop recording artists Method Man & Redman, portraying fictionalized versions of themselves who move to a predominantly white upper-class suburb in New Jersey.\n\nFox cancelled the show with 4 of the 13 episodes remaining unaired after heated meetings with Method Man & Redman, who were not pleased with the show. The duo publicly criticized Fox several times after this.\n\nMethod Man was disappointed about the series for having a laugh track and Fox doing a bad job on editing. He had wanted it to be in the vein of \"Arrested Development,\" of which he is a fan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6454291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6454291", "title": "National Campaign for the Arts", "text": "National Campaign for the Arts\n\nThe National Campaign for the Arts (NCA) is a United Kingdom lobbying group campaigning for all the arts. Their website states \"We campaign for more public investment in the arts because we believe that the arts are for everyone and make everyone’s lives better.\"\n\nThe current Chair is the actor and director Samuel West. Other Board members include the visual artist Bob and Roberta Smith, the writer and broadcaster A. L. Kennedy and Artistic Director of the Holland Festival, Ruth Mackenzie CBE.\n\nThe NCA publish the \"Arts Index\", a bi-annual \"health check for the arts\". \"50p for Culture\" is a campaign which ranks Local Authorities by the amount of their investment in culture and encourages constituents to write to them in support or encouragement. \"Hearts for the Arts\" is an annual award that recognises excellence in Local Authority support for the arts.\n\nThe NCA came into being in 1985 through the merger of the National Lobby for the Arts (NLA) and British Arts Voice (BRAVO). It was established as a membership organization, receiving no government funding.\n\nThe NCA was initially funded by six organizations which represent professional artists: the Association of British Orchestras; British Actors' Equity Association; the Broadcasting, Entertainment, Cinematograph and Theatre Union (BECTU); the Musicians' Union; the Society of West End Theatres and the Theatrical Management Association.\n\nNCA is a charity and a company limited by guarantee, established to campaign with and on behalf of the public and the arts sector for more public funding and investment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158951", "title": "New Urbanism", "text": "New Urbanism\n\nNew Urbanism is an urban design movement which promotes environmentally friendly habits by creating walkable neighborhoods containing a wide range of housing and job types. It arose in the United States in the early 1980s, and has gradually influenced many aspects of real estate development, urban planning, and municipal land-use strategies.\n\nNew Urbanism is strongly influenced by urban design practices that were prominent until the rise of the automobile prior to World War II; it encompasses ten basic principles such as traditional neighborhood design (TND) and transit-oriented development (TOD). These ideas can all be circled back to two concepts: building a sense of community and the development of ecological practices.\n\nThe organizing body for New Urbanism is the Congress for the New Urbanism, founded in 1993. Its foundational text is the \"Charter of the New Urbanism\", which begins:\n\nNew Urbanists support: regional planning for open space; context-appropriate architecture and planning; adequate provision of infrastructure such as sporting facilities, libraries and community centres; and the balanced development of jobs and housing. They believe their strategies can reduce traffic congestion by encouraging the population to ride bikes, walk, or take the train. They also hope that this set up will increase the supply of affordable housing and rein in suburban sprawl. The \"Charter of the New Urbanism\" also covers issues such as historic preservation, safe streets, green building, and the re-development of brownfield land. The ten Principles of Intelligent Urbanism also phrase guidelines for new urbanist approaches.\n\nArchitecturally, new urbanist developments are often accompanied by New Classical, postmodern, or vernacular styles, although that is not always the case.\n\nUntil the mid 20th century, cities were generally organized into and developed around mixed-use walkable neighborhoods. For most of human history this meant a city that was entirely walkable, although with the development of mass transit the reach of the city extended outward along transit lines, allowing for the growth of new pedestrian communities such as streetcar suburbs. But with the advent of cheap automobiles and favorable government policies, attention began to shift away from cities and towards ways of growth more focused on the needs of the car. Specifically, after World War II urban planning largely centered around the use of municipal zoning ordinances to segregate residential from commercial and industrial development, and focused on the construction of low-density single-family detached houses as the preferred housing format for the growing middle class. The physical separation of where people live from where they work, shop and frequently spend their recreational time, together with low housing density, which often drastically reduced population density relative to historical norms, made automobiles indispensable for practical transportation and contributed to the emergence of a culture of automobile dependency.\n\nThis new system of development, with its rigorous separation of uses, arose after World War II and became known as \"conventional suburban development\" or pejoratively as urban sprawl. The majority of U.S. citizens now live in suburban communities built in the last fifty years, and automobile use per capita has soared.\n\nAlthough New Urbanism as an organized movement would only arise later, a number of activists and thinkers soon began to criticize the modernist planning techniques being put into practice. Social philosopher and historian Lewis Mumford criticized the \"anti-urban\" development of post-war America. \"The Death and Life of Great American Cities,\" written by Jane Jacobs in the early 1960s, called for planners to reconsider the single-use housing projects, large car-dependent thoroughfares, and segregated commercial centers that had become the \"norm\". The French architect François Spoerry has developed in the 60's the concept of \"soft architecture\" that he applied to Port Grimaud, a new marina in south of France. The success of this project had a considerable influence and led to many new projects of soft architecture like Port Liberté in New Jersey or Le Plessis Robisson in France.\n\nRooted in these early dissenters, the ideas behind New Urbanism began to solidify in the 1970s and 80s with the urban visions and theoretical models for the reconstruction of the \"European\" city proposed by architect Leon Krier, and the pattern language theories of Christopher Alexander. The term \"new urbanism\" itself started being used in this context in the mid-1980s, but it wasn't until the early 1990s that it was commonly written as a proper noun capitalized.\n\nIn 1991, the Local Government Commission, a private nonprofit group in Sacramento, California, invited architects Peter Calthorpe, Michael Corbett, Andrés Duany, Elizabeth Moule, Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, Stefanos Polyzoides, and Daniel Solomon to develop a set of community principles for land use planning. Named the \"Ahwahnee Principles\" (after Yosemite National Park's Ahwahnee Hotel), the commission presented the principles to about one hundred government officials in the fall of 1991, at its first Yosemite Conference for Local Elected Officials.\n\nCalthorpe, Duany, Moule, Plater-Zyberk, Polyzoides, and Solomon founded the Chicago-based Congress for the New Urbanism in 1993. The CNU has grown to more than three thousand members, and is the leading international organization promoting New Urbanist design principles. It holds annual Congresses in various U.S. cities.\n\nIn 2009, co-founders Elizabeth Moule, Hank Dittmar, and Stefanos Polyzoides authored the Canons of Sustainable Architecture and Urbanism to clarify and detail the relationship between New Urbanism and sustainability. The Canons are \"a set of operating principles for human settlement that reestablish the relationship between the art of building, the making of community, and the conservation of our natural world\". They promote the use of passive heating and cooling solutions, the use of locally obtained materials, and in general, a \"culture of permanence\". \n\nNew Urbanism is a broad movement that spans a number of different disciplines and geographic scales. And while the conventional approach to growth remains dominant, New Urbanist principles have become increasingly influential in the fields of planning, architecture, and public policy.\n\nAndrés Duany and Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, two of the founders of the Congress for the New Urbanism, observed mixed-use streetscapes with corner shops, front porches, and a diversity of well-crafted housing while living in one of the Victorian neighborhoods of New Haven, Connecticut. They and their colleagues observed patterns including the following:\n\n\nSeveral terms are viewed either as synonymous, included in, or overlapping with the New Urbanism. The terms Neotraditional Development or Traditional Neighborhood Development are often associated with the New Urbanism. These terms generally refer to complete New Towns or new neighborhoods, often built in traditional architectural styles, as opposed to smaller infill and redevelopment projects. The term Traditional Urbanism has also been used to describe the New Urbanism by those who object to the \"new\" moniker. The term \"Walkable Urbanism\" was proposed as an alternative term by developer and professor Christopher Leinberger. Many debate whether Smart Growth and the New Urbanism are the same or whether substantive differences exist between the two; overlap exists in membership and content between the two movements. Placemaking is another term that is often used to signify New Urbanist efforts or those of like-minded groups. The term Transit-Oriented Development is sometimes cited as being coined by prominent New Urbanist Peter Calthorpe and is heavily promoted by New Urbanists. The term Sustainable development is sometimes associated with the New Urbanism as there has been an increasing focus on the environmental benefits of New Urbanism associated with the rise of the term sustainability in the 2000s, however, this has caused some confusion as the term is also used by the United Nations and Agenda 21 to include human development issues (e.g., developing country) that exceed the scope of land development intended to be addressed by the New Urbanism or Sustainable Urbanism. The term \"livability\" or \"livable communities\" was popular under the Obama administration, though it dates back at least to the mid-1990s when the term was used by the Local Government Commission.\n\nPlanning magazine discussed the proliferation of \"urbanisms\" in an article in 2011 titled \"A Short Guide to 60 of the Newest Urbanisms\". Several New Urbanists have popularized terminology under the umbrella of the New Urbanism including Sustainable Urbanism and Tactical Urbanism (of which Guerrilla Urbanism can be viewed as a subset). The term Tactical Urbanism was coined by Frenchman Michel de Certau in 1968 and revived in 2011 by New Urbanist Mike Lydon and the co-authors of the Tactical Urbanism Guide. In 2011 Andres Duany authored a book that used the term Agrarian Urbanism to describe an agriculturally-focused subset of New Urbanist town design. In 2013 a group of New Urbanists led by CNU co-founder Andres Duany began a research project under the banner of Lean Urbanism which purported to provide a bridge between Tactical Urbanism and the New Urbanism.\n\nOther terms have surfaced in reaction to the New Urbanism intended to provide a contrast, alternative to, or a refinement of the New Urbanism. Some of these terms include Everyday Urbanism by Harvard Professor Margaret Crawford, John Chase, and John Kaliski, Ecological Urbanism, and True Urbanism by architect Bernard Zyscovich. Landscape urbanism was popularized by Charles Waldheim who explicitly defined it as in opposition to the New Urbanism in his lectures at Harvard University. \"Landscape Urbanism and its Discontents\", edited by Andres Duany and Emily Talen, specifically addressed the tension between these two views of urbanism. Michael E. Arth promotes what he describes as a variant of the New Urbanism called the New Pedestrianism, which is intended to be more pedestrian-oriented and traces its origins to a 1929 planned community in Radburn, New Jersey.\n\nThe primary organization promoting the New Urbanism in the United States is the Congress for the New Urbanism (CNU). The Congress for the New Urbanism is the leading organization promoting walkable, mixed-use neighborhood development, sustainable communities and healthier living conditions. CNU members promote the principles of CNU's Charter and the hallmarks of New Urbanism, including:\n\n\nThe CNU has met annually since 1993 when they held their first general meeting in Alexandria, Virginia, with approximately one hundred attendees. By 2008 the Congress was drawing two to three thousand attendees to the annual meetings.\n\nThe CNU began forming local and regional chapters circa 2004 with the founding of the New England and Florida Chapters. By 2011 there were 16 official chapters and interest groups for 7 more. , Canada hosts two full CNU Chapters, one in Ontario (CNU Ontario), and one in British Columbia (Cascadia) which also includes a portion of the north-west US states.\n\nWhile the CNU has international participation in Canada, sister organizations have been formed in other areas of the world including the Council for European Urbanism (CEU), the Movement for Israeli Urbanism (MIU) and the Australian Council for the New Urbanism.\n\nBy 2002 chapters of Students for the New Urbanism began appearing at universities including the Savannah College of Art and Design, University of Georgia, University of Notre Dame, and the University of Miami. In 2003, a group of younger professionals and students met at the 11th Congress in Washington, D.C. and began developing a \"Manifesto of the Next Generation of New Urbanists\". The Next Generation of New Urbanists held their first major session the following year at the 12th meeting of the CNU in Chicago in 2004. The group has continued meeting annually with a focus on young professionals, students, new member issues, and ensuring the flow of fresh ideas and diverse viewpoints within the New Urbanism and the CNU. Spinoff projects of the Next Generation of the New Urbanists include the Living Urbanism publication first published in 2008 and the first Tactical Urbanism Guide.\n\nThe CNU has spawned publications and research groups. Publications include the \"New Urban News\" and the \"New Town Paper\". Research groups have formed independent nonprofits to research individual topics such as the Form-Based Codes Institute, The National Charrette Institute and the Center for Applied Transect Studies.\n\nIn the United Kingdom New Urbanist and European urbanism principles are practised and taught by The Prince's Foundation for the Built Environment. Other organisations promote New Urbanism as part of their remit, such as INTBAU, A Vision of Europe, and others.\n\nThe CNU and other national organizations have also formed partnerships with like-minded groups. Organizations under the banner of Smart Growth also often work with the Congress for the New Urbanism. In addition the CNU has formed partnerships on specific projects such as working with the United States Green Building Council and the Natural Resources Defense Council to develop the LEED for Neighborhood Development standards, and with the Institute of Transportation Engineers to develop a Context Sensitive Solutions (CSS) Design manual.\n\nThe New Urbanism Film Festival was held in 2013 and 2014 in Los Angeles to highlight films and short films about the New Urbanism and related topics. The 2011 film \"Urbanized\" by Gary Hustwit featured then CNU Board Chair Ellen Dunham-Jones and other urban thinkers on the international story of urbanization including the New Urbanist efforts in the United States.\n\nThe 2004 documentary \"The End of Suburbia: Oil Depletion and the Collapse of the American Dream\" argues that the depletion of oil will result in the demise of the sprawl-type development. \"\", a feature length 2008 documentary about urban designer Michael E. Arth, explains the principles of his New Pedestrianism, a more ecological and pedestrian-oriented version of New Urbanism. The film also gives a brief history of New Urbanism, and chronicles the rebuilding of an inner city slum into a model of New Pedestrianism and New Urbanism called The Garden District.\n\nNew Urbanism has drawn both praise and criticism from all parts of the political spectrum. It has been criticized both for being a social engineering scheme and for failing to address social equity and for both restricting private enterprise and for being a deregulatory force in support of private sector developers.\n\nJournalist Alex Marshall has decried New Urbanism as essentially a marketing scheme that repackages conventional suburban sprawl behind a façade of nostalgic imagery and empty, aspirational slogans. In a 1996 article in Metropolis Magazine, Marshall denounced New Urbanism as \"a grand fraud\". The attack continued in numerous articles, including an opinion column in the \"Washington Post\" in September of the same year, and in Marshall's first book, \"How Cities Work: Suburbs, Sprawl, and the Roads Not Taken\"\n\nCritics have asserted that the effectiveness claimed for the New Urbanist solution of mixed income developments lacks statistical evidence. Independent studies have supported the idea of addressing poverty through mixed-income developments, but the argument that New Urbanism produces such diversity has been challenged from findings from one community in Canada.\n\nSome parties have criticized the New Urbanism for being too accommodating of motor vehicles and not going far enough to promote walking, cycling, and public transport. The Charter of the New Urbanism states that \"communities should be designed for the pedestrian and transit as well as the car\". Some critics suggest that communities should exclude the car altogether in favor of car-free developments. Michael E Arth proposes new pedestrianism as a way to further elevate the status of pedestrians by focusing on pedestrian-only paths. Steve Melia proposes the idea of \"filtered permeability\" (see Permeability (spatial and transport planning)) which increases the connectivity of the pedestrian and cycling network resulting in a time and convenience advantage over drivers while still limiting the connectivity of the vehicular network and thus maintaining the safety benefits of cul de sacs and horseshoe loops in resistance to property crime.\n\nIn response to critiques of a lack of evidence for the New Urbanism's claimed environmental benefits, a rating system for neighborhood environmental design, LEED-ND, was developed by the U.S. Green Building Council, Natural Resources Defense Council, and the Congress for the New Urbanism, to quantify the sustainability of New Urbanist neighborhood design. New Urbanist and board member of CNU, Doug Farr has taken a step further and coined Sustainable Urbanism, which combines New Urbanism and LEED-ND to create walkable, transit-served urbanism with high performance buildings and infrastructure.\n\nNew Urbanism has been criticized for being a form of centrally planned, large-scale development, \"instead of allowing the initiative for construction to be taken by the final users themselves\". It has been criticized for asserting universal principles of design instead of attending to local conditions.\n\nNew Urbanism is having a growing influence on how and where metropolitan regions choose to grow. At least fourteen large-scale planning initiatives are based on the principles of linking transportation and land-use policies, and using the neighborhood as the fundamental building block of a region. Miami, Florida, has adopted the most ambitious New Urbanist-based zoning code reform yet undertaken by a major U.S. city.\n\nMore than six hundred new towns, villages, and neighborhoods, following New Urbanist principles, have been planned or are currently under construction in the U.S. Hundreds of new, small-scale, urban and suburban infill projects are under way to reestablish walkable streets and blocks. In Maryland and several other states, New Urbanist principles are an integral part of \"smart growth\" legislation.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) adopted the principles of the New Urbanism in its multibillion-dollar program to rebuild public housing projects nationwide. New Urbanists have planned and developed hundreds of projects in infill locations. Most were driven by the private sector, but many, including HUD projects, used public money.\n\nIn 2010 University Place in Memphis became the second only U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) LEED certified neighborhood. LEED ND (neighborhood development) standards integrates principles of smart growth, urbanism and green building and were developed through a collaboration between USGBC, Congress for the New Urbanism, and the Natural Resources Defense Council. University Place, developed by McCormack Baron Salazar, is a 405-unit, 30-acre, mixed-income, mixed use, multigenerational, HOPE VI grant community that revitalized the severely distressed Lamar Terrace public housing site.\n\nThe Cotton District in Starkville, Mississippi, was the first New Urbanist development, begun in 1968 long before the New Urbanism movement was organized. The District borders Mississippi State University, and consists mostly of residential rental units for college students along with restaurants, bars and retail. The Cotton District got its name because it is built in the vicinity of an old cotton mill.\n\nSeaside, Florida, the first fully New Urbanist town, began development in 1981 on eighty acres (324,000 m²) of Florida Panhandle coastline. It was featured on the cover of the Atlantic Monthly in 1988, when only a few streets were completed, and has become internationally famous for its architecture, and the quality of its streets and public spaces.\n\nSeaside is now a tourist destination and appeared in the 1998 movie \"The Truman Show\". Lots sold for $15,000 in the early 1980s, and slightly over a decade later, the price had escalated to about $200,000. Today, most lots sell for more than a million dollars, and some houses top $5 million.\n\nThe Mueller Community is located on the 700 acre site of the former Robert Mueller Municipal Airport in Austin, Texas, which closed in 1999. Per the developer, the value of the Mueller development upon completion will be $1.3 billion, and will comprise 4.2 million square feet of non-residential development, 650,000 square feet of retail space, 4,600 homes, and 140 acres of open space. An estimated 10,000 permanent jobs within the development will have been created by the time it is complete. The Mueller Community also has more electric cars per capita than any other neighborhood in the United States – a fact partially attributable to an incentive program.\n\nThe site of the former Stapleton International Airport in Denver and Aurora, Colorado, closed in 1995, is now being redeveloped by Forest City Enterprises. Stapleton is expected to be home to at least 30,000 residents, six schools and 2 million square feet (180,000 m²) of retail. Construction began in 2001. Northfield Stapleton, one of the development's major retail centers, recently opened.\n\nIn 1997 San Antonio, Texas, as part of a new master plan, created new regulations called the Unified Development Code (UDC), largely influenced by New Urbanism. One feature of the UDC is six unique land development patterns that can be applied to certain districts: Conservation Development, Commercial Center Development, Office or Institutional Campus Development, Commercial Retrofit Development, Tradition Neighborhood Development, Transit Oriented Development. Each district has specific standards and design regulation. The six development patterns were created to reflect existing development patterns.\n\nMountain House, one of the latest New Urbanist projects in the United States, is a new town located near Tracy, California. Construction started in 2001. Mountain House will consist of 12 villages, each with its own elementary school, park, and commercial area. In addition, a future train station, transit center and bus system are planned for Mountain House.\n\nMesa del Sol, New Mexico—the largest New Urbanist project in the United States—was designed by architect Peter Calthorpe, and is being developed by Forest City Enterprises. Mesa del Sol may take five decades to reach full build-out, at which time it should have 38,000 residential units, housing a population of 100,000; a industrial office park; four town centers; an urban center; and a downtown that would provide a twin city within Albuquerque.\n\nLocated in Mount Pleasant, South Carolina, I'On is a traditional neighborhood development, mixed with a new urbanism styled architecture, reflecting on the building designs of the nearby downtown areas of Charleston, South Carolina. Founded on April 30, 1995, I'On was designed by the town planning firms of Dover, Kohl & Partners and Duany Plater-Zyberk & Company, and currently holds over 750 single family homes. Features of the community include extensive sidewalks, shared public greens and parks, trails and a grid of narrow, traffic calming streets. Most homes are required to have a front porch of not less than eight feet (2.46 m) in depth. Floor heights of 10 feet (3.1 m), raised foundations and smaller lot sizes give the community a dense, vertical feel.\n\nHaile Plantation, Florida, is a 2,600 household () development of regional impact southwest of the city of Gainesville, within Alachua County. Haile Village Center is a traditional neighborhood center within the development. It was originally started in 1978 and completed in 2007. In addition to the 2,600 homes the neighborhood consists of two merchant centers (one a New England narrow street village and the other a chain grocery strip mall). There are also two public elementary schools and an 18-hole golf course.\n\nIn June 1996, the Walt Disney Company unveiled its 5,000 acre (20 km²) town of Celebration, near Orlando, Florida. Celebration opened its downtown in October 1996, relying heavily on the experiences of Seaside, whose downtown was nearly complete. Disney shuns the label New Urbanism, calling Celebration simply a \"town\".\n\nCelebration's Downtown has become one of the area's most popular tourist destinations making the community a showcase for New Urbanism as a prime example of the creation of a \"sense of place\".\n\nThe construction of the Hudson Bergen Light Rail in Hudson County, New Jersey has spurred transit-oriented development. In Jersey City, two projects are planned to transform brownfield sites, both of which have required remediation of toxic waste by previous owners. Bayfront, once site of a Honeywell plant is a site on the Hackensack River, and is nearby the planned West Campus of New Jersey City University. Canal Crossing, named for the former Morris Canal, was once partially owned by PPG Industries, and is a site west of Liberty State Park.\n\nThe sparsely developed agricultural Township of Chesterfield in New Jersey covers approximately and has made farmland preservation a priority since the 1970s. Chesterfield has permanently preserved more than of farmland through state and county programs and a township-wide transfer of development credits program that directs future growth to a designated \"receiving area\" known as Old York Village. Old York Village is a neo-traditional, new urbanism town on incorporating a variety of housing types, neighborhood commercial facilities, a new elementary school, civic uses, and active and passive open space areas with preserved agricultural land surrounding the planned village. Construction began in the early 2000s and a significant percentage of the community is now complete. Old York Village was the winner of the American Planning Association National Outstanding Planning Award in 2004.\n\nCivita is a sustainable, transit-oriented 230-acre master-planned village under development in the Mission Valley area of San Diego, California, United States. Located on a former quarry site, the urban-style village is organized around a 19-acre community park that cascades down the terraced property. Civita development plans call for 60 to 70 acres of parks and open space, 4,780 residences (including approximately 478 affordable units), an approximately 480,000-square-foot retail center, and 420,000 square feet for an office/business campus.\n\nSudberry Properties, the developer of Civita, incorporated numerous green building practices in the Civita design. In 2009, Civita achieved a Stage 1 Gold rating for the U.S. Green Building Council’s 2009 LEED-ND (Neighborhood Development) pilot and received the California Governor’s Environmental and Economic Leadership Award. In 2010, Civita was designated as a California Catalyst Community by the California Department of Housing and Community Development to support innovation and test sustainable strategies that reflect the interdependence of environmental, economic, and community health.\n\nDel Mar (Los Angeles Metro station), which won a Congress for the New Urbanism Charter Award in 2003, is a transit-oriented development surrounding a prominent Metro Rail stop on the Gold Line, which connects Los Angeles and Pasadena. Located at the southern edge of downtown Pasadena, it serves as a gateway to the city with 347 apartments, out of which 15% are affordable units. Approximately 20,000 square feet of retail is linked with a network of public plazas, paseos and private courtyards. The 3.4-acre, $77 million project sits above a 1,200-car multi-level subterranean parking garage, with 600 spaces dedicated to transit. The light rail right of way, detailed as a public street, bisects the site. It was designed by Moule & Polyzoides.\n\nNorfolk, VA, East Beach. designed and built in the style of traditional Atlantic coastal villages. The Master Plan for East Beach was developed in the style of “New Urbanism” by world renowned TND master planners Duany Plater-Zyberk. Newly constructed homes reflect traditional classic detail and proportion of Tidewater Virginia homes, and are built with materials that will withstand the test of time and forces of Mother Nature and the Chesapeake Bay.\n\nNew Urbanism is closely related to the Urban village movement in Europe. They both occurred at similar times and share many of the same principles although urban villages has an emphasis on traditional city planning. In Europe many brown-field sites have been redeveloped since the 1980s following the models of the traditional city neighbourhoods rather than Modernist models. One well-publicized example is Poundbury in England, a suburban extension to the town of Dorchester, which was built on land owned by the Duchy of Cornwall under the overview of Prince Charles. The original masterplan was designed by Leon Krier. A report carried out after the first phase of construction found a high degree of satisfaction by residents, although the aspirations to reduce car dependency had not been successful. Rising house prices and a perceived premium have made the open market housing unaffordable for many local people.\n\nThe Council for European Urbanism (CEU), formed in 2003, shares many of the same aims as the U.S.'s New Urbanists. CEU's Charter is a development of the Congress for the New Urbanism Charter revised and reorganised to relate better to European conditions. An Australian organisation, Australian Council for New Urbanism has since 2001 run conferences and events to promote New Urbanism in that country. A New Zealand Urban Design Protocol was created by the Ministry for the Environment in 2005.\n\nThere are many developments around the world that follow New Urbanist principles to a greater or lesser extent:\n\n\n\n\nThere are several such developments in South Africa. The most notable is Melrose Arch in Johannesburg. Triple Point is a comparable mixed-use development in East London, in Eastern Cape province. The development, announced in 2007, comprises 30 hectares. It is made up of three apartment complexes together with over 30 residential sites as well as 20,000 sq m of residential and office space. The development is valued at over R2 billion ($250 million). There have been cases where market forces of urban decay are confused with new urbanism in African cities. This has led to a form of suburban mixed-use development that does not promote walkability. \n\nMost new developments on the edges of Australia's major cities are master planned, often guided expressly by the principles of New Urbanism. The relationship between housing, activity centres, the transport network and key social infrastructure (sporting facilities, libraries, community centres etc.) is defined at structure planning stage.\n\nAnother important factor or principle of New Urbanism that guides Australia's major cities is how good their foot circulation seems to be which is guided by the wayfinding systems that are implemented. Kenneth B. Hall, Jr. and Gerald A. Porterfield said in their book, \"Community by Design,\" the way to gain good circulation is to take some thoughtful consideration to things like wayfinding, sight lines, transition, visual clues, and reference points. Circulation design should work to create an interesting and informative system that utilizes subtle elements as well as technical ones. City of Port Philip, Australia, is a good example of wayfinding where they have come up with a comprehensive pedestrian signage system, specifically for their local areas of St Kilda, South Melbourne and Port Melbourne. The city's wayfinding system consists of 26 individually designed panels that are placed on some major streets such as St Kilda and St Kilda East, linking St Kilda Junction and Balaclava Station to the foreshore via Fitzroy, Carlisle and Acland Streets. City of Port Philip also created directional signage systems that makes use of the already existing street furniture such as trash cans to help provide for 130 directional indicators across Port Melbourne.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45497121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45497121", "title": "Paternity Leave (film)", "text": "Paternity Leave (film)\n\nPaternity Leave is a 2015 romantic comedy film directed by Matt Riddlehoover and starring Jacob York, Charlie David, and Chris Salvatore. Principal photography of the film began on September 1, 2014 in Nashville, Tennessee. It made its world premiere at the Nashville Film Festival on April 19, 2015.\n\nA man finds out that he's pregnant with his partner's baby. Dumbstruck by the news, their relationship takes twists and turns through hardship and hilarity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2978525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978525", "title": "Pinacotheca", "text": "Pinacotheca\n\nA pinacotheca ( borrowed from , πίναξ \"(painted) board, tablet\" + θήκη \"box, chest\") was a picture gallery in either ancient Greece or ancient Rome. The name is specifically used for the building containing pictures which formed the left wing of the Propylaea on the Acropolis at Athens, Greece. The Pinacotheca was located right by the temple of Athena Nike. Though Pausanias (Bk. I., xxii. 6) speaks of the pictures \"which time had not effaced,\" which seems to point to fresco painting, the fact that there is no trace of preparation for stucco on the walls shows that the paintings were easel pictures (J. G. Frazer, \"Pausanias's Description of Greece\", 1898, ii. 252). The Romans adopted the term for the room in a private house containing pictures, statues, and other works of art.\n\nIn the modern world the word is often used as a name for a public art gallery concentrating on paintings, mostly in Italy (as \"Pinacoteca\"), such as the Pinacoteca Vaticana of the Vatican Museums (which is usually meant when the plain word is used), the Pinacoteca di Brera in Milan (more often \"the Brera\" informally), with others in Bologna, Siena, and Turin. In Brazil, there is the Pinacoteca do Estado de São Paulo. In Paris, the Pinacothèque de Paris. In Munich the three main galleries are called the Alte Pinakothek (old masters), Neue Pinakothek (19th century) and Pinakothek der Moderne. At Hallbergmoos, near Munich Airport, there was the Pinakothek Hallbergmoos (20th and 21st century) between 2010 and 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "9855112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9855112", "title": "References to Ophelia", "text": "References to Ophelia\n\nOphelia is often referred to in literature and the arts, often in connection to suicide, love, and/or mental instability.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nArtist, producer, and singer-songwriter Debra Gail White performs by the stage name of Ophelia.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56036473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56036473", "title": "Royal Persian Paintings: The Qajar Epoch 1783-1925", "text": "Royal Persian Paintings: The Qajar Epoch 1783-1925\n\nRoyal Persian Paintings: The Qajar Epoch 1783-1925 was the first major exhibition of Persian art in Qajar era which took place from October 1998 to June 1999 at Brooklyn Museum in New York. The curator of the exhibition was Layla S. Diba, Hagop Kevorkian Curator of Islamic Art at the Brooklyn Museum, a scholar of Persian art in the 18th and 19th century, assisted by Maryam Ekhtiar, Research Associate at Brooklyn Museum.\n\nThe exhibition later took place at UCLA/Hammer Museum in Los Angeles from Feb 24 - May 9, 1999, and SOAS in London from July 6 - Sep 30, 1999.\n\nThe catalogue of the exhibition including more than 200 images of the paintings and scholarly articles, edited by Layla S. Diba and Maryam Ekhtiar, was published later by I. B. Tauris in London.\n\n\"New York Times\"' Holland Cotter wrote about the exhibition: \"An assertive, self-promotional dynastic art of almost hallucinatory strangeness and brilliance.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1543851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1543851", "title": "Sacred dance", "text": "Sacred dance\n\nSacred dance is the use of dance in religious ceremonies and rituals, present in most religions throughout history and prehistory. Its connection with the body and fertility has caused it to be forbidden by some religions; for example, its acceptability in Christianity has varied widely. Dance has formed a major element of worship in Hindu temples with strictly formalized styles such as bharatanatyam, requiring skilled dancers and temple musicians. In the 20th century, sacred dance has been revived by choreographers such as Bernhard Wosien as a means of developing community spirit.\n\nW. O. E. Oesterley proposed in 1923 that sacred dance had several purposes, the most important being to honour the supernatural powers; the other purposes were to \"show off\" before the powers; to unite the dancer with the supernatural power (such as with the Greek goddesses Demeter and Persephone); making the body suitable as a temporary dwelling-place for the deity, by dancing to unconsciousness in ecstatic dance; making crops grow, or helping or encouraging the deity to make them grow (as with \"Ariadne's Dance\"); consecrating a victim for sacrifice (as with the Israelites circling the altar, or the Sarawak Kayans circling a sacrificial pig); paying homage to the deity present for an initiation ceremony; helping warriors to victory in battle, and appeasing the spirits of the enemy killed in battle; averting the dangers associated with marriage, at a wedding ceremony; and at a funeral or mourning ceremony, purposes such as driving away the malevolent ghost of the dead person, or preventing the ghost from leaving the grave, or frightening off any evil spirits attracted by the corpse, or temporarily and invisibly bringing the dead person back to join in the dance, or simply honouring the dead person.\n\nHarriet Lihs in 2009 divided religious dance into dances of imitation, such as of animals thought to be spirit messengers, or of battles; \"medicine dances\", i.e. dances of healing, like the serpent dances in India used to prevent disease; commemorative dances, for events such as the winter solstice; and dances for spiritual connection, as in the whirling dance of the Whirling Dervishes withn Sufism. \n\nLaura Shannon in 2018 stated the purposes of contemporary sacred dance as practised at the Findhorn Foundation as \"to be inclusive, mutually supportive, to connect with the earth, spirit and each other, and to become more whole.\" It was a means of channelling \"healing energy\" both for the dancers and for their families and communities, indeed for the whole world.\n\nWithin religion, ecstatic dance is one of the ways in which religious ecstasy is produced.\n\nIndigenous ceremonial dance rituals around the world appear to preserve forms that were widespread in ancient times. For example, processionals and circle dances seen in indigenous dance today were used in ancient Egypt and among the Hebrews. In ancient Egypt, dancers impersonated a deity such as the goddess Hathor, taking on the deity's attributes and interpreting the divine world for those watching. \n\nIn ancient Israel, King David danced \"before the Lord\". It is mentioned as something familiar, implying it was a common practice. Sacred dance is described in the Bible by verbs meaning dancing, rotating, jumping, skipping, and whirling. The dance was accompanied by hand-drums (tambourines), cymbals, flutes, pipes, lyres, harps, and lutes.\n\nThe Hittites are shown in a sacred processional dance in a c. 1200 BC rock inscription at the sanctuary of Yazılıkaya, near their city of Hattusa, in Cappadocia. A group of men wearing conical hats and tip-tilted shoes, and a group of women, dance in a running step towards a group of named gods and goddesses. \n\nIn ancient Greece, sacred dance was widespread; indeed, it formed a part of almost all worship, and the gods Apollo, Ares, Dionysus and Pan are all described as dancers, while other deities such as Artemis were described as dancing with their companions. \n\nThe Hawaiian Hula dances to Pele, the volcano goddess, survive, whereas European maypole dances have lost their meaning as tree-worship and survive only as folk tradition. \n\nLewis Farnell observed that sacred dance has an \"extraordinary uniformity\" among indigenous peoples all over the world, something that he found so striking that it suggested either \"belief in an ultimately identical tradition, or, perhaps more reasonably, the psychologic theory that ... [humans] at the same stage of development respond with the same ... religious act to the same stimuli\" from the environment. Oesterley suggested that these stimuli to sacred dance were people's response to supernatural power, and \"the obtaining of food.\" \n\nSome Christian traditions make use of liturgical or worship dance, but it has long been controversial within the church. It has been supported, sometimes fervently, by both priests and Christian scholars; and opposed, sometimes stridently, by others who for example wrote some 157 tracts against dance between 1685 and 1963. The early church was largely in favour of dance, as in the 2nd Century \"Acts of John\" which states that \"Grace danceth. I would pipe: dance ye all. The whole world on high hath part in our dancing.\" Circle dance is used, in its more meditative form, in worship within religious traditions including the Church of England.\n\nIn northern Greece and southern Bulgaria, in the annual celebrations for Saint Constantine and Saint Helen, dancers perform the Anastenaria, a fire-walking ritual, as the climax of three days of processions, music, dancing, and animal sacrifice.\n\nIndian classical dances such as Bharatanatyam, Kathak, Odissi, and Mohiniattam can be traced to the Sanskrit text \"Natya Shastra\". They are a traditional drama-dance expression of religion, related to Vaishnavism, Shaivism, Shaktism, pan-Hindu Epics and the Vedic literature. As a religious art, they are either performed inside the sanctum of a Hindu temple, or near it.\n\nDance is unusual within Islam, but circle dance is used in the Islamic Haḍra dances. In the tradition of the Mevlevi Order founded by Rumi, ecstatic Sufi whirling is practised by devotees as a form of active meditation within the Sama (worship ceremony). In 2007, Sufi practices including ecstatic dance and the reciting of religious poetry were a focus for political resistance in Iran, reportedly \"demoniz[ed]\" by Shi'a clerics.\n\nThe syncretic Afro-American religious tradition Candomblé, practiced mainly in Brazil, makes use of music and ecstatic dance in which worshippers become possessed by their own tutelary deities, Orishas.\n\nChoreographers starting with Isadora Duncan, Ruth St. Denis and her husband Ted Shawn, and Martha Graham developed contemporary dance early in the 20th century, often using elements of sacred dance and fusing them with other genres. Later choreographers also made use of themes from the bible.\n\nThe mystic and spiritual teacher George Gurdjieff collected or authored a series of sacred dances, known as Gurdjieff movements, and taught them to his students as part of what he considered the work of \"self observation\" and \"self study\".\n\nThe Dances of Universal Peace, created by North American Sufis, use dancing, Sufi whirling, and singing of sacred phrases from different religions to raise consciousness and promote peace between diverse religions.\n\nFrom 1976, the ballet master and choreographer introduced circle dance at the Findhorn Foundation in Scotland. He used both traditional dances and his own choreography to develop \"group awareness\". Wosien's approach was taken up by Anna Barton, both at Findhorn and across Europe in the 1980s, and this style of sacred dance spread around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "627987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627987", "title": "Semperoper", "text": "Semperoper\n\nThe Semperoper is the opera house of the Sächsische Staatsoper Dresden (Saxon State Opera) and the concert hall of the Staatskapelle Dresden (Saxon State Orchestra). It is also home to the Semperoper Ballett. The building is located near the Elbe River in the historic centre of Dresden, Germany.\n\nThe opera house was originally built by the architect Gottfried Semper in 1841. After a devastating fire in 1869, the opera house was rebuilt, partly again by Semper, and completed in 1878. The opera house has a long history of premieres, including major works by Richard Wagner and Richard Strauss.\n\nThe first opera house at the location of today's Semperoper was built by the architect Gottfried Semper. It opened on 13 April 1841 with an opera by Carl Maria von Weber. The building style itself is debated among many, as it has features that appear in three styles: early Renaissance and Baroque, with Corinthian style pillars typical of Greek classical revival. Perhaps the most suitable label for this style would be eclecticism, where influences from many styles are used, a practice most common during this period. Nevertheless, the opera building, Semper's first, was regarded as one of the most beautiful European opera houses.\n\nFollowing a devastating fire in 1869, the citizens of Dresden immediately set about rebuilding their opera house. They demanded that Gottfried Semper do the reconstruction, even though he was then in exile because of his involvement in the May 1849 uprising in Dresden. The architect had his son, Manfred Semper, build the second opera house using his plans. Completed in 1878, it was built in Neo-Renaissance style. During the construction period, performances were held at the \"Gewerbehaussaal\", which opened in 1870.\n\nThe building is considered to be a prime example of \"Dresden Baroque\" architecture. It is situated on the Theatre Square in central Dresden on the bank of the Elbe River. On top of the portal there is a Panther quadriga with a statue of Dionysos. The interior was created by architects of the time, such as Johannes Schilling. Monuments on the portal depict artists, such as Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Friedrich Schiller, William Shakespeare, Sophocles, Molière and Euripides. The building also features work by Ernst Rietschel and Ernst Julius Hähnel. In the pre-war years, the Semperoper premiered many of the works of Richard Strauss.\n\nIn 1945, during the last months of World War II, the building was largely destroyed again, this time by the bombing of Dresden and subsequent firestorm, leaving only the exterior shell standing. Exactly 40 years later, on 13 February 1985, the opera's reconstruction was completed. It was rebuilt to be almost identical to its appearance before the war, but with the benefit of new stage machinery and an accompanying modern rear service building . The Semperoper reopened with the opera that was performed just before the building's destruction in 1945, Carl Maria von Weber's \"Der Freischütz\". When the Elbe flooded in 2002, the building suffered heavy water damage. With substantial help from around the world, it reopened in December of that year.\n\nToday, the orchestra for most operas is the Sächsische Staatskapelle Dresden. The Generalmusikdirektor (GMD) of the Semperoper is normally a different person from that of the Staatskapelle when it presents concerts. Exceptions have been Karl Böhm, Hans Vonk, and Fabio Luisi who have held both positions. Whilst the Semperoper does not have a GMD as of 2015, the current chief conductor of the Staatskapelle Dresden is Christian Thielemann, as of the 2012/13 season. The current \"Intendant\" (General Manager) of the company is Wolfgang Rothe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57246963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57246963", "title": "Stilt tower", "text": "Stilt tower\n\nThe Stilt tower, in Danish \"styltetårn\", is a special type of Medieval church tower, concentrated in Djursland peninsula and neighbouring regions of Danish Jutland.\n\nIn this type, only the upper storey with the bells has four walls. The lower parts of such a tower are formed by one or three high arches. With one arch, the lower part of the tower, which is connected to the western gable of the nave, is only open to the west. With three arches, the lower part is a high open hall.\n\nVery few \"stilt towers\" were built after Gothic age, if 20th century constructions with a box for the bells on high pilars are kept out of regard. And very few stilt towers were built in the Middle Ages in distant regions, where the term is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "315952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315952", "title": "Technology transfer", "text": "Technology transfer\n\nTechnology transfer, also called transfer of technology (TOT), is the process of transferring (disseminating) technology from the places and ingroups of its origination to wider distribution among more people and places. It occurs along various axes: among universities, from universities to businesses, from large businesses to smaller ones, from governments to businesses, across borders, both formally and informally, and both openly and surreptitiously. Often it occurs by concerted effort to share skills, knowledge, technologies, methods of manufacturing, samples of manufacturing, and facilities among governments or universities and other institutions to ensure that scientific and technological developments are accessible to a wider range of users who can then further develop and exploit the technology into new products, processes, applications, materials, or services. It is closely related to (and may arguably be considered a subset of) knowledge transfer. Horizontal transfer is the movement of technologies from one area to another. At present transfer of technology (TOT) is primarily horizontal. Vertical transfer occurs when technologies are moved from applied research centers to research and development departments.\n\nTechnology transfer is promoted at conferences organized by such groups as the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation and the Association of University Technology Managers, and at \"challenge\" competitions by organizations such as the Center for Advancing Innovation in Maryland. Local venture capital organizations such as the Mid-Atlantic Venture Association (MAVA) also sponsor conferences at which investors assess the potential for commercialization of technology.\n\nTechnology brokers are people who discovered how to bridge the emergent worlds and apply scientific concepts or processes to new situations or circumstances. A related term, used almost synonymously, is \"technology valorisation\". While conceptually the practice has been utilized for many years (in ancient times, Archimedes was notable for applying science to practical problems), the present-day volume of research, combined with high-profile failures at Xerox PARC and elsewhere, has led to a focus on the process itself.\n\nWhereas technology transfer can involve the dissemination of highly complex technology from capital-intensive origins to low-capital recipients (and can involve aspects of dependency and fragility of systems), it also can involve appropriate technology, not necessarily high-tech or expensive, that is better disseminated, yielding robustness and independence of systems.\n\nMany companies, universities and governmental organizations now have an Office of Technology Transfer (TTO, also known as \"Tech Transfer\" or \"TechXfer\") dedicated to identifying research which has potential commercial interest and strategies for how to exploit it. For instance, a research result may be of scientific and commercial interest, but patents are normally only issued for practical processes, and so someone—not necessarily the researchers—must come up with a specific practical process. Another consideration is commercial value; for example, while there are many ways to accomplish nuclear fusion, the ones of commercial value are those that generate more energy than they require to operate.\n\nThe process to commercially exploit research varies widely. It can involve licensing agreements or setting up joint ventures and partnerships to share both the risks and rewards of bringing new technologies to market. Other corporate vehicles, e.g. spin-outs, are used where the host organization does not have the necessary will, resources or skills to develop a new technology. Often these approaches are associated with raising of venture capital (VC) as a means of funding the development process, a practice more common in the United States than in the European Union, which has a more conservative approach to VC funding. Research spin-off companies are a popular vehicle of commercialisation in Canada, where the rate of licensing of Canadian university research remains far below that of the US.\n\nTechnology transfer offices may work on behalf of research institutions, governments and even large multinationals. Where start-ups and spin-outs are the clients, commercial fees are sometimes waived in lieu of an equity stake in the business. As a result of the potential complexity of the technology transfer process, technology transfer organizations are often multidisciplinary, including economists, engineers, lawyers, marketers and scientists. The dynamics of the technology transfer process has attracted attention in its own right, and there are several dedicated societies and journals.\n\nThere has been a marked increase in technology transfer intermediaries specialized in their field since 1980, stimulated in large part by the Bayh-Dole Act and equivalent legislation in other countries, which provided additional incentives for research exploitation.\n\nDespite incentives to move research into production, the practical aspects are sometimes difficult to perform in practice. Using DoD Technology Readiness Levels as a criterion (for example), research tends to focus on TRL (technology readiness level) 1–3 while readiness for production tends to focus on TRL 6–7 or higher. Bridging TRL-3 to TRL-6 has proven to be difficult in some organizations. Attempting to rush research (prototypes) into production (fully tested under diverse conditions, reliable, maintainable, etc.) tends to be more costly and time-consuming than expected.\n\n"}
{"id": "2041384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2041384", "title": "The Ambassadors (Holbein)", "text": "The Ambassadors (Holbein)\n\nThe Ambassadors (1533) is a painting by Hans Holbein the Younger. Also known as \"Jean de Dinteville and Georges de Selve\", it was created in the Tudor period, in the same year Elizabeth I was born. As well as being a double portrait, the painting contains a still life of several meticulously rendered objects, the meaning of which is the cause of much debate. It also incorporates a much-cited example of anamorphosis in painting. It is part of the collection at the National Gallery in London.\n\nAlthough a German-born artist who spent most of his time in England, Holbein displayed the influence of Early Netherlandish painters in this work. This influence can be noted most outwardly in the use of oil paint, the use of which for panel paintings had been developed a century before in Early Netherlandish painting. What is most \"Flemish\" of Holbein's use of oils is his use of the medium to render meticulous details that are mainly symbolic: as Jan van Eyck and the Master of Flémalle used extensive imagery to link their subjects to divinity, Holbein used symbols to link his figures to show the same things on the table.\nAmong the clues to the figures' explorative associations are a selection of scientific instruments including two globes (one terrestrial and one celestial), a shepherd's dial, a quadrant, a torquetum, and a polyhedral sundial, as well as various textiles including the floor mosaic, based on a design from Westminster Abbey (the Cosmati pavement, before the High Altar), and the carpet on the upper shelf, which is most notably oriental, an example of Oriental carpets in Renaissance painting. The choice for the inclusion of the two figures can furthermore be seen as symbolic. The figure on the left is in secular attire while the figure on the right is dressed in clerical clothes. Their flanking of the table, which displays open books, symbols of religious knowledge and even a symbolic link to the Virgin.\nIn contrast, other scholars have suggested the painting contains overtones of religious strife. The conflicts between secular and religious authorities are here represented by Jean de Dinteville, a landowner, and Georges de Selve, the Bishop of Lavaur. The commonly accepted symbol of discord, a lute with a broken string, is included next to a hymnbook in Martin Luther's translation, suggesting strife between scholars and the clergy.\n\nThe terrestrial globe on the lower shelf repeats a portion of a cartographically imaginative map created in possibly 1530 and of unknown origin. The map is referred to as the Ambassadors' Globe due to its popularly known appearance in the painting.\n\nThe work has been described as \"one of the most staggeringly impressive portraits in Renaissance art.\"\n\nThe most notable and famous of Holbein's symbols in the work, however, is the distorted skull which is placed in the bottom center of the composition. The skull, rendered in anamorphic perspective, another invention of the Early Renaissance, is meant to be a visual puzzle as the viewer must approach the painting from high on the right side, or low on the left side, to see the form as an accurate rendering of a human skull. While the skull is evidently intended as a \"vanitas\" or \"memento mori\", it is unclear why Holbein gave it such prominence in this painting. One possibility is that this painting represents three levels: the heavens (as portrayed by the astrolabe and other objects on the upper shelf), the living world (as evidenced by books and a musical instrument on the lower shelf), and death (signified by the skull). It has also been hypothesized that the painting is meant to hang in a stairwell, so that persons walking up the stairs and passing the painting on their left would be startled by the appearance of the skull. A further possibility is that Holbein simply wished to show off his ability with the technique in order to secure future commissions. Artists often incorporated skulls as a reminder of mortality. Holbein may have intended the skulls (one as a gray slash and the other as a medallion on Jean de Dinteville's hat) and the crucifix in the upper left corner to encourage contemplation of one's impending death and the resurrection.\n\nBefore the publication of Mary F. S. Hervey's \"Holbein's Ambassadors: The Picture and the Men\" in 1900, the identity of the two figures in the picture had long been a subject of intense debate. In 1890, Sidney Colvin was the first to propose the figure on the left as Jean de Dinteville, Seigneur of Polisy (1504–1555), French ambassador to the court of Henry VIII for most of 1533. Shortly afterwards, the cleaning of the picture revealed that his seat of Polisy is one of only four French places marked on the globe. Hervey identified the man on the right as Georges de Selve (1508/09–1541), Bishop of Lavaur, after tracing the painting's history back to a seventeenth-century manuscript. According to art historian John Rowlands, de Selve is not wearing episcopal robes because he was not consecrated until 1534. De Selve is known from two of de Dinteville's letters to his brother François de Dinteville, Bishop of Auxerre, to have visited London in the spring of 1533. On 23 May, Jean de Dinteville wrote: \"Monsieur de Lavaur did me the honour of coming to see me, which was no small pleasure to me. There is no need for the \"grand maître\" to hear anything of it\". The \"grand maître\" in question was Anne de Montmorency, the Marshal of France, a reference that has led some analysts to conclude that de Selve's mission was a secret one; but there is no other evidence to corroborate the theory. On June 4, the ambassador wrote to his brother again, saying: \"Monsieur de Lavaur came to see me, but has gone away again\".\nHervey's identification of the sitters has remained the standard one, affirmed in extended studies of the painting by Foister, Roy, and Wyld (1997), Zwingenberger (1999), and North (2004), who concludes that \"the general coherence of the evidence assembled by Hervey is very satisfying\"; however, North also notes that, despite Hervey's research, \"[R]ival speculation did not stop at once and is still not entirely dead\". Giles Hudson, for example, has argued that the man on the right is not de Selve, but Jean's brother François, Bishop of Auxerre, a noted patron of the arts with a known interest in mathematical instruments. The identification finds support in the earliest manuscript in which the painting is mentioned, a 1589 inventory of the Chateau of Polisy, discovered by Riccardo Famiglietti. However, scholars have argued that this identification of 1589 was incorrect. John North, for example, remarks that \"[T]his was a natural enough supposition to be made by a person with limited local knowledge, since the two brothers lived on the family estates together at the end of their lives, but it is almost certainly mistaken\". He points to a letter François de Dinteville wrote to Jean on 28 March 1533, in which he talks of an imminent meeting with the Pope and makes no mention of visiting London. Unlike the man on the right of the picture, François was older than Jean de Dinteville. The inscription on the man on the right's book is \"AETAT/IS SV Æ 25\" (his age is 25); that on de Dinteville's dagger is \"AET. SV Æ/ 29\" (he is 29).\n\nNorth's book analyzes the painting and shows it to be representing Good Friday through various clues on the instruments.\nIn the fifth episode of \"Hunted\", the painting is said to have been commissioned by British merchants who felt restricted by government. Their companies evolved into five multinationals concentrating their power and wealth as they undermine the public sector.\n\nIn the 2014 film \"Calvary\", Dylan Moran's character urinates on the painting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38468539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38468539", "title": "The Heart of Princess Joan", "text": "The Heart of Princess Joan\n\n\"The Heart of Princess Joan\" is a 19th-century fairy tale published in 1880 as part of the collection \"The Necklace of Princess Fiorimonde and other Stories\". This was the second of three published collections of fairy tales by popular children’s author, Mary De Morgan. Illustrations for the stories were provided by Walter Crane.\n\nMary De Morgan was born in 1850 into an intellectual and creative British family. She perfected her literary style by telling uniquely crafted fairy tales to the children of family and friends, who included the Burne-Jones, the Morrises, and the Kiplings. In fact, “The Heart of Princess Joan” is dedicated, with the other stories in the collection, to her nephews and nieces. James Fowler remarks that “she seems to represent a full flowering of the Victorian fairy-tale genre[…].”\n\nThe fairy tale opens with a wealthy King and Queen who lived happily. The Queen was prideful and disdained the fairies, and so when she had a baby girl named Joan, the vengeful fairies stole the young child's heart. Joan grew up to be the most beautiful girl in the land, but loved nobody. In the neighboring country, there lived a Prince named Michael – the most gracious man of all. He came across a picture of Joan in an old wizard’s tower, but the wizard warned him to avoid Joan. Regardless of the wizard's warning, Michael wished to marry Joan. Even though Prince Michael's love for Joan grew, he was curious and so disguised himself as a beggar in order to discover what was wrong with the Princess; he soon found she was cold-hearted and ruthless. He spoke to the Queen and learned about her missing heart. He told her he would retrieve Joan's heart, and if he failed to return in seven years, Joan could marry someone else. The wizard learned of these plans and gave Michael a special piece of glass. If he followed the blood-red star through the glass, he would be led to Joan’s heart.\n\nMichael traveled for ages, across land and water. His boat eventually drifted to a land which housed a castle he could not enter. Beside the castle there was an old man and a snake. The old man offered to show Michael the way into the castle, if Michael consented to be his slave until the snake hatched its eggs; Michael agreed. Years and years passed and Michael became angry because the eggs never hatched. He attempted to destroy the eggs but was not successful. As he cried, his tears fell upon them and the shells cracked open. Michael found his way into the castle, and vowed to accept nothing else but the heart of his beloved. A fairy of many disguises encouraged Michael to eat enchanted food, but he was never fooled, since he could see who she really was through his piece of glass. Finally, the fairy gave him the heart of Joan along with some magical words to repeat when seeing her. When Michael returned he was mistakenly imprisoned, but as soon as he saw the Princess through the bars of his cell, he repeated the words, and the heart in his hand fluttered into Joan’s chest. She immediately recognized Michael, insisted they get married, and kissed him in front of all to see. They were wed and the people were happy. “For now we are sure of a good King,” the people said. “See, he has already shown what he can do. Surely no one else could ever have found the heart of Princess Joan.” \n\nAlthough De Morgan’s stories, including “The Heart of Princess Joan,” have a folk-like feel, they are original and recorded in a style similar to that of Hans Christian Andersen. This might be due to the fact that these stories were told to children before their final form was decided on and then published. This story, in particular, draws on the themes of enduring love and personal sacrifice, which are manifested by the hero, Prince Michael; these are reoccurring themes in De Morgan’s stories. Although De Morgan’s fairy tales usually comment on Victorian culture, of which she was a part, there is a lack of scholarly discussion about such parallels in “The Heart of Princess Joan.” De Morgan’s stories are also said to “question the value of wealth and power.” This is clearly seen in “The Heart of Princess Joan” when Prince Michael is tempted by the sumptuous appearance of the Yellow Fairy’s castle, which in truth, turns out to be as hideous and grotesque as the fairy herself.\n\n“Ready this day, extra fep., 8 vo., 6s, The Necklace of Princess Fiorimonde, and other Stories, By Mary De Morgan. With 25 Illustrations by Walter Crane. Also an edition on large paper, the illustrations on India paper, limited to 100 copies.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "676646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=676646", "title": "The Night Watch", "text": "The Night Watch\n\nMilitia Company of District II under the Command of Captain Frans Banninck Cocq, also known as The Shooting Company of Frans Banning Cocq and Willem van Ruytenburch, but commonly referred to as The Night Watch (), is a 1642 painting by Rembrandt van Rijn. It is in the collection of the Amsterdam Museum but is prominently displayed in the Rijksmuseum as the best known painting in its collection. \"The Night Watch\" is one of the most famous Dutch Golden Age paintings.\n\nThe painting is famous for three things: its colossal size (), the dramatic use of light and shadow (tenebrism) and the perception of motion in what would have traditionally been a static military group portrait. The painting was completed in 1642, at the peak of the Dutch Golden Age. It depicts the eponymous company moving out, led by Captain Frans Banning Cocq (dressed in black, with a red sash) and his lieutenant, Willem van Ruytenburch (dressed in yellow, with a white sash). With effective use of sunlight and shade, Rembrandt leads the eye to the three most important characters among the crowd: the two gentlemen in the centre (from whom the painting gets its original title), and the woman in the centre-left background carrying a chicken. Behind them, the company's colours are carried by the ensign, Jan Visscher Cornelissen. The figures are almost life-size.\n\nRembrandt has displayed the traditional emblem of the arquebusiers in a natural way, with the woman in the background carrying the main symbols. She is a kind of mascot herself; the claws of a dead chicken on her belt represent the \"clauweniers\" (arquebusiers), the pistol behind the chicken represents clover and she is holding the militia's goblet. The man in front of her is wearing a helmet with an oak leaf, a traditional motif of the arquebusiers. The dead chicken is also meant to represent a defeated adversary. The colour yellow is often associated with victory.\n\nFor much of its existence, the painting was coated with a dark varnish, which gave the incorrect impression that it depicted a night scene, leading to the name by which it is now commonly known. This varnish was removed only in the 1940s.\n\nIn 1715, upon its removal from the \"Kloveniersdoelen\" to the Amsterdam Town Hall, the painting was trimmed on all four sides. This was done, presumably, to fit the painting between two columns and was a common practice before the 19th century. This alteration resulted in the loss of two characters on the left side of the painting, the top of the arch, the balustrade, and the edge of the step. This balustrade and step were key visual tools used by Rembrandt to give the painting a forward motion. A 17th-century copy of the painting by Gerrit Lundens at the National Gallery, London shows the original composition.\n\nThe painting was commissioned (around 1639) by Captain Banning Cocq and seventeen members of his \"Kloveniers\" (civic militia guards). Eighteen names appear on a shield, painted circa 1715, in the centre right background, as the hired drummer was added to the painting for free. A total of 34 characters appear in the painting. Rembrandt was paid 1,600 guilders for the painting (each person paid one hundred), a large sum at the time. This was one of a series of seven similar paintings of the militiamen () commissioned during that time from various artists.\n\nThe painting was commissioned to hang in the banquet hall of the newly built \"Kloveniersdoelen\" (Musketeers' Meeting Hall) in Amsterdam. Some have suggested that the occasion for Rembrandt's commission and the series of other commissions given to other artists was the visit of the French queen, Marie de Medici, in 1638. Even though she was escaping from her exile from France ordered by her son Louis XIII, the queen's arrival was met with great pageantry.\n\nThere is some academic discussion as to where Rembrandt actually executed the painting. It is too large to have been completed in his studio in his house (modern address Jodenbreestraat 4, 1011 NK Amsterdam). Scholars are divided. In city records of the period he applied to build a \"summer kitchen\" on the back of his house. The dimensions of this structure would have accommodated the painting over the three years it took him to paint it. Another candidate is in an adjacent church and a third possibility is actually on site.\n\n\"The Night Watch\" first hung in the \"Groote Zaal\" (Great Hall) or Amsterdam's \"Kloveniersdoelen\". This structure currently houses the Doelen Hotel. In 1715, the painting was moved to the Amsterdam Town Hall, for which it was altered. When Napoleon occupied the Netherlands, the Town Hall became the Palace on the Dam and the magistrates moved the painting to the \"Trippenhuis\" of the family Trip. Napoleon ordered it returned, but after the occupation ended in 1813, the painting again moved to the \"Trippenhuis\", which now housed the Dutch Academy of Sciences. It remained there until it moved to the new \"Rijksmuseum\" when its building was finished in 1885.\nThe painting was removed from the museum in September 1939, at the onset of World War II. The canvas was detached from its frame and rolled around a cylinder. The rolled painting was stored for four years in a special safe that was built to protect many works of art in the underground caves of Maastricht, Netherlands. After the end of the war, the canvas was re-mounted, restored, and returned to its rightful place in the Rijksmuseum.\n\nOn 11 December 2003, \"The Night Watch\" was moved to a temporary location, due to a major refurbishment of the Rijksmuseum. The painting was detached from its frame, wrapped in stain-free paper, put into a wooden frame which was put into two sleeves, driven on a cart to its new destination, hoisted, and brought into its new home through a special slit.\n\nWhile the refurbishment took place, \"The Night Watch\" could be viewed in its temporary location in the \"Philipsvleugel\" of the Rijksmuseum. When the refurbishment was finished in April 2013, the painting was returned to its original place in the \"Nachtwachtzaal\" (\"Room of the Night Watch\").\n\nOn 13 January 1911, a jobless shoemaker and former Navy chef slashed the painting with a shoemaker's knife protesting his inability to find work. \n\nOn 14 September 1975 the work was attacked with a bread knife by an unemployed school teacher, Wilhelmus de Rijk, resulting in several large zig-zagged slashes up to 12 inches long. With a history of mental illness he claimed he, \"did it for the Lord\" and that he, \"was ordered to do it.\" The painting was successfully restored after four years, but some evidence of the damage is still visible up close. The man was never charged and he committed suicide in April 1976.\n\nOn 6 April 1990, an escaped psychiatric patient sprayed acid onto the painting with a concealed pump bottle. Security guards intervened stopping the man and quickly sprayed water onto the canvas. The acid had only penetrated the varnish layer of the painting and it was fully restored.\n\nOn 16 October 2018, the museum announced that from July 2019 it would begin a new multi-year restoration of the painting while it remained on public view.\n\n\nOn 26 October 2011, the Rijksmuseum unveiled new, sustainable LED lighting for \"The Night Watch\". With new technology, it is the first time LED lighting has been able to render the fine nuances of the painting's complex color palette.\n\nThe new illumination uses LED lights with a color temperature of 3,200 kelvin, similar to warm-white light sources like tungsten halogen. It has a color rendering index of over 90, which makes it suitable for the illumination of artifacts such as \"The Night Watch\". Using the new LED lighting, the museum saves 80% on energy and offers the painting a safer environment because of the absence of UV radiation and heat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19429605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19429605", "title": "The Tale of Auðun of the West Fjords", "text": "The Tale of Auðun of the West Fjords\n\nAuðunar þáttr vestfirska (The Tale of Auðun of the West Fjords) is a short tale (or þáttr) preserved in three distinct versions as part of the saga of Harald III of Norway (reigned 1047–66, a.k.a. Haraldr inn harðráði Sigurðsson), as the saga is told in the manuscripts Morkinskinna, Flateyjarbók, and several others. Widely translated and anthologised, it is admired for its beautifully simple account of a poor Icelander from the Westfjords, the harshest region of the country, who decides to take a polar bear as a present to Sweyn II of Denmark (reigned 1047-74/76, a.k.a. Sveinn Úlfsson). Auðun sticks to his task despite having to pass through the court of Haraldr, who is continually at odds with Sweyn, and proceeds on a pilgrimage to Rome. Auðun's mixture of determination, audacity and humility leads him to gain the respect of both kings, and through him their respect for one another increases also.\n\nAlthough ostensibly historical, the work is more plausibly to be seen as 'a historified folktale'.\n\nThe tale is preserved in three manuscripts:\n\nAuðun of the Westfjords is a poor man working for his relative Þorstein. A Norwegian ship arrives and Auðun aids the captain Þórir with advice and sells goods for him. In return, Þórir grants Auðun passage, and Auðun makes financial arrangements to support his mother for three years. Auðun then travels to Greenland, where he meets a hunter named Eirik and buys a polar bear from him with the remainder of his money. The hunter warns Auðun about spending his entire fortune on the bear, but Auðun does not heed his warning.\n\nNext Auðun travels to Norway and meets King Haraldr at a feast. The king asks if Auðun will sell or give him the bear, and Auðun replies that he intends to give it as a gift to King Sweyn of Denmark, with whom King Haraldr happens to be at war. Haraldr chastises Auðun for wanting to give a gift to his enemy, but instead of harming Auðun, grants him passage.\n\nBy the time Auðun crosses into Denmark, he has run out of provisions for himself and his bear, and a king's steward named Aki offers him help on the condition that he receives ownership of half the bear in return. Auðun is forced to accept and the two men seek audience with the king. King Sweyn banishes Aki for interfering with Auðun's gift-giving, and invites Auðun to stay with him.\n\nAfter some time, Auðun asks King Sweyn leave to go on pilgrimage to Rome. The king gives him money and other pilgrims to accompany him and asks him to return to him when he is done.\n\nAuðun successfully completes his pilgrimage, but becomes ill during his return. He arrives back in Denmark, bald and almost completely unrecognizable. King Sweyn's retainers laugh at him, but the king responds by saying that he has provided for his soul more than they have. He gives Auðun new clothes and offers him to stay as his cupbearer. Auðun replies he cannot stay and must return to Iceland, since the three-year period he set money aside to provide for his mother is nearly up. Upon parting, the king gives him a ship, a bag full of silver, and an arm ring, saying that he should only give the ring to a high-ranking person if he needs to repay a debt.\n\nAfter departing, Auðun travels back to Norway and relates his experiences with King Sweyn to King Haraldr, from his acceptance of the bear to funding his pilgrimage to Rome and hospitality. Auðun describes his gifts from King Sweyn, and with each item, King Haraldr says he would have done the same for Auðun, except the bag of silver. Auðun then comes to the ring, and gives it to King Haraldr, since he owes him for granting him passage to complete his journey. The king accepts the ring, and gives Auðun a sword and cloak before he departs.\n\nAuðun returns to Iceland and has good fortune for the rest of his life there.\n\nAuðun's Tale is driven largely by Auðun's luck. William Ian Miller explains the etymology of Auðun's name, tracing the elements back to vinr, meaning 'friend' and auð, meaning 'luck, good fortune, fate'. Miller further connects the root of auð to the vað in vaðmál, the woven cloth used as a type of currency in medieval Iceland, and to the spinning and weaving of fate by the Norns. Thus, Miller argues, Auðun is inherently lucky and the course of his story \"exists in embryo in his name.\"\n\nMiller rejects scholars' two main theories of Auðun's motives for his behavior: that he is either a holy fool or acting solely out of self-interest. According to Miller, Auðun's actions are too carefully thought-out for him to be naive, and interprets the purpose of Aki's character as a demonstration that Auðun is not acting out of pure self-interest. Instead, Miller suggests that Auðun's actions are driven by a combination of self-interest tempered with sincere, noble intentions.\n\nGift-giving and exchange are central to Auðun's Tale. Members of Old Norse society exchanged gifts with each other as a means for establishing and cementing social bonds. A gift normally carried with it an obligation to give a gift in return. Auðun's Tale explores the implications of gift exchange between social peers of similar standing, between lower and higher standing (such as Auðun and King Haraldr and King Sweyn), and between humans and God (Auðun going on pilgrimage to Rome). Edward G. Fichtner sees the story representing Auðun's coming of age \"by his learning how to participate in the exchange of gifts in his culture\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6506904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6506904", "title": "The Wheat Field", "text": "The Wheat Field\n\nThe Wheat Field is a series of oil paintings executed by Vincent van Gogh in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence. All of them depict the view Van Gogh had from the window of his bedroom on the top floor of the asylum: a field enclosed by stone walls just beneath his window and excluded from normal life by the rear wall of the asylum grounds; beyond this enclosure farm land, accompanied by olive groves and vineyards, ran up to the hills at the foot of the mountain range called Les Alpilles.\n\nFrom May 1889 to May 1890, Van Gogh recorded this view in changing settings: after a storm, with a reaper in the field, with fresh wheat raising in autumn and with flowers in the spring. This is one of Van Gogh's major series from Saint-Rémy, comprising wonderful works such as the \"Wheat Field at Sunrise\" in the Kröller-Müller Museum. Van Gogh included the \"Enclosed Field with Rising Sun\" (F737) made in December 1889 in his Display at Les XX 1890 in Brussels.\n\nVan Gogh worked on a group of paintings \"The Wheat Field\" that he could see from his cell at Saint-Paul Hospital. From the studio room he could see a field of wheat, enclosed by a wall. Beyond that were the mountains from Arles. During his stay at the asylum he made about twelve paintings of the view of the enclosed wheat field and distant mountains. In May Van Gogh wrote to Theo, \"Through the iron-barred window I see a square field of wheat in an enclosure, a perspective like Van Goyen, above which I see the morning sun rising in all its glory.\" The stone wall, like a picture frame, helped to display the changing colors of the wheat field.\n\nThe Kröller-Müller Museum's \"Enclosed Wheat Field with Rising Sun\" was painted in May 1889. Van Gogh used the rising sun above fields of wheat to represent its life giving energy.\n\n\"Green Wheat Field\" was painted in June 1889. Van Gogh had a tender feeling about green wheat, likening it to that of a baby: \"Young wheat has something inexpressibly pure and tender about it, which awakens the same emotion as the expression of a sleeping baby.\" Towards the end of his life he regarded his most delicate works, a young wheat field with the rising sun or a blooming orchard, as his \"babies.\"\n\nVan Gogh describes \"Mountainous Landscape Behind Saint-Rémy,\" also made in June, as a view taken in the hills seen from his bedroom window: \"In the foreground, a field of wheat ruined and hurled to the ground by a storm. A boundary wall and beyond the grey foliage of a few olive trees, some huts and the hills. Then at the top of the canvas a great white and grey cloud floating in the azure.\"\n\nIn late June Van Gogh painted \"Wheat Field with Reaper and Sun\" which he described as \"a wheat field, very yellow and very light, perhaps the lightest canvas I have done.\"\n\nIn July he painted Kröller-Müller Museum's \"Landscape with Wheat Sheaves and Rising Moon\" which he describes as \"a moonrise over the same field as the sketch in Gauguin's letter, but in it some stacks take the place of the wheat. It is dull yellow-ochre and violet.\"\n\n\"Enclosed Field with Ploughman\" was made in August 1889, which is held in a private collection (F625).\n\nThe \"Wheat Field with a Reaper\" was started in the summer before a bout of illness and completed in September. Here Van Gogh depicts a reaper in a sun-drenched wheat field. Referring to a Biblical metaphor, Van Gogh wrote of the meaning of this painting, \"In this reaper – a vague figure laboring like the devil in the terrible heat to finish his task – I saw an image of death, in the sense that the wheat being reaped represented mankind... But there is nothing sad in this death, it takes place in broad daylight, under a sun that bathes everything in a fine, golden light.\"\n\n\"Enclosed Field with Peasant\" was painted over several days in October, working just outside the hospital. It accurately reflects the topography of the walled wheat field with the peaks of the Alpilles in the background. Van Gogh's brushwork brings life to this picture of furrowed soil and craggy mountains. At the center, a peasant carries a bundle of straw, a symbol of the cycles of life. Van Gogh described this painting as a pendant to \"The Reaper\", which resides at the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, both in vivid complementary colors of yellow and blue-violet. Both he considers harsh studies, but instead of being almost entirely yellow like \"The Reaper\", the \"picture is almost entirely violet. Broken violet and neutral tints.\"\n\nIn September Van Gogh worked on \"Wheat Field behind Saint-Paul Hospital with a Reaper.\" Intending to paint a pure sulfur yellow, he wrote to Émile Bernard that he had taken up the \"devil of a question of yellow\". He explained to his brother Theo, \"I see in this reaper – an undefined figure, struggling in the intense heat like the devil to finish his work – I see him as an image of death in the sense that the humans are the corn that is being cut down. So it is, if you will, the opposite of the sowing that I tried earlier. But this death is not sad, it takes place in bright light with a sun that covers everything with a light like pure gold.\"\n\n\"Rain\" also called \"Enclosed Wheat Field in the Rain\" is unique to Van Gogh's work in the South. He represented falling rain by diagonal lines of paint. The style is reminiscent of Japanese prints, but the effect is stylistically personal to Van Gogh.\n\nIn December Van Gogh made \"Wheat Field with a Rising Sun,\" held in a private collection. The work, started in late November, shows a sunrise above a field of young wheat in the complementary colors of yellow-green and purple. Deep furrows run towards the enclosed wall behind which is a row of purple hills. The sun is surrounded by a large yellow halo. Van Gogh sough to \"express calmness, great peace.\" Further, he expresses \"without making direct reference to the actual Gethsemane... and there is no need to portray figures from the Sermon on the Mount in order to express a comforting and gentle motif.\" It was one of the six canvases he selected for the exhibit at Les Vingt [XX] in Brussels in 1890.\n\nThe \"Wheat Field with Cypresses\" paintings were made when Van Gogh was able to leave the asylum. Van Gogh had a fondness for cypresses and wheat fields of which he wrote: \"Only I have no news to tell you, for the days are all the same, I have no ideas, except to think that a field of wheat or a cypress well worth the trouble of looking at closeup.\"\n\nIn early July Van Gogh wrote to his brother Theo of a work he began in June, \"Wheat Field with Cypresses\": \"I have a canvas of cypresses with some ears of wheat, some poppies, a blue sky like a piece of Scotch plaid; the former painted with a thick impasto . . . and the wheat field in the sun, which represents the extreme heat, very thick too.\" Van Gogh who regarded this landscape as one of his \"best\" summer paintings made two additional oil paintings very similar in composition that fall. One of the two is in a private collection.\n\nLondon's National Gallery \"A Wheat Field, with Cypresses\" painting was made in September which author H.W. Janson describes: \"the field is like a stormy sea; the trees spring flamelike from the ground; and the hills and clouds heave with the same surge of motion. Every stroke stands out boldly in a long ribbon of strong, unmixed color.\"\n\nThere is also another version of \"Wheat Fields with Cypresses\" made in September with a blue-green sky, reportedly held at the Tate Gallery in London (F743).\n\nVan Gogh describes the ripening \"Green Wheat Field with Cypresses\" painted in June: \"a field of wheat turning yellow, surrounded by blackberry bushes and green shrubs. At the end of the field there is a little house with a tall somber cypress which stands out against the far-off hills with their violet-like and bluish tones, and against a sky the color of forget-me-nots with pink streaks, whose pure hues form a contrast with the scorched ears, which are already heavy, and have the warm tones of a bread crust.\"\n\nIn October van Gogh made \"Enclosed Wheat Field with Ploughman.\"\n\n\"Wheat Fields in a Mountainous Landscape,\" also titled \"Meadow in the Mountains\" was painted in Late November - early December 1889.\n\nIn November, \"Wheat Field Behind Saint-Paul\" was painted by Van Gogh, now owned by Virginia Museum of Fine Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "8185932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8185932", "title": "Trench art", "text": "Trench art\n\nTrench art is any decorative item made by soldiers, prisoners of war, or civilians where the manufacture is directly linked to armed conflict or its consequences. It offers an insight not only to their feelings and emotions about the war, but also their surroundings and the materials they had available to them.\n\nNot limited to the World Wars, the history of trench art spans conflicts from the Napoleonic Wars to the present day. Although the practice flourished during World War I, the term 'trench art' is also used to describe souvenirs manufactured by service personnel during World War II. Some items manufactured by soldiers, prisoners of war or civilians during earlier conflicts have been retrospectively described as trench art.\n\nThere are four broad categories of trench art:\n\nThere is much evidence to prove that some trench art was made in the trenches, by soldiers, during war.\n\nIn \"With a Machine Gun to Cambrai\", George Coppard tells of pressing his uniform buttons into the clay floor of his trench, then pouring molten lead from shrapnel into the impressions to cast replicas of the regimental crest.\n\nChalk carvings were also popular, with contemporary postcards showing carvings in the rocky outcrops of dug-outs.\n\nMany smaller items such as rings and knives were made by soldiers either in front line or support trenches, especially in quieter parts of the line.\n\nWounded soldiers were encouraged to work at crafts as part of their recuperation, with embroidery and simple forms of woodwork being common. Again from \"With a Machine Gun to Cambrai\", George Coppard recalls that, while recuperating from wounds at a private house in Birkenhead, \"one kind old lady brought a supply of coloured silks and canvas and instructed us in the art of embroidery. A sampler which I produced under her guidance so pleased her that she had it framed for me.\"\n\nAn example of therapeutic embroidery during World War I is the work of British military in Egypt, who were photographed sewing and embroidering for Syrian refugees. There was also the Bradford Khaki Handicrafts Club, which was funded in Bradford, UK, in 1918, to provide occupational therapy and employment for men returning from the trenches in France|url=https://trc-leiden.nl/trc-needles/organisations-and-movements/charities/bradford-khaki-handicrafts-club.\n\nThe second category consists of items made by prisoners of war and interned civilians.\n\nPOWs had good reasons to make decorative objects: free time and limited resources. Much POW work was therefore done with the express intention of trading the finished article for food, money or other privileges.\n\nReference to POW work is made in the recollections of A B Baker, W.A.A.C., contained in the book \"Everyman at War\", published by Purdom in 1930:\n\"Part of my work had to do with prisoners quartered in a camp near to our own. Those Germans were friendly men. They were clever with their hands, and would give me little carvings which they had made.\"\n\nThe third category is items made by civilians, which mainly means civilians in and around the conflict zone, but would also include items made by sweethearts at home.\n\nIn 1914, the US set up the Commission for Relief in Belgium, headed by Herbert Hoover. It shipped staple foodstuffs, mainly flour, in the printed cotton flour sacks typical of the period. As thanks, the Belgians would embroider and paint in the designs, elaborating them with dates and flags and send them back to the US. Examples of these are now in the Herbert Hoover Museum, but some were sold to soldiers in Paris or given as gifts.\n\nCivilians in France, in the zones occupied by troops, were quick to exploit a new market. Embroidered postcards were produced in what quickly became a cottage industry, with civilians buying the surrounds and embroidering a panel of gauze. These postcards depicted regimental crests or patriotic flags and national symbols in abundance, and millions were produced over the course of the war.\n\nAt war's end, when civilians began to reclaim their shattered communities, a new market appeared in the form of pilgrims and tourists. Over the ensuing twenty years mountains of discarded debris, shell casings, and castoff equipment were slowly recycled, with mass-produced town crest motifs being stuck onto bullets, shell casings, fuse caps, and other paraphernalia to be sold to tourists.\n\nThe fourth category is purely commercial production. After the war, tonnes of surplus materials were sold by the government and converted to souvenirs of the conflict.\n\nShip breaking, particularly if the ship had been involved in significant events such as the Battle of Jutland, resulted in much of the wood from the ship being turned into miniature barrels, letter racks, and boxes, with small brass plaques attached announcing, for example, \"Made of teak from HMS \"Shipsname\", which fought at the Battle of Jutland\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10780993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10780993", "title": "Vicky Cristina Barcelona", "text": "Vicky Cristina Barcelona\n\nVicky Cristina Barcelona is a 2008 romantic comedy-drama film written and directed by Woody Allen. The plot centers on two American women, Vicky and Cristina, who spend a summer in Barcelona, where they meet an artist, Juan Antonio, who is attracted to both of them while still enamored of his mentally and emotionally unstable ex-wife María Elena. The film was shot in Spain in Barcelona, Avilés and Oviedo, and was Allen's fourth consecutive film shot outside the United States.\n\nThe film premiered at the 2008 Cannes Film Festival, then received a rolling worldwide general release that started on August 15, 2008, in the United States, and continued in various countries until its June 2009 release in Japan. The film was nominated for four Golden Globe Awards, including nominations for Bardem, Hall and Cruz for Best Actor, Best Actress, and Best Supporting Actress, respectively, and won the award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy. Cruz won both the Academy Award and BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role. Altogether, the film won 25 out of 56 nominations.\n\nVicky and Cristina visit Barcelona for the summer, staying with Vicky's distant relative Judy and her husband Mark. While the two are great friends, Vicky is practical and traditional in her approach to love and commitment and is engaged to the reliable Doug, whereas Cristina imagines herself to be a nonconformist, spontaneous but unsure of what she wants from life or love.\n\nAt an art exhibition, Cristina is intrigued by artist Juan Antonio, who Judy says has suffered a violent relationship with his ex-wife. Later, he brazenly approaches the two women to invite them to join him right away for the weekend in the city of Oviedo, in a small plane he flies himself, for sight-seeing, fine eating and drinking, and hopefully, lovemaking. Cristina is won over by the offer almost at once, but Vicky is unimpressed and reluctant; she, however, eventually decides to accompany her friend anyway, mainly to watch over her.\n\nAt the end of their first day, Vicky refuses to join Juan Antonio in his hotel room, citing her fidelity to Doug, but Cristina accepts his invitation immediately. Before the lovemaking starts, Cristina suddenly falls ill with digestive complaints, and is put to bed, with food poisoning. Vicky and Juan Antonio proceed to spend the weekend together alone while they wait for Cristina to recuperate. Vicky gradually changes her opinion of Juan Antonio as he tells her about his tumultuous relationship with his former wife, María Elena. Vicky accompanies him to visit his father, an old poet, and then becomes deeply moved by a Spanish guitar performance later that evening. She finally succumbs to Juan Antonio's advances as they walk through a grove of trees in the dark. The next day, with Cristina recovered, the three of them fly back to Barcelona.\n\nFeeling guilty, Vicky does not mention the incident to Cristina, and the two begin to grow apart. Vicky starts throwing herself into her studies while Cristina and Juan Antonio take up a relationship. Cristina then moves in with Juan Antonio and begins to discover more about his past. After learning that María Elena attempted to kill herself, Juan Antonio takes her to his home, where Cristina already lives. After some defiance, the two women grow fond of each other. Cristina realizes that the ex-spouses are still in love, and María Elena suggests that Cristina may be the element that can give balance and stability to their relationship. All three become romantically involved with one another.\n\nIn the meantime, Vicky is joined in Spain by an enthusiastic Doug and the two get married. When Cristina describes her new life with Juan Antonio to Vicky, Vicky becomes secretly jealous, and after a few other awkward moments, she realizes she is unsatisfied in her married life and is still attracted to Juan Antonio. Learning that Judy is similarly unhappy in her marriage, she confides to her, and Judy, who sees her younger self in Vicky, decides to bring Juan Antonio and Vicky together. Meanwhile, Cristina becomes restless and at some point decides to leave Juan Antonio and María Elena; without her, their relationship quickly falls apart again.\n\nAs the summer winds to a close, Judy arranges for Juan Antonio and Vicky to meet at a party. Juan Antonio begs Vicky to meet him again privately before leaving Spain, which she finally accepts, lying to Doug in the process. At his home, Juan Antonio seduces and wins Vicky over again, but they are interrupted by María Elena who bursts in with a gun, firing wildly as Juan Antonio tries to calm her. Vicky gets shot in the hand in the process, and leaves, shouting they are insane and she could never live like this. She confesses the entire story to Cristina, who never realized how Vicky felt about Juan Antonio, and wishes she could have helped her. Doug, Vicky and Cristina return to the United States; Doug never learns what truly happened, Vicky goes back to her married life, and Cristina is back where she started, still unsure of what she wants from life or love.\n\n\nSpanish actor Joan Pera, who dubbed Allen's voice in his previous films, makes a cameo appearance.\n\nIn 2007, controversy arose in Catalonia (Spain) because the film was partially funded with public money; Barcelona's city hall provided one million euro and the Generalitat de Catalunya (Government of Catalonia) half a million, or ten percent of the film's budget.\n\nThis was the third time Johansson and Allen worked together, following \"Match Point\" (2005) and \"Scoop\" (2006). This also marked the second time Johansson and Hall worked together, the first time being in \"The Prestige\" (2006).\n\nThe film featured several paintings by Catalan artist Agustí Puig.\n\n, the film grossed $96 million worldwide; in relation to its $15 million budget, it is one of Allen's most profitable films.\n\n\"Vicky Cristina Barcelona\" garnered the best reviews Allen received since his Academy Award-nominated 2005 film \"Match Point\" (also starring Johansson), particularly for Cruz's performance, earning a rating of 81% on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nScott Tobias wrote in \"The A.V. Club\" that it was \"a witty and ambiguous movie that's simultaneously intoxicating and suffused with sadness and doubt\". Richard Roeper suggested that Cruz should receive an Academy Award nomination for her role. Mick LaSalle of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" praised the film as \"the work of a confident and mature artist\", referring to Allen. Manohla Dargis of \"The New York Times\" wrote \"Although \"Vicky Cristina\" trips along winningly, carried by the beauty of its locations and stars — and all the gauzy romanticism those enchanted places and people imply — it reverberates with implacable melancholy, a sense of loss.\" Richard Corliss ended his review of the film with \"The movie has neither the sardonic heft of Max Ophüls's \"La Ronde\" nor the emotional precision of Ingmar Bergman's \"Smiles of a Summer Night\", two films that also dance the change-partners gavotte. But \"Vicky Cristina Barcelona\" is so engaging so much of the time that it feels like a modest rejuvenation: evidence that a summer in Spain can do wonders for a writer-director who may not have outlived his prime.\" S. Williams of \"Momzone\" magazine singled out Johansson's performance for praise, writing, \"Johansson's acting is syrup: fluid and sweet.\" Ian Freer of \"Empire\" gave the film 4 out of 5, and wrote \"within Allen's recent output, Vicky Cristina is a highlight. See it for beautiful locales, an ambivalent look at human relationships and a clutch of great performances, especially from Cruz.\"\n\nThe film appeared on many critics' top-ten lists of the best films of 2008.\n\nThe film won the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy. Woody Allen won his first Independent Spirit Award for Best Screenplay and was nominated for the Writers Guild of America Award for Best Original Screenplay.\n\nPenélope Cruz won the Best Supporting Actress award from numerous organizations including: the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, the Independent Spirit Awards, the Boston Society of Film Critics, the Goya Awards, the Kansas City Film Critics Circle, the Los Angeles Film Critics Association, the National Board of Review, the New York Film Critics Circle, and the Southeastern Film Critics Association.\n\n"}
