{"id": "40847273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40847273", "title": "2013 in public domain", "text": "2013 in public domain\n\nThis is a list of works that enter the public domain in part of the world in 2013.\n\nA work enters the public domain in most European countries (with the exception of Belarus) 70 years after the creator's death, if it was published during the author's lifetime.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Copyright Term Extension Act means no new works will enter the public domain in this jurisdiction until 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3989527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3989527", "title": "Attorney General (Isle of Man)", "text": "Attorney General (Isle of Man)\n\nThe Attorney General () of the Isle of Man is the Government's top legal adviser and has an \"ex officio\" (non-voting) seat in the Legislative Council.\n\nThe Attorney General is a Crown officer, rather than a member of the Isle of Man Government. He is appointed by the Queen on the advice of the UK Secretary of State for Justice.\n\nHer Majesty's Attorney General in the Isle of Man is currently John Quinn QC, who first held the post in an acting capacity until 2017, while Stephen Harding was suspended and after Harding resigned. Harding was charged with perjury and committing acts against public justice, but after two trials in which the juries were unable to agree a verdict, it was announced that no further criminal proceedings would be taken.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21340208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21340208", "title": "Bolton v Mahadeva", "text": "Bolton v Mahadeva\n\nBolton v Mahadeva [1972] 2 All ER 1322 is an English contract law case, concerning substantial performance of an obligation.\n\nMr Walter Charles Bolton installed central heating for £560 in Mr T Mahadeva’s house. It was too cold, the heat came unevenly and it all gave off fumes. Bolton refused to correct it, which would cost £174. Mahadeva refused to pay any money at all. Bolton sued.\n\nThe Brentford Deputy County Court judge, Sir Graeme Finlay, held that the contract price needed to be paid, minus a sum for the cost of putting the heating system right (a total of £446, including labour).\n\nSachs LJ held that Bolton was entitled to nothing because there had been no substantial performance at all. At 1015 he said, ‘It is not merely that so very much of the work was shoddy, but it is the general ineffectiveness of it for its primary purpose that leads me to that conclusion.’\n\n\n"}
{"id": "229445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229445", "title": "Broadcast range", "text": "Broadcast range\n\nA broadcast range (also listening range or listening area for radio, or viewing range or viewing area for television) is the service area that a broadcast station or other transmission covers via radio waves (or possibly infrared light, which is closely related). It is generally the area in which a station's signal strength is sufficient for most receivers to decode it. However, this also depends on interference from other stations.\n\nThe \"primary service area\" is the area served by a station's strongest signal. The \"city-grade contour\" is 70 dBµ (decibels relative to one microvolt per meter of signal strength) or 3.16mV/m (millivolts per meter) for FM stations in the United States, according to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations. This is also significant in broadcast law, in that a station must cover its city of license within this area, except for non-commercial educational and low-power stations.\n\nThe legally protected range of a station extends beyond this range, out to the point where signal strength is expected to be 1mV/m for most stations in North America, though for class B1 stations it is 0.7mV/m, and as low as 0.5mV/m for full class B stations (the maximum allowed in densely populated areas of both Canada and the U.S.).\n\nIn reality, radio propagation changes along with the weather and tropospheric ducting, and occasionally along with other upper-atmospheric phenomena like sunspots and even meteor showers. Thus, while a broadcasting authority might fix the range to an area with exact boundaries (defined as a series of vectors), this is rarely if ever true. When a broadcast reaches well outside of its intended range due to unusual conditions, DXing is possible.\n\nThe local terrain can also play a major role in limiting broadcast range. Mountain ranges block FM broadcasts, AM broadcasts, and TV broadcasts, and other signals in the VHF and especially UHF ranges, respectively. This terrain shielding occurs when the line of sight is blocked by something through which the radio waves cannot pass, particularly stone. At times this may be moot due to weather, such as when the tall cumulonimbus clouds of a squall line of thunderstorms reflect the signal over the top, like an extremely tall radio tower. Conversely, heavy rain may attenuate the range of even local stations. ATSC digital television is affected by wind and trees (even if not surrounding the transmitter or receiver locations), apparently related to its use of 8VSB modulation instead of COFDM.\n\nAM broadcasting stations have different issues, due to using the mediumwave band. Broadcast range in these stations is determined by ground conductivity, and the proper use and maintenance of grounding radials which act as a ground plane for the mast radiators used. Skywaves reflect off the ionosphere at a much greater distance above Earth's surface at night. This in turn causes mediumwave, most shortwave, and even longwave stations to travel much further at night, which is the side of the Earth where the solar wind pulls the ionosphere (and magnetosphere) away from the planet, instead of pushing toward it as on the day side. Because of this, many AM stations must cut power or go off-air at night, except for the very earliest stations still grandfathered on clear channels. Border blaster stations in northern Mexico also used this effect, along with very high-power transmitters, to extend their nighttime broadcast ranges well over the US/Mexico border and across most of the United States.\n\nVarious broadcast relay stations can help to extend a station's area by retransmitting them on the same or another channel. What is usually called a repeater in amateur radio is called a broadcast translator (different channel) or booster (same channel) in American broadcasting, or the much broader category or rebroadcasters in Canadian broadcasting (which includes more than just the low-power broadcasting used in the U.S.) Boosters are used only within the broadcast range of the parent station, and serve the same function locally as regional and national single-frequency networks do in Europe. Distributed transmission has also undergone tests in the U.S., but to preserve stations' market share in their home media markets, these will be limited to the broadcast area of a single large station. Satellite radio, which is designed for use without a dish, also uses ground repeaters in large cities due to the many obstructions their high-rise buildings cause to the many current and potential customers that are concentrated there.\n\nThose at the edge of a station's broadcast range will typically notice static in an analog broadcast, while error correction will keep a digital signal clear until it hits the cliff effect and suddenly disappears completely. FM stations may flip back and forth (sometimes annoyingly rapidly when moving) due to the capture effect, while AM stations (including TV video) may overlay or fade with each other.\n\nFM stereo will tend to get static more quickly than the monophonic sound due to its use of subcarriers, so stations may choose to extend the usable part of their range by disabling the stereo generator. Listeners can also choose to disable stereo decoding on the receiver, though loss of the stereo pilot tone causes this to happen automatically. Because this tends to turn on and off when at the threshold of reception, and the threshold is often set too low by the manufacturer's product design, manually disabling this when at the edge of the broadcast range prevents the annoying noisy-stereo/quiet-mono switching.\n\nThe same is true of analog TV stereo and second audio programs, and even for color TV, all of which use subcarriers. Radio reading services and other subcarrier services will also tend to suffer from dropouts sooner than the main station.\n\nTechnologies are available that allow for switching to a different signal carrying the same radio program when leaving the broadcast range of a station. Radio Data System allows for switching to a different FM or station with the same identifier, or even to (but not necessarily from) an AM station. Satellite radio also is designed to switch seamlessly between repeaters and/or satellite when moving outside the range of one or the other. HD Radio switches back to the analog signal as a fallback when the edge of the digital range is encountered, but the success of this from the listener's perspective depends on how well the station's broadcast engineer has synchronized the two.\n\nDigital transmissions require less power to be received clearly than analog ones. The exact figure for various modes depends on how robust the signal is made to begin with, such as modulation, guard interval, and forward error correction. In each of these three factors, the caveat is that a higher data signaling rate means a tradeoff with reduced broadcast range. The hierarchical modulation used on DVB is a unique case, which reduces the range of the full-definition signal, in exchange for an increase in the usable range of the lower-definition part of the video.\n\nDigital stations in North America usually are operated by the same groups as the analog side, and thus operate their own independent facilities. Because of this, the FCC requires U.S. TV stations to replicate their analog coverage with their digital signal as well. However, ATSC digital TV only requires about one-fifth the amount of power to reach the same area on the same channel as analog does. For HD Radio, the figure is only one percent of the station's analog wattage, in part because it is an in-band on-channel method, which uses sidebands that must prevent interference to adjacent channels, especially for older or cheaper receivers which have insufficient sensitivity and/or selectivity.\n"}
{"id": "22311914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22311914", "title": "Building Energy Codes Program", "text": "Building Energy Codes Program\n\nThe U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE's) Building Energy Codes Program (BECP) was established in 1991 (originally called the Building Standards and Guidelines Program), with its activities defined by the Energy Conservation and Production Act (ECPA) (Pub. L. No 94-385), as amended, and the Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA) (Pub. L. No 110-140). These statutes direct DOE to participate in industry processes to develop model building energy codes, issue determinations as to whether updated codes result in energy savings, and provide technical assistance to states to implement and comply with the codes. The BECP is part of DOE’s Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Building Technologies Office.\n\nBECP focuses on three key building energy code areas: model code development, adoption, and compliance.\n\nDOE is directed by statute to review the technical and economic basis of building energy codes and participate in processes for their review and modification, including adoption of all technologically feasible and economically justified energy efficiency measures.\n\nDOE is directed by statute to provide technical assistance to states implementing building energy codes, including the adoption of all technologically feasible and economically justified efficiency measures, as well as encouraging states to adopt updated building energy codes.\n\nDOE is directed by statute to provide technical assistance to states implementing energy codes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32265435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32265435", "title": "Choice editing", "text": "Choice editing\n\nChoice editing refers to the active process of controlling or limiting the choices available to consumers so as to drive to an end goal, specifically by banning things or imposing punitive taxation. The term has gained currency in discussions about sustainability.\n\nThe Sustainable Development Commission defined \"choice editing\" as \"...shifting the field of choice for mainstream consumers: cutting out unnecessarily damaging products and getting real sustainable choices on the shelves.\" The process involves \"...[removing] environmentally offensive products from commercial consideration or [making] such products expensive to use.\" Choice editing is a direct control of the impact from consumption and aims to only provide sustainable products in the market. Not only products can be edited out or replaced, but also product components, processes and business models.\n\nChoice editing is nothing new. It has been around through standards, taxes, tariffs and subsidies that made certain products more desirable for consumers than others. The Sustainable Development Roundtable in 2006 announced that in the past choice editing was a major driver of “green” innovations, which suggests its potential to increase sustainable consumption.\n\nGovernments and policy makers can edit citizens’ choices through laws, taxes, subsidies and voluntary bans. Businesses can edit choice by removing products from their range that might have negative impact on health or environment. Additionally, they can control their value chain and together with suppliers, processors and retailers develop solutions for more sustainable products and processes. A close collaboration along the value chain is important as the product’s environmental and social performance reflects the whole life cycle assessment. \n\nRetailers can actively \"edit out\" choices by not stocking products that they, or the state, consider to have an unacceptable environmental impact, thus being unsustainable options. Moreover, retailers can edit choice by requiring their suppliers to meet certain criteria.\n\nThe Australian government phased out incandescent light bulbs by 2010 as a step towards preventing possible electricity shortages and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. They were replaced by compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) and LED lamps. The expected consequences are reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 4 million tons per year from 2012. The European Union is following Australia’s example by removing all incandescent bulbs by 2012. Many other countries such as Canada, the United States and Indonesia will do so as well.\n\nHenkel took over the Brazilian company Alba in 2006. Some of the company’s adhesive products contained toluene, which was misused by young people for glue sniffing. After the takeover, Henkel developed a toluene-free formula and by 2007 introduced the toluene-free brand Cascola. \n\nAdidas supports its suppliers in order to reduce their environmental impact by developing training materials, technical guidelines and workshop tailored to each supplier’s special need. \n\nThis way Adidas actively edits the environmental impact of its supply chain.\n\nTijin is a Japanese company operating in the chemical industry. They edited their business processes by developing a recycling system for polyester. This reduces energy and resource use, CO2 emission and waste. Tijin established a global network with companies that collect polyester garments for recycling and support the expansion of products containing recycled polyester.\n\nAs assessed by Belz and Peattie (2009), Prof. Dr Claus Hipp's philosophy of appropriate corporate behavior covering market, employees, the state and nature makes his baby foods company highly coveted by consumers. The company's ethics commission believes in economic fair play that can match the consumer's willingness to pay while processing the highest quality of organic raw materials that are sustainably grown. While many manufacturing companies' sustainability goals are towards the nature and the environment, Hipp takes a long-term ambition to survive in nature, as a part of it.\n\nAn often raised ethical question in this matter is, whether consumers should choose freely or not. Should items be simply removed from their choices? Who decides what is removed and why? Some argue that instead of choice editing, labeling should provide information about the social and environmental performance of a product. Based on that, consumers are free to choose between sustainable and unsustainable products themselves.\n\nThe opposite opinion is held by Tim Lang, professor of food policy at City University London and a prominent figure in Britain's food industry. In an interview with \"The Guardian\" journalist Leo Hickman, Lang argues that the consumer need not be bothered in the supermarket aisle to agonise over complex issues such as animal welfare, carbon footprints, workers' rights and excessive packaging, often without any meaningful data on the label to inform their decision-making. Lang instead suggested that the manufacturers and retailers should take more responsibility by making most of these decisions on consumer's behalf before the product even reaches the shelves. This would in turn allow the consumer to avoid endorsing products that are damaging to the environment as well as the society. \n\nFurthermore, there is still no agreement on who defines if a product is sustainable or unsustainable. Therefore, decisions made about the availability of a product can cause conflicts between the different actors like government, policy makers, businesses and consumers as they might have varying views concerning the sustainable or unsustainable nature of a product.\n"}
{"id": "4940645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4940645", "title": "Convention between Italy and Turkey (1932)", "text": "Convention between Italy and Turkey (1932)\n\nThe Convention between Italy and Turkey, signed in Ankara on January 4, 1932, by the Italian Plenipotentiary, Ambassador Pompeo Aloisi, and the Turkish foreign minister Tevfik Rüştü Aras, settled a dispute that had arisen in the aftermath of the Treaty of Lausanne of 1923, about the sovereignty over a number of small islets and the delimitation of the territorial waters between the coast of Anatolia and the island of Kastellórizo, which was an Italian possession since 1921.\n\nThrough the convention, the islets situated inside the bay of the harbour of Kastellorizo, along with the islands of Rho and Strongili further off, were assigned to Italy, while all other islets in the surrounding area were assigned to Turkey.\n\nMoreover, the Italian Government recognised the sovereignty of Turkey over the Aegean islet of Kara Ada (Greek: \"Arcos\"), situated in front of the town of Bodrum.\n\nIn an Appendix signed in December of the same year, the two countries agreed to extend the convention delimiting the sea border between the Anatolian coast and the Italian Dodecanese. This was done by defining thirty five points which were equidistant between Italian and Turkish territory. \n\nThe validity of the appendix became a political issue in the context of the Aegean dispute in 1996, after the Imia/Kardak crisis. The Turkish government has rejected it as legally invalid, on the grounds that it was not deposited at the League of Nations in Geneva. This, according to the Turkish view, means that the sovereignty over an unknown number of small islets and rocks in the Dodecanese may be still undefined. However, the validity of the convention itself, with respect to Kara Ada and the Kastellórizo region, is not under dispute.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257908", "title": "Copyright Board of Canada", "text": "Copyright Board of Canada\n\nThe Copyright Board of Canada () is an economic regulatory body empowered to establish, either mandatorily or at the request of an interested party, the royalties to be paid for the use of copyrighted works, when the administration of such copyright is entrusted to a collective-administration society. The Board also has the right to supervise agreements between users and licensing bodies and issues licences when the copyright owner cannot be located.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52665947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52665947", "title": "Correctional Custody Unit", "text": "Correctional Custody Unit\n\nThe Correctional Custody Unit (CCU or \"Remotivation Platoon\") is a disciplinary program in the United States Marine Corps under which \"salvageable\" offenders are provided \"re-education, refocusing and re-greening\". The intent of the program is to resolve disciplinary issues without more serious recourse like confinement to the brig or a court martial.\n\nIn 2002, it was reported that three Marine bases had a CCU: Camp Hansen (Okinawa), Camp Lejeune (North Carolina), and Camp Pendleton (California).\n"}
{"id": "1988388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988388", "title": "Corrupt and Illegal Practices Prevention Act 1883", "text": "Corrupt and Illegal Practices Prevention Act 1883\n\nThe Corrupt and Illegal Practices Prevention Act 1883 (46 & 47 Vict c. 51) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. It was a continuation of policy to make voters free from the intimidation of landowners and politicians. It criminalised attempts to bribe voters and standardised the amount that could be spent on election expenses.\n\nDespite the Ballot Act 1872, William Ewart Gladstone's Second Ministry (1880-85) knew that to make voting less corrupt, certain measures were required to eradicate intimidation and bribery. The act meant that the expenses of candidates were published and could be measured against a limit as to how much could be spent on \"political campaigns\". It laid down rules for the conduct of parliamentary candidates, including a strict limit on expenses. The limit was set at £710 for the first 2,000 voters in the candidate's constituency, and then £40 for every additional 1,000 voters. Note, also, that each candidate was limited to just one party agent (though in exceptional circumstances the candidate did have the right to petition parliament for more). Strict record keeping was required as proof that expenses were not being exceeded. Poorer men could also become parliamentary candidates and under the Act stiff penalties were imposed on those breaking it such as heavy fines and imprisonment.\n\nAlthough it did not entirely remove corruption from the voting system, it strengthened the Corrupt Practices Act 1854 and was aided by a number of disenfranchised, small boroughs.\n\nThe Parliamentary Elections Corrupt Practices Act 1885 clarified that an employer was legally permitted to give paid time off from work to allow employees to vote, so long as this was given equally to all voters and not along party lines.\n\nThe Act, except section 42, was repealed by the Representation of the People Act 1949 (c.68), ss.175 & 176(2)&(3) & Sch.9; and the Election Commissioners Act 1949 (c.90), s.21 & Sch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43051603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43051603", "title": "Danish Vacation Law", "text": "Danish Vacation Law\n\nThe Danish Vacation Law () is a Danish law regulating vacation time for employees. A similar law exists in Norway.\n\nThe Danish law on vacation time is administered by the Agency for Retention and Recruitment (\"Styrelsen for Fastholdelse og Rekruttering\"), which is part of the Ministry of Labour (\"Beskæftigelsesministeriet\") and by a range of other authorities, including the vacation pay scheme, \"FerieKonto\". The Act applies to most Danish employees, but not, for example, to civil servants. A number of the provisions of the Act may be waived under collective bargaining. The law states, among other things, that \"an employee shall be entitled to 2.08 days of paid vacation for each month of employment.\"\n\nA characteristic feature of the Danish vacation law is that it distinguishes between the accrual and the taking of vacation time. All workers covered by the law have the right to 25 vacation days (five weeks), but only those who have accrued vacation time are entitled to paid vacation time.\n\nSo-called \"floating holidays\" are not regulated by the Act but are agreed on between employer and employee, either individually or through collective bargaining.\n\nThe law in Denmark implements part of European Union directive 93/104/EC of 1993, for example Article 7, which states:\nMember States shall take the measures necessary to ensure that every worker is entitled to paid annual leave of at least four weeks in accordance with the conditions for entitlement to, and granting of, such leave laid down by national legislation and/or practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "6394671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6394671", "title": "Duty to protect", "text": "Duty to protect\n\nThe duty to protect is the responsibility of a mental health professional to protect patients and others from foreseeable harm. If a client makes statements that suggest suicidal or homicidal ideation, the clinician has the responsibility to take steps to warn intended victims, and if necessary, initiate involuntary commitment.\n\nThe duty to protect was established by \"Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of California\", which has been widely adopted by other states. This case determined that the clinician has the duty to warn an identifiable victim. \"Ewing v. Goldstein\" extended the duty to protect to include acting upon the statements of third parties that indicate possible threat, and determined that it was not sufficiently discharged by initiating involuntary commitment; warning identifiable victims is also necessary.\n\nThe 42 C.F.R. $2.20 and Hasenei v U.S., 541F. Supp. 999 (D.Md 1982). The federal law prohibits disclosure unless you obtain a court order or you can make the report without identifying the individual who threatens to commit the crime as a patient.\n\n"}
{"id": "12224435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12224435", "title": "Eyewitness identification", "text": "Eyewitness identification\n\nIn eyewitness identification, in criminal law, evidence is received from a witness \"who has actually seen an event and can so testify in court\".\n\nAlthough it has been observed, by the late U.S. Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan, Jr., in his dissent to \"Watkins v. Sowders\", that witness testimony is evidence that \"juries seem most receptive to, and not inclined to discredit\". Justice Brennan also observed that \"At least since \"United States v. Wade\", 388 U.S. 218 (1967), the Court has recognized the inherently suspect qualities of eyewitness identification evidence, and described the evidence as \"notoriously unreliable\". The Innocence Project, a non-profit organization which has worked on using DNA evidence in order to reopen criminal convictions that were made before DNA testing was available as a tool in criminal investigations, states that \"Eyewitness misidentification is the single greatest cause of wrongful convictions nationwide, playing a role in more than 75% of convictions overturned through DNA testing.\" In the United Kingdom, the Criminal Law Review Committee, writing in 1971, stated that cases of mistaken identification \"constitute by far the greatest cause of actual or possible wrong convictions\".\n\nHistorically, eyewitness testimony had what Brennan described as \"a powerful impact on juries\", who noted in his dissent that \"All the evidence points rather strikingly to the conclusion that there is almost nothing more convincing [to a jury] than a live human being who takes the stand, points a finger at the defendant, and says 'That's the one!'\" Another commentator observed that the eyewitness identification of a person as a perpetrator was persuasive to jurors even when \"far outweighed by evidence of innocence.\"\n\nThe Innocence Project has facilitated the exoneration of 214 men who were convicted of crimes they did not commit, as a result of faulty eyewitness evidence. A number of these cases have received substantial attention from the media.\n\nJennifer Thompson's case is one example: She was a college student in North Carolina in 1984, when a man broke into her apartment, put a knife to her throat, and raped her. According to her own account, Ms. Thompson studied her rapist throughout the incident with great determination to memorize his face. \"I studied every single detail on the rapist's face. I looked at his hairline; I looked for scars, for tattoos, for anything that would help me identify him. When and if I survived the attack, I was going to make sure that he was put in prison and he was going to rot.\"\n\nMs. Thompson went to the police station later that same day to work up a [composite sketch] of her attacker, relying on what she believed was her detailed memory. Several days later, the police constructed a photographic lineup, and she selected Ronald Junior Cotton from the lineup. She later testified against him at trial. She was positive it was him, without any doubt in her mind. \"I was sure. I knew it. I had picked the right guy, and he was going to go to jail. If there was the possibility of a death sentence, I wanted him to die. I wanted to flip the switch.\"\n\nBut she was wrong, as DNA results eventually showed. It turns out she was even presented with her actual attacker during a second trial proceeding a year after the attack, but swore she'd never seen the man before in her life. She remained convinced that Ronald Cotton was her attacker, and it was not until much later, after Mr. Cotton had served 11 years in prison for a crime he did not commit, that she realized that she had made a grave mistake.\n\nJennifer Thompson's memory had failed her, resulting in a substantial injustice. It took definitive DNA testing to shake her confidence, but she now knows that despite her confidence in her identification, it was wrong. Cases like Ms. Thompson's prompted the emergence of a field within the social sciences dedicated to the study of eyewitness memory and the causes underlying its frequently recurring failures.\n\nOne of the primary reasons that eyewitnesses to crimes have been shown to make mistakes in their recollection of perpetrator identities, is the police procedures used to collect eyewitness evidence. Various factors have been discovered to make police identification procedures more or less reliable as a test of eyewitness memory, and these procedural mechanisms have been termed \"system variables\" by social scientists researching this systemic problem. \"System variables are those that affect the accuracy of eyewitness identifications and over which the criminal justice system has (or can have) control.\"\n\nAcknowledging the importance of these procedural precautions recommended by Dr. Gary L. Wells and other leading eyewitness researchers, the Department of Justice published a set of best practices for conducting police lineups in 1999.\n\nOne of the most obvious causes of inaccurate identifications resulting from police lineups is the use of a lineup that does not include the actual perpetrator of the crime. In other words, police suspect one person of having committed a crime, when in fact it was committed by an unknown other person who does not appear in the lineup. When the actual perpetrator is not included in the lineup, research has shown that the police suspect faces a significantly heightened risk of being incorrectly identified as the culprit.\n\nAccording to eyewitness researchers, the most likely cause of this increased occurrence of misidentification is what is termed the \"relative judgment\" process. That is, when viewing a group of photos or individuals, a witness tends to select the person who looks \"most like\" the perpetrator. When the actual perpetrator is not present in the lineup, the police suspect is often the person who best fits the description, hence his or her selection for the lineup.\n\nGiven the common, good faith occurrence of police lineups that do not include the actual perpetrator of a crime, it becomes particularly critical that other procedural measures are undertaken to minimize the likelihood of an inaccurate identification.\n\nFollowing this finding that eyewitnesses are prone to making \"relative judgments\" when faced with a lineup that does not contain the actual perpetrator, researchers hypothesized that instructing the witness prior to the lineup might serve to mitigate the occurrence of error. In fact, studies have shown that simply instructing a witness that the perpetrator \"may or may not be present\" in the lineup can dramatically reduce the likelihood that a witness will identify an innocent person.\n\nEyewitness researchers know that the police lineup is, at center, a psychological experiment designed to test the ability of a witness to recall the identity of the perpetrator of a crime. As such, it is recommended that police lineups be conducted in double-blind fashion, like any scientific experiment, in order to avert the possibility that inadvertent cues from the lineup administrator will suggest the \"correct\" answer and thereby subvert the independent memory of the witness. The occurrence of \"experimenter bias\" is well documented across the sciences, and as such, researchers recommend that police lineups be conducted by someone not connected to the case and unaware of the identity of the suspect.\n\nAsking an eyewitness their confidence of their selection with a doubleblind process can improve the accuracy of eyewitness selection.\n\nOnce police have identified a suspect, they will typically place that individual into either a live or photo lineup, along with a set of \"fillers.\" Researchers and the DOJ guidelines recommend, as a preliminary matter, that the fillers be \"known innocent\" non-suspects. This way, if a witness selects someone other than the suspect, the unreliability of that witness's memory is revealed. In that respect, the lineup procedure serves as a test of the witness's memory, with clear \"wrong\" answers. If more than one suspect is included in the lineupas in the 2006 Duke University lacrosse case, for examplethen the lineup becomes tantamount to a multiple choice test with no wrong answer.\n\nThese \"known innocent\" fillers should be selected to match the original description provided by the witness. \n\nIf a neutral observer is able to select the suspect from the lineup based on the recorded description by the witnessthat is, if the suspect is the only one present who clearly fits the descriptionthen the procedure cannot be relied upon as a test of the witness's memory of the actual perpetrator. Researchers have noted that this rule is particularly important when the witness's description includes unique features, such as tattoos, scars, unusual hairstyles, etc.\n\nResearchers have also suggested that the manner in which photos or individuals chosen for a lineup are presented can also be key to the reliability of an identification. Specifically, leading researchers suggest that lineups should be conducted sequentially, rather than simultaneously. In other words, each member of a given lineup should be presented to a witness by himself, rather than showing a group of photos or individuals to a witness together. According to social scientists, use of this procedure will minimize the effects of the \"relative judgment\" process discussed above, by encouraging witnesses to compare each person individually to his or her independent memory of the identity of the perpetrator. According to researchers, use of a simultaneous procedure makes it more likely that witnesses will pick the person who merely looks the most like the perpetrator from the group, which introduces an acute danger when the actual perpetrator is not present in the lineup. A pilot study was conducted in Minnesota in 2006 to test this hypothesis, and the results show the sequential procedure to be superior as a means of improving identification accuracy and reducing the occurrence of false identifications.\n\nIn 2005, the Illinois state legislature commissioned a pilot project to test reform measures recommended by social scientists to increase the accuracy and reliability of police identification procedures. The study was conducted by the Chicago police department, and an initial report purported to show that the status quo was superior to procedures recommended by researchers in reducing false identifications, in reliance on their decades of scientific research. The mainstream media spotlighted the report, including a front-page article in the New York Times, suggesting that three decades' worth of otherwise uncontroverted social science had been called into question.\n\nCriticism of the report and its underlying methodology surfaced shortly after its release. One critic averred that \"the design of the [Illinois pilot] project contained so many fundamental flaws that it is fair to wonder whether its sole purpose was to inject confusion into the debate about the efficacy of sequential double-blind procedures and to thereby prevent adoption of the reforms.\" Seeking information on the data and methodology underlying the report, the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers (NACDL) filed a lawsuit under the Freedom of Information Act seeking the unreleased information. That suit remains pending.\n\nIn July 2007, a \"blue ribbon\" panel of eminent psychologists, including one Nobel Laureate, released a report examining the methodology and claims of the Illinois Report, which appears to have confirmed the suspicions of earlier critics. Researchers from Harvard, Princeton, Carnegie Mellon, and other academic institutions examined the study and reported that the study was infected with a fundamental flaw that had \"devastating consequences\" to its scientific merit, and which \"guaranteed that most outcomes would be difficult or impossible to interpret.\" Their primary critique was an observed \"confounding\" of variables, rendering it impossible to draw meaningful comparisons between the methods tested.\n\nThe confound that the critics of the Illinois study criticized was the following: the Illinois study compared the traditional simultaneous method of lineup presentation with the sequential double-blind method recommended by academics like Gary Wells. The traditional method is not conducted double-blind (meaning that the person presenting the lineup does not know which person or photo is the suspect). The critics claim that the results cannot be compared because one method was not double-blind while the other was double-blind. This criticism ignores the fact that the mandate of the Illinois legislature was to compare the traditional method with the academic method. More significantly, as an experiment to determine whether or not sequential double-blind administration would be superior to the simultaneous methods used by most police departments, the Illinois study provides an abundance of useful data which, at this point, seems to show that neither of the methods used \"in that experiment\" is superior to the other. What it does not provide is a clear reason why, because the effect of \"double-blind\" was not tested for the simultaneous lineups.\nThe Innocence Project Lineup studies mentioned here previously were never funded, largely because the expected grant funds were withdrawn in connection with economic difficulties. A separate grant was submitted to the Department of Justice in March 2009 by the independent Urban Institute to study simultaneous/sequential lineups in actual police departments in Connecticut and Washington, D.C. That study had been solicited by DOJ, but was unexpectedly cancelled in August 2009 due to \"a low likelihood of success.\" It is unclear at this time what the DOJ was thinking when they canceled the grant. The Urban Institute is seeking other funding.\n\nAny feedback from the lineup administrator following an identification can have a dramatic effect on a witness's sense of his or her own accuracy. A highly tentative \"maybe\" can be artificially transformed into \"100% confident\" with a simple comment such as \"Good, you identified the actual suspect.\" Mere preparation for cross-examination, including simply thinking about how to answer questions regarding the identification, has also been shown to artificially inflate an eyewitness's sense of her own level of certainty; the same is true when a witness simply learns that another witness identified the same person. This malleability of eyewitness confidence has been shown to be far more pronounced in cases where the witness turns out to be wrong.\n\nWhen there is a positive correlation between eyewitness confidence and accuracy, it tends to occur when a witness's confidence is measured \"immediately\" following the identification, and prior to any confirming feedback. In keeping with this finding, researchers suggest that a statement of a witness's confidence, in her own words, be taken immediately following an identification. Any future statement of confidence or certainty is widely regarded as unreliable, given the host of intervening factors that have been shown to distort it as time passes.\n\nSocial scientists have also identified a set of \"estimator variables\"that is, factors connected to the witness herself or to the circumstances surrounding her observation of the individual she would later attempt to identifythat research has shown to make an identification more or less reliable.\n\nOne of the most-studied topics in this area is the cross-racial identification, namely when the witness and the perpetrator are of different races. A recent meta-analysis of 25 years of research shows a definitive, statistically significant \"cross-race impairment,\" where members of any one race have a clear deficiency for accurately identifying members of another race. The effect appears to be true regardless of the races in question. Various hypotheses have been tested to explain this deficiency in identification accuracy, including any racial animosity on the part of the viewer, and exposure level to the other race in question. Racist attitudes have not been observed to have any effect on the impairment; exposure level has been observed to have a minute effect in some studies, yet the cross-race impairment itself has been observed to substantially overshadow all other variables, even when testing people who have been surrounded by members of the other race for their entire lives.\n\nThe effect of stress on eyewitness recall is one of the most widely misunderstood of the factors commonly at play in a crime witness scenario. Studies have consistently shown that the presence of stress has a dramatically negative impact on the accuracy of eyewitness memory, a phenomenon which is often not appreciated by witnesses themselves. In a seminal study on this topic, Yale psychiatrist Charles Morgan and a team of researchers tested the ability of trained, military survival school students to identify their interrogators following low- and high-stress scenarios. In each condition, subjects were face-to-face with an interrogator for 40 minutes in a well-lit room. The following day, each participant was asked to select his or her interrogator out of either a live or photo lineup. In the case of the photo spreadthe most common form of police lineup in the U.S.those subjected to the high-stress scenario falsely identified someone other than the interrogator in 68% of cases, compared to only 12% from the low-stress scenario.\n\nThe presence of a weapon has also been shown to diminish the accuracy of eyewitness recall, often referred to as the \"weapon-focus effect\". This phenomenon has been studied at length by eyewitness researchers, and the findings have consistently demonstrated that eyewitnesses recall the identity of a perpetrator less accurately when a weapon was present during the incident. Eminent psychologist Elizabeth Loftus used eye-tracking technology to monitor this effect, and found that the presence of a weapon draws a witness's visual focus away from other things, such as the perpetrator's face.\n\nIt is thought that memory degrades over time, some researchers state that the \"rate\" at which eyewitness memory declines is swift, and the drop-off is sharp, in contrast to the more common view that memory degrades slowly and consistently as time passes. The \"forgetting curve\" of eyewitness memory has been shown to be \"Ebbinghausian\" in nature: it begins to drop off sharply within 20 minutes following the initial encoding, and continues to do so exponentially until it begins to level off around the second day at a dramatically reduced level of accuracy. And as noted above, eyewitness memory is increasingly susceptible to contamination as time passes.\nHowever, a study unrelated to eyewitness identification in criminal cases reports that individuals have a much better memory for faces than for numbers. This would indicate that not all eyewitness identifications are equal. An identification where the eyewitness clearly saw the face would be more reliable than one based on a combination of factors such as ethnicity, estimated age, estimated height, estimated weight, general body type, hair color, dress, etc.\n\nA variety of other factors have been observed to affect the reliability of an eyewitness identification. The elderly and young children tend to recall faces less accurately, as compared to young adults. Intelligence, education, gender, and race, on the other hand, appear to have no effect (with the exception of the cross-race effect, as above).\n\nThe opportunity that a witness has to view the perpetrator and the level of attention paid have also been shown to affect the reliability of an identification. Attention paid, however, appears to play a more substantial role than other factors like lighting, distance, or duration. For example, when witnesses observe the theft of an item known to be of high value, studies have shown that their higher degree of attention can result in a higher level of identification accuracy (assuming the absence of contravening factors, such as the presence of a weapon, stress, etc.).\n\nThe legal standards addressing the treatment of eyewitness testimony as evidence in criminal trials vary widely across the United States on issues ranging from the admissibility of eyewitness testimony as evidence, the admissibility and scope of expert testimony on the factors affecting its reliability, and the propriety of jury instructions on the same factors. In New Jersey, generally considered a leading court with respect to criminal law, a report was prepared by a special master during a remand proceeding in the case of \"New Jersey v. Henderson\" which comprehensively researched published literature and heard expert testimony with respect to eyewitness identification. Based on the master's report the New Jersey court issued a decision on August 22, 2011 which requires closer examination of the reliability of eyewitness testimony by trial courts in New Jersey. \"Perry v. New Hampshire\", a case which raised similar issues, was decided January 11, 2012 by the U.S. Supreme Court. which in an 8–1 decision decided that judicial examination of eye-witness testimony was required only in the case of police misconduct.Held: The Due Process Clause does not require a preliminary judicial inquiry into the reliability of an eyewitness identification when the identification was not procured under unnecessarily suggestive circumstances arranged by law enforcement.The preeminent role of the jury in evaluating questionable evidence was cited by the court.\n\nDetectives interrogating children in the court perhaps lack the necessary training to make them effective perhaps “ more work needs to be done in finding effective ways of helping appropriate members of the legal profession to develop skills and understanding in child development and in talking with children” \nThe federal due process standard governing the admissibility of eyewitness evidence is set forth in the U.S. Supreme Court case of \"Manson v. Brathwaite\". Under the federal standard, if an identification procedure is shown to be unnecessarily suggestive, the court must consider whether certain independent indicia of reliability are present, and if so, weigh those factors against the corrupting effect of the flawed police procedure. Within that framework, the court should determine whether, under the totality of the circumstances, the identification appears to be reliable. If not, the identification evidence must be excluded from evidence under controlling federal precedent.\n\nCertain criticisms have been waged against the \"Manson\" standard, however. According to legal scholars, \"the rule of decision set out in \"Manson\" has failed to meet the Court's objective of furthering fairness and reliability.\" For example, the Court requires that the confidence of the witness be considered as an indicator of the reliability of the identification evidence. As noted above, however, extensive studies in the social sciences have shown that confidence is unreliable as a predictor of accuracy. Social scientists and legal scholars have also expressed concern that \"the [\"Manson\"] list as a whole is substantially incomplete,\" thereby opening the courthouse doors to the admission of unreliable evidence.\n\nExpert testimony on the factors affecting the reliability of eyewitness evidence is allowed in some U.S. jurisdictions, and not in others. In most states, it is left to the discretion of the trial court judge. States generally allowing it include California, Arizona, Colorado, Hawaii, Tennessee (by a 2007 state Supreme Court decision), Ohio, and Kentucky. States generally prohibiting it include Pennsylvania and Missouri. Many states have less clear guidelines under appellate court precedent, such as Mississippi, New York, New Hampshire, and New Jersey. It is often difficult to tell whether expert testimony has been allowed in a given state, since if the trial court lets the expert testify, there is generally no record created. On the other hand, if the expert is not allowed, that becomes a ground of appeal if the defendant is convicted. That means that most cases that generate appellate records are cases only in which the expert was disallowed (and the defendant was convicted).\n\nIn those states where expert testimony on eyewitness reliability is not allowed, it is typically on grounds that the various factors are within the common sense of the average juror, and thus not the proper topic of expert testimony. To further expand jurors are \" likely to put faith in the expert's testimony or even to overestimate the significance of results that the expert reports\"\n\nPolling data and other surveys of juror knowledge appear to contradict this proposition, however, revealing substantial misconceptions on a number of discrete topics that have been the subject of significant study by social scientists.\n\nCriminal defense lawyers often propose detailed jury instructions as a mechanism to offset undue reliance on eyewitness testimony, when factors shown to undermine its reliability are present in a given case. Many state courts prohibit instructions detailing specific eyewitness reliability factors but will allow a generic instruction, while others find detailed instructions on specific factors to be critical to a fair trial. California allows instructions when police procedures are in conflict with established best practices, for example, and New Jersey mandates an instruction on the cross-race effect when the identification is central to the case and uncorroborated by other evidence.\n\nAlthough instructions informing jurors of certain eyewitness identification mistakes are a plausible solution, recent discoveries in research have shown that this gives a neutral effect, \"studies suggest that general jury instructions informing jurors of the unreliability of eyewitness identifications are not effective in helping jurors to evaluate the reliability of the identification before them\"\n\nMost identification procedures are regulated by Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 Code D.\n\nIn any cases where identification may be an issue, a record must be made of the description of the suspect first given by a witness. This should be disclosed to the suspect or his solicitor. If the ability of a witness to make a positive visual identification is likely to be an issue, one of the formal identification procedures in Pace Code D, para 3.5–3.10 should be used, unless it would serve no useful purpose (e.g. because the suspect was known to the witnesses or if there was no reasonable possibility that a witness could make an identification at all).\n\nThe formal identification procedures are:\n\nIf there is no particular suspect, a witness may be shown photographs or be taken to a neighbourhood in the hope that he recognises the perpetrator. Photographs should be shown to potential witnesses individually (to prevent collusion) and once a positive identification has been made, no other witnesses should be shown the photograph of the suspect.\n\nUnder s. 78 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, the trial judge may exclude evidence if it would have an adverse effect on the fairness of the proceedings if it were admitted. Breach of Code D does \"not\" automatically mean that the evidence will be excluded, but the judge should consider whether a breach has occurred and what the effect of the breach was on the defendant. If a judge decides to admit evidence where there has been a breach, he should give reasons. and in a jury trial, the jury should normally be told \"that an identification procedure enables suspects to put the reliability of an eye-witness’s identification to the test, that the suspect has lost the benefit of that safeguard, and that they should take account of that fact in their assessment of the whole case, giving it such weight as they think fit\". Informal identifications made through social media such as Facebook (often in breach of Code D), pose particular problems for the criminal courts.\nWhere the identification of the defendant is in issue (not merely the honesty of the identifier or the fact that the defendant matched a particular description), and the prosecution rely substantially or wholly on the correctness of one or more identifications of the defendant, the judge should give a direction to the jury:\n\nLargely in response to the mounting list of wrongful convictions discovered to have resulted from faulty eyewitness evidence, an effort is gaining momentum in the United States to reform police procedures and the various legal rules addressing the treatment of eyewitness evidence in criminal trials. Social scientists are committing more resources to studying and understanding the mechanisms of human memory in the eyewitness context, and lawyers, scholars, and legislators are devoting increasing attention to the fact that faulty eyewitness evidence remains the leading cause of wrongful conviction in the United States.\n\nReform measures mandating that police use established best practices when collecting eyewitness evidence have been implemented in New Jersey, North Carolina, Wisconsin, West Virginia, and Minnesota. Bills on the same topic have been proposed in Georgia, New Mexico, California, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New York, Vermont, and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "220469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220469", "title": "Ford v Quebec (AG)", "text": "Ford v Quebec (AG)\n\nFord v Quebec (AG), [1988] 2 SCR 712 is a landmark Supreme Court of Canada decision in which the Court struck down part of the \"Charter of the French Language\", commonly known as \"Bill 101\". This law had restricted the use of commercial signs written in languages other than French. The court ruled that Bill 101 violated the freedom of expression as guaranteed in the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\".\n\nThe appeal, launched by the government of Quebec, consolidated many cases initiated by Montreal-area merchants such as Montreal florist Hyman Singer and West Island wool shop owner Valerie Ford. Following complaints, the Office québécois de la langue française had instructed them to inform and serve their customers in French and replace their bilingual French and English signs with unilingual French ones. They had been fined for violation of the \"Charter of the French Language\" and decided to fight the case in court with the backing of Alliance Quebec. The Supreme Court of Canada upheld the decisions of the Quebec Superior Court and the Quebec Court of Appeal.\n\nIn late 1989, shortly after the Supreme Court's decision, Premier of Quebec Robert Bourassa's Liberal Party of Quebec government passed Bill 178, making minor amendments to the \"Charter of the French Language\". Recognizing that the amendments did not follow the Supreme Court's ruling, the provincial legislature invoked section 33 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" (also known as the notwithstanding clause) to shield Bill 178 from review by courts for five years.\n\nThis move was politically controversial, both among Quebec nationalists, who were unhappy with the changes to the \"Charter of the French Language\"; and among English-speaking Quebecers, who opposed the use of the notwithstanding clause. Tension over this issue was a contributing factor to the failure of the Meech Lake Accord, among other political repercussions.\n\nIn 1993, the \"Charter of the French Language\" was amended in the manner suggested by the Supreme Court of Canada. Bill 86 was enacted by the Bourassa government to amend the \"Charter\". It now states that French must be predominant on commercial signs, but a language other than French may also be used. Accordingly, the law no longer invokes the notwithstanding clause.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1532029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1532029", "title": "Geographical indication", "text": "Geographical indication\n\nA geographical indication (GI) is a name or sign used on products which corresponds to a specific geographical location or origin (e.g. a town, region, or country). The use of a geographical indication, as a type of indication of source, may act as a certification that the product possesses certain qualities, is made according to traditional methods, or enjoys a certain reputation, due to its geographical origin.\n\nAppellation of origin is a subtype of geographical indication where quality, method and reputation of a product strictly originate from the delineated area defined under its intellectual property right registration.\n\nGovernments have been protecting trade names and trademarks used in relation to food products identified with a particular region since at least the end of the nineteenth century, using laws against false trade descriptions or passing off, which generally protect against suggestions that a product has a certain origin, quality or association when it does not. In such cases, the limitation on competitive freedoms which results from the grant of a monopoly of use over a geographical indication is justified by governments either by consumer protection benefits or by producer protection benefits.\n\nOne of the first GI systems is the one used in France from the early part of the twentieth century known as \"appellation d'origine contrôlée\" (AOC). Items that meet geographical origin and quality standards may be endorsed with a government-issued stamp which acts as official certification of the origins and standards of the product to the consumer. Examples of products that have such 'appellations of origin' include Gruyère cheese (from Switzerland) and many French wines.\n\nGeographical indications have long been associated with the concept of terroir and with Europe as an entity, where there is a tradition of associating certain food products with particular regions. Under European Union Law, the protected designation of origin framework which came into effect in 1992 regulates the following systems of geographical indications: \"Protected designation of origin\" (PDO), \"protected geographical indication\" (PGI) and \"Traditional Specialities Guaranteed\" (TSG).\n\nGeographical Indications protection is granted through the TRIPS Agreement. See also the Paris Convention, the Madrid Agreement, the Lisbon Agreement, the Geneva Act. Protection afforded to geographical indications by law is arguably two folded. On the one hand it is granted through sui generis law (public law), e.g., in the European Union. In other words, GI protection should apply through ex-officio protection, where authorities may support and get involved in the making of GI collective dimensions together with their corresponding GI regulatory council, where ongoing discourse with the government is implied for effective inspection and quality control. On the other hand, it is granted through common law (private law). In other words, it is similar to the protection afforded to trade marks as it can be registered through collective trade marks and also through certification marks, i.e., in the United States of America.\n\nGI protection systems restrict the use of the GIs for the purpose of identifying a particular type of product, unless the product and/or its constituent materials and/or its fabrication method originate from a particular area and/or meet certain standards. Sometimes these laws also stipulate that the product must meet certain quality tests that are administered by an association that owns the exclusive right to license or allow the use of the indication. As GIs are recognised through public or private law, - depending on the GI protection system applied among the different WTO state members, either through common law or sui generis law,- the conflicts between prior trade mark registration and GIs is an international debate that is yet to be resolved and what makes the GI system rather positional in terms of international trade negotiations. These conflicts are generally resolved through three intellectual property protection approaches: first in time -first in right approach, coexistence approach, GI superiority approach.\n\nArguably trade marks are seen as a valuable asset in terms of private business and their economic assets while GIs are strongly connected to socio-economic development, along the lines of sustainability in countries rich in traditional knowledge.\n\nThe consumer-benefit purpose of the protection rights granted to the beneficiaries (generally speaking the GI producers), has similarities and differences to the trade mark rights:\nGeographical indications have other similarities with trade marks. For example, they must be registered in order to qualify for protection, and they must meet certain conditions in order to qualify for registration. One of the most important conditions that most governments have required before registering a name as a GI is that the name must not already be in widespread use as the generic name for a similar product. Of course, what is considered a very specific term for a well-known local specialty in one country may constitute a generic term or genericized trademark for that type of product. For example, \"parmigiano\" cheese in Italy is generically known as \"Parmesan\" cheese in Australia and the United States.\n\nGeographical indications are generally traditional products, produced by rural, marginal or indigenous communities over generations, that have gained a reputation on the local, national or international market due to their specific unique qualities.\n\nThe recognition and protection on the markets of the names of these products allows the community of producers to invest in maintaining the specific qualities of the product on which the reputation is built. Most importantly, as the reputation spreads beyond borders and demand grows, investment should be driven to the environment sustainability where these products originate and are produced. The application of circular economy will ensure socio-economic returns in the long-run to avoid growth at an environmental cost. This approach for GI development may also allow for investment together with promoting the reputation of the product along the lines of sustainability when and where possible.\n\nRural development impacts from geographical indications, referring to environmental protection, economic development and social well-being, can be:\n\nNone of these impacts are guaranteed and they depend on numerous factors, including the process of developing the geographical indications, the type and effects of the association of stakeholders, the rules for using the GI (or Code of Practice), the inclusiveness and quality of the collective dimension decision making of the GI producers association and quality of the marketing efforts undertaken.\n\nLike trade marks, geographical indications are regulated locally by each country because conditions of registration such as differences in the generic use of terms vary from country to country. This is especially true of food and beverage names which frequently use geographical terms, but it may also be true of other products such as carpets (e.g. 'Shiraz'), handicrafts, flowers and perfumes.\n\nWhen products with GIs acquire a reputation of international magnitude, some other products may try to pass themselves off as the authentic GI products. This kind of competition is often seen as unfair, as it may discourage traditional producers as well as mislead consumers. Thus the European Union has pursued efforts to improve the protection of GI internationally. Inter alia, the European Union has established distinct legislation to protect geographical names in the fields of wines, spirits, agricultural products including beer. A register for protected geographical indications and denominations of origin relating to products in the field of agriculture including beer, but excluding mineral water, was established (DOOR). Another register was set up for wine region names, namely the E-Bacchus register. A register of the geographical indications for spirits and for any other products is still missing in the European Union and most other countries in the world. A\nprivate database project (GEOPRODUCT directory) intends to close this gap. Accusations of 'unfair' competition should although be levelled with caution since the use of GIs sometimes comes from European immigrants who brought their traditional methods and skills with them.\n\nInternational trade made it important to try to harmonize the different approaches and standards that governments used to register GIs. The first attempts to do so were found in the Paris Convention on trademarks (1883, still in force, 176 members), followed by a much more elaborate provision in the 1958 Lisbon Agreement on the Protection of Appellations of Origin and their Registration. 28 countries are parties to the Lisbon agreement: Algeria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czech Republic, North Korea, France, Gabon, Georgia, Haiti, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Italy, Macedonia, Mexico, Moldova, Montenegro, Nicaragua, Peru, Portugal, Serbia, Slovakia, Togo and Tunisia. About 9000 geographical indications were registered by Lisbon Agreement members.\n\nThe WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (\"TRIPS\") defines \"geographical indications\" as indications that identify a good as \"originating in the territory of a Member, or a region or locality in that territory, where a given quality, reputation or other characteristic of the good is essentially attributable to its geographic origin.\"\n\nIn 1994, when negotiations on the WTO TRIPS were concluded, governments of all WTO member countries (164 countries, as of August 2016) had agreed to set certain basic standards for the protection of GIs in all member countries. There are, in effect, two basic obligations on WTO member governments relating to GIs in the TRIPS agreement:\n\n\nArticle 22 of TRIPS also says that governments may refuse to register a trademark or may invalidate an existing trademark (if their legislation permits or at the request of another government) if it misleads the public as to the true origin of a good. Article 23 says governments may refuse to register or may invalidate a trademark that conflicts with a wine or spirits GI whether the trademark misleads or not.\n\nArticle 24 of TRIPS provides a number of exceptions to the protection of geographical indications that are particularly relevant for geographical indications for wines and spirits (Article 23). For example, Members are not obliged to bring a geographical indication under protection where it has become a generic term for describing the product in question. Measures to implement these provisions should not prejudice prior trademark rights that have been acquired in good faith; and, under certain circumstances — including long-established use — continued use of a geographical indication for wines or spirits may be allowed on a scale and nature as before.\n\nIn the Doha Development Round of WTO negotiations, launched in December 2001, WTO member governments are negotiating on the creation of a 'multilateral register' of geographical indications. Some countries, including the EU, are pushing for a register with legal effect, while other countries, including the United States, are pushing for a non-binding system under which the WTO would simply be notified of the members' respective geographical indications.\n\nSome governments participating in the negotiations (especially the European Communities) wish to go further and negotiate the inclusion of GIs on products other than wines and spirits under Article 23 of TRIPS. These governments argue that extending Article 23 will increase the protection of these marks in international trade. This is a controversial proposal, however, that is opposed by other governments including the United States who question the need to extend the stronger protection of Article 23 to other products. They are concerned that Article 23 protection is greater than required, in most cases, to deliver the consumer benefit that is the fundamental objective of GIs laws.\n\nOne reason for the conflicts that occur between the European and United States governments is a difference in philosophy as to what constitutes a \"genuine\" product. In Europe, the reigning theory is that of \"terroir,\" that there is a specific property of a geographical area, and that dictates a strict usage of geographical designations. Thus, anyone with sheep of the right breeds can make Roquefort cheese, if they are located in the part of France where that cheese is made, but nobody outside that part of France can make a blue sheep's milk cheese and call it \"Roquefort,\" even if they make it in such a way as to completely duplicate the process described in the definition of Roquefort.\n\nBy contrast, in the United States, the naming is generally considered to be a matter of intellectual property. Thus, the name \"Grayson\" belongs to Meadowcreek Farms, and they have to a right to use it as a trademark. Nobody, even in Grayson County, Virginia, can call their cheese \"Grayson,\" while Meadowcreek Farms, if they bought up another farm elsewhere in the United States, even if nowhere near Grayson County, could use that name. It is considered that their need to preserve their reputation as a company is the quality guarantee.\n\nThis difference causes most of the conflict between the United States and Europe in their attitudes toward geographical names. \n\nHowever, there is some overlap, particularly with American products adopting a European way of viewing the matter. The most notable of these are crops: Vidalia onions, Florida oranges, and Idaho potatoes. In each of these cases, the state governments of Georgia, Florida, and Idaho registered trademarks, and then allowed their growers—or in the case of the Vidalia onion, only those in a certain, well-defined geographical area within the state—to use the term, while denying its use to others. The European conception is increasingly gaining acceptance in American viticulture, as well, as vintners in the various American Viticultural Areas are attempting to form well-developed and unique identities as New World wine gains acceptance in the wine community. Finally, the United States has a long tradition of placing relatively strict limitations on its native forms of whiskey; particularly notable are the requirements for labeling a product \"straight whiskey\" (which require the whiskey to be produced in the United States according to certain standards) and the requirement, enforced by federal law and several international agreements (NAFTA among them) that a product labeled Tennessee whiskey be a straight Bourbon whiskey produced in the state of Tennessee.\n\nInversely, some European products have adopted a more American system: a prime example is the Newcastle Brown Ale, which received an EU protected geographical status in 2000. When the brewery moved from Tyneside to Tadcaster in North Yorkshire (approximately 150 km away) in 2007 for economic reasons, the status had to be revoked.\n\n"}
{"id": "13433595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13433595", "title": "Government contractor", "text": "Government contractor\n\nA government contractor is a company (privately owned or publicly traded but not a state-owned enterprise)either for profit or non-profitthat produces goods or services under contract for the government. Some communities are largely sustained by government contracting activity; for instance, much of the economy of Northern Virginia consists of government contractors employed directly or indirectly by the federal government of the United States.\n\nSection 12(2) and (3) of the Official Secrets Act 1989 define the expression \n\"Government Contractor\" for the purposes of that Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "2231026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2231026", "title": "House of Chiefs", "text": "House of Chiefs\n\nA House of Chiefs (or \"House of Traditional Leaders\") is a post-colonial assembly, either legislative or advisory, that is recognised by either a national or regional government as consisting of and providing a collective, public voice for an ethnic group's pre-colonial authorities. Although often influential within the indigenous culture, its members do not usually function as a modern nation's primary law-making body (cf. British House of Lords), being neither representative (i.e. democratically elected) nor consisting of members appointed individually by the government in power, whether democratic or not. It consists of all or some of the \"traditional leaders\", historically known in English as chiefs, of a country or a sub-division thereof.\n\nA House of Chiefs is not, constitutionally, a partisan institution within the body politic. Members of a House of Chiefs are selected neither by a universal suffrage process of those they represent nor by the state executive or legislature they advise: Their function is to express a cultural, historical and/or ethnic point of view on public policies. The process by which individuals qualify for membership varies, but is based on tradition specific to his or her (e.g. the Rain Queen) historic community or ethnic group. Sometimes the qualifying position is obtained through heredity within a local dynasty, sometimes through selection by consensus of a ritually or socially prominent subset of a community, and sometimes by a combination thereof.\n\nHistorically, chiefs were the last indigenous rulers before colonisation of a people, and their modern versions often continue to play a local cultural role of varying significance. Especially in colonial times, chiefs were often used as instruments of indirect rule, and/or convenient alternatives to elective institutions.\n\nIn the post-colonial age, various Houses of Chiefs and similar assemblies have existed in various nations:\n\n\n\nThe term has also been used for similar pre- and post-colonial assemblies of tribal leaders, such as among certain Native American tribes.\n\nAnother way to include traditional chiefs in a nation's political life is to assign them a number of seats in a wider assembly. In Zimbabwe, for example, ten chiefs are chosen to be members of the Senate, the upper house of the country's parliament. From 1990 to 2005, they were represented in the House of Assembly (now the lower house) when it was the sole legislative chamber.\n"}
{"id": "867622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=867622", "title": "Hybrid instrument", "text": "Hybrid instrument\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a hybrid instrument (or hybrid bill) is a public bill proposing a law which affects the private interests of a particular person or organisation. It is generally initiated by the government on behalf of non-parliamentary bodies such as local authorities and is treated like a private bill for the beginning of its passage through the Parliament of the United Kingdom. This gives individuals and bodies an opportunity to oppose the bill or to seek its amendment before a select committee in either or in both Houses. The bill is then treated as a public bill.\n\nExamples of hybrid instruments have been those to construct the Channel Tunnel, the Dartford Crossing, and Crossrail.\n\nThe use of hybrid instruments originated as part of the parliamentary procedure of the United Kingdom Parliament, but the procedure is also occasionally used by other parliaments and assemblies set up on similar lines to that of Westminster.\n\nHistorically, hybrid instruments have often been used by government on behalf of railway companies and transport agencies to obtain authorisation for major projects deemed to be in the national interest, but which would affect a large number of private interests.\n\nStatutory instruments can also be hybrids. When opposed, such instruments are referred to the Hybrid Instruments Committee to report to the House on whether a select committee should be appointed to consider the petition or petitions against the instrument.\n\nIn Canada, they are specifically disallowed by Beauchesne's \"Rules and Forms of the House of Commons of Canada\", which states that \"According to Canadian standing orders and practice, there are only two kinds of bills – public and private. The British hybrid bill is not recognized in Canadian practice.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1775568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1775568", "title": "Indemnity and Oblivion Act", "text": "Indemnity and Oblivion Act\n\nThe Indemnity and Oblivion Act 1660 is an Act of the Parliament of England (12 Cha. II c. 11), the long title of which is \"An Act of Free and General Pardon, Indemnity, and Oblivion\". This act was a general pardon for everyone who had committed crimes during the Civil War and Interregnum with the exception of certain crimes such as murder (without a licence granted by King or Parliament), piracy, buggery, rape and witchcraft, and people named in the act such as those involved in the regicide of Charles I. It also said that no action was to be taken against those involved at any later time, and that the Interregnum was to be legally forgotten.\n\nThe Indemnity and Oblivion Act fulfilled the suggestion given in the Declaration of Breda that reprisals against the establishment which had developed during the English Interregnum would be restricted to those who had officiated in the regicide of King Charles I.\n\nThe passage of the Indemnity and Oblivion Act through the Convention Parliament was secured by Lord Clarendon, the first minister of King Charles II, and it became law on 29 August 1660 during the first year of the English Restoration.\n\nThe lands of the Crown and the established Church were automatically restored, but lands of Royalists and other dissenters confiscated and sold during the Civil War and interregnum were left for private negotiation or litigation, meaning that the government would not help the Loyalists in regaining their property. Disappointed Royalists commented that the Act meant \"indemnity for [Charles'] enemies and oblivion for his friends\". Historians, on the other hand, have generally praised the King and Clarendon for the generosity and clemency of the Act, in an age not normally noted for mercy. Twenty years later, during the Popish Plot, Charles tried unsuccessfully to stand against the relentless demand for the execution of Catholic priests, and reminded the public sharply of how many of them had previously benefited from his reluctance to shed blood.\n\nThe act is often viewed from the perspective of those who were not pardoned and thus condemned to death. However, the debate in Parliament continued almost every day for over two months and names were added and taken off the list of those who were not to be pardoned. Initially there were only seven on the list to be exempted from the act. These were Thomas Harrison, William Say, John Jones Maesygarnedd, Thomas Scot, John Lisle, Cornelius Holland, and John Barkstead. On 7 June, the Commons, mindful of the Declaration of Breda, stated they as the Commons could add to the list others who would not be covered by the general pardon. They immediately added John Cooke, Andrew Broughton, Edward Dendy, and the \"Two Persons who were upon the Scaffold in a Disguise\" (i.e. the executioners). On 8 June, the Commons voted \"That the Number of Twenty, and no more, (other than those that are already excepted, or sat as Judges upon the late King's Majesty) shall be excepted out of the Act of general Pardon and Oblivion, for and in respect only of such Pains, Penalties, and Forfeitures, (not extending to Life) as shall be thought fit to be inflicted on them by another Act, intended to be hereafter passed for that purpose\".\n\nOne of the people to benefit directly from the Act was John Milton, who was released from prison.\n\nSections:\n\nThe Act was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1948.\n\nAn Irish act by the same name \"An Act of Free and General Pardon, Indemnity, and Oblivion [for Ireland]\" was sent to the Duke of Ormonde on 16 August 1664 by Sir Paul Davys, the Irish Secretary of State.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6037858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6037858", "title": "Innocent dissemination", "text": "Innocent dissemination\n\nA person who is found to have published a defamatory statement may evoke a defence of innocent dissemination, which absolves him/her of liability provided that he/she had no knowledge of the defamatory nature of the statement, and that his/her failure to detect the defamatory content was not due to negligence. The defence, sometimes also known as \"mechanical distributor\", is of concern to Internet Service Providers because of their potential liability for defamatory material posted by their subscribers.\n\nThe basic rule is that everyone involved in any way in the production or dissemination of defamatory material is liable as having published it. This is because defamation is a tort of strict liability. It can be committed unwittingly by reason of the existence of facts and circumstances unknown to the publisher of the defamatory statement. However, some forms of distribution or dissemination are so mechanical that a distributor ought not to be held liable unless he/she ought to have known there was defamation involved. Therefore, a defence of innocent dissemination is conceived\n\nAt common law, a defense of innocent dissemination is available to a person who, neither knowingly nor negligently, had merely a subordinate role in the dissemination of the matter containing the defamatory statement.\n\nIn \"Vizetelly v. Mudie's Select Library\", a circulating library provided to subscribers a book on Stanley's search for Emir Pasha in Africa, which turned out to be defamatory. The issue was whether the library can claim protection under innocent dissemination. Lord Justice Romer described the defence as follows:\n\nRomer L.J., at 180, also noted that the defence places a heavy burden upon the defendant to show that they were not negligent. His Lordship held that the defendant library was liable for having negligently overlooked the publisher's request for return of the offending book.\n\nTherefore, the defence involves three limbs:\n\nHowever, it appears that a printer cannot evoke this defence. This has been criticized as \"illogical\" and has been explained as an exception that made sense in the days of primitive technology only - when printers used to read what they print, which is no longer the case.\n\nThis corrected what was seen as a problem with the common law.\n\nIn \"Hemming v Newton\", Hemming sued Newton for libel and defamation as a result of a posting and a story on a P2P website which was owned and moderated by Newton. The author of the posting was unknown, but Newton was the author of the story. Newton's statements of defence alleged he was an innocent disseminator as he did not see or authorize the posting before it occurred and removed it in good faith upon receipt of Hemming’s complaint. Hemming asserted that it would be an abuse of process for Newton's defence of innocent dissemination to stand. The judge held that Newton had pleaded sufficient facts to enable Hemming to know why he contends he was an innocent disseminator, and refused to strike out the defence.\n\nThe defence of innocent dissemination has been extended to printers in England by virtue of s.1 of the Defamation Act 1996. However, the Act made clear that the defence is not available to the author, editor or commercial publisher of the defamatory material.\n\nThe potential liability of Internet Service Providers was explored in \"Godfrey v Demon Internet Service\". The defendants were an ISP operating Usenet newsgroups. An unknown person made a posting in the United States in the newsgroup \"soc.culture.thai\". The posting followed a path from its originating American ISP to the defendants' news server in England. It purported to come from the plaintiff, but was an obscene and defamatory forgery. The plaintiff asked the defendants to remove the posting, but the defendant did not do so until the posting automatically expired 10 days later. \n\nMorland J considered \"Byrne v Deane\", in which the defendant failed to remove a defamatory notice placed on a board in its premise (a golf club). In \"Byrne\", Greene LJ rejected the proposition that publication cannot be constituted by the refraining from doing some act, and identified the test as:\nMorland J then held that whenever a defamatory posting is transmitted from the defendants' news server, the defendants should be regarded as having published that posting to customers who accessed the newsgroup containing that posting. Therefore he entered judgment for the plaintiff.\n\nThe issue was again considered in \"Bunt v Tilley & Ors\", in which the plaintiff sought to establish his cause of action against the ISPs on the basis that the authors published the words complained of via the services provided by the ISPs. Eady J struck out the claim and propounded the test for publication as follows:\n\nEady J went on to distinguish \"Godfrey\" as a case of continued publication of the same defamatory statements after receipt of the plaintiff's request of removal. \"Bunt\" was different because the claimant was relying on separate postings. His Lordship further remarked that the position of an ISP is not analogous to that of a distributor. While a distributor may need to prove an absence of negligence to establish a defence of innocent dissemination, his Lordship said persons who truly fulfil no more than the role of a passive medium for communication, such as ISPs, cannot be characterized as publishers and hence \"do not need a defence\".\n\nIn Hong Kong, a statutory defence of unintentional defamation exists in section 25 of the Defamation Ordinance (Cap. 21), but differs from the statutory innocent dissemination defence in the UK Defamation Act 1996 in the sense that under the Defamation Ordinance a defence is not specified for a party who is involved in electronic publications. Under the Defamation Ordinance, if a defendant claims that the words in dispute were innocently published, it may make an \"offer of amend\", which is an offer to publish a correction of the offending words and a sufficient apology to the plaintiff. If the offer of amends is accepted by the plaintiff and is duly performed, the proceedings cannot be taken or continued against the person who made the offer, but can be possibly taken against the author. Section 25(5) of the Ordinance stipulates that the publication will be treated as innocent if (a) that the publisher did not intend to publish the words of and concerning that other person, and did not know of circumstances by virtue of which they might be understood to refer to him; or (b) that the words were not defamatory on the face of them, and the publisher exercised all reasonable care in relation to the publication. In either case, all \"reasonable care\" must be exercised by the publisher in relation to the publication.\n\nThe position of online service providers was considered in Hong Kong in \"Oriental Press Group Ltd and Another v Fevaworks Solutions Limited\". The plaintiffs sought interlocutory injunction against the defendants, to restrain them from publishing certain allegedly defamatory statements on the Internet against the plaintiffs. The defendants were the operators of Golden Forum but had little control over what messages appear on the forum as messages were instantaneously and automatically uploaded. However, there were administrators who were empowered to remove defamatory messages. The plaintiffs alleged that a user posted a defamatory message that accused the plaintiffs of murdering a certain Sister Ha. After considering both \"Godfrey\" and \"Bunt\", Yam J dismissed the contention that \"Godfrey\" was authority that all ISPs are publishers of all statements in their websites. His Lordship held that ISPs are only publishers when they become aware of the defamatory content of any posting and choose not to remove it from their server. As such, the Court refused to grant interlocutory injunction against the defendants.\n\nIn the US there is a similar defence available under section 581 of the Second Restatement of Torts (1977), and after 1996, under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.\n\nIn \"Cubby, Inc. v. CompuServe Inc.\", CompuServe’s CIS product is an electronic, for-profit library that carries a vast number of publications and collects usage and membership fees from its subscribers in return for access to the publications. Once it does decide to carry a publication, it will have little or no editorial control over that publication’s contents. This is especially so when CompuServe carries the publication as part of a forum that is managed by a company unrelated to CompuServe.\n\nWith respect to the Rumorville publication, a company uploads the text of Rumorville into CompuServe’s data banks and makes it available to approved CIS subscribers instantaneously. It was held that CompuServe had no more editorial control over such a publication than does a public library, book store, or newsstand, and it was not feasible for CompuServe to examine every publication it carries for potentially defamatory statements. The judge also remarked that the inconsistent application of a lower standard of liability to an electronic news distributor than that applied to a public library, book store, or newsstand would impose an undue burden on the free flow of information. The judge also identified the appropriate standard of liability is whether CompuServe knew or had reason to know of the allegedly defamatory Rumorville statements. \n\nThe decision of the court in the Cubby case was coded into law with the 1996 Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act. Under the DMCA, an internet provider is immune from copyright violations committed by its user, as long as they promptly remove the violation once discovered. Under Section 230, a website is not liable for defamation committed by a user.\n"}
{"id": "188480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188480", "title": "International community", "text": "International community\n\nThe international community is a phrase used in geopolitics and international relations to refer to a broad group of people and governments of the world. It does not refer literally to all nations or states in the world. The term is typically used to imply the existence of a common point of view towards such matters as specific issues of human rights. An example of an International Community is the United Nations. Activists, politicians and commentators often use the term in calling for action to be taken; e.g., action against what is in their opinion political repression in a target country.\n\nThe term is commonly used to imply legitimacy and consensus for a point of view on a disputed issue; e.g., to enhance the credibility of a majority vote in the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nNoam Chomsky alleges the use of the term is used to refer to United States and its allies and client states, as well as allies in the media of those states. The scholar and academic Martin Jacques says: \"We all know what is meant by the term 'international community', don't we? It's the west, of course, nothing more, nothing less. Using the term 'international community' is a way of dignifying the west, of globalising it, of making it sound more respectable, more neutral and high-faluting.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "53986408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53986408", "title": "Joint authorship", "text": "Joint authorship\n\nJoint authorship of a copyrightable work is when two or more persons contribute enough to the work to be the author of that work. In the case of joint authorship, the authors share the copyright in the work with each other.\n\nArticle 7bis of the Berne Convention states the term of protection for works of joint authorship and extends the general terms of protection provided under Article 7 to works of joint authorship, under the condition that the term of copyright protection must be measured from the death of the last surviving author. But the Berne Convention doesn’t define what works of joint authorship are, because various national legislations have a lot of variations while defining the same, and have a different approach to the topic.\n\nThis problem relating to joint authorship is not specifically dealt with by other international agreements as well, like the UCC, TRIPS, and the WIPO Copyright Treaty 1996.\n\nA joint work is defined in Section 101 of the U.S. Copyright Act as \"a work prepared by two or more authors with the intention that their contributions be merged into inseparable or interdependent parts of a unitary whole\". Section 201(a) gives the status of co-ownership in the copyrighted work to such authors of a joint work.\n\nUnder the US copyright law, a person has to prove the following two things for claiming joint authorship in a work:\n\nThe individual contributions made by authors to a joint work need not necessarily be equal in quality or quantity. Nevertheless, the author has to show that his contribution to the joint work is copyrightable by itself. A contribution of mere ideas is not sufficient. In order to be a joint author, one must contribute expression. For the expression to be copyrightable it has to be original – that is independently created and possess at least a minimal degree of creativity.\n\nHowever, in \"Gaiman v. McFarlane\", where the issue of joint authorship was on the creation of new characters for an existing comic series, the court held that there will be joint-authorship even though the author's contribution was not independently copyrightable. The reasoning given behind this was that if more than one person laboured to create a single copyrightable work, then it would be paradoxical if no one was able to claim copyright because the individual contributions were not themselves copyrightable. While in this case, recent decisions holding that individual contribution must be independently copyrightable were not explicitly overruled, they were distinguished on facts. It was also observed that the lower standard for joint authorship only applies to mixed media works.\n\nThe core of joint authorship is joint labouring by two or more persons in order to complete a pre-concerted common design. In the absence of a pre-concerted common design, the completed work will not be regarded as a joint work. However, it is not required of the several authors that they must necessarily work in physical propinquity or in concert. In \"Edward B. Marks Music Corp. v. Jerry Vogel Music Co\", the court held that while producing a musical composition jointly, two men will be coauthors and owners of the copyright even if they labour at different times, without consulting each other, and remain strangers to each other. It is a work of joint authorship if a person creates lyrics or music with the intention that his work shall be combined with the work of another person who shall create the music or write the lyrics, as the case may be, so as to make the composition complete.\n\nThe touchstone here is the intention, at the time the writing is done, that the parts be absorbed or combined into an integrated unit, although the parts themselves may be either \"inseparable\" (as the case of a novel or painting) or \"interdependent\" (as in the case of a motion picture, opera, or the words and music of a song). Hence, joint authors must have the intention of combining their respective works at the time of creating the work, and not at some later date.\n\nHowever, they are not required to have an express collaboration agreement creating a joint-author relationship.\n\nThere have also been situations wherein the parties shared a pre-concerted intent that their works be merged into one, and yet the court did not grant joint authorship. This was since all the participants in a work did not consider themselves or others to be joint authors.\n\nIn \"Childress v. Taylor\", actress Clarice Taylor asked playwright Alice Childress to write a play about legendary comedienne Jackie \"Moms\" Mabley. While writing, Childress accepted Taylor's assistance. Taylor mainly contributed ideas regarding the portrayal of characters in the play and also provided research on the life of \"Moms\" Mabley. On finalization of the draft, Childress rejected that it was owned equally by her and Taylor and registered the same in her name. Later, Taylor took a copy of the play and produced it at another theatre without Childress' permission. As a response to a suit for infringement by Childress, Taylor claimed that she was a joint author of the script and hence had equal rights in it. The Court while determining this issue, looked at whether the both the participants intended to combine their works into a unitary whole. Additionally, the court checked whether the parties \"intended to be joint authors\" in the work. The court held that Taylor was not a joint author of the script due to lack of contribution of sufficient expression. It observed that no evidence was shown to establish Taylor's role as anything more than giving advice and ideas.\n\nIn another case wherein both the participants had contributed expression, the court denied joint authorship status due to lack of requisite intent. \"Thomson v. Larson\" revolved around the claims to co-authorship of the musical \"Rent\" made by a dramaturge. In this particular case, Jonathan Larson, the author, had written the original play and was having it produced by the New York Theatre Workshop (\"NYTW\"). Lynn Thomson, who was a literature professor at New York University, was hired to help shape and form the plot. The NYTW and Thomson entered into an agreement the terms of which stated that Thomson was to be listed as 'dramaturge' for billing purposes as an independent contractor.\n\nHowever, not long after the dress rehearsal, Larson passed away and Thomson filled in her shoes and concluded the book to be used for the musical. At this stage, Thomson was yet to sign a waiver which would entail her handing over any copyright interest in the concluded work. Notwithstanding the fact that Thomson had a significant contribution in portions that could be copyrighted to the end result, the court held that \"Rent\" was not the product of joint work and as such Thomson could not claim the status of co-author. The argument furthered in this regard was that there was a lack of expression of an indication on behalf of Larson which would indicate that it was ever his intention for Thomson to be a joint author. Instead, his intention as expressed characterized her capacity as an editor of his original work. The court reiterated the precedent established by \"Childress\", rejecting Thompson's argument that the requirement of intention needs to be met with only in a situation where an author's contributions are minimal.\n\nThe court held that in order to be characterized as a joint author, an individual must show two things: first, that he or she produced independent copyright material within the context of the creative process and second, that both individual authors exhibited mutual intent to create the joint work. However, the court argued that, despite Thomson's significant contribution to the development of \"Rent,\" Thomson's claim was without a clear demonstration that Larson knowingly intended to share the playwright credit with her and hence Thomson would not qualify as a joint author.\n\nIn the case of a collective work, defined in Section 101, separate and independent works are assembled into a collection, and while the independent works may have a copyright protection, the nature of copyright protection of the collection is different from that of the independent works. The collective work exists as a distinct entity, other than the individual works that form the collection. Therefore, the key characteristics are assemblage or collection of \"separate and independent works into a collective whole\".\n\nUnlike a work of joint authorship, a collective work such as periodicals lacks the elements of unity and merger.\n\nThe definition of \"joint works\" has led to some concern that when a previously written work such as a play, novel or music is incorporated in a future work such as a motion picture, the authors of such previous works could claim to be the coauthors of the motion picture. It is usually true that a motion picture would be a joint work and not a collective work with respect to the authors actually working on the film, but the usual status of \"employees for hire\" given to them would not let the question of co-ownership come up. Although an author such as a songwriter or novelist may write a work hoping and expecting that his work will be used in a motion picture, it will still be a work of independent authorship because the author did not write the work with the intention of it being used in the motion picture. In such a case, the motion picture will be a derivative work, and Section 103 makes it amply clear that copyright in a derivative work is independent of, and does not affect the extent of any rights in any pre-existing works incorporated in the said derivative work.\n\nIn the case of joint authorship, each author is the owner of not only the part he or she created but of the whole work. Every author can freely use the work and license it out for others to use it. A co-owner of a work of joint authorship does not require other authors' permission to use the work himself, and the other authors can't object to such a use.\n\nIf the license has been granted by one of the joint authors unilaterally, then the license fee collected, if any, must be shared appropriately with other joint authors. In the absence of an agreement determining how the license fee is to be shared, every joint author must receive an equal share irrespective of the amount of their individual contribution to the joint work. A joint author can sign a written statement in compliance with Section 204(a) to alter his ownership shares he is initially vested with.\n\nA joint author may also sue any third party for copyright infringement without asking other co-owners to join the litigation.\n\nMoreover, a joint author does not require other joint authors' consent to transfer his exclusive proportional interest in the work. However, a joint author cannot transfer all interest in the work without obtaining authorization from other co-owners, since that would result in \"an involuntary transfer of the other joint owners' undivided interest in the whole\".\n\nThe interest of a joint author in a work of joint authorship is passed on to his heirs after his death, and not the other joint authors. Hence, in this regard, joint authorship in copyright law is similar to tenancy in common in property law and not a joint tenancy.\n\nIndian copyright law defines 'work of joint authorship' in Section 2(z) of the Indian Copyright Act, 1957 as \"a work produced by the collaboration of two or more authors in which the contribution of one author is not distinct from the contribution of the other author or authors\". The term of copyright protection in case of joint authorship is calculated from the death of the last author, which is sixty years post the death of the last author.\n\nThe leading case of joint authorship in India is \"Najma Heptulla v. Orient Longman Ltd. and Ors\". In this case, the plaintiff is the legal heir of the author of the book \"India Wins Freedom\". The defendant is the publisher of said book. The defendant entered into an agreement with one Prof. Humayun Kabir to make contents of the book known to the public. The plaintiff obtained an injunction restraining defendants from breaking seals of covers of the complete book \"India Wins Freedom\" and from making its contents known to the public. According to the preface to the said book written by Kabir, Maulana Azad used to describe his experiences in Urdu, on the basis of which a draft in English would be prepared by Kabir. The court held that active and close intellectual collaboration and cooperation between Maulana Azad implied that Kabir is a joint author of the book with Maulana Azad. Hence, the defendants were allowed to break the seals of the covers of the complete book \"India Wins Freedom\" and make its contents known to the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53061221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53061221", "title": "Judicial review in Canada", "text": "Judicial review in Canada\n\nIn Canada, judicial review is the process that allows courts to supervise administrative tribunals exercise of their statutory powers. Judicial review of administrative action is only available for decisions made by a governmental or quasi-governmental authority. The process allows individuals to challenge state actions, and ensures that decisions made by administrative tribunals follow the rule of law. The practice is meant to ensure that powers delegated by government to boards and tribunals are not abused, and offers legal recourse when that power is misused, or the law is misapplied. Judicial review is meant to be a last resort for those seeking to redress a decision of an administrative decision maker.\n\nJudicial review in Canada has its roots in the English common law system, where there are two sources of judicial review: the prerogative writs of \"certiorari\" and \"mandamus\", and actions for damages. The British colonies that now form Canada were subject to administrative law from their very beginnings. Legal mechanisms were put into place to ensure that legislation created in the colonies was compliant with British law. The colonial legislatures had limited power, and the statutes that created them contained clauses which prevented them from passing laws that were non-compliant with British law. Judicial review of statutes passed in the colonies were carried out by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. This committee was created and obtained the power of judicial review through the Privy Council Acts of 1833 and 1844. The ability to review the statutes of the colonies meant that the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council became the highest appellate court for the colonies. The precedent of judicial review was set by the Judicial Committee, and subsequently, the Constitution Act of 1867 was drafted with a provision allowing for the courts to enforce limitations of legislative powers through judicial review.\n\nSection 101 of The Constitution Act contains the clause that gives Parliament the power to create a \"General Court of Appeal for the Federated Provinces.\" There is much debate amongst scholars whether or not this clause was initially meant to replace the Judicial Committee. Despite the intentions of the drafters of the constitution, section 101 was used to create first the Supreme and Exchequer Courts, both of which were explicitly formed, in part, to replace the Judicial Committee. In 1971, the Federal Court and the Federal Court of Appeal replaced the Exchequer Court of Canada. With their creation, the Federal Courts were given jurisdiction over judicial review with respect to decisions of federal administrative tribunals and other matters of federal jurisdiction.\n\nA major change to the mechanism of judicial review was the adoption of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms in 1982. This firmly entrenched the mechanism of judicial review with the superior courts. Today, administrative tribunals are subject to the written constitutional guarantees, and superior courts, while performing judicial review, look to these issues in addition to performing statutory interpretation and applying common law precedents.\n\nCourts may exercise their discretion and decide not to hear an application for judicial review. In order for the court to proceed with an application for judicial review, the issue being appealed must be public in nature. The scope of what is public is broad, and the decisions of private, or semi-private entities are sometimes determined to be sufficiently public as to undergo judicial review. Throughout the 20th century, what was considered public grew at a rapid pace. In the 1990s the scope shrunk slightly, but the previous growth significantly outweighed the change.\n\nThe court needs to believe that the party making the claim has standing, and that it has jurisdiction to hear the application. As well, the court analyzes whether the application was made within an appropriate amount of time, and whether the parties have exhausted all avenues of recourse. Other options that should be considered before judicial review include grievances and appeals. An application for judicial review does not automatically stop the administrative proceedings. In order to halt the proceedings, if they are ongoing, the applicant must also apply for a stay of proceedings.\n\nThe grounds for judicial review are broad, but not without limits. The court must be satisfied that there has been a jurisdictional error, an error of procedural fairness, or an error of fact. These grounds are laid out in s. 18.1(4) of the Federal Courts Act. This section of the Act also transfers authority over judicial review against any federal body from the provincial superior courts to the Federal Court.\n\nJudicial review for jurisdictional errors can occur where a decision is \"ultra vires\", made in bad faith, making procedural errors, or making an error of law. Scholars disagree if procedural unfairness should be considered a separate ground, apart from jurisdiction. It is argued in \"Alberta v. Alberta\" (\"Labour Relations Board\") that a breach of the duty to be fair is a ground that is separate, but akin to jurisdictional grounds. Contrarily, it has been argued that although the grounds for judicial review are procedural, the issue still goes to jurisdiction, which allows the superior courts to review the decision. Regardless, where there has been an instance of procedural unfairness, the courts will review the decision.\n\nWhere a privative clause exists, the courts hold that they do not insulate a decision from being reviewed on jurisdictional grounds. When the decision maker is acting within their jurisdiction, a privative clause will prevent judicial review even if there is an error of law.\n\nThe standard of review is the degree of intensity that the courts use on an application for judicial review. Courts have always shown varying degrees of deference to administrative decision makers, and determining the level of deference is now considered its own step. Standard of review exists in two separate forms: correctness, and reasonableness. A third standard, \"reasonableness simpliciter\", was once used but was abolished by the court in \"Dunsmuir v New Brunswick\". The Supreme Court of Canada has indicated that every judicial review must begin with the addressing of standard of review. The principle factors considered by the court when deciding the appropriate standard of review are: \n\nThe standard of reasonableness allows more deference for the administrative decision maker. Rather than reviewing the decision in its entirety, the court instead looks at whether the decision falls within a range of acceptable outcomes that are respectful of the facts and the law. Reasonableness itself is not a spectrum, but a single standard that is coloured by the context of the issue being decided. Cases that use a standard of reasonableness are: \n\nThe correctness standard is applied when the courts give little deference to the administrative decision maker, and decide to review the decision in its entirety. When applying the correctness standard, the court carries out its own statutory analysis and arrive at its own understanding of how the issue should be decided. Some cases where the court uses a standard of correctness are: \n\nThe remedies available to the courts when they are performing judicial review are all forms of injunction that originated with the early English prerogative writs. While monetary damages are common in private law, they are not a typical remedy of judicial review. None of the prerogative remedies are available to use against the Crown. Immunity from prerogative remedies is accorded to the Queen, the Lieutenant Governor, and cabinet ministers and public servants when they are exercising a power conferred by statute. The types of remedies available with judicial review are overlapping, and the court hearing the judicial review may decline to grant a remedy. The following are the remedies available for judicial review: \n\nJudicial review and its corresponding prerogative remedies are all discretionary. The court's discretion allows it to deny remedies, even when the applicant has made out their case. The following are common law reasons that the court may refuse relief.\nIn addition to this list, the court may also use its discretion to refuse remedies based on specific statutory grounds.\n\nThe jurisdiction of the application for judicial review determines which governing legislation will be used. The Federal Court has exclusive jurisdiction over relief against federal boards, commissions, or other tribunals. Superior provincial courts have concurrent jurisdiction for matters of provincial judicial review.\n\nThe \"Federal Courts Act\", and the concurrent \"Federal Courts Rules\" govern any application for judicial review in Federal Court. The source of this power can be found in s. 28 of the \"Federal Courts Act\", which provides that the Federal Court of Appeal is the appropriate venue for judicial review of decisions by federal boards and tribunals.In Federal Court, there is a specific 30 day time limitation with which to make an application for judicial review, which can be found in s.18.1(2).\n\nThis British Columbia legislation governs the superior courts judicial review of administrative tribunals' decisions. The Act only has twenty-one sections, but each contains important provisions for applications for judicial review in British Columbia. When considering the \"Act,\" it is important to remember that other legislation impacts it, such as the \"Administrative Tribunal Act\", which creates a 60 day time limit for judicial review. This directly affects s. 11 of the \"Act\", and the court in \"Braut v Johnson\" determined that the 60 day limitation period governs, where the applicant has not shown that they have: 1) serious grounds for relief; 2) a reasonable explanation for the delay in application; and, 3) no substantial prejudice or hardship will result to a person affected by the delay.\n\nOther important sections include section 1, which defines the terms and parties included in judicial review, and states that all relevant judicial review must take place in the Supreme Court of British Columbia. Section 5 allows the court to send back any part of the decision for reconsideration, whether it be the whole or the part. Section 18 abolishes the \"quo warranto\" remedy, and section 12 addresses the writs of \"mandamus,\" prohibition, and \"certiorari\", which are not issued.\n\nIn Ontario, the \"JRPA\" governs the mechanism of judicial review. This legislation, like the BC \"JRPA,\" refers to the standard of review as \"patently unreasonable\" which the court abolished in \"Dunsmuir\". Because the Supreme Court clearly indicated that this standard of review should not be used, this can instead be understood as signalling to the court performing judicial review that a great amount of deference should be given to the administrative decision maker.\n\nJudicial review of administrative actions is a controversial part of Canadian law. Proponents of judicial review argue that it is a mechanism that forces governments to act within their statutory limits. Another common justification for judicial review is that administrative tribunals perform functions similar to the courts, and should therefore be subject to the same procedural safeguards.\n\nCritics of judicial review argue that allowing the judiciary to review decisions, and ultimately change outcomes, of decisions made by elected representatives is undemocratic. A second issue regarding judicial review that is frequently criticized is the administrative law's inability to adapt quickly. This is particularly prevalent when considering the increase of private contracting taking place in public institutions. Scholars have stated that if the administrative law does not adapt to this change, then courts' abilities to judicially review the decisions of administrative bodies will not be as strong.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39832444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39832444", "title": "Legal history of the Catholic Church", "text": "Legal history of the Catholic Church\n\nThe legal history of the Catholic Church is the history of the oldest continuously functioning legal system in the West, much later than Roman law but predating the evolution of modern European civil law traditions. The history of Latin canon law can be divided into four periods: the \"jus antiquum\", the \"jus novum\", the \"jus novissimum\" and the \"Code of Canon Law\". In relation to the Code, history can be divided into the \"jus vetus\" (all law before the Code) and the \"jus novum\" (the law of the Code, or \"jus codicis\"). Eastern canon law developed separately.\n\nThe most ancient collections of canonical legislation are certain very early Apostolic documents, known as the Church Orders: for instance, the \"Didache ton dodeka apostolon\" or \"Teaching of the Twelve Apostles\", which dates from the end of the first or the beginning of the 2nd century; the Apostolic Church-Ordinance; the \"Didascalia\", or \"Teaching of the Apostles\"; the Apostolic Canons and Apostolic Constitutions. These collections have never had any official value, no more than any other collection of this first period. However, the Apostolic Canons and, through it, the Apostolic Constitutions, were influential for a time in that later collections would draw upon these earliest sources of Church law.\nIt was in the East, after Constantine I's Edict of Milan of toleration (313), that arose the first systematic collections. We cannot so designate the chronological collections of the canons of the councils of the 4th and 5th centuries (314-451); the oldest systematic collection, made by an unknown author in 535, has not come down. The most important collections of this epoch are the \"Synagoge kanonon\", or the collection of John the Scholastic (Joannes Scholasticus), compiled at Antioch about 550, and the Nomocanons, or compilations of civil laws affecting religious matters (\"nomos\") and ecclesiastical laws (\"kanon\"). One such mixed collection is dated in the 6th century and has been erroneously attributed to John the Scholastic; another of the 7th century was rewritten and much enlarged by the schismatical ecumenical patriarch Photius (883).\nIn the Western Church one collection of canons, the \"Collectio Dionysiana\", exercised an influence far beyond the limits of the country in which it was composed. This collection was the work of Dionysius Exiguus, who compiled several collections that now go under the name \"Dionysiana\". Dionysius appears to have done most of his work shortly after the year 600. His collections contain his own Latin translation of the canons of the ancient third-, fourth- and fifth-century councils, excerpts from a (probably) confected collection of African canons (which Dionysius calls the \"Registrum ecclesiae Carthaginensis\", c.f. Church of Carthage), and a collection of (38) papal letters (\"Epistolæ decretales\") dating from the reign of Pope Siricius (384-398) to that of Anastasius II (died 498). The influence of this Italian collection grew enormously during the seventh and eighth centuries, especially in England and France. It was continuously enlarged and modified, the most famous modification being a version supposedly send by Pope Adrian I to Charlemagne in 774 and therefore known today as the \"Collectio Dionysio-Hadriana\".\n\nBesides the \"Dionysiana\" Italy also produced two 5th-century Latin translations of the Greek synods known as the \" Corpus canonum Africano-Romanum\" and \"Collectio prisca\", both of which are now lost though large portions of them survive in two very large Italian collections known as the \"Collectio canonum Quesnelliana\" and \"Collectio canonum Sanblasiana\" respectively. In Italy was also produced a popular fifth-century collection of forgeries known today as the \"Symmachean forgeries\". Africa possessed a late fourth-century collection known as the \"Breviarium Hipponense\" as well as an early fifth-century collection known as the \"Codex Apiarii causae\"; also the \"Breviatio canonum\", or digest of the canons of the councils by Fulgentius Ferrandus (died c. 546), and the \"Concordia canonum\" of Cresconius Africanus, an adaptation of the \"Dionysiana\" (about 690). In Gaul many important collections were produced, like the collection known today as the \"Concilium Arelatense secundum\" and, at the beginning of the 6th century, the \"Statuta Ecclesiæ antiqua\", erroneously attributed to Africa. Also from Gaul/France are the collections known today as the \"Collectio canonum quadripartita\" and the \"Libri duo de synodalibus causis\" composed by Regino of Prüm. Gaul/France also produced two immensely important collections known as the \"Collectio canonum vetus Gallica\" (compiled in Lyons about 600) and the \"Collectio canonum Dacheriana\" (about 800), the latter so called from the name of its editor, Luc d'Achéry. The \"Collectio canonum Hibernensis\" or Irish collection of canons, compiled in the 8th century, influenced both England, Gaul and (though much later) Italy. Unlike almost every other region, England never produced a 'national' collection, though English personnel played an important role in copying and disseminating Irish and Italian collections in Germany and France. Around the year 700 there developed in either England or Germany a collection of penitential canons attributed to Theodore of Tarsus, Archbishop of Canterbury (died 690). This collection marked a major advance in the development of penitential-canonical collections, which had already been in development for centuries especially within the Irish church. Collection like the one attributed to Theodore were known as \"penitentials\", and were often rather short and simple, most likely because they were meant as handbooks for the use of confessors. There were many such books circulating in Europe from the seventh to the eleventh century, each penitential containing rules indicating exactly how much penance was required for which sins. In various ways these penitentials, mainly Insular in origin, came to affect the larger canon law collections in development on the continent. \nIberia (i.e. Spain) possessed the \"Capitula Martini\", compiled about 572 by Martin, Bishop of Braga (in Portugal), and the immense and influential \"Collectio Hispana\" dating from about 633, attributed in the 9th century to St. Isidore of Seville. In the 9th century arose several apocryphal collections, viz. those of Benedictus Levita, of Pseudo-Isidore (also Isidorus Mercator, Peccator, Mercatus), and the \"Capitula Angilramni\". An examination of the controversies which these three collections give rise to will be found elsewhere (see False Decretals). The Pseudo-Isidorian collection, the authenticity of which was for a long time admitted, has exercised considerable influence on ecclesiastical discipline, without however modifying it in its essential principles. Among the numerous collections of a later date, we may mention the \"Collectio Anselmo dedicata\", compiled in Italy at the end of the 9th century, the \"Libellus de ecclesiasticis disciplinis\" of Regino of Prum (died 915); the \"Collectarium canonum\" of Burchard of Worms (died 1025); the collection of the younger St. Anselm of Lucca, compiled towards the end of the 11th century; the \"Collectio trium partium\", the \"Decretum\" and the \"Panormia\" of Yves of Chartres (died 1115 or 1117); the \"Liber de misericordia et justitia\" of Algerus of Liège, who died in 1132; the Collection in 74 Titles — all collections which Gratian made use of in the compilation of his \"Decretum\"\n\nThe period of canonical history known as the \"Jus Novum\" (\"new law\") or \"middle period\" covers the time from Gratian to the Council of Trent (mid-12th century–16th century).\n\nThe spurious conciliar canons and papal decrees were gathered together into collections, both unofficial and official. In the year 1000, there was no book that had attempted to summarized the whole body of canon law, to systematize it in whole or in part. There were, however, many collections of the decrees of councils and great bishops. These collections usually only had regional force and were usually organized chronologically by type of document (e.g. letters of popes, canons of councils, etc.), or occasionally, by general topic. Before the late 11th century, canon law was highly decentralized, depending on many different codifications and sources, whether of local councils, ecumenical councils, local bishops, or of the Bishops of Rome.\n\nThe first truly systematic collection was assembled by the Camaldolese monk Gratian in the 11th century, commonly known as the \"Decretum Gratiani\" (\"Gratian's Decree\") but originally called \"The Concordance of Discordant Canons\" (\"Concordantia Discordantium Canonum\"). Canon law greatly increased from 1140 to 1234. After that it slowed down, except for the laws of local councils (an area of canon law in need of scholarship), and secular laws supplemented. In 1234 Pope Gregory IX promulgated the first official collection of canons, called the \"Decretalia Gregorii Noni\" or \"Liber Extra\". This was followed by the \"Liber Sextus\" (1298) of Boniface VIII, the \"Clementines\" (1317) of Clement V, the \"Extravagantes Joannis XXII\" and the \"Extravagantes Communes\", all of which followed the same structure as the \"Liber Extra\". All these collections, with the \"Decretum Gratiani\", are together referred to as the \"Corpus Juris Canonici\". After the completion of the \"Corpus Juris Canonici\", subsequent papal legislation was published in periodic volumes called \"Bullaria\".\n\nJohannes Gratian was a monk who taught theology at a monastery in Bologna. He produced a comprehensive and \"comprehensible\" collection of canon law. He resolved contradictions and discrepancies in the existing law. In the 1140s his work became the dominant legal text. The papacy appreciated and approved the \"Decretum\" of Gratian. The \"Decretum\" formed the core of the body of canon law upon which a greater legal structure was built. Before Gratian there was no \"jurisprudence of canon law\" (system of legal interpretation and principles). Gratian is the founder of canonical jurisprudence, which merits him the title \"Father of Canon Law\".\n\nIn the thirteenth century, the Roman Church began to collect and organize its canon law, which after a millennium of development had become a complex and difficult system of interpretation and cross-referencing. The official collections were the \"Liber Extra\" (1234) of Pope Gregory IX, the \"Liber Sextus\" (1298) of Boniface VIII and the \"Clementines\" (1317), prepared for Clement V but published by John XXII. These were addressed to the universities by papal letters at the beginning of each collection, and these texts became textbooks for aspiring canon lawyers. In 1582 a compilation was made of the Decretum, Extra, the Sext, the Clementines and the \"Extravagantes\" (that is, the decretals of the popes from Pope John XXII to Pope Sixtus IV).\n\nAfter the Council of Trent, an attempt to secure a new official collection of church laws was made about 1580, when Gregory XIII charged three cardinals with the task. The work continued during the pontificate of Sixtus V, was accomplished under Clement VIII and was printed (Rome, 1598) as: \"Sanctissimi Domini nostri Clementis papæ VIII Decretales\", sometimes also \"Septimus liber Decretalium\". This collection, never approved either by Clement VIII or by Paul V, was edited (Freiburg, 1870) by Sentis. In 1557 the Italian canonist Paul Lancelottus attempted unsuccessfully to secure from Paul IV, for the four books of his \"Institutiones juris canonici\" (Rome, 1563), an authority equal to that which its model, the \"Institutiones\" of Emperor Justinian, once enjoyed in the Roman Empire. A private individual, Pierre Mathieu of Lyons, also wrote a \"Liber Septimus Decretalium\", inserted in the appendix to the Frankfort (1590) edition of the \"Corpus Juris Canonici\". This work was put on the Index.\n\nAt the First Vatican Council several bishops asked for a new codification of the canon law, and after that several canonists attempted to compile treatises in the form of a full code of canonical legislation, e.g. de Luise (1873), Pillet (1890), Pezzani (1894), Deshayes (1894), Collomiati (1898–1901). Pius X determined to undertake this work by his decree \"Arduum sane munus\" (19 March 1904), and named a commission of cardinals to compile a new \"Corpus Juris Canonici\" on the model of the codes of civil law. The 1917 \"Codex Iuris Canonici\" (CIC, Code of Canon Law) was the first instance of a new code completely re-written in a systematic fashion, reduced to a single book or \"codex\" for ease of use. It took effect on 29 May 1918. It had 2,414 canons.\n\nIn 1959, Pope John XXIII announced, together with his intention to call the Second Vatican Council and a Synod of the Diocese of Rome, that the 1917 Code would be completely revised. In 1963, the commission appointed to undertake the task decided to delay the project until the Council had been concluded. After Vatican II closed in 1965, it became apparent that the Code would need to be revised in light of the documents and theology of Vatican II. After decades of discussion and numerous drafts, the project was nearly complete upon the death of Paul VI in 1978. The work was completed in the pontificate of Pope John Paul II. The revision was promulgated by the apostolic constitution \"Sacrae Disciplinae Leges\" on 25 January 1983, taking effect on 27 November 1983. The subjects of the \"Codex Iuris Canonici\" (CIC, Code of Canon Law) are the world's 1.2 billion Catholics of what the Code itself calls the Latin Church. It has 7 books and 1,752 canons.\n\nDistinct from the canonical tradition of the Latin Church is the tradition of the Eastern Catholic Churches. The earliest Oriental canon law collections were called nomocanons, which were collections of both canon and civil law.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, when Eastern Churches began to come back to full communion with the Holy See, Pope Benedict XV created the Sacred Congregation for the Oriental Church in order to preserve the rights and traditions of the Eastern Catholic Churches.\n\nSince the early twentieth century, Oriental canon law had been in the process of codification. Some of these Oriental canon law reforms were promulgated by Pope Pius XII. The codification effort culminated with the Pope John Paul II's 1990 promulgation of the \"Codex Canonum Ecclesiarum Orientalium\" (CCEO, Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches) which incorporates certain differences in the hierarchical, administrative, and judicial \"fora\" for the 23 \"sui juris\" particular Eastern Catholic Churches, which were each encouraged to issue codes of particular law peculiar to each church, so that all of the Catholic Church's canon law would be codified.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7991410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7991410", "title": "Legal proceeding", "text": "Legal proceeding\n\nA legal proceeding is an activity that seeks to invoke the power of a tribunal in order to enforce a law. Although the term may be defined more broadly or more narrowly as circumstances require, it has been noted that \"[t]he term \"legal proceedings\" includes proceedings brought by or at the instigation of a public authority, and an appeal against the decision of a court or tribunal\". Legal proceedings are generally characterized by an orderly process in which participants or their representatives are able to present evidence in support of their claims, and to argue in favor of particular interpretations of the law, after which a judge, jury, or other factfinder makes a determination of the factual and legal issues.\n\n\nCongressional hearings are not generally considered legal proceedings, as they are generally not directed towards the imposition of a penalty against a specific individual for a specific wrong. However, impeachment proceedings are generally conducted as legal proceedings, although experts dispute the question of whether they are primarily legal proceedings, or are merely political proceedings dressed in legal formalities and language. Richard Posner, for example, has asserted that it was \"the intent of the framers of the Constitution that an impeachment proceeding be primarily a legal proceeding, akin to a criminal prosecution, rather than a political one\".\n\n"}
{"id": "574821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574821", "title": "Legitimacy (family law)", "text": "Legitimacy (family law)\n\nLegitimacy, in traditional Western common law, is the status of a child born to parents who are legally married to each other, and of a child conceived before the parents obtain a legal divorce. Conversely, \"illegitimacy \" (or \"bastardy\") has been the status of a child born outside marriage, such a child being known as a bastard, or love child, when such a distinction has been made from other children. In Scots law, the terminology of natural son or natural daughter has the same implications. The prefix \"Fitz-\" added to a surname (e.g., FitzRoy) sometimes denoted that the child's parents were not married at the time of birth.\n\nDepending on local legislation, legitimacy can affect a child's rights of inheritance to the putative father's estate and the child's right to bear the father's surname or hereditary title. Illegitimacy has also had consequences for the mother's and child's right to support from the putative father. \n\nThe importance of legitimacy has decreased considerably in Western countries with the increasing economic independence of women, the sexual revolution of the 1960s and 1970s, the fall of totalitarian regimes, and declining influence of Christian churches on family life. Births outside marriage represent the majority in many countries in Western Europe and in former European colonies. In many Western-derived cultures, stigma based on parents' marital status, and use of the word \"bastard\", are now considered offensive.\n\nEngland's Statute of Merton (1235) stated, regarding illegitimacy: \"He is a bastard that is born before the marriage of his parents.\" This definition also applied to situations when a child's parents could not marry, as when one or both were already married or when the relationship was incestuous.\n\nThe Poor Law of 1576 formed the basis of English bastardy law. Its purpose was to punish a bastard child's mother and putative father, and to relieve the parish from the cost of supporting mother and child. \"By an act of 1576 (18 Elizabeth C. 3), it was ordered that bastards should be supported by their putative fathers, though bastardy orders in the quarter sessions date from before this date. If the genitor could be found, then he was put under very great pressure to accept responsibility and to maintain the child.\"\n\nUnder English law, a bastard could not inherit real property and could not be legitimized by the subsequent marriage of father to mother. There was one exception: when his father subsequently married his mother, and an older illegitimate son (a \"bastard eignè\") took possession of his father's lands after his death, he would pass the land on to his own heirs on his death, as if his possession of the land had been retroactively converted into true ownership. A younger non-bastard brother (a \"mulier puisnè\") would have no claim to the land. \n\nThere were many \"natural children\" of Scotland's monarchy granted positions which founded prominent families. In the 14th century, Robert II of Scotland gifted one his illegitimate sons estates in Bute, founding the Stewarts of Bute, and similarly a natural son of Robert III of Scotland was ancestral to the Shaw Stewarts of Greenock.\n\nIn Scots law an illegitimate child, a \"natural son\" or \"natural daughter\", would be legitimated by the subsequent marriage of his parents, provided they were free to marry at the date of the conception. The Legitimation (Scotland) Act 1968 extended legitimation by the subsequent marriage of the parents to children conceived when their parents were not free to marry, but this was repealed in 2006 by the amendment of section 1 of the Law Reform (Parent and Child) (Scotland) Act 1986 (as amended in 2006) which abolished the status of illegitimacy stating that \"(1) No person whose status is governed by Scots law shall be illegitimate ...\".\n\nThe \"Legitimacy Act 1926\" of England and Wales legitimized the birth of a child if the parents subsequently married each other, provided that they had not been married to someone else in the meantime. The \"Legitimacy Act 1959\" extended the legitimization even if the parents had married others in the meantime and applied it to putative marriages which the parents incorrectly believed were valid. Neither the 1926 nor 1959 Acts changed the laws of succession to the British throne and succession to peerage and baronetcy titles. In Scotland children legitimated by the subsequent marriage of their parents have always been entitled to succeed to peerages and baronetcies and The Legitimation (Scotland) Act 1968 extended this right to children conceived when their parents were not free to marry.The \"Family Law Reform Act\" 1969 (c. 46) allowed a bastard to inherit on the intestacy of his parents. In canon and in civil law, the offspring of putative marriages have also been considered legitimate.\n\nSince 2003 in England and Wales, 2002 in Northern Ireland and 2006 in Scotland, an unmarried father has parental responsibility if he is listed on the birth certificate.\n\nIn the United States, in the early 1970s a series of Supreme Court decisions held that most common-law disabilities imposed upon illegitimacy were invalid as violations of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. Still, children born out of wedlock may not be eligible for certain federal benefits (e.g., automatic naturalization when the father becomes a US citizen) unless the child has been legitimized in the appropriate jurisdiction.\n\nMany other countries have legislatively abolished any legal disabilities of a child born out of wedlock.\n\nIn France, legal reforms regarding illegitimacy began in the 1970s, but it was only in the 21st century that the principle of equality was fully upheld (through Act no. 2002-305 of 4 March 2002, removing mention of \"illegitimacy\" — \"filiation légitime\" and \"filiation naturelle\"; and through law no. 2009-61 of 16 January 2009). In 2001, France was forced by the European Court of Human Rights to change several laws that were deemed discriminatory, and in 2013 the Court ruled that these changes must also be applied to children born before 2001.\n\nIn some countries, the family law itself explicitly states that there must be equality between the children born outside and inside marriage: in Bulgaria, for example, the new 2009 Family Code lists \"equality of the born during the matrimony, out of matrimony and of the adopted children\" as one of the principles of family law.\n\nThe \"European Convention on the Legal Status of Children Born out of Wedlock\" came into force in 1978. Countries which ratify it must ensure that children born outside marriage are provided with legal rights as stipulated in the text of this Convention. The Convention was ratified by the UK in 1981 and by Ireland in 1988.\n\nDespite the decreasing legal relevance of illegitimacy, an important exception may be found in the nationality laws of many countries, which do not apply \"jus sanguinis\" (nationality by citizenship of a parent) to children born out of wedlock, particularly in cases where the child's connection to the country lies only through the father. This is true, for example, of the United States, and its constitutionality was upheld in 2001 by the Supreme Court in \"Nguyen v. INS\".\n\nLegitimacy also continues to be relevant to hereditary titles, with only legitimate children being admitted to the line of succession. Some monarchs, however, have succeeded to the throne despite the controversial status of their legitimacy. For example, Elizabeth I of England succeeded to the throne though she was legally held illegitimate as a result of her parents' marriage having been annulled after her birth.\n\nAnnulment of marriage does not change the status of legitimacy of children born to the couple during their putative marriage, \"i.e.\", between their marriage ceremony and the legal annulment of their marriage. For example, canon 1137 of the Roman Catholic Church's Code of Canon Law specifically affirms the legitimacy of a child born to a marriage that is declared null following the child's birth.\n\nThe Catholic Church is also changing its attitude toward unwed mothers and baptism of the children. In criticizing the priests who refused to baptize out-of-wedlock children, Pope Francis argued that the mothers had done the right thing by giving life to the child and should not be shunned by the church:\nThe proportion of children born outside marriage is rising in all EU countries, North America, and Australia. In Europe, besides the low levels of fertility rates and the delay of motherhood, another factor that now characterizes fertility is the growing percentage of births outside marriage. In the EU, this phenomenon has been on the rise in recent years in almost every country; and in seven countries, mostly in northern Europe, it already accounts for the majority of births.\n\nIn 2009, 41% of children born in the United States were born to unmarried mothers, a significant increase from the 5% of half a century earlier. That includes 73% of non-Hispanic black children, 53% of Hispanic children (of all races), and 29% of non-Hispanic white children. In April 2009, the National Center for Health Statistics announced that nearly 40 percent of American infants born in 2007 were born to an unwed mother; that of 4.3 million children, 1.7 million were born to unmarried parents, a 25 percent increase from 2002. Most births to teenagers in the USA (86% in 2007) are nonmarital; in 2007, 60% of births to women 20–24, and nearly one-third of births to women 25–29, were nonmarital. In 2007, teenagers accounted for just 23% of nonmarital births, down steeply from 50% in 1970.\n\nIn 2014, 42% of all births in the 28 EU countries were nonmarital. In the following European countries the majority of births occur outside marriage: Iceland (69.9% in 2016), France (59.7% in 2016), Bulgaria (58.6% in 2016), Slovenia (58.6% in 2016), Norway (56.2% in 2016), Estonia (56.1% in 2016), Sweden (54.9% in 2016), Denmark (54% in 2016), Portugal (52.8% in 2016), and the Netherlands (50.4% in 2016).\n\nThe proportion of nonmarital births is also approaching half in the Czech Republic (49.0% in 2017), the United Kingdom (47.9% as of 2015), Hungary (46.7% as of 2016), Belgium (49.4% as of 2014), Spain (45.9% as of 2016), Finland (44.9% as of 2016), Austria (42.1% as of 2015). Only six EU countries (Greece, Croatia, Cyprus, Poland, Lithuania and Italy) have a percentage of nonmarital births below 30%. The lowest proportion of births outside marriage, among EU countries in 2016, were found in Greece (9.4%), Croatia (18.9%) and Cyprus (19.1%).\n\nThe prevalence of births to unmarried women varies not only between different countries, but also between different geographical areas of the same country: for example, in Germany, there are very strong differences between the regions of former West Germany and East Germany with a non religious majority. Significantly more children are born out of wedlock in eastern Germany than in western Germany. In 2012, in eastern Germany 61.6% of births were to unmarried women, while in western Germany only 28.4% were. In the UK, in 2014, 59.4% of births were nonmarital in North East of England, 58.9% in Wales, 54.2% in North West England, 52.4% in Yorkshire and the Humber, 52% in East Midlands, 50.8% in Scotland, 50.4% in West Midlands, 48.5% in South West England, 45.5% in East of England, 43.2% in Northern Ireland, 42.9% in South East England, and 35.7% in London.\nIn France, in 2012, 66.9% of births were nonmarital in Poitou-Charentes, while only 46.6% were in Ile-de-France (which contains Paris). One of the reasons for the lower prevalence of nonmarital births in the metropolis is the high number of immigrants from conservative world regions. In Canada, in Quebec, the majority of births since 1995 onwards have been outside marriage. As of 2015, 63% of births were outside marriage in Quebec.\n\nIn the EU, the average percentage of nonmarital births has risen steadily in recent years, from 27.4% in 2000 to 40% in 2012.\n\nIt is notable that traditionally-conservative Catholic countries in the EU now also have substantial proportions of nonmarital births, as of 2016 (except where otherwise stated): Portugal (52.8% ), Spain (45.9%), Austria (41.7%), Luxembourg (40.7%) Slovakia (40.2%), Ireland (36.5%), Malta (31.8%).\nTo a certain degree, religion (the religiosity of the population - see Religion in Europe) correlates with the proportion of nonmarital births (e.g., Greece, Cyprus, Croatia have a low percentage of births outside marriage), but this is not always the case: Portugal (52.8% in 2016) is among the most religious countries in Europe.\n\nThe percentage of first-born children born out of wedlock is considerably higher (by roughly 10%, for the EU), as marriage often takes place after the first baby has arrived. For example, for the Czech Republic, whereas the total nonmarital births are less than half, 47.7%, (third quarter of 2015) the percentage of first-born outside marriage is more than half, 58.2%.\n\nLatin America has the highest rates of non-marital childbearing in the world (55–74% of all children in this region are born to unmarried parents). In most countries in this traditionally Catholic region, children born outside marriage are now the norm. Recent figures from Latin America show non-marital births to be 74% in Colombia, 70% in Paraguay, 69% in Peru, 63% in the Dominican Republic, 58% in Argentina, 55% in Mexico. In Brazil, non-marital births increased to 65.8% in 2009, up from 56.2% in 2000. In Chile, non-marital births increased to 70.7% in 2013, up from 48.3% in 2000.\n\nEven in the early 1990s, the phenomenon was very common in Latin America. For example, in 1993, out-of-wedlock births in Mexico were 41.5%, in Chile 43.6%, in Puerto Rico 45.8%, in Costa Rica 48.2%, in Argentina 52.7%, in Belize 58.1%, in El Salvador 73%, in Suriname 66% and in Panama 80%.\n\nOut-of-wedlock births are less common in Asia: in 1993 the rate in Japan was 1.4%; in Israel, 3.1%; in China, 5.6%; in Uzbekistan, 6.4%; in Kazakhstan, 21%; in Kyrgyzstan, 24%. However, in the Catholic Philippines that disallows contraceptives and divorces, the out-of-wedlock birth rate was 37% in 2008-9, which skyrocketed to 52.1% by 2015.\n\nCovert illegitimacy is a situation which arises when someone who is presumed to be a child's father (or mother) is in fact not the biological father (or mother). Frequencies as high as 30% are sometimes assumed in the media, but research by sociologist Michael Gilding traced these overestimates back to an informal remark at a 1972 conference.\n\nThe detection of unsuspected illegitimacy can occur in the context of medical genetic screening, in genetic family name research, and in immigration testing. Such studies show that covert illegitimacy is in fact less than 10% among the sampled African populations, less than 5% among the sampled Native American and Polynesian populations, less than 2% of the sampled Middle Eastern population, and generally 1%-2% among European samples.\n\nThe rise in illegitimacy which has been noted in Britain throughout the eighteenth century has been associated with the rise of new employment opportunities for women, making them less dependent upon a husband's earnings. However, the Marriage Act 1753 sought to curb this practice, by combining the spousals and nuptials, and by the start of the 19th century social convention prescribed that brides had to be virgins at marriage, and illegitimacy became more socially discouraged, especially during the Victorian era. Later in the 20th century, the social changes of the 1960s and 1970s have started to reverse this trend, with an increase in cohabitation and alternative family formation. Elsewhere in Europe and Latin America, the increase in nonmarital births from the late 20th century onwards has been linked to secularization, enhanced women's status, and the fall of authoritarian political regimes. The fall of communist regimes in Europe also had an impact. These regimes, while encouraging female participation in the workforce, at the same time discouraged freedom of choice regarding personal life, with the family being tightly controlled by the state. As such, after the fall of the regimes, the population was given more options on how to organize their personal life; in former East Germany the rate of births outside marriage increased dramatically - as of 2012, in eastern Germany 61.6% of births were outside marriage. Right-wing regimes such as those of Spain (Francoist Spain) and Portugal (Estado Novo) also fell, leading to the liberalization of society. Spanish society, for instance, has undergone major changes since the fall of the Franco regime: important legal changes which have occurred throughout the 1970s and 1980s include legalization of divorce, decriminalization of adultery, gender equality in family law, and removing the ban on contraception.\n\nIn many countries there has been a dissociation between marriage and fertility, with the two no longer being closely associated—with births to unmarried couples, as well as childless married couples, becoming more common and more socially acceptable. Contributions to these societal changes have been made by the weakening of social and legal norms that regulate peoples' personal lives and relations, especially in regard to marriage, secularization and decreased church control of reproduction, increased participation of women in the labor force, changes in the meaning of marriage, risk reduction, individualism, changing views on female sexuality, and availability of contraception. New concepts have emerged, such as that of reproductive rights, though these concepts have not been accepted by all cultures. Under the notions of reproductive and sexual rights, individuals—not the state, church, community, etc.—shall decide whether and when individuals shall have children, their number and spacing, the circumstances under which individuals will or will not be sexually active, and their choice of intimate partners and type of relationship.\n\nIt is argued that in some places where the control of the church (especially the Roman Catholic Church) was traditionally very strong, the social changes of the 1960s and 1970s have led to a negative reaction of the population against the lifestyles promoted by the church. One of the explanations of the current high rates of unmarried cohabitation in Quebec is that the traditionally strong social control of the church and the Catholic doctrine over people's private relations and sexual morality has led the population to rebel against traditional and conservative social values; since 1995 the majority of births in this province are outside marriage, and as of 2015, in Quebec, 63% of children were born to unmarried women.\n\nThe past few decades have seen decreased marriage rates in most Western countries, and this decrease has been accompanied by increased emergence of non-traditional family forms. Average marriage rates across OECD countries have fallen from 8.1 marriages per 1,000 people in 1970 to 5.0 in 2009.\n\nResearch on the situation in Bulgaria has concluded that\n\nCertainty of paternity has been considered important in a wide range of eras and cultures, especially when inheritance and citizenship were at stake, making the tracking of a man's estate and genealogy a central part of what defined a \"legitimate\" birth. The ancient Latin dictum, \"Mater semper certa est\" (\"The mother is always certain\", while the father is not) emphasized the dilemma.\n\nIn English common law, Justice Edward Coke in 1626 promulgated the \"Four Seas Rule\" (\"extra quatuor maria\") asserting that, absent impossibility of the father being fertile, there was a presumption of paternity that a married woman's child was her husband's child. That presumption could be questioned, though courts generally sided with the presumption, thus expanding the range of the presumption to a Seven Seas Rule\". But it was only with the Marriage Act 1753 that a formal and public marriage ceremony at civil law was required, whereas previously marriage had a safe haven if celebrated in an Anglican church. Still, many \"clandestine\" marriages occurred.\n\nIn many societies, people born out of wedlock did not have the same rights of inheritance as those within it, and in some societies, even the same civil rights. In the United Kingdom and the United States, as late as the 1960s and in certain social strata even up to today, nonmarital birth has carried a social stigma. In previous centuries unwed mothers were forced by social pressure to give their children up for adoption. In other cases nonmarital children have been reared by grandparents or married relatives as the \"sisters\", \"brothers\" or \"cousins\" of the unwed mothers.\n\nIn most national jurisdictions, the status of a child as a legitimate or illegitimate heir could be changed—in either direction—under the civil law: A legislative act could deprive a child of legitimacy; conversely, a marriage between the previously unmarried parents, usually within a specified time, such as a year, could retroactively legitimate a child's birth.\n\nFathers of illegitimate children often did not incur comparable censure or legal responsibility, due to social attitudes about sex, the nature of sexual reproduction, and the difficulty of determining paternity with certainty.\n\nBy the final third of the 20th century, in the United States, all the states had adopted uniform laws that codified the responsibility of both parents to provide support and care for a child, regardless of the parents' marital status, and gave nonmarital as well as adopted persons equal rights to inherit their parents' property. In the early 1970s, a series of Supreme Court decisions abolished most, if not all, of the common-law disabilities of nonmarital birth, as being violations of the equal-protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. Generally speaking, in the United States, \"illegitimacy\" has been supplanted by the phrase \"born out of wedlock.\"\n\nIn contrast, other jurisdictions (particularly western continental European countries) tend to favour social parentage over the biological parentage. Here a man (not necessarily the biological father) may voluntarily recognise the child to be identified as the father, thus giving legitimacy to the child; the biological father does not have any special rights in this area. In France a mother may refuse to recognise her own child, see anonymous birth.\n\nA contribution to the decline of the concept of illegitimacy had been made by increased ease of obtaining divorce. Prior to this, the mother and father of many children had been unable to marry each other because one or the other was already legally bound, by civil or canon law, in a non-viable earlier marriage that did not admit of divorce. Their only recourse, often, had been to wait for the death of the earlier spouse(s). Thus Polish political and military leader Józef Piłsudski (1867–1935) was unable to marry his second wife, Aleksandra, until his first wife, Maria, died in 1921; by which time Piłsudski and Aleksandra had two out-of-wedlock daughters.\n\nNonmarital birth has affected not only the individuals themselves. The stress that such circumstances of birth once regularly visited upon families, is illustrated in the case of Albert Einstein and his wife-to-be, Mileva Marić, who—when she became pregnant with the first of their three children, Lieserl—felt compelled to maintain separate domiciles in different cities.\n\nSome persons born outside of marriage have been driven to excel in their endeavors, for good or ill, by a desire to overcome the social stigma and disadvantage that attached to it. Nora Titone, in her book \"My Thoughts Be Bloody\", recounts how the shame and ambition of actor Junius Brutus Booth's two actor sons born outside of marriage, Edwin Booth and John Wilkes Booth, spurred them to strive, as rivals, for achievement and acclaim—John Wilkes, the assassin of Abraham Lincoln, and Edwin, a Unionist who a year earlier had saved the life of Lincoln's son, Robert Todd Lincoln, in a railroad accident.\n\nHistorian John Ferling, in his book \"Jefferson and Hamilton: The Rivalry That Forged a Nation\", makes the same point: that Alexander Hamilton's nonmarital birth spurred him to seek accomplishment and distinction.\n\nThe Swedish artist Anders Zorn (1860–1920) was similarly motivated by his nonmarital birth to prove himself and excel in his métier.\nSimilarly, T. E. Lawrence's biographer Flora Armitage writes about being born outside of marriage: \"The effect on [T.E.] Lawrence of this discovery was profound; it added to the romantic urge for heroic conduct—the dream of the Sangreal—the seed of ambition, the desire for honor and distinction: the redemption of the blood from its taint.\" Another biographer, John E. Mack, writes in a similar vein: \"[H]is mother required of him that he \"redeem\" her fallen state by his own special achievements, by being a person of unusual value who accomplishes great deeds, preferably religious and ideally on an heroic scale. Lawrence did his best to fulfill heroic deeds. But he was plagued, especially after the events of the war activated his inner conflicts, by a deep sense of failure. Having been deceived as a child he was later to feel that he himself was a deceiver—that he had deceived the Arabs...\" \"Mrs. Lawrence's original hope that her sons would provide her personal redemption by becoming Christian missionaries was fulfilled only by [Lawrence's brother] Robert.\" Mack elaborates further: \"Part of his creativity and originality lies in his 'irregularity,' in his capacity to remain outside conventional ways of thinking, a tendency which... derives, at least in part, from his illegitimacy. Lawrence's capacity for invention and his ability to see unusual or humorous relationships in familiar situations come also... from his illegitimacy. He was not limited to established or 'legitimate' solutions or ways of doing things, and thus his mind was open to a wider range of possibilities and opportunities. [At the same time] Lawrence's illegitimacy had important social consequences and placed limitations upon him, which rankled him deeply... At times he felt socially isolated when erstwhile friends shunned him upon learning of his background. Lawrence's delight in making fun of regular officers and other segments of 'regular' society... derived... at least in part from his inner view of his own irregular situation. His fickleness about names for himself [he changed his name twice to distance himself from his \"Lawrence of Arabia\" persona] is directly related... to his view of his parents and to his identification with them [his father had changed his name after running off with T.E. Lawrence's future mother].\"\n\nWhile births outside marriage are considered acceptable in many world regions, in some parts of the world they remain highly stigmatized. Women who have given birth under such circumstances are often subjected to violence at the hands of their families; and may even become victims of so-called honor killings. These women may also be prosecuted under laws forbidding sexual relations outside marriage and may face consequent punishments, including stoning.\n\nIllegitimacy has for centuries provided a motif and plot element to works of fiction by prominent authors, including William Shakespeare, Benjamin Franklin, Henry Fielding, Voltaire, Jane Austen, Alexandre Dumas, \"père\", Charles Dickens, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Wilkie Collins, Anthony Trollope, Alexandre Dumas, \"fils\", George Eliot, Victor Hugo, Leo Tolstoy, Ivan Turgenev, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Thomas Hardy, Alphonse Daudet, Bolesław Prus, Henry James, Joseph Conrad, E. M. Forster, C. S. Forester, Marcel Pagnol, Grace Metalious, John Irving, and George R. R. Martin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19811980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19811980", "title": "List of Crown Court venues in England and Wales", "text": "List of Crown Court venues in England and Wales\n\nIn the system of courts of England and Wales, the Crown Court deals with serious criminal charges and with less serious charges where the accused has elected trial at the Crown Court instead of trial at a magistrates' court. The Crown Court also hears appeals against conviction and sentence from magistrates.\n\nThe Crown Court system was established by the Courts Act 1971, which came into force on 1 January 1972, following the recommendations of a Royal Commission chaired by Lord Beeching. Previously, criminal cases that were not dealt with by magistrates were heard by assize courts and Quarter Sessions courts, in a system that had changed little in the preceding centuries. The Crown Court system is administered by Her Majesty's Courts Service, an Executive Agency of the Ministry of Justice. England is divided into six regions by HMCS (London, Midlands, North East, North West, South East and Western), with the whole of Wales forming a seventh region.\n\nIn 2007, there were 91 locations in England and Wales at which the Crown Court regularly sat. Crown Court centres are designated in one of three tiers: first-tier centres are visited by High Court judges for criminal and also for civil cases (in the District Registry of the High Court); second-tier centres are visited by High Court judges for criminal work only; and third-tier centres are not normally visited by High Court judges. High Court judges hear 2% of cases at the Crown Court, but 27% of the most serious (Class 1) cases. Circuit Judges and Recorders sit at all three tiers, hearing 88% and 10% of the cases respectively. When the Crown Court is conducting a trial, the judge sits with a jury of twelve; when hearing appeals against decisions of a Magistrates' Court, the judge sits with two (or sometimes four) magistrates.\n\nSection 78 of the Supreme Court Act 1981 provides that the Crown Court can conduct business at any location in England and Wales, in accordance with directions given by the Lord Chancellor. This power is sometimes used to enable court sittings to take place away from one of the regular Crown Court venues. For example, in 2007, a sitting of the Crown Court was held at one of the oldest court buildings in England or Wales, the former courthouse in Beaumaris, Anglesey, which was built in 1614 and closed in 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15982915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15982915", "title": "Locate (finance)", "text": "Locate (finance)\n\nIn finance, a locate is an approval from a broker that needs to be obtained prior to effecting a short sale in any equity security, i.e. to \"locate\" securities available for borrowing. \n\nThe requirement, in the United States, to locate a stock before 'shorting' it has existed for a long time.\n\nRegulation SHO was announced by the SEC in July 2004. The rule includes a uniform \"locate\" requirement for short sales in all equity securities and a requirement for the firms to document what they have done to locate the securities. Regardless of whether the seller’s short position may be closed out by purchasing securities the same day, firms will need to document that they have borrowed or arranged to borrow the stock, or they have reasonable grounds to believe they can borrow the stock and deliver on delivery date. \n\nMarket makers effecting short sales in connection with bona fide market making are exempt from this requirement. In addition broker-dealers can rely on \"easy to borrow\" lists to satisfy the \"reasonable grounds\" requirement, provided the information used to generate such lists is less than 24 hours old and the securities included on the list are so readily available that it is unlikely the seller will fail to deliver securities on settlement date, but may not rely on the fact that a security is not on a “hard-to-borrow” list to satisfy the test.\n\nEach short sale must be matched to a corresponding locate. However, it is not necessary to secure a locate in the same broker – if a short sale purchaser can prove a secured locate at any broker that is sufficient to provide validity of a short sales transaction.\n\nSince a locate is not a guarantee that security can be borrowed, there exists a threat there may not actually be actual securities that can be borrowed, resulting in so-called naked short. These can be extremely dangerous to the marketand can unnecessarily bring down prices. Responding to such threat, in July 2008 SEC issued an emergency ruling where locates for certain securities had to be backed up by a guaranteed pre-borrow \n"}
{"id": "41994181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41994181", "title": "Motor vehicle insurance law in India", "text": "Motor vehicle insurance law in India\n\nMotor vehicle insurance law in India is governed by the Motor Vehicles Act, Insurance Act and aspects of insurance contracts governed by the Indian Contract Act, Transfer of Property Act and a few others. Motor vehicle insurance is the insurance coverage of the risk of third party arising out the use of motor vehicle and also for covering the risk of damage caused to the vehicle. Taking insurance policy for coverage of certain risks are made compulsory and coverage for other risks are optional at the instance of the owner. Accordingly, motor vehicle insurance policies can be divided into two, namely, compulsory insurance policy (Act policy) and comprehensive policy.\n\nA motor vehicle in a public place is potentially a dangerous and lethal instrument. Even when it is without its engine or without petrol, if it is moved down on an incline, even unintentionally, it can cause considerable damage and human injury. Hence, unlike other properties which may be insured or not at the option of the owner, a motor vehicle is required by law to be insured in respect of the user's liability for death, bodily injury or damage to property of third party. These kinds of insurance contracts are based on indemnity and only cover the damage, and the whole insurance amount is not given every time.\n\nThe occupants of private vehicles and pillion riders are not covered by the Act policy. However, they can be covered by paying additional premium of insurance. If additional premium is not paid to cover the risk of occupants of private vehicle and pillion rider, insurance company will not be liable to compensate such victims. However, Supreme court held that if the policy is package/comprehensive policy, then the occupants of private vehicles and pillion rider are covered, even if the additional premium of coverage of such person is not paid.\n\nWith the emergence of insurance company booms in India there has been occurrence of Bike insurance company as mushrooms. There are very few players which has been identified by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "214404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214404", "title": "National Assembly (Republic of China)", "text": "National Assembly (Republic of China)\n\nThe National Assembly () refers to several national parliamentary government organizations of the Republic of China.\n\nThe National Assembly of the Republic of China was founded in 1913, following the overthrow of the previous Qing dynasty, as the first free democratic legislature in Chinese history. It was disbanded less than a year later as President Yuan Shikai assumed dictatorial power and declared himself the Emperor of China. During the warlord era, the National Assembly was resurrected and disbanded more than once as different warlords vied for power and legitimacy.\n\nThe last continuous National Assembly was established under the framework of the 1947 Constitution of the Republic of China as a constituent assembly and electoral college and called into place in 1948. It was transplanted to Taiwan in 1949 after the Kuomintang (KMT) lost mainland China in the Chinese Civil War. In the 1990s, its parliamentary powers were gradually transferred to the Legislative Yuan before constitutional amendments made it a dormant body in 2000 and fully defunct in 2005.\n\nCalls for a National Assembly were part of the platform of the revolutionaries who ultimately overthrew the Qing Dynasty. In response, the Qing Dynasty formed the first assembly in 1910, but it was virtually powerless and intended only as an advisory body.\n\nAfter the Xinhai Revolution, national elections yielded the bicameral 1913 National Assembly, but significantly less than one percent voted due to gender, property, tax, residential, and literacy requirements. It was not a single nationwide election but a series of local elections that began in December 1912 with most concluding in January 1913. The poll was indirect, as voters chose electors who picked the delegates, in some cases leading to instances of bribery. The Senate was elected by the provincial assemblies. The president had to pick the 64 members representing Tibet, Outer Mongolia, and Overseas Chinese for practical reasons. However, these elections had the participation of over 300 civic groups and were the most competitive nationwide elections in Chinese history.\n\nThe election results gave a clear plurality for the Kuomintang, which won 392 of the 870 seats, but there was confusion as many candidates were members in several parties concurrently. Several switched parties after the election, giving the Kuomintang 438 seats. By order of seats, the Republican, Unity, and Democratic (formerly Constitutionalist) parties later merged into the Progressive Party under Liang Qichao.\n\nKuomintang leader Song Jiaoren was expected to become premier, but he was assassinated on March 20. An investigation linked the crime to Premier Zhao Bingjun and possibly the provisional president, Yuan Shikai. The assembly convened for the first time on April 8 amid heated debate over the assassination. The Kuomintang was divided over solutions on how to deal with Yuan. Sun Yat-sen led a faction to rebel against Yuan on July 12 but was completely defeated within two months. The National Assembly members were compromised by threats and bribes from Yuan. He confined them and forced them to elect him formal president. Next, he outlawed the Kuomintang and expelled them from the assembly. Without a quorum, it could not convene, so Yuan disbanded it on 10 January 1914.\n\nAfter Yuan died, the National Assembly reconvened on 1 August 1916 under the pretext that its three-year term had been suspended and had not expired, but President Li Yuanhong was forced to disband it due to the Manchu Restoration on 1 June 1917. 130 members (mostly Kuomintang) moved to Guangzhou where they held an \"extraordinary session\" on 25 August under a rival government led by Sun Yat-sen, and another 120 quickly followed. After the Old Guangxi Clique became disruptive, the assembly temporarily moved to Kunming and later Chongqing under Tang Jiyao's protection until Guangzhou was liberated. Lacking a quorum, they selected new members in 1919.\n\nIn the Beiyang government, Premier Duan Qirui initiated elections for a new assembly. Seventeen provinces responded, five southern provinces boycotted, and the delegates for Tibet, Xinjiang, and Qinghai were chosen by Beijing. Votes were bought and sold in an open market with prices fluctuating constantly, and fraud and abuse was widespread. Duan dominated this assembly with his Anhui clique's political wing, the Anfu Club, which won 342 of the 470 seats, with the rest going to Liang Shiyi's Communications Clique, Liang Qichao's Research Clique or to independents. It met on 12 August 1918 to elect Xu Shichang to the presidency. This assembly met until 30 August 1920 when the Anhui clique was defeated by the Zhili clique in the Zhili-Anhui War. Xu held national elections in 1921 but only eleven provinces responded so that assembly never convened.\n\nIn 1922, Li Yuanhong was brought back to the Beijing presidency, and he recalled the 1913 assembly without the 1919 \"extraordinary\" additions, under the same pretext that its three years are not finished. Because Sun's Guangzhou regime was in disarray due to Chen Jiongming's rebellion, most members returned to Beijing for its August 1 session. The assembly was thoroughly discredited when it elected Cao Kun president after being bribed in 1923. To cover its shame, the assembly hastily finished the constitution it was working on for a decade. It was finally dissolved after Feng Yuxiang's coup on 24 November 1924. This assembly's three-year term was spread out over eleven years and was marked by corruption, factionalism, absences, and endless debate.\n\nIn 1946, the Constituent Assembly promulgated a new constitution and the first National Assembly met in 1948 in Nanjing, the Chinese capital. Shortly afterwards in 1949, the Mainland fell to the Communists in the Chinese Civil War, and the National Assembly (along with the entire ROC government) was transplanted to Taipei. Apart from the KMT, the only legal parties were the Democratic Socialist Party and the Youth Party.\n\nUnder the constitution, the main duty of the National Convention was to elect the President and Vice President for terms of six years. It also had the right to recall the President and Vice President if they failed to fulfill their political responsibilities. According to \"National Assembly Duties Act,\" the National Assembly could amend the constitution with a two-thirds majority, with at least three-quarters membership present. It could also change territorial boundaries. After the KMT moved to Taiwan, the National Convention's right to legislate was put into moratorium until at least half of all counties in the nation were again able to elect representatives via their County Representatives' Assemblies. The responsibilities of the National Convention were derived from the directions of Dr. Sun Yet-sen.\n\nThe first National Assembly was to have been elected for a period of only six years. However, according to the Kuomintang (KMT) leadership, the fall of the Mainland made it impossible to hold new elections there, as all Mainland provinces were undergoing \"Communist rebellion\". As a result, the Judicial Yuan decided that the original members of the National Assembly of Communist controlled constituencies must continue to hold office until elections could be held. National Assembly elections were still held to replace delegates of territories under ROC control.\n\nAs a result of this decision, the same National Assembly, elected in 1947, remained for 43 years until 1991, when as part of a constitutional ruling a Second National Assembly was elected. There was strong objection to the Assembly, which was derisively called the \"ten-thousand-year Congress\" () by critics.\n\nShortly after passing constitutional reforms in 1991, the National Assembly held direct elections in December. Following a 1994 constitutional amendment, the Assembly essentially became a permanent constituent assembly, as the Assembly's other major role, to elect the President and Vice President of the Republic of China, was abolished. Direct elections for the president, vice president, and Assembly were held simultaneously in March 1996. Most of its other former functions, such as hearing the president's State of the Nation Address and approving the president's nominations of the grand justices and the heads of the Examination and Control Yuans, are now the functions of the Legislative Yuan.\n\nIn 1999, the Assembly passed constitutional amendments to extend terms of the Assembly and Legislative Yuan, which were strongly criticized by the public. The People First Party was founded shortly after the 2000 presidential election. The two larger parties, the Kuomintang and Democratic Progressive Party, wished to bar the PFP from the National Assembly. As a result, the 2000 National Assembly elections were cancelled, and delegates were to be selected \"ad hoc\" on the basis of proportional representation via special election within six months of the Legislative Yuan proposing constitutional amendments, calling for impeachment of the president or vice president, or declaring a vote on changes to national borders. However, no such situation arose from 2000 to 2004, and the National Assembly never met during this period.\n\nOn 23 August 2004, the Legislative Yuan proposed a series of amendments that included suspending the National Assembly. The purpose of this proposal is to transfer power to ratify constitutional amendments and territorial amendments from the National Assembly to the People. Under the amendments, further proposed amendments are to be approved by three-fourths of the present members in the Legislative Yuan, with at least three-fourths of all members present. It would then be promulgated for a period of 180 days and then submitted to a referendum, in which a simple majority of all eligible voters shall be sufficient to ratify the amendments. A Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) proposal authorizing citizens initiative rights to propose constitutional amendments was withdrawn after it became clear that such a proposal would not pass the Legislative Yuan. Opponents of such constitutional reforms argued that by eliminating the 3/4 legislative vote requirement, a relatively small number of voters could force a referendum on Taiwan independence which would trigger a crisis with the People's Republic of China. By contrast, keeping the 3/4 legislative vote requirement would mean that any constitutional amendment would require a consensus among both the pan-green coalition and pan-blue coalition to be considered. The requirement that a majority of all voters approve the amendment allows for a party to block an amendment by boycotting the vote as was done with the referendums voted on the March 2004 ROC Presidential elections.\n\nUnder the Constitution at the time, the National Assembly must then be elected to consider these amendments. Such consideration and eventual ratification of the constitutional amendments was originally considered to be a formality, but a number of unexpected complications occurred in 2005. The first was the poor showing of the People First Party (PFP) in the 2004 Legislative Yuan election. The PFP was widely expected to merge with the KMT, but PFP Chairman James Soong became disenchanted by the idea. The second was the reluctance of the Taiwan Solidarity Union to pass the amendments. These amendments were seen by some Taiwan independence supporters as a prelude to a later declaration of independence, but the results of the 2004 election made this very unlikely. Faced with this outcome, the TSU became very reluctant to support a reform that would make elections by small parties, such as itself harder.\n\nOne final unexpected outcome occurred which gave the National Assembly elections on 14 May 2005 more significance than had been intended. The National Assembly election was lined up immediately after trips to mainland China by KMT Chairman Lien Chan and PFP Chairman James Soong. This had the effect of turning the May 14 elections into an opinion poll on relations with mainland China which was undesired by the Democratic Progressive Party, though the DPP subsequently gained a plurality in the elections.\n\nOn 7 June 2005, the 300 delegates voted (by a majority of 249 to 48) the constitutional amendments into effect, and so suspending the National Assembly until the \"unification of the country\" as stated in the preamble.\n\nWhen the Assembly is not in session, the secretary-general is the \"de facto\" highest-ranking official, in charge of the overall affairs of the Assembly and supervising its staff.\n\nThe 1st and 2nd National Assemblies elected a presidium as the leader of the body.\n\nThe 3rd National Assembly elected a speaker and a deputy speaker to lead the assembly.\n\nThe 4th National Assembly reverted to electing a presidium as the leader of the body. The 11 members are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2438314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2438314", "title": "National Library of Russia", "text": "National Library of Russia\n\nThe National Library of Russia in Saint Petersburg (known as the \"Imperial Public Library\" from 1795 to 1917; \"Russian Public Library\" from 1917 to 1925; \"State Public Library\" from 1925 to 1992 (since 1932 named after M.Saltykov-Shchedrin); NLR), is not only the oldest public library in the nation, but also the first national library in the country. The NLR is currently ranked among the world’s major libraries. It has the second richest library collection in the Russian Federation, a treasury of national heritage, and is the All-Russian Information, Research and Cultural Center. Over the course of its history, the Library has aimed for comprehensive acquisition of the national printed output and has provided free access to its collections. It should not be confused with the Russian State Library, located in Moscow.\n\nThe Imperial Public Library was established in 1795 by Catherine the Great. It was based on the Załuski Library, the famous Polish national library built by Bishop Załuski in Warsaw, which had been seized by the Russians in 1794 after the Partitions of Poland.\n\nThe idea of a public library in Russia emerged in the early 18th century but did not take shape until the arrival of the Russian Enlightenment. The plan of a Russian public library was submitted to Catherine in 1766 but the Empress did not approve the project for the imperial library until , eighteen months before her death. A site for the building was found at the corner of Nevsky Avenue and Sadovaya Street, right in the center of the Russian Imperial capital. The construction work began immediately and lasted for almost fifteen years. The building was designed in a Neoclassical style by architect (built between 1796–1801).\n\nThe cornerstone of the foreign-language department came from the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in the form of Załuski's Library (420,000 volumes), seized in part by the Russian government at the time of the partitions, though many volumes were lost en route to theft by Russian soldiers who sold them for profit. The Polish-language books from the library (numbering some 55,000 titles) were returned to Poland by the Russian SFSR in 1921.\n\nFor five years after its foundation, the library was run by Comte Marie-Gabriel-Florent-Auguste de Choiseul-Gouffier. The stocks were arranged according to a specially compiled manual of library classification. In 1810, Emperor Alexander I approved Russia’s first library law stipulating, among other things, that two legal copies of all printed matter in Russia be deposited in the Library.\n\nThe Library was to be opened for the public in 1812 but, as the more valuable collections had to be evacuated because of Napoleon’s invasion, the inauguration was postponed for two years.\n\nUnder Count Alexander Stroganov, who managed the library during the first decade of the 19th century, the Rossica project was inaugurated, a vast collection of foreign books touching on Russia. It was Stroganov who secured for the library some of its most invaluable treasures, namely the Ostromir Gospel, the earliest book written in the Old East Slavic dialect of Church Slavonic (which was to eventually develop into the Russian language), and the Hypatian Codex of the Russian Primary Chronicle. He, along with other bibliophiles, also reviewed the collection of manuscripts and letters brought by Peter P. Dubrowsky (1754-1816) who had stayed in the diplomatic service for more than 20 years outside the fatherland. Based on the review, Stroganov recommended to Alexander I the creation of a manuscript depot. Alexander decreed the creation of such a department on February 27, 1805, and named Dubrowsky as the first keeper of the depot of manuscripts.\n\nThe Imperial Public Library was inaugurated on in the presence of Gavrila Derzhavin and Ivan Krylov. Over 100 thousand titles were issued to the visitors in the first three decades, and the second Library building (designed by Carlo Rossi) facing the Catherine Garden was erected between 1832-1835 to accommodate the growing collections.\n\nThe library's third, and arguably most famous, director was Aleksey Olenin (1763–1843). His 32-year tenure at the helm, with Sergey Uvarov serving as his deputy, raised the profile of the library among Russian intellectuals. The library staff included prominent men of letters and scholars like Ivan Krylov, Konstantin Batyushkov, Nikolay Gnedich, Anton Delvig, Mikhail Zagoskin, Alexander Vostokov, and Father Ioakinf, to name but a few.\n\nLibrarianship progressed to a new level in the 1850s. The reader community grew several times, enlarged by common people. At the same time, many gifts of books were offered to the library. Consequently, collection growth rates in the 1850s were five times higher than the annual growth rate of five thousand new acquired during the first part of the century. In 1859, Vasily Sobolshchikov prepared the first national manual of library science for the library entitled \"Public Library Facilities and Cataloguing\". By 1864, the Public Library held almost 90 per cent of all Russian printed output.\n\nThe influx of new visitors required a larger reading room in the new building closing the library court along the perimeter (designed by Sobolshchikov, built in 1860—62). The visitors were offered such novelties as continuous reading room service by library staff members, a reference desk, printed catalogues and guide books, lists of new acquisitions, and longer hours of service in the reading room (10 a.m. to 9 p.m). \n\nAn avalanche-like growth of attendance persisted in the second part of the 19th century. Library cards and attendance grew tenfold between 1860 and 1913. The public principle triumphed when the class barriers maintained until the mid-19th century were abolished and the petty bourgeois, peasants and even women were often seen among the visitors. Women were also employed by the Library but only as volunteer members rather than formal staff.\n\nFrom 1849 to 1861 the library was managed by Count Modest von Korff (1800–76), who had been Alexander Pushkin's school-fellow at the Lyceum. Korff and his successor, Ivan Delyanov, added to the library's collections some of the earliest manuscripts of the New Testament (the Codex Sinaiticus from the 340s), the Old Testament (the so-called Leningrad Codex), and one of the earliest Qur'ans (the Uthman Qur'an from the mid-7th century).\n\nThe Library’s role was adapted to changing conditions requiring close contacts with universities, scientific societies, leading research centers and major international libraries. The Public library engaged eminent scholars and cultural workers, and research groups were formed to study precious books and manuscripts.\n\nThe Library continued to build a comprehensive collection of national publications. The growing collections were located in a new building (designed by E.S. Vorotilov, 1896—1901). By 1913, the Library held one million Russian books (total collections comprising three million titles), emerging as one of the world’s great libraries and the richest manuscript collection in Russia.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Russian Revolution, the institution was placed under the management of Ernest Radlov and Nicholas Marr, although its national preeminence was relinquished to the Lenin State Library in Moscow. The library was awarded the Order of the Red Banner of Labour in 1939 and remained open during the gruesome Siege of Leningrad. In 1948, the Neoclassical campus of the Catherine Institute on the Fontanka Embankment (Giacomo Quarenghi, 1804–07) was assigned to the library. By 1970, the Library contained more than 17,000,000 items. The modern building for the book depository was erected on Moskovsky Prospekt in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nThe National Library began a large-scale digitization project at the end of the 20th century. By 2012 the Library, along with its counterpart in Moscow, had around 80,000 titles available electronically.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1864593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1864593", "title": "Noerr–Pennington doctrine", "text": "Noerr–Pennington doctrine\n\nUnder the \"Noerr–Pennington\" doctrine, private entities are immune from liability under the antitrust laws for attempts to influence the passage or enforcement of laws, even if the laws they advocate for would have anticompetitive effects. \"Eastern Railroad Presidents Conference v. Noerr Motor Freight, Inc.\", ; \"United Mine Workers v. Pennington\", . The doctrine is grounded in the First Amendment protection of political speech, and \"upon a recognition that the antitrust laws, 'tailored as they are for the business world, are not at all appropriate for application in the political arena.' \" \"City of Columbia v. Omni Outdoor Advertising, Inc.\", quoting \"Noerr\", .\n\nThe doctrine was set forth by the United States Supreme Court in \"Eastern Railroad Presidents Conference v. Noerr Motor Freight, Inc.\", 365 U.S. 127 (1961) and \"United Mine Workers v. Pennington\", 381 U.S. 657 (1965). The Court later expanded on the doctrine in \"California Motor Transport Co. v. Trucking Unlimited\", 404 U.S. 508 (1972).\n\nIn \"Noerr\", the Court held that \"no violation of the [Sherman] Act can be predicated upon mere attempts to influence the passage or enforcement of laws\". Similarly, the Court wrote in \"Pennington\" that \"[j]oint efforts to influence public officials do not violate the antitrust laws even though intended to eliminate competition.\" Finally, in \"California Motor Transport\", the Court added that \"the right to petition extends to all departments of the Government [and] [t]he right of access to the courts is indeed but one aspect of the right of petition.\"\n\nPursuant to this doctrine, immunity extends to attempts to petition all departments of the government. And \"if . . . conduct constitutes valid petitioning, the petitioner is immune from antitrust liability whether or not the injuries are caused by the act of petitioning or are caused by government action which results from the petitioning.\" \"A.d. Bedell Wholesale Company v. Philip Morris Incorporated\"., 263 F.3d at 251.\n\nUnder the Noerr–Pennington doctrine,\"[a] party who petitions the government for redress generally is immune from antitrust liability.\" \"Cheminor Drugs, Ltd. v. Ethyl Corp.\", 168 F.3d 119, 122 (3d Cir.), cert. denied, 528 U.S. 871, 145 L. Ed. 2d 146, 120 S. Ct. 173 (1999). Petitioning is immune from liability even if there is an improper purpose or motive. See \"E.R.R. Presidents Conference v. Noerr Motor Freight, Inc.\", 365 U.S. 127, 138, 5 L. Ed. 2d 464, 81 S. Ct. 523 (1961) (holding that even if the petitioner's sole purpose was to destroy its competition through passage of legislation, petitioner would be immune); \"Prof'l Real Estate Investors, Inc. v. Columbia Pictures Indus., Inc.\", 508 U.S. 49, 56, 123 L. Ed. 2d 611, 113 S. Ct. 1920 (1993) (same).\n\nNoerr–Pennington immunity applies to actions which might otherwise violate the Sherman Act because \"the federal antitrust laws do not regulate the conduct of private individuals in seeking anticompetitive action from the government.\" \"Omni\", 499 U.S. at 379-80. The antitrust laws are designed for the business world and \"are not at all appropriate for application in the political arena.\" \"Noerr\", 365 U.S. at 141. This was evident in \"Noerr\", where defendant railroads campaigned for legislation intended to ruin the trucking industry. Even though defendants employed deceptive and unethical means, the Supreme Court held that they were still immune. This is because the Sherman Act is designed to control \"business activity\" and not \"political activity.\" Id. at 129. With this underpinning, the Court stated, \"[Because] the right of petition is one of the freedoms protected by the Bill of Rights, . . . we cannot, of course, lightly impute to Congress an intent to invade these freedoms.\" \"Noerr\", 365 U.S. at 136. The antitrust laws were enacted to regulate private business and do not abrogate the right to petition.\n\nThe scope of Noerr–Pennington immunity, however, depends on the \"source, context, and nature of the competitive restraint at issue.\" \"Allied Tube & Conduit Corp. v. Indian Head, Inc.\", 486 U.S. 492, 499, 100 L. Ed. 2d 497, 108 S. Ct. 1931 (1988).\n\nSince its formulation, the doctrine has been extended to confer immunity from a variety of tort claims, including claims of unfair competition, tortious interference and abuse of process. See, e.g., \"Thermos Co. v. Igloo Products Corp.\", 1995 WL 745832, *6 (N.D. Ill. 1995) (holding that \"attempts to protect a valid and incontestable trademark\" are privileged under the Noerr–Pennington doctrine); \"Virtual Works, Inc. v. Network Solutions, Inc.\", 1999 WL 1074122 (E.D. Va. 1999) (applying the \"Noerr–Pennington\" doctrine to tortious interference claims); \"Brownsville Golden Age Nursing Home, Inc. v. Wells\", 839 F.2d 155, 159-60 (3d Cir. 1988) (recognizing applicability of the doctrine to abuse of process and other claims); \"Baltimore Scrap Corp. v. David J. Joseph Co.\", 81 F.Supp.2d 602, 620 (D.Md. 2000), aff'd, 237 F.3d 394 (4th Cir. 2001) (holding that \"Noerr–Pennington\" immunity applies to common law claims). The Ninth Circuit recently held that \"Noerr–Pennington\" also protects against RICO Act claims when a defendant has sent thousands of demand letters threatening suit. Sosa v. DirectTV, Inc., 437 F.3d 923, 935 (9th Cir. 2006)(pdf)\n\nThere is a \"sham\" exception to the Noerr–Pennington doctrine which holds that using the petitioning process simply as an anticompetitive tool without legitimately seeking a positive outcome to the petitioning destroys immunity. See \"Omni\", 499 U.S. 365, 113 L. Ed. 2d 382, 111 S. Ct. 1344.\n\nThe Supreme Court has articulated a two-part test to determine the existence of \"sham\" litigation. First, such suits must be \"objectively baseless in the sense that no reasonable litigant could realistically expect success on the merits.\" \"Professional Real Estate Investors, Inc. v. Columbia Pictures Indus.\" (\"PREI\"), . If that threshold is met, the court will inquire whether the suit demonstrates evidence of a subjective intent to use governmental process to interfere with a competitor's business.\n\nFor example, in \"California Motor Transport v. Trucking Unlimited\", 404 U.S. 508 (1972), the United States Supreme Court held that the \"Noerr–Pennington\" doctrine did \"not\" apply where defendants had sought to intervene in licensing proceedings for competitors, because the intervention was not based on a good-faith effort to enforce the law, but was solely for the purpose of harassing those competitors and driving up their costs of doing business. The \"sine qua non\" of a \"sham\" proceeding is not the purpose to harm a competitor, but rather the absence of any purpose to actually obtain government action. Thus, initiating an administrative proceeding that one actually hopes to win in order to harm one's competitors is within the ambit of the \"Noerr–Pennington\" doctrine, while initiating a similar proceeding that one does not meaningfully intend to win solely to delay one's business competitors is within the sham exception.\n\nIn 1993, the Supreme Court rejected a purely subjective definition of a \"sham\" lawsuit, and set out a two-part test. \"See\" \"Professional Real Estate Investors, Inc. v. Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc.\", 508 U.S. 49, 113 S.Ct. 1920, 1926 (1993). Under the first prong of the test, a lawsuit fits within the \"sham\" exception to First Amendment immunity only if the lawsuit is objectively baseless in that \"no reasonable litigant could realistically expect success on the merits.\" Only if the challenged litigation meets the first prong (\"objectively baseless\") may a court go on to the next prong, which consists of a determination of whether the litigant's subjective motivation in filing the objectively baseless lawsuit was an attempt to interfere with the business of a competitor.\n\n"}
{"id": "7985728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7985728", "title": "Outline of forensic science", "text": "Outline of forensic science\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to forensic science:\n\nForensic science – application of a broad spectrum of sciences to answer questions of interest to a legal system. This may be in matters relating to criminal law, civil law and regulatory laws. it may also relate to non-litigious matters. The term is often shortened to forensics.\n\nGeneral forensics topics include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n18. # P.Chandra Sekharan, 'LIP FORENSICS' (2011), ; Anand Publications, 143, SFS407, Yelahanka New Town, Bangalore 560 106; India\n\n19. P.Chandra Sekharan, \" The First Human Bomb; ALT Publications, Hyderabad -2\n\n"}
{"id": "13889182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13889182", "title": "Postcautionary principle", "text": "Postcautionary principle\n\nThe postcautionary principle is a principle of \"de facto\" environmental management formulated by John Paull in 2007. It is suggested that the postcautionary principle, as the antithesis of the precautionary principle, has guided environmental management, as it is actually practised. \n\nTaking the Rio 1982 formulation of the precautionary principle as a guide, the postcautionary principle has been stated as follows: \n\"Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, the lack of full scientific certainty shall be used as a reason for not implementing cost-effective measures until after the environmental degradation has actually occurred\" . \n\nExamples of this principle include: the extinction of the thylacine (Tasmanian tiger), which was, after decades of government bounty hunting (starting in 1888), declared a protected species on 10 July 1936 by the Fauna Board of Tasmania, only weeks before the last one died in captivity (on 7 September 1936); the 2003 Forestry Tasmania burning of Tasmania's largest tree \"El Grande\", a tree protected under legislation, and its subsequent demise, after which \"new standard operating procedures\" were implemented; and seven months after Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 disappeared without trace, the airline introduced a monitoring system where the onboard communication system will issue an electronic ping every few minutes\n\n"}
{"id": "4202325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4202325", "title": "Prediction theory of law", "text": "Prediction theory of law\n\nThe prediction theory of law was a key component of the Oliver Wendell Holmes' jurisprudential philosophy. At its most basic, the theory is an attempted refutation of most previous definitions of the law. Holmes believed that the law should be defined as a prediction, most specifically, a prediction of how the courts behave. His rationale was based on an argument regarding the opinion of a \"bad man.\" Bad men, Holmes argued in his speech \"The Path of the Law\", care little for ethics or lofty conceptions of natural law; instead they care simply about staying out of jail and avoiding the payment of damages. In Holmes's mind, therefore, it was most useful to define \"the law\" as a prediction of what will bring punishment or other consequences from a court.\n\nThe theory played a key role in influencing American Legal Realism.\n\nH. L. A. Hart criticized the theories in his \"The Concept of Law\" (1961). He argued that (1) they were blind to the internal point of view towards law, the sense shared by officials and law-abiding citizens that rules of law `ought' to be obeyed, and (2) they undervalue \"the ways in which the law is used to control, to guide, and to plan life out of court.\" As for the `bad man', Hart asks, \"Why should not law be equally if not more concerned with the `puzzled man' or `ignorant man' who is willing to do what is required, if only he can be told what it is? Or with the `man who wishes to arrange his affairs' if only he can be told how to do it?\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26610330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26610330", "title": "Professor of Jurisprudence (Glasgow)", "text": "Professor of Jurisprudence (Glasgow)\n\nThe Chair of Jurisprudence is a Professorship at the University of Glasgow, founded in 1952.\n\nThe chair was founded in 1952 and the first holder, David Walker, was appointed in 1954. Walker was himself a graduate of the Faculty of Law and would go on to become a distinguished legal scholar, being appointed Regius Professor of Law in 1958. In 1959, A E Anton was appointed to the chair. Anton was a solicitor, and served on the Scottish Law Commission from 1966 to 1982, was Literary Director of the Stair Society from 1960 to 1966, and was appointed CBE on his retirement from the chair in 1973. In 1978, Tom Campbell was appointed to the chair. Though not a graduate of the School of Law, Campbell was a Glasgow philosophy graduate and had been a Snell Exhibitioner at Balliol College, Oxford. He had then lectured in Social and Political Philosophy at Glasgow whilst writing his PhD, and in 1973 had been appointed Professor of Philosophy at the University of Stirling, before returning to Glasgow in 1978. Campbell left Glasgow in 1990 to become Professor of Law at the Australian National University, where he remained until his retirement in 2001. The previous holder, Scott Veitch, was appointed in 1999, having previously lectured at Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia. Veitch is now Paul K C Chung Professor in Jurisprudence at the University of Hong Kong. The current holder of the chair is Emilios Christodoulidis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53394326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53394326", "title": "Relationship evidence", "text": "Relationship evidence\n\nIn law of evidence, relationship evidence describes a particular class of circumstantial evidence - evidence of events and interactions between witnesses (often the accused and the complainant) extraneous to the offences charged. The admissibility of this type of evidence derives from common law principles that stand outside the direct operation of the Uniform Evidence Acts (\"UEA\").\n"}
{"id": "45420504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45420504", "title": "Revolt of the Pitauds", "text": "Revolt of the Pitauds\n\nThe revolt of the pitauds (French: \"jacquerie des Pitauds\", \"révolte des Pitauds\") was a French peasants' revolt in the mid-16th century.\n\nThe revolt was sparked by the 1541 decree of Châtellerault, which extended a salt tax to Angoumois and Saintonge (from a desire for royal centralisation). It was made compulsory to purchase salt from the salt loft (taxed salt). “\"Gabelle\"” officers took charge of punishing the unlawful trading of salt. But these were salt pan areas where the salt was freely traded. Salt smuggling (\"faux-saunage\") spread rapidly, especially after the Marennes and La Rochelle revolts in 1542, and the repression by the salt riders is out of the population acceptance.\n\nIn 1548, riots break out in Angoumois and Saintonge demanding the release of the smugglers (\"faux-sauniers\"). The \"de Pitauds\" revolt grew to 20,000 members, led by a lord and joined by priests. Castles were plundered and salt-tax collectors killed. The revolt spread to Bordeaux where 20 salt tax collectors were killed, including the lieutenant governor, on August 21, 1548.\n\nKing Henry II blockaded Bordeaux and launched his repression. Bordeaux lost its privileges. It was disarmed, paid a fine, saw its parliament suspended, and 1,401 people were sentenced to death. The repression spread to the countryside where the leaders were hanged: neither priests nor gentlemen were spared.\n\nThe salt-tax was finally abolished in these provinces in June 1549, the provinces became redeemed countries, and the King issued a general amnesty.\n"}
{"id": "4852431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4852431", "title": "Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984", "text": "Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984\n\nThe Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 is an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom, which provided powers to regulate or restrict traffic on UK roads, in the interest of safety. It superseded some earlier legislation, including the majority of the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1967. The Act is split into 10 parts covering 147 sections, it also includes 14 schedules.\n\nPart 1 includes sections 1 to 13 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\n\nPart 2 includes sections 14 to 22 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\n\nPart 3 includes sections 23 to 31 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\n\nPart 4 includes sections 32 to 63 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\n\nPart 5 includes sections 64 to 80 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\n\nPart 6 includes sections 81 to 91 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\n\nPart 7 includes sections 92 to 94 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\n\nPart 8 includes sections 95 to 111 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\n\nPart 9 includes sections 112 to 121 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\n\nPart 10 includes sections 122 to 147 of the Act. The legislation contained in these sections covers:\n\n\nThe Act contains 14 schedules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35349947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35349947", "title": "Roman Tokarczyk", "text": "Roman Tokarczyk\n\nRoman Andrzej Tokarczyk (born March 1942 in Gródki, Poland) is a legal scholar and philosopher, full professor, lecturing at the Faculty of Law and Administration, Maria Curie-Sklodowska University (UMCS) in Lublin, Poland, and at the Faculty of Management and Administration of the Zamość University of Management and Administration. He specializes in ethics, history of political law doctrines, comparative legal studies, philosophy of law and in American law. He has authored popular books in these fields and translated works of Hobbes and Fuller.\n\nIn 1961 Roman Tokarczyk finished Pedagogical High School in Biłgoraj; in 1966 he graduated with MA degrees in law and philosophy from UMCS. He served as councilor of the Municipal People's Council in Lublin in 1969–1973. Awarded a PhD degree in 1970, he received a postdoctoral degree (Habilitation) in 1976. He was appointed professor extraordinary in 1990 and full professor in 1994.\n\nSince 1979 he has been Head of the Department of Theory of Organization and Management, Faculty of Law and Administration. From 1996 to 2000 he was Dean of the Faculty of Law and Economics, of the Studii Generalis Sandomiriensis College of Humanities and Natural Sciences in Sandomierz. From 1993–1997 he served as member of the Trybunału Stanu. He was professor at the University of Rzeszów and Radom Academy of Economics in Radom.\n\nHe spent research stays as a Fulbright fellow inter alia at the International Research and Exchange Board in New York City, at the University of Notre Dame, Harvard, University of California, Berkeley, UCLA and under the NATO Foundation in Paris, Rome, Vienna, and Copenhagen.\nHe has supervised 2,311 bachelor's and master's degree theses and reviewed 3,212 of them. He has supervised nine doctoral dissertations (PhDs awarded) and seven pending doctoral procedures, and also reviewed 18 doctoral dissertations and eleven Habilitationsschrifts (postdoctoral dissertations). He has prepared opinions for several procedures of conferment of professorial titles and has reviewed the motion for the conferral procedure of the honorary doctoral degree.\n\nHe is a member of many scholarly organizations, including Polska Akademia Medycyny (the Polish Medical Academy), Polish Academy of Sciences (PAN) Committees, the New York Academy of Sciences, and the Executive Committee of the International Communal Studies Association.\n\nTokarczyk introduced the term 'biojurisprudence' as a branch of the science of law which deals with the regulations of threats to human life from the moment of conception to death. He also introduced the following terms: 'biolaw' (legal regulations of problems concerning the subject of biojurisprudence), 'biojusgenesis' (religious, moral and legal problems concerning the normative protection of the conceived human being and human fetus), 'biojustherapy' (religious, moral and legal problems of the normative protection of human life from birth to death), and 'biojusthanatology' (normative problems concerning human death – religious, moral and legal).\n\nDecorations include Bronze, Silver and Gold Crosses of Merit, the Bronze Medal of merit for Defense of the Country, an Honorary Badge for Merit for the Lublin Region, and Badge for Merit for the Zamość Province, along with many other medals, diplomas and awards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50871785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50871785", "title": "Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice", "text": "Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice\n\nThe Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice (OJ L173) are a part of EU law concerning how the Court of Justice of the European Union should function.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8056336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8056336", "title": "Short and distort", "text": "Short and distort\n\n\"Short and distort\" is a type of securities fraud in which Internet investors short sell a stock and then spread negative rumors about the company in an attempt to drive down stock prices. \n\nOne way of shorting and distorting involves the sale of a security that is not even owned by the seller, but is either rented or borrowed, with the specific purpose of selling it to another person, then spreading untruthful, negative information to tank its stock price.\n\nIt is often performed as a form of naked short selling in which stock is sold without being borrowed and without any intent to borrow. Once the stock price has declined, the investor uses the proceeds of the initial sale to buy a larger number of the company's shares than sold originally. Some of the newly purchased stock is used to fulfill the short-selling contract; the remaining shares are then offered for sale, which causes an additional decline in the company's share price.\n\nDuring the takeover of The Bear Stearns Companies by J.P. Morgan Chase in March 2008, reports swirled that short sellers were spreading rumors to drive down Bear Stearns' share price. Democratic Senator Christopher Dodd felt this was more than rumors and said, \"This is about collusion.\" Chase was victimized by a similar \"short and distort\" scheme six years earlier when rumors arose about its purported relationship with Enron.\n\n"}
{"id": "10921472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10921472", "title": "Teosto", "text": "Teosto\n\nTeosto (Finnish: Säveltäjäin Tekijänoikeustoimisto Teosto r.y.) is a non-profit performance rights organization that collects royalties on behalf of songwriters and composers in Finland. Teosto is a member of the Confédération Internationale des Sociétés d'Auteurs et Compositeurs (CISAC). It represents 29 000 Finnish, and nearly three million foreign composers, songwriters, arrangers and publishers. The organization's clients are 29,000 music-using companies and communities.\n\nTeosto has 75 important people making decisions. Its CEO has been Katri Sipilä since 2001, and composer Kim Kuusi as chairman since 2011.\n\nTeosto paid its clients 52.3 million euros in 2014 and with reimbursements from other organizations, Teosto's revenue grew up to 60.1 million euros. Part of that revenue are reimbursements from foreign sister-organizations for using Finnish music abroad, and reimbursements from the Danish Nordisk Copyright Bureau (NCB) for Finnish pieces as well as a lending compensation for music recordings and lending of music notes from libraries. \n\nA Group of Finnish music makers and publishers founded the organization in 1928 to regulate their rights.\n\nAccording to the organization's website:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50367790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50367790", "title": "Timeline of animal welfare and rights in the United States", "text": "Timeline of animal welfare and rights in the United States\n\nThis page is a timeline of the major events in the history of animal welfare and rights in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "1907268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907268", "title": "Trial of the century", "text": "Trial of the century\n\nTrial of the century is an idiomatic phrase used to describe certain well-known court cases, especially of the 20th century. It is often used popularly as a rhetorical device to attach importance to a trial and as such is not an objective observation but is the opinion of whoever uses it. As attorney F. Lee Bailey and \"The Washington Post\" observed in 1999 on the eve of the closing century:\nThe first trial to be called the \"trial of the century\" was in 1907 when Harry K. Thaw was tried for the murder of Stanford White. Irvin S. Cobb, a contemporary reporter, explained why the trial fascinated the country so much:\nThere are countless trials that have been labeled \"the trial of the century\" by the press; it is beyond the scope of this article to list them here. However, some legal scholars have labeled a few trials as \"trials of the century\". These cases are useful in this context for listing some of the most important trials, which include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30963746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30963746", "title": "Wife selling", "text": "Wife selling\n\nWife selling is the practice of a husband selling his wife and may include the sale of a female by a party outside a marriage. Wife selling has had numerous purposes throughout the practice's history; and the term \"wife sale\" is not defined in all sources relating to the topic.\n\nSometimes, a wife was sold by a husband to a new husband as a means of divorce, in which case sometimes the wife was able to choose who would be her new husband, provided she chose within a certain time period, and especially if the wife was young and sexually attractive. In some societies, the wife could buy her own way out of a marriage or either spouse could have initiated this form of divorce. Reducing a husband's liability for family support and prenuptial debts was another reason for wife sale. Taxes were sometimes paid by selling a wife and children and paying the value as the required amount, especially when taxes were too high to permit basic survival. Famine leading to starvation was a reason for some sales. Gambling debts could be paid by selling a free or slave wife. A society might not allow a woman the rights reserved to men regarding spouse sale and a society might deny her any rights if her husband chose to sell her, even a right of refusal. A divorce that was by mutual consent but was without good faith by the wife at times caused the divorce to be void, allowing her to then be sold. A husband might sell his wife and then go to court seeking compensation for the new man's adultery with the wife. By one law, adultery was given as a justification for a husband selling his wife into concubinage.\n\nA free wife might be sold into slavery, such as if she had married a serf or her husband had been murdered. Sometimes, a slave-master sold an enslaved wife. Enslaved families were often broken up and wives, husbands, and children sold to separate buyers, often never to see each other again, and a threat to sell a wife was used to keep an enslaved husband under a master's discipline. In wartime, one side might, possibly falsely, accuse the other of wife sale as a method of spying. A wife could also be treated as revenue and seized by the local government because a man had died leaving no heirs. \"Wife sale\" was sometimes the description for the sale of a wife's services; it might be for a term of years followed by freedom. If a sale was temporary, in some cases wife sale was considered temporary only in that the sold-and-remarried wife would, upon her death, be reunited with her first husband.\n\nConstraints existed in law and practice and there were criticisms. Some societies specifically forbade wife sales, even imposing death upon husbands violating the law, but a legal proscription was sometimes avoided or evaded, such as by arranging an adoption with a payment and an outcome similar to that of a sale. A society might tax or fine a wife sale without banning it. The nearness of a foreign military sometimes constrained a master in a slave sale that otherwise would have divided a family. Among criticisms, some of the sales (not of services alone but entirely of wives) have been likened to sales of horses. Wives for sale were treated like capital assets or commodities. One law made wives into husbands' chattels. Other sales were described as brutal, patriarchal, and feudalistic. Wife sales were equated with slavery. One debate about the whole of Africa was whether Africans viewed the practice as no crime at all or as against what Africans thought valuable and dear. Some modern popular songs against wife sale are vehicles for urban antipoverty and feminist organizing for rights. A story in a popular collection written by a feminist was about a suggestion for wife sale and the wife's objection to discussing it followed by no wife sale occurring. Another story is about a feminist advocate for justice in which a husband is censored or censured for selling his wife in a gamble.\n\nWife selling has been found in many societies over many centuries and occasionally into modern times, including the United States (including in Hawaii among the Japanese, among Indians in the Gallinomero, Yurok, Carolina, and Florida tribes and in the Pacific Northwest, and among natives on Kodiak Island in what is now Alaska), Colombia, England, Australia (among aborigines), Denmark (possibly), Hungary, France, Germany, India, Japan, Malaya (among Chinese laborers), Thailand (at least permitted), Northern Asia (among the Samoyads), Asia Minor (among the Yourouk), Kafiristan, Indonesia (albeit not outright), Tanganyika, Congo, Bamum, Central Africa (among the Baluba), Zambia, South Africa (among Chinese laborers), Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Nigeria (possibly), Abyssinia, Egypt, Lombardy, ancient Rome (sometimes as a legal fiction and sometimes as actual), ancient Greece, and ancient Emar (of Syria). In Rwanda, it was the subject of a wartime accusation. Specific bans existed in Thailand, Indonesia, ancient Rome, and ancient Israel and partial bans existed in England and Japan. Wife sale was a topic of popular culture in India, the U.S., China, Scandinavia, Nepal, Guatemala, and the Dutch Indies. It has been found under several major religions, including Christianity and Islam.\n\nThe English custom of wife selling largely began in the late 17th century when divorce was a practical impossibility for all but the very wealthy. In the ritualized form, after parading his wife with a halter around her neck, arm, or waist, a husband would publicly auction her to the highest bidder. Although the custom had no basis in law and frequently resulted in prosecution, particularly from the mid-19th century onwards, the attitude of the authorities was equivocal. At least one early 19th-century magistrate is on record as stating that he did not believe he had the right to prevent wife sales, and there were cases of local Poor Law Commissioners forcing husbands to sell their wives, rather than having to maintain the family in workhouses. The English custom of wife selling spread to Wales, Scotland, Australia, and the United States before dying out in the early 20th century.\n\nIn 1781, in South Carolina, a \"Bill of Sale\" of a \"Wife and Property\" for \"Two Dollars and half Dozen Bowls of Grogg\", the buyer \"to have my said Wife for ever and a Day\", is, according to Richard B. Morris, \"unique of its kind\". According to Morris, \"although the administration of the law was in a somewhat unsettled state during this [\"British\"] military occupation [of Charleston], neither at common law nor under the marriage laws then in force in South Carolina would the sale of a wife have been valid\". The document likely was a way, wrote Morris, for \"dissolving the marriage bond\" since the state forbade divorce \"and the marriage laws of the Church of England were widely disregarded among the poorer whites and in the back country\", but it could also have been intended to reduce the husband's liability for debts for support of the wife and her children and for her pre-wedding debts, while it was unlikely to have been for the sale of a Black slave or an indentured servant, though being for the sale of an Indian woman or a mestizo, while unlikely, was not impossible.\n\nThe Carolina tribe of Native Americans, according to William Christie MacLeod, as reported in 1925, engaged in debtor slavery, where \"slave\" is defined by the Carolinas as \"that which is obsequiously to depend on the master for subsistence\". According to MacLeod quoting J. Lawson, \"if a man takes a widow ... laden with her husband's debts, she seems to have some of the attributes of a chattel, although also a wife. Her husband may ... '... take her for his money paid to her deceased husband's creditors, and sell her to another for his wife. \"[Lawson had] seen several of these bargains driven in a day\", and \"[Lawson said] you may see men selling their wives as men do horses at a fair, a man being allowed not only to change as often as he pleases but likewise to have as many wives as he is able to maintain.\"\n\nAccording to George Elliott Howard, as published in 1904, \"if dissatisfied with his wife, the young Gallinomero of [California] ... may 'strike a bargain with another man' and sell her 'for a few strings of shell-money. Also according to Howard, as published in 1904, \"among the California Yurok 'divorce is very easily accomplished at the will of the husband, the only indispensable formality being that he must receive back from his father-in-law the money which he paid for his spouse.'\n\nIn the late 17th–mid 18th centuries, among some Indian tribes of the Pacific Northwest, according to Elsie Frances Dennis, two Indians of unspecified tribe or tribes had been killed and \"the widow and two daughters of one were wailing, for they were to be sold as slaves.\" Not all tribes of the region and time sold wives; according to Dennis, \"Ross said that he never knew a single instance in which a Chinook or one of the neighboring tribes ever sold his wife\".\n\nIn 1802–1803, among native people on Kodiak (Kad'iak) Island, in present-day Alaska and that was then part of Russia, according to Gavriil Ivanovich Davydov, \"marital fidelity is not always considered a virtue by the islanders [\"Koniagas\"], and in many cases a husband will sell his wife for a small present.\"\n\nIn Florida, apparently \"c.\" in the 16th century, according to an unnamed \"eye-witness\", among Florida Indians, \"the ruler has power to give or rather to sell wives to those desirous of marriage.\"\n\nAccording to W. R. Riddell, \"a ... man with some Negro blood ... had a ... daughter ... showing little trace of Negro origin. It was understood that she would marry no one but a white man, and that the father was willing to give her a handsome dowry on such a marriage. A person of pure Caucasian stock from the Southern States came to Toronto, wooed and won her. They were married and the husband took his bride to his home in the South. Not long afterwards the father was horrified to learn that the plausible scoundrel had sold his wife as a slave. He at once went South and after great exertion and much expense, he succeeded in bringing back to his house the unhappy woman, the victim of brutal treachery.\"\n\nNot all people of African descent in the New York City area in 1776–1783 were slaves. In some cases, records may not reveal their status. A \"group of black men ... [were being \"court martial[led]\" for] killing a white slaveowner (who had just sold the wife of one of the accused in New York City)\".\n\nIn 1863, William W. Ryan, II, who had opposed slavery and secession and had enlisted into Union military service, was discharged from the military. According to his daughter, Margaret Ryan Kelley, he came home and \"brought with him a negro named August\", whom he paid. According to her, August said, \"his white folks ... had sold his wife 'down the river.' It was a source of constant grief for him... When he had $200, he intended to return to Virginia and find his people.\"\n\nCases were reported from different states. A slave born in North Carolina who moved 50 miles recalled that, while she was between 5 and 8 years old, here, he [unspecified who] sold my mother to New Orleans, leaving my father at home.' ... Her master moved to Alabama, and died ..., leaving behind unpaid bills and seven slaves, all of whom a sheriff sold, save for her father\", according to Daniel Meaders. According to Isaac Johnson, in childhood a slave, his \"mother was stolen ... from ... Madagascar\", \"given\" to Johnson's grandfather, evaluated as a \"servant\", and \"bequeathed\" to Johnson's father in Kentucky and Johnson's father \"used Jane in all respects as a wife and she, in her innocence, supposed she was such\". In \"c.\" 1851, Johnson's father, who had decided to move and therefore to sell his \"farm and stock\", ordered the sale of Johnson's mother and her children. No bids were offered for the mother with a 2-year-old child, but when they were separated she was sold for $1,100. Thomas Hughes, according to Meaders and Hopper, was a slave \"who had apparently taken a large sum of money\" from his Louisiana master and left, after which he was tried and sentenced. During his imprisonment, the master visited him, brought Hughes' wife, and promised that if Thomas Hughes went south the master would manumit her' and would not 'attempt to make a slave of him. But, according to Meaders and Hopper, they reached Baltimore, ... [the master] had sold his wife, and intended to make a slave of him' ... [however,] Hughes left\". An \"old slave\" from \"near Memphis\" told a soldier (Chauncey H. Cooke) that \"his master sold his wife and children to a cotton planter in Alabama to pay his gambling debts, and when he told his master he couldn't stand it, he was tied to the whipping post stripped and given 40 lashes. The next night he ran to the swamps. The bloodhounds were put on his track and caught him ... This happened in sight of Nashville, the capital of Tennessee. I told this to some of the boys and they said it was all bosh, that the niggers were lying to me. But this story was just like the ones in \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" and I believe them. And father knows of things very much like this that are true.\" According to Mark P. Leone, reviewing a modern-day historical exhibition in Virginia of Carter's Grove plantation, a \"slave overseer was kept in place with threats to sell his wife\".\n\nOn the other hand, during the American Revolution, \"blacks who remained with their owners found that with the British army so near, they had leverage with their masters they had never before enjoyed.\" An \"advertisement announced the sale of a young Negro woman with four children. 'They are not sold for any fault,' claimed the seller, but because the woman had a husband in town and the mistress did not want to part them. While it is entirely possible that the owner acted out of humanitarian motivation, her liberality may have been influenced by her slave's enhanced chances for successful flight.\"\n\nJapanese immigration to Hawaii was promoted during the late 19th century, but their number included a low proportion of women. The first generation of Japanese immigrants to the islands (Issei) lived at a distance from their original communities. According to Eileen Tamura, this isolation, combined with failure of the expectation of earning enough to return, resulted in a temporary disintegration of social norms, and the disintegration led to wife-selling. The sheriff of the island of Hawaii, E. G. Hitchcock, wrote in 1892 that \"I wish to call your attention to the fact, more or less prevalent on this island, of the Japanese selling their wives or mistresses to each other.\" In 1901 and 1904, the sheriff of Maui wrote that \"In connection with Japanese the custom they have of trafficing in their women, buying and selling their wives is an evil that should be looked into,\" and proposed that laws explicitly prohibiting wife-selling be enacted. In a personal narrative related by Joan Hori, the question \"Why would anyone want a second-hand wife?\" was posed; the response was that the prospect of a wife already present in the islands was more certain than that of a picture bride.\n\nThe Chinese custom of wife selling or 'selling a divorce' () has a long history, spanning both the Imperial and Modern eras.\n\nAccording to 14th-century scholar Wei Su quoted by Paul J. Smith, \"early in the dynasty, ... the system for assessing taxes and labor services was based ... on household size. As a result ... the poor got even poorer. Poor folk sold their wives and children to meet their payments to the state\".\n\nThe earliest documented ban of the practice appears in Yuan Dynasty law dating to the 14th century. At that time, two types of wife selling were recognized, both considered illegal. The first type was when a husband sold his wife to a man with whom she had been committing adultery. The second type was when a husband sold his wife because she had betrayed him or because they were no longer able to get along. During the Ming Dynasty, it was gradually established that only wife selling motivated by adultery should be punished. By 1568, wife selling was explicitly authorized by the law in several circumstances. Authorized wife selling was preserved by Qing Dynasty lawmakers, as was the prohibition against selling a wife to her lover.\n\nFamines are related to wife sale. In 1834, about Kiang-si province, the missionary Mathieu-Ly said of \"starvation ... [that] crops have been swept away by the inundation of the rivers... [Some] people ... eat ... [expensive] earth ... The people first sold their wives, then sons and daughters, then their utensils and furniture; finally they demolished their houses in order to dispose of the timber.\" A 19th-century source characterized the practice as conventional among the lower classes in China: \"The poorer people take their wives for an agreed term, and buy and sell them at pleasure.\"\n\nAccording to Howard, as published in 1904, \"by Chinese law ... when the wife is guilty of adultery ... [if] the woman not be slain, ... the husband may ... sell her as a concubine, provided he has not pandered to the crime or does not sell her to the guilty man.\"\n\nAlso according to Howard, as published in 1904, in China, \"a marriage may be dissolved by mutual agreement\" \"but the agreement ... must be in good faith. Should the wife plan the divorce so as to form a punishable relation with another man, it is void, and the husband may ... sell her to another as in the case of unfaithfulness\".\n\nIn 1928–1930, in Shensi, there was a famine and, according to a local newspaper and Leonard T. K. Wu, peasants who \"had already mortgaged and sold all their lands on which they formerly made a living\" then sold their wives.\n\nAs the Chinese Communist Party came to power in 1949, wife selling was prohibited and the government took measures to eradicate the practice. During the famines caused by the Great Leap Forward, wife selling occurred in many of the poorer areas. As of 1997, the custom was still occasionally reported in some rural areas of the country.\n\nIn Tokugawa Japan (1600–1868), according to J. Mark Ramseyer and Takeyoshi Kawashima, \"men routinely sold their wives and children or rented them long-term ... [and this] was endemic to the brutality of Asiatic patriarchal feudalism\". Ramseyer continued, \"sales and adoptions were transfers in perpetuity\", the difference being that sales were sometimes legally banned so that adoptions were likely used as an alternative to like effect, with payment in a like direction. Sales were essentially into slavery. Published sales and adoptions known to Ramseyer totalled 52 contracts in 1601–1860, of the 52 35 being of females and 17 being of males, transfers including children, depending on each contract. After 1740, sale \"contracts ... largely disappeared\", largely because of a growing demand for nonagricultural labor, making absconding or running away easier and more profitable.\n\nIn 16th–17th-century Mughal India, according to Irfan Habib, although imperial regulations limited state revenue demands to approximately that which would permit the peasantry to survive, the local collectors often lacked willingness to comply, \"violated or evaded\" the regulations, and overestimated peasants' ability to pay. Despite at least one order that  ... the seizure and sale of the women and children of the combatants\", \"frequently ... peasants were compelled to sell their women, children and cattle in order to meet the revenue demand... But the enslavement was not generally so voluntary as even this. 'Villages', we are told, 'which owing to some shortage of produce, are unable to pay the full amount of the revenue-farm, are made prize, so to speak, by their masters and governors, and wives and children sold on the pretext of a charge of rebellion'... 'They (the peasants) are carried off, attached to heavy iron chains, to various markets and fairs (to be sold), with their poor, unhappy wives behind them carrying their small children in their arms, all crying and lamenting their evil plight.\n\nAlso, in Bengal, in approximately the same time period, according to Habib, \"if any peasant or stranger died without leaving a son [or \"died without heirs\"] ... his wife and daughters were seized [as a \"source of revenue\"] for the benefit, depending upon the locality, of the ... [\"imperial treasury\"], the ... [local \"potentate\"] or the 'dominant ... [\"vassal chief\", \"landlord\", or \"chief\"]'.\" This practice, called \"ankora\", may have been abolished.\n\nAs reported in 1897 by William Lee-Warner, \"husbands sold their wives from motives of enmity as well as gain. The selling price of girls and women was at all times from four to ten times greater than that of males.\"\n\nIn the Western Punjab, in or before 1911, according to A. J. O'Brien, among Muslims, a man \"proceeded to sell his wife\" to a member of another tribe and a dispute developed on other grounds and was resolved in which \"the right of disposal by relatives was freely admitted\".\n\nIn 2009, there were reports of impoverished farmers in the Bundelkhand region of India selling their wives to settle debts; the frequency of such cases is unknown.\n\nIn Africa generally, according to Parker Shipton in 1990, \"husbands sometimes sell wives [during famines or food shortages], but not vice versa\". On the other hand, responding to a charge by David Hume that Africans \"think it no crime to sell one another\", African philosopher Ottobah Cugoano wrote, \"nothing could be more opposite to everything that they hold dear and valuable\".\n\nIn West Africa, under the Aro Confederacy, according to David Graeber, \"a man who simply disliked his wife and was in need of brass rods could always come up with some reason to sell her, and the village elders—who received a share of the profits—would almost invariably concur.\"\n\nIn northern Tanganyika, in the Masai district, in 1955, according to Robert F. Gray, the Sonjo transfer \"wives—that is to say, wife rights\". Among the Sonjo, wrote Gray, \"a lively system of economic exchange ... also encompasses the sale and purchase of rights in women, who in their economic aspects are dealt with much like other commodities.\" According to Gray, \"when a husband dies, his wife rights are inherited by his eldest surviving brother. In this respect wives are dealt with in a different manner from other forms of property ... A brother may take the widow as his wife ... A brother may also sell the wife rights in the widow to another man, but in order to understand this transaction we must consider a mystical aspect of Sonjo marriage. It is believed that when a married person dies he will ultimately be reunited with his spouse in the spirit world. This belief is expressed in a myth: In former times the dead sometimes returned to earth to help their relatives here, but the last spirit to so materialize on earth was insulted and vowed that thereafter the dead would remain forever in the spirit world; she explained before departing that the spirits of dead husband and wives waited in the spirit world for their spouses to die, and were then reunited with them there. This belief has a practical bearing on bride-price transactions. Thus when a husband dies, the brother who inherits the widow may sell his rights in her to another man for the fixed price of thirty goats. This relatively small sum of less than half the woman's normal bride-price is explained by the belief in spirit marriage, for the new husband only acquires full wife rights in the woman in this world; after she dies she will rejoin her original husband in the spirit world. A second husband loses possession of her ghost. [¶] This reduced bride-price for a widow cannot be explained as resulting from a deterioration in her value as a wife.\" In case of divorce, stated Gray, a \"husband exchanges his wife rights with another man for a sum of goats. It is convenient to say that he 'sells' his wife, because the form of the transaction is basically the same as those in which he exchanges or sells other goods. Thus a young wife is treated economically as a commodity. Later in life she outgrows this status, partly because her sexual attractions wane, but of more importance is the fact that her children grow up and are betrothed ... This stabilizes her position in the community\". Gray continued, a \"young woman's value as a wife is not generally thought to be depreciated just because she was previously married, and a husband in selling a wife attempts to regain the same bride-price that he paid for her, which was originally based mainly on the social status of her parental family ... [with the price subject to] supply and demand ... [Some] restrictions limit the probability of finding a buyer in the same village ... After a buyer has been found, the wife is always given a grace period for finding a more desirable second husband before she is required to marry the man found by her husband. No physical coercion on the part of the husband is involved in the sale of a wife. The compulsive factor resides in the social structure, in which there is no regular position except as a wife for a young woman who was once married. However, a Sonjo husband has a special power, sanctioned by the community, over a wife whom he wishes to sell: if no acceptable buyer can be found within the tribe, he can sell her to the Masai, whose demands for Sonjo women and children seem to provide an unfailing market.\" Gray wrote, \"if a woman ... behaves so as to make herself unsatisfactory as a wife she may induce her husband to sell her to another man of her choice, and thus has some means of protecting her own interest. This system of wife purchase is quite flexible in operation and seems to allow a woman as much freedom of choice—admittedly little—as is found in most other African societies.\" According to Gray, \"children ... stay with their mother ... when she is sold and are adopted by her new husband.\" Gray wrote, \"only young wives, childless or with young children, are normally considered saleable, and the price paid usually equals or is near the original bride-price, though that is never exceeded. In at least one case an older woman [\"of about forty\"] was sold by her husband for a considerably reduced price.\" Gray continued, \"in these divorces ... payment is made ... only to her original husband [not to her father]. The village council, however, levies a tax of seven goats on these transactions ... This fee or tax is no doubt indicative of some underlying disapproval of the selling of wives. Most of these goats, like those collected in fines, are sacrificed ... When wives are exchanged rather than sold, the tax is only four goats ..., which accords with the general opinion that exchanging wives is preferable to selling them.\"\n\nIn East Congo, among the Baguha, as reported in 1926 by Melville J. Herskovitz, if a bride-price is given at marriage and, for a reason, returnable but \"is not returned, the man may sell his wife to recover the amount he gave for her, a custom distinctly not East African\".\n\nIn Bamum, a kingdom, in what is now Cameroon, in the 19th–20th centuries, according to Aboubakar Njiasse Njoya, \"in rare cases, ... when a husband was no longer on good terms with his freeborn wife, for whom he had paid a very high brideprice, he simply sold her without informing his parents-in-law.\" According to Njiasse Njoya, a minority of slaves \"were a product of ... disgruntled or dissatisfied husbands.\" Thus, a freeborn wife was sold into slavery when her husband was no longer on good terms with her. A \"slave\" is defined by Njiasse Njoya as \"a human being who has been deprived of his freedom and is totally in the possession of his master or state, who uses him at will.\" A French administrator in 1919 \"explained to [\"the king\"] the French decree ... which prohibited slavery... [and] demanded [of the king] that husbands cease selling their wives when they no longer satisfy them\".\n\n\"The Baluba [from the south-east in Central Africa in the 1880s] ... do not understand that there is any wrong in selling their wives and children; as these are property they consider themselves entitled to dispose of them at their pleasure\", according to Ludwig Wolf, whose expedition met the Baluba \"c.\" or after November, 1884, and in 1885. Wolf continued, \"since the Baluba have come into contact with the Kioque and Bangala, trading tribes from the Lunda country and from Kuango, they are getting provided with guns and powder, for which they barter children, girls, and even their own wives.\" Wolf argued to a Baluba chief \"how wrong it was to sell their own wives, ... [and the chief said], rather in confidence, that they only sold their troublesome wives out of the country, never the good ones.\" (The Baluba, said Wolf, distinguished \"between domestic slaves and slaves for export ... [by which] latter are usually troublesome individuals whom they want to get rid of\".)\n\nIn Southern Zambia, among the Toka, in the early 20th century, according to Gisela Geisler, \"often women were ... hired out or even 'sold' against payment of cash to interested men by their own husbands.\" Geisler continued, \"migrant labourers and African public servants ... had a particular interest in 'temporary marriages ...' ... [which] granted them unlimited access to the domestic and sexual services ... [and they] must have been ... fairly common in Livingstone\". Geisler continued, \"while these practices offered single women some possibilities of survival in town, ... they also meant that women could take on the character of moveable capital assets in the hands of men.\" In the British colonial court established in 1906, \"men who claimed to be 'legal' husbands accused 'temporary' husbands of adultery and demanded compensation, particularly if the bartered woman refused to return to her original husband. In one such case, a 'husband' demanded compensation from a 'temporary' husband because the latter had extended the agreed upon time with the former's wife without paying further monies... Another man, who had sold his wife temporarily to a Lozi, demanded a court order for the return of his wife as well as outstanding payments... Other husbands accused their wives in court of having misappropriated payments from their 'temporary' husbands.\" In a 1910 case, Geisler reported, a man objected that his daughter's husband \"had sold her to another man\", not because the father, who was a headman, was \"concerned about the moral issue\", but because \"he had not been paid bridewealth from the new husband.\" Geisler also reported, in 1912 a rural Toka man's brother had died and the man had inherited his brother's wife and \"he had passed the wife on to another man against payment ..., [which was] the exact sum his late brother had paid ... [and] new husband had sold the woman to yet another man\" and a fresh payment was demanded. Geisler found another complication: After the court revised how it dealt with adultery, partly by forcing a divorce on the husband who was suing, and until \"the enactment of the Native Court Ordinance of 1929\", \"husbands, who had previously tried to profit financially from in effect selling their wives to other men and then charging them for adultery compensation before the urban court, now had to fear that bringing such charges might well imply that they lost their wife, the main asset for further deals of the kind.\" Geisler wrote, \"women ... never had access to the money and goods that passed among the hands of men for rights over them, and ... they were not concerned about morality, [so] women could [until the passage of the 1929 law] to a certain extent move between men on their own accord and in their own right.\"\n\nIn South Africa, among Chinese laborers in 1904–1910, according to Gary Kynoch, gambling was \"prolific\" and unpaid debts often led to suicide and sales of wives and children.\n\nIn what is now western Burkina Faso, in Souroudougou, in the 1890s, \"household heads often resorted to selling their wives and children to passing merchants for cowries or millett, with no option for re-purchase... became actual commodities that were bartered (not loaned) away.\" In addition, if a family (\"a man, his wife and children\") went to the countryside, \"bandits who [\"often\"] hid ... would trap the family, and perhaps kill the man. The mother and her children would be sold as slaves.\"\n\nIn Eastern Ethiopia, wives were sold, a practice apart from that of bride price in Africa.\n\nIn southeast Nigeria before it was colonized, according to David Northrup, \"goods brought by visiting traders proved irresistible to many. Yet there was little that could be given in exchange for such goods: ivory, salt, fancy textiles, metalware, and, of course, slaves... For many people slaves were the only real possibility. The more venturesome or powerful might hope to ... sell an adulterous wife ... But ... [this] would not have been within the range of possibilities open to the average person.\"\n\nIn Colombia under Spanish colonial rule, particularly in 1750–1826, according to David L. Chandler, Spanish law \"allowed slaves to marry and establish a family even against the master's wishes ... and prohibited ... [the family's] separation through sale... of the slave family was not very common.\" If a slave couple was broken up by the sale of one spouse out of an area, Chandler wrote, the other spouse, even after 10 years, could petition a court to allow the latter slave to find a buyer so the couple could reunite; such cases, in which the wife was sold first and the husband second, were litigated in 1802 and 1806. In 1808, reported Chandler, a master had sold a slave husband to another master; after a dispute between the slaves and the selling master, the master who sold the husband was subsequently ordered by a court to sell the slave's wife to the other master as well, so the slave family would be able to live together and not merely have visits; and the court order was complied with.\n\nIn ancient Rome, the 'power of life and killing' (\"vitae necisque potestas\", more commonly 'power of life and death') was vested in the husband over his wife in some circumstances, the husband being the \"pater familias\" or 'head of the household'. According to Keith Bradley, Augustine wrote that \"there was a man (a Christian at that) who had sold his wife into slavery because he preferred to have the cash\". According to Edward Gibbon, in the earlier period of Eastern Roman society, a husband could sell his wife, because she was counted among his children and he could sell them. According to Bruce W. Frier and Thomas A. J. McGinn, \"it was apparently illegal for a husband to sell his wife [if in \"manus\"], to give her in adoption, or to execute her even for serious misconduct without first consulting a \"consilium\" of relatives,\" thus possibly lawful after the \"consilium\". However, according to Paul du Plessis, \"the husband did not have the power of life and death over his wife; nor could he sell her into slavery...\" According to Frier and McGinn, a wife had a socially respected position as \"mater familias\", \"although ... her position was weak in law\". According to Jane F. Gardner, \"over a wife in free marriage ... [\"her husband\"] had no \"potestas\" [power] at all.\" However, according to Mireille Corbier, \"in the framework of free marriage, a practice that became frequent in the late republican period, the wife ... remained in her father's familia.\"\n\nIn Babylon, around the 1700s BC, the law that applied was King Hammurabi's Code. According to Étan Levine, \"Hammurabi law ... permitted a wife to be sold to pay her husband's debts\", although an earlier view (possibly outdated or not agreed with by all scholars) was that the law may have been relatively limited, providing only that the wife sale was limited to the sale of her services, Theophile J. Meek arguing in 1948 that the law should be \"translated somewhat as follows: ... § 117: 'If an obligation came due against a seignior and he accordingly sold (the services of) his wife ... they [\"e.g.\", \"his wife\"] shall work (in) the house of their purchaser or obligee for three years, with their freedom re-established in the fourth year and another view was that the law created an indenture, not a sale, being for a limited duration. Specifically, according to Ernst J. Cohn in 1938, \"if a man contracted a debt and sold his wife, son or daughter or gave them to work it off, 'for three years they work in the house of their buyer or exploiter and in the fourth year he shall restore them to their former condition.\n\nIn Islamic sources, while the term \"wife selling\" referring to someone giving his wife to someone else for money does not appear, \"selling\" word appears in the following sources in different meanings regarding the divorce issue. By the Hanafi school of thought, according to Laleh Bakhtiar (1938–present), a husband may say to his wife, for example, \"I sell you to yourself for so much\", and she may reply, \"I purchase\". According to Howard, as published in 1904, \"under the existing law of Islam the woman has gained a limited right of divorce... may buy her release; and in this case 'a restoration of the marriage bond is impossible. According to Harald Motzki in 2003, of 4 forms of divorce permitted by the Qurʾān, one is divorce by the wife \"bargaining for it\" from her husband. No source found reports that Islam requires that a wife must be sold or that this form of divorce is required. Other forms of divorce exist. No source found reports that the payment in this form of divorce must be spent for any specific post-divorce purpose, such as child support or alimony, or that it need be a property settlement beyond the terms of the agreement.\n\nAs reported by Bakhtiar, comparing 5 branches of Muslim teaching, all 5 branches agree that a wife may pay \"consideration\" or, by 4 of the 5 schools, a third party may pay \"ransom\" to her husband for a divorce, the branches differing under some circumstances, such as on validity if the wife is pregnant. Divorce, according to Bakhtiar, of the form where \"the wife pays her husband the consideration to divorce her\" and when there is \"mutual agreement to this kind of divorce\" is, by 4 of the 5 schools, while \"valid\", \"not recommended\".\n\nAccording to Bakhtiar, a 'divorce for a consideration' is called a \"khul\" (according to Howard, her release\" is \"by the form called \"chol\"\") and, by 4 out of 5 schools of thought, a variety of wordings, both explicit and implicit, may be used to pronounce such a divorce, such as \"al-khul\", the Jafaris also accepting \"al-talaq\", the Hanafi and Shafii schools accepting \"al-bay\", meaning 'to sell', and Hanafis accepting \"al-shira\", meaning 'to purchase'.\n\nBakhtiar says the schools of thought are followed in certain countries and regions:\n\nIn the Christian Church, according to Frederik Pijper in 1909, \"one way [to \"become a slave\"] was by selling oneself because of poverty. It might so happen that a married pair sank into such need that the husband was compelled to sell himself, and did so with his wife's consent. In this way he secured sustenance for himself, and with the purchase-money he was in a position to keep his wife from starving. Sometimes the conditions were reversed, and the wife sold herself with the same intentions and with her husband's consent. In such cases the marriage was usually dissolved; to be sure the Church opposed this, but could not prevent and therefore yielded to it... A synod at Paris early in the seventh century ordained that freemen who had sold ... themselves should if they repaid the money at once be restored to their former status. To demand back a greater sum than what had been paid for them, was not allowed.\"\n\nContrasting women by rank or class and noting which wives were sold and which were not, Pijper wrote of the medieval Church, a \"woman of noble rank who had deserted her husband three times was to be put under penance, and was to be prohibited from marrying again; but if she was a woman from the people she must be sold without hope of regaining her freedom\".\n\nThe parable of the unforgiving servant, attributed to Jesus, according to David Graeber, told of a creditor ordering the sale of a man who is both his debtor and his servant along with the sale of the man's wife, children, and property.\n\nWife selling occurred in Europe in addition to that in Britain:\nIn Kafiristan, which was east of Afghanistan, in the 19th century, a divorce was \"easy\" and was done by the husband selling a wife. If a husband died, when the wife or wives \"revert[ed]\" to the husband's family, surviving brothers either \"sold or retained\" the wives.\n\nIn Malaya, Chinese laborers in the 1880s–1890s, according to Kynoch, \"were said to have been prolific gamblers ... [and] 'many of those who failed to pay off their gambling debts ... either committed suicide or sold their wives and children to pay off their debts'\".\n\nIn Thailand, from the mid-13th century until 1932, according to Darunee Tantiwiramanond and Shashi Pandey, because \"traditional Thai law ... decreed that women were mere chattels of men\" and thus \"women were considered part of a man's assets ... and hence were subjected to male overlordship\", \"a husband or a father could sell his wife or daughter without her consent... The logic of the law, however, did not operate in reverse and did not apply in the case of the wife because she was not a legal entity and had no identity in her own right.\"\n\nIn Northern Asia, according to an 1895 report by Arthur Montefiore, among Samoyads (or \"Samoyedi\") (who are part of the Ural-Altaic Mongoloids), \"[the husband] may commerce with his wife, for marriage is not considered a binding tie. It is not uncommon for a Samoyad to sell his wife to another for the consideration of a few teams of deer, and he sometimes barters her for a lady whose husband may be willing to accept the view that exchange is no robbery.\"\n\nIn the Republic of Vietnam (South Vietnam), Tuân Sắc in 1969 \"argued, are those who sell their wives and children for money, even women who sell their husbands for a little spending money (it's all in the newspapers) and posited that such people are not, or are no longer, Vietnamese.\n\nIn Indonesia, among the Nias, according to E. M. Loeb citing J. B. Neumann from 1886, a husband was allowed to \"pawn ... [his wife] as a pledge for his debts\", but not to sell her \"outright\".\n\nIn ancient Emar, Syria, in the late 14th- to early 12th-centuries B.C.E., in the Late Bronze Age, \"debtors sold their wives\" \"into slavery\". In or near ancient Emar, according to Gary Beckman, a cuneiform tablet documented an instance of a husband selling his wife \"into the service of\" another man, for whom she was to be \"the servant\", \"dead or living\", with a provision that if she be redeemed the redeemer was to provide \"one healthy woman ... in compensation\".\n\nA Christian Biblical Old Testament passage describes an event in Egypt as an instance of wife selling. According to Theodore Y. Blumoff, \"Genesis\" describes \"some pretty deplorable characters who do dreadful things to each other ... [including a] candidate for future sanctification selling his wife—not once but twice—to save his own skin and make a buck\".\n\nIn ancient Rome, in two situations, a \"fictitious\" sale was an actual procedure. In one, to get rid of a \"tutor\" (a person responsible for approving of a female's decisions that might, \"e.g.\", reduce her assets), as a way of getting a replacement \"tutor\", \"the woman [including a wife] undergoes a formal and entirely fictitious 'sale' (\"coemptio\") in which she sells herself to [a] third party, who then remancipates her to another person, who 'manumits' her and thereafter becomes her \"fiduciary guardian\" (\"tutor fiduciarius\"); that is, he replaces her original \"tutor\".\" The procedure was also used for the making of a will when a wife wanted some of her property upon her demise to go not to her birth family but to her husband (and perhaps to her children). \"How frequently women made use of ... [\"this [\"contrived\"] ceremony\"] we have no way of telling, but we often hear of women's wills from [the years of] the late Republic on.\" \"Hadrian (reign: A.D. 117–138) had enacted a decree of the Senate that abolished the need for the 'sale. \"Classical law ... usually treat[ed]... the sale of free persons as void\".\n\nOne of three forms of \"manus\" marriage was \"coemptio\", which, according to Gary Forsythe, seems to have existed in the mid-5th century BC and into the CE 2nd century. According to Gardner and Marcia L. Colish, \"coemptio\" was in essence a fictitious notional sale of the woman to the husband that could occur at any time during their marriage, thus, if after marriage, a fictitious notional sale of the wife to her own husband. According to du Plessis, \"a ceremonial resale of the wife terminated marriage by \"coemptio\" (and probably by \"usus\", too)\", as a reversal of the marriage procedure.\n\nTheophanes claimed that in the 5th century Theodosius II, emperor of the Eastern Roman Empire, may have been managed or tricked into signing unread a contract \"selling\" his wife Aelia Eudocia into slavery or giving her to Pulcheria so Pulcheria could sell his wife; after the signing, Pulcheria \"gave ... [Theodosius] a mighty scolding\" and the sale or gift is not known to have occurred.\n\nIn ancient Rome, according to Gail Hamilton, Cato gave his wife to Hortensius, who married her, after which, when Hortensius was dying, he left all his property to her and, when she was widowed, Cato remarried her; and Caesar Cato ... [for] having sold his wife for Hortensius's gold.\"\n\nRegarding a married man's consortium with a slave who may have thereby borne sons, Pijper wrote of medieval Christians, \"according to Vinniaus the married freeman who had consorted with a slave should be compelled to sell the woman; [but] if he had one or several sons by her he must set her free, and was not allowed to sell her.\" Women consorting with churchmen were to be sold by bishops; Pijper reported, \"some churchmen, not living in honorable wedlock, consorted with strange women or their own slaves. Bishops were instructed to secure such women and sell them. This hard law was promulgated in Spain, at the beginning of the seventh century.\" A subdeacon's wife was to be enslaved by a prince, according to Pijper; \"if a subdeacon refused to give up his wife, he was to be removed from his ecclesiastical office and benefice. If, however, after being warned by his bishop, he still failed to yield, his wife was to be made a slave by the prince.\"\n\nThe buying the freedom of a slave being from another party's perspective the selling the slave into freedom, the medieval Christian Church permitted the selling into freedom of a slave who was a spouse; according to Pijper, \"if ... two slaves were joined in wedlock by their common master, and one of them was thereafter freed, that one was permitted to marry again, if the freedom of the other could not be bought.\"\n\nIn Asia Minor, administered by Turks, among the Yourouks, as reported in 1891 by Theodore Bent, \"on marriage the husband generally pays something to the father, and this has given rise to the idea that the nomads [\"Yourouks\"] are in the habit of selling their wives for the harems of Constantinople, whereas they are only carrying out their legitimate idea of the marriage contract.\" On the other hand, wives are often slaves; according to Bent, \"poor though he is, a man will often have seven wives, or more properly speaking, seven slaves.\"\n\nIn Palestine of the 1st century, according to Graeber, it was not \"normal\" \"for a man ... to be able to sell his wife\".\n\nOn an Abyssinian couple met in northeast Africa, in 1899–1900, according to James J. Harrison, \"we [the first white men ever seen in the country] ... encountered an Abyssinian gentleman, who, having nothing else to sell us, tried to sell his wife. After repeated attempts, he and the good lady, looking crestfallen at not even raising a bid, proceeded on their journey.\"\n\nIn Australia, in 1880–1884, among aborigines in Queensland, according to Carl Lumholtz, \"at Herbert River the blacks did not know, before the arrival of the whites, of any stimulants at all. The tobacco served me instead of money, and for it they would do anything, even to selling their wives.\"\n\nIn Szabolcs, in the 11th century, a substitute for a wife could be sold, with the gain going to religious leadership. According to Pijper in 1909, writing of the Christian Church, \"according to the synod of Szabolcs (1092), if a priest instead of taking a wife had chosen a servant or a slave as a companion, she was to be sold and the proceeds were to be given to the bishop.\"\n\nThese are claims by enemies in war (including civil war) and which may not have been true even to a small degree, but which were widely made.\n\nIn Rwanda, up to 1994, according to Erin K Baines, Hutus accused Tutsis, identified as enemies, by saying, \"Tutsi sold their wives ... to the Hutu authorities. Tutsis tried to marry their wives to Hutu elite in order to have spies in the inner circle.\"\n\nMost bans are implied in bans against sales of human beings that by definition include sales of wives, and such more general bans are too numerous to list here. Some bans, however, are explicitly against wife sale.\n\nIn Thailand, \"only in 1935, under pressure from the West, were ... men forbidden from selling their wives into prostitution\".\n\nIn Indonesia, among the Nias, according to Loeb citing Neumann from 1886, \"the only restriction which the husband had to observe is that he was not allowed to sell his wife outright\", but was allowed to \"pawn her as a pledge for his debts\".\n\nAmong the Kaffirs, as studied in the Cape Colony by the South African government in 1883, \"the husband cannot sell his wife nor ill-treat her\"; divorce exists but is rare.\n\nIn ancient Rome, according to Jörg Rüpke, \"a husband selling his wife\" was a \"crime ... that [would have] fundamental social relationships,\" in which the wife as \"the harmed one is in an inferior position\". Thus, according to Rüpke, \"by the \"sacer-esto\"-formula, a curse declaring someone outlawed[,]... the delinquent\" may be killed by anyone. Specifically, according to Rüpke, \"if somebody has sold his wife, he shall be sacrificed to the lower gods\". The enactment of \"the law that whoever sold his wife should be given over to the infernal gods\" was, according to John Andrew Couch in 1894, credited to Romulus. According to Alan Watson in 1972, \"anyone who sold his wife was to be dedicated [apparently 'sacrificed'] to the gods of the underworld.\" \"The husband who sold his wife was to be sacrificed (if we may so translate Plutarch ...) to the infernal deities\", according to Fowler in 1911. According to Rüpke, this judgment and punishment reflected and was legitimized by religion. However, after a while, the offense was no longer punished; according to Mary Emily Case, \"this very primitive kind of justice [in which \"one who violated these rules [\"of the \"fas\",—that is, of religious duty\"] was pronounced accursed, and might be killed by any who met him\"] soon fell into disuse, and offences which were merely \"nefas\"—such, for example, as selling a wife—ceased to be punished. Thus, \"fas\" early lost the force of law.\"\n\nIn ancient Israel, according to Levine, a man \"could never sell a wife, even if she had originally been a war captive\"; at least he could not sell her to an \"outsider\", although redemption was possible.\n\nHowever, ambivalently, N. P. Lemche argued that \"either there are no rules for a Hebrew's selling his wife ..., or ... [this category is] incorporated in the law ... in the way that it was considered impossible that a man should be able to sell his wife and remain free himself\".\n\nBans, whether against wife sales specifically or against all sales of human beings, that were only in effect part of the time or that were substantially violated and unenforced are too numerous to list. Examples include bans in England, often violated and generally unenforced for a time, and Japan, by law having no ban for a time.\n\nAn undated doggerel from Western Pennsylvania was reported by H. Carrington Bolton as \"Pontius Pilate, King of the Jews\",/\"Sold his wife for a pair of shoes.\"/\"When the shoes began to wear\"/\"Pontius Pilate began to swear.\" Bolton received it after publishing other rhymes used by children for \"counting-out\". Variants on the rhyme have also been reported, including from Salt Lake City \"c.\" 1920 and Los Angeles \"c.\" 1935, the variants naming \"Holy Moses\" instead of \"Pontius Pilate\", and some women reported their use \"as rope-skipping and ball-bouncing rhymes\".\n\nIn the U.S., a folktale titled \"The Man Who Sold His Wife For Beef\", narrated by two informants, and that possibly was true although \" to be only a folktale, was told in 1952 by Mrs. Mary Richardson, living in Calvin Township, southwestern Michigan, which town was a destination for slaves travelling through the Underground Railroad and in which town most residents and local government officials were Black. As told to Richard M. Dorson, in Clarksdale, Cohoma County, northern Mississippi, \"c.\" 1890 or \"c.\" 1897–1898, a husband killed his wife and sold some parts to people to eat as beef, and the husband was caught and executed.\n\nThe plot of the 1969 western-musical film \"Paint Your Wagon\" treats the subject satirically.\n\nIn 1933, Sane Guruji (born as Pandurang Sadashiv Sane), of Maharashtra, India, authored \"Shyamchi Ai\", a collection of \"stories\", which, according to Guruji, were \"true ... [but with] ... a possibility of a character, an incident or a remark being fictitious.\" One of the stories was \"Karja Mhanje Jiwantapanicha Narak\" (\"Indebtedness is Hell on Earth\"), in which, according to Shanta Gokhale, a man borrowed money from a moneylender, had not paid principal or interest, and was visited by the moneylender's representative who demanded full payment and \"shamelessly suggested\", \"if you sold wife's bangles to build a house, you can sell your wife now to repay your debts\", his wife, hearing this, came to where her husband and the moneylender's representative were talking and said, \"aren't you ashamed to talk about selling wives? Have you no control over your tongue?\", no wife sale occurred, and a partial monetary payment was made to the moneylender's representative. According to Gokhale, in 1935–1985 (\"55 years\") (), \"every middle-class home in Maharashtra is said to have possessed a copy of \"Shyamti Ai\" and every member of every such household may be assumed to have read it... [and it] was also made into a film which instantly received the same kind of adoring viewership.\" According to Sudha Varde or Sadanand Varde, Guruji was one of \"only two men [\"even in the Seva Dal\"] who could be called feminists in the real sense\", because \"Guruji ... respected women in every way ... [and] had a real awareness of the lives, of women and the hardships they had to bear\"; these statements were, according to Gokhale, published as part of \"some indication of the widespread influence \"Shyamchi Ai\" has had in Maharashtra.\"\n\nIn southeastern India, in the Tanjavur region, often described as the main part of Tamil society, according to Sanjay Subrahmanyam, Shahaji Bhonsle, who ruled Tanjavur 1684–1712, in the early 18th century wrote \"Satidânashûramu\" ('The Gifting of the Virtuous Wife'), a play in the Telugu language, for an annual festival at a temple. Subrahmanyam says that, in the play, a member of the Untouchable (Dalit) caste offers to \"donate\" his wife to a Brahmin and asks whether Harishchandra \"didn't ... sell his wife for truth\", although the Brahmin announces that he must refuse the gift and ultimately the wife's \"virtue remains unsullied\".\n\nIn Indian literature, \"Mahabharata\", a story of Gandhari, according to Jayanti Alam, includes the \" (or censuring) of \"Yudhishtira ... for 'selling' his wife in the gamble\". According to Alam, \"Rabindranath's Gandhari is ... a feminist\" and \"Gandhari's feminism reaches its sublime height and she emerges the apostle of justice\".\n\nAccording to Jonathan Parry in 1980, \"in the famous legend of Raja Harish Chandra, it was in order to provide a \"dakshina\" that, having been tricked into giving away all his material possessions in a dream, the righteous king was forced to sell his wife and son into slavery and himself become the servant of the cremation \"ghat\" Dom in Benares.\"\n\nIn China, according to Smith, a \"possibly well-known tale\" about the Song dynastic era (A.D. 960–1279) told of a wife invited to a prefect's party for wives of subordinate officials, from which she \"was kidnapped by a brothel-master\", who later \"sold her ... [to] her husband's new employer ... who  ... the couple\".\n\nIn 1990, in Central Nepal, mainly in rural areas, one song, a \"dukha\", which is a \"suffering/hardship\" song that \"provide[s] ... an interpretation of women's hardships\", \"underscore[d] ... the limited resources and rights of a wife caught in a bad marriage\". Sung from a daughter's perspective, the song in part said, \"[The wife says] You don't need to return home after drinking there in the evening.\"/\"In Pokhara bazaar, [there is] an electricity line,\"/\"The household property is not mine.\"/\"The housewife is an outsider,\"/\"All the household property is needed [for raksi].\"/\"If this wife is not enough, you can get another,\"/\"The head of the cock will be caught [i.e., with two wives he'll have problems].\"/\"Why do you hold your head [looking worried]? Go sell the buffalo and pigs.\"/\"If you don't have enough money [for raksi], you will even sell your wife.\"/\"After selling his wife, he'll become a \"jogT\" [here: a beggar without a wife].\" A \"woman ... became visibly agitated while listening to [this song]\". This was part of a genre sung at the annual Tij Festival, by Hindu women in the mid to late 20th century, but mostly not between the festivals. According to Debra Skinner and co-authors, \"this genre ... has been recognized by urban-based political and feminist groups as a promising medium for demanding equal rights for women and the poor.\"\n\nIn Guatemala, according to Robert G. Mead, Jr., a \"legend [that is] popular ... [is] the story of the poor man who becomes rich by selling his wife to the Devil.\" This legend, according to Mead, is also one basis of the 1963 novel \"Mulata de tal\", by Miguel Angel Asturias, a winner in 1967 of the Nobel Prize in Literature.\n\nIn the Dutch Indies, fiction by Tirto Adhi Soerjo, who was Javanese and writing in a language that \"was a form of resistance to Dutch\", according to Laurie J. Sears, included in 1909 \"Membeli Bini Orang: Sebuah Cerita Yang Sungguh Sudah Terjadi Di Periangan\" (\"Buying Another Man's Wife: A Story that Really Happened in the Priangan\"), in which \"a religious Muslim ... tries to get rid of his wife, whom a \"dukun\" said was not good for him ... [noting that since his marriage after his prior widowhood] all his business efforts have turned into failures ... [and] he agrees to give or sell his wife to a greedy Eurasian (=Indo) moneylender who has fallen in love with her... [She, as the first man's wife,] is a very promiscuous woman, easily impressed with money and fashionable clothing, and the Eurasian ends up feeling more than punished for his pursuit and purchase of another man's wife.\"\n\nIn Scandinavia, in \"c.\" 1850s–1870s, where there were many critics of the Mormon religion, \"ballad mongers hawked 'the latest new verse about the Copenhagen apprentice masons' who sold their wives to the Mormons for two thousand kroner and riotously drowned their sorrows in the taverns\".\n\nA wife being subject to sale was a consequence of her being a man's property, according to sociologist Alvin John Schmidt. The religious Commandment against coveting one's neighbor's wife has as part of its basis that \"the wife is definitely seen as property\", wrote Schmidt. Christians and earlier Hebrews were, according to Schmidt, influenced by the belief that \"woman [was] ... unequal to man\", producing \"sexist theology\". Schmidt argued that teachers of Judeo-Christian tradition who teach on this Commandment \"without drawing attention to the property concept of woman\" \"might [be] ... unknowingly contributing to sexual inequality\". Inequality and inferiority are, according to Schmidt, \"negative\".\n\nWife selling was criticized by the Roman Catholic Pope Gregory VII in the 11th century, and the Catholic church over time objected to it, apparently because it objected to divorce, while the non-Catholic Christian church sometimes did not oppose it.\n\nAccording to Robert G. Ingersoll, writing in 1881, \"to sell wives ... is slavery. This is what Jehovah 'authorized in Judea.\n\nKarl Marx argued that machinery adds so many women and children to the workforce that men are displaced and thus, according to Michael Burawoy, \"all that the father can do is sell his wife and children.\" Then, according to Marx, \"he has become a slave dealer.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24509956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24509956", "title": "Wine and Spirits Fair Dealing Act", "text": "Wine and Spirits Fair Dealing Act\n\nThe Wine and Spirits Fair Dealing Act, also known as the Wirtz Law was an infamous Illinois state law passed in 1999 that prevented distillers and wineries from changing distributors without \"just cause\". Distributors stated that the law was required to prevent producers from severing ties with Illinois distributors and \"outsourcing\" their deals, ostensibly resulting in thousands of job losses throughout the state. After the law was passed, all Illinois distributors raised their prices. The Federal Trade Commission actively lobbied against the law, to no avail.\n\nThe unofficial \"Wirtz Law\" name comes from the fact that the law was passed after Wirtz Corporation owner Bill Wirtz and other distributors had contributed over $700,000 to Illinois state legislators; editorials at the time decried the law as a \"corrupt document\".\n\nUltimately the unpopular Wirtz Law only remained on the books for three years before it was struck down by a U.S. District Court judge who said that it violated the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution. The law and its history went on to become a case study for campaign finance reform.\n\nAn earlier, similar law, the Beer Industry Fair Dealing Act (which dated to 1982), resulted in a popular Michigan microbrewer, Bell's Brewery, getting into a dispute with their distributor and pulling their products from the Illinois market entirely in protest in 2006. Bell's re-entered the Chicago market in 2007 via two new distributors by creating two new beer brands, Kalamazoo Royal Amber Ale and Kalamazoo Hopsoulution. Since each beer avoided the use of the \"Bell's\" name and logo, and used a different recipe from previous Bell's brands, Larry Bell contended that these are not the same beers that were assigned to his former distributor. Nevertheless, Bell stated at the time that he expected \"to be sued by his former distributor, National Wine & Spirits.\" Initially, only the Royal Amber Ale was made available, in draft only, at about a dozen Chicago-area locations. In August 2008, Bell's returned its primary brands to the Chicago area after National Wine & Spirits' exit from Illinois, after upon sales of their Illinois distributorship to Wirtz Corp.\n"}
{"id": "23946180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23946180", "title": "Zhivkov Constitution", "text": "Zhivkov Constitution\n\nThe Zhivkov Constitution was the third Constitution of Bulgaria, and the second of the Communist era. It was in effect from May 18, 1971 to July 12, 1991.\n\nThe Bulgarian Communist Party, under the leadership of general secretary Todor Zhivkov, used the outbreak of the Prague Spring as a pretext to tighten control over all social organizations and heavily re-emphasize \"democratic centralism\" within the party. Zhivkov and his colleagues were determined to reassure the Soviets that there would not be a Bulgarian version of the Prague Spring. A major result of the events of 1968 was the decision to replace the Dimitrov Constitution of 1947. \n\nThe proposed changes were discussed and approved by a commission chaired by Zhivkov. After receiving the assent of the Tenth Party Congress, it was approved via a national referendum held in May 1971. The document detailed for the first time the structure of the BCP (highly centralized, in keeping with policy after 1968) and its role in leading both society and state. The Bulgarian Agrarian National Union (BANU) was specified as the partner of the BCP in the cooperative governing of the country. \n\nA new State Council was created to oversee the Council of Ministers and exercise supreme executive authority. In 1971, Zhivkov, prime minister since 1962, resigned to become chairman of the State Council. \n\nThe 1971 constitution defined Bulgaria as a socialist state with membership in the international socialist community. Like its predecessor, it granted broad citizens' rights, but these rights were limited by the requirement that they be exercised only in the interest of the state. Citizens' obligations included working according to one's ability to build the foundation of the socialist state and defend the state, compulsory military service, and paying taxes. The new constitution also defined four forms of property: state, cooperative, public organization, and private. Private property was limited to that needed for individual and family upkeep.\n\nMost of the governmental structure specified in the Dimitrov Constitution remained, but the State Council replaced the Presidium as the supreme organ of state power. This council consisted of a chairman--a post equivalent to that of president--and 22 members. The State Council was more powerful than the Presidium because it could initiate as well as approve legislation, and because it exercised some of the non-governmental supervision normally delegated to ruling parties in East European communist states of that period. Council members, nominally elected by the National Assembly, were members of the BCP or other mass organizations.\n\nThe National Assembly, traditional center of political power in Bulgaria until the 1947 constitution stripped it of power, was defined as the highest organ of state power, with the State Council officially defined as an executive committee of the Assembly. It nominally received greater responsibilities than it had possessed in the 1947 document. Permanent commissions were to supervise the work of ministries, and legislation could now be submitted by labor and youth groups (all of which were party-controlled). In practice, the National Assembly only met for three brief sessions per year, during which it merely rubber-stamped legislation and BCP nominations for the State Council, Supreme Court, and Council of Ministers. When the National Assembly was not in session, the State Council had the power to issue decrees, and was not even nominally required to submit them to the National Assembly for approval at its next session. In most other Communist regimes, the legislature at least theoretically had the power of veto in such circumstances, though it was almost never exercised in practice.\n\nZhivkov was forced to resign on November 10, 1989. A month later, his successor, Petar Mladenov, called for the BCP to give up its monopoly of power. This was formally done on January 15, 1990; when the National Assembly struck out Article 1, which enshrined the BCP's monopoly of power. In April, the State Council was abolished and replaced by the post of president of the republic. \n\nParticipants in national round table discussions eventually agreed on the need for a completely new constitution, which took effect on July 12, 1991.\n\n"}
