{"id": "59707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59707", "title": "1930 FIFA World Cup", "text": "1930 FIFA World Cup\n\nThe 1930 FIFA World Cup was the inaugural FIFA World Cup, the world championship for men's national association football teams. It took place in Uruguay from 13 to 30 July 1930. FIFA, football's international governing body, selected Uruguay as host nation, as the country would be celebrating the centenary of its first constitution, and the Uruguay national football team had successfully retained their football title at the 1928 Summer Olympics. All matches were played in the Uruguayan capital, Montevideo, the majority at the Estadio Centenario, which was built for the tournament.\n\nThirteen teams (seven from South America, four from Europe and two from North America) entered the tournament. Only a few European teams chose to participate because of the difficulty of travelling to South America. The teams were divided into four groups, with the winner of each group progressing to the semi-finals. The first two World Cup matches took place simultaneously, and were won by France and the United States, who defeated Mexico 4–1 and Belgium 3–0, respectively. Lucien Laurent of France scored the first goal in World Cup history, while US goalkeeper Jimmy Douglas posted the first official \"clean sheet\" in the tournament.\n\nArgentina, Uruguay, the United States and Yugoslavia each won their respective groups to qualify for the semi-finals. In the final, hosts and pre-tournament favourites Uruguay defeated Argentina 4–2 in front of a crowd of 68,346 people, and became the first nation to win the World Cup.\n\nThe first World Cup was the only one without qualification. Every country affiliated with FIFA was invited to compete, and given a deadline of 28 February 1930 to accept. Plenty of interest was shown by nations in the Americas; Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru and the United States all entered. A total of seven South American teams participated, more than in any subsequent World Cup Finals. However, because of the long and costly trip by ship across the Atlantic Ocean, and the length of absence required for players, very few European teams were inclined to take part. Some refused to countenance travel to South America in any circumstances, and no European entries were received before the February deadline. In an attempt to gain some European participation, the Uruguayan Football Association sent a letter of invitation to The Football Association, even though the British Home Nations (England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales) had resigned from FIFA at the time. This was rejected by the FA Committee on 18 November 1929. Two months before the start of the tournament, no team from Europe had officially entered.\nFIFA president Jules Rimet intervened, and eventually four European teams made the trip by sea: Belgium, France, Romania, and Yugoslavia. The Romanians, managed by Constantin Rădulescu and coached by their captain Rudolf Wetzer and Octav Luchide, entered the competition following the intervention of newly crowned King Carol II. He selected the squad personally, and negotiated with employers to ensure that the players would still have jobs upon their return. The French entered at the personal intervention of Rimet, but neither France's star defender Manuel Anatol nor the team's regular coach Gaston Barreau could be persuaded to make the trip. The Belgians participated at the instigation of German-Belgian FIFA vice-president Rodolphe Seeldrayers.\n\nThe Romanians boarded the SS \"Conte Verde\" at Genoa, the French were picked up at Villefranche-sur-Mer on 21 June 1930; and the Belgians embarked at Barcelona. The \"Conte Verde\" carried Rimet, the trophy and the three designated European referees: the Belgians Jean Langenus and Henri Christophe, along with Thomas Balway, a Parisian who may have been English. The Brazilian team were picked up when the boat docked in Rio de Janeiro on 29 June before arriving in Uruguay on 4 July. Yugoslavia travelled via the mail steamship \"Florida\" from Marseille.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Yugoslavia there were doubts about their participation at first. Since the Croatians decided to boycott the national team, King Alexander I did not want to finance the whole idea, but in the end they found a solution. Belgrade football association officials decided to round up only domestic (Serbian) star players, mainly from two rival Belgrade clubs, BSK and SK Jugoslavija, with an additional three Serbs who played for French clubs (Ivan Bek among them). \nTherefore, the Yugoslavia team was exclusively made up of Serbian players; and with the two biggest stars of the team, Blagoje Marjanović (\"Moša\") and Aleksandar Tirnanić (\"Tirke\"), both from BSK, they were ready for a trip to South America to represent Yugoslavia in the World Cup. The Yugoslavians were the youngest team in the World Cup; with an average age of 21 years and 258 days. After their first match, against Brazil, they received a new nickname \"The Ich-es\" or \"Ichachos\" (in Spanish) by the Uruguayan press; referring to most of the player's surnames that ended up with the \"-ić\" or \"-vić\" suffix, which is quite common for Serbian last names. They achieved the joint–biggest success in both Yugoslav and Serbian subsequent World Cup footballing history, by earning fourth place, a result that would be repeated in 1962.\n\nItaly, Sweden, the Netherlands, Spain, Hungary and Uruguay all lodged applications to host the event. Uruguay's bid became the clear selection after all the other countries withdrew their bids.\n\nAll matches took place in Montevideo. Three stadiums were used: Estadio Centenario, Estadio Pocitos, and Estadio Parque Central. The Estadio Centenario was built both for the tournament and as a celebration of the centenary of Uruguayan independence. Designed by Juan Scasso, it was the primary stadium for the tournament, referred to by Rimet as a \"temple of football\". With a capacity of 90,000, it was the largest football stadium outside the British Isles. The stadium hosted 10 of the 18 matches, including both semi-finals and the final. However, a rushed construction schedule and delays caused by the rainy season meant the Centenario was not ready for use until five days into the tournament. Early matches were played at smaller stadiums usually used by Montevideo football clubs Nacional and Peñarol, the 20,000 capacity Parque Central and the Pocitos.\n\nFifteen referees participated in the tournament: four Europeans – two Belgians (Henri Christophe and John Langenus), a Frenchman, and a Romanian (Constantin Rădulescu, also the Romanian team coach), and eleven from the Americas – among them six Uruguayans. In order to eliminate differences in the application of the Laws of the Game, the referees were invited to one short meeting to iron out the most conflicting issues arising from the game.\n\nOf all the refereeing appointments, the two that attracted most attention were that of Gilberto de Almeida Rêgo in the match between Argentina and France, in which the Brazilian referee blew for full-time six minutes early, and that of the Bolivian Ulises Saucedo's in the Argentina and Mexico encounter, which Argentina won 6–3. During the game Saucedo, who was also the coach of Bolivia, awarded three penalties.\n\nThe following is the list of officials to serve as referees and linesmen. Officials in italics were only employed as linesmen during the tournament.\n\n\nThe 13 teams were drawn into four groups, with Group 1 containing four teams, and the others containing three. Each group played a round-robin format, with the four group winners progressing to the knockout semi-final stage.\n\nUruguay, Argentina, Brazil, and the United States were seeded, and were kept apart in the draw, which took place in Montevideo once all the teams arrived.\n\nSince there were no qualifying games, the opening two matches of the tournament were the first World Cup games ever played, taking place simultaneously on 13 July 1930; France beat Mexico 4–1 at the Estadio Pocitos, while the United States defeated Belgium 3–0 at the same time at the Estadio Gran Parque Central. France's Lucien Laurent was the scorer of the first World Cup goal.\n\nThe first group was the only one to contain four teams: Argentina, Chile, France and Mexico. Two days after France's victory over Mexico, they faced group favourites Argentina. Injuries hindered France; goalkeeper Alex Thépot had to leave the field after 20 minutes, and Laurent, after a fierce tackle by Luis Monti, spent most of the match limping. However, they held out for most of the match, only succumbing to an 81st-minute goal scored from a Monti free kick. The game featured an officiating controversy when referee Almeida Rêgo erroneously blew the final whistle six minutes early, with Frenchman Marcel Langiller clear on goal; play only resumed after protests from the French players. Although France had played twice in 48 hours, Chile had yet to play their first match. They faced Mexico the following day, gaining a comfortable 3–0 win.\n\nFrance's final match, against Chile, featured the first penalty kick of the World Cup . The first goalkeeper to save a penalty was Alex Thépot of France on 19 July 1930, saving from Chile's Carlos Vidal in the 30th minute of the match. In Argentina's second match, against Mexico, three penalty kicks were awarded. During the same match on 19 July 1930 Mexico's Oscar Bonfiglio Martínez saved another penalty at the 23rd minute of the match against Argentina's Fernando Paternoster. Guillermo Stábile scored a hat-trick in his international debut as Argentina won 6–3, despite the absence of their captain Manuel Ferreira, who had returned to Buenos Aires to take a law exam. Qualification was decided by the group's final match, contested by Argentina and Chile, who had beaten France and Mexico, respectively. The game was marred by a brawl sparked by a foul on Arturo Torres by Monti. Argentina won 3–1 against their neighbours and advanced to the semi-finals.\n\nThe second group contained Brazil, Bolivia and Yugoslavia. Brazil, the group seeds, were expected to progress, but in the group's opening match, unexpectedly lost 2–1 to Yugoslavia. Going into the tournament Bolivia had never previously won an international match. For their opener they paid tribute to the hosts by wearing shirts each emblazoned with a single letter, spelling \"Viva Uruguay\" as the team lined up. Both of Bolivia's matches followed a similar pattern, a promising start gradually transforming into heavy defeat. Against Yugoslavia, they held out for an hour before conceding, but were four goals down by the final whistle. Misfortune played its part; several Bolivian goals were disallowed. Against Brazil, when both teams had only pride to play for, the score was 1–0 to Brazil at half-time. Brazil added three more in the second half, two of them scored by the multi-sportsman Preguinho. Yugoslavia qualified for the semi-finals.\n\nHosts Uruguay were in a group with Peru and Romania. The opening match in this group saw the first player expulsion in the competition, when Plácido Galindo of Peru was dismissed against Romania. The Romanians made their man advantage pay; their 3–1 win included two late goals. This match had the smallest crowd of any in World Cup history. The official attendance was 2,459, but the actual figure is generally accepted to be around 300.\n\nBecause of construction delays at Estadio Centenario, Uruguay's first match was not played until five days into the tournament. The first to be held at the Centenario, it was preceded by a ceremony in honour of the Uruguayan centenary celebrations. The Uruguayan team spent the four weeks preceding the match in a training camp, at which strict discipline was exercised. Goalkeeper Andrés Mazali was dropped from the squad for breaking a curfew to visit his wife. One hundred years to the day of the creation of Uruguay's first constitution, the hosts won a tight match against Peru 1–0. Spectators praised Peru's defense, and this turned out to be the only tournament match in which Uruguay scored only one goal. The result was viewed as a poor performance by the Uruguayan press, but lauded in Peru. Uruguay subsequently defeated Romania with ease, scoring four first half goals to win 4–0.\n\nThe fourth group contained Belgium, Paraguay and The United States. The American team, which contained a significant number of new caps, were reputedly nicknamed \"the shot-putters\" by an unnamed source in the French contingent. They beat their first opponents, Belgium, 3–0. The ease of the victory was unexpected; Uruguayan newspaper \"Imparcial\" wrote that \"the large score of the American victory has really surprised the experts\". Belgian reports bemoaned the state of the pitch and refereeing decisions, claiming that the second goal was offside. The group's second match, played in windy conditions, witnessed the first tournament hat-trick, scored by Bert Patenaude of the United States against Paraguay. Until 10 November 2006, the first hat-trick that FIFA acknowledged had been scored by Guillermo Stábile of Argentina, two days after Patenaude; however, in 2006 FIFA announced that Patenaude's claim to being the first hat-trick scorer was valid, as a goal previously assigned to teammate Tom Florie was reattributed to Patenaude. With the United States having secured qualification, the final match in the group was a dead rubber. Paraguay beat Belgium by a 1–0 margin.\n\nThe four group winners, Argentina, Yugoslavia, Uruguay and the United States, moved to the semi-finals. The two semi-final matches saw identical scores. The first semi-final was played between the US and Argentina on a rain-drenched pitch. The United States team, which featured six British-born players, lost midfielder Raphael Tracy after ten minutes to a broken leg as the match became violent. A Monti goal halfway through the first half gave Argentina a 1–0 half-time lead. In the second half, the strength of the United States team was overwhelmed by the pace of the Argentinian attacks, the match finishing 6–1 to Argentina.\n\nIn the second semi-final there were shades of the 1924 Summer Olympics match between Yugoslavia and Uruguay. Here, though, Yugoslavia took a surprise lead through Vujadinović. Uruguay then took a 2–1 lead. Then shortly before half-time Yugoslavia had a goal disallowed by a controversial offside decision. The hosts scored three more in the second half to win 6–1, Pedro Cea completing a hat-trick.\n\nThe now-traditional third place play-off was not established until 1934, so the format of the 1930 World Cup is unique in not distinguishing between the third and fourth placed teams. Occasional sources, notably a FIFA Bulletin from 1984, incorrectly imply that a third-place match occurred and was won 3–1 by Yugoslavia. Accounts differ as to whether a third-place match was originally scheduled. According to a 2009 book by Hyder Jawad, Yugoslavia refused to play a third-place match because they were upset with the refereeing in their semi-final against Uruguay.\n\nAt the end of the championship, the captains of the United States team (Tom Florie) and Yugoslavia (Milutin Ivković) both received bronze medals. Yet a FIFA technical committee report on the 1986 World Cup included full retrospective rankings of all teams at all previous World Cup finals; this report ranked the United States third and Yugoslavia fourth, due to a better goal difference on otherwise identical records, a practice since continued by FIFA. In 2010, the son of Kosta Hadži, the chief of Yugoslav delegation at the 1930 World Cup and the vice-president of the Football Association of Yugoslavia at the time, claimed that Yugoslavia, as a team, has been awarded one bronze medal, which has been kept by Hadži himself and his family for the following 80 years. According to this source, Yugoslavia was placed third because of the semi-finals loss to the eventual champions, Uruguay.\n\nThe resounding wins for Uruguay and Argentina in the semi-finals meant the final was a repeat of the matchup in the 1928 Olympic final, which Uruguay had won 2–1 after a replay.\n\nThe final was played at the Estadio Centenario on 30 July. Feelings ran high around the La Plata Basin as the Argentine supporters crossed the river with the war cry \"Victoria o muerte\" (\"victory or death\"), dispelling any uncertainty as to whether the tournament had captured the imagination of the public. The ten boats earmarked to carry Argentine fans from Buenos Aires to Montevideo proved inadequate, and any number of assorted craft attempted the crossing. An estimated 10–15,000 Argentinians made the trip, but the port at Montevideo was so overwhelmed that many did not even make landfall before kick-off, let alone reach the stadium. At the stadium, supporters were searched for weapons. The gates were opened at eight o'clock, six hours before kick-off, and at noon the ground was full, the official attendance 93,000. A disagreement overshadowed the build-up to the match as the teams failed to agree on who should provide the match ball, forcing FIFA to intervene and decree that the Argentine team would provide the ball for the first half and the Uruguayans would provide their own for the second. Uruguay made one change from their semi-final line-up. Castro replaced Anselmo, who missed out due to illness. Monti played for Argentina despite receiving death threats on the eve of the match. The referee was Belgian John Langenus, who only agreed to officiate a few hours before the game, having sought assurances for his safety. One of his requests was for a boat to be ready at the harbour within one hour of the final whistle, in case he needed to make a quick escape.\n\nThe hosts scored the opening goal through Pablo Dorado, a low shot from a position on the right. Argentina, displaying superior passing ability, responded strongly. Within eight minutes they were back on level terms; Carlos Peucelle received a Ferreira through-ball, beat his marker and equalised. Shortly before half-time leading tournament goalscorer Guillermo Stábile gave Argentina a 2–1 lead. Uruguay captain Nasazzi protested, maintaining that Stábile was offside, but to no avail. In the second half Uruguay gradually became ascendant. Shortly after Monti missed a chance to make the score 3–1, Uruguay attacked in numbers, and Pedro Cea scored an equaliser. Ten minutes later a goal by Santos Iriarte gave Uruguay the lead, and just before full-time Castro made it 4–2 to seal the win. Langenus ended the match a minute later, and Uruguay thus added the title World Cup winners to their mantle of Olympic champions. Jules Rimet presented the World Cup Trophy, which was later named for him, to the head of the Uruguayan Football Association, Raúl Jude. The following day was declared a national holiday in Uruguay; in the Argentinian capital, Buenos Aires, a mob threw stones at the Uruguayan consulate. Francisco Varallo (who played as a forward for Argentina) was the last player of the final to die, on 30 August 2010.\n\nFrance, Yugoslavia and the United States all played friendlies in South America following the competition. Brazil played France on 1 August, Yugoslavia on 10 August and the United States on 17 August, while Argentina hosted Yugoslavia on 3 August.\n\nUruguay's aggregate goal difference of +12 over four games, at an average of +3 per match, remains the highest average goal difference per match of any World Cup champion, and the second highest of any World Cup Finals participant, after Hungary in 1954.\n\nWith eight goals, Guillermo Stábile was the top scorer in the tournament. In total, 70 goals were scored by 36 players, with only one of them credited as an own goal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1986, FIFA published a report that ranked all teams in each World Cup up to and including 1986, based on progress in the competition, overall results and quality of the opposition. The rankings for the 1930 tournament were as follows:\n\nThe last surviving player from Uruguay's World Cup-winning side was Ernesto Mascheroni, who died on 3 July 1984 at the age of 76. He was outlived by reserve defender Emilio Recoba who died on 12 September 1992 (aged 87), but did not play any matches in the tournament. However, many other players who participated in the tournament were still alive by this stage and the last surviving player from the tournament was Argentina's Francisco Varallo, who died on 30 August 2010 at the age of 100 – eighty years after the tournament. Lucien Laurent, the scorer of the first ever World Cup Goal was the last surviving Member of the France Squad and was invited in 1998 Final seeing France lifting its first ever World Cup win also as the only France member. He died in 2005 at the age of 97.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3732495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3732495", "title": "1973 All-Africa Games", "text": "1973 All-Africa Games\n\nThe 2nd All-Africa Games – Lagos 1973 were played from January 7, 1973, to January 18, 1973, in Lagos, Nigeria.\n\nAfter the success of the first African Games, the organizing bodies awarded the second games to Bamako, Mali to be held in 1969. A military coup disrupted the plans and the organizers moved the games to Lagos, Nigeria to be held in 1971. The games were postponed once again and finally opened in January 1973. A torch was lit in Brazzaville a week before the games and transported to Lagos as a symbol of the continuity of the games.\n\nSecurity again was very tight at the games. This time in response to the massacre of Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympic Games just four short months before.\n\nSports heroes from around the world including Abebe Bikila, Pelé, Muhammad Ali, and Jesse Owens were invited to attend the opening ceremonies.\n\nBen Jipcho, Kenya's 3000 meter silver medalist at the Munich Olympics, tied the world record in the steeplechase with a run of 8:20.8. Tanzania's newcomer Filbert Bayi stunned the veteran favorite Kip Keino in the 1500 meters in 3:37.18.\n\nAfrican nations continued to put pressure on South Africa which was not invited to participate due to their apartheid policies. Rhodesia was also not invited.\n\nAt the closing ceremonies the torch was passed to Algiers, Algeria to begin preparations for the IIIrd All-Africa Games in 1978.\n\nOnly one athlete defended his title from the 1965 Games, namely Malian discus thrower Namakoro Niaré. Three athletes, one male and two female, won more than one event:\n\n\nSeveral women's events was added. These were 200 metres, 400 metres, 800 metres, 1500 metres, discus throw, shot put and 4 x 400 metres relay.\n\n\nThe soccer tournament was won by the host country Nigeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "47570673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47570673", "title": "2015 China Victory Day Parade", "text": "2015 China Victory Day Parade\n\nThe 2015 China Victory Day parade was a military parade held along Changan Avenue, Beijing, on 3 September 2015 to celebrate the 70th anniversary of Victory over Japan Day of World War II. The commemoration was the first high-profile military parade held to celebrate an occasion other than the National Day of the People's Republic of China. 12,000 troops of the People's Liberation Army participated in the parade, in addition to over 1,000 troops from 17 different countries, also about 850,000 \"Citizen Guards\" were mobilised to guard the city. Xi Jinping inspected the troops. Premier Li Keqiang was the master of ceremonies and Song Puxuan was the chief commander of the parade.\n\nThe 70th Anniversary of V-day parade marked the first time that China held a military parade other than the National Day, and the first to celebrate the end of World War II. Since the founding of the People's Republic in 1949, China held parades primarily on October 1, the country's national day. The most prominent renditions of the parade were held in 1959, 1984, 1999, and 2009, presided over respectively by then leaders Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping, Jiang Zemin, and Hu Jintao. The 70th anniversary parade was also the first major parade since Xi Jinping took power as the President of the People's Republic of China and General Secretary of the Communist Party of China . The prevailing theme was to be \"peace and victory\". Xi Jinping had attended the 2015 Moscow Victory Day Parade in May as the guest-of-honour of Russian president Vladimir Putin, and Putin returned the favour at this parade.\n\nNational leadership placed considerable importance on being able to put the best foot forward and do away with distractions. Bloomberg reported that the central government once again intervened in the stock market to ensure stability ahead of the anniversary; there were traffic curfews and closures of public facilities including seven parks and some hospitals. Line 1, Beijing Subway, which passes underneath Changan Avenue, was shut down; 256 bus-lines in Beijing were placed under tight transport restrictions from September 2–4. On the day of the parade, hospitals restricted most of their activities beyond emergencies, the stock markets were closed. Areas in the city centre were placed under martial law, and 850,000 \"citizen guards\" were deployed to ensure security within the city. The city authorities sent in trained macaques and falcons to make sure the skies over central Beijing were free of birds that would put the flypast at risk. The trained macaque monkeys climbed trees and dismantled birds nests in advance of the parade. Hot air balloons and hang gliders were equally barred from the city; those residing along Changan Avenue were forbidden from opening their windows during the lock-down period. Domestic satellite televisions were restricted from playing entertainment programs between September 1–5. China Central Television ceased the broadcasting of all entertainment programming, only playing films and TV series about the Second World War. Xi Jinping decreed the creation of two new public holidays targeted at Japan, the first being September 3 - Victory over Japan Day, officially named The 70th anniversary of Chinese People’s Anti-Japanese War and the World Anti-Fascist War Victory Commemoration Day. The second one was declared for December 13, marking the Japanese takeover of Nanjing, China's then capital under the Nationalists and the Nanking Massacre that followed, which resulted in many Chinese deaths by Japanese military personnel garrisoned in the city. The CY Leung administration in Hong Kong argued for a holiday to facilitate participation in commemorative events, thus it tabled the \"Special Holiday (3 September 2015) Ordinance\" – designating the day as a one-off holiday – for debate in the Legislative Council of Hong Kong (LegCo) in July. The act passed despite strong resistance and more than 90 amendments from one legislator. \nTo reduce air pollution and ensure blue skies for the parade, half of Beijing's cars were barred from the streets and nearly 10,000 industrial firms in Beijing and in areas near and far – Hebei, Tianjin, Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, Shandong and Henan – suspended or cut production starting on August 20 to cut down on emissions. The factory shut-downs and road closures gave rise to rare instance of clean air, where PM2.5 measurements were below 50, and the lack of traffic jams, and these were welcomed by residents of the capital. Observers noted that the umbrella, which became iconic in Hong Kong during the protests in 2014, were nowhere to be seen despite the blazing heat although commonly used as a shield against the sun in China.\n\nXi Jinping, who holds the posts for the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, President of the People's Republic of China, and Chairman of the Central Military Commission, was the central figure of the day's events. Premier Li Keqiang was the master of ceremonies for the parade, breaking convention from its two previous renditions of the parade, which were both hosted by the Communist Party Secretary of Beijing (Jia Qinglin in 1999 and Liu Qi in 2009). General Song Puxuan, Commander of the Northern Theater Command, greeted Xi in front of Tiananmen at the start of the parade during the inspection segment, declaring the readiness of the troops for the marchpast.\n\nAtop Tiananmen, Xi Jinping wore a Mao suit, as was customary for leaders inspecting troops at military parades; his wife ( there is no 'first lady' in China ) Peng Liyuan wore a red dress. The remaining political figures wore business suits. Xi delivered the keynote address at the parade with a surprise announcement of a plan to cut 300,000 personnel from the Chinese military. The other members of the Politburo Standing Committee, Zhang Dejiang, Yu Zhengsheng, Liu Yunshan, Wang Qishan, and Zhang Gaoli, watched the parade on top of Tiananmen Gate.\n\nFormer paramount leaders Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao; former Premiers Li Peng, Zhu Rongji and Wen Jiabao; and other former senior leaders Li Ruihuan, Wu Bangguo, Jia Qinglin, Li Lanqing, Song Ping, Zeng Qinghong, Wu Guanzheng, Li Changchun, Luo Gan, and He Guoqiang, also attended the parade at Tiananmen. This meant that all former members of the Standing Committee who were in good standing with the party and alive at the time of the parade attended the event; they sat in strict protocol sequence to the right of the members of the incumbent Politburo Standing Committee.\n\nHong Kong Special Administration Region chief executive Leung Chun-ying also led a 300-person group at the parade, and Macau Chief Executive Fernando Chui also attended.\n\nCurrent leaders and diplomats in attendance:\nLeaders international organizations in attendance:\n\nFormer leaders in attendance:\n\nFormer Philippine President Joseph Estrada attended the parade, not as a representative of his country but as part of his duties as Mayor of Manila. Estrada cited the fact that Manila and Beijing were sister cities as his reason for attending the event.\n\nTaiwan's Mainland Affairs Council, President Ma Ying-jeou and his Kuomintang objected to the event and what they see as the Communist Party usurping credit for leading the Chinese defence against Japan during World War II. However, former Chairman of the Kuomintang Lien Chan also attended the parade, ostensibly in his personal capacity, sparking controversy at home. Whilst Tsai Ing-wen, leader of the Taiwanese opposition, criticised Lian for failing to represent the views of the majority of Taiwanese, observers noted that Lien had considerable business interests on the mainland he sought to protect, likewise the Kuomintang also had interests on the mainland. Hong Kong commentator Frank Ching added that Lien Chan's presence at the ceremony undermined the KMT, as China appeared to erase the role of the Nationalists in defending China.\n\nOther pundits said that the main object of the parade was to rewrite history and elevate the Communist Party's position in ending the war.\n\nKyodo News Agency cited a US department of State spokesman that United States objected the President of Sudan Bashir to attend the parade in the news conference held on August 31, 2015. He stated that China should consider about the international society's worry as a UN security council member with inviting or assisting someone who is wanted under the document of warrant signed by ICC.\n\nSome 12,000 troops marched along Changan Avenue up to Tiananmen for inspection by paramount leader Xi Jinping and the two living former leaders. There were 10 squads ( 9 from People's Liberation Army and 1 from People's Armed Police), Each squad had 350 soldiers (excluding the color guards) and were led by two major generals or lieutenant generals in active service. In total, 56 generals participated in the event. The military vehicle contingent were led by two Air Force lieutenant generals, a vice admiral and a lieutenant general of the People's Liberation Army Rocket Force: Tian Zhong, deputy commander of the PLA Navy, Chen Dong, deputy commander of the PLA Air Force, Wu Guohua, deputy commander of the PLA Rocket Force. Zheng Qunliang another deputy commander of the Air Force, commanded the squadron of jet fighters in the air. This was the first time in PRC's history that military parade contingents were led by officers ranked as high as lieutenant general.\n\nSurviving soldiers from the Second World War joined the parade for the first time. They had fought under various commands, including the New Fourth Army, the National Revolutionary Army, and the Eighth Route Army, with most over 90 years old then. Some of the passed warriors' widows marched in place of their late husbands. Besides Chinese soldiers, some surviving airmen of United States Air Force who had fought alongside Chinese forces also joined the veterans column. The veterans rode in open-top buses at the start of the parade and were escorted by the People's Armed Police Motorcycle Escort Squadron.\n\nThe color guard consisted of 207 men and women from the PLA Honor Guard Battalion, who escorted the national military colours. This marked the first occasion of female service personnel forming part of the honor guard during a national parade. Their first public presentation occurred during the state visit of the President of Turkmenistan to Beijing in May 2015, where for the first time they used the Type 56 ceremonial rifle.\n\nThe Communist Party of China's hero squads consisted of detachments that traced their lineage to units that participated in the war against Japan, which included the \"Langya Mountain Five Hero Squad\" (狼牙山五壮士), \"Battle of Pingxingguan Hero Squad\", and the \"Hundred Regiments Offensive Hero Squad\". Representative detachments from each Chinese military region participated in the parade, led by soldiers carrying standards used by the predecessor units.\n\nThese represented the following CPC formations during the war against Japan:\n\n\nA detachment of the People's Armed Police also participated in the parade, the unit having previously been part of the PLA. The unit's lineage, through the 114th Division of the 38th Army, can also be traced to regiments that fought during the war.\n\nGroups from 17 countries were sent to take part in the military parade. Marching in alphabetical order these were:\n\nA group of the latest model of China's Type 99 main battle tank. The A marks the last iteration of the Type 99 as the tank is near finalization.\n\nOn parade where the infantry fighting vehicle (ZBD-05A) and fire support variants (ZTD-05) of the People's Liberation Army Marine Corps ZBD2000 vehicle, with an ability to plane when waterborne these are the fastest amphibious armoured fighting vehicles in the world.\n\nThe ZBD-04A infantry fighting vehicle, a troop carrying counterpart to the Type 99 MBT was paraded.\n\nThe ZBD-03 IFV is a light airmobile infantry fighting vehicle (IFV) and the most mobile IFV of China's People's Liberation Army, was displayed for the first time in the parade. Anti-tank missile and Light Assault Vehicles variants. came afterward.\n\nSelf-propelled Red Arrow 10 anti-tank guided missile vehicles with anti-helicopter-warfare, fire and forget and man-in-the-loop capabilities were also paraded.\n\nA group of PLZ-05A (1×155MM Howitzer) and PGZ-07 (2×35×228MM Oerlikon KDA guns) self-propelled guns, often nicknamed the \"God of War\" considering that they are the biggest guns in the Chinese military.\n\n\n\nDF-21D, the world's first Anti-Ship Ballistic Missile, was on display in the parade. They came immediately after the DF-15 and DF-16 missiles.\n\nThe DF-41, reportedly China's newest ICBM, was not shown in the parade.\n\nThe squad included 1 KJ-2000 and 8 J-10. They were first displayed in 2009 China's National Day Parade.\n\nChina's newest early warning plane, the KJ-500, was displayed for the first time in this parade.\n\nThe H-6K was debuted as well.\n\n5×Shenyang J-15, a carrier-based fighter jet, was also debuted in this parade.\n\nChina's most advanced fighter jet, the J-20, was not shown in the parade.\n\n8×WZ-10 (7) and 12×WZ-19 (0) helicopters formed the number \"70\" in the sky at 10:20 to mark the 70 years since the Victory over the Japanese.\n\nThe Parade began at 10:09 and ended at 11:40. After the parade, Xi Jinping held a reception of the visiting international dignitaries.\n\nChina's Ministry of National Defence spokesman Yang Yujun said that the cuts to the size of the military would include personnel not trained for battle.\n\nAccording to his opinion, China will modify the 'command system' by simplifying its management structure. China's one-star general Xu Guangyu also said that the China's People's Armed Police will be reformed appropriately.\n\nFor historical reasons, China's military structure emphasizes the army and land forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "56675360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56675360", "title": "2020 European Canoe Slalom Championships", "text": "2020 European Canoe Slalom Championships\n\nThe 2020 European Canoe Slalom Championships will take place in London, England from 15 to 17 May 2020 under the auspices of the European Canoe Association (ECA). It will be the 21st edition of the competition and London will host the event for the first time. The competitions will take place at the Lee Valley White Water Centre, site of the 2012 Summer Olympics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45225353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45225353", "title": "Afropunk Festival", "text": "Afropunk Festival\n\nThe Afropunk Festival (commonly referred to as Afropunk or Afropunk Fest) is an annual arts festival that includes live music, film, fashion, and art produced by black artists. The festival made its first debut at the Brooklyn Academy of Music (BAM) in 2005, and has since expanded to other parts of the world. Originally co-founded by James Spooner and Matthew Morgan, the festival was inspired by Spooner's 2003 documentary film \"Afro-Punk, which\" spotlighted black punks across America and later culminated in a series of live shows entitled \"The Liberation Sessions\" co-curated by Spooner and Morgan. The festival originally sought to provide black people an opportunity to build community within the predominantly white punk subculture and to provide a stage for black alternative performers that were not acknowledged in the mainstream and stood outside hip hop, R&B, soul, etc. To attract a wider audience, the festival shifted to include soul music and hip hop, which expanded its target demographic, attracting headliners including Ice Cube, Lauryn Hill, Lenny Kravitz, and Gary Clark, Jr.. Musical performers now represent a variety of genres, primarily known to reflect African-American culture.\n\nAfropunk's changes to its diverse cultural showcase has allowed for the festival to build its masses to 60,000 attendees. Due to festival alterations that deviated from the original Afropunk culture, former co-founder, James Spooner made the decision to end his involvement in 2008. Soon after, Jocelyn Cooper was introduced to the festival as co-organizer, broadening Afropunk Fest to Atlanta, Paris, London, and Johannesburg, South Africa.\n\nJames Spooner debuted his 66-minute documentary film \"Afro-Punk\" in 2003. It explores the lives of black youth within a white punk subculture with the aim of expanding notions of blackness and reclaiming rock's roots by providing a platform for black artists that were not given the opportunity elsewhere. Growing up bi-racial, on the streets of New York City, Spooner discovered and connected with the punk music scene and its culture but also felt alienated from both his white peers in the scene and the black community outside the scene. After examining the world of hardcore punk in America at the time, and noticing the lack of people of color, along with the absence of dialogue around race despite its activist leanings, he began to question what it means to be black within alternative scenes. Digging deeper into the subject of race became the inspiration for his documentary. Traveling throughout the United States and abroad, Spooner followed the lives of four African Americans who submerged and dedicated their lives to the punk rock scene and its values. Through exclusive interviews with punks and various punk rock bands including, Fishbone, 24-7 Spyz, and Dead Kennedys, Spooner's documentary covered issues of loneliness, exile, inter-racial dating, and the double lives people of color lead within a predominately white sub-cultured community.\n\nSpooner toured the film throughout the United States and the world, screening it over 300 times and garnering followers and building community. He then created a message board to connect alternative black people from around the world. Soon after he held shows to foster that community. Shows included Bad Brains Tributes, The Double Consciousness Rock series at CBGBs, a west coast tour and screening with Ricky Fitts, and others.\n\nSpooner was later interested in having the black fronted rock band Stiffed perform after one of his screenings. He contacted Santi White's manager, Matthew Morgan, who thought that the opportunity would be a vehicle to get Santi signed. After success with Spooner's film and the live events, the two began to collaborate on a party called the Liberation Sessions, which promoted black artistry via music and film. Two years later, they would go on to create the Afropunk Music and Film Festival from 2005 to 2008 in conjunction with the Brooklyn Academy of Music.\n\nAfter being featured at the Toronto International Film Festival, American Black Film Festival, and the Pan African Film & Arts Festival, \"AfroPunk\" began receiving multiple awards and forms of recognition from all over the world. With \"Afro-Punk\"'s rising notability, Spooner mobilized the black punk rock community he had created on Afropunk.com's message board. The message board gained thousands of members with common interests: black punk rock music and values.\n\nOn September 5, 2018, Lou Constant-Desportes, founding editor-in-chief of AFROPUNK.com, announced his resignation citing \"performative 'activism' dipped in consumerism and 'woke' keywords used for marketing purposes,\" as well as \"lies, gaslighting, disrespect, victim-blaming, exploitation, not to mention overworked, undervalued and underpaid staff being kept in precarious situations.\"\n\nAfropunk, the festival, was created as a safe space for black alternative-minded punks to freely express themselves and build a community with one another. The festival was free and was supported by The Brooklyn Academy of Music. As the festival grew larger, reaching larger demographics, the presence of punk culture began to shift toward a larger audience, focusing more on neo-soul, pop, or hip hop performances. Along with the notable change in the festival's focused genre, the festival also began charging admission prices. As Afropunk became scantily punk, moving away from its origins and original demographic, James Spooner also departed. During Afropunk's fourth festival, a rap-reggea-punk band performed a cover of Buju Banton's, \"Boom Bye Bye,\" which caused controversy with the black queer community, one of Afropunk's core target demographic groups. Spooner jumped on stage and denounced the song and its presence at the festival. Disheartened with how Morgan was deviating from Afropunk's original values, and transitioning the festival more towards a mainstream audience, James Spooner departed in 2008.\n\nAfter James Spooner's departure in 2008, music industry veteran, Jocelyn Cooper joined Matthew Morgan in 2009. As the former head of A&R at Universal, Cooper transitioned into Afropunk's music festival by aiding in the development of their sponsorships and directing Multiply, Afropunk's marketing, content, and advertising agency. With Cooper's involvement, she's was able to secure brand partnership deals with MillerCoors, Toyota, Nike, and Pantene. As Jocelyn developed relationships with major companies, giving her the opportunity to broaden Afropunk across seas, she was able to expand the Brooklyn-based summer festival from 2,500 attendees to 90,000 among multiple cities, including Atlanta in 2015 and Paris and London in 2016. New to the roster for its 2017 festival tour will include Johannesburg, South Africa.\n\nHaving emerged from political punk roots, Afropunk Fest has faced criticism throughout its history, including backlash over booking choices such as MIA (a non black performer who critiqued the Black Lives Matter Movement), Ice Cube (a rapper with past accusations of misogyny), Tyler the Creator (a performer with a history of homophobia and lyrics normalizing rape), along with others. Attendees have also critiqued the values of Afropunk's organizers surrounding LGBQT concerns, treatment of employees, and its corporate leanings. Some attendees critique the festival for appealing to white audiences, including an instance of attendees being removed from an area of the festival for wearing a homemade t-shirt critical of the event. In August of 2018, Afropunk's Editor-In-Chief resigned after over a decade of work for Afropunk citing mistreatment and a corporate agenda he labeled \"performative activism\". There are also lawsuits and other reports of abuse that have been circulating the festival. \n\n"}
{"id": "18662246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18662246", "title": "Al-Maydān", "text": "Al-Maydān\n\nAl-Maydӑn is an Egyptian independent weekly newspaper published in Arabic. The paper was first published on 16 March 1995. It is part of Al Maydān Inc. In 2001, its editor-in-chief, Mohammed Mohammed Al Mursy, was arrested and jailed for taking bribes from a producer to stop the defamation campaign against him published in the paper.\n"}
{"id": "28999713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28999713", "title": "Bakitone International", "text": "Bakitone International\n\nBakitone International is a non-profit organization based in Athens, Greece that maintains a network of almost 1000 international classical music competitions around the world. Bakitone International represents interests of European Broadcasting Union members at the international level in the field of classical music since 2010. It was founded in 2008 as a promotional agency for musicians in order to assist them in selecting from the database of music competitions and master-classes to achieve their career goals.\n\nIn 2009 Bakitone International has opened branches in Moscow, Russia, Shanghai, China and Los Angeles, USA. The organization has quickly earned international acclaim amongst young artists, as well as famous musicians, such as Vladimir Ashkenazy, Daniel Pollack and Yuri Bashmet. In 2009 Bakitone was featured on TV Kultura channel and Newsland channel in Russia, dedicated to classical music and arts. In 2010 the organization published a magazine in Russia featuring interviews with Daniel Pollack and Yuri Bashmet.\n\nIn September 2010, Bakitone International has established a special award for the best performance at \"The Muse International Piano Competition\" in Athens, Greece. The Prize was awarded to a 5-year old prodigy violinist Dunja Kalamir from Serbia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25194061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25194061", "title": "Baltic Touring Car Championship", "text": "Baltic Touring Car Championship\n\nThe Baltic Touring Car Championship or BaTCC is a touring car racing series held each year in the Baltic states. The championship is regulated by a board containing two representatives each from the automobile associations of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Eligible cars for the championship have often changed over recent years. In 2018 there are class entries for BTC1, BTC2, Baltic GT, Super 1600, National Cars.\n\nDrivers from the BaTCC with Super Production and Super 1600 cars are eligible to enter the FIA European Touring Car Cup\n\nRaces are held in race tracks in Baltic States. Auto24ring in Estonia, Biķernieki in Latvia, Nemuno Ziedas in Lithuania.\n\nThe race day format features two races per round, with standing starts for Legends and Touring cars and rolling start for GT cars. There were a total of five rounds in 2017, with three rounds each at Riga and one in Parnu and Palanga.\n\nBaTCC championship is held together with Baltic Endurance Championship or BEC 4H. Teams participate in 4 hour endurance races in different racing categories.\n\nCars used are often BMW M3, Honda Civics, VW Golf, Opel Astra and others.\n\nThe following shows the key specifications issues for each class. BTC and Hankook Trophy category have two 10 lap races per event. While BEC Championship has one 4 hour race per event.\n\nBTC1 cars with engine capacity from 1798cm3 to 2800cm3.\n\nBTC2 cars with engine capacity from 2800cm3 to 4500cm3. Class BTC2 maximum engine capacity is allowed 4500cm3 which includes all the ratios of the Technical Regulations. (Example: 2000cm3 bi-turbo engine has a ratio 2,2 which means actual engine capacity would equal 4400 cm3). Maximum 6 cylinder engines are allowed in class BTC2.\n\nBGT or Baltic GT class is meant for FIA GT3 and GT4 cars (with present or expired FIA homologation) and all touring cars which are not in conformity with requirements of the classes BTC1 and BTC2. Cars which do not have FIA homologation approved weights should use ratio table from the Technical Regulations for Baltic Touring Cars. Minimum engine capacity (including all ratios) is set to be 1998 cm3.\n\nHankook Trophy uses Hankook Z222 195/50R15 racing tyre model.\n\nSuper 1600 category shall be open for all cars that have been or are in serialproduction with maximum cylinder capacity of 1640 cm3 and one driving axle.\n\nNational Class category is open for cars with stock engines and gearboxes. Class is divided into 2 divisions - up to 170 BHP and up to 210 BHP.\n\nA2000 Racing cars with engine capacity up to 2000 cm3\n\nA3000 Racing cars with engine capacity up to 3000 cm3\n\nA3000+ Racing cars with engine capacity over 3000 cm3\n\nGT Racing cars with 6 or less cylinder engines and/or theoretical engine capacity over 4500 cm3, all racing cars that used to be and still are certified by FIA as GT and SRO cars. Also, all cars that meet GT class philosophy, however, were not made for racing according to FIA, for example, when road car is remade to racing vehicle (Porsche, Ferrari, etc.)\n\nX1 Experimental (exclusive) racing cars, also, cars made according to experimental producible cars (with tubular or frame type bodies or any other exclusive aspects).\n\nD1 Diesel cars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36464677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36464677", "title": "Battle of Damascus (2012)", "text": "Battle of Damascus (2012)\n\nThe Battle of Damascus (), also known as Operation Damascus Volcano (), started on 15 July 2012 during the Syrian Civil War. It is unclear who started the battle. Thousands of rebels infiltrated Damascus from the surrounding countryside. Following this, according to some reports, the opposition forces launched an operation to capture the capital, while according to other reports, the military learned of the large-scale rebel operation beforehand and made a preemptive strike. Some reports even suggested the rebels launched the operation prematurely due to their plans being discovered by the security forces.\n\nAfter the rebels initially captured half a dozen districts and killed four high-ranking government ministers in a bombing, opposition forces were forced to retreat following a military counter-attack, leaving the army in control of the capital after three weeks of fighting. It was the first time tanks and helicopters had been deployed in central Damascus and left parts of the city as a warzone.\n\nOn 15 July, fierce fighting was reported in some quarters of central Damascus as the army moved in to dislodge rebels. The rebels fighting were the ones who were routed from Douma and other suburbs and fled to Damascus itself. Fighting also closed the road leading from central Damascus to airport. The rebels were also on the offensive, attacking the Hajar al-Aswad district.\n\nOn 16 July, for a second day, heavy clashes in the southern Midan and Tadhamon districts of Damascus raged with the military managing to surround the rebel forces in the area and sending tanks and other armored vehicles into the neighborhoods. The FSA had reportedly taken control of the two districts earlier and the military was making attempts to overrun it. The rebels called the clashes a raid by them against the capital, while the government called it a 48-hour military operation to clear the area of any opposition forces. There were also indications that the government knew about the planned rebel raid and acted on the information. According to state TV, the military killed over 80 rebel fighters during the fighting.\n\nOn 17 July, shooting was reported in one of the main central streets and machine-gun fire was reported in nearby Sabaa Bahrat Square, site of the Central Bank of Syria, which was the scene of several major pro-government demonstrations. A brief firefight also erupted near the Syrian parliament building. Fighting was ongoing in the southern Midan and Kfar Sousa districts and the northern Barzeh and Qaboun districts. Artillery shelling was reported in all of them and specifically in Midan it was reported to be \"hysterical\", according to activists. At the same time, in Barzeh and Qaboun, helicopter rocket strikes were reported. Later, helicopter strikes were reportedly hitting all four neighborhoods. The state-run news agency reported that rebel forces had retreated from the Nahr Aisha district to Midan, where fighting was continuing. Army reinforcements were sent from the Golan Heights to help defend the capital. This was confirmed by Israeli army intelligence. \"The Syrian military is acting very brutally, which shows the regime is desperate. Its control of Damascus is getting weaker,\" Major General Aviv Kochavi told a parliamentary committee in Israel.\n\nThe rebels claimed to have killed 70 soldiers and pro-government militiamen in the previous two days of clashes, while the government reported 14 rebel vehicles were destroyed and an army officer stated that they killed 33 rebels, wounded 15 and captured 145 in the day's fighting in the Qaboun area, where the majority of opposition forces were reportedly. An activist, Shakeeb al-Jabri, claimed that more than 200 soldiers had been killed or wounded in total. A deputy police chief, Brigadier General Issa Duba, was said to have died from wounds sustained during the clashes, according to a pro-Assad website. The FSA stated they destroyed one armored vehicle and captured another and that, among the members of the Syrian military who were killed, were several rooftop snipers. The opposition also claimed to have shot down an army helicopter in the Qaboun district.\n\nThere were contradictions among the rebels themselves on the nature of the conflict. One FSA commander declared that the \"battle for liberation of Damascus had begun\". The FSA dubbed their assault \"Operation Damascus Volcano\". But Tarek, the rebel spokesman in Damascus, stated the clashes were still only skirmishes. He also said the FSA didn't start the battle, which would be in line with earlier reports that the military made a preemptive strike on the opposition forces, after learning of their plan for the attack on the capital. Government Information Minister Omran Zoabi stated that the military confronted rebel forces who infiltrated the city, surrounded them and forced many to retreat, while the rest were still being dealt with. RT reporter Maria Finoshina stated that fighting was nowhere near the level she experienced during the government assault on the suburb of Douma the previous week. She said that except for continuing occasional gunfire and military patrols “it doesn't seem like final or decisive battle for the capital\". Several videos of the fighting in the capital emerged during the day.\n\nOn 18 July, Syrian state TV reported that a suicide attack that targeted National Security headquarters in Damascus killed Syrian defense minister General Daoud Rajha during a meeting of ministers and a number of heads of security agencies. Many other VIPs were wounded and killed in the attack as well. Also killed were Assef Shawkat, Bashar al-Assad's brother-in-law and deputy defense minister, the assistant to the vice president general Hassan Turkomani and Hafez Makhlouf, head of investigations at the Syrian Intelligence Agency. The country's intelligence chief Hisham Bekhityar was seriously wounded. There were conflicting reports on the fate of the Interior minister Mohammad Ibrahim al-Shaar with initial accounts stating that he had also been killed, but later state TV reported that he survived although wounded. Additional reports stated that he was in stable condition. The bomber was reportedly a bodyguard of one of the meeting attendant. The opposition meanwhile claimed that the cause of the explosion was not a suicide bomber, but that a rebel insider planted bombs inside of the building and detonated it remotely from a distant location.\n\nAlso, during the night, residents reported that an army barracks near the Presidential Palace, about a hundred meters from the presidential palace itself, came under heavy fire with residents posting video showing a fire, but no explosions were heard. Earlier in the day, SANA stated that government troops were pushing into the Midan district. At the same time, SOHR relayed that the Barzeh and Qaboun districts were under helicopter attack. Fighting was also reported in the Kfar Souseh and Nahr Aisha districts.\n\nAfter the bombing, the Free Syrian Army claimed that army troops had withdrawn from the Midan district. However, less than an hour later, state TV claimed to be broadcasting live footage of clashes in the neighborhood. According to Al-Jazeera, the military shelled the district. Early in the evening, opposition activists reported that Midan was raided by the military. The FSA meanwhile moved its troops to the al-Sabina area. Residents in the Barzeh district, where rebels were holding out earlier, reported that only government troops were to be found in the neighborhood's streets.\n\nOpposition activists claimed that Syrian army commander Mohammad al-Bardan defected to the rebel side along with his soldiers and Al Arabiya reported that soldiers from 3rd Armored Division were withdrawing from several Damascus districts and leaving their tanks behind following the bombing. However, this was not independently confirmed or relayed by other news media. Reuters reported that the Syrian Army escalated its response to the bombing by firing on suburbs from artillery batteries located on a mountain overlooking Damascus. Al Jazeera meanwhile reported that FSA was able to shoot down two helicopters that had been shelling Tadamon and Al-Hajjar al-Aswad districts. As before, this report could not be independently verified due to restrictions placed on the journalists. A monitoring group, SOHR, reported that 60 soldiers had been killed on the third and fourth day of fighting.\n\nThe security forces gave residents 48 hours to flee the fighting area. One military source told that the army exercised restraint in its response in Damascus but that after the bombing, they would use all their weapons to finish the rebels.\n\nOn 19 July, the military launched an offensive to push back rebel forces that infiltrated Damascus. Damascus residents reported ongoing shelling of several districts, including Midan and Kafr Souseh. Residents were meanwhile arming themselves, with many citizens fleeing districts which were hit by ongoing battles. The army removed its checkpoints around Midan district and the ancient Old City for reasons unknown.\n\nAfterwards, opposition groups accused the Syrian army in massacring 100 civilians that had been shot and killed by security forces gunfire during a funeral procession in al-Sayida Zainab on the outskirts of Damascus. However, later reports by opposition groups revised the toll to at least 60. Meanwhile, the FSA reportedly shelled Damascus International Airport with mortars 20 times.\n\nIt was reported that the president, Bashar al-Assad, was in the coastal city of Latakia, directing the fighting in Damascus. However, it was unclear if he traveled there from Damascus before or after the bombing attack. One opposition official stated that they had information he may have been in Latakia for days. Meanwhile, following the Damascus bombing, his mother and sister went to Tartus. Also, rumors circulated around Damascus that al-Assad's wife, Asma, had gone to Russia. During the day, al-Assad was shown on state TV attending the swearing-in of his new defense minister.\n\nAn activist based in the eastern Damascus district Mezze said in interview with The Guardian that rebels had taken control over the Midan and Qaboun districts with fighting raging in Kafr Souseh and Mezze. He also claimed three tanks were destroyed in Kafr Souseh by the FSA.\n\nLater that day, the Syrian Army stormed the Qaboun district with a large number of tanks, according to the opposition group Syrian Observatory, who said the army's move stoked fears of an imminent massacre in the area. Earlier, rebels attacked the central police command in Old Damascus, killing five officers. That night, Syrian State TV broadcast footage of Qaboun, showing the corpses of about 20 dead rebels. The opposition group, Syrian Observatory, said that 23 rebels and 47 alleged civilians were killed in Damascus during the day.\n\nThe following day, security sources told AFP that the Army had launched a general offensive in Damascus. The Syrian Army continued its counter-attack, storming the quarter of Jobar in Damascus, searching for rebels. The Syrian official press agency stated that the army inflicted heavy losses on the rebels in Qaboun and that the Syrian Army regained control of Midan. The rebels confirmed this stating they had been forced to withdraw from Midan after the army assault.\n\nRebel fighters stormed and burned the Sa'iqa military camp, which was being used as a training facility, in the Basateen al-Mezzeh district in central Damascus according to activists.\n\nAt the end of 20 July, Damascus center and areas beyond were reported to be under firm government control with some fighting continuing only in the outskirts. The rebels who were fighting near the Yarbouk camp were overrun by the Army and the Palestinian factions loyal to the government.\n\nOn 21 July, a security source told AFP that the Army took control of Tadamon, Qaboun and Barzeh, in addition to Midan, the previous day, but that fighting was still ongoing in the Jobar, Kfar Sousa and Mazeeh quarters. It was later confirmed that Barzeh was still rebel-held. Activists claimed that fighting was still reported in Damascus proper, with clashes in the northern Barzeh and Rukneddine districts and that a police station was attacked on Khaled bin Waleed street, with an activist saying rebels in Damascus were staging hit-and-run attacks as opposed to controlling areas. Still, during the morning, the city was largely calm according to residents. SOHR said the military bombarded the Al-Kaddam and Assali neighborhoods of Damascus. Residents also reported fighting in the Al-Hajar Al-Aswad and Tadamon districts.\n\nUndated online video posted by activists appeared to show the local police station being overrun at Yarmouk and clashes were reported in the Northern suburb of al-Tal, where the head of the local Political Security Directorate (PSD) branch and all his staff reportedly surrendered to FSA fighters. 12 civilians were reported killed during the day, seven of them by sniper fire. However, Reuters confirmed that the city was calm and that the police checkpoints which had been abandoned during the fighting were back.\n\nDuring the day, Brig. Gen. Nabil Zougheib, a Christian, was assassinated along with his wife and two sons. Islamist radicals from the Wahhabist rebel group Brigade of Islam claimed responsible for the killings. Islamist fighters from the Muslim Brotherhood also reportedly attacked Iraqi refugees in the southeastern part of the city.\n\nOn 22 July, fierce fighting was reported along with intense shelling by reporters. Activists said that helicopter gunships fired rockets into a southern Damascus neighbourhood. A journalist reported that helicopters were also shelling Barzeh.\n\nLater, the Syrian Army led by the Fourth division stormed the district of Barzeh. The Fourth division also routed the rebels out of Mezzeh after 1,000 troops entered the district backed-up by armoured vehicles, tanks and bulldozers. The military continued their advance by forcing the rebels to withdraw from Rukn al-Din. State media reported that the soldiers were pursuing the last remnants of the rebels. By the end of the day, activists confirmed that Barzeh was also overrun by government troops and that at least five young men, possibly rebels, were summarily executed. The rebel operation to capture Damascus seemed close to collapse according to a journalist and activists reported that army soldiers executed at least 20 unarmed men in Mezzeh that they suspected of aiding rebels.\n\nSyrian State media showed graphic images of foreign Arab fighters killed in Qaboun, including two Egyptians and three Jordanians, identified by their identity papers. The next day, the bodies of 23 people, who were reportedly \"executed\" in Mezze and Barzeh, were found, some of which had torture marks.\n\nMeanwhile, the Israeli military confirmed that president Assad, along with his family, was still in the capital, contradicting earlier reports that they left the city for Latakia.\n\nOn 23 July, the government declared most of the rebel forces that attacked the capital to be defeated. An opposition activist confirmed this by saying that government troops had taken control of almost all of the capital. Following this, there were disagreements between rebel commanders about the opportunity of having launched the Damascus battle as rebel colonel Riad al-Asaad disagreed with rebel colonel Qasem Saadedine who started the operation. The opposition activist group SOHR stated that 94 people were killed during the previous two days of fighting.\n\nA man claiming to be a civilian from Midan said \"Midan is back to normal. There were some militias who tried to control the neighbourhood, but the army came in. The [rebel] fighters were from outside Midan. Now it is free of all military opposition presence.\" In regards to the reported executions he said \"I can't confirm or deny it. But I don't think execute is the right word. These people are fighters. They are not civilians. If they were killed it doesn't mean they were executed, and they were not captured and then killed. They were killed during the operation.\" He also added that Mezzeh was not fully under government control, with the eastern orchard being a hideout for rebels. He added \"People are being encouraged to come back to Damascus. There's been a big media campaign by al-Jazeera and al-Arabiya making people believe that the whole area was under rebel control, but they only controlled some streets.\" Asked about Assad's whereabouts he said \"I know he is in Damascus. The new minister of defence took the oath of office in the presidential palace with the president. This is the same room they have used for years.\" However, other civilians were terrified for Government reprisals to speak openly in front of a camera. Alex Thompson stated that in his journey to Midan terrified locals told him that \"They used cannons, mortar, machine guns, tanks, they used helicopters – they use everything against us.\" Others said that the pro-Government militia, shabiba, massacred a family of sixteen in the district. Thompson claimed that the incident resembled the same \"story we heard of Al-Houla\" with \"The familiar pattern of heavy shelling and bombardment followed by militia going house to house looting and massacring.\" Thompson described a scene in Midan of pulverised buildings and bodies lying on the streets.\n\nThe corpses of 24 executed rebel fighters were found on 24 July in the suburbs of Daraya. Meanwhile, several shells hit the southern suburb of Hajar al-Aswad. The opposition reported that the Syrian Army attacked the last rebel pockets in the Damascus districts of Qaddam and al-Aswad. In other parts of the city, journalist Alex Thompson described that the battle as a victory for the Syrian Army, and a morale boost for the regime. In the evening, activists confirmed that most of the rebels had withdrawn from the capital.\n\nThe rebel-held town of Al-Tal, on the outskirts of Damascus, was heavily bombarded on 25 July by the 216th Mechanized Battalion of the Syrian Army. Residents and opposition activists reported that residential buildings were hit. On the same day, opposition activists released amateur footage of what they claimed were the bodies of 23 people in various houses who were \"massacred\" during the previous days in the Qaboun district.\n\nOn 26 July, fighting was reported in the Hajar al-Aswad district of the capital, a place described as one of the last rebel strongholds in Damascus. The FSA withdrew to the district which was subsequently shelled by government forces. According to an opposition activist, clashes continued across most of the southern part of the city. Five civilians were reportedly killed. The army also attacked the Yarmouk Palestinian refugee camp, despite there being no rebel presence. Residents mentioned tanks, helicopter gunships and snipers who shot at anyone in the street. The FSA were reported to be in the district of Tadamon and shelling was still reported in the neighbourhoods of Orouba and Thalathin.\n\nOn 29 July, SANA reported that government troops had cleared the Hajar al-Aswad district of rebel forces and the government declared \"victory\" in the capital.\n\nFollowing the retreat of rebel forces from much the city, fighting continued. Rebel remnants, that did not pull back from Damascus with the other opposition forces, converged on the Tadamon district, where they made the area their final stronghold. The military launched an operation on 1 August to clear them out and by 3 August dozens of military vehicles had entered the district. During the fighting, on 2 August, mortars hit the nearby Yarmouk Palestinian refugee camp, killing 15-21 people.\n\nOn 1 August, at the same time as the Tadamon operation started, the military raided the town of Jdaidet Artuz, southwest of Damascus, rounding up around 100 people suspected of being rebel sympathisers or opposition activists. The detainees were taken to a school where they were reportedly tortured and 43 of them were executed, according to SOHR. Syrian state media reported that the armed group located in the city was defeated, with dozens of insurgents killed, and that most of the others surrendered later. A picture of some prisoners was then published. The State media also reported that similar successful operations on Yalda and Babila took place against the insurgents.\n\nOn 4 August, the Tadamon district was cleared of insurgents and the general who led the operation, which involved special forces, announced during a press tour of the quarter that the whole of Damascus had been secured and was under the full control of the Syrian Army. The Syrian Army reported that there were 800 rebels in Tadamon, and that 300 of them had been killed in the last assault. The Army also uncovered a mass grave where 20 civilians and army personnel had been buried.\n\nUpon retaking the capital Damascus, the Syrian government began a campaign of collective punishment against the civilian residents of Sunni suburbs in-and-around the capital which had supported FSA presence in their neighborhoods.\n\nFollowing the battle, the FSA stated that they were to conduct guerrilla hit-and-run attacks against security forces in the capital in the future.\n\nOn 11 August, the Syrian army clashed with rebels in the heart of Damascus near the Syrian central bank according to state TV and residents. An explosion was followed by fighting which appeared to be spreading, said the resident, who asked not to be named for fear of arrest. \"The explosion was huge. There has been fighting for the past half an hour along Pakistan Street. I am very close. Can you hear that?\" she asked, to the sound of a loud bang.\n\nOn 15 August, the Free Syrian Army claimed it was behind a bomb attack on a military base near the UN hotel in central Damascus. Three people were injured. Afterwards, fighting between rebels and government forces took place in Mezzeh, near the Iranian embassy, and in the districts of Tadamon and Yarmouk. Also, al-Qadam and al-Asali were reportedly bombarded by the military and residents reported heavy gunfire. The military also freed the Al-Ikhbariya TV news team after an operation in the Damascus countryside. Another nine people were also reportedly freed in other operations.\n\nThe same day, the military launched a new offensive, with the aim of clearing rebel forces from towns around Damascus. During the operation, the Army captured the rebel-held towns of Al-Tall, Mouadamiya and Daraya and the southern Damascus districts of Kfar Souseh and Nahr Aisha. During the attack on Daraya, the army reportedly committed a massacre, putting the blame on FSA (see Darayya massacre).\n\nOn 26 September, Iranian state sponsored Press TV correspondent Maya Nasser was shot and killed by a sniper while reporting live.\n\n"}
{"id": "1421802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1421802", "title": "Beautiful Joe", "text": "Beautiful Joe\n\nBeautiful Joe was a dog from the town of Meaford, Ontario, whose story inspired the bestselling 1893 novel Beautiful Joe, which contributed to worldwide awareness of animal cruelty.\n\nThe real Beautiful Joe was an Airedale-type dog. He was medium-sized, brown, and described as likely being part bull terrier and part fox terrier. He was also described as a mongrel, a cur, and a mutt. He was originally owned by a local Meaford man, who cruelly abused the dog to the point of near death, and even cut off his ears and tail. Walter Moore, father of Louise Moore, rescued the dog in 1890, from what likely would have been a violent and painful death. In 1892, Margaret Marshall Saunders (1861–1947), first learned about Beautiful Joe when she visited her brother and his wife, Louise Moore. Saunders was so touched by Joe's story that she wrote a novel-length, fictionalized, autobiographical version of it, entitled \"Beautiful Joe\". Margaret Saunders relocated the story to a small town in Maine and changed the family's name from Moore to Morris to win a literary contest sponsored by the American Humane Education Society. The book was first published in 1893. By 1900, over 800,000 copies sold in the U.S., 40,000 in Canada and 100,000 in the United Kingdom.\n\nSaunders chose to write \"Beautiful Joe\" as an \"autobiography\" and tell the story from Beautiful Joe's viewpoint, and in her imagined version of Beautiful Joe's own words. While it was not the first book to tell a story from an animal's viewpoint – \"Black Beauty\" by Anna Sewell was already on its way to becoming classic literature by then – it was still an uncommon narrative device. This unusual viewpoint allowed the reader into Beautiful Joe's mind, and inarguably led the reader to feel more sympathy toward the narrator than if the material had been presented in a straightforward and documentative manner. Also, Saunders believed that she would not be taken seriously as a writer using the obviously female name Margaret Saunders, so she wrote using the variant name Marshall Saunders.\n\nSaunders submitted her story to a writing contest being run by the Humane Society in 1893. It won, and the following year it was published as a novel. The response was tremendous; both the book and its subject received worldwide attention. It was the first Canadian book in history to sell over a million copies, and by the late 1930s had sold over 7 million copies worldwide. In 1902, a sequel, \"Beautiful Joe's Paradise\", was published. In 1934, Saunders was granted Canada's highest civilian award at the time, Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire or C.B.E. In 1963, the official Beautiful Joe Park was named in Meaford, next to the Moore house where Beautiful Joe was rehabilitated by Louise Moore. A Beautiful Joe Heritage Society was formed in 1994 to preserve Joe's legacy and ultimately establish the Moore residence as a museum.\n\nSaunders did not avoid comparison of her work to the similarly themed \"Black Beauty.\" Indeed, she makes reference to \"Black Beauty\" in the very first page of \"Beautiful Joe\", not referring to it by name but writing [from Joe's viewpoint] \"I have seen my mistress laughing and crying over a little book that she says is a story of a horse's life\". Joe goes on to say that he will write the story of a dog's life, to similarly please his owner. Thus, within the context of the book at least, \"Beautiful Joe\" is directly inspired by \"Black Beauty\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10802033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10802033", "title": "Bhutanese National Assembly election, 2008", "text": "Bhutanese National Assembly election, 2008\n\nNational Assembly elections were held in Bhutan for the first time on 24 March 2008. Two parties were registered by the Election Commission of Bhutan to contest the election: the Bhutan Peace and Prosperity Party (DPT, for \"Druk Phuensum Tshogpa\"), which was formed by the merger of the previously established Bhutan People's United Party and All People's Party and is led by Jigme Y. Thinley, and the People's Democratic Party (PDP). The third political party, the Bhutan National Party (BNP), had its application for the registration canceled.\n\nThe elections for the 47 seats of the National Assembly were planned to be held in two rounds: In the first round, voters would have voted for a party. The two parties with the largest share of the national vote would then have been able to field candidates in the 47 constituencies. However, as only two parties successfully registered for the election, the election was held in one round.\n\nOn 21 April 2007, a mock election was held to prepare the population of Bhutan for the imminent change to democracy. These elections were held in all 47 National Assembly constituencies and at 869 polling stations with around 1,000 voters at each one of them. The parties \"contesting\" the election were the Druk Blue Party, the Druk Green Party, the Druk Red Party and the Druk Yellow Party (with \"Druk\" being dzongkha for \"thunder dragon\"), each of them representing certain values as their \"party manifesto\": yellow for traditional values, red for industrial development, blue for fairness and accountability, and green for the environment. The two parties winning the most votes were to proceed to a run-off election scheduled for 28 May. Election observers were present from the United Nations and from India.\n\nThe results of the first round saw the Druk Yellow Party receive a plurality of the vote.\n\nThe two leading parties, Druk Yellow Party and Druk Red Party, put up randomly chosen high school students as candidates in the 47 constituencies in the second round on 28 May 2007. The Druk Yellow Party swept the vote and won 46 of the 47 constituencies. Turnout in the second round was 66%.\n\n283,506 people had registered to vote, though it is considered likely that a total of 400,000 would have been eligible to register as voters.\n\nThe election procedure began with the submission of the letters of intent, lists of candidates, copies of election manifestos and audited financial statements by the two political parties contesting the elections to the election commission followed by the release of the party manifestos by them on 22 January 2008.\n\nFrom 31 January to 7 February 2008 both political parties submitted the nomination papers for their candidates for the 47 constituencies. The candidates, whose nominations were accepted, started campaigning in their constituencies from 7 February. The election campaign ended at 9:00 on 22 March. The last date for receiving the postal ballots was 18 February. The elections were held on 24 March from 09:00 to 17:00 followed by the counting of ballots on the same day. The results were declared on 25 March.\n\nAll eligible voters were allowed to register with the election commission until 20 February 2008 for the inclusion of their names in the voters list which was updated to include those eligible voters who were eighteen years old on or before 1 January 2008. The final electoral roll was published on 5 March 2008.\n\nTurnout reached nearly 80% by the time the polls closed, and the Bhutan Peace and Prosperity Party reportedly won 44 seats, with the People's Democratic Party winning only three seats (Phuentsholing in Chhukha, Goenkhatoe-Laya in Gasa and Sombeykha in Haa). The PDP's leader, Sangay Ngedup, who was also the ruling king's uncle, lost his own constituency by 380 votes. Reportedly, there were few differences between the platforms of the two parties, which might explain the unexpectedly uneven results; analysts were worried that the small representation of the opposition might have obstructed the functioning of the newly founded democratic system, but this does not to appear to have happened, as power peacefully changed hands after the People's Democratic Party won the 2013 National Assembly elections. Both parties had pledged to follow the king's guidelines of \"pursuing Gross National Happiness\", and both party leaders had previously served in governments.\n\nAnother attempt to explain the BPPP's large-scale victory is that it is apparently the more royalist of the two parties.\n\nAn explanation popularly given by Bhutanese in the days leading up to the election for the lack of support for the People's Democratic Party was that it would encourage corruption and be contrary to the King's request for the Bhutanese to form a popular government to elect leadership having (as was popularly believed about the PDP) strong personal ties to both the King and Bhutanese business.\n\nDue to a mistake in tallying the votes in Phuntsholing, it turned out that actually, the BPPP had won 45 seats and the PDP only 2.\n\nThe two PDP members who were elected have refused to take up their seats and resigned their mandates, claiming that the civil servants informally campaigned for the DPT and thus greatly influenced the result.\n\nThe DPT officially approved its leader as candidate for PM on 5 April 2008. He took office on 9 April.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258469", "title": "Boomerang (1947 film)", "text": "Boomerang (1947 film)\n\nBoomerang! is a 1947 American crime film noir based on the true story of a vagrant who was accused of murder, only to be found not guilty through the efforts of the prosecutor. It stars Dana Andrews, Lee J. Cobb, Karl Malden, Arthur Kennedy and Jane Wyatt.\n\nThe film was directed by Elia Kazan, based on a story (written by Fulton Oursler, credited as \"Anthony Abbot\") in \"Reader's Digest\" and was shot largely in Stamford, Connecticut after Kazan was denied permission to film in Bridgeport, Connecticut, where the actual events occurred. This semidocumentary also contains voice-overs by Reed Hadley. The film was entered into the 1947 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nFather Lambert (Wyrley Birch), a priest, is shot dead on a Bridgeport, Connecticut street at night. The police, led by Chief Robinson (Lee J. Cobb), fail to immediately find the murderer. It soon becomes a political hot potato, with the police accused of incompetence, and the city's reform-minded administration comes under attack. Robinson and the prosecutor Henry Harvey (Dana Andrews) come under severe pressure by political leaders to find the killer or bring in outside help.\n\nAfter strenuous efforts yield nothing, a vagrant ex-serviceman, John Waldron (Arthur Kennedy), is apprehended and identified in a lineup. He is interrogated for two days by police until, deprived of sleep, he confesses. The evidence seems solid, and a gun in his possession is believed to be the gun that was used in the shooting. \n\nHarvey, however, is not convinced. He questions Waldron, investigates the evidence and the witnesses. Harvey then risks his reputation and incurs the wrath of the police and the public in proposing that the defendant is innocent, while he and his wife (Jane Wyatt) are also being threatened by a businessman named Harris (Ed Begley). In court, even though he is the prosecutor, Harvey lays out the flaws in the case before the judge, and indicates he intends to dismiss the charges. The judge suspects Harvey's motives; Harvey's relationship with Chief Robinson is strained; and a mob unsuccessfully attempts to impose their own justice on Waldron.\n\nA sub-plot involving Paul Harris and a property under consideration for sale to the city—at a price Harris desperately needs to keep himself afloat—also has a prominent place in the film. Harris tries to blackmail Harvey by threatening to destroy his wife, a planning committee member, unless he supports the sale and sits idle, allowing Waldron to be convicted. \n\nAt a preliminary hearing, Harvey once again presents evidence that would lead to Waldron's exoneration. When a reporter gets wind of the double-dealing and threatens Harris with exposure, Harris commits suicide in the courtroom.\n\nThe film ends with a narration that the murder was never solved, and the real Henry Harvey was Homer Cummings who rose to the position of U.S. Attorney General.\n\n\nThe film is based on an actual murder case in Bridgeport, Connecticut in 1924. While walking near the Lyric Theatre in downtown Bridgeport, the Rev. Hubert Dahme (\"Father George Lambert\" in the film) was fatally shot behind the left ear by a gun fired at close range. Those in the theatre were so shocked that no one thought to call for an ambulance until 10 minutes had passed. Two hours later, the priest was pronounced dead at St. Vincent's Hospital in Bridgeport. A vagrant and discharged soldier, Harold Israel, was indicted for the murder. Israel confessed to the crime, and a .32 revolver was found in his possession that police believe was used in the murder. Fairfield County, Connecticut state's attorney Homer Cummings conducted a thorough investigation and found Israel innocent of the crime. Cummings (named \"Henry Harvey\" in the film) later became Attorney General of the United States under Franklin D. Roosevelt. The \"Morning Record\" was the name used in the film for the \"Bridgeport Post\" (now the \"Connecticut Post\").\n\nAlmost all of the film was shot in Stamford, Connecticut, except for the courtroom scene shot in White Plains, New York.\n\nStamford locations:\n\nThe movie premiered at the Palace Theatre in Stamford on March 5, 1947, with Kazan and Andrews in attendance. (Kazan later filmed \"Gentleman's Agreement\" which takes place in Darien, Connecticut, adjacent to Stamford, and which also included the actress Jane Wyatt.)\n\nWhen first released film critic Bosley Crowther discussed the filmmaking, writing the \"...style of presentation has resulted in a drama of rare clarity and punch.\"\n\nThe staff at \"Variety\" gave the film a positive review and wrote, \"\"Boomerang!\" is gripping, real-life melodrama, told in semi-documentary style. Lensing was done on location at Stamford, Conn, the locale adding to realism. Based on a still unsolved murder case in Bridgeport, Conn, plot is backed up with strong cast...All the leads have the stamp of authenticities. The dialog and situations further the factual technique. Lee J. Cobb shows up strongly as chief detective, harassed by press and politicians alike while trying to carry out his duties. Arthur Kennedy is great as the law's suspect.\"\n\nWins\n\nNominations\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n\"Boomerang!\" was dramatized as a half-hour radio play on the November 10, 1947 broadcast of \"The Screen Guild Theater\" with Dana Andrews and Jane Wyatt, on the January 14, 1949 broadcast of the Ford Theatre with Dana Andrews and lastly, on \"Hollywood Sound Stage\" with Tyrone Power and Jane Wyatt on February 28, 1952.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28516702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28516702", "title": "Card not present transaction", "text": "Card not present transaction\n\nA card not present transaction (CNP, MO/TO, Mail Order / Telephone Order, MOTOEC) is a payment card transaction made where the cardholder does not or cannot physically present the card for a merchant's visual examination at the time that an order is given and payment effected. It is most commonly used for payments made over Internet, but also mail-order transactions by mail or fax, or over the telephone.\n\nCard not present transactions are a major route for credit card fraud, because it is difficult for a merchant to verify that the actual cardholder is indeed authorizing a purchase.\n\nIf a fraudulent CNP transaction is reported, the acquiring bank hosting the merchant account that received the money from the fraudulent transaction must make restitution to the cardholder - this is called a chargeback. This is opposed to a card present transaction, when the issuer of the card is liable for restitution. Because of the greater risk, some card issuers charge a greater transaction fee to merchants who routinely handle card not present transactions.\n\nThe card security code (commonly CVV2) system has been set up to reduce the incidence of credit card fraud arising from CNP.\n\nIf a card is not physically present when a customer makes a purchase, the merchant must rely on the cardholder, or someone purporting to be so, presenting card information indirectly, whether by mail, telephone or over the Internet.\n\nShipping companies may guarantee delivery of goods to a location, but they are normally not required to check identification and they are usually not involved in processing payments for the merchandise. A common preventive measure for merchants is to allow shipment only to an address approved by the cardholder, and merchant banking systems offer simple methods of verifying this information. Before this and similar countermeasures were introduced, mail order carding was rampant as early as 1992. A \"carder\" would obtain the credit card information for a local resident and then intercept delivery of the illegitimately purchased merchandise at the shipping address, often by staking out the porch of the residence.\n\nSmall transactions generally undergo less scrutiny, and are less likely to be investigated by either the card issuer or the merchant. CNP merchants must take extra precaution against fraud exposure and associated losses, and they pay higher rates for the privilege of accepting cards. Fraudsters bet on the fact that many fraud prevention features are not used for small transactions.\n\nMerchant associations have developed some prevention measures, such as single-use card numbers, but these have not met with much success. Customers expect to be able to use their credit card without any hassles, and have little incentive to pursue additional security due to laws limiting customer liability in the event of fraud. Merchants can implement these prevention measures but risk losing business if the customer chooses not to use the measures.\n\nThe United States Federal Trade Commission uncovered an operation running from 2006 to 2010 that netted more than $10 million in fraudulent charges on credit and debit cards. The perpetrators used more than 100 merchant accounts that they had created to do the billing.\n\nEach merchant account was attached to an Employer Identification Number belonging to a real merchant with a similar-sounding name.\n\nEach merchant account was tied to an 800-number from CallMe800. Each account was also tied to a website they had created. They also rented physical addresses from companies which rent virtual offices, such as formerly Regus, for each merchant account. These virtual office companies, which did not know of and were otherwise not involved in the scam, would then forward any mail received at the virtual office to Earth Class Mail, a digital mailroom service that scanned mail from the physical address of the merchant account and forwarded it as a PDF to email accounts that the scammers had established. The scammers also ensured that when they checked their online merchant accounts, that they used an IP address located near the billing address so as not to arouse suspicion.\n\nA charge of $9 was processed on about one million credit cards over the four-year period. Each card was billed a single time. Credit card companies only investigate if the charge is more than $10 because it costs about that much to run an investigation. Then the money was moved to bank accounts in Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, Bulgaria, Cyprus, and Kyrgyzstan where the money could not be traced or recovered. The perpetrators experimented with a 20-cent charge and that generated more suspicion than the $9 charge. Only about 10 percent of the fraudulent charges were ever reported or contested by the card owner that was billed.\n"}
{"id": "2720098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2720098", "title": "Casus foederis", "text": "Casus foederis\n\nCasus foederis (or casus fœderis) is derived from the Latin for \"case for the alliance\". In diplomatic terms, it describes a situation in which the terms of an alliance come into play, such as one nation being attacked by another.\n\nIn the War of the Pacific, Bolivia invoked \"casus foederis\" to bring Peru into the war after Chile reinvaded Bolivia's coast. In 1879 Chilean armed forces occupied the port city of Antofagasta, after a Bolivian threat to confiscate the Chilean Antofagasta Nitrate Company's property. Peru attempted to mediate, but when Bolivia announced that a state of war existed, the situation deteriorated. Bolivia called on Peru to activate their secret mutual defense pact, whereas Chile demanded that Peru immediately declare its neutrality. On April 5, Chile declared war on both nations. The following day, Peru responded by acknowledging the casus foederis.\n\nIn World War I, the treaties between Italy and Austria-Hungary, and Romania, which purported to require Italy and Romania to come to Austria's aid if Austria was attacked by another nation, were ignored by both Italy or Romania because, as Winston Churchill wrote, \"the casus fœderis had not arisen\" since the attacks on Austria had not been \"unprovoked.\"\n\nArticle 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty governs mutual defense in the event of an attack on a member nation. It has been invoked only once: on September 12, 2001, in response to the September 11 attacks on the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "47871352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47871352", "title": "Centre for Cybersecurity &amp; Cybercrime Investigation", "text": "Centre for Cybersecurity &amp; Cybercrime Investigation\n\nThe University College Dublin Centre for Cybersecurity & Cybercrime Investigation (UCD CCI) is a centre for research and education in cybersecurity, cybercrime and digital forensic science in Dublin, Ireland.\n\nThe UCD Centre for Cybersecurity & Cybercrime Investigation was established in the early 2000s, and has developed collaborative relationships with law enforcement and industry from across the world. The Centre for Cybersecurity & Cybercrime Investigation is widely regarded as Europe's leading centre for research and education in cybersecurity, cybercrime and digital forensics. UCD CCI trains specialist officers from the Irish national police service, An Garda Síochána, Irish military personnel from the Defence Forces, as well as international law enforcement agencies Interpol and Europol, and authorities from over 40 countries. The CCI also runs educational qualifications and training for the industry sector and multinational corporations.\n\nThere is a Memorandum of Understanding between the Centre for Cybersecurity & Cybercrime Investigation at UCD and the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) at the DCCAE, the Irish government's computer emergency response team.\n\nUCD CCI has a network of formal relationships with the Garda Síochána, Irish Defence Forces, INTERPOL, Europol, Visa Inc., the Irish Banking Federation, as well as collaborations with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), Microsoft, Citibank and eBay.\n\nThe Director of the UCD Centre for Cybersecurity and Cybercrime Investigation is Professor Joe Carthy BSc., PhD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5277753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5277753", "title": "Chairing of the Bard", "text": "Chairing of the Bard\n\nThe Chairing of the Bard () is one of the most important events in the Welsh eisteddfod tradition. The most famous chairing ceremony takes place at the National Eisteddfod of Wales, and is always on the Friday afternoon of Eisteddfod week. Winners are referred to as \"Y Prifardd\" (literally \"The Chief Bard\"). The custom of chairing the bard is, however, much older than the modern eisteddfod ceremony, and is known to have taken place as early as 1176.\n\nA new bardic chair is specially designed and made for each eisteddfod and is awarded to the winning entrant in the competition for the \"awdl\", poetry written in a strict metre form known as cynghanedd. It is possible for the chair to be withheld, if the standard of entries is not considered high enough by the judges. This was the case in 1889, when a chair made for a minor eisteddfod at Bagillt, in Flintshire, was not awarded. The chair in question made news in 2006, when it was returned to Wales after being acquired by a local Welsh society in Canada. This happened most recently in 2013 at the Eisteddfod in Denbighshire, Gwynedd.\n\nThe National Eisteddfod ceremony is presided over by the Archdruid, who reads the judges' comments before announcing the identity of the bard, using only the nom de plume that the winner has used to submit the work. Up to this point, no one knows the true identity of the bard, who is asked to stand and is then escorted to the stage. Local children perform a dance to honour the new bard.\n\nIn 1917, Hedd Wyn (Ellis Humphrey Evans) was awarded the Chair for his ode \"Yr Arwr\" (\"The Hero\"). On 6 September 1917, when the ceremony of Chairing of the Bard took place at the National Eisteddfod, held at Birkenhead Park, England, the adjudicators announced that the winning entry had been submitted under the pseudonym \"Fleur de Lys\". After the trumpets had summoned the winner three times to stand forth from the audience, Archdruid Dyfed announced that he had been killed in action six weeks earlier. The winner's chair was then draped in a black sheet, and was thus delivered to the parents of Hedd Wyn. That year's eisteddfod is now referred to in the Welsh language as \"Eisteddfod y Gadair Ddu\" (\"The Eisteddfod of the Black Chair\").\n\nThe chair from that ceremony, which was made by a Belgian carpenter, Eugeen Vanfleteren (1880–1950), who had fled to Britain when Belgium was invaded and had settled in Birkenhead, is on display at Yr Ysgwrn, the poet's former home.\n\nWinning the \"double\" of bardic chair and crown at the same eisteddfod is a feat that has only been performed a handful of times in the history of the eisteddfod. Alan Llwyd and Donald Evans have each performed the double twice.\n\nThe first woman to win the Chair at the National Eisteddfod was Mererid Hopwood in 2001; she went on to win the crown at a later eisteddfod.\n"}
{"id": "26951686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26951686", "title": "Common law offence", "text": "Common law offence\n\nCommon law offences are crimes under English criminal law and the related criminal law of other Commonwealth countries. They are offences under the common law, developed entirely by the law courts, and therefore have no specific bases in statute.\n\nUnder the criminal law of Australia the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) abolished all common law offences at the federal level. The Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory, Queensland, Tasmania and Western Australia have also abolished common law offences, but they still apply in New South Wales, South Australia and Victoria. Although some common law offences still exist in New South Wales, many common law offences- for example nightwalking, riot, rout, affray, keeping of bawdy houses, champerty and maintainence, eavesdropping and being a common scold- have been abolished in that State.\n\nIn Canada the consolidation of criminal law in the Criminal Code, enacted in 1953, involved the abolition of all common law offences except contempt of court (preserved by section 9 of the Code).\n\nIn England and Wales, the Law Commission's programme of codification of the criminal law included the aim of abolishing all the remaining common law offences and replacing them, where appropriate, with offences precisely defined by statute. Common law offences were seen as unacceptably vague and open to development by the courts in ways that might offend the principle of certainty. However, neither the Law Commission nor the UK Parliament have completed the necessary revisions of the law, so common law offences still exist. In England and Wales common law offences are punishable by unlimited fines and unlimited imprisonment.\n\nExtant common law offences are listed at , and those that have been abolished or redefined as statutory offences are listed at .\n\nThis list includes offences that have been abolished or codified in one or more or all jurisdictions:\n\n\nSee also criminal libel\n\n\nSee also Uniform Code of Military Justice for codification of what had been common law crimes.\n\nIn New Zealand all common law offences were abolished under the Crimes Act 1961, with the exception of contempt of court and of offences tried by courts martial.\n\nThe notion that common law offenses could be enforced in federal courts was found to be unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"United States v. Hudson and Goodwin\", 11 U.S. 32 (1812). Some have argued that they are inconsistent with the prohibition of ex post facto laws.\n\nAt the state level, the situation varies. Some states, such as New Jersey, have abolished common law crimes (see \"State v. Palendrano\"), while others have chosen to continue to recognize them. In some states, the elements of many crimes are defined mostly or entirely by common law, i.e., by prior judicial decisions. For instance, Michigan's penal code does not define the crime of murder: while the penalties for murder are laid out in statute, the actual elements of murder, and their meaning, is entirely set out in case law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26250078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26250078", "title": "Concerns and controversies at the 2010 Winter Olympics", "text": "Concerns and controversies at the 2010 Winter Olympics\n\nA number of concerns and controversies at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, surfaced before and during the Games, and which received media coverage.\n\nHours before the opening ceremony, Nodar Kumaritashvili of Georgia was killed during a training run for the luge after he was thrown from his sled and struck a steel pillar at high speed, near the end of the course. The International Luge Federation called an emergency meeting after the accident, and all other training runs were cancelled for the day.\n\nVancouver Olympics Organizing Committee (VANOC) was criticized after members of the media assumed that VANOC was the governing body that conducted a prompt 12-hour investigation into the luger's death, which put the blame on the luger. In fact, it was the International Luge Federation (ILF) which conducted the investigation. The ILF has stated that it will investigate the crash and issue a report around the end of March 2010.\n\nFurthermore, the Whistler Sliding Centre, which has recorded some of the fastest speeds in luge history, was the site of several non-fatal accidents during training runs leading up to the start of the games. For more than a year prior to the Olympics, luge competitors had complained that the track was too fast and the turns were too dangerous. Athletes had nicknamed turn 13 the \"50-50\" turn for their chances of getting through it without crashing. Kumaritashvili was killed on turn 16, the last turn of the course.\n\nAs a result, the height of the wall Kumaritashvili surmounted was increased, with added wooden panels and padding. Officials also ordered changes to the layout of the final turn of the Whistler luge track, making it slower and safer, and moved the men's and women's luge starts down the track.\n\nKumaritashvili's teammate, Levan Gureshidze, did not race. He was on the official start list for the first run but withdrew, telling other racers he could not go on. He instead flew back to Georgia to mourn the loss of his fallen teammate.\n\nAfter the starting gates were changed, competitors have complained that the junior starting position enters the main track with a turn that is too tight, causing sledders problems at the beginning of their runs. Some have also complained that slowing the course has decreased the challenge and forced them to adjust their strategy.\n\nEleven months before the death of Kumaritashvili, VANOC chief executive officer John Furlong started to be concerned that an athlete could get \"badly injured or even worse\" on the luge track. Josef Fendt, who is the President of the International Luge Federation, stated in a letter to the designer of the luge track that luge track was recording \"historic sled speeds\" that the speeds were nearly 20 kilometres an hour faster than the track designer had anticipated. John Furlong received a copy of the letter and asked for the situation to be looked at by the \"legal guys\". Svein Romstad, general secretary of the International Luge Federation, stated that the International Luge Federation \"would have sought major changes to the Whistler track if it had known ahead of time that speeds would be so much higher than calculated.\" A memo dated January 30, 2006 stated that, in March 2005, the International Luge Federation wanted major changes to six curves on the luge track including curves 15 and 16, where Kumaritashvili's problem began. Kumaritashvili's father became angry after reports showed that VANOC didn't act on their own concerns about the luge track's safety. The family of Kumaritashvili received an insurance payout worth $150,000 from the VANOC.\n\nVANOC broke some rules in regards to the luging and bobsleigh track. International Luge Federation states that \"the length for a luge track must not exceed .\" G-force was critical in the accident that killed Kumaritashvili. The rules of the International Bobsleigh and Tobogganing Federation states that a g-force of 5 is the limit for the track. A g-force of 5.02 is possible for male lugers on the track in Whistler. The rules of the International Bobsleigh and Tobogganing Federation also states that \"to prevent the deterioration of the ice during warm, sunny periods, the finish straight should be shaded or covered.\" Part of what was to be considered in the shading of the finish straight was the safety of the athlete. The final straight was where the accident took place. Since the investigation and currently, sliders no longer start at the upper start area, they start downhill at the lower start: C1.\n\nThe President of Georgia, Mikheil Saakashvili, thanked the hosts for the way that they handled Kumaritashvili's death which included a moment of silence and a tribute at the opening ceremony.\n\nGiven Kumaritshvili's death on the 12th, other safety issues on speed for other events were raised at these games, most notably at the Sliding Centre. Another noted injury took place in the women's downhill. The course was labelled as extremely difficult for skiers and most training runs were cancelled due to weather conditions. This resulted in several accidents during the competition event where Sweden's Anja Pärson was badly bruised following a jump prior to the finish line of the event on February 17.\n\nIn cross-country skiing, Slovenian skier Petra Majdič was severely injured after a fall during a practice run on the sprint track. The fall led to Majdič sliding off the course and falling down a rocky slope. Despite having broken ribs and a collapsed lung, Majdič completed the women's sprint event and took the bronze medal. Slovenia filed a protest with the IOC about the safety of the course, but it was dismissed.\n\nDozens were injured and sent to hospital when a barricade erected at LiveCity Yaletown collapsed. Canadian rock band Alexisonfire played a free concert at LiveCity Yaletown on Tuesday, February 16. Ten seconds into the band's first song, the crowd of hundreds surged forward, which caused a section of the barricade to collapse, sending dozens to the ground. The band stopped playing immediately, and asked the crowd to step back. While Vancouver Police and on-site medical team controlled the situation, the crowd was informed that the show was cancelled, and they dispersed quickly and co-operatively.\n\nReports indicate at least 20 people were injured with 10 being taken to hospital. On February 17 the band issued the following statement: \"We are sincerely sorry that people were injured. We want to thank the security team, paramedics and police for their quick reaction. We especially want to thank our fans for cooperating and not making a bad situation worse.\" A representative for LiveCity Vancouver added \"When the incident occurred, everyone acted quickly, professionally, and took appropriate action. The security and on-site emergency medical response teams provided immediate assistance and care, the band kept people calm, and the crowd dispersed safely.\"\n\nThe opening ceremony was criticized for a perceived lack of appropriate representation of French-speaking Canadians, in spite of Canada's status as a bilingual country. One who raised objections was the Secretary General of La Francophonie, Abdou Diouf. Quebec Premier Jean Charest said the ceremony failed to respect and reflect the Francophone community in Canada. In an interview with CBC, the Minister of Canadian Heritage, James Moore, was \"disappointed\" by the low representation of French during the ceremony. Canadian Member of Parliament Richard Nadeau of the Bloc Québécois sees rather a lack of political will to promote Canadian bilingualism. Among the 25,000 volunteers, only 15% of them speak French. The Commissioner of the Official Languages, Graham Fraser, was very disappointed by the lack of presence of French. He also said, \"I had the impression of watching a show designed and produced in English with a French song. Even l\"'Hymne du Nord\" from the poet François-Xavier Garneau has been translated into English to be read by the actor Donald Sutherland\".\n\nVANOC, however, defended the case and said that they had made \"a very deliberate focus and effort to ensure a strong celebration of Quebec culture and language.\" They also said that there was a significant amount of French in the opening ceremony. David Atkins, the artistic director of the opening ceremonies, said that the ceremonies did celebrate francophone Canada. Some examples of the French include the speeches, the Olympic Hymn, and the officials' oath. John Furlong, VANOC CEO, IOC President Jacques Rogge, and Governor General Michaëlle Jean all addressed the crowd in English and French. Measha Brueggergosman performed the English version of the Olympic Hymn, but Dave Pierce, the music director for the games, had his associate, Donovan Seidle, compose and arrange it to have some of the stanzas performed in French. Michel Verrault, a speed-skating official, took the officials' oath in French.\n\nIn his official report on the 2010 Winter Olympics opening ceremony, Graham Fraser identified two causes for the lack of french in it. The first was lack of understanding. The commissioner said that \"it was apparent that, in several areas, the official language requirements in the multi-party agreement signed by the organizing committee and Canadian Heritage were rather vague and unclear\". He also stated the secrecy traditionally given to the opening ceremony prevented the commissioner from making sure that Canada's linguistic duality was well-showcased in the show. In order to prevent such mistake for future major events held in Canada, such as the 2015 Panamerican Games, \"official language requirements must be specific and clear to ensure that organizing committees grasp the importance of linguistic duality, understand their official languages obligations and plan adequately.\" In early 2011, the Office of the Commissioner of Official Languages published guide in early 2011 based on the lessons learned at the Vancouver Games to help federal institutions and organizing committees of future large-scale sporting events to better understand, plan, implement, and monitor their activities toward the full respect and inclusion of English and French.\n\nIn February 2011, one year following the Vancouver games, Furlong discussed the language controversy in the Olympics in his book \"Patriot Hearts: Inside the Olympics that Changed a Country\". Furlong said he had received praise from Fraser before the opening ceremony because of the large amount of bilinguals in his staff. He added that he had attempted to have the Quebec Anthem \"Mon Pays\" sang at the ceremony as well, but were shot down by the song's author. Furlong defended his refusal to apologise for the perceived lack of french in the opening ceremony. He alleged that, when discussing the place of French at the Olympics, \"Mr. Fraser pointed fingers from a distance but rarely pitched in with ideas or support.\" Fraser answered these criticism, saying that his office had given him precise indications and ideas to promote linguistic duality during the games, which were implemented. He said that, overall, the services in the Games were provided in both official languages, and that the absence of french was mostly in the cultural program, and this was the only part he took issue with. Following the release of Furlong's book on the 2010 Games, La Presse editor André Pratte wrote a severe opinion piece on the lack of French in the opening ceremony, noting that \"just trying is not good enough.\"\n\nThere have been concerns that the H1N1 virus could spread among spectators, staff and athletes during the games. Organizers were stockpiling vaccine and placed a high priority on vaccinating all volunteers. While each country was responsible for the vaccination of its own athletic delegation, Vancouver health officials and the International Olympic Committee strongly recommended all athletes, spectators and other visitors be vaccinated. Some Olympic Committees required their delegations to be vaccinated against the H1N1 flu. In light of concerns, local British Columbia health officials vaccinated participants and spectators for free during the duration of the games.\n\nThe IOC voted in 2006 not to include women's ski jumping in the 2010 Games on the grounds that the sport was not yet developed enough and did not meet basic criteria for inclusion. The members of the Canadian Women Ski Jumping Team filed a grievance with the Canadian Human Rights Board citing gender discrimination.\n\nAccording to lobby group Women's Ski Jumping USA, a group composed of \"some of the top women ski jumpers\", filed a Statement of Claim with the Supreme Court of British Columbia suing the Vancouver Olympic Organizing Committee for excluding women ski jumpers from the Vancouver games claiming that their rights were violated according to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. However, on June 10, 2009, the Supreme Court ruled against the group, stating that though the women were being discriminated against, the issue is an International Olympic Committee responsibility, and thus is not governed by the Charter, and finally, the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms did not apply to VANOC, with the term, \"In other words, VANOC is not under a duty to distribute equally what it has no power to provide.\"\n\nThe athletes' village located at Southeast False Creek was originally planned to be a model sustainable community, with state-of-the-art energy efficiency provisions, and a mix of market and social housing, at one third market, one third social housing and one third subsidized middle income housing. The city of Vancouver would break even through the sale of market housing. However, a new city council in 2005 dropped the provisions for subsidized middle income housing and then sold the lands to a private developer for C$193 million. Further controversy erupted when the private developer and its associated investment company backed out of the project, forcing the city of Vancouver to bear the liability, which resulted in the resignation of a city planner in protest and saw the city seek special legislation making changes to its charter to allow it to borrow money to finance completion of the project.\n\nLeading up to the Olympics, the International Olympic Committee had ordered the removal of a two-story high Australian Boxing Kangaroo flag which had been draped over a balcony in the athletes' village. The IOC ordered the flag to be taken down because they believed the image to be too commercial as it is a registered trademark (albeit of the Australian Olympic Committee). The order for removal was later withdrawn after IOC president Jacques Rogge met with AOC president John Coates.\n\nOn August 22, 2008, \"The Globe and Mail\" reported that the government of Prime Minister Stephen Harper mandated that the content of the opening ceremonies reflect its agenda as a condition of its contribution of C$20 million to fund the event. This was widely criticized as government interference with the arts and exercising ideological control. However, VANOC vice-president of communications Renée Smith-Valade said the government was not bringing politics into the 2010 games and did not have veto power over any part of the Olympic ceremonies.\n\nA mentally ill man from British Columbia was able to use a homemade all-access pass at the opening ceremonies to clear several layers of security at BC Place Stadium and get close to U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, who authorities say the man had an infatuation with. Before he could reach Biden, however, he was stopped by two plainclothes Mounties, who escorted him away. The man will not face charges, but has been committed to a psychiatric facility. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said it has not implemented any change in security at the Olympics following the breach.\n\nVANOC used lines from the Canadian national anthem to serve as the official slogans for the games (\"with glowing hearts\" in English and \"des plus brilliants exploits\" in French) and trademarked their use. However, VANOC stated it would only challenge usage of the lines in the case of ambush marketing, where an attempt is made to \"create a specific, unauthorized commercial association with the 2010 Winter Games\". The anthem itself is in the public domain. \n\nVANOC also began protecting its brand as contractually obligated by the International Olympic Committee and its marketing partners, filing lawsuits against residents attempting to register domain names related to the games, and preventing Vancouver author Kari-Lynn Winters from portraying the Olympics in a work of fiction. The VANOC also sued local businesses for using \"olympic\" in their names, including already-existent and long-established businesses. The House of Commons also passed laws granting protection for various terms surrounding the games.\n\nIn June 2009, the Olympics Resistance Network accused the Vancouver 2010 Integrated Security Unit's (VISU) Joint Intelligence Group of \"abusive and unlawful conduct\" after allegedly harassing VANOC opposition activists. Concerns over policing methods have also been raised because of the head of Olympic security, RCMP Asst. Commissioner Gary Russell \"Bud\" Mercer, was part of the RCMP forces that blew up a truck in course of the Gustafsen Lake Standoff. Mercer was also among the RCMP who pepper-sprayed protests at the 1997 APEC conference at UBC, personally spraying a CBC cameraman and his camera, and also was part of the \"War in the Woods\" against tree-sit protesters in the Elaho Valley.\n\nIn October 2009, the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia through the \"Miscellaneous Statutes Amendment Act, 2009\", gave host municipalities (Richmond, Vancouver and Whistler) the power to enter residences and other private property to seize signs that are deemed to be \"anti-Olympic\", between February 1 and March 31, 2010. Another amendment changed the Vancouver Charter to allow for fines of up to $10,000 and imprisonment for up to 6 months for sign and bylaw violations.\n\nPrivacy rights advocates, including Chantal Bernier, assistant federal privacy commissioner, are concerned about the implementation of 900 security cameras placed by the RCMP Olympic Integrated Security Unit plus another 100 security cameras placed by the city of Vancouver in the Downtown area.\n\nCreditors holding $1.4 billion in debt on Intrawest, the owners of the Whistler Blackcomb Resort, were reported on January 20, 2010, as being ready to foreclose on the resort as part of the creditor, investment bank Lehman Brothers, attempting to recover debts owed it by major creditors, including Fortress Investments, the owner of Intrawest and Whistler Blackcomb since 2006. Despite guarantees from VANOC and the Canadian government of $50 million to keep Intrawest afloat during the Games, there were doubts that the Canadian government would be forthcoming. A private source connected to Wesley Edens, owner of Fortress Investments, has said that Edens may exercise his right in that circumstance to prevent the Games from happening at the resort. VANOC sources say this is unlikely to happen since the creditors would have no reason to diminish the value of the resort that would be enhanced by hosting a prestige event, and also because of the short time-frame of the impending Games relative to the length of the legal proceedings of any auction of Fortress' assets. Fortress is also the company which backed out of the original funding arrangements for the Athletes' Village in Vancouver, and the re-financing of that project by emergency legislation and the involvement of Fortress' subsidiary, Millennium.\n\nThe men's 500 metres speed skating event was delayed for over an hour at the Richmond Olympic Oval when both ice resurfacers experienced mechanical failures and a third ice machine was unable to resurface the ice properly. At least one skater withdrew from the race because of the delay and other racers stated that the delay hurt their race times.\n\nIce resurfacers at the games were supplied by Olympia, an official sponsor of the games. The Olympia Celletwi model is the first pollution-free, nickel-cadmium, battery-powered ice resurfacer and was selected as a part of the games \"green\" efforts. Following the failures, a traditional natural gas powered resurfacer built by Zamboni was brought in from Calgary. Organizers stated safety concerns for the decision.\n\nAbout 28,000 tickets for spectator places along the slopes of a number of outside events were recalled for safety reasons; ticket holders were reimbursed but had difficulty or were not able to gain access to tickets at comparable prices to these events. Visitors were also upset by a twenty dollar charge to attend ceremonies to honor medal-winning athletes. Traditionally, these ceremonies had been free of charge. Organizers also expressed concern about blocks of VIP tickets going unused leaving conspicuous empty seats at events.\n\nIn May 2010, VANOC announced that 200 people had to be reimbursed due to alleged fraudulent ticket purchases by a group of Latvians in the province who used compromised credit card information. The cost to VANOC was estimated at $2 million.\n\nObservers and participants reported that several starter errors occurred during the February 16 men's biathlon pursuit. Competitors Jeremy Teela and Jean-Philippe Leguellec were started too early, before racers who were seeded higher than them. Teela stated that the early start threw-off his strategy, contributing to his missing two targets in his first two shooting range stops. Teela said, \"We have a couple more races this week. Hopefully the organizers figure this problem out and they make the races fair.\"\n\nStarter confusion was also present during the women's pursuit earlier that day. This time both Liudmila Kalinchik and Anna Carin Olofsson-Zidek were held back and had to start several seconds too late. U.S. coach Per Nilsson stated that he had never seen an Olympic biathlon as poorly managed as the February 16 women's race.\n\nInternational Biathlon Union (IBU) officials were directing the starts. The incorrect starts were attributed to a Swiss official at the women's start and a Czech official at the men's start. Norbert Baier, technical delegate for the International Biathlon Union, called it the worst day of his career and took full responsibility, stating that the mistakes were their fault. He also noted that similar incidents have previously occurred on the World Cup circuit in Europe. Notably, at last year's World Championships in Pyeongchang, South Korea, several competitors were sent out the wrong way on the first lap.\n\nThe opening ceremony was stalled while organizers recovered from mechanical problems which prevented the pillars forming the cauldron for the torch lighting from completely rising out of the stadium floor as planned. However this was soon fixed as seen in the Closing Ceremony, where they made a joke out of it. An Engineer Mime climbed out of the stage as if he had just fixed it and he pretended to pull it up. Speed skater Catriona Le May Doan, who was supposed to have lit the 4th pillar, came out from the floor to finally get the chance to light it.\n\nAfter problems with malfunctioning buses and lost drivers delayed spectators trying to go to or return from Olympic venues, the games organizers called in an additional 100 buses and drivers. The problematic buses and drivers were contracted from Gameday Management, an American company which had also serviced the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. Representatives of BC bus drivers and companies criticized VANOC for using Gameday and its American drivers instead of local operators, contending that drivers from states such as Texas were not experienced with mountain driving and winter road conditions.\n\nOwn the Podium - 2010, or \"À nous le podium en 2010!\" in French, is a Canadian sport technical program launched in January 2005 to prepare Canada to become the top winter sporting nation in the world by the 2010 Winter Olympics. The main aspect of the scheme which has caused controversy is the priority of Canadian competitors in conducting practice runs of events, particularly at the Whistler Slide Centre, over competitors from other countries. A newspaper in the United Kingdom blamed the program for the death of Nodar Kumaritashvili, a luge athlete from Georgia who died on the opening day of the 2010 Winter Olympic Games. Several of the country's former Olympians have criticized the program as unsportsmanlike, while others note that program organizers seem oblivious to principles of good sportsmanship enshrined by the founder of the modern Olympics, Pierre de Coubertin. It has been typical in past Olympics for the host nation to allow foreign athletes to train on the courses for a certain amount of time (e.g. the USA allowed Canadian athletes to train in Salt Lake in 2002). The amount of time provided to foreign athletes for training in fact met if not exceeded the requirements of each sporting federation. An International Luge Federation official stated that more pre-Games training time had been secured than at any previous Olympic Games Canadian officials also pointed out instances at the 2002 and 2006 Olympic Games where the host Organizing Committee restricted access to its own venues; in particular among these, luge athlete Jeff Christie stated that foreign athletes were given less training time than required at the 2006 Turin Olympics.\n\nSome time after winning their gold medal in the finals of the women's hockey tournament, a 2-0 victory over the United States on February 25, 2010, several members of the Canadian women's hockey team celebrated on the stadium ice while drinking beer and champagne, and smoking cigars. Unbeknownst to the players they were photographed and their celebration was criticized in the media, the reason being that smoking and drinking in public was unbecoming of Olympic athletes, especially while in uniform and in their playing venue. Hockey Canada issued an apology, although other members of the Olympic community dismissed concerns over the event. The IOC considered looking into the incident. Canadian hockey captain Hayley Wickenheiser said a double standard was being applied, and that a male athlete would not have been judged so harshly, as was the case with skeleton gold medalist Jon Montgomery and his post race beer consumption.\n\nOpposition to the 2010 Olympic Games was expressed by various activists, politicians and communities.\n\nThere is opposition to the Olympics amongst some indigenous people and their supporters. Although the Lil'wat branch of the St'at'imc Nation is a co-host of the games, a splinter group from the Seton band known as the St'at'imc of Sutikalh, who have also opposed the Cayoosh Ski Resort, fear the Olympics are bringing unwanted tourism and real estate sales to their territory. On another front, local aboriginal people as well as Canadian Inuit expressed concern over the choice of an inukshuk as the symbol of the Games, with some Inuit leaders such as former Nunavut Commissioner Peter Irniq stating that the inukshuk is a culturally important symbol to them. He said that the \"Inuit never build inuksuit with head, legs and arms. I have seen inuksuit build [sic] more recently, 100 years maybe by non-Inuit in Nunavut, with head, legs and arms. These are not called inuksuit. These are called inunguat, imitation of man.\" Local aboriginal groups also expressed annoyance that the design did not reflect the Coast Salish and Interior Salish native culture from the region the Games are being held in, but rather that of the Inuit, who are indigenous to the Arctic far from Vancouver. One chief, Stewart Phillip, President of the Union of British Columbia Indian Chiefs, also said that the design lacked dignity, comparing it to Pac-Man. Edward John, Grand Chief of the First Nations Summit, said some native leaders were so upset about the issue they were prepared to walk out of the unveiling ceremony. The aboriginal governments of the Squamish, Musqueam, Lil'wat and Tsleil-Waututh (the \"Four Host First Nations\"), on whose traditional territory the games are being held, signed a protocol in 2004 in support of the games.\n\nIn 2006, environmental protests at Eagleridge Bluffs in West Vancouver over the building of a new highway resulted in the arrest of over 20 people, and jail time for two local women, Betty Krawczyk and Harriet Nahanee. Harriett Nahanee, an elderly woman, died shortly after incarceration from medical conditions thought to be exacerbated by her time in jail. According to critics, despite claims of the \"greenest Olympics\" ever, and statements about \"sustainability\", the 2010 Olympics would leave behind environmental damage.\n\nOn Saturday February 13, the first day of the actual Olympic sporting events, windows of The Hudson's Bay Company (The Bay), an Olympic sponsor, were smashed in downtown Vancouver by protestors.\n\nProtesters had also vandalized branches of the Royal Bank of Canada, an Olympic sponsor, in Ottawa, Vancouver and Victoria.\n\nThe documentary film \"Five Ring Circus\" outlined reasons behind the protests. and in Helen Jefferson Lenskyj's books \"Olympic Industry Resistance\" (2007) and \"Inside the Olympic Industry\" (2000). Including concerns about the expense to taxpayers, estimated in 2007 to be CAN$580 million. After the stock market crash of 2008, there have been increasing concerns that Games-related projects would not meet their economic targets. The Olympic Village development, for example, was originally intended to make a profit, but at least one critic estimates it will be millions in debt. Olympic organizers have not commented on this estimate. Also protested was the displacement of low-income residents and criminalization of the poor and homeless through policies designed to make the city appear cleaner.\nCritics also anticipated an increase in human trafficking for the purpose of forced prostitution.\nAs with Vancouver's Expo 86 which led to the displacement of hundreds of residents in the Downtown Eastside area of the city, or Expo 2010 where 18,000 families were displaced from the Shanghai area, the 2010 Olympics had a similar effect of displacing and criminalizing poor communities, while corporate sponsors of the 'games' made billions and billions of dollars of profit at the expense of peoples' lives and homes.\n\n"}
{"id": "30637859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30637859", "title": "Cosplay Mania", "text": "Cosplay Mania\n\nCosplay Mania is an annual cosplay-centered convention usually held in the final quarter of the year in the Philippines. The convention features various events related to cosplay and features rookie and veteran cosplayers, costumers and cosplay enthusiasts. Below are the mainstay activities, some of them unique to the event:\n\n\nCosplay Mania is created and hosted by Cosplay.ph, a Philippine-based cosplay website and organization.\n\nThe first event was held in Megatrade Hall 3 in SM Megamall, Mandaluyong City on October 12, 2008. Its theme was \"Plan... Build... Cosplay!\" which revolved around three main activities: Workshops, Costume Building Contest and the Cosplay competition for individual and group. Notable cosplayer Jin Joson and her group the Tux Team were invited to be part of the workshop tutorials as well as judge for the cosplay competition.\n\nWith the theme \"Bigger and Better\", the event incorporated both Megatrade Hall 2 and 3 and opened on September 13, 2009. Introduced the Cosplay Museum exhibit as well as the Mech Cafe. This event introduced the inclusion of an onstage LED Video wall backdrop to help enhance the catwalk experience of cosplayers joining Project Cosplay as well as giving those competing in the group cosplay category the option to use digital visual effects to augment their performances.\n\nCosplay Mania 2010 marked the year where a few major event changes were made. First was the move to a new location, from SM Megamall in Mandaluyong City, to SMX Convention Center beside SM Mall of Asia in Pasay City. The second is having the event as two days instead of just one, October 2 to 3. The last was the change of their title brand from calendar year 2010 to Roman number X, which became the reoccurring promotional symbol to represent the move to SMX Convention Center as well as the event's theme of \"A Decade of Cosplay\", where the event celebrated 10 years of cosplaying in the Philippines.\n\nThis also introduced the first nationwide cosplay competition called the Cosplay Tournament of Champions (TORCH), where winners of tournament legs from SM Cagayan De Oro, SM Clark, SM Davao, SM Cebu, SM Davao and SM Manila converge for the finals at SMX Convention Center.\n\nThe event also invited International Cosplayer guests Clive Lee and Jesuke of Singapore to be part of the celebration and become part of the judges panel for Project Cosplay and TORCH.\n\nAlso introduced a cosplay-centric activity called Cosplay Checkmate, a variation of Human Chess where participants in costumes play chess pieces in a life-size chess board, but would act out in character in a choreographed fight scene when the pieces interact. This version however has no Knight pieces.\n\nThe event's theme was \"Epic\" due to its major changes in its format. It was still held SMX Convention Center beside SM Mall of Asia in Pasay City on October 1 and 2 but has now occupied 3 function rooms, namely Function Room 3, 4 and 5, making the floor area a total of over 5,200 square meters. The floor plan was changed to a new format, separating into the Stage Area at Function Room 5 where the bands and cosplay activities are held, the Fiesta Hall at Function Room 4 where dealers/sellers are located, and Function Room 3 as an open hall for visitors to socialize. The Stage and Fiesta hall has entrance fees while the open hall is free for all.\n\nThe event held its first ticketing system that involved distribution through SM Ticketing services that made pre-selling of tickets available in all SM Supermalls nationwide. This was in response to the long lines that plagued its past events when ticket sales were sold on the day itself.\n\nThis year's event introduced its first partnership with Anime Festival Asia where the winning pair of Cosplay Mania's Cosplay second Tournament of Champions (TORCH II) will become the official Philippine representatives to join AFA's Regional Cosplay Competition, performing against other cosplay teams from Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Singapore. The Philippine Team, represented by Amado Carl Hernandez (AC) and Zhel, won this year's AFA's Regional Cosplay Competition.\n\nThe event also invited International Cosplayer Guests Pinky Lu Xun of Indonesia, YukiGodbless and JiakiDarkness of Thailand, and returning guest Clive Lee of Singapore, all of whom became judges for the event's TORCH, Project Cosplay and Costume Building Contest.\n\nCosplay Mania also hosted Cosplay Appreciation Day, where cosplayers are invited to register upon entering Function Room 3, in an attempt to set a Guinness World Record of the number of cosplayers attending an event.\n\nOther notable international partnerships that graced the event included Bandai, Gunpla Japan, Crypton Future Media and CosplayGen.\n\nThis year's event is still held at SMX Convention Center beside SM Mall of Asia in Pasay City, but with the dates moved to September 29 and 30, occupying Function Room 3, 4 and 5. The floor plan also retained last year's format, separating into the Stage Area at Function Room 5 and the Dealer Area at Function Room 4, both as paying areas. Function Room 3 is still assigned as a free hall.\n\nThe event will again host the finals of the Cosplay Tournament of Champions (TORCH) where the winning pair will represent the Philippines in Anime Festival Asia's (AFA) Regional Cosplay Competition in Singapore.\n\nThis year's roster of invited International Cosplayer Guests include renowned Japanese cosplayers KANAME☆ and Reika as well as returning Singaporean guest cosplayer Jesuke. A Premium Pass was introduced that would give visitors the opportunity to attend Kaname and Reika's Meet and Greet closed-door activities. The limited sales of the passes is separate from the regular convention ticket sales.\n\nCosplay Mania will again host Cosplay Appreciation Day, where cosplayers are invited to register upon entering Function Room 3, to again attempt to set the Guinness World Record of the number of cosplayers attending an event.\n\nNew activities are being introduced in this year's event: \n\nNotable supporters of the event include the Department of Foreign Affairs (Philippines), The Embassy of Japan in the Philippines, All Nippon Airways, Toei Animation Philippines and SGCafe.\n\nWith the event theme \"Overdrive\", this year's event is still held at SMX Convention Center beside SM Mall of Asia in Pasay City, on October 5 and 6, occupying Function Room 3, 4 and 5. The floor plan also retained last year's format, separating into the Stage Area at Function Room 5 and the Dealer Area at Function Room 4, both as paying areas. Function Room 3 is still assigned as a free hall.\n\nThe event will again host the finals of the Cosplay Tournament of Champions (TORCH) where the winning pair will represent the Philippines in Anime Festival Asia's (AFA) Regional Cosplay Competition in Singapore.\n\nCosplay Mania '13 Guests\n\nThis year marked the event's most number of guests invited, with 10 guests featuring Jesuke, Vic, Starpolaris Reiko and Viospace from Singapore, Pinky, Orochi and Shinji (Endless Illution) from Indonesia, and returning Japanese cosplayers guests KANAME☆ and Reika, with a new guest Goldy Marg, a well-known mecha and armor cosplayer from Japan. All of them were introduced weekly in a series of Guest Reveals presented on Cosplay Mania's Facebook page.\n\nThe Meet and Greet Premium Pass were available to KANAME☆, Reika and Goldy with a limited sales of 100 passes per guest is separate from the regular convention ticket sales.\n\nThis year introduces the application of Cosplay.ph's CRS, or Cosplay Ranking System, where cosplayers who will join the event's contests are required to apply. This system would help designate the beginner and veteran ranking as to improve fairness in Cosplay.ph held competitions.\n\nReturning activities are being introduced again this year: \nNew activities being introduced this year:\n\nThis year's event marked several new changes which coincide with the theme \"Evolution\" and held at SMX Convention Center beside SM Mall of Asia in Pasay City, on October 4 and 5, occupying Function Room 3, 4 and 5.\n\nPrior to the event, two cosplay events were held which promoted Cosplay Mania '14, dubbed \"Road to Cosplay Mania\" and the \"Cosplay Mania 14 Preview Event\". They were held in SM City Clark, Pampanga and SM Southmall in Las Pinas.\n\nThe event will again host the finals of the Cosplay Tournament of Champions (TORCH) where the winning pair will represent the Philippines in Anime Festival Asia's (AFA) Regional Cosplay Competition in Singapore.\n\nNew Logo\n\nCosplay Mania logo is known to incorporate elements that portray the event's varied themes but still retain its usual font and general shape. This year, a new logo was launched that incorporated sleeker, more modern-looking lines but retained the corporate colors of the event.\n\nNew Mascot\n\nCosplay Mania also introduced their new mascot Cosima Karin that would represent the event's fun-loving ambiance and cosplay-centric atmosphere. She is accompanied by DotPeach, the official mascot of Cosplay.ph, the company behind the convention and who had long since represented the event.\n\nCosplay Mania '14 Guests\n\nTen guests were invited, with returning guests featuring Jesuke Jes and Vic Kumiko from Singapore, Pinky Lu Xun from Indonesia, Orochi X from Australia and Japanese cosplayers guests KANAME☆ and Reika. New cosplayer guests to arrive are Inui Tatsumi from Japan and Linda Le (Vampy Bit Me) from the USA, the event's first guest cosplayer invited from the west. All of them were introduced weekly in a series of Guest Reveals presented on Cosplay Mania's Facebook page.\n\nThe Meet and Greet Premium Pass were available to KANAME☆, Reika, Inui Tatsumi and Vampy, now with two sessions available for KANAME☆ and Reika. Inui Tatsumi will be partnered with Orochi X to share one session together, while Vampy's two sessions will be accompanied with Jesuke and Pinky respectively.\n\nCosplay Mania JAM Concert\n\nAs part of the evolution theme, the event introduced JAM (Japanese Anime Music), a two-day concert held at Function Room 5 which starts at 7pm. The concert featured Japanese singer Aya Ikeda, who sang songs from the anime Pretty Cure, and Loverin Tamburin, a band that covers a variety of anime songs but best known for \"Aishitageru\" (愛したげる), the opening song for the anime Makai Senki Disgaea. The concert will also be accompanied by local anime cover band Moonspeak and Ninja Tuna. Japanese cosplayers KANAME☆ and Reika will be having collaborative singing performance with Moonspeak. It should be noted that this would be KANAME☆'s first ever singing performance in a convention.\n\nAya Ikeda also had her own Meet and Greet session prior to the concert, but also held her own handshake and merchandise selling session after her performance on Cosplay Mania JAM Day 2. Loverin Tamburin also initiated their own Meet and Greet but free of charge, giving away free posters for signing as well as the selling of their music CD's.\n\nTicketing System\n\nCosplay Mania improved on their ticketing system by providing more options for con-goers on how they will customize their convention experience by introducing the following ticket tier system:\n\n • Valid for 2-days;\n\nThe Titanium tickets have long been sold out since August of this year. However one ticket will be given away at Cosplay Mania's Early Bird Raffle.\n\nAll tickets are available for purchase at all SM Tickets outlets.\n\nNotable supporters of the event include Japan's Haneda Music Festival, , Doraemon and even the appearance of the official Pikachu mascot which was recently named by Japan as the official mascot for the 2014 Brazil FIFA World Cup.\n\nThis year's Cosplay Mania has increased their floor space to include Function Rooms 2 to 5, and Meeting Rooms 2 to 9, occupying over 7,000 sq/m. The layout has also been reversed, with the Exhibitor Hall occupying Function Rooms 4 and 5, and the stage area occupying 2 and 3. As a result, the Exhibitor Room, dubbed as Hall Ex, has over 200 exhibitor booths ranging from game booths to assorted merchandise. The stage are, dubbed Hall S, was smaller in size than last year, but has enough space in allowing audiences to comfortably enjoy the cosplay competition and the JAM concert. The meeting rooms are still assigned for Meet and Greet activities and merchandise selling.\n\nCosplay Mania Roadshow\n\nMonths prior to Cosplay Mania, Cosplay.ph had intensified their promotion by creating events and partnering with other organizations, both in cosplay and Japanese concerts. Most notable are Cosplay Carnival, NexCon, TORCH series, Meet and Greet Madness and the LISA mini-concert held at SMX Aura.\n\nCosplay Mania Cup\n\nThe Cosplay Mania Roadshow created a series of Individual category cosplay contests in each of their events that would culminate in the final showdown during Cosplay Mania. The winner receives the Championship prize. This is separate from the Cosplay Mania's own Cosplay Solo Showdown, also an individual category cosplay contest.\n\nTournament of Champions (TORCH)\n\nThe activity has been delegated as part of the Cosplay Mania Roadshow event, and finalists from 8 cities have participated at the grand finals at Cosplay Mania. The winner of this year's TORCH was Team Ban x Kai, a team known to have joined TORCH continuously since 2010. They will represent the Philippines at Anime Festival Asia's Regional Cosplay Contest in Singapore.\n\nCosplay Mania '15 Guests\n\nTen guests graced event, with cosplayer celebrities KANAME☆ from Japan, Ying Tze from Malaysia, Jesuke Jes from Singapore and Hana and Baozi from China, and JAM performers Itsuki Akira, Ladybeard, Loverin Tamburin, Aya Ikeda and Pile (singer).\n\nTicketing System\n\nCosplay Mania maintained last year's tier system but with an increase of their prices. All tickets, except for Platinum and Titanium, can be upgraded:\n\n\nAll tickets are available for purchase at all SM Tickets outlets.\n\nNotable activities\n\nCosplay.ph has partnered with NHK with a Japanese Karaoke contest called Asia Karaoke Nodojiman, who's winner was announced the same day and won a free trip and accommodations to Japan.\n\nNotable partners\n\nThis year the event has partnered with Daiichi Kosho, Japan International Broadcasting Inc. and Daisuki.net.\n\nCosplay.ph, the organization behind Cosplay Mania, has announced the date of next year's event as October 1 and 2, 2016 at SMX Convention Center beside SM Mall of Asia.\n\nIt occupied the whole function rooms 1-5 and features more interactive games. Guests artists, voice actors and cosplayers from Asia are also invited.\n\nThe decade-old convention returns to SMX Convention Center, September 29 & 30, 2018.\n\nIn their 10th year, the convention featured big names as special guests:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1397144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1397144", "title": "Druid's Prayer", "text": "Druid's Prayer\n\nThe \"Druid's Prayer\" () or \"Gorsedd Prayer\" (\"Gweddi'r Orsedd\") is a prayer composed by Iolo Morganwg which is still a staple in the ritual of both gorseddau and Neo-Druidism. Neo-Druids sometimes substitute the words \"y Dduwies\" (\"the Goddess\") for the original \"Duw\" (\"God\").\n\nIn the volume \"Barddas\" by Iolo Morganwg (edited and compiled by Reverend John Williams \"ab Ithel\"), there are six versions of the Gorsedd Prayer, both in Iolo's original Welsh and in English translation (the word gwynvyd, roughly corresponding to \"heaven\" is left untranslated).\n\nLlyma Weddi'r Orsedd, a elwir Gweddi'r Gwyddoniaid (O Lyfr Mawr Margam)\nDuw dy nerth, ag yn nerth Dioddef;\nA dioddef dros y gwir, ag yn y gwir pob goleuni;\nAg yngoleuni pob Gwynfyd, ag yngwynfyd Cariad,\nAg ynghariad Duw, ag yn Duw pob daioni.\n\nThe Gorsedd Prayer, called the Prayer of the Gwyddoniaid (From the Great Book of Margam)\nGod, impart Thy strength;\nAnd in strength, power to suffer;\nAnd to suffer for the truth;\nAnd in the truth, all light;\nAnd in light, gwynvyd;\nAnd in gwynfyd, love;\nAnd in love, God;\nAnd in God, all goodness.\n\nLlyma weddi'r Orsedd o Lyfr Trehaearn Brydydd Mawr\nDyro Dduw dy Nawdd;\nAg yn Nawdd, Pwyll;\nAg ymhwyll, Goleuni;\nAg yngoleuni, Gwirionedd;\nAg yngwirionedd, Cyfiawnder;\nAg ynghyfiawnder, Cariad;\nAg ynghariad, Cariad Duw;\nAg ynghariad Duw, pob Gwynfyd.\n\nThe Gorsedd Prayer, from the Book of Trahaiarn the Great Poet\nGrant, God, Thy protection;\nAnd in protection, reason;\nAnd in reason, light;\nAnd in light, truth;\nAnd in truth, justice;\nAnd in justice, love;\nAnd in love, the love of God;\nAnd in the love of God, gwynfyd.\nThe below version is that usually adopted by various druidic groups, notably the \"Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids\" (OBOD) albeit in a different fashion.\n\nLlyma weddi'r orsedd o Lyfr arall\nDyro Dduw dy Nawdd;\nAg yn nawdd, nerth;\nAg yn nerth, Deall;\nAg yn Neall, Gwybod;\nAc yngwybod, gwybod y cyfiawn;\nAg yngwybod yn cyfiawn, ei garu;\nAg o garu, caru pob hanfod;\nAg ymhob Hanfod, caru Duw.\n\nThe Gorsedd Prayer, from another Book\nGrant, O God, Thy protection;\nAnd in protection, strength;\nAnd in strength, understanding;\nAnd in understanding, knowledge;\nAnd in knowledge, the knowledge of justice;\nAnd in the knowledge of justice, the love of it;\nAnd in that love, the love of all existences;\nAnd in the love of all existences, the love of God.\n"}
{"id": "13216184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13216184", "title": "Edward Christian", "text": "Edward Christian\n\nEdward Christian (3 March 1758 – 29 March 1823) was an English judge and law professor. He was the older brother of Fletcher Christian, leader of the Mutiny on the Bounty.\n\nEdward Christian was one of the three sons of Charles Christian of Moorland Close and of the large Ewanrigg Hall estate in Dearham, Cumberland, an attorney-at-law descended from Manx gentry, and his wife Ann Dixon.\n\nCharles's marriage to Ann brought with it the small property of Moorland Close, \"a quadrangle pile of buildings ... half castle, half farmstead.\" Charles died in 1768 and Edward's mother Ann proved herself irresponsible with money. By 1779, Ann had run up a debt of nearly £6,500 (equal to £ today), and faced the prospect of debtors' prison. Moorland Close was lost and Ann and her younger children were forced to flee to the Isle of Man, where English creditors had no power. The three elder Christian sons managed to arrange a £40 (equal to £ today) per year annuity for their mother, allowing the family to live in genteel poverty. His mother Ann died on the Isle of Man in 1819.\n\nChristian attended St Bees School and went up to Peterhouse, Cambridge in 1775, but migrated to St John's College in 1777, graduating as third wrangler in 1779. While at Cambridge he forged a friendship with William Wilberforce. He was admitted to Gray's Inn on 5 July 1782. In 1788 Christian was appointed Downing Professor of the Laws of England, although the chair was only founded along with Downing College in 1800. He held the professorship in conjunction with a fellowship of Downing until his death in 1823. He was also law professor at the East India Company College from 1806 to 1818.\n\nChristian was Chief Justice of the Isle of Ely and was one of the presiding judges at the Ely and Littleport riot Special Commission assizes at Ely in 1816.\n\nIn 1794, Stephen Barney, counsel to the mutineer William Muspratt, at the urging of Edward Christian, published his version of the \"Minutes of the Bounty Court-Martial\", and included an \"Appendix\" written by Edward Christian. In it, Edward did not try to excuse his brother Fletcher's conduct, but citing his interviews with several of the people involved (none directly), and listing the names and addresses of several prominent people as witnesses to these interviews, he recounted several of the excesses of William Bligh, Commander of the Bounty. At the time of the publication of the \"Minutes\" and \"Appendix\", the public's only published source of information about the mutiny were Bligh's own \"A Narrative of the Mutiny on the Bounty\", published in 1790, and \"A Voyage to the South Sea\", published in 1792. With the publication of the \"Appendix\", the tide of public opinion began to turn against Bligh. Indeed, Bligh responded by publishing \"An Answer to Certain Assertions Contained in The Appendix to a Pamphlet, entitled...\" etc., etc., to which, Edward Christian promptly published \"A Short Reply to Capt. William Bligh's Answer\", which only served to fan the flames.\n\nThe process was aided by the efforts of the family of Peter Heywood, a midshipman on the \"Bounty\", and others, but many attribute the source of William Bligh's bad reputation, to this day, to Edward Christian's \"Appendix\". It is believed by many that Edward Christian's impetus for both the \"Minutes\" and the \"Appendix\", were a letter from, and a subsequent meeting with, Peter Heywood, after the latter's pardon.\n\n"}
{"id": "24906341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24906341", "title": "Equivocation (play)", "text": "Equivocation (play)\n\nEquivocation, written by Bill Cain, is a play about telling the truth in difficult times. It proposes the question: what if the government commissioned William Shakespeare (known as Shagspeare in the play) to write the definitive history of a national crisis, the Gunpowder Plot, as one of his plays.\n\nLondon. 1605. A room. Sir Robert Cecil has called for Master William Shagspeare (Shag for short) to commission a play for King James. After reading what it is he should write about, Shag quickly rejects the offer, but is overpowered by Cecil and is forced to take the commission. The scene suddenly turns into one of Shag's plays as actors (Nate, Armin, Richard, and Sharpe) come out performing a scene from \"King Lear\", which Sharpe claims is unplayable. Shag breaks up the argument and tells them how Cecil called upon him, and how he has been commissioned to write a true history of the Gunpowder Plot. Shag tells them he's wary, since current events have never been done on the stage, but his actors claim he's \"the man for the job\". With that, Shag begins to write.\n\nEnter Judith, Shag's daughter, who looks at the darker aspects of life. After asking him how many people he's killed off in his new play, she gives him clothing to go change into. There is obvious tension between the two. While Shag changes off stage, Judith gives a soliloquy to the audience about how she hates both plays and soliloquies. Shag reenters, scolding her for messing with his work. Shag asks Judith how her twin brother is doing, and she reminds him that her brother is dead. She tells him to ask about her, in which he replies, \"You're always the same.\" When Judith exits Shag's work comes to life. A scene unfolds, in Shakespearean tongue, of three conspirators (played by Nate, Richard, and Sharpe) meeting with the Jesuit priest Henry Garnet (played by Armin) about how they plan on blowing up Parliament. After playing out the whole scene all the actors and Shag, with the exception of Sharpe, agree that it just doesn't work. Sharpe then suggests that they change the ending and blow up Parliament, and is immediately berated by Richard about how it is a terrible idea to put on a play about blowing up a king in the presence of the king. Nate and Armin mention how they don't understand how thirteen gentlemen could go about digging a tunnel under Parliament without getting caught, which gets Shag thinking.\n\nShag makes a trip back to see Cecil, who is annoyed that Shag has yet to finish the play. Shag tells Cecil he wants to know about the dirt (\"Dirt? What dirt?\"), which Cecil refuses to tell him of. After arguing some more, Shag tells Cecil how there is (in the story) no plot, to which Cecil, outraged, replies, \"It is treason to say so!\" When Shag says how he was just giving literary criticism, Cecil realizes his misunderstanding and acts like he said nothing. Shag also apologizes to Cecil for portraying Cecil's father as Polonius in Hamlet. He then asks to interview Thomas Wintour, a conspirator in the Gunpowder Plot. Cecil agrees.\nThe next scene unfolds to show Wintour being suspended, with guards telling him how exactly he's going to be executed. Shag meets with Wintour, who at first refuses to speak with him. Shag is about to leave but when he sees how Wintour can't even write a letter to his wife because his hands are so damaged, Shag agrees to write Wintour's wife a letter if Wintour helps him. Wintour tells Shag of how Robert Catesby called a meeting to first start the plot. Catesby tells Wintour how Cecil gave him the gunpowder, supposedly for a military expedition on the continent. He also tells him of a room underneath Parliament where the deed can be done. Astonished, Shag asks Wintour about Garnet's role in this. Wintour informs him how Garnet was never in on the plan. Wintour, Catesby, and the other conspirators turn back into Shag's actors, who are just as astonished by the new play as Shag is. Richard tells them they can't do the show because it is far too dangerous to perform, but Shag insists. Richard realizes why Shag wants to do this so badly and tells Shag, \"Helping someone else's son won't bring back yours.\"\n\nCecil then arrives at the Globe, wanting a word with Shag. He tells Shag how he has gotten his hands on a copy of the new script and does not deem it worthy to be performed. When Shag asks how he got a copy, Cecil insinuates there might be one or more moles in his theatre company. He then takes the letter Wintour wrote to his wife away from Shag. Wintour's execution is announced. Shag begs for them to let him live, but Cecil will not comply. Wintour recites a poem before being hung, and then is cut down (while he is still alive), cut open, and then has his head cut off. At the final moments of the first act Cecil says, \"Behold! The head of a traitor!\" and holds up Wintour's severed head. Suddenly, the eyes of Wintour open and he whispers, \"Thou liest.\" Blackout.\n\nThe second act starts in a courtroom at the trial of the Jesuit priest, Henry Garnet. Prosecutor Edward Coke asks Garnet if he knew the conspirators of the plot, which he denies, but he then affirms knowing Robert Catesby, Thomas Wintour, and all of the other accused except Guy Fawkes, explaining that he did not know them as conspirators. When Cecil challenges him to answer using plain \"yes\" and \"no\", he tells of a hypothetical scenario in which the King was seeking shelter from the Spanish in Coke's house, asking whether he would tell the Spanish the King was inside—betray the King or deliberately lie. Coke, trapped by Garnet's words, ends the trial and orders that Garnet be removed to his cell.\n\nLater, Shag comes to Garnet's cell disguised as a jailor, which Garnet quickly sees through. He tells Garnet he has come to learn to equivocate—to tell the truth in his play without getting caught at it. Garnet gives him the same hypothetical scenario and asks him what the Spanish are \"really\" asking, but Shag can't figure it out.\n\nThe play was first produced at the Oregon Shakespeare Festival in Ashland, Oregon. It premiered April 15, 2009, and closed on October 31, 2009.\n\nSeattle Repertory Theatre in partnership with Oregon Shakespeare Festival presented the play in Seattle from 18 November through 13 December 2009. As in Ashland, it was directed by Bill Rauch with Anthony Heald, Christine Albright, Jonathan Haugen, Richard Elmore, John Tufts and Gregory Linington.\n\nThe play appeared at the New York City Center in March, 2010 with John Pankow, Charlotte Parry, Remy Auberjonois, Michael Countryman, David Furr and David Pittu. Garry Hynes directed.\n\nIt was produced by Circa Theatre, Wellington, New Zealand where it ran from 24 May to 21 June 2014. At the time the Sheila Winn National Shakespeare competition was being held, and student groups attending or competing were encouraged to attend the performance.\n\nIt has also been produced at Bard on the Beach Shakespeare Festival in Vancouver, Canada – being performed for a fixed run from July 2, 2014 to September 27, 2014.\n\nThe play was part of the 2014 season at Will Geer's Theatricum Botanicum in Topanga, California, with Ted Barton, Alan Blumenfeld, Dane Oliver, Franc Ross, Taylor Jackson Ross, and Paul Turbiak in Mike Peebler's production hailed by the \"Los Angeles Times\" as a \"Critics' Choice.\"\n\nThe play was produced as part of the 2015 season at the Shakespeare Theatre of New Jersey, directed by Paul Mullins. Cast included James Michael Reilly (Shag), Rob Krakovski (Richard/Garnet), Kevin Isola (Armin and others), Matthew Stucky (Sharpe/Tom Wintour/James), Dominic Comperatore (Nate/Cecil), and Therese Barbato (Judith). \n\n\"Equivocation\", though it has many roles, was never intended to have a large cast. The intention was always to have six actors. Because of this, four of the six actors are meant to carry the weight of the show by taking on ten or more roles each.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49320377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49320377", "title": "Evacuation of civilians from the Channel Islands in 1940", "text": "Evacuation of civilians from the Channel Islands in 1940\n\nThe occupants of the Channel Islands became involved in European events of 1938–39 only as distant and worried listeners to the radio and readers of newspapers. The declaration of War by Britain on 3 September 1939 increased the concern. However, life in the islands continued much as normal. By spring 1940 the islands were advertising themselves as holiday destinations.\n\nOn 10 May 1940, the Phoney War ended and Belgium and the Netherlands were invaded. Little did the islanders imagine their homes would be under German occupation for five years, before liberation on 9 May 1945.\n\nWhen it became clear that the Battle of France was lost, time was limited for anyone to evacuate, even so 25,000 people went to England, roughly 17,000 from Guernsey, 6,000 from Jersey and 2,000 from Alderney in the ten days before the German troops landed at the end of June 1940. Most civilians who were evacuated went to England.\n\nThe National Service (Armed Forces) Act 1939 passed on 3 September 1939 enforced full conscription on all males between 18 and 41, however it only applied to the United Kingdom and had no effect in the independent Channel Islands. A number of men, especially those who had served in the Royal Guernsey Militia or the Royal Militia of the Island of Jersey as well as men who had been in the Officers' Training Corps at Victoria College, Jersey and Elizabeth College, Guernsey travelled to England, volunteered and were swiftly taken into the armed services, the Jersey militia men leaving as an organised unit.\n\nBy mid May 1940 the news was not good; Germans were fighting in France and individuals as well as whole families were making plans and taking the ferry to England. Even so, holidaymakers were still coming to the islands. By the beginning of June, the evacuation of Dunkirk was the main topic of conversation, resulting in more people considering leaving the Channel Islands. Paris surrendered without a fight on 14 June.\n\nNot knowing that on 15 June the British Army commanders had decided the Channel Islands were not defensible, the islanders were surprised to see the resident army units quickly depart on ships, with all of their equipment, the islands were being abandoned. The \"Channel Islands had been demilitarised and declared... 'an open town'...\", without telling anyone, until after the islands had been bombed on 28 June, as the British government did not want to invite the Germans to take the islands.\n\nOn 19 June the Guernsey local paper published announcements that plans were well in hand to evacuate all the children from the island, telling parents to go to their schools that evening to register and to prepare to send the children away the next day. Some schools asking that the child and their suitcase be brought so it could be checked. Teachers were told they were expected to travel with their children bringing assistants to help, mothers volunteered.\n\nSome schools decided to relocate in total whereas others had their children scattered amongst local schools all over England, Scotland and Wales. 5,000 schoolchildren evacuated from Guernsey and 1,000 stayed with 12 teachers. Amongst those who stayed were a number from the Castel school, who through a misunderstanding about the boat departure time, missed the sailing.\n\nIn Jersey there was no instruction to schools, people could decide themselves if they, or their children, should evacuate. Only 1,000 evacuated with 67 teachers, many travelling with their parents, the remaining 4,500 would remain for the occupation with 140 teachers.\n\nMothers with children below school age were authorised to go on the first ships, as were men of military age.\n\nIn Jersey, where the school children were on two weeks holiday to help with the potato harvest, everyone who wished to leave was asked to register, queues quickly appeared, with 23,000 eventually registering. The civil service could not cope and scared of potential riots with desperate people trying to get on ships, announcements that it was best to stay in the island resulted in only about 1,000 Jersey children being evacuated with their parents and 67 teachers.\n\nAs soon as the majority of the first wave had departed, ships were made available for anyone else who wished to depart, however with the fear of ships being mobbed, riots amongst travellers and in the empty towns, with looting of empty houses and shops, as had happened in France on the Channel coast, the authorities pushed the message that 'staying was best', with posters saying “Don’t be yellow, stay at home”, (the \"patriot\" responsible for this poster fled to England). This led to confusion and disorder, especially in Jersey where the authorities did not think it necessary to evacuate children, therefore it was safe for adults to stay.\n\nThe reasons why people stayed or evacuated were personal, ranging from fear of the unknown to noble thoughts of continuing the fight with England. Only a few people were put under pressure to either evacuate or stay, often due to their important jobs.\n\nThe island authorities assumed that all locals who particularly feared a German occupation would leave the islands, such as people of the Jewish faith. Some certainly did, however it came as a surprise to find out later that others had decided not to leave or who were barred from entering the United Kingdom, because they were \"aliens\", resulted in around 20 people the Germans would define as \"Jewish\" becoming trapped in the islands.\n\nHouses, cars and businesses were abandoned by those evacuating. Some locked their front doors, some did not, reasoning that someone would break the door to get in anyway. Some gave away pets, others just released them, many put them down. Some gave away furniture and belongings, some gave it to someone for safe storage, others simply walked away, leaving dirty dishes in the sink and food on the table. The withdrawal of cash from banks was limited to £20 per person. People could take just one suitcase.\n\nThe Lieutenant Governor of Jersey and Lieutenant Governor of Guernsey left their islands on board ships on 21 June 1940, the day France surrendered.\n\nShips urgently needed to evacuate soldiers from France in Operation Ariel, were diverted to help civilians in the Channel Islands. Marshal Philippe Pétain requested an armistice on 17 June and on 19 June nearby Cherbourg was captured by German forces.\n\n25 ships took people from Guernsey on 21 June alone, ships like the SS \"Viking\", built 1905, served as HMS \"Vindex\" until 1918. Requisitioned in 1939 as a troopship, she transported 1,800 schoolchildren from Guernsey to Weymouth. Eighteen ships sailed on 21 June from Jersey including the SS \"Shepperton Ferry\" carrying military stores and 400 evacuees. Evacuation ships stopped on 23 June, when ships sailed for England empty. The regular cargo boats and ferries were asked to resume normal service and six evacuation ships were sent to Alderney on 23 June, where previous ships had docked and left almost empty of passengers. 90% of all Channel Island evacuees were taken to Weymouth Harbour, Dorset.\n\nSeveral ships including the Southern Railway SS \"Isle of Sark\", the normal cross channel ferry, were docked in St Peter Port harbour on 28 June when the Luftwaffe arrived and six Heinkel He 111 bombers attacked Guernsey. Lewis machine guns on the ships opened fire, to no visible effect. The bomb damage was mainly to the harbour where lorries loaded with tomatoes for export were lined up, 34 people died. A similar attack occurred in Jersey where nine died. That night the \"Isle of Sark\" sailed for England with 647 refugees, she was the last ship to sail, its Captain, Hervy H. Golding being awarded an OBE for his actions that day.\n\nThe fact that Guernsey was loading ships with tomatoes rather than people indicates the lack of panic; ships from Guernsey and Jersey designated to carry evacuees were sometimes packed, but others did not sail to their full capacity. No hospital ship had arrived to take the elderly and sick away. Several ships, including the Guernsey lifeboat, were machine gunned by German aircraft however with enemy aircraft and submarines operating in the Channel, it was lucky that no evacuation ship was sunk.\n\nR.A.F. units moved from Dinard in France to Jersey on 15 June, No. 17 Squadron RAF and No. 501 Squadron RAF flying sorties until 19 June, in support of the evacuation from Cherbourg, when the aircraft flew to England and the ground support units were evacuated on the SS Train Ferry No. 1. Other military planes were using the Islands, on 17 June 1940, a de Havilland Dragon Rapide DH.89 plane arrived in Jersey from Bordeaux evacuating \"Général de brigade\" Charles de Gaulle from France. He stayed for lunch whilst waiting for the plane to be refuelled, before flying on to London.\n\n319 people evacuated the islands on five civilian de Havilland Express DH-86 aircraft, between 16 and 19 June, landing in Exeter.\n\nUpon arrival in England, the Guernsey school children were met with mountains of jam sandwiches, bread and butter and tea, before being given a medical and put on crowded blacked out trains, machines most island children had never seen before, to be transported north. 5,000 Guernsey children with their teachers and 500 mothers who became teaching assistants.\n\nMost Alderney and Jersey school children were scattered, attending different local schools, except Victoria College, Jersey pupils who congregated at Bedford School\n\nIn the years to come, children leaving school at the normal age of 14 went into occupations including war industries and would join the Home Guard, 17 year old girls could join the ATS or WLA.\n\nSome reception centres run by The Salvation Army and WVS helpers were surprised to discover that Channel Islanders could speak English, having arranged for translators to be available, islanders answering questions put to them in French with their own local Patois which the translators could not understand. Some ignorant people asked if they had sailed across the Mediterranean and why were they not wearing grass skirts.\n\nStockport had received at least 1,500 refugees and would years later erect a blue plaque to commemorate the event, others went to Bury, Oldham, Wigan, Halifax, Manchester, Glasgow and many other towns.\n\nSome mothers travelling with children whose husbands either stayed in the islands or had joined the armed services initially found attempts were tried to take their children away as it was considered they could not possibly look after them with their husbands away.\n\nWomen whose husbands were still in the islands were told they were not allowed to rent accommodation, so found they had to match up with a woman whose husband was in the armed services and share a house. Not being able to live on the public assistance monies, one mother would look after the children whilst another mother went out to work, sometimes both worked, one doing a night shift and the other a day shift.\n\nSome houses were not good, previously condemned, damp or bug ridden. Others used empty shops as nothing else was available. If children or families had relatives in the UK, they tended to drift, with their single suitcase of belongings to them, to seek assistance. Some evacuees had brought an elderly relative with them. Islanders were not shy in volunteering for Air Raid Precautions (ARP), Auxiliary Fire Service (AFS), Home Guard or Voluntary Aid Detachment (VAD) duties in their spare time.\n\nPeople in the North of England generally rallied to help the evacuees. They were very generous, helping with clothes and shoes, arranging picnics, providing free tickets to cinemas and football matches, lending furniture and donating money for Christmas presents for children.\n\nJust because thousands had managed to cross the English Channel safely did not mean they would have a safe war. Children from Manchester had recently been evacuated to Canada, as that city was not considered safe, they were replaced by Channel Island children.\n\nThose that joined the armed forces were subject to the usual war risks, those that worked in the UK, whether in war industries or elsewhere were, just like the children, subject to the risk of bombing.\n\nSome of the Channel Island children, like some of the 1,500,000 British children that were evacuated from cities in 1939, would suffer mistreatment and abuse, physical, mental and sexual.\n\nThere are stories of extorting child labour, stealing the rations of the children, beatings, etc., but they were in the minority, and most were rescued by inspectors. For a few, being fostered was a better life than they had had at home.\n\nThe psychological damage changed many evacuees, especially children and especially those deprived of their parents, teachers, siblings and friends for five years. Some put up with, even though they hated the experience, most of the children had nobody to talk to about problems and abuse. It was not unusual to blame evacuee children if there was vandalism or something went missing. Most were content and more than a few children formed long lasting friendships with loving caring families that looked after them.\n\nChannel Island refugees were not able to write or receive letters to people at home, as their homes were now occupied by the enemy.\n\nEveryone who left the islands left behind friends and relatives. With the islands under German occupation communications were severed. In 1941 the International Red Cross message system, which was designed primarily for use by captured soldiers was, following negotiations, allowed to include civilians in the Channel Islands. In May 1941, the first 7,000 arrived in England.\n\nThis was initially limited to 10 words per letter, but was later changed to 25, which was the standard for POWs. The rules changed over the years; at one point islanders were not permitted to write to relatives, but could write to friends. The number of messages one could send were limited, and replies had to be on the back of the original message. Messages might take months, although a few arrived in weeks. All messages were routed via the International Red Cross headquarters in Geneva, which dealt with 24 million messages during the war. The islands dealt with around 1 million. Each message sent cost 6d.\n\nTo islanders, this tiny link was a saviour. Although slow and limited, it kept vital contacts and reduced fear of the unknown. However, not all messages were good; they included notices like \"Baby Mary died last December.\" One family who had two boys in England received a message saying \"Your son died in England.\" Messages ceased shortly after 6 June 1944, when the islands were cut off and isolated.\n\nThe Jersey Society, which had been founded in London in 1896, acted as a link for Jersey evacuees during the war. The society accumulated over 1,000 books published during the war to restock the island libraries after the war.\n\nOver 90 local \"Channel Island Societies\" were established in England, with weekly meetings and arranged social events, including card games and dances. Welfare committees were established to help islanders, allowing the evacuees to maintain contact, talk about their news, gain mutual support and allow children to play together. Islanders serving in the forces would attend meetings when possible.\n\nThe Guernsey Society was formed in 1943 to represent the interests of the island to the British Government during the German Occupation, and to establish a network for Guernsey evacuees in the United Kingdom.\nLapel badges were produced to help islanders recognise other evacuees.\n\n20 Upper Grosvenor Street was the contact address for Islanders in London; it provided a legal bureau and held records of where 30,000 Channel Islanders could be found. A room called \"Le Coin\" became a home from home for anyone passing through the capital wanting to meet other Islanders.\n\nThe Stockport and District Society was founded in January 1941 when 250 prospective members attended the first meeting. They decided to publish the \"Channel Island Monthly Review\", despite a ban on new periodicals in August 1940, due to paper shortages. The first edition, a four-page sheet, appeared in May 1941. It quickly became popular amongst the thousands of Channel Island people living in the UK. The Review was threatened with closure in May 1942 after questions in Parliament.\n\nIt did not close, and the 20-24 page \"Review\" was published with up to 5,000 copies a month posted out to subscribers, including service people, all over the world.\n\nThe \"Review\" included a collection of articles and poetry relevant to Channel Island people and personal comments received from Red Cross messages that might affect other islanders, such as births, marriages and deaths, as well as greeting messages.\n\nFollowing the Deportations from the German-occupied Channel Islands in September 1942 the December edition of the Review published lists of the deportees and their contact details so Red Cross messages could be sent to them.\n\nThe Methodist church tried to keep track of their island members in England, introduce them to English Methodists and to provide them with advice, some money, winter clothing and employment.\n\nMany Channel Islanders had emigrated to Canada over the years and these got together to help their homeland evacuees. Philippe William Luce founded the Vancouver Society for the 500 Channel Islanders who lived in the area, who collected many thousands of dollars and hundreds of crates of clothing and shoes to send to England.\nA \"Foster Parent Plan for Children Affected by War\" was originally created in 1937 to help children in the Spanish Civil War, with Americans adopting a child and providing money for education and clothing. Participants included film stars. Eleanor Roosevelt adopted three children in 1942. One, Paulette, was a Guernsey evacuee who referred to her as \"Auntie Eleanor who lived in the White House.\"\n\nThe BBC recorded island children singing for a Christmas 1942 radio broadcast. The BBC also produced a film of the evacuees showing a rally on 19 June 1943 in the Belle Vue Stadium in Manchester that was attended by 6,000 islanders.\n\nThe British Government had opened up an evacuation account for each of the Bailiwicks of Guernsey and Jersey, to which certain costs could be charged, such as the cost of the evacuation ships, rail travel and the education costs of children. There were concerns over helping Channel Island private schools with their costs as British private schools received no help when evacuated from cities.\n\nFrom the people who had left the Channel Islands in 1939-40 and been evacuated in 1940, over 10,000 islanders served with Allied forces. \n\nA higher percentage of serving people from the islands had died per head of pre-war population than in the UK.\n\nOf those who had stayed in the islands, a higher percentage of civilians died in the islands per head of pre-war population than in the UK.\n\nPeople began to return in July and August 1945, with some children taking their northern accents with them.\n\nChildren who had not seen their parents for five years often did not recognise them. The adults who had stayed in the islands looked old, tired, thin and wore old clothes. A few children never adjusted to the return, as the trauma of separation was too great.\n\nFor UK foster parents, the trauma of losing the children they had looked after and grown to love could be just as bad. Some children and families kept contact and many held fond memories and grateful thanks for the people of the north who showed so much kindness. The Mayor of Bolton had threatened the islands with another invasion after liberation, as so many Lancashire holidaymakers would want to see the islands they had heard so much about.\n\nNot all evacuees returned. Families who had owned no property in the islands had found jobs and houses, and some youngsters had found employment and love in their evacuation towns. Some who did return found the men they had left in the islands had formed a relationship with another woman. No doubt the reverse applied, with women finding a new partner. Women who had become used to working found no jobs available in the islands apart from scrubbing floors.\n\nMany adults returned at the same time as the school children; however, some who had volunteered for the armed services were demobbed in 1946. The meetings of families could be equally traumatic, with wives and husbands meeting again for the first time in five years and discovering they had lived very different lives which were hard to talk about. Those who had been evacuated were told that it was tougher in the islands. Alderney residents were not allowed to return to their island until December 1945.\n\nThe islands ended the war with a debt of £9,000,000, which the UK Government hoped would be repaid. This was roughly the total value of every house in the Channel Islands and included the evacuation accounts. A generous gift from the UK government of £3,300,000 was used to recompense islanders who had suffered losses and the cost of maintaining the evacuees, estimated at £1,000,000, was written off by the government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6302591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6302591", "title": "FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 1962", "text": "FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 1962\n\nThe FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 1962 took place February 18–25, 1962 in Zakopane, Poland. Zakopane became the second city to host the world championships three times (1929, 1939), joining Lahti, Finland (1926, 1938, and 1958). Women's 5 km and the ski jumping individual normal hill made their event debuts at these championships.\n\nFebruary 20, 1962\n\nFebruary 18, 1962\n\nFebruary 24, 1962\n\nFebruary 22, 1962\n\nFebruary 19, 1962\n\nFebruary 21, 1962\n\nFebruary 23, 1962\n\nFebruary 19/20, 1962\n\nFebruary 21, 1962\n\nFebruary 25, 1962\n\n"}
{"id": "11158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11158", "title": "February 12", "text": "February 12\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28345527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28345527", "title": "Great Compression", "text": "Great Compression\n\nThe Great Compression refers to \"a decade of extraordinary wage compression\" in the United States in the early 1940s. During that time economic inequality as shown by wealth distribution and income distribution between the rich and poor became much smaller than it had been in preceding time periods. The term was reportedly coined by Claudia Goldin and Robert Margo in a 1992 paper, and is a takeoff on the Great Depression, an event during which the Great Compression started. \nAccording to economists Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez, analysis of personal income tax data shows that the compression ended in the 1970s and has now reversed in the United States, and to a lesser extent in Canada, and England where there is greater income inequality metrics and wealth concentration. In France and Japan, who have maintained progressive taxation there has not been an increase in inequality. In Switzerland, where progressive taxation was never implemented, compression never occurred. \n\nEconomist Paul Krugman gives credit for the compression not only to progressive income taxation but to other New Deal and World War II policies of President Franklin Roosevelt. From about 1937 to 1947 highly progressive taxation, the strengthening of unions of the New Deal, and the wage and price controls of the National War Labor Board during World War II, raised the income of the poor and working class and lowered that of top earners. Krugman argues these explanation are more convincing than the conventional Kuznets curve cycle of inequality driven by market forces because a natural change would have been gradual and not sudden as the compression was. \n\nExplanation for the length of the compression's lasting have attributed to the lack of immigrant labor in the US during that time (immigrants often not being able to vote and so support their political interests) and the strength of unions, exemplified by Reuther's Treaty of Detroit—a landmark 1949 business-labor bargain struck between the United Auto Workers union and General Motors. Under that agreement, UAW members were guaranteed wages that rose with productivity, as well as health and retirement benefits. In return GM had relatively few strikes, slowdowns, etc. Unions helped limit increases in executive pay. Further, members of Congress in both political parties significantly overlapped in their voting records and relatively more politicians advocated centrist positions with a general acceptance of New Deal policies. \n\nThe end of income compression has been credited to \"impersonal forces\", such as technological change and globalization, but also to political and policy changes that affected institutions (e.g., unions) and norms (e.g., acceptable executive pay). Krugman argues that the rise of \"movement conservatism\"—a \"highly cohesive set of interlocking institutions that brought Ronald Reagan and Newt Gingrich to power\"—beginning in the late 1970s and early 1980s brought lower taxes on the rich and significant holes in the social safety net. The relative power of unions declined significantly along with union membership, and executive pay rose considerably relative to average worker pay. The reversal of the great compression has been called \"the Great Divergence\" by Krugman and is the title of a \"Slate\" article and book by Timothy Noah. Krugman also notes that era before the Great Divergence was one not only of relative equality but of economic growth far surpassing the \"Great Divergence\".\n\n"}
{"id": "17951331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17951331", "title": "Handspring (company)", "text": "Handspring (company)\n\nHandspring, Inc was a maker of Palm OS–based Visor- and Treo-branded personal digital assistants. In 2003, the company merged with Palm, Inc.'s hardware division.\n\nThe company was founded in June 1998 by Jeff Hawkins, Donna Dubinsky, and Ed Colligan, the original inventors of the PalmPilot and founders of Palm, Inc., after they became unhappy with the direction of the company after its acquisition by 3Com. Their Visor line of PDAs synced by USB, which was significantly faster than Palm's RS232 serial sync. The Springboard expansion slot provided GPS navigation, cameras, music players, cell phone service, and most of the functions of a \"smart phone\". \n\nIn June 2000, during the dot-com bubble, the company became a public company via an initial public offering. Shares rose 35% on the first day of trading.\n\nIn 2003, the company merged with Palm, Inc.'s hardware division.\n\nHandspring first introduced the Visor Solo, which was black and contained 2MB of onboard memory. The Visor Deluxe had the option of translucent colored models, and had 8MB of onboard memory. The Visor and Visor Deluxe used Palm OS 3.1H running on a Freescale DragonBall processor, a modified version of the OS from Palm that included an enhanced datebook, a city time graphical world clock, and an advanced calculator. Unlike the Palm Pilot, the Visor's IrDA port was placed on the side of the device to make room for the Springboard Expansion Slot. The Visor and Visor Deluxe weight is 5.4 oz. Their dimensions are 4.8\" x 3.0\" x 0.7\". The display is 2.25 inches square with diagonal span of 3.0 inches.\n\nWhen Handspring released the Visor Prism, it was flashlight-bright and the first Palm OS handheld to have a 16-bit color display (65,536 colors); the contemporary model (IIIc) produced by Palm only had an 8-bit color display (256 colors). Like Palm's IIIc, Prism's color screen turned nearly pitch black in sunlight. Prism's cobalt-blue-only case (and cradle, which required an attached AC charger, as USB cables could not supply power at the time) was a departure for a PDA line known for a broad array of colored cases. Prism's power came from a rechargeable lithium ion battery, rather than two AAA batteries like previous Visors. However, despite the shoehorn-like contoured back to support the rechargeable battery, it did have the Visor Springboard slot; the infrared port was again on the side. The Prism featured Palm OS 3.5.2H3, and weighed 6.9 oz. The dimensions were 4.8\" × 3.0\" × 0.8\" with the display measuring the same as other Visors (2.25 inches square with diagonal span of 3.0 inches). The highest OS upgrade is OS 3.5.3.\n\nThe Visor Platinum was similar to the Visor Deluxe. Apart from shell color, the exterior of the devices were indistinguishable. The Visor Platinum was available only in a silver (platinum) or black colored shell, as opposed to the Visor Deluxe's many color choices. The Platinum included a 33-MHz Motorola DragonBall VZ processor while the Deluxe only supported a 16 or 20-MHz chip. More, the Visor Deluxe used OS 3.1H while the Visor Platinum used OS 3.5.2H. At the time of the release of the Platinum, it sported the fastest processor for a Palm OS device. Like all Visors, the Platinum contained a microphone, intended to be used for Springboard slot-based cell phones.\n\nReleased in March 2001, the slim Visor Edge featured an MC68VZ328 DragonBall CPU clocked at 33MHz. The 160×160-pixel, 4-bit grayscale (16 shades of gray) display was standard for most Palm PDAs. However, at the time it was the thinnest and lightest Visor, sizing in at 4.7\" x 3.1\" x 0.44\" and weighing 4.8 ounces with the display measuring the same 2.25 inches square with diagonal span of 3.0 inches as other Visors. It was packed with 8MB RAM and Handspring's latest version of the Palm OS, version 3.5.2H. Available in three colors, Metallic Blue, Metallic Silver, and Metallic Red, it was also eye catching. The built-in rechargeable Lithium-ion battery generally lasted two to four weeks on a charge. However, due to its size, the standard Springboard slot was accessed through a slide-on sleeve rather than a built-in slot. Nevertheless, this still allowed the Visor Edge to access the Springboard Modules available.\n\nReleased in September 2001, the Neo featured an MC68VZ328 DragonBall processor clocked at 33MHz. It had 8MB DRAM, an IrDA-compliant infrared interface, and Handspring's standard Springboard slot. Neo sported a 160×160-pixel, 4-bit grayscale (16 shades of gray) display. The 4.8\" × 3.0\" × 0.7\" unit, weighing in at 5.4 ounces, came in sleek, translucent Blue, Red, or Smoke-grey colored case. It used Handspring's modified version of the Palm OS, version 3.5.2H3. Power came from two AAA batteries that would last up to two months. This model had a lower price, with which Handspring was hoping to attract new users. The display of all Visors measured 2.25 inches square with diagonal span of 3.0 inches.\n\nReleased in September 2001, the Visor Pro was Handspring's last model in its Visor series of PDAs. The 4.8\" × 3.0\" × 0.7\" unit was powered by an MC68VZ328 DragonBall processor clocked at 33MHz. Weighing 5.7 ounces, the unit came with 16 MB RAM, a built-in microphone, and Handspring's Springboard slot. It had a 4-bit grayscale (16 grays), backlit, monochrome display. Its power supply came from a rechargeable lithium-ion battery.\n\nIn early 2002, Handspring ceased production of the Visor line, replacing it with a line of handhelds that were to be more \"communication-centric\" in nature; these would be sold under the name Treo. Except for the Treo 90, all Treo devices were smartphones with integrated cellular phones, and nearly all featured built-in keyboards to enhance e-mail and SMS functionality. The Treo line met with success, attributed in large part to Handspring's in-house VisorPhone software, which was tightly integrated with the Palm OS. The Springboard feature was no longer available on the Treo line, with Handspring favoring slimmer designs that left no room for the large slots necessary to support Springboard cartridges; peripheral technologies such as SDIO would soon render the Springboard platform obsolete. Additionally, technological advances meant that much of the functionality provided by Springboard modules, such as additional memory, a camera, MP3 player, Wi-Fi antenna, and GPS, could now be integrated into the handheld itself at reduced cost.\n\nThe first models of the series, the Treo 180 and 180g were released in February 2002 as monochrome-screen GSM phones; the 180 had an integrated thumb keyboard, while the 180g had a Graffiti writing area in lieu of the keyboard.\n\nHandspring followed the Treo 180 with the Treo 90 in April 2002. The Treo 90 was the only Treo that was not a smartphone, as it did not have mobile telephony capabilities. At the time of release, it was the physically smallest Palm OS device on the market. The Treo 90 pioneered features such as a color screen and an SD card slot, which are found on all subsequent Treo models.\n\nThe Treo 270 and Treo 300 were twin models; the former worked using GSM networks, while the latter was a CDMA phone, released by Sprint Corporation.\n\nThe Treo 600 was the first Treo to be rebranded as a Palm, Inc. product after Palm's acquisition of Handspring, as the PalmOne Treo 600. At the time, the GSM version of the phone was one of the few quad-band phones available in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "4012338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4012338", "title": "Håkon Kyllingmark", "text": "Håkon Kyllingmark\n\nHåkon Olai Kyllingmark (19 January 1915 – 12 August 2003) was a Norwegian military officer and businessman. He served as a politician for the Conservative Party and was elected to the Norwegian Parliament. \n\nHe was born at Kjelvik in Finnmark, Norway. His parents were Martin Kyllingmark (1879-1916) and Sigridur Sæmundsdottir (1892-1963).\nHe received an education at the Army Command School in 1934 and the Flyvåpen Flying School in 1937. He had a career in the Norwegian Armed Forces between in 1940 and 1943-1945. He rose to the rank of captain in 1944 and major in 1945–1954. He had been a member of Milorg during the German occupation of Norway, and received the Defence Medal 1940–1945.\n\nKyllingmark was a principally of the wholesale company H. Kyllingmark A / S from 1945-1965. He was involved in local politics in Svolvær from 1945 to 1947 and 1951 to 1963. He was elected to the Norwegian Parliament from Nordland in 1954, and was re-elected on six occasions. From August to September 1963 he was Minister of Defence during the short-lived centre-right cabinet Lyng. While he held this position Moy Herborg Regina Nordahl took his seat in parliament. He was later Norwegian Minister of Transport from 1965 to 1971 during the cabinet Borten. His seat was filled by Bodil Aakre, Leif Kolflaath and Andreas Grimsø alternately.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2924529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2924529", "title": "Joe Magarac", "text": "Joe Magarac\n\nJoe Magarac is a pseudo-legendary American folk hero. He is presented to readers as having been the protagonist of tales of oral folklore told by steelworkers in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, which later spread throughout the industrial areas of the Midwestern United States. \n\nMagarac first appeared in print in a 1931 Scribner's Magazine article by Owen Francis, who said he heard the story from Croatian immigrant steelworkers in Pittsburgh area steel mills. \n\nHowever, field research in the early 1950s failed to uncover any traces of an oral tradition about the character, meaning that Joe Magarac, like Big Steve and Febold Feboldson, probably belongs in the category of \"fakelore,\" or stories told folk-tale style that did not actually spring from authentic folklore.\n\nJoe Magarac, whose name means \"donkey\" in Serbian and Croatian, is variously described as Hungarian, Serbian, Croatian, or Bohemian. Joe Magarac stories were told in many industrial cities of the Midwest, though his home was always Pittsburgh. Magarac has been depicted as a patron saint for steelworkers. He was reputed to be able to do the work of 29 men, because he worked 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. \n\nHe lived at Mrs. Horkey's boarding house and was physically made of steel. He was allegedly born inside—or on the outside of—an ore mountain and rose out of an ore mine to help steelworkers. He would appear at critical moments to protect steelworkers, for example to stop the falling of a 50-ton crucible on a group of steelworkers.\n\nMagarac won the beautiful Mary Mestrovich's hand in marriage in a weight-lifting contest, but he allowed her to marry her true love Pete Pussick. \n\nHis fate is debated as well. While one version of the tale states that he melted himself down in a Bessemer furnace for material to build a new mill, another states that he is still alive. The second version suggests that he is waiting at an abandoned mill, waiting for the day that the furnace burns again.\n\nWhether Magarac is still living often rests on his ability to change from steel into human form. In the comic \"Joe Magarac and His U.S.A. Citizen Papers\" written by Irwin Shapiro and illustrated by James Daugherty, in which Magarac is a superhuman immigrant made of steel. He is melted down into steel and becomes part of the US Capitol Building; after hearing politicians discussing immigration, Magarac returns to human form and goes to war against Washington, D.C.\n\nPittsburgh's local amusement park, Kennywood, had a depiction of Joe Magarac as a scene for the Olde Kennywood Railroad. During the slow moving, historic and culturally entertaining ride, Joe Magarac was depicted with a red-hot steel beam, bending it into shape for the amusement park's steel coasters. In 2009, the statue was donated to US Steel Corporation and has since been re-erected at the entrance to the company's Edgar Thomson Works.\n\nIn downtown Pittsburgh the 300 Sixth Avenue Building displays a polychrome frieze of Magarac, and the garden adjacent to the Children's Museum of Pittsburgh hosts sculptures of Magarac and other figures, designed by sculptor Charles Keck and rescued from the Manchester Bridge when it was razed in 1970.\n\nOne version of the Magarac story was recorded in song by The New Christy Minstrels on their 1964 Columbia Records release \"Land of Giants\": \"We're gonna build a railroad down to Frisco and back, and way down to Mexico. Who's gonna make the steel for that track? It's Joe... Magarac.\" \n\nA large statue of Joe Magarac pouring molten steel is a prominent landmark in the city of Steelport in \"\". The statue is also highlighted in \"Saints Row IV\" as a weapon which the player uses to fight a giant energy drink mascot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12051022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12051022", "title": "Jonas Ekfeldt", "text": "Jonas Ekfeldt\n\nJonas Ekfeldt is a Swedish music producer and singer. In 1996, using the name Robin Cook, he released the single \"I Won't Let the Sun Go Down\" (a cover of Nik Kershaw's debut \"I Won't Let the Sun Go Down on Me\") followed by \"Comanchero\" and the album \"Land of Sunshine\" in 1997.\n\nEkfeldt sang and produced \"I Won't Let the Sun Go Down\" and all subsequent releases under the name Robin Cook, but appointed Manuel Manci to front and perform, thinking he himself lacked time. The truth of who really was the singer was kept secret until Swedish newspaper \"Aftonbladet\" ran an article in 2002. Yet another single was released in 2002 under the name Robin Cook, titled \"Susanna\" with Ekfeldt on the cover.\n\nEkfeldt filed a lawsuit against, and won over, Sveriges Radio for sampling \"I Won't Let the Sun Go Down\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16179", "title": "July 21", "text": "July 21\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19279145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19279145", "title": "June 4", "text": "June 4\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42617282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42617282", "title": "Kimito Island Music Festival", "text": "Kimito Island Music Festival\n\nThe Kimito Island Music Festival (; ) is a chamber music festival that is held annually on Kimito Island in mid-July. The event features artists from Finland and abroad with a program ranging from classical to contemporary. The festival was founded in 1999 by pianist Martti Rautio and violinist Katinka Korkeala. Katinka works as an artistic director. The position is shared by her twin sister, violinist Sonja Korkeala, since 2008. The executive director has been Jukka Mäkelä since 2009.\n\nAmong other performances, the festivals annually feature a premiere of a piece commissioned for the event by Finnish composers. Commissioned pieces have included works by Aulis Sallinen, Kalevi Aho, Jouni Kaipainen and Einojuhani Rautavaara.\n\nThe concert venues of the festival are medieval churches in Kimito and Sauvo, and smaller churches in Hiittinen, Dragsfjärd, Västanfjärd and Karuna. Other concert venues are the Söderlångvik manor house, which belonged to the Finnish patron Amos Anderson, the Sandö Manor House and the Salo Art Museum. Lunch and dinner concerts are held in The Westers Garden and Labbnäs Vacation Home.\n\nKimito Island Music Festival is a member of Finland Festivals.\n"}
{"id": "62636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62636", "title": "Lidice massacre", "text": "Lidice massacre\n\nIn World War II, in Nazi-occupied Czechoslovakia, the Lidice massacre was a complete destruction of the village of Lidice, in the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, now in the Czech Republic, in June 1942 on orders from Adolf Hitler and \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler. \n\nIn reprisal for the assassination of Reich Protector Reinhard Heydrich in the late spring of 1942, all 173 males over 15 years of age from the village were executed on 10 June 1942. Another 11 men who were not in the village were arrested and executed soon afterwards, along with several others already under arrest. The 184 women and 88 children were deported to concentration camps; a few children considered racially suitable for Germanisation were handed over to SS families and the rest were sent to the Chełmno extermination camp where they were gassed to death. \n\nThe Associated Press, quoting German radio received in New York, said: \"All male grownups of the town were shot, while the women were placed in a concentration camp, and the children were entrusted to appropriate educational institutions.\" About 340 people from Lidice died because of the German reprisal (192 men, 60 women and 88 children) and after the war ended, only 153 women and 17 children returned.\n\nFrom 27 September 1941, SS-\"Obergruppenführer\" and General of Police Reinhard Heydrich had been Acting \"Reichsprotektor\" of the Nazi Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. This area of the former Czechoslovakia had been occupied by Nazi Germany since 5 April 1939.\n\nOn the morning of 27 May 1942, Heydrich was being driven from his country villa at Panenské Břežany to his office at Prague Castle. When he reached the Kobylisy area of Prague, his car was attacked (on behalf of the Czechoslovak government-in-exile) by the Slovak and Czech soldiers Jozef Gabčík and Jan Kubiš. These men, who had been part of a team trained in Great Britain, had parachuted into Bohemia in December 1941 as part of Operation Anthropoid. \n\nAfter Gabčík's Sten gun jammed, Heydrich ordered his driver, SS-\"Oberscharführer\" Klein, to stop the car. When Heydrich stood up to shoot Gabčík, Kubiš threw a modified anti-tank grenade at Heydrich's car. The explosion wounded Heydrich and Kubiš. Heydrich sent his driver, Klein, to chase Gabčík on foot and in an exchange of fire, Gabčík shot Klein in the leg, below the knee. Kubiš and Gabčík managed to escape the scene. On 4 June Heydrich, having refused to be operated on by non-Germans, died in Bulovka Hospital in Prague from septicaemia caused by pieces of upholstery and his clothing entering his body when the bomb exploded.\n\nLate in the afternoon of 27 May, SS-\"Gruppenführer\" Karl Hermann Frank proclaimed a state of emergency and a curfew in Prague. Anyone who helped the attackers was to be executed along with their family. A search involving 21,000 men began and 36,000 houses were checked. By 4 June, 157 people had been executed as a result of the reprisals but the assassins had not been found and no information was forthcoming.\n\nThe mourning speeches at Heydrich's funeral in Berlin were not yet over, when on 9 June, the decision was made to \"make up for his death\". Karl Hermann Frank, Secretary of State for the Nazi Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, reported from Berlin that the \"Führer\" had commanded the following concerning any village found to have harboured Heydrich's killers:\n\n\nHorst Böhme, the SiPo chief for the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, immediately acted on the orders. Members of the \"Ordnungspolizei\" and SD (\"Sicherheitsdienst\") surrounded the village of Lidice, blocking all avenues of escape. The Nazi regime chose this village because its residents were suspected of harbouring local resistance partisans and were falsely associated with aiding Operation Anthropoid team members.\nAll men of the village were rounded up and taken to the farm of the Horák family on the edge of the village. Mattresses were taken from neighbouring houses where they were stood up against the wall of the Horáks' barn to prevent ricochets. The shooting of the men commenced at about 7.00 am. At first the men were shot in groups of five, but Böhme thought the executions were proceeding too slowly and ordered that ten men be shot at a time. The dead were left lying where they fell. This continued until the afternoon hours when there were 173 dead. Another 11 men who were not in the village that day were arrested and murdered soon afterwards as were eight men and seven women already under arrest because they had relations serving with the Czech army in exile in the United Kingdom. The only adult man who survived this tragedy was František Saidl (1887–1961), who had been arrested at the end of 1938, because on 19 December 1938 he accidentally killed his son Eduard Saidl. He was imprisoned for four years and had no idea about this massacre. He found out when he returned home on 23 December 1942.\n\nA total of 203 women and 105 children were first taken to Lidice village school, then the nearby town of Kladno and detained in the grammar school for three days. The children were separated from their mothers and four pregnant women were sent to the same hospital where Heydrich died, forced to undergo abortions and then sent to different concentration camps. On 12 June 1942, 184 women of Lidice were loaded on trucks, driven to Kladno railway station and forced into a special passenger train guarded by an escort. On the morning of 14 June, the train halted on a railway siding at the concentration camp at Ravensbrück. The camp authorities tried to keep the Lidice women isolated, but were prevented from doing so by other inmates. The women were forced to work in leather processing, road building, textile and ammunition factories.\n\nEighty-eight Lidice children were transported to the area of the former textile factory in Gneisenau Street in Łódź. Their arrival was announced by a telegram from Horst Böhme's Prague office which ended with: \"the children are only bringing what they wear. No special care is desirable.\" The care was minimal and they suffered from a lack of hygiene and from illnesses. By order of the camp management, no medical care was given to the children. Shortly after their arrival in Łódź, officials from the Central Race and Settlement branch chose seven children for Germanisation. The few children considered racially suitable for Germanisation were handed over to SS families.\n\nThe furore over Lidice caused some hesitation over the fate of the remaining children but in late June Adolf Eichmann ordered the massacre of the remainder of the children. However Eichmann was not convicted of this crime at his trial in Jerusalem, as the judges deemed that \"... it has not been proved to us beyond reasonable doubt, according to the evidence before us, that they were murdered.\" On 2 July, all of the remaining 82 Lidice children were handed over to the Łódź Gestapo office, who sent them to the Chelmno extermination camp away, where they were gassed to death in Magirus gas vans. Out of the 105 Lidice children, 82 died in Chełmno, six died in the German Lebensborn orphanages and 17 returned home.\n\nThe village was set on fire and the remains of the buildings destroyed with explosives. All the animals in the village—pets and beasts of burden—were slaughtered as well. Even those buried in the town cemetery were not spared; their remains were dug up, looted for gold fillings and jewellery, and destroyed. A 100-strong German work party was then sent in to remove all visible remains of the village, re-route the stream running through it and the roads in and out. They then covered the entire area the village had occupied with topsoil and planted crops. A film was made of the process by Franz Treml, a collaborator with German intelligence. Treml had run a Zeiss-Ikon shop in Lucerna Palace in Prague and after the Nazi occupation, he became a film adviser for the Nazi Party.\n\nThe small Czech village of Ležáky was destroyed two weeks after Lidice after Gestapo agents found a radio transmitter there of an underground team who parachuted in with Kubiš and Gabčík. Men and women of the village were shot and the children were sent to concentration camps or \"Aryanised\". The death toll resulting from the effort to avenge the death of Heydrich is estimated at over 1,300 people. This count includes relatives of the partisans, their supporters, Czech elites suspected of disloyalty and random victims like those from Lidice.\n\nNazi propaganda had openly, and proudly, announced the events in Lidice, unlike other massacres in occupied Europe which were kept secret. The information was instantly picked up by Allied media. In September 1942, coal miners in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire in Great Britain led by Barnett Stross, a doctor, who in 1945 became a local MP, founded the organisation \"Lidice Shall Live\" to raise funds for the rebuilding of the village after the war.\n\nSoon after the razing of the village, towns in various countries were renamed, San Jerónimo Lídice in Mexico City, Barrio Lídice and its hospital in Caracas, Venezuela, Lídice de Capira in Panama and towns in Brazil so that the name would live on in spite of Hitler's intentions. A neighbourhood in Crest Hill, Illinois was renamed from Stern Park to Lidice. There is a shrine at Lidice park on Prairie Avenue in Crest Hill; the original shrine was at the end of Kelly Avenue at Elsie Street. A square in the English city of Coventry, devastated by Luftwaffe bombing, is named after Lidice. An alley in a very crowded area of downtown Santiago, Chile is named after Lidice and one of the buildings has a small plaque that explains its tragic story. A street in Sofia, Bulgaria is named to commemorate the massacre and the Lidice Memorial in Phillips, Wisconsin was built in memory of the village.\n\nIn the wake of the massacre, Humphrey Jennings directed \"The Silent Village\" (1943), using amateur actors from a Welsh mining village, Cwmgiedd, near the small South Wales town of Ystradgynlais. An American film was made in 1943 called \"Hitler's Madman\" but it contained a number of inaccuracies in the story. A more accurate British film, \"Operation Daybreak\", starring Timothy Bottoms as Kubiš, Martin Shaw as Čurda and Anthony Andrews as Gabčík, was released in 1975.\n\nAmerican poet Edna St. Vincent Millay wrote a book-length verse play on the massacre, \"The Murder of Lidice\", which was excerpted in the 17 October 1942, edition of \"Saturday Review\", a larger version of which was published in the 19 October 1942 \"Life\" magazine, and published in full as a book later that year by Harper.\n\nIn 2010, the connections between Lidice and Stoke-on-Trent were brought to new generations as Artbay owner Alan Gerrard discovered and championed the story of Barnett Stross while researching the history of mining in North Staffordshire. A commemoration service was organised by Fentonians Alan Gerrard, Cheryl Gerrard, Glenn Parkes and others at Fenton Cenotaph on 10 June 2011. This was covered as an international live radio broadcast by local community radio station 6 Towns Radio. In 2013, \"Lidice – A Light Across The Sea\", a documentary film project featuring the story of Lidice and its link to Stoke-on-Trent, was made by Staffordshire firm Inspired Film and Video. The research carried out by Alan Gerrard was shared with the film's makers, and it featured original compositions by music students at Keele University.\n\nIn the month of June, 2017, in order to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the Lidice massacre, Vic Carnall - Stoke-on-Trent-based violinist, pianist, and composer, and, also, Founder and present-day Chairperson of VJ Concerts - wrote his Opus 17, for solo piano. A copy of this original work, entitled \"In Memoriam: the Village of Lidice (Czechoslovakia / June, 1942)\", now resides in the Lidice Memorial archives.\n\nThere is a memorial sculpture and small information panel commemorating the Lidice massacre, in Wallanlagen Park in Bremen, Germany.\n\nCzech composer Bohuslav Martinů composed his \"Memorial to Lidice\" (an 8-minute orchestral work) in 1943 as a response to the massacre. The piece quotes from the Czech \"St Wenceslas Chorale\" and in the climax of the piece, the opening notes (dot-dot-dot-dash = \"V\" in Morse code) of Beethoven's 5th Symphony.\n\nWomen from Lidice who survived imprisonment at Ravensbrück returned after the Second World War and were rehoused in the new village of Lidice that was built overlooking the original site. The first part of the new village was completed in 1949. Two men from Lidice were in the United Kingdom serving in the Royal Air Force at the time of the massacre. After 1945 Pilot Officer Josef Horák and Flight Lieutenant Josef Stříbrný returned to Czechoslovakia to serve in the Czechoslovak Air Force. \n\nAfter the Czechoslovak coup d'état of 1948 the new Communist government would not allow them to apply to be housed in the new Lidice, because they had served in the forces of one of the western powers. Horák and his family returned to Britain and the RAF; he died in a flying accident in December 1948.\n\nA sculpture from the 1990s by Marie Uchytilová, overlooks the site of the old village of Lidice. Entitled \"The Memorial to the Children Victims of the War\" it comprises 82 bronze statues of children (42 girls and 40 boys) aged 1 to 16, to honour the children who were murdered at Chełmno in the summer of 1942. A cross with a crown of thorns marks the mass grave of the Lidice men. Overlooking the site is a memorial area flanked by a museum and a small exhibition hall. The memorial area is linked to the new village by an avenue of linden trees. In 1955 a \"Rosarium\" of 29,000 rose bushes was created beside the avenue of lindens overlooking the site of the old village. In the 1990s the Rosarium was neglected but after 2001 a new Rosarium with 21,000 bushes was created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1974988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1974988", "title": "List of Holocaust survivors", "text": "List of Holocaust survivors\n\nThe people on this list are or were survivors of Nazi Germany's attempt to exterminate the Jews in Europe before and during World War II. A state-enforced persecution of Jews in Nazi-controlled Europe lasted from the introduction of the Nuremberg Laws in 1933 to Hitler's defeat in 1945. Although there were many victims of the Holocaust, the \"International Commission on Holocaust Era Insurance Claims\" (ICHEIC) defines a Holocaust survivor as, \"Any Jew who lived for any period of time in a country that was ruled by the Nazis or their allies.\"\nThe United States Holocaust Museum (USHMM) gives a broader definition \"The Museum honors as a survivor any person who was displaced, persecuted, and/or discriminated against by the racial, religious, ethnic, social, and/or political policies of the Nazis and their allies between 1933 and 1945. In addition to former inmates of concentration camps and ghettos, this also includes refugees and people in hiding.\" Most notably, as well as Jews, this includes Romani people (Gypsies), those who were persecuted for political reasons such as Communists, those who were persecuted for religious reasons (such as Pastor Niemoller), and homosexuals (gays) and those of other sexual orientations. It includes those who were actually in hiding in Nazi-occupied countries. The latter includes Hidden Children, who were hidden to escape the Nazis.\n\nMost especially, in contrast to the ICHEIC definition, it includes refugees, who fled from their homeland to escape the Nazis, and never lived in a Nazi-controlled country.\n\nThe ICHEIC definition was created for the purpose of resolving some insurance claims. Over time, the classes of insurance claims have greatly expanded.\n\nThis list does not include refugees, since it is created on the basis of the restricted ICHEIC definition. There were many many eminent refugees (too many to mention). Refugees include the unaccompanied children of the Kindertransport, which includes Physics Nobel Laureate Arno Allan Penzias. Refugees also include the unaccompanied One Thousand Children, which includes Physics Nobel Laureate Jack Steinberger. (Somewhat inconsistently the refugee Kindertransport Nobel Laureate Walter Kohn, a Nobel Laureate in chemistry, is listed below.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53617296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53617296", "title": "List of entertainment events at the United Center", "text": "List of entertainment events at the United Center\n\nSince its opening in 1994, the United Center in Chicago, Illinois, has hosted many local, regional and international artists, spanning a wide range of musical genres. A list of notable concerts are given in the table below, with other non-concert entertainment events also included. All events are arranged in a chronological order.\n\n"}
{"id": "38554935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38554935", "title": "List of years in anthropology", "text": "List of years in anthropology\n\nThe following entries cover events related to the study of anthropology which occurred in the listed year.\n\n1870-1879<BR>\n1880-1889<BR>\n1890-1899<BR>\n1900-1909<BR>\n1910-1919<BR>\n1920-1929<BR>\n1930-1939<BR>\n1940-1949<BR>\n1950-1959<BR>\n1960-1969<BR>\n1970-1979<BR>\n1980-1989<BR>\n1990-1999\n\n2000-2009<BR>\n2010-2019\n\n\nPlease see the page for formatting standards.\n"}
{"id": "44217980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44217980", "title": "Lund and Browder chart", "text": "Lund and Browder chart\n\nUnlike the Wallace rule of nines, the Lund and Browder chart takes into consideration of age of the person, with decreasing percentage BSA for the head and increasing percentage BSA for the legs as the child ages, making it more useful in pediatric burns.\n"}
{"id": "55170384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55170384", "title": "Miss Diva - 2017", "text": "Miss Diva - 2017\n\nThe 5th edition of Miss Diva took place on October 11, 2017. The top 15 contestants selected from all over the country competed in the pageant. \n\nAll contestants were mentored by Miss Universe 2000 Lara Dutta . Throughout the 6-episodic reality series there were a series of challenges wherein the contestants were given scores. At the end of the 5th episode the 3 contestants with the 3 lowest scores were eliminated and the remaining 12 contestants advanced to the finale which was the 6th episode.\n\nAt the finale held on 11 October 2017, Roshmitha Harimurthy along with the reigning Miss Universe 2016 Iris Mittenaere crowned Shraddha Shashidhar as Miss Universe India 2017 , while Srinidhi Shetty crowned Peden Ongmu as Miss Supranational India 2017 and Aradhana Buragohain crowned Apeksha Porwal as Miss Diva 2017 2nd runner up. The three winners represented India at Miss Universe 2017, Miss Supranational 2017.\n\n\nMiss Diva\nFemina Miss India\nMiss Earth India\n\n"}
{"id": "14960206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14960206", "title": "Opéra-Théâtre de Metz Métropole", "text": "Opéra-Théâtre de Metz Métropole\n\nThe Opéra-Théâtre de Metz Métropole is a 750-seat opera house and theatre located on the Petit-Saulcy island in Metz, capital of the Lorraine region, France. It is the oldest opera house working in France and one of the oldest in Europe. It is also one of the last possessing its own costume ateliers in France.\n\nIn 1732, Duke de Belle-Isle, governor of the Three Bishoprics and benefactor of Metz, decided the urban planning of the Petit-Saulcy island (then used to stock firewoods, and occasionally for horse-fairs), in order built in Metz a modern square in a context of the Enlightenment. The island was drained and the embankments and four bridges were built, connecting the medieval town to the island. The edification of the opera house was conducted by Messin architect Jacques Oger. Adjacent to the opera house, the urban planning included also the construction of the Royal Intendant palace by architect Barthélemy Bourdet.\n\nThe construction of the opera house extended from 1732 to 1752, the War of the Austrian Succession interrupting the works during 8 years. The Tuscany-influenced neo-Classical building is finally inaugurated with a public ball on February 3, 1752. The duke of Belle-Isle described it as \"one of the most beautiful France's opera-theater\" at his time, seating 1,382.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, the guillotine for the executions was erected on the parvise of the opera house, the Comedy Square. In 1858, local sculptor Charles Pêtre, then member of the School of Metz artistic movement, adorned its facade with allegories of the Tragedy, the Inspiration, the Lyric Poetry, the Comedy, and the Music. The most recent restoration took place between 1981 and 1982 remodeling the interior of the opera house to improve comfort and sightlines. The performance hall had been reduced to 750 seats in 1963.\n\nIn the few years after its inauguration it staged several plays from the classic repertoire of the time, including those by Racine, Pierre Corneille, and Molière, whereas towards the end of the ancien regime more contemporary plays by Voltaire, Marivaux, Diderot, and Beaumarchais. As far as opera was concerned, opéra comiques by Grétry, and Montsigny were staged, as well as operas of Jean-Baptiste Lully.\n\nNineteenth century performances represented the work of both the major dramatists of the era (e.g., \"Hernani\" by Victor Hugo appearing just after its Paris premiere) and the major opera composers such as Weber, Vincenzo Bellini, and Donizetti, as well as the grand operas of Meyerbeer, Fromental Halévy, and Daniel Auber. During the season 1894-95, the theatre was presenting 187 events, of which 135 were in French and 52 in German.\n\nThe Metz Opera-Theater is fused in a unique Lorraine artistic pole with the National Opera of Lorraine. Today, the Opera-Theater features annually around sixty performances, including plays, choreographies, and lyric poetry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35159533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35159533", "title": "Phulpati dance", "text": "Phulpati dance\n\nPhulpati Dance is performed in Malwa region of India. This dance is performed by unmarried girls. It is performed on the occasion of Holi.\n"}
{"id": "50180408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50180408", "title": "Seascape with Sharks and Dancer", "text": "Seascape with Sharks and Dancer\n\nSeascape with Sharks and Dancer is a 1974 play by Don Nigro. The story focuses on a young man, Ben, who saves a young woman named Tracy from the ocean outside his beach house. The struggle between his more tolerant approach to life and her fear of human relationships becomes the main conflict in the play.\n\nThis fine work in the Pendragon cycle of plays enjoyed a sold out, critically acclaimed production at the world famous Oregon Shakespeare Festival. It was originally produced at the Theatre Barn at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst, in the spring of 1974, directed by Marya Bednerik. \n\nThe play begins on the night librarian/aspiring writer Ben rescues a beautiful naked woman, Tracy, from the ocean and brings her into his Cape Cod beach house to recuperate. Tracy claims it was not a suicide attempt but that she was dancing in the ocean. Ben doubts this but does his best to take care of her. Soon the two find that they have conflicting personalities, but try to work through them and gradually get closer to one another. Ben is fascinated and amused by her feisty behavior and eccentric sense of humor and falls for her. Tracy's first impulse is to break their connection, out of fear of the pain of loving someone and then inevitably losing them. As the story continues we see them struggling to find a way to save their difficult relationship, which is constantly threatened by Tracy's serious trust issues. After a crisis involving the possibility of an unexpected pregnancy, Tracy is finally able to reveal the origins of her fear of attachment in her childhood horror at the meaningless suffering of innocent creatures. The indifference of the universe to the suffering of the innocent is embodied for her in the eyes of the sharks in the ocean. The relationship with Ben has brought to the surface all of her deepest anxieties and fears. \n\n\"Seascape With Sharks and Dancer\" looks at love and trust in a very unconventional way. Although Ben and Tracy care about each other, and Ben outwardly shows his love for Tracy, past events in her life make it difficult for her to trust him. She is constantly torn between her need for love and her fear of the pain it causes. In finally trusting Ben enough to open up to him and share her deepest and most secret fears, she's taken an important step towards creating a lasting relationship with him. But whether any trust between men and women is actually possible remains, at the end of the play, an open question. \n\n"}
{"id": "277469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277469", "title": "Spring Racing Carnival", "text": "Spring Racing Carnival\n\nThe Spring Racing Carnival is the name of an Australian Thoroughbred horse racing series held annually in Melbourne during October and November.\n\nAlthough racing in Australia is held every day except Christmas Day, the Group One races in Melbourne are held almost exclusively throughout the carnival, which is traditionally placed between the football and cricket seasons. During the winter (where football is dominant), and summer (where cricket is dominant), racing takes a 'back seat' position in relation to the cricket or football in terms of media coverage and attendances. However, in spring and autumn, the mass media turns its attention to the racing. There is also an Autumn Racing Carnival, a time where Group One races are also held.\n\nThe carnival, and particularly the Melbourne Cup attracts the interest of many people otherwise uninterested in horse racing, and special forms of very low-stake gambling are often used for this event. One common form for groups such as office staff is the \"sweep\", where each participant adds a small fee to a \"pot\" and draws the name of a horse like a raffle. Prize money is distributed to the person who draws the winning horse (occasionally smaller prizes are awarded to placegetters and the last-placing horse). A more complex and high-stakes form of the sweep is the \"Calcutta\", often held as a fundraising event for community organisations, which begins as in the sweep (though usually with a much higher initial stake), but which allows ticket holders to trade their tickets through an auction system.\n\nFor the fashion part of the Spring Racing Carnival many special judges have come to the races.\n2003: Paris Hilton\n2004: Carson Kressley\n2005: Eva Longoria\n2006: Andrea Bowen\n2007: Carson Kressley\n\nThe Spring Racing Carnival is made up of meetings held by the metropolitan clubs, where Group One races take place, and also at Geelong and Bendigo. With numerous group races during August and September at metropolitan tracks Flemington, Caulfield and Moonee Valley, the Spring Racing Carnival officially starts on the Group 1 Turnbull Stakes Day at Flemington, one week after the AFL Grand Final. The Spring Racing Carnival officially ends on the final day of the Sandown Carnival, Eclipse Stakes day.\n\nThe Melbourne Racing Club holds three race meetings at Caulfield Racecourse, each with major Group one races.\n\nThe Geelong Racing Club hosts its Group 3 Geelong Cup on the Wednesday between the Caulfield Cup and Cox Plate. The meeting also has a couple of Listed races, The 3YO Geelong Classic and The Rosemont Stud Stakes. The day is a public holiday in Geelong's metropolitan area.\n\nThe Moonee Valley Racing Club holds a two-day carnival. The Manikato Stakes is held on the Friday night following the Caulfield Cup. \nThe club's highlight is the Weight for Age Cox Plate race held on the next day with a host of other Group races including the Moonee Valley Gold Cup.\n\nThe Bendigo Jockey Club hosts its Group 3 Bendigo Cup on the Wednesday between the Cox Plate and the VRC Derby Day.\n\nThe Victoria Racing Club's meetings attract the most attention from the media and the wider community.\n\nThe Melbourne Racing Club holds the last official meeting of the Spring Racing Carnival at Sandown Racecourse. This day includes the Group 2 Sandown Classic and the Group 3 Eclipse Stakes and occurs in mid November.\n\n"}
{"id": "1652241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1652241", "title": "Summer services", "text": "Summer services\n\nSummer services (, , ) is the annual meeting of the Finnish Lutheran movement known as Conservative Laestadians. In addition to the primary Finnish gathering, similar meetings are arranged in North America, Sweden and Russia.\n\nSummer services (Finnish: Suviseurat) is a large gathering of Laestadians in Finland. The event occurs every year at the end of June. It is organized and hosted by a Finnish Conservative Laestadianism association known as the Suomen rauhanyhdistysten keskusyhdistys (SRK). Summer services are among the most visited Finnish summer festivals and the largest spiritual meeting. Summer services are attended by tens of thousands of visitors from Finland, Russia, Estonia, Sweden, Norway, United States, Canada and many other countries. The number of visitors reaches its peak usually on Saturday night, when the services have 80,000 simultaneous visitors.\n\nSummer services take place over the course of four days, usually a Friday through Monday. The program consist mainly of sermons, hymns and songs of Zion. The Summer services areas is about 100 hectares (270 acres). The size of the event requires the need for loudspeakers to carry sermons to all of the listeners. On Saturday Holy Communion is offered and in the evening there is a presentation which is mainly for younger listeners. A gathering for pastors is also held during the Summer services.\n\nThe Summer Services take place in a different location every year. 2019 summer services in Muhos are 111th in order. Services were held in for the first time in 1906 with Oulu being the host city.\n\nRecently, sermons have been broadcast via the Internet into many languages.\n\n\nSummer services in North America are arranged by members of the Laestadian Lutheran Church.\n\nThey take place every year during the first weekend of July. They are mostly attended by North American guests, but some guests come from Finland, Ecuador, Togo, and elsewhere.\n\nThe service schedule consists of devotional speeches and Songs and Hymns of Zion. The purpose of the services is to invite all people to hear the Word of God. The core of the proclamation is the message of Jesus as the redeemer of sins and the call to repentance.\n\n"}
{"id": "56390513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56390513", "title": "Super Bowl LVII", "text": "Super Bowl LVII\n\nSuper Bowl LVII, the 57th Super Bowl and the 53rd modern-era National Football League (NFL) championship game, will decide the league champion for the 2022 NFL season. The game is scheduled to be played on February 5, 2023 at State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Arizona (with the exact date pending potential changes to the NFL calendar). It will be the fourth Super Bowl hosted by the Phoenix metropolitan area, with the last one being Super Bowl XLIX in 2015, also held at State Farm Stadium (then University of Phoenix Stadium). The game will be televised nationally by Fox.\n\nA new process was introduced to select hosting sites for the Super Bowl, which began with Super Bowl LVI. The previous process that allowed teams to submit bids for the hosting rights was discarded. In its place, the league unilaterally chooses a single hosting site for each game, not allowing other teams to bid; the chosen team then puts together a proposal that is voted upon at the league's owner's meetings.\n\nArizona was the first team chosen under this process; its proposal was accepted unanimously on May 23, 2018.\n\nSuper Bowl LVII will be broadcast by Fox, as part of the annual cycle between the three main broadcast television partners of the NFL. It is the last game in the league's current television contracts.\n"}
{"id": "24872888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24872888", "title": "Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo", "text": "Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo\n\nThe Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo (often written as Teatro SS. Giovanni e Paolo) was a theatre and opera house in Venice located on the Calle della Testa, and takes its name from the nearby Basilica of Santi Giovanni e Paolo, Venice. Built by the Grimani family in 1638, in its heyday it was considered the most beautiful and comfortable theatre in the city. The theatre played an important role in the development of opera and saw the premieres of several works by Francesco Cavalli, as well as Monteverdi's \"Il ritorno d'Ulisse in patria\" and \"L'incoronazione di Poppea\".\n\nThe Grimani family originally built the theatre as a wooden structure on the Fondamenta Nuove around 1635. It was then rebuilt on a grander scale using both stone and wood in 1638 when it moved to the nearby Calle della Testa. It was built primarily for the performance of spoken drama, but from the very beginning operas were also performed there. In fact, the new theatre was inaugurated on 20 January 1639 with the premiere performance of Francesco Manelli's opera \"La Delia o sia La sera sposa del sole\". The librettist of \"La delia\", Giulio Strozzi, became primarily based at the nearby Teatro Novissimo but returned to SS. Giovanni e Paolo for the 1642–1643 season, bringing with him the singers Barbara Strozzi and Anna Renzi (who sang Ottavia in the premiere of \"L'incoronazione di Poppea\") and the pioneering set designer Giacomo Torelli. According to Rosand, it may have been at Santi Giovanni e Paolo that Torelli developed his machinery for changing several sets simultaneously. \n\nIn 1654 the theatre was remodelled specifically as an opera house by the architect Carlo Fontana in one of his earliest commissions, and became the first fully developed horseshoe-shaped opera house in Italy, a design which remained essentially unchanged for over two centuries. Its magnificent interior could seat about 900 people with five tiers of boxes and additional seating on the U-shaped floor (or \"platea\") in front of the stage. The theatre was described in 1663 by an observer as having:\n\n...marvellous scene changes, majestic and grand appearances [of performers] ... and a magnificent flying machine; you see, as if commonplace, glorious heavens, deities, seas, royal palaces, woods, forests...\n\nMarco Faustini became the theatre's impresario in 1660, and for the next fifteen years the Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo and the Teatro di San Salvatore a San Luca (owned by the Vendramin family) were to be the dominant opera houses in Venice, each putting on two new operas every year.\n\nBy 1700, the Grimani family had built two more theatres in Venice, the Teatro San Samuele and the Teatro San Giovanni Grisostomo. An economic crisis made the Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo increasingly difficult to maintain, and it finally closed in 1715.\n\nOperas which had their first public performance at the theatre include:\n\nOpera houses and theatres in Venice\n"}
{"id": "91195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91195", "title": "The Championships, Wimbledon", "text": "The Championships, Wimbledon\n\nThe Championships, Wimbledon, commonly known simply as Wimbledon, is the oldest tennis tournament in the world, and is widely regarded as the most prestigious. It has been held at the All England Club in Wimbledon, London, since 1877 and is played on outdoor grass courts.\n\nWimbledon is one of the four Grand Slam tennis tournaments, the others being the Australian Open, the French Open and the US Open. Since the Australian Open shifted to hardcourt in 1988, Wimbledon is the only major still played on grass.\n\nThe tournament traditionally took place over two weeks in late June and early July, starting on the last Monday in June and culminating with the Ladies' and Gentlemen's Singles Finals, scheduled for the Saturday and Sunday at the end of the second week. However recent changes to the tennis calendar have seen the event moved back by a week to begin in early July. Five major events are held each year, with additional junior and invitational competitions also taking place.\n\nWimbledon traditions include a strict dress code for competitors and Royal patronage. Strawberries and cream is traditionally consumed at the tournament. In 2017, fans consumed 34,000 kg of English strawberries and 10,000 litres of cream. The tournament is also notable for the absence of sponsor advertising around the courts. In 2009, Wimbledon's Centre Court was fitted with a retractable roof to lessen the loss of playing time due to rain.\n\nThe All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club is a private club founded on 23 July 1868, originally as \"The All England Croquet Club\". Its first ground was at Nursery Road off Worple Road, Wimbledon.\n\nIn 1876, lawn tennis, a game devised by Major Walter Clopton Wingfield a year or so earlier as an outdoor version of court tennis and originally given the name \"Sphairistikè\", was added to the activities of the club. In spring 1877, the club was renamed \"The All England Croquet and Lawn Tennis Club\" and signalled its change of name by instituting the first Lawn Tennis Championship. A new code of laws, replacing the code administered by the Marylebone Cricket Club, was drawn up for the event. Today's rules are similar except for details such as the height of the net and posts and the distance of the service line from the net.\n\nThe inaugural 1877 Wimbledon Championship started on 9 July 1877 and the Gentlemen's Singles was the only event held. It was won by Spencer Gore, an old Harrovian rackets player, from a field of 22. About 200 spectators paid one shilling each to watch the final.\n\nThe lawns at the ground were arranged so that the principal court was in the middle with the others arranged around it, hence the title \"Centre Court\". The name was retained when the Club moved in 1922 to the present site in Church Road, although no longer a true description of its location. However, in 1980 four new courts were brought into commission on the north side of the ground, which meant the Centre Court was once more correctly described. The opening of the new No. 1 Court in 1997 emphasised the description.\n\nBy 1882, activity at the club was almost exclusively confined to lawn tennis and that year the word \"croquet\" was dropped from the title. However, for sentimental reasons it was restored in 1899.\n\nIn 1884, the club added Ladies' Singles and Gentlemen's Doubles competitions. Ladies' Doubles and Mixed Doubles events were added in 1913. Until 1922, the reigning champion had to play only in the final, against whomever had won through to challenge him/her. As with the other three \"Major or Grand Slam\" events, Wimbledon was contested by top-ranked amateur players, professional players were prohibited from participating. This changed with the advent of the open era in 1968. No British man won the singles event at Wimbledon between Fred Perry in 1936 and Andy Murray in 2013, while no British woman has won since Virginia Wade in 1977, although Annabel Croft and Laura Robson won the Girls' Championship in 1984 and 2008 respectively. The Championship was first televised in 1937.\n\nThough properly called \"The Championships, Wimbledon\", depending on sources the event is also known as \"The All England Lawn Tennis Championships\", \"The Wimbledon Championships\" or simply \"Wimbledon\". From 1912 to 1924, the tournament was recognized by the International Lawn Tennis Federation as the \"World Grass Court Championships\".\n\nWimbledon is considered the world's premier tennis tournament and the priority of the Club is to maintain its leadership. To that end a long-term plan was unveiled in 1993, intended to improve the quality of the event for spectators, players, officials and neighbours. Stage one (1994–1997) of the plan was completed for the 1997 championships and involved building the new No. 1 Court in Aorangi Park, a broadcast centre, two extra grass courts and a tunnel under the hill linking Church Road and Somerset Road. Stage two (1997–2009) involved the removal of the old No. 1 Court complex to make way for the new Millennium Building, providing extensive facilities for players, press, officials and members, and the extension of the West Stand of the Centre Court with 728 extra seats. Stage three (2000–2011) has been completed with the construction of an entrance building, club staff housing, museum, bank and ticket office.\n\nA new retractable roof was built in time for the 2009 championships, marking the first time that rain did not stop play for a lengthy time on Centre Court. The Club tested the new roof at an event called \"A Centre Court Celebration\" on Sunday, 17 May 2009, which featured exhibition matches involving Andre Agassi, Steffi Graf, Kim Clijsters and Tim Henman. The first Championship match to take place under the roof was the completion of the fourth round women's singles match between Dinara Safina and Amélie Mauresmo. The first match to be played in its entirety under the new roof took place between Andy Murray and Stanislas Wawrinka on 29 June 2009. Murray was also involved in the match completed latest in the day at Wimbledon, which ended at 11:02 pm in a victory over Marcos Baghdatis at Centre Court in the third round of the 2012 Championships. The 2012 Men's Singles Final on 8 July 2012, between Roger Federer and Murray, was the first singles final to be partially played under the roof, which was activated during the third set.\n\nA new 4000-seat No. 2 Court was built on the site of the old No. 13 Court in time for the 2009 Championships. A new 2000-seat No. 3 Court was built on the site of the old No. 2 and No. 3 Courts.\n\nOn 1 August 2011, the All England Club transferred all of its assets relating to The Championships to a separate though wholly owned subsidiary, The All England Lawn Tennis Club (Championships) Limited, also known as AELTC. Since that time, the Club's activities have been conducted separately from those of The Championships.\n\nOn 19 October 2018, it was announced that a tie-break will be played if the score reaches 12–12 in the final set of any match; this will apply to all competitions including in qualifying, singles and doubles. In related statement, it was announced that starting at the 2019 Championships; Quad Wheelchair competitions would become a permanent event.\n\nWimbledon consists of five main events, four junior events and seven invitation events.\n\nThe five main events, and the number of players (or teams, in the case of doubles) are:\n\nThe four junior events and the number of players or teams are:\nNo mixed doubles event is held at this level.\n\nThe seven invitational events and the number of pairs are:\n\nMatches in the Gentlemen's Singles and Gentlemen's Doubles are best-of-five sets; all other events are best-of-three sets. Up to and including the 2018 tournament, a tiebreak game is played if the score reaches 6–6 in any set except the fifth (in a five-set match) or the third (in a three-set match), in which case a two-game lead must be reached. From the 2019 tournament onwards, a final set tiebreak game is played if the score in the final set reaches 12-12.\n\nAll events are single-elimination tournaments, except for the Gentlemen's, Senior Gentlemen's and the Ladies' Invitation Doubles, which are round-robin tournaments.\n\nUntil 1922, the winners of the previous year's competition (except in the Ladies' Doubles and Mixed Doubles) were automatically granted byes into the final round (then known as the challenge round). This led to many winners retaining their titles in successive years, as they were able to rest while their opponent competed from the start of the competition. From 1922, the prior year's champions were required to play all the rounds, like other tournament competitors.\n\nEach year the tournament began on the last Monday in June, two weeks after the Queen's Club Championships, which is one of the men's major warm-up tournaments, together with the Gerry Weber Open, which is held in Halle, Germany, during the same week. It was announced that the 2017 tournament would begin on Monday 3 July. Other grass-court tournaments before Wimbledon are Eastbourne, England, and Rosmalen in the Netherlands, both combining mixed events. The other women's warm-up tournament for Wimbledon is Birmingham, also in England. The only grass-court tournament scheduled after the Championships is the Hall of Fame Tennis Championships at Newport, Rhode Island, USA, which takes place the week after Wimbledon.\n\nWimbledon is scheduled for 14 days, beginning on a Monday and ending on a Sunday. Before 1982 it ended a day earlier, with the women's singles final on the Friday and the men's singles final on the Saturday. The five main events span both weeks, but the junior and invitational events are held mainly during the second week. Traditionally, unlike the other three tennis Grand Slams, there is no play on the \"Middle Sunday\", which is considered a rest day. However, rain has forced play on the Middle Sunday four times, in 1991, 1997, 2004 and 2016. On the first of these four occasions, Wimbledon staged a \"People's Sunday\", with unreserved seating and readily available, inexpensive tickets, allowing those with more limited means to sit on the show courts.\n\nThe second Monday at Wimbledon is often called \"Manic Monday\", because it is the busiest day with the last-16 matches for both men's and women's singles, where fans have a pick of watching on a single day, any of the best 32 players left; which is also unique in a Grand Slam singles competition.\n\nSince 2015, the championships have begun one week later than in previous years, extending the gap between the tournament and the French Open from two to three weeks. Additionally the Stuttgart Open men's tournament converted to a grass surface and was rescheduled from July to June, extending the grass court season.\n\nBoth the men's and ladies' singles consist of 128 players. Players and doubles pairs are admitted to the main events on the basis of their international rankings, with 104 direct entries into the men's and 108 into the ladies' competitions. Both tournaments have 8 wild card entrants, with the remainder in each made up of qualifiers. Since the 2001 tournament, 32 players have been given seedings in the Gentlemen's and Ladies' singles, 16 teams in the doubles events. The system of seeding was introduced during the 1924 Wimbledon Championships. This was a simplified version allowing countries to nominate four players who were placed in different quarters of the draw. This system was replaced for the 1927 Wimbledon Championships and from then on players were seeded on merit. The first players to be seeded as no. 1 were René Lacoste and Helen Wills.\n\nThe Committee of Management decide which players receive wildcards. Usually, wild cards are players who have performed well during previous tournaments or would stimulate public interest in Wimbledon by participating. The only wild card to win the Gentlemen's Singles Championship was Goran Ivanišević in 2001. Players and pairs who neither have high enough rankings nor receive wild cards may participate in a qualifying tournament held one week before Wimbledon at the Bank of England Sports Ground in Roehampton. The singles qualifying competitions are three-round events. From 2019 singles qualification will increase to 128 players and no doubles qualification will occur. Previously the same-sex doubles competitions lasted for only two rounds. There is no qualifying tournament for Mixed Doubles. The furthest that any qualifier has progressed in a Singles tournament is the semi-final round: John McEnroe in 1977 (Gentlemen's Singles), Vladimir Voltchkov in 2000 (Gentlemen's Singles), and Alexandra Stevenson in 1999 (Ladies' Singles).\n\nPlayers are admitted to the junior tournaments upon the recommendations of their national tennis associations, on their International Tennis Federation world rankings and, in the case of the singles events, on the basis of a qualifying competition. The Committee of Management determines which players may enter the four invitational events.\n\nThe Committee seeds the top players and pairs on the basis of their rankings, but it can change the seedings based on a player's previous grass court performance. Since 2002 a seeding committee has not been required for the Gentlemen's Singles following an agreement with the ATP. While the seeds are still the top 32 players according to rankings, the seeding order is determined using the formula: ATP Entry System Position points + 100% points earned for all grass court tournaments in the past 12 months + 75% points earned for the best grass court tournament in the 12 months before that. A majority of the entrants are unseeded. Only two unseeded players have won the Gentlemen's Singles: Boris Becker in 1985 and Goran Ivanišević in 2001. In 1985 there were only 16 seeds and Becker was ranked 20th; Ivanišević was ranked 125th when he won as a Wild Card entrant, although he had previously been a finalist three times, and been ranked no. 2 in the world; his low ranking was due to having been hampered by a persistent shoulder injury for three years, which had only just cleared up. In 1996, the title was won by Richard Krajicek, who was originally unseeded (ranked 17th, and only 16 players were seeded) but was promoted to a seeded position (still with the number 17) when Thomas Muster withdrew before the tournament. No unseeded player has captured the Ladies' Singles title; the lowest seeded female champion was Venus Williams, who won in 2007 as the 23rd seed; Williams was returning from an injury that had prevented her playing in previous tournaments, giving her a lower ranking than she would normally have had. Unseeded pairs have won the doubles titles on numerous occasions; the 2005 Gentlemen's Doubles champions were not only unseeded, but also (for the first time ever) qualifiers.\n\nSince 2001, the courts used for Wimbledon have been sown with 100% perennial ryegrass. Prior to 2001 a combination of 70% ryegrass and 30% Creeping Red Fescue was used. The change was made to improve durability and strengthen the sward to better withstand the increasing wear of the modern game.\n\nThe main show courts, Centre Court and No. 1 Court, are normally used for only two weeks a year, during the Championships, but play can extend into a third week in exceptional circumstances. The remaining 17 courts are regularly used for other events hosted by the Club. The show courts were in action for the second time in three months in 2012 as Wimbledon hosted the tennis events of the 2012 Olympic Games. One of the show courts is also used for home ties of the GB teams in the Davis Cup on occasions.\n\nWimbledon is the only Grand Slam event played on grass courts. At one time, all the Majors, except the French Open, were played on grass. The US Open abandoned grass in 1975 and the Australian Open in 1988.\n\nThe principal court, Centre Court, was opened in 1922 when the Club moved from Worple Road to Church Road. The Church Road venue was larger and was needed to meet the ever-growing public demand.\n\nDue to the possibility of rain during Wimbledon, a retractable roof was installed prior to the 2009 Championship. It is designed to close/open in about 20 minutes and will be closed primarily to protect play from inclement (and, if necessary, extremely hot) weather during The Championships. When the roof is being opened or closed, play is suspended. The first time the roof was closed during a Wimbledon Championship match was on Monday 29 June 2009, involving Amélie Mauresmo and Dinara Safina. The first full match played and completed under the roof featured Andy Murray and Stan Wawrinka, played on the same date. \n\nThe court has a capacity of 15,000. At its south end is the Royal Box, from which members of the Royal Family and other dignitaries watch matches. Centre Court usually hosts the finals and semifinals of the main events, as well as many matches in the earlier rounds involving top-seeded players or local favourites.\n\nThe second most important court is No. 1 Court. The court was constructed in 1997 to replace the old No.1 Court, which was adjacent to Centre Court. The old No.1 Court was demolished because its capacity for spectators was too low. The court was said to have had a unique, more intimate atmosphere and was a favourite of many players. The new No.1 Court has a capacity of approximately 11,000. Construction on a new retractable roof on the No.1 Court began after the 2017 Championships and is set to be completed in 2019. The capacity of the stadium is also set to rise by 900 taking the total capacity up to 12,400.\n\nFrom 2009, a new No. 2 Court is being used at Wimbledon with a capacity for 4,000 people. To obtain planning permission, the playing surface is around 3.5m below ground level, ensuring that the single-storey structure is only about 3.5m above ground level, and thus not affecting local views. Plans to build on the current site of Court 13 were dismissed due to the high capacity of games played at the 2012 Olympic Games. The old No.2 Court has been renamed as No.3 Court. The old No.2 Court was known as the \"Graveyard of Champions\" because many highly seeded players were eliminated there during early rounds over the years, including Ilie Năstase, John McEnroe, Boris Becker, Andre Agassi, Pete Sampras, Martina Hingis, Venus Williams, Serena Williams and Maria Sharapova. The court has a capacity of 2,192 + 770 standing. In 2011 a new No.3 Court and a new Court 4 were unveiled on the sites of the old No.2 and 3 courts.\n\nBecause of the summer climate in southern England, Wimbledon employs 'Court Attendants' each year, who work to maintain court conditions. Their principal responsibility is to ensure that the courts are quickly covered when it begins to rain, so that play can resume as quickly as possible once the referees decide to uncover the courts. The court attendants are mainly university students working to make summer money. Centre Court is covered by full-time groundstaff, however.\n\nAt the northern end of the grounds is a giant television screen on which important matches are broadcast. Fans watch from an area of grass officially known as the Aorangi Terrace. When British players do well at Wimbledon, the hill attracts fans for them, and is often renamed after them by the press: Greg Rusedski's followers convened at \"Rusedski Ridge\", and Tim Henman has had the hill nicknamed Henman Hill. As both of them have now retired and Andy Murray is the number 1 British player, the hill is occasionally referred to as \"Murray Mound\" or \"Murrayfield\", as a reference to his Scottish heritage and the Scottish rugby ground of the same name, but this has largely failed to catch on – the area is still usually referred to as Henman Hill. None of these nicknames are official.\n\nThe qualifying matches, prior to the main draw, take place at the Bank of England Sports Ground, in Roehampton, from the All-England Club.\n\nSocial commentator Ellis Cashmore describes Wimbledon as having \"a David Niven-ish propriety\", conforming to the standards of behaviour common in the 1950s. Writer Peter York sees the event as representing a particular white and affluent type of Britishness, describing the area of Wimbledon as \"a southern, well off, late-Victorian suburb with a particular social character\". Cashmore has criticised the event for being \"remote and insulated\" from the changing multicultural character of modern Britain, describing it as \"nobody's idea of all-things-British\".\n\nIn the championship games, ball boys and girls, known as BBGs, play a crucial role in the smooth running of the tournament, with a brief that a good BBG \"should not be seen. They should blend into the background and get on with their jobs quietly.\"\n\nFrom 1947 ball boys were supplied by Goldings, the only Barnardos school to provide them. Prior to this, from the 1920s onwards, the ball boys had been provided by The Shaftesbury Children's Home.\n\nSince 1969, BBGs have been provided by local schools. As of 2008 they are drawn from schools in the London boroughs of Merton, Sutton, Kingston, and Wandsworth, as well as from Surrey. Traditionally, Wandsworth Boys Grammar School in Sutherland Grove, Southfields and Mayfield Girls School on West Hill in Wandsworth, both now defunct, were the schools of choice for selection of BBGs. This was possibly owing to their proximity to the club. BBGs have an average age of 15, being drawn from the school years nine and ten. BBGs will serve for one, or if re-selected, up to five tournaments, from Year Nine to Year Thirteen.\n\nStarting in 2005, BBGs work in teams of six, two at the net, four at the corners, and teams rotate one hour on court, one hour off, (two hours depending on the court) for the day's play. Teams are not told which court they will be working on the day, to ensure the same standards across all courts. With the expansion of the number of courts, and lengthening the tennis day, as of 2008, the number of BBGs required is around 250. From the second Wednesday, BBGs are told to leave the Championships, leaving around 80 on the final Sunday. Each BBG receives a certificate, a can of used balls, a group photograph and a programme when leaving. BBG service is paid, with a total of £120-£180 being paid to each ball boy\nor girl after the 13-day period depending on the number of days served. Every BBG keeps all of their kit, typically consisting of three or four shirts, two or three shorts or skorts, track suit bottoms and top, twelve pairs of socks, three pairs of wristbands, a hat, water bottle holder, bag and trainers. Along with this it is seen as a privilege, and seen as a valuable addition to a school leaver's curriculum vitae, showing discipline. BBG places are split 50:50 between boys and girls, with girls having been used since 1977, appearing on centre court since 1985.\n\nProspective BBGs are first nominated by their school headteacher, to be considered for selection. To be selected, a candidate must pass written tests on the rules of tennis, and pass fitness, mobility and other suitability tests, against initial preliminary instruction material. Successful candidates then commence a training phase, starting in February, in which the final BBGs are chosen through continual assessment. As of 2008, this training intake was 600. The training includes weekly sessions of physical, procedural and theoretical instruction, to ensure that the BBGs are fast, alert, self-confident and adaptable to situations. As of 2011, early training occurs at the Wimbledon All England Lawn Tennis Club Covered Courts, to the side of the Grounds, and then moves to outside courts (8, 9, 10) the week before the Championships for a feel of the grass court.\n\nDark green and purple are the traditional Wimbledon colours. However, all tennis players participating in the tournament are required to wear all-white or at least almost all-white clothing, a long-time tradition at Wimbledon. Wearing white clothing with some colour accents is also acceptable, provided the colour scheme is not that of an identifiable commercial brand logo (the outfitter's brand logo being the sole exception). Controversy followed Martina Navratilova's wearing branding for \"Kim\" cigarettes in 1982. Green clothing was worn by the chair umpire, linesmen, ball boys and ball girls until the 2005 Championships; however, beginning with the 2006 Championships, officials, ball boys and ball girls were dressed in new navy blue- and cream-coloured uniforms from American designer Ralph Lauren. This marked the first time in the history of the Championships that an outside company was used to design Wimbledon clothing; the contract with Polo Ralph Lauren ended in 2015.\n\nBy tradition, the \"Men's\" and \"Women's\" competitions are referred to as \"Gentlemen's\" and \"Ladies'\" competitions at Wimbledon. The junior competitions are referred to as the \"Boys'\" and \"Girls'\" competitions.\n\nPrior to 2009 female players were referred to by the title \"Miss\" or \"Mrs\" on scoreboards. As dictated by strict rule of etiquette, married female players are referred to by their husbands' names: for example, Chris Evert appeared on scoreboards as \"Mrs. J. M. Lloyd\" during her marriage to John Lloyd, since \"Mrs. X\" essentially designates the wife of X. This tradition has continued at least to some extent. For the first time during the 2009 tournament, players were referred to on scoreboards by both their first and last names.\n\nThe title \"Mr\" is not used for male players who are professionals on scoreboards but the prefix is retained for amateurs, although chair umpires refer to players as \"Mr\" when they use the replay challenge. The chair umpire will say \"Mr <surname> is challenging the call...\" and \"Mr <surname> has X challenges remaining.\" However, the umpires still say Miss/Missus <surname> when announcing the score of the Ladies' matches.\n\nIf a match is being played with two competitors of the same surname (e.g. Venus and Serena Williams, Bob and Mike Bryan), the chair umpire will specify to whom they are referring by stating the player's first name and surname during announcements (e.g. \"Game, Miss Venus Williams\", \"Advantage, Mike Bryan\").\n\nPreviously, players bowed or curtsied to members of the royal family seated in the Royal Box upon entering or leaving Centre Court. However, in 2003, All England Club president Prince Edward, Duke of Kent decided to discontinue the tradition. Now, players are required to bow or curtsy only if The Prince of Wales, or The Queen is present, as was in practice during the 2010 Championships when the Queen was in attendance at Wimbledon on 24 June.\nOn 27 June 2012, Roger Federer said in his post-match interview that he and his opponent had been asked to bow towards the Royal Box as Prince Charles and his wife were present, saying that it wasn't a problem for him.\n\nPrior to the Second World War, members of the Brigade of Guards and retired members of the Royal Artillery performed the role of stewards. In 1946 the AELTC offered employment to wartime servicemen returning to civilian life during their demobilisation leave. Initially, this scheme extended only to the Royal Navy, followed by the Army in 1947 and the Royal Air Force in 1949. In 1965 London Fire Brigade members joined the ranks of stewards. The service stewards, wearing uniform, are present in Centre Court and No.'s 1, 2, 3, 12 and 18 courts. In 2015, 595 Service and London Fire Brigade stewards attended. Only enlisted members of the Armed Forces may apply for the role, which must be taken as leave, and half of each year's recruits must have stewarded at Wimbledon before. The AELTC pays a subsistence allowance to servicemen and women working as stewards to defray their accommodation costs for the period of the Championships. The Service Stewards are not to be confused with the 185 Honorary Stewards.\n\nThe majority of centre and show court tickets sold to the general public have since 1924 been made available by a public ballot that the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club holds at the start of the year. The ballot has always been substantially oversubscribed. Successful applicants are selected at random by a computer. The most recent figures from 2011 suggested there were four applicants to every ballot ticket. Applications must be posted to arrive at the AELTC by the last day of December in the year prior to the tournament. Seats and days are allocated randomly and ballot tickets are not transferrable.\n\nThe All England Club, through its subsidiary The All England Lawn Tennis Ground plc, issues Debentures to tennis fans every five years to raise funds for capital expenditure. Fans who invest thus in the club receive a pair of tickets for every day of the Wimbledon Championships for the five years the investment lasts. Only debenture holders are permitted to sell on their tickets to third parties and demand for debentures has increased in recent years, to such an extent that they are even traded on the London Stock Exchange.\n\nWimbledon and the French Open are the only Grand Slam tournaments where fans without tickets for play can queue up and still get seats on the three show courts on the day of the match. Sequentially numbered queue cards were introduced in 2003. From 2008, there is a single queue, allotted about 500 seats for each court. When they join the queue, fans are handed queue cards. Anyone who then wishes to leave the queue temporarily, even if in possession of a queue card, must agree their position with the others nearby in the queue and/or a steward.\n\nTo get access to the show courts, fans will normally have to queue overnight. This is done by fans from all over the world and, although considered vagrancy, is part of the Wimbledon experience in itself. The All-England Club allows overnight queuing and provides toilet and water facilities for campers. Early in the morning when the line moves towards the Grounds, stewards walk along the line and hand out wristbands that are colour-coded to the specific court. The wrist band (and payment) is exchanged at the ticket office for the ticket when the grounds open. General admission to the grounds gives access to the outer courts and is possible without queuing overnight. Tickets returned by people leaving early go on sale at 2:30 pm and the money goes to charity. Queuing for the show courts ends after the quarter finals have been completed.\n\nAt 2.40pm on Day Seven (Monday 28 June) of the 2010 Championships, the one-millionth numbered Wimbledon queue card was handed out to Rose Stanley from South Africa.\n\nWimbledon is notable for the longest running sponsorship in sports history due to its association with Slazenger who have supplied all tennis balls during the tournament since 1902. Since 1935 Wimbledon has a sponsorship association with the Robinsons fruit drink brand.\n\nUntil 2011 when its contract ended, Radio Wimbledon could be heard within a five-mile radius on 87.7 FM, and also online. It operated under a Restricted Service Licence. Presenters included Sam Lloyd and Ali Barton. Typically they worked alternate four-hour shifts until the end of the last match of the day. Reporters and commentators included Gigi Salmon, Nick Lestor, Rupert Bell, Nigel Bidmead, Guy Swindells, Lucie Ahl, Nadine Towell and Helen Whitaker. Often they reported from the \"Crow's Nest\", an elevated building housing the Court 3 and 4 scoreboards which affords views of most of the outside courts. Regular guests included Sue Mappin. In later years Radio Wimbledon acquired a second low-power FM frequency (within the grounds only) of 96.3 FM for uninterrupted Centre Court commentary, and, from 2006, a third for coverage from No. 1 Court on 97.8 FM. Hourly news bulletins and travel (using RDS) were also broadcast.\n\nBeginning with the 2018 tournament, an in-house operation known as Wimbledon Broadcasting Services (WBS) has served as the official host broadcaster of the tournament, replacing BBC Sport.\n\nSince 1937 the BBC has broadcast the tournament on television in the UK. The matches covered are primarily split between its two main terrestrial channels, BBC One and BBC Two, and their Red Button service. This can result in live matches being moved across all 3 channels. The BBC holds the broadcast rights for Wimbledon until 2024. During the days of British Satellite Broadcasting, its sports channel carried extra coverage of Wimbledon for subscribers. One of the most notable British commentators was Dan Maskell, who was known as the BBC's \"voice of tennis\" until his retirement in 1991. John Barrett succeeded him in that role until he retired in 2006. Current commentators working for the BBC at Wimbledon include British ex-players Andrew Castle, John Lloyd, Tim Henman, Greg Rusedski, Samantha Smith and Mark Petchey; tennis legends such as John McEnroe, Tracy Austin, Boris Becker and Lindsay Davenport; and general sports commentators including David Mercer, Barry Davies, Andrew Cotter and Nick Mullins. The coverage is presented by Sue Barker (live) and Claire Balding (highlights). Previous BBC presenters include Des Lynam, David Vine, John Inverdale and Harry Carpenter.\n\nThe Wimbledon Finals are obliged to be shown live and in full on terrestrial television (BBC Television Service, ITV, Channel 4, or Channel 5) by government mandate. Highlights of the rest of the tournament must be provided by terrestrial stations; live coverage (excepting the finals) may be sought by satellite or cable TV.\n\nThe BBC was forced to apologise after many viewers complained about \"over-talking\" by its commentary team during the TV coverage of the event in 2011. It said in a statement that views on commentary were subjective but that they \"do appreciate that over-talking can irritate our audience\". The BBC added that it hoped it had achieved \"the right balance\" across its coverage and was \"of course sorry if on occasion you have not been satisfied\". Tim Henman and John McEnroe were among the ex-players commentating.\n\nWimbledon was also involved in a piece of television history, when on 1 July 1967 the first official colour television broadcast took place in the UK. Four hours live coverage of the 1967 Championships was shown on BBC Two, which was the first television channel in Europe to regularly broadcast in colour. Footage of that historic match no longer survives, however, the Gentlemen's Final of that year is still held in the BBC archives because it was the first Gentlemen's Final transmitted in colour. Since 2007, Wimbledon matches have been transmitted in high-definition, originally on the BBC's free-to-air channel BBC HD, with continual live coverage during the tournament of Centre Court and Court No. 1 as well as an evening highlights show \"Today at Wimbledon\". Coverage is now shown on BBC One and Two's HD feeds. Beginning 2018, all centre court matches are televised in 4K ultra-high-definition.\n\nThe BBC's opening theme music for Wimbledon was composed by Keith Mansfield and is titled \"Light and Tuneful\". A piece titled \"A Sporting Occasion\" is the traditional closing theme, though nowadays coverage typically ends either with a montage set to a popular song or with no music at all. Mansfield also composed the piece \"World Champion\", used by NBC during intervals (change-overs, set breaks, etc.) and at the close of broadcasts throughout the tournament.\n\nIn Ireland, RTÉ broadcast the tournament during the 1980s and 1990s on their second channel RTÉ Two, they also provided highlights of the games in the evening. The commentary provided was given by Matt Doyle a former Irish-American professional tennis player and Jim Sherwin a former RTÉ newsreader. Caroline Murphy was the presenter of the programme. RTÉ made the decision in 1998 to discontinue broadcasting the tournament due to falling viewing figures and the large number of viewers watching on the BBC. From 2005 until 2014 TG4 Ireland's Irish-language broadcaster provided coverage of the tournament. Live coverage was provided in the Irish language while they broadcast highlights in English at night.\n\nIn 2015 Wimbledon moved to pay TV broadcaster Setanta Sports under a 3-year agreement. Its successor, Eir Sport, currently hosts broadcasting rights in Ireland.\n\nIn the United States, ABC began showing taped highlights of the Wimbledon Gentlemen's Singles Final in the 1960s on its \"Wide World of Sports\" series. NBC began covering Wimbledon in 1969, with same-day taped (and often edited) coverage of the Gentlemen's Singles Final. In 1979, the network began carrying the Gentlemen's and Ladies' Singles Finals live. For the next few decades, Americans made a tradition of NBC's \"Breakfast at Wimbledon\" specials at weekends. Live coverage started early in the morning (the US being a minimum of 5 hours behind the UK) and continued well into the afternoon, interspersed with commentary and interviews from Bud Collins, whose tennis acumen and (in)famous patterned trousers were well known to tennis fans in the US. Collins was sacked by NBC in 2007, but was promptly hired by ESPN, the cable home for The Championships in the States. For many years NBC's primary Wimbledon host was veteran broadcaster Dick Enberg.\n\nFrom 1975 to 1999, premium channel HBO carried weekday coverage of Wimbledon. Hosts included Jim Lampley, Billie Jean King, Martina Navratilova, John Lloyd and Barry MacKay among others.\n\nPreviously, weekday coverage in the United States was exclusively handled by ESPN2 during the tournament's first week. During the tournament's second week it was split between ESPN2 and NBC. ESPN's online service ESPN3 provides full coverage of courts not televised using BBC graphics and commentary. Since the 2012 tournament, all live coverage, including the Finals, has been exclusively on ESPN and ESPN2, marking the second major tennis championship (after the Australian Open) available in the United States exclusively on pay television (although taped highlights from the tournament are presented at weekend afternoons on sister network ABC). Taped coverage using the world feed is aired in primetime and overnights on Tennis Channel and is branded \"Wimbledon Primetime\".\n\nIn Canada, coverage of Wimbledon is exclusively carried by TSN and RDS, which are co-owned by Bell Media and ESPN.\n\nIn Mexico, the Televisa family of networks has aired Wimbledon since the early 1960s. Presently, most weekend matches are broadcast through Canal 5 with the weekday matches broadcast on the Televisa Deportes Network. As Mexico is six hours behind the U.K., some Canal 5 affiliates air the weekend matches as the first program of the day after sign-on. Although Mexico had begun broadcasting in colour in 1962, Wimbledon continued to air in black and white in Mexico until colour television came to the United Kingdom in 1967.\n\nIn most of the remainder of Latin America, Wimbledon airs on ESPN, as do the other Grand Slam tournaments. In Brazil, SporTV has exclusive rights to the broadcast.\n\nIn several European countries, Wimbledon is shown live on Eurosport 1, Eurosport 2 and the Eurosport Player. Although there are some exceptions, as in Denmark, where the Danish channel TV3 Sport and Viaplay, holds the rights to show Wimbledon until 2019. In the Netherlands Center Court is shown live on Eurosport 1 and all other courts are shown live on the Eurosport Player. But Court One is covered live on Ziggo Sport/Ziggo Sport Select.\n\nIn Australia, the free-to-air Nine Network covered Wimbledon for almost 40 years but decided to drop their broadcast following the 2010 tournament, citing declining ratings and desire to use money saved to bid on other sports coverage. In April 2011, it was announced that the Seven Network, the host broadcaster of the Australian Open, along with its sister channel 7Two would broadcast the event from 2011. Pay television network Fox Sports Australia also covers the event. In India and its Subcontinental region, it is broadcast on Star Sports.\n\nCoverage is free-to-air in New Zealand through TVNZ One, beginning each night at 11 pm (midday in London). In 2017 their new channel, TVNZ Duke (also free-to-air), carried an alternative to the main feed, including (for example) matches on outside courts involving New Zealand players.\n\nFox Sports Asia holds broadcasting rights across Southeast Asia.\n\nMost matches are also available for viewing through internet betting websites and other live streaming services, as television cameras are set up to provide continuous coverage on nearly all the courts.\n\nThe Gentlemen's Singles champion is presented with a silver gilt cup 18.5 inches (about 47 cm) in height and 7.5 inches (about 19 cm) in diameter. The trophy has been awarded since 1887 and bears the inscription: \"All England Lawn Tennis Club Single Handed Championship of the World\". The actual trophy remains the property of the All England Club in their museum, so the champion receives a three-quarter size replica of the Cup bearing the names of all past Champions (height 13.5 inches, 34cm).\n\nThe Ladies' Singles champion is presented with a sterling silver salver commonly known as the \"Venus Rosewater Dish\", or simply the \"Rosewater Dish\". The salver, which is 18.75 inches (about 48 cm) in diameter, is decorated with figures from mythology. The actual dish remains the property of the All England Club in their museum, so the champion receives a miniature replica bearing the names of all past Champions. From 1949 to 2006 the replica was 8 inches in diameter, and since 2007 it has been a three-quarter size replica with a diameter of 13.5 inches.\n\nThe winner of the Gentlemen's Doubles, Ladies' Doubles, and Mixed Doubles events receive silver cups. A trophy is awarded to each player in the Doubles pair, unlike the other Grand Slam tournaments where the winning Doubles duo shares a single trophy. The Gentlemen's Doubles silver challenge cup was originally from the Oxford University Lawn Tennis Club and donated to the All England Club in 1884. The Ladies' Doubles Trophy, a silver cup and cover known as The Duchess of Kent Challenge Cup, was presented to the All England Club in 1949 by The Duchess of Kent. The Mixed Doubles Trophy is a silver challenge cup and cover presented to the All England Club by the family of two-time Wimbledon doubles winner S.H. Smith.\n\nThe runner-up in each event receives an inscribed silver plate. The trophies are usually presented by the President of the All England Club, The Duke of Kent.\n\nPrize money was first awarded in 1968, the year that professional players were allowed to compete in the Championships for the first time. Total prize money was £26,150; the winner of the men's title earned £2,000 while the women's singles champion received £750.\n\nBefore 2007, among grand slam tournaments, Wimbledon and the French Open awarded more prize money in men's events than in women's events. In 2007, Wimbledon changed this policy, awarding the same amounts per event category to both men and women. The decision has been controversial because women generally spend considerably less time playing on court than men (except in mixed doubles) owing to their wins being based upon best of three sets, whereas men's are based upon best of five sets.\n\nIn 2009, a total of £12,500,000 in prize money was awarded with the singles champions receiving £850,000 each, an increase of 13.3 percent on 2008. In 2010 total prize money increased to £13,725,000, and the singles champions received £1,000,000 each. A further increase of 6.4% in 2011 resulted in a total prize money amount of £14,600,000. Both male and female singles champions prize money increased to £1,100,000, a rise of 10%. The 2012 Championships offered total prize money of £16,060,000, an increase of 10.0% from 2011. The bulk of the increases were given to players losing in earlier rounds. This move was in response to the growing angst among lower-ranked players concerning the inadequacy of their pay. Sergiy Stakhovsky, a member of the ATP Player Council and who was at the time ranked 68th, was among the most vocal in the push for higher pay for players who bow out in the earlier rounds. In an interview Stakhovsky intimated that it is not uncommon for lower-ranked players to be in the negative, for certain tour events, if their results weren't stellar. This issue gained the attention of the men's \"Big Four\"—Novak Djokovic, Roger Federer, Andy Murray, and Rafael Nadal—as well as the Championships.\n\nIn 2013 total prize money was further increased by about 40% from 2012 to £22,560,000. The losers in the earlier singles rounds of the tournament saw a highest 62% increase in their pay while the total prize money of the doubles increased by 22%. The prize money for participants of the qualifying matches saw an increase of 41%. Sergiy Stakhovsky, a member of the ATP Player Council, was the loudest voice for this increase. The 2015 prize money was £1,880,000 each for the Gentlemen's and Ladies' Singles winners, £340,000 each pair for the Gentlemen's and Ladies' Doubles winners, and £100,000 per pair for the Mixed Doubles winners. The total prize money awarded is £26,750,000 up 7% from the £25,000,000 in 2014. The 2016 Wimbledon Championships saw prize money for the Gentlemen's and Ladies' Singles winners reach £2,000,000 for the first time. The winning pair of the Gentlemen's and Ladies' Doubles received £350,000, a £10,000 increase from 2015. £100,000 was awarded to the winning pair of the Mixed Doubles competition.\n\nIn 2016, the total prize money of £28,100,000 was a 5% increase on the 2015 prize money.\n\nIn 2017, the total prize money rose by 12.5% to £31,600,000, with the Gentlemen’s and Ladies’ Singles Champions each receiving £2.2 million, a 10% increase from £2.0 million in 2016.\n\nRanking points for the ATP and WTA have varied at Wimbledon through the years but at present singles players receive the following points:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8220635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8220635", "title": "Théâtre du Marais", "text": "Théâtre du Marais\n\nThe Théâtre du Marais has been the name of several theatres and theatrical troupes in Paris, France. The original and most famous theatre of the name operated in the 17th century. The name was briefly revived for a revolutionary theatre in 1791, and revived again in 1976. The present-day Théâtre du Marais operates at 37, rue Volta in the 3rd arrondissement of Paris.\n\nThe Théâtre du Marais was founded in 1634, at which time there had been only one theatre company in Paris, the \"comédiens du Roi\" (\"comedians of the King\"), at the Hôtel de Bourgogne. The actors Charles Lenoir and Montdory decided to create their own troupe, and situated it in the fashionable Le Marais district of Paris, where they converted the Jeu de Paume des \"Maretz\", an unused tennis court on the Vieille Rue du Temple opposite the Capuchins, into a theatre.\n\nThe new theatre's repertory was made up mainly of farces by Jodelet and works by Pierre Corneille; Corneille debuted \"Le Cid\" there in 1637. The actor Floridor entered the troupe in 1640, and quickly became a major star.\n\nIn 1643, the theatre was heavily damaged by a fire, and closed until its restoration was completed in October 1644. Upon its reopening, due to its technical innovations as a new theatre and being the first theatre to add a proscenium arch, it increasingly developed spectacular sets, with machinery helping to depict shipwrecks and cataclysms. Marie Champmeslé and her husband entered the troupe in 1669. Competition with the \"comédiens du Roi\" lasted until 1673, when the Théâtre du Marais was dissolved to join with Molière's troupe, forming the \"troupe du Roi\" at the Théâtre Guénégaud, and eventually part of the Comédie-Française.\n\nA new Théâtre du Marais was founded in 1791. It was built using materials recovered from the storming of the Bastille, and presented revolutionary spectacles. The house playwright was Pierre Beaumarchais. This theatre was forced to close in 1807 by Napoleon, and it was destroyed in 1812 to make room for the construction of public baths.\n\nThe current Théâtre du Marais was founded by Jacques Mauclair in 1976. It temporarily closed in 1999, but was reopened as part of the Cours Florent in May 2000.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "933322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=933322", "title": "Wars of the Three Kingdoms", "text": "Wars of the Three Kingdoms\n\nThe Wars of the Three Kingdoms, sometimes known as the British Civil Wars, formed an intertwined series of conflicts that took place in the kingdoms of England, Ireland and Scotland between 1639 and 1651. The English Civil War proper has become the best-known of these conflicts; it included the abolition of the monarchy and the execution of the kingdom's monarch, Charles I, by the English parliament in 1649.\n\nThe history of these wars is often extended to include the uprisings and conflicts that continued through the 1650s until the English Restoration of the monarchy in 1660, and sometimes to include Venner's uprising the following year. The wars were the outcome of broadly set tensions over religious and civil issues. Religious disputes centred on whether religion was to be dictated by the monarch or by choice, the conscience of the individual, with many people feeling that they ought to have freedom of religion (freedom of conscience). The related civil question was settling the extent to which the king's rule was to be constrained by parliament—in particular the right to raise taxes and armed forces without consent of the parliament.\n\nThe wars also had elements of national conflict, as Ireland and Scotland rebelled against England's primacy within the Three Kingdoms. The broad and durable victory of the English Parliament—ultimately (under Oliver Cromwell and the Army) overcoming the king, the Irish and the Scots, and then outlasting the Cromwellian Protectorate itself—helped establish the future of Great Britain and Ireland as a constitutional monarchy with political power centred on the Parliament in London.\n\nThese wars included the Bishops' Wars of 1639 and 1640; the Irish Rebellion of 1641; Confederate Ireland, 1642–1649; the Scottish Civil War of 1644–1645; and the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland in 1649 (collectively the Eleven Years War or Irish Confederate Wars); and the First, Second and Third English Civil Wars of 1642–1646, 1648–1649 and 1650–1651.\n\nAfter 1541, monarchs of England styled their Irish territory as also a Kingdom—replacing the —and ruled there with the assistance of a separate Irish Parliament, while Henry VIII integrated Wales more closely into the Kingdom of England. Scotland, the third separate kingdom, was governed by the House of Stuart.\n\nVia the English Reformation, King Henry VIII made himself head of the Protestant Church of England and outlawed Catholicism in England and Wales. In the course of the 16th century Protestantism became intimately associated with national identity in England: English folk in general saw Catholicism as the national enemy, especially as it was embodied in the rivals France and Spain. But Catholicism remained the religion of most people in Ireland; for many Irish it was a symbol of native resistance to the Tudor conquest/reconquest of Ireland in 1541.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Scotland the Protestant Reformation was a popular movement led by John Knox. The Scottish Parliament legislated for a national Presbyterian church—namely the Church of Scotland or the \"Kirk\"—and the Catholic Mary, Queen of Scots was forced to abdicate in favour of her son James VI of Scotland. James grew up under a regency disputed between Catholic and Protestant factions; when he took power he aspired to be a \"universal King\" favouring the English Episcopalian system of bishops appointed by the king. In 1584, he introduced bishops into the Church of Scotland, but met with vigorous opposition, and he had to concede that the General Assembly would continue running the church without his say.\n\nThe personal union of the three kingdoms under one monarch came about when King James VI of Scotland succeeded Elizabeth I to the English throne in 1603, when he also became King James I of England and of Ireland. In 1625, Charles I succeeded his father, and marked three main concerns regarding England and Wales: how to fund his government, how to reform the church, and how to limit (the English) Parliament's interference in his rule. At that time he showed little interest in his other two kingdoms, Scotland and Ireland.\n\nJames VI remained Protestant, taking care to maintain his hopes of succession to the English throne. He duly became James I of England in 1603 and moved to London. His diplomatic and political skills now concentrated fully in dealing with the English Court and Parliament—at the same time running Scotland by writing instructions to the Privy Council of Scotland and controlling the Parliament of Scotland through the Lords of the Articles. He contravened the sovereign authority of the Scottish General Assembly and stopped it from meeting, then increased the number of bishops in the Church of Scotland. In 1618 he held a General Assembly and pushed through \"Five Articles\" of Episcopalian practices, which were widely boycotted. \n\nAfter his death in 1625, James was succeeded by his son Charles I, who was crowned in St Giles' Cathedral, Edinburgh—the Scottish coronation—in 1633, with full Anglican rites. Charles was less skillful or restrained than his father; his attempts to enforce Anglican practices in the Church of Scotland created opposition that reached a flashpoint when he introduced the Book of Common Prayer. His confrontation with the Scots came to a head in 1639, when he tried and failed to coerce Scotland by military means, the Bishops' wars.\n\nCharles shared his father's belief in the Divine Right of Kings, and his persistent assertion of this standard seriously disrupted relations between the Crown and the English Parliament. The Church of England remained dominant, but a powerful Puritan minority, represented by about one third of Parliament, began to assert themselves; their religious precepts had much in common with the Presbyterian Scots.\n\nThe English Parliament and the king had repeated disputes over taxation, military expenditures and the role of parliament in government. While James I had held much the same opinions as his son regarding royal prerogatives, he had discretion and charisma enough to often persuade Parliamentarians to his thinking. Charles had no such skill in political or human management; faced with multiple crises during 1639–1642, he failed to prevent his kingdoms from sliding into civil war. When Charles approached the Parliament to pay for a campaign against the Scots, they refused; they then declared themselves to be permanently in session—the Long Parliament—and soon presented Charles a long list of civil and religious grievances requiring his remedy before they approved any new legislation.\n\nMeanwhile, in the Kingdom of Ireland (proclaimed such in 1541 but only fully conquered for the Crown in 1603), tensions had also begun to mount. Thomas Wentworth, Charles I's Lord Deputy of Ireland, angered Roman Catholics by enforcing new taxes while denying them full rights as subjects; he further antagonised the native Irish Catholics by repeated initiatives to confiscate and transfer their lands to English colonists. Conditions became explosive in 1639 when Wentworth offered Irish Catholics some reforms in return for them raising and funding an Irish army (led by Protestant officers) to put down the Scottish rebellion. The idea of an Irish Catholic army enforcing what many saw as already tyrannical government horrified both the Scottish and the English Parliaments, who in response threatened to invade Ireland.\n\nModern historians have emphasised the lack of inevitability of the civil wars, noting that the sides resorted to 'violence first' in situations marked by mutual distrust and paranoia. Charles' initial failure to quickly end the Bishops' Wars informed the antagonists that force could serve them better than negotiation.\n\nIn Ireland, alienated by English Protestant domination and frightened by the rhetoric of the English and Scottish Parliaments, a small group of Irish conspirators launched the Irish Rebellion of 1641, ostensibly in support of the \"King's Rights\". The rising featured widespread assaults on Protestant communities in Ireland. In England and Scotland, rumours spread that the killings had the king's sanction, which, for many, foreshadowed their own fate if the king's Irish troops landed in Britain. Thus the English Parliament refused to pay for a royal army to put down the rebellion in Ireland; instead Parliament decided to raise its own armed forces. The king did likewise, rallying those Royalists (some of them members of Parliament) who believed their fortunes were best served by loyalty to the king.\n\nThe English Civil War ignited in 1642. Scottish Covenanters (as Presbyterians there called themselves) joined forces with the English Parliament in late 1643 and played a major role in the Parliamentary victory. Over more than two years the king's forces were ground down by the efficiency of those of Parliament, including the New Model Army, backed as they were by the financial muscle of the City of London. On 5 May 1646 at Southwell, Charles I surrendered to the Scottish army besieging Newark-on-Trent. What remained of the English and Welsh Royalist armies and garrisons surrendered piecemeal over the next few months.\n\nMeanwhile, the rebellious Irish Catholics formed their own government—Confederate Ireland—intending to help the Royalists in return for religious toleration and political autonomy. Troops from England and Scotland fought in Ireland, and Irish Confederate troops mounted an expedition to Scotland in 1644, sparking the Scottish Civil War. There, the Royalists gained a series of victories in 1644–1645, but were crushed after the main Covenanter armies returned to Scotland upon the end of the first English Civil War.\n\nThe Scots handed Charles over to the English and returned to Scotland, the English Parliament having paid them a large sum for their expenses in the English campaign. After his surrender, Charles was approached by the Scots, the Presbyterians in the English Parliament, and the \"Grandees\" of the New Model Army, all attempting to reach an accommodation with him and among themselves that would gain the peace while preserving the crown. But now, a breach between the New Model Army and Parliament widened day by day, until the Presbyterians in Parliament, with allies among the Scots and the remaining Royalists, saw themselves strong enough to challenge the Army, which began the Second English Civil War.\n\nThe New Model Army vanquished the English Royalist and Parliamentarians, and their Scottish Engager allies. On account of his secret machinations with the Scottish Engagers, Charles was charged with treason against England. Subsequently, the Grandees and their civilian supporters would not reconcile with the king or the Presbyterian majority in Parliament. The Grandees acted; soldiers were used to purge the English Parliament of those who opposed the Army. The resultant Rump Parliament of the Long Parliament then passed enabling legislation for putting Charles I on trial for treason. He was found guilty of treason against the English commons and was executed on 30 January 1649.\n\nAfter the execution of King Charles I the Rump Parliament passed a series of acts declaring England a republic and that the House of Commons—without the House of Lords—would sit as the legislature and a Council of State would act as the executive power. In the other two kingdoms the execution of Charles caused the warring parties to unite, and they recognised Charles II as king of Great Britain, France and Ireland, which would lead to a Third English Civil War.\n\nTo deal with the threat to the English Commonwealth posed by the two kingdoms (Ireland and Scotland), the Rump Parliament first charged Cromwell to invade and subdue Ireland. In August 1649, he landed an English army at Rathmines shortly after the Siege of Dublin was abandoned by the Royalists following the Battle of Rathmines. Then, in late May 1650, Cromwell left one army to continue the Irish conquest and returned to England and to take command of a second English army preparing to invade Scotland. On 3 September 1650, he defeated the Scottish Covenanters at the Battle of Dunbar; his forces then occupied Edinburgh and Scotland south of the River Forth. Cromwell was advancing the bulk of his army over the Forth towards Stirling, when Charles II, commanding a Scottish Royalist army, stole the march on the English commander and invaded England from his base in Scotland. Cromwell divided his forces, leaving part in Scotland to complete the conquest there, then led the rest south in pursuit of Charles.\n\nThe Royalist army failed to gather much support from English Royalists as it moved south into England; so, instead of heading directly towards London and certain defeat, Charles aimed for Worcester in hopes that Wales and the West and Midlands of England would rise against the Commonwealth. This didn't happen, and one year to the day after the Battle of Dunbar the New Model Army and English militia regiments vanquished the last Royalist army of the English Civil War at the Battle of Worcester, on 3 September 1651. It was the last and most decisive battle in the Wars of the Three Kingdoms.\n\nHaving defeated all organized opposition, the Grandees of the Parliamentary New Model Army and their civilian supporters dominated the politics of all three nations for the next nine years (see Interregnum (1649–1660)). As for England, the Rump Parliament had already decreed it was a republic and a Commonwealth; but Ireland and Scotland were now ruled by military governors, even as constituent representatives from both nations were seated in the Rump Parliament of the Protectorate—all which were dominated by Oliver Cromwell, the Lord Protector. When Cromwell died in 1658, control of the Commonwealth became unstable, until. in early 1660, General George Monck, commanding English occupation forces in Scotland, ordered his troops from the Coldstream barracks, marched them south into England, and seized control of London by February 1660. There he accumulated allies and agreements among the English and London establishments including the newly constituted Convention Parliament, to which Monck was elected a member. First a Royalist campaigner, then a Parliamentary soldier, he now contrived for the Restoration of the monarchy; Monck arranged that the Convention Parliament would invite Charles II to return as king of the three realms—which was done by act of Parliament on 1 May 1660.\n\nThe Wars of the Three Kingdoms pre-figured many of the changes that ultimately would shape modern Britain; but \"in the short term\", the conflicts actually resolved little for the kingdoms and peoples of the times. The English Commonwealth did achieve a notable compromise between monarchy and a republic, even one that survived destabilizing issues for nearly the next two hundred years. In practice, Oliver Cromwell exercised political power through his control over Parliament's military forces, but his legal position—and provisions for his succession—remained unclear, even after he became Lord Protector. None of the several constitutions proposed during this period were realized. Thus the Commonwealth and Protectorate of the Parliamentarians—the wars' victors—left no significant new forms of government in place after their time.\n\nStill, \"in the long term\", two abiding legacies of British democracy were established during this period:\n\nEnglish Protestants experienced religious freedom during the Interregnum, but there was none for English Roman Catholics. During the term of their control, the Presbyterian partisans abolished the Church of England and the House of Lords. Cromwell and dissolved it by force, but he failed to establish an acceptable alternative. Nor did he and his supporters move in the direction of popular democracy, as the more radical Parliamentarians (the Levellers) wanted.\n\nDuring the Interregnum, the New Model Army occupied Ireland and Scotland. In Ireland, the new government confiscated almost all lands belonging to Irish Catholics as punishment for the rebellion of 1641; harsh Penal Laws also restricted this community. Thousands of Parliamentarian soldiers settled in Ireland on confiscated lands. The Commonwealth abolished the Parliaments of Ireland and Scotland. In theory, these countries had representation in the English Parliament, but as this body never held real powers, representation was ineffective. When Cromwell died in 1658 the Commonwealth fell apart—but without major violence. Historians record that adroit politicians of the time, especially George Monck, prevailed over the looming crisis; Monck in particular was deemed the victor \"sine sanguine,\" i.e., \"without blood\", of the Restoration crisis. And in 1660, Charles II was restored as king of England, Scotland, and Ireland.\n\nUnder the English Restoration the political system returned to the constitutional position of before the wars. Although Charles II's Declaration of Breda, April 1660, offering reconciliation and forgiveness, had promised a general pardon for crimes committed during the English Civil War, the new régime executed or imprisoned for life those directly involved in the regicide of Charles I. Royalists dug up Cromwell's corpse and performed a posthumous execution. Those religious and political radicals held responsible for the wars suffered harsh repression. Scotland and Ireland regained their Parliaments and some Irish retrieved confiscated lands; the New Model Army was disbanded. However, the issues that had caused the wars—religion, the powers of Parliament vis-á-vis the king, and the relationships between the three kingdoms—remained unresolved, postponed actually, to re-emerge as matters fought over again leading to the Glorious Revolution of 1688. Only after this later time did the larger features of modern Britain foreshadowed in the civil wars emerge permanently, namely: a Protestant constitutional monarchy, and with a strong standing army under civilian control.\n\n\n\nGreat Britain and Ireland\n\nEngland\n\nIreland\n\nScotland\n\n"}
{"id": "738739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=738739", "title": "William Parker, 4th Baron Monteagle", "text": "William Parker, 4th Baron Monteagle\n\nWilliam Parker, 13th Baron Morley, 4th Baron Monteagle (15751 July 1622) was an English peer, best known for his role in the discovery of the Gunpowder Plot. In 1605 Parker was due to attend the opening of Parliament. He was a member of the House of Lords as Lord Monteagle, the title on his mother's side. He received a letter: it appears that someone, presumably a fellow Catholic, was afraid he would be blown up. The so-called Monteagle letter survives in the National Archives (SP 14/216/2), but its origin remains mysterious.\n\nWilliam was the eldest son of Edward Parker, 12th Baron Morley (died 1618), and of Elizabeth Stanley, daughter and heiress of William Stanley, 3rd Baron Monteagle (died 1581). He had both a younger brother, Charles and a younger sister, Mary.\n\nWilliam's father was a recusant, but appears to have been in favour at court; he was one of the noblemen who tried Mary, Queen of Scots. However, William was allied with many Roman Catholic families, and during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I was in sympathy with their cause. His wife, the daughter of Sir Thomas Tresham, came from a well-known Roman Catholic family. His sister married Thomas Habington, also a Roman Catholic.\nHe was knighted while with Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex in Ireland in 1599, and in 1601 he took part in the latter's rebellion in London. He was punished by imprisonment and a fine of £8,000.\n\nHaving close ties with the extremist Catholic faction during Queen Elizabeth I's rule, and a hand in organising Thomas Winter's mission to Spain in 1602, William Parker later declared to be \"done with all formal plots\" after King James I took the throne. Parker even went as far as writing a letter to his new king with a promise to follow the state religion. Like some reformers, Parker blamed his childhood for his previous wrongdoings, stating: \"I knew no better.\"\n\nWhen King James I began his reign, English Catholics had hoped that the persecution felt for over 45 years under his predecessor Queen Elizabeth would finally end. Though more tolerant than others before him, James was still faced with plots and schemes by priests and rebels trying to end the mistreatment of Catholics through force (Fraser 63). To please the Protestants, who were distressed over the growing strength of the Catholic religion, James proclaimed his detestation for Catholics in England. Once again priests were expelled, fines were taxed, and Catholics went back to living a hidden life.\n\nBut some Catholics weren't so accepting of the secretive nature in which they had to practice their faith. In 1604 Robert Catesby, a devout Catholic with a magnetic personality, recruited friends and rebels to meet and discuss his plot to blow up the House of Lords in an attempt to reestablish Catholicism in England. Those present at that first meeting with Catesby were Thomas Wintour, John Wright, Thomas Percy and Guy Fawkes. With the imminent threat of plague, Parliament postponed re-opening until November 5, 1605, which gave the plotters ample time to lease out a small house in the centre of London where Fawkes would live under the alias “Jhon Jhonson” as Thomas Percy's servant while gathering the gunpowder necessary (Fraser 174). By March 1605, the 36 barrels of gunpowder were moved to the newly leased out cellar directly under the House of Lords.\n\nOn 26 October an anonymous letter warned Lord Monteagle to avoid the opening of Parliament. This letter was possibly sent by Monteagle's brother-in-law, Francis Tresham. In any event it caused enough suspicion that on the night of 4 November the undercroft beneath the House of Lords was searched by guards, where Guy Fawkes was found in possession of matches and gunpowder was found hidden under coal. After intense torture in the Tower of London Fawkes gave his true name and those of his fellow conspirators. All but one of the plotters pleaded not guilty but nevertheless the seven were found guilty of high treason and each were executed on 30 and 31 January.\n\nOn 26 October 1605, while sitting at supper at his house in Hoxton, London, he received a letter warning of the Gunpowder Plot.\nIt is believed by some historians that he authored the letter himself to win acclaim and favour with the King.\nFraser posits that the note was from someone who wanted to protect Parker (either his family, such as his sister Mary Habington, or a friendly conspirator). Had it been a conspirator, such as Francis Tresham, the writer would also have intended to end the plot before it began; Parker had been too clear in his politics to assume he would remain quiet about the plot. The argument against Mary Habington having sent the letter is that the letter was too clumsy, and that there were far better ways to discreetly deliver the information, had it come from her. As for a conspirator, Parker benefited too richly — and the conspirators too terribly — for that to be the case.\n\nAfter deciphering the letter, Parker rushed to Whitehall and showed it to Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury, who then showed it to the King. On 4 November, Parker joined Thomas Howard in searching the basement of Parliament, where they found the stash of gunpowder and explosives. For his service in protecting the crown, Monteagle was rewarded with 500 pounds and 200 pounds' worth of lands.\n\nIn 1609, William Parker invested in the second Virginia Company and became a member of the council. He had shares in the East India and North West Companies as well. Parker used his influence to protect his brother-in-law, Thomas Habington, from the possible consequence of death, after harbouring the forbidden priests at Hindlip. Although Habington was condemned, his wife's pleas to her brother secured his reprieve. Despite revealing the Gunpowder Plot, Parker seems to have retained some connections to the Catholic community. His eldest son of six children, Henry Lord Morley, was also a known Catholic and in 1609, he was suspected of sheltering students from St. Omer's seminary. Monteagle gave permission for his oldest daughter Frances Parker to become a nun, although not willing, at first, to grant her request. He eventually surrendered to his physically handicapped daughter's appeal \"in respect that she was crooked, and therefore not fit for the world.\"\n\nBy his marriage with Elizabeth Tresham, daughter of Sir Thomas Tresham, he had six children: three sons, three daughters. The eldest son, Henry, succeeded him as 14th Baron Morley and 5th Baron Monteagle. These baronies fell into abeyance when Henry's son Thomas died in about 1686. His oldest daughter, Frances, was a nun; the second, Catherine, married John Savage, 2nd Earl Rivers; and the youngest, Elizabeth, married Edward Cranfield, and was the mother of Edward Cranfield. Through Catherine, he was the 5x great-grandfather of Alfred, Lord Tennyson. \n\nParker was summoned to parliament as Baron Morley and Baron Monteagle in 1618 after the death of his father. He died on 1 July 1622 at Great Hallingbury in Essex and was reported to have received the last rites of the Roman Catholic Church before his death.\n\n"}
