{"id": "2987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2987", "title": "Acts of Union 1707", "text": "Acts of Union 1707\n\nThe Acts of Union were two Acts of Parliament: the Union with Scotland Act 1706 passed by the Parliament of England, and the Union with England Act passed in 1707 by the Parliament of Scotland. They put into effect the terms of the Treaty of Union that had been agreed on 22 July 1706, following negotiation between commissioners representing the parliaments of the two countries. By the two Acts, the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotlandwhich at the time were separate states with separate legislatures, but with the same monarchwere, in the words of the Treaty, \"United into One Kingdom by the Name of Great Britain\".\n\nThe two countries had shared a monarch since the Union of the Crowns in 1603, when King James VI of Scotland inherited the English throne from his double first cousin twice removed, Queen Elizabeth I. Although described as a Union of Crowns, until 1707 there were in fact two separate Crowns resting on the same head (as opposed to the implied creation of a single Crown and a single Kingdom, exemplified by the later Kingdom of Great Britain). Prior to the Acts of Union there had been three previous attempts (in 1606, 1667, and 1689) to unite the two countries by Acts of Parliament, but it was not until the early 18th century that both political establishments came to support the idea, albeit for different reasons.\n\nThe Acts took effect on 1 May 1707. On this date, the Scottish Parliament and the English Parliament united to form the Parliament of Great Britain, based in the Palace of Westminster in London, the home of the English Parliament. Hence, the Acts are referred to as the Union of the Parliaments. On the Union, the historian Simon Schama said \"What began as a hostile merger, would end in a full partnership in the most powerful going concern in the world ... it was one of the most astonishing transformations in European history.\"\n\nDespite attempts by Edward I to conquer Scotland in the late 13th and early 14th centuries, the two countries were entirely separate. However, when Elizabeth I became Queen of England in 1558, a union became increasingly likely as she neither married or had children. From 1558 onwards, her heir was her Catholic cousin Mary, Queen of Scots who pledged herself to a peaceful union between the two kingdoms. In 1567, Mary was forced to abdicate as Queen of Scots and replaced by her infant son James VI and I, who was brought up as a Protestant and became heir to the English throne. After Elizabeth died in 1603, the two Crowns were held in personal union by James and his Stuart successors but England and Scotland remained separate entities.\n\nWhen James became King of England in 1603, the creation of a unified Church of Scotland and England governed by bishops was the first step in his vision of a centralised, Unionist state. On his accession, he announced his intention to unite the two realms so he would not be \"guilty of bigamy;\" he used the royal prerogative to take the title \"King of Great Britain\" and give a British character to his court and person. \nThe 1603 Union of England and Scotland Act established a joint Commission to agree terms but the English Parliament was concerned this would lead to the imposition of an absolutist structure similar to that of Scotland. James dropped his policy of a speedy union, the topic disappeared from the legislative agenda while attempts to revive it in 1610 were met with hostility. \n\nThis did not mean James abandoned the idea; 17th-century religion and politics were closely linked and he viewed a unified Church of Scotland and England as the first step towards a centralised, Unionist state. The problem was that the two churches were very different in both structure and doctrine; Scottish bishops presided over Presbyterian structures but were doctrinal Calvinists who viewed many Church of England practices as little better than Catholicism. The religious policies followed by James and his son Charles I were intended as precursors to political union; resistance to this concept led to the 1638 National Covenant in Scotland and the 1639-1651 Wars of the Three Kingdoms.\n\nThe 1639–1640 Bishops' Wars confirmed the primacy of the Presbyterian Church of Scotland or kirk and established a Covenanter government in Scotland. The Scots remained neutral when the First English Civil War began in 1642, but grew concerned as to the impact of Royalist victory on Scotland after Parliamentary defeats in the first year of the war. Religious union with England was also seen as the best way to preserve a Presbyterian kirk.\nThe 1643 Solemn League and Covenant provided Scottish military support for the English Parliament in return for a religious union between the Church of England and the kirk. While it referred repeatedly to 'union' between England, Scotland, and Ireland, it did not explicitly commit to political union which had little support even among their English supporters.\n\nEven religious union was fiercely opposed by the Episcopalian majority in the Church of England and Independents like Oliver Cromwell. The Scots and English Presbyterians came to see the Independents who dominated the New Model Army as a bigger threat than the Royalists and when Charles I surrendered in 1646, they agreed to restore him to the English throne. Both Royalists and Covenanters agreed the institution of monarchy was divinely ordered but disagreed on the nature and extent of Royal authority versus that of the church. \nAfter defeat in the 1647–1648 Second English Civil War, Scotland was occupied by English troops which were withdrawn once the so-called Engagers whom Cromwell held responsible for the war had been replaced by the Kirk Party. In December 1648, Pride's Purge confirmed Cromwell's political control in England by removing Presbyterian MPs from Parliament and executing Charles in January 1649. Despite this, in February, the Kirk Party proclaimed Charles II King of Scotland and Great Britain; and agreed to restore him to the English throne. \n\nDefeat in the 1649–1651 Third English Civil War or Anglo-Scottish War resulted in Scotland's incorporation into the Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland, largely driven by Cromwell's determination to break the power of the kirk, which he held responsible for the Anglo-Scottish War. The 1652 Tender of Union was followed on 12 April 1654 by \"An Ordinance by the Protector for the Union of England and Scotland,\" creating the Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland. It was ratified by the Second Protectorate Parliament on 26 June 1657, creating a single Parliament in Westminster, with 30 representatives each from Scotland and Ireland added to the existing English members. \n\nWhile it established free trade within the Commonwealth, the economic benefits were diminished by the heavy taxation needed to fund the army. In Scotland, Union was associated with military occupation, in England with heavy taxes and had little popular support in either country. It was dissolved by the 1660 Restoration of Charles II despite a petition by Scottish members of the Commonwealth Parliament for its continuance. \n\nThe Scottish economy was badly damaged by the English Navigation Acts of 1660 and 1663 and wars with the Dutch Republic, its major export market. An Anglo-Scots Trade Commission was set up in January 1668 but the English had no interest in making concessions, as the Scots had little to offer in return. In 1669, Charles II revived talks on political union; his motives were to weaken Scotland's commercial and political links with the Dutch, still seen as an enemy and complete the work of his grandfather James I. Continued opposition in both England and Scotland meant that by the end of 1669, negotiations between Commissioners ground to a halt.\n\nFollowing the Glorious Revolution of 1688, a Scottish Convention met in Edinburgh in April 1689 to agree a new constitutional settlement; during which the Scottish Bishops backed a proposed union in an attempt to preserve Episcopalian control of the kirk. William and Mary were supportive of the idea but it was opposed both by the Presbyterian majority in Scotland and the English Parliament. Episcopacy in Scotland was abolished in 1690, alienating a significant part of the political class; it was this element that later formed the bedrock of opposition to Union. \n\nThe 1690s were a time of economic hardship in Europe as a whole and Scotland in particular, a period now known as the Seven ill years which led to strained relations with England. In 1698, the Company of Scotland Trading to Africa and the Indies received a charter to raise capital through public subscription. The Company invested in the Darién scheme, an ambitious plan funded almost entirely by Scottish investors to build a colony on the Isthmus of Panama for trade with East Asia. The scheme was a disaster; the losses of over £150,000 severely impacted the Scottish commercial system. The financial losses incurred have often been suggested as one of the drivers behind Union.\n\nDeeper political integration had been a key policy of Queen Anne from the time she acceded to the throne in 1702. Under the aegis of the Queen and her ministers in both kingdoms, the parliaments of England and Scotland agreed to participate in fresh negotiations for a union treaty in 1705.\n\nBoth countries appointed 31 commissioners to conduct the negotiations. Most of the Scottish commissioners favoured union, and about half were government ministers and other officials. At the head of the list was Queensberry, and the Lord Chancellor of Scotland, the Earl of Seafield. The English commissioners included the Lord High Treasurer, the Earl of Godolphin, the Lord Keeper, Baron Cowper, and a large number of Whigs who supported union. Tories were not in favour of union and only one was represented among the commissioners.\n\nNegotiations between the English and Scottish commissioners took place between 16 April and 22 July 1706 at the Cockpit in London. Each side had its own particular concerns. Within a few days, England gained a guarantee that the Hanoverian dynasty would succeed Queen Anne to the Scottish crown, and Scotland received a guarantee of access to colonial markets, in the hope that they would be placed on an equal footing in terms of trade.\n\nAfter negotiations ended in July 1706, the acts had to be ratified by both Parliaments. In Scotland, about 100 of the 227 members of the Parliament of Scotland were supportive of the Court Party. For extra votes the pro-court side could rely on about 25 members of the Squadrone Volante, led by the Marquess of Montrose and the Duke of Roxburghe. Opponents of the court were generally known as the Country party, and included various factions and individuals such as the Duke of Hamilton, Lord Belhaven and Andrew Fletcher of Saltoun, who spoke forcefully and passionately against the union. The Court party enjoyed significant funding from England and the Treasury and included many who had accumulated debts following the Darien Disaster.\n\nIn Scotland, the Duke of Queensberry was largely responsible for the successful passage of the Union act by the Scottish Parliament. In Scotland, he received much criticism from local residents, but in England he was cheered for his action. He had received around half of the funding awarded by the Westminster treasury for himself. In April 1707, he travelled to London to attend celebrations at the royal court, and was greeted by groups of noblemen and gentry lined along the road. From Barnet, the route was lined with crowds of cheering people, and once he reached London a huge crowd had formed. On 17 April, the Duke was gratefully received by the Queen at Kensington Palace.\n\nThe Acts of Union should be seen within a wider European context of increasing state centralisation during the late 17th and early 18th centuries. This included the monarchies of France, Sweden, Denmark and Spain. While there were exceptions such as the Dutch Republic or the Republic of Venice, the trend was clear. \n\nThe dangers of the monarch using one Parliament against the other became apparent in the wars of 1647 and 1651 and resurfaced during the Exclusion Crisis. English resistance to the Catholic James succeeding his brother Charles resulted in him being sent to Edinburgh in 1681 as Lord High Commissioner. In August, the Scottish Parliament passed the Succession Act, confirming the divine right of kings, the rights of the natural heir 'regardless of religion,' the duty of all to swear allegiance to that king and the independence of the Scottish Crown. It then went beyond ensuring James's succession to the Scottish throne by explicitly stating the aim was to make his exclusion from the English throne impossible without '...the fatall and dreadfull consequences of a civil war.' \n\nThe issue reappeared during the 1688 Glorious Revolution. Contrary to what is often assumed, the English Parliament generally supported the replacement of James with his Protestant daughter Mary II but strongly resisted making her Dutch husband William III & II joint ruler. They only gave way when he threatened to return to the Netherlands and Mary refused to rule without him. \n\nIn Scotland, conflict over control of the kirk between Presbyterians and Episcopalians and William's position as a fellow Calvinist put him in a much stronger position. Originally, William insisted on retaining Episcopacy in the kirk and the Committee of the Articles, an unelected body that controlled what legislation Parliament could debate. Both of these would have given the Crown far greater control than in England but he withdrew his demands due to the 1689-1692 Jacobite Rising.\n\nThe English purpose was to ensure that Scotland would not choose a monarch different from the one on the English throne. The two countries had shared a king for much of the previous century, but the English were concerned that an independent Scotland with a different king, even if he were a Protestant, might make alliances against England. The English succession was provided for by the English Act of Settlement 1701, which ensured that the monarch of England would be a Protestant member of the House of Hanover. Until the Union of Parliaments, the Scottish throne might be inherited by a different successor after Queen Anne: the Scottish Act of Security 1704 granted parliament the right to choose a successor and explicitly required a choice different from the English monarch unless the English were to grant free trade and navigation. Many people in England were unhappy about the prospect, however. English overseas possessions made England very wealthy in comparison to Scotland, a poor country with few roads, very little industry and almost no Navy. This made some view unification as a markedly unequal relationship.\n\nIn Scotland, some claimed that union would enable Scotland to recover from the financial disaster wrought by the Darien scheme through English assistance and the lifting of measures put in place through the Alien Act to force the Scottish Parliament into compliance with the Act of Settlement.\n\nThe combined votes of the Court party with a majority of the Squadrone Volante were sufficient to ensure the final passage of the treaty through the House.\n\nPersonal financial interests were also allegedly involved. Many Commissioners had invested heavily in the Darien scheme and they believed that they would receive compensation for their losses; Article 15 granted £398,085 10s sterling to Scotland, a sum known as The Equivalent, to offset future liability towards the English national debt. In essence it was also used as a means of compensation for investors in the Company of Scotland's Darien scheme, as 58.6% was allocated to its shareholders and creditors.\nEven more direct bribery was also said to be a factor. £20,000 (£240,000 Scots) was dispatched to Scotland for distribution by the Earl of Glasgow. James Douglas, 2nd Duke of Queensberry, the Queen's Commissioner in Parliament, received £12,325, more than 60% of the funding. Robert Burns referred to this:\n\n<poem>We're bought and sold for English Gold,\nSuch a Parcel of Rogues in a Nation.</poem>\n\nSome of the money was used to hire spies, such as Daniel Defoe; his first reports were of vivid descriptions of violent demonstrations against the Union. \"A Scots rabble is the worst of its kind,\" he reported, \"for every Scot in favour there is 99 against\". Years later, Sir John Clerk of Penicuik, originally a leading Unionist, wrote in his memoirs that Defoe \"was a spy among us, but not known as such, otherwise the Mob of Edinburgh would pull him to pieces.\"\n\nThe Treaty could be considered very unpopular at the time. Popular unrest occurred in Edinburgh, as mentioned above, with some lesser but still substantial riots in Glasgow. The people of Edinburgh demonstrated against the treaty, and their apparent leader in opposition to the Unionists was James Hamilton, 4th Duke of Hamilton. However, Hamilton was actually on the side of the English Government. Demonstrators in Edinburgh were opposed to the Union for many reasons: they feared the Kirk would be Anglicised; that Anglicisation would remove democracy from the only really elementally democratic part of the Kingdom; and they feared that tax rises would come.\n\nSir George Lockhart of Carnwath, the only member of the Scottish negotiating team against union, noted that \"The whole nation appears against the Union\" and even Sir John Clerk of Penicuik, an ardent pro-unionist and Union negotiator, observed that the treaty was \"contrary to the inclinations of at least three-fourths of the Kingdom\". Public opinion against the Treaty as it passed through the Scottish Parliament was voiced through petitions from shires, burghs, presbyteries and parishes. The Convention of Royal Burghs also petitioned against the Union as proposed:\n\nNot one petition in favour of an incorporating union was received by Parliament. On the day the treaty was signed, the carilloner in St Giles Cathedral, Edinburgh, rang the bells in the tune \"Why should I be so sad on my wedding day?\" Threats of widespread civil unrest resulted in Parliament imposing martial law.\n\nThe Treaty of Union, agreed between representatives of the Parliament of England and the Parliament of Scotland in 1706, consisted of 25 articles, 15 of which were economic in nature. In Scotland, each article was voted on separately and several clauses in articles were delegated to specialised subcommittees. Article 1 of the treaty was based on the political principle of an incorporating union and this was secured by a majority of 116 votes to 83 on 4 November 1706. To minimise the opposition of the Church of Scotland, an Act was also passed to secure the Presbyterian establishment of the Church, after which the Church stopped its open opposition, although hostility remained at lower levels of the clergy. The treaty as a whole was finally ratified on 16 January 1707 by a majority of 110 votes to 69.\n\nThe two Acts incorporated provisions for Scotland to send representative peers from the Peerage of Scotland to sit in the House of Lords. It guaranteed that the Church of Scotland would remain the established church in Scotland, that the Court of Session would \"remain in all time coming within Scotland\", and that Scots law would \"remain in the same force as before\". Other provisions included the restatement of the Act of Settlement 1701 and the ban on Roman Catholics from taking the throne. It also created a customs union and monetary union.\n\nThe Act provided that any \"laws and statutes\" that were \"contrary to or inconsistent with the terms\" of the Act would \"cease and become void\".\n\nThe Scottish Parliament also passed the Protestant Religion and Presbyterian Church Act 1707 guaranteeing the status of the Presbyterian Church of Scotland. The English Parliament passed a similar Act, 6 Anne c.8.\n\nSoon after the Union, the Act 6 Anne c.40later named the Union with Scotland (Amendment) Act 1707united the English and Scottish Privy Councils and decentralised Scottish administration by appointing justices of the peace in each shire to carry out administration. In effect it took the day-to-day government of Scotland out of the hands of politicians and into those of the College of Justice.\n\nIn the year following the Union, the Treason Act 1708 abolished the Scottish law of and extended the corresponding English law across Great Britain.\n\nScotland benefited, says historian G.N. Clark, gaining \"freedom of trade with England and the colonies\" as well as \"a great expansion of markets\". The agreement guaranteed the permanent status of the Presbyterian church in Scotland, and the separate system of laws and courts in Scotland. Clark argued that in exchange for the financial benefits and bribes that England bestowed, what it gained was\n\nof inestimable value. Scotland accepted the Hanoverian succession and gave up her power of threatening England's military security and complicating her commercial relations ... The sweeping successes of the eighteenth-century wars owed much to the new unity of the two nations.\n\nBy the time Samuel Johnson and James Boswell made their tour in 1773, recorded in \"A Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland\", Johnson noted that Scotland was \"a nation of which the commerce is hourly extending, and the wealth increasing\" and in particular that Glasgow had become one of the greatest cities of Britain.\n\nA commemorative two-pound coin was issued to mark the tercentennial—300th anniversary—of the Union, which occurred two days before the Scottish Parliament general election on 3 May 2007.\n\nThe Scottish Executive held a number of commemorative events through the year including an education project led by the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Scotland, an exhibition of Union-related objects and documents at the National Museums of Scotland and an exhibition of portraits of people associated with the Union at the National Galleries of Scotland.\n\n! colspan=\"2\" style=\"background:#e9e9e9 text-align:left;\"|Commissioner\n! style=\"background:#e9e9e9 text-align:right;\"|Constituency/Position\n! style=\"background:#e9e9e9 text-align:right;\"|Party\n! style=\"background:#e9e9e9 text-align:right;\"|Vote\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34832095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34832095", "title": "Additional notification thresholds", "text": "Additional notification thresholds\n\nIn some countries, financial regulatory regimes allows issuers to set additional issuer specific notification thresholds in their articles of association.\n\nMajor shareholding disclosure regimes defines disclosure thresholds. In case an investor crosses those defined thresholds he is required to disclose those shareholdings. The disclosure needs to be made public by notification to the competent financial authority as well as to the issuer. The setup of the disclosure regimes differs in each country. As a matter of fact the thresholds requiring a disclosure varies in each country. But still those regulatory thresholds applies to shareholdings in all issuers required to be disclosed in this country.\n\nNevertheless, in some countries there are additional issuer specific notification thresholds. Those additional thresholds are in addition to the ones set out by major shareholding notification regimes. E.g. in Austria, Belgium, France and Italy issuers are allowed to stipulate additional notification thresholds in their articles of association according to the European Securities and Markets Authority [ESMA]. For example, following issuers have additional notification thresholds set in their articles of association:\nAccor S.A. 0,5% and multiple, Befimmo S.C.A. 3%, Eutelsat Communications S.A. 1% and multiple, \nl'Oreal S.A. 1% and multiple up to 5%, Sion Industries N.V. 3% and Total S.A. 1% and multiple.\n\nIssuers having shares admitted to trading on a regulated market, for which Belgium is the home member state can stipulate additional notification thresholds, on the basis of article 18 of the law of 2 May 2007. The law came effective by the royal decree of 14 February 2008 on disclosure of major shareholdings. The initial threshold for the notification of major shareholdings in Belgium is 5%. Whereas the lowest possible additional notification threshold is 1%.\n\nThe Belgium financial authority provides on unofficial list of issuers which set additional notification thresholds in their articles of association. It is also stated that the issuer bears sole responsibility for the accuracy of the information given.\n\nShareholders are required to notify when their shareholding exceeds or falls below certain thresholds. According to the act of 26 July 2005 the lowest disclosure threshold is 1/20 which represents 5% (article l. 233-7 of the commercial code).\n\nPursuant the same article allows that companies can require additional notification obligations in their articles of association. The lowest possible additional notification threshold may not be less than 0.5%.\n\n"}
{"id": "37934151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37934151", "title": "Altruism theory of voting", "text": "Altruism theory of voting\n\nThe altruism theory of voting is a model of voter behavior which states that if citizens in a democracy have “social” preferences for the welfare of others, the extremely low probability of a single vote determining an election will be outweighed by the large cumulative benefits society will receive from the voter’s preferred policy being enacted, such that it is rational for an “altruistic” citizen, who receives utility from helping others, to vote. Altruistic voting has been compared to purchasing a lottery ticket, in which the probability of winning is extremely low but the payoff is large enough that the \"expected\" benefit outweighs the cost.\n\nSince the failure of standard rational choice models—which assume voters have \"selfish\" preferences—to explain voter turnout in large elections, public choice economists and social scientists have increasingly turned to altruism as a way to explain why rational individuals would choose to vote despite its apparent lack of individual benefit, the so-called paradox of voting. The theory suggests that individual voters do, in fact, derive personal utility from influencing the \"outcome\" of elections in favor of the candidate that they believe will implement policies for the greater good of the entire population.\n\nThe standard model of voter calculus was articulated by Riker and Ordeshook in their 1968 article \"A Theory of the Calculus of Voting\" in \"The American Political Science Review\". The basic utility hypothesis for the calculus of voting they gave was:\n\nWhere B is the expected differential utility a voter \"personally\" receives from his preferred candidate winning; P is the probability of the voter bringing about B (that is, turning the election for his preferred candidate); C is the individual's cost of voting in the election; and R is the individuals expected reward from voting. If R > 0, then the expected utility of voting outweighs its costs, and it is reasonable to vote. But if R ≤ 0, the costs outweigh the benefits and a strictly rational individual would not be expected to vote.\n\nBecause P, the probability of any one vote determining the outcome, is extremely small for any large election, the expected benefits of voting under the traditional rational choice model is always roughly equal to zero. This leads to the so-called paradox of voting, in which rational choice models of voter behavior predict tiny turnouts which simply do not occur. In all democracies, voter turnout exceeds what the basic rational choice models predict.\n\nBecause simple selfishness cannot explain why large numbers of people consistently choose to vote, Riker and Ordeshook introduced another term to the equation, D, to symbolize the personal or social benefits conferred by the act of voting itself, rather than by affecting the outcome of the election.\n\nThis drew a distinction between \"expressive voting\", intended only to signal support or demonstrate civic responsibility, and \"instrumental voting\", intended to actually change the outcome. The benefits here did not come from actually influencing the election, but rather from the social payoffs of participating in it. Because the term BP was assumed to be zero, D was presumed to be the only important factor in determining elections.\n\nBecause of the multitude of different and contradictory definitions of expressive voting, recently another effort by political scientists and public choice theorists has been made to explain voting behavior with reference to instrumental benefits received from influencing the outcome of the election. If voters assumed to be rational but also to have altruistic tendencies and some preference for outcomes enhancing the social welfare of others, they will reliably vote in favor of the policies they perceive to be for the common good, rather than for their individual benefit.\n\nIn his paper \"Altruism and Turnout,\" James H. Fowler explained how the altruistic theory modified the calculus of voting:\n\nEssentially, voters behave altruistically by absorbing the cost of voting in order to provide society with the benefits of their preferred policy, although the expected reward of voting under this model is greater than zero (and thus still a rational decision) because of voters' altruistic social preferences. Edlin, et al., found in their study of altruistic behavior among voters,\n\nTheir findings suggest that in a large election, altruistic preferences will trump selfish tendencies, thus encouraging a stable voter turnout that closely mirrors the observed rate in western democracies.\n\nIn his 2007 book \"\", George Mason University economist Bryan Caplan argued that, all else equal, voters do not, in fact, choose policies based on self-interest. The rich are not more likely to support policies that personally benefit them, like lower marginal rates, and the poor are not more likely to oppose welfare reform.\n\nHe claims that what he calls the \"Self-Interest Voter Hypothesis\" (SIVH), the theory that individuals' policy preferences are narrowly selfish, is empirically wrong. In response to U.S. Republican candidate Mitt Romney's remarks about the \"47%\" of Americans who will \"always\" vote Democrat because they are dependent on the welfare state, Caplan writes,\n\nCaplan says that voters consistently demonstrate preferences that are not clearly related to self-interest, and they are motivated primarily by what they believe is best for the country.\n\nRelated to the public choice concept of rational ignorance, Caplan proposes the concept of \"rational irrationality\" as an explanation for why the average voter holds views that are persistently and systematically contradictory to the consensus view of expert economists. His thesis is that indulging innate cognitive biases (of which he identifies four as being major contributors to bad economic policy positions) is psychologically gratifying, while overcoming natural prejudices through training, education, and skepticism, is psychologically costly. Therefore, when the personal benefit giving in to our biases is greater than the personal cost suffered from acting on them, individuals will tend to \"rationally\" indulge in irrational behavior, like voting for protectionist tariffs and other economically damaging but socially popular policies.\n\nThese views tend not to be related to the particular voter in any rationally self-interested way, and so voters are genuinely not being subject to any direct economic penalties for choosing irrational policies. The altruistic voter will indulge, without restraint, in make-work bias, anti-foreign bias, pessimistic bias, and anti-market bias, all in the hopes of better his fellow man through the ballot box.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33475928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33475928", "title": "Andorran constitutional referendum, 1993", "text": "Andorran constitutional referendum, 1993\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Andorra on 14 March 1993. Drafted by the Co-Princes and the General Council, the new constitution was approved by 74.2% of voters, with a 76% turnout. The first elections under the new constitution were held later in the year.\n"}
{"id": "509436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509436", "title": "Caesaropapism", "text": "Caesaropapism\n\nCaesaropapism is the idea of combining the power of secular government with the religious power, or of making secular authority superior to the spiritual authority of the Church; especially concerning the connection of the Church with government. Justus Henning Böhmer (1674–1749) may have originally coined the term \"\" (\"Cäseropapismus\"). Max Weber (1864-1920) wrote: \"a secular, caesaropapist ruler... exercises supreme authority in ecclesiastic matters by virtue of his autonomous legitimacy\".\nAccording to Weber's political sociology, caesaropapism entails \"the complete subordination of priests to secular power.\"\n\nIn its extreme form, caesaropapism is a political theory in which the head of state, notably the emperor (\"Caesar\", by extension a \"superior\" king), is also the supreme head of the church (pope or analogous religious leader). In this form, caesaropapism inverts theocracy (or hierocracy in Weber) in which institutions of the church control the state. Both caesaropapism and theocracy are systems in which there is no separation of church and state and in which the two form parts of a single power-structure.\n\nCaesaropapism's chief example is the authority that the Byzantine (East Roman) Emperors had over the Church of Constantinople and Eastern Christianity from the 330 consecration of Constantinople through the tenth century. The Byzantine Emperor would typically protect the Eastern Church and manage its administration by presiding over Ecumenical Councils and appointing Patriarchs and setting territorial boundaries for their jurisdiction. The Emperor exercised a strong control over the ecclesiastical hierarchy, and the Patriarch of Constantinople could not hold office if he did not have the Emperor's approval. Such Emperors as Basiliscus, Zeno, Justinian I, Heraclius, and Constans II published several strictly ecclesiastical edicts either on their own without the mediation of church councils, or they exercised their own political influence on the councils to issue the edicts. According to Metropolitan Kallistos Ware, the historical reality of caesaropapism stems from the confusion of the Byzantine Empire with the Kingdom of God and the zeal of the Byzantines \"to establish here on earth a living icon of God's government in heaven.\"\n\nHowever, Caesaropapism \"never became an accepted principle in Byzantium.\" Several Eastern churchmen such as John Chrysostom, Patriarch of Constantinople and Athanasius, Patriarch of Alexandria, strongly opposed imperial control over the Church, as did Western theologians like Hilary of Poitiers and Hosius, Bishop of Córdoba. Saints, such as such as Maximus the Confessor, resisted the imperial power as a consequence of their witness to orthodoxy. In addition, at several occasions imperial decrees had to be withdrawn as the people of the Church, both lay people, monks and priests, refused to accept inventions at variance with the Church's customs and beliefs. These events show that power over the Church really was in the hands of the Church itself – not solely with the emperor.\n\nCaesaropapism was most notorious in the Tsardom of Russia when Ivan IV the Terrible assumed the title Czar in 1547 and subordinated the Russian Orthodox Church to the state. This level of caesaropapism far exceeded that of the Byzantine Empire and was taken to a new level in 1721, when Peter the Great replaced the patriarchate with a Holy Synod, making the church a department of his government.\n\nJustinian I conquered the Italian peninsula in the Gothic War (535–554) and appointed the next three popes, a practice that would be continued by his successors and later be delegated to the Exarchate of Ravenna. The \"Byzantine Papacy\" was a period of Byzantine domination of the papacy from 537 to 752, when popes required the approval of the Byzantine Emperor for episcopal consecration, and many popes were chosen from the \"apocrisiarii\" (liaisons from the pope to the emperor) or the inhabitants of Byzantine Greece, Byzantine Syria, or Byzantine Sicily.\n\nWhen Henry VIII of England declared the Church of England to exist as an entity separate from and independent of the Roman Church, he declared himself to be the \"Supreme Head\" of that church, to which declaration the English Parliament acceded by passing the Act of Supremacy 1534 at Henry's behest. When Elizabeth I restored royal supremacy, she replaced the title \"Supreme Head\" with that of \"Supreme Governor\", a change both conciliatory to English Catholics on a political level and reflecting a shift toward a more metaphysically and theologically modest stance involving only a claim to supreme authority over the Church of England's conduct in temporal matters. Since then, the monarchs of England, of Great Britain, and of the United Kingdom have claimed the \"Supreme Governor\" status as well as the title of \"Defender of the Faith\" (which was originally bestowed on Henry VIII by Pope Leo X but later revoked by Pope Paul III).\n\n"}
{"id": "28327982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28327982", "title": "Central Election Commission of Moldova", "text": "Central Election Commission of Moldova\n\nThe Central Election Commission of the Republic of Moldova (, commonly abbreviated as CEC) is a permanent collegiate body of the Moldovan government.\n\n"}
{"id": "51522360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51522360", "title": "Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014", "text": "Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014\n\nThe Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014 is an Act of the Scottish Parliament passed on 19 February 2014 and received royal assent on 27 March 2014. Tue legislation is part of the Scottish Government's Getting it right for every child policy implementation.\n\nThe scope of the act as described in its long title is to make provision:\n\nIn the course of legal proceedings on the part of The Christian Institute and others who were concerned with information privacy law, and who challenged provisions of the act, the judgments of the Court of Session in Edinburgh and, on appeal, of the Supreme Court in Westminster referred to the Data Protection Act 1998, the EU Data Protection Directive, and the European Convention on Human Rights. The Court of Session upheld the provisions of the act, but was overruled by the Supreme Court's decision that the provisions were defective and were not in the Parliament's legislative competence, and therefore could not be brought into force.\n\nThe key provisions of the Act include:\n\nA government document published in June 2014 described the Scottish Government’s overarching plans for implementing the Act and stated that the named person provisions in Part 4 were then currently focused on developing guidance in relation to the \"GIRFEC\" approach.\n\nThe Act has generated controversy, and in \"The Christian Institute and others (Appellants) v The Lord Advocate\" ([2016] UKSC 51), the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom ruled that certain data sharing provisions of the Act were in breach of the right to respect for private and family life prescribed in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, meaning the Scottish Parliament must amend the Act in order for it to become law. The Scottish Conservatives and Scottish Liberal Democrats have called for the Act to be repealed and Scottish Labour, whilst initially supportive of the Act, have called for a 'pause'. A Survation poll has found that 64% of Scottish adults are opposed to the Named Person provisions of the Act.\n\nThe appeal to the Supreme Court was from the Opinion of the Inner House of the Court of Session (delivered 3 September 2015) on a reclaiming motion ([2015] CSIH 64) between seven parties as petitioners and reclaimers, namely, The Christian Institute, Family Education Trust, The Young Me Sufferers (\"TYMES\"), Christian Action Research and Education (\"CARE\") (four registered charities with an interest in family matters), and three individual parents, against The Scottish Ministers as respondent. The Inner House refused an appeal from Lord Pentland's decision, as Lord Ordinary. Lord Pentland had refused a petition for judicial review (lodged 11 July 2014), holding that the named person service provisions in Part 4 of the 2014 Act were within the devolved competence of the Scottish Parliament and did not contravene fundamental common law rights, or the European Convention, or the EU law on data protection.\n\nThe Opinion of the Inner House, which the Supreme Court's judgment overruled, was that the legislation was in accordance with the law, had a legitimate aim and was necessary in a democratic society in the interests of, amongst other things, public safety, the prevention of crime, the protection of health or morals or of the rights of others. The Inner House's Opinion was based on observing that the legislation was intended to provide for every child a suitably qualified professional able, if necessary, to act as a single point of contact with any public service from which the child could benefit, and that this would have no effect whatsoever on the legal, moral or social relationships within the family, and, further, that the legislation did not involve the state taking over any functions currently carried out by parents in relation to their children, and would not permit any interference with a parent’s or child’s right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, nor bear upon a child’s right to education or his parent’s right to bring up a child according to his conscience and religion.\n\nThe proceedings and judgments were mainly concerned with provisions in Part 4 of the Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014, including ten sections that had not then been brought into force under section 102, namely,\n\nWhen allowing the appeal, the Supreme Court, following the precedent of its ruling in \"Salvesen v Riddell\" ([2013] UKSC 22), invited the parties to produce, within the period of 42 days from 28 July (expiring in early September), written submissions on the terms of an order that the Court could make under 102(2)(b) of the Scotland Act 1998 to allow the Scottish Parliament and the Scottish Ministers an opportunity to correct the defects which the Court had identified, but the Court stated that in the meantime, since the defective provisions were not within the legislative competence of the Parliament, they could not be brought into force.\n\nThe Scottish Government announced on 8 September a process involving the offices of the Children's Commissioner and the Information Commissioner in order to address the concerns raised by the Supreme Court, including development of a code of practice to set out how information should be shared under the legislation, with the intention of working towards a commencement date for the legislation of August 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "3106343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3106343", "title": "Chiong murder case", "text": "Chiong murder case\n\nThe Chiong murder case (\"People of the Philippines vs. Francisco Juan Larrañaga et al.\") was an incident on July 16, 1997 in Cebu, in which sisters Marijoy and Jacqueline Chiong allegedly were kidnapped, raped, and murdered. Francisco Juan \"Paco\" Larrañaga (b. 1977), a man of dual Filipino and Spanish citizenship was, along with six others, convicted of murder, and sentenced to death by lethal injection on February 3, 2004. Capital punishment in the Philippines has since been abolished.\n\nBut with further studies and clarifications, this case is considered flawed. There is contestedly no solid evidence against Larrañaga.\n\nAccording to the prosecutors, at 10:00 p.m. on July 16, 1997, Larrañaga and six other defendants kidnapped the Chiong sisters near a mall on the island of Cebu in the Philippines, raped them, and then threw one of the sisters into a ravine (This was later disputed as there was no formal identification of the body, and later thought not to be the body of one of the sister's.) The other sister was never found. The prosecutors' case against Larrañaga centered on the testimony of a co-defendant, Davidson Valiente Rusia. In exchange for blanket immunity, he testified. The trial court only permitted Larrañaga's counsel to cross-examine Rusia for half an hour, despite the fact that Rusia's direct testimony lasted for days. In that half-hour, Larrañaga's counsel established that Rusia had lied to the prosecution and the court concerning his prior convictions. While Rusia had claimed he had never been convicted of crime, in fact he had a record of burglary and forgery. Rusia fainted when confronted with this evidence. Davidson Rusia is a convicted felon who was a gang member and was sentenced to prison twice in the United States for other crimes. Rusia claimed that he was with Larrañaga in Ayala Center, Cebú early in the evening of July 16, the evening Larrañaga says that he was at R&R Restaurant in Quezon City with his friends. Rusia was not known to Larrañaga and only appeared as a \"state witness\" 10 months after the event.\n\nThirty five witnesses, including Larrañaga's teachers and classmates at the Center for Culinary Arts (CCA) in Quezon City, testified under oath that he was in Quezon City, when the crime is said to have taken place in Cebu. However, the trial court considered these testimonies irrelevant, rejecting these as coming from \"friends of the accused,\" and they were not admitted. During his trial in the Cebu Regional Trial Court (RTC) Branch 7, defense lawyers sought to present evidence of his whereabouts on the evening of the crime—that Larrañaga, at that time 19 years old, was at a party at the R&R Restaurant along Katipunan Avenue, Quezon City, and stayed there until early morning the following day. After the party, the logbook of the security guard at Larrañaga's condominium indicates that Larrañaga returned to his Quezon City condominium at 2:45 a.m.\n\nRowena Bautista, an instructor and chef at the culinary center, said Larrañaga was in school from 8 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and saw him again at about 6:30 p.m on July 16. The school's registrar, Caroline Calleja, said she proctored a two-hour exam where Larrañaga was present from 1:30 p.m. Larrañaga attended his second round of midterm exams on July 17 commencing at 8 a.m. Only then did Larrañaga leave for Cebu in the late afternoon of July 17, 1997.\n\nAirline and airport personnel also came to court with their flight records, indicating that Larrañaga did not take any flight on July 16, 1997, nor was he on board any chartered aircraft that landed in or departed from Cebu during the relevant dates, except the 5 p.m. PAL flight on July 17, 1997 from Manila to Cebu.\n\nNevertheless, the Supreme Court upheld the conviction of the accused without reasonable doubt.\n\nThe seven co-defendants were convicted of murder and sentenced to death by lethal injection on February 3, 2004.\n\nLarrañaga's counsels Felicitas Aquino Arroyo and Sandra Marie Olaso Coronel urged the high court to admit the \"amicus curiae\" from the Basque Bar Council (BBC), Barcelona Bar Associations (BBA) and Bar Association of Madrid. The three organizations expressed their interests in the case of Larrañaga since he was a \"Spanish citizen with origins in the Basque Country, and therefore a member of the European Union.\" The BBA mentioned that the execution of a Spanish citizen would be in breach of the violation of the principle of reciprocity in international law, noting that if a Filipino citizen is found guilty in Spain, no Spanish court would have imposed the death penalty, nor would have allowed him extradited to any country imposing capital punishment. Former Ambassador Sedfrey Ordóñez claims he is the victim of a mistrial.\n\nFair Trials International (FTI), an NGO working on behalf of those who face a miscarriage of justice in a country other than their own, entered an \"amicus\" brief which was submitted to the Supreme Court of the Philippines by the European Commission's Manila delegate. The \"amicus\" argued that under both international and Philippine law, Larrañaga had been the subject of an unfair trial and had never been given the opportunity to show his innocence. FTI has since represented Larrañaga before the United Nations, appealing against injustice in the Philippines. Sarah de Mas, spokesperson for FTI who brought the case to the attention of the European Parliament and successive presidencies of the European Union, stated that Larrañaga had served a lengthy sentence for a crime he could not have committed.\n\nYears after the verdict, questions still linger, and there is dissatisfaction with the outcome of events on both sides.\n\nOn June 24, 2006, capital punishment was abolished in the Philippines.\n\nOn December 3, 2007, Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Ángel Moratinos stated that Spain will be \"happy\" if Larrañaga spends his life sentence in a jail \"here\" as the Treaty on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons comes into force: \"We don't know when this will happen. We have no time period. We feel happy that Mr. Larrañaga can come back with this treaty.\" The treaty, which will allow convicted persons of either country to return to his home country and spend his sentence there, was ratified by the Philippines—17 affirmative and two abstentions—on November 26. The Philippines has signed similar treaties with Canada, Cuba, Hong Kong, and Thailand.\n\nLarrañaga is the son of Spanish pelotari Manuel Larrañaga and Filipino Margarita González, and, through his mother, is a member of the influential Osmeña clan of Cebu. Philippine Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago said that, \"Larrañaga's case could be covered by the treaty only if the Supreme Court issued a final ruling on his conviction, which remained on appeal before the high tribunal\".\n\nIn September 2009, the Department of Justice approved Larrañaga's transfer to a Spanish prison. Thelma Chiong, the mother of the victims, expressed shock over the decision, saying that, despite Larrañaga's Spanish citizenship, \"If you committed a crime in the Philippines, you are jailed in the Philippines,\" despite the fact that this would constitute a breach of the treaty and thus of international law. Chief Presidential Legal Counsel Raúl González himself expressed concern that the Philippines might be branded a rogue state if it did not comply with the provisions of the treaty.\n\nLarrañaga, escorted by two Spanish Interpol agents, left for Spain on October 6, 2009. His good behavior at the New Bilibid Prison was taken into consideration, and he will serve the rest of his sentence at the Madrid Central Penitentiary at Soto del Real. According to Philippine Justice Secretary Agnes Devanadera, Philippine law will continue to be observed for the remainder of Larrañaga's prison term. Dionisio Chiong, the father of the victims, said in Cebuano, \"I'm tired. The family is tired of this case. We fought to get a conviction but the government clearly wanted to bring him to Spain. We can't beat the government.\" He also expressed resentment that he and his wife only learned about Larrañaga's departure through the media.\n\nLess than a week after Larrañaga's transfer, two Filipinos incarcerated in the Philippines stated their wish to also serve the rest of their sentences in Spain under the provisions of the treaty. A supporter of Larrañaga has also sought a reinvestigation of the murder case in order to clear the six other convicts.\n\nThelma Chiong expressed the possibility of her and her husband, Dionisio, visiting Larrañaga in Spain. Larrañaga, born in 1977, will be 61 when he is released.\n\nFilm adaptations\n"}
{"id": "26415899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26415899", "title": "Cindrich &amp; Company", "text": "Cindrich &amp; Company\n\nCindrich & Company is an international company in sports and entertainment, expert witness services, mediation, and arbitration, founded in 1981 by former NFL player, long-time NFL agent and licensed attorney Ralph Cindrich. Headed by Cindrich, the company acts as lead negotiator and counsel on the buying and selling of sports businesses and agencies. As an agent, Cindrich represents professional athletes and acts as consultant to third parties. Cindrich also provides testimony as an expert witness in sports related litigation and can serve as a neutral third party mediator and/or arbitrator.\n\nAs a linebacker for the Houston Oilers in 1975, Cindrich enrolled in law school at nearby South Texas College of Law, in Houston. While still a member of the Oilers, teammates of Cindrich approached him with legal questions, mostly relating to their NFL contracts and/or marketing agreements. Cindrich occasionally took those “real world” issues into his law classes and found answers or resolutions, which he then relayed to his teammates.\n\nIn 1977—while still in law school—Cindrich received his first exposure in marketing and law by reviewing contracts or issues of former teammates. His first football client was a former teammate at the University of Pittsburgh named Glenn Hyde. Hyde had played professional football in all three professional leagues, as a left guard for the Chicago Fire (1974–1975) and the Charlotte Hornets (1975) of the World Football League, the Chicago Blitz of the United States Football League (1984) and the Denver Broncos, Baltimore Colts, Seattle Seahawks and Kansas City Chiefs of the National Football League (1976–1982, 1985–1987). Cindrich and Hyde had been teammates at the University of Pittsburgh.\n\nUpon graduation (and after his retirement from football), Cindrich practiced criminal and business law in Texas before developing a specialty in sports management. He founded Athletes Of America Inc., a sports management firm, based in Houston in 1978. Over the next few years, Cindrich would represent a handful of players who had made the transition from college to the NFL, including several from the University of Pittsburgh and the University of Arkansas.\n\nIn addition to negotiating marketing deals and contracts for players, Cindrich applied his legal expertise to an important NFL case when fellow Western Pennsylvania native Tom Brzoza approached Cindrich for legal counsel in the fall of 1978. Brzoza, an All-American center at the University of Pittsburgh, had been selected by his hometown Pittsburgh Steelers in the 11th round of the 1978 NFL Draft. But during a practice session at Three Rivers Stadium in May, just weeks after he had been drafted, Brzoza injured his thumb. (It was later revealed that this practice session violated NFL off-season regulations against conducting practices with shoulder pads. As penalty, the Steelers forfeited their third round draft choice in the 1979 draft.)\n\nBecause of the injured thumb, Brzoza was forced to switch from center to guard and the Steelers subsequently released Brzoza on August 7, 1978, shortly after training camp began. On behalf of his client, Cindrich argued that the injured thumb—as a result of the Steelers violation—kept Brzoza from entering camp at full health and thus was a factor in his being cut from the team.\n\nIn September, Cindrich told reporters:\n“We request that Tom be paid his salary because he was denied an opportunity to practice his trade because [he] was injured in an illegal camp of the Steelers, that was in violation of the NFL Constitution.”\nCindrich threatened to sue for damages and after months of negotiating—and one-on-one meeting between Cindrich and Steelers owner Art Rooney—the two sides reached a settlement in early March 1979:\n“We’re still friends,” Cindrich told reporters. “The Steelers are the Cadillac of the NFL. We left with a great deal of respect for them. They don’t give anything away, but they’re fair. They’re gentleman. Both sides thought the settlement was extremely fair. Both sides are fortunate the way it worked out.”\nIn 1981 Cindrich returned to his native Western Pennsylvania and brought his management firm (now renamed Cindrich & Company) with him. That same year, Cindrich landed his first big-name client, Mark May, the offensive tackle from, the University of Pittsburgh who the Washington Redskins selected May with their first round pick (20th overall) in the 1981 NFL Draft. After tough negotiations that summer with the Redskins General Manager Bobby Bethard, May signed with the team in late July putting to rest rumors that he would bolt to the Canadian Football League. Cindrich continues to represent May in all his television contracts.\n\nBy the 1985 NFL Draft, Cindrich & Company would represent two top prospects: Al Toon from the University of Wisconsin and Bill Fralic from the University of Pittsburgh. During ESPN’s televised coverage of the draft, Mel Kiper Jr. stated:\n“We’ll see what an impact Ralph Cindrich has on this draft right away. I think Minnesota wanted (Bill) Fralic. I know, you talk about Indianapolis, they would have taken Al Toon but he (Cindrich) wrote a letter to Irsay stating that he didn’t want Toon to play with the Colts. Same with Minnesota. So we’ll see if those teams shy away from Fralic and Toon. We will see if Cindrich has a direct impact on the draft.” \nCindrich told the press that Fralic would not want to play for the Minnesota Vikings, who held the second overall pick, because of the team’s negotiating history. On Draft Day, the Vikings traded their pick to the Atlanta Falcons for a 1st and 3rd round selection. The Atlanta Falcons then selected Fralic, who signed the most lucrative contract for any lineman in the draft, including the top overall pick, Buffalo’s Bruce Smith. The \"Atlanta Journal & Atlanta Constitution\" reported that:\n“Fralic’s contract is so lucrative that it has caused slowdown in the next eleven picks below him in the first round of the draft. No other Number 1 has such an annuity package nor a present value this high. Defensive end Bruce Smith, the draft’s No. 1 pick, signed a $2.8 Million contract for the Buffalo Bills, which is worth $2.1 million in present value. When Fralic signed Monday and first reports of the numbers leaked out, agent Joe Courrege immediately upped the demand for Texas A&M defensive end Ray Childress, the draft’s No. 3 selection.” \nThe New York Jets selected Toon with the 10th overall pick. He held out, and still without a contract by late August, Cindrich publicly suggested that the Jets trade Toon. But by Week 2 of the regular season (after New York lost 31-0 to the Los Angeles Raiders), Toon signed a deal reportedly worth $1.6 million over five years, including a signing bonus worth $475,000. The deal paid him more money than any other receiver drafted in 1985, including the San Francisco 49ers first round selection, Jerry Rice.\n\nIn the 1988 NFL draft, Cindrich represented University of Wisconsin Offensive Tackle Paul Gruber, who the Tampa Bay Buccaneers selected Gruber with the 4th overall pick in the draft. Gruber missed four weeks of training camp but signed a five year, $3.8 million deal with the team in early August. That month, \"The Sporting News\" declared Cindrich’s negotiations “the most significant contract for any rookie this year” and “the best contract ever signed by an offensive lineman and likely will start a new salary spiral at the position.”\n\nThe next year, Cindrich & Company helped facilitate the now famous \"Herschel Walker trade\" between the Dallas Cowboys and Minnesota Vikings. As part of his new contract with the Vikings, Walker received $1.25 million in cash and other considerations (including a Mercedes-Benz) and more than doubled his previous salary. Cindrich had now negotiated the second and third most lucrative contracts in the NFL. He also achieved considerable salary raises for Pro Bowlers John Offerdahl, linebacker for the Miami Dolphins, Buffalo Bills Shane Conlan (linebacker), Will Wolford (offensive tackle), and Kent Hull (center).\n\nCindrich & Company would go on to represent Pittsburgh Steelers Pro Bowl tight end Eric Green, Washington Redskins Pro Bowl wide receiver Gary Clark, Dallas Cowboys Pro Bowl center Mark Stepnoski. In May 1993, just as the NFL Free Agency boom began, \"USA Today\" called Cindrich “the undisputed free agent champ.”\n\nMulti-million dollar contracts continued throughout the decade. Steelers perennial Pro Bowl center Dermontti Dawson, New York Giants running back Rodney Hampton, quarterbacks Gus Frerotte and Jeff Blake, were a few of Cindrich & Company's clients. During the late 1990s and early 2000s, he represented several of the NFL’s top centers: Dawson, Stepnoski, Hull, Miami Dolphin Tim Ruddy, Tampa Bay Buccaneer Jeff Christy, Baltimore Raven Mike Flynn and Indianapolis Colt Jeff Saturday, and New Orleans Saint LeCharles Bentley.\n\nCindrich & Company was sold to DeBartolo Sports, the agency owned by former NFL owner Eddie DeBartolo, Jr. and Cindrich serves as a consultant to DeBartolo. Nevertheless, he continues to negotiate contracts—through Cindrich & Company—for such notable players as Arizona Cardinals running Back Beanie Wells, Indianapolis Colts All Pro Center Jeff Saturday, and Steelers linebacker James Farrior. Cindrich & Company has also been involved in expanding the field of sports law, developing a study abroad sports law class for students. Cindrich will teach in coordination with the South Texas College of Law during the summer of 2010 in Florence, Italy. He is also planning a legal education sports law class for lawyers at the same time and location.\n\nCindrich & Company represented offensive tackle Will Wolford before the 1986 NFL Draft. The Buffalo Bills selected Wolford with the 20th overall pick and Cindrich negotiated a salary equal to several players drafted in the top 10. In 1993, Cindrich orchestrated Wolford’s free agent signing with Indianapolis, where his contract was worth $7.65 million over three year. Wolford became the highest paid offensive lineman in the NFL. When that contract expired in 1995, Wolford signed a four-year, $10 million with the Pittsburgh Steelers.\n\nMichael Lewis’ book, , which in 2009 was made into a major motion picture starring Sandra Bullock, mentions Wolford’s landmark contract with the Indianapolis Colts. As the man who brokered the deal, Cindrich was also mentioned:\nWolford’s agent, Ralph Cindrich, later said that at least four other teams had been willing to match the Colts’ offer. What had set the Colts apart from the other bidders was a clause they agreed to insert into Wolford’s new contract. It guaranteed that Will Wolford, left tackle, would remain the highest paid player on the Colts’ offense for as long as he played on it. Better paid than the Colts’ running backs, the Colts’ wide receivers, or any of the other acknowledged stars. Even if the Colts went out and got themselves the NFL’s most expensive quarterback, Wolford’s salary would rise to eclipse his, too. “I thought linemen would get a little more money from free agency,” said Wolford later. “But I didn’t think that would happen. I was numb.”\n…The NFL didn’t like the idea of any player having a clause in his contract guaranteeing him more money than his teammates, and it made noises about voiding the deal. That’s when Ralph Cindrich went on the warpath. He asked, pointedly, if the league would have the same reservations if the clause had been in some quarterback’s contract. He accused the league, in the pages of the New York Times, of “discrimination against offensive linemen.” And the NFL let the deal slide, but only after saying no such deal would be permitted in the future. “There’s a mentality about linemen that goes back to high school,” said Cindrich. “When you picked your football team, these were the last guys picked.”\n"}
{"id": "28090735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28090735", "title": "Cindy Bradley", "text": "Cindy Bradley\n\nCindy Lynn Bradley (born December 11, 1977) is an American jazz trumpet and flugelhorn player and composer.\n\nBradley was born in North Tonawanda in upstate New York. She already played piano, but picked up her first trumpet by accident at age nine because it was the only available instrument which she recognized in her teacher's list for school band classes. She began playing traditional jazz as a schoolgirl and went on to gain degrees in jazz studies at Ithaca College in New York state and in jazz trumpet performance at the New England Conservatory in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nBradley released her debut album \"Just a Little Bit\" on her own label in 2007. In 2009, she signed with Les Cutmore's Trippin' N' Rhythm Records and recorded her second, \"Bloom\", with Grammy Award-winning producer Michael Broening at his studio in Phoenix, Arizona. \"Bloom\" won instant critical acclaim and Bradley followed it in 2011 with \"Unscripted\". The hit single from that album, \"Massive Transit\", co-written by Bradley and Broening, remained at No. 1 on the US Billboard Smooth Jazz Songs chart for six weeks. \"Unscripted\" itself topped the Billboard Jazz Albums chart for two weeks.\n\nOften labelled as a smooth jazz artist – although some critics have found her difficult to categorize at all – Bradley cites her major influences in jazz as fellow-trumpet players Freddie Hubbard, Lee Morgan and Blue Mitchell. When she is not touring or playing at jazz festivals, she works as a public elementary school band teacher in New Jersey. Cindy is a longtime vegan and animal rights advocate.\n\nBradley's fifth solo album, \"Natural\", was released in March 2017.\n\n\nAs leader\n\nAs sidewoman\n\n"}
{"id": "153928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153928", "title": "Constable", "text": "Constable\n\nA constable is a person holding a particular office, most commonly in criminal law enforcement. The office of constable can vary significantly in different jurisdictions. A constable is commonly the rank of an officer within the police. Other people may be granted powers of a constable without holding this title.\n\nHistorically, the title comes from the Latin \"comes stabuli\" (attendant to the stables, literally \"count of the stable\") and originated from the Roman Empire; originally, the constable was the officer responsible for keeping the horses of a lord or monarch.\n\nThe title was imported to the monarchies of medieval Europe, and in many countries developed into a high military rank and great officer of State (e.g. the Constable of France, in French \"Connétable de France\", who was the commander-in-chief of all royal armed forces (second to the king) until prime minister Cardinal Richelieu abolished the charge in 1627).\n\nMost constables in modern jurisdictions are law enforcement officers; in the United Kingdom, the Commonwealth of Nations and some Continental European countries, a constable is the lowest rank of police officer (it is also, when preceded by the term 'sworn', used to describe any police officer with arrest and other powers), while in the United States a constable is generally an elected peace officer with lesser jurisdiction than a sheriff. However, in the Channel Islands a constable is an elected office-holder at the parish level.\n\nHistorically, a constable could also refer to a castellan, the officer charged with the defense of a castle. Even today, there is a Constable of the Tower of London.\n\nAn equivalent position is that of Marshal, which derives from Old High German \"marah\" \"horse\" and \"schalh\" \"servant\", and originally meant \"stable keeper\", which has a similar etymology. \n\nIn Australia, as in the United Kingdom, constable is the lowest rank in most police services. It is often categorised into the following from lowest to highest: probationary constable, constable, constable first class, senior constable, leading senior constable. These variations depend on the individual state/territory police force in question.\n\nSenior constable generally refers to a police officer of the rank above constable and is denoted by way of two chevrons/stripes.\n\nThe New South Wales Police Force has three grades of senior constable, namely senior constable (two chevrons), incremental senior constable (two chevrons and a horizontal bar) and leading senior constable (two chevrons and two horizontal bars). A senior constable is senior to a constable but junior to an incremental senior constable. promotion to senior constable can occur after a miniumum of five years service, one year as a probationary constable in addition to four years as constable and then upon passing probity checks and an exam. Incremental senior constable is attained after ten years of service automatically. One is appointed the rank of leading senior constable on a qualification basis but must have a minimum of seven years service amongst other criteria in order to be eligible. Leading senior constable is a specialist position of which there are limited allocated numbers within any section/unit or local area command. If an officer is transferred to another duty type or station, the officer is then relieved of the position of leading senior constable. It is primarily a position for field training officers who oversee the training and development of inexperienced probationary constables or constables.\n\nWithin Victoria Police, a senior constable is the rank above a constable while above a senior constable is a leading senior constable. When first introduced into Victoria Police, the leading senior constable was a classification not a rank, somewhat like \"detective\". Leading senior constables were appointed specifically to assist in the training and mentoring of more junior members. The last round of wage negotiations however saw leading senior constable become a rank in its own right, one that a lot of members will pass on their way from constable to sergeant though it's not strictly necessary and is permissible to be promoted to sergeant direct from senior constable. The general form of address for both senior constable and leading senior constable is \"senior\" and this is acceptable even in courts.\n\nIn Canada, as in the United Kingdom, constable is the lowest rank in most police services, including the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.\nIn Newfoundland the provincial police are the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary whereby all officers are addressed by the term \"constable.\" In addition, the chief officers of some municipal police services in Canada, notably Vancouver Police Department, carry the title of Chief Constable\n\nIn Canadian French, constable is translated to \"agent\", except in the Royal Canadian Mounted Police where it is translated as \"Gendarme\".)\n\nAppointments can further be separated into:\n\nIn the Danish armed forces the ranks \"Konstabel\", \"Overkonstabel\" and \"Overkonstabel af 1. grad\" are used for professional enlisted soldiers, sailors and airmen. The rank is more or less equal to a Private (rank), Private 1st class (rank) and Lance corporal (rank) but higher than the rank \"menig\" which literally translates into \"private\" and only applies to drafted soldiers.\n\nIn the Finnish Police, the lowest rank of police officer is called \"nuorempi konstaapeli\", translated into English as (Junior) Constable.\nThe next rank is \"vanhempi konstaapeli\" or Senior Constable.\nThe next highest rank (equivalent to a Police Sergeant in the English-speaking world) is \"ylikonstaapeli\" (\"yli-\" \"leading\"), literally \"Over-Constable\".\n\nThe Hong Kong Police Force have two ranks for constables:\n\n\nSenior Constable is not a rank – it is merely a designation for officers who have served for 18 years.\n\nPolice constable (abbreviated PC) is the lowest police rank in India, followed by head constable. General law and order being a state subject in India, each state government recruits police constables. A police constable has no shoulder insignia, while a head constable has one strip or one chevron, depending upon the state. All senior officers are Indian Police Service officers appointed through civil services exam.\nSince each state has its own police force, the uniforms and insignia of the police vary, though the rank structure is the same. The central paramilitary forces under the Ministry of Internal Affairs also maintain the same ranks as state police even though their jurisdiction varies considerably. All the police constables wear khaki-coloured uniforms which indicate that he/she is a police officer.\n\nIn the Norwegian Police Service the rank \"politikonstabel\" was until 2003 the lowest rank in the police, the next ranks being \"politioverkonstabel\", \"politibetjent\", \"politiførstebetjent\", \"politioverbetjent\" and \"politistasjonssjef\", \"lensmann\" or \"sysselmannsoverbetjent\" (all officially translated as chief superintendent). In 2003, the ranks \"politikonstabel\", \"politioverkonstabel\" and \"politibetjent\" were renamed \"politibetjent 1\", \"politibetjent 2\" and \"politibetjent 3\", where \"politibetjent 1\" is the entry-level rank for a policeman and most junior rank of the police service. All ranks higher than chief superintendent are commissioned ranks, known simply as \"higher ranks,\" and traditionally required a law degree. The Norwegian Police Service has an integrated prosecution service in which the police lawyers, who all hold higher ranks, require the law degree \"candidatus/candidata juris\" or \"Master of Laws\" (\"master i rettsvitenskap\"), awarded after 5 or 6 years of law studies. Following reforms of the police, a law degree is no longer required by law for all higher ranks, although only lawyers can act as prosecutors and supervise criminal investigations, for which reason it is still common for those holding higher ranks to be lawyers. The entry-level rank for a lawyer, Junior Police Prosecutor, outranks the most senior rank for a policeman, Chief Superintendent, as the former is the most junior of the \"higher ranks\" whereas the latter is the most senior of the \"lower ranks.\"\n\nThe fire brigades (all municipal) still use \"konstabel\" as in \"brannkonstabel\" (fire-constable).\n\nIn Pakistan, constable and head constable are, respectively, the lowest and second lowest ranks in police force.\n\nIn Singapore, a police constable (abbreviated to PC) is the lowest rank in the Singapore Police Force. The rank of Special Constable exists, but is centralised under the Special Volunteer Constabulary in Singapore.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, the Sri Lanka Police has the rank of \"Police Constable\" with four classes.\n\nIn the modern times, there are two main definitions of a constable in the United Kingdom:\nThe latter usage is mainly used in formal contexts, including legislation such as the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984. By this definition, all police officers are constables, even those that do not hold the actual rank of constable. Thus the head of most police forces is a chief constable, volunteer officers of any rank are known as special constables and some police forces have the word \"Constabulary\" in their name. There are also some constables who are not police officers, such as cathedral constables and Cambridge University constables.\n\nWithin the police itself, there are three eponymous offices bearing the legal power of constable: Police Constable, Detective Constable and Special Constable. The former two of these are paid, mostly full-time positions, while those holding the role of Special Constable volunteer their time unpaid and do so around their normal working commitments. The ranks of Police Constable and Detective Constable are often abbreviated in everyday use to PC and DC respectively. From 1919 when they were first recruited in the UK, female police officers were distinguished from their male counterparts by the prefix 'woman' before their rank (WPC or WDC). This was officially discontinued in 1999, although is still sometimes used informally by members of the public.\n\nConstable is the first rank, one rank below a sergeant and five ranks below chief superintendent in all police forces in the United Kingdom.\n\nWithin the British Police all police officers are sworn in as and hold the basic powers of a constable. Upon being sworn in, each officer starts at the rank of constable and is required to undergo a two-year probationary period. Upon successful completion, constables can remain at their current rank, specialise in criminal investigations or one of many other specialist units, or apply for promotion to sergeant, the first supervisory rank. Constables wear an epaulette attached to the uniform, displaying their collar number (also called a shoulder number). Within Greater London's Metropolitan Police, all constables and sergeants display a divisional call sign, as well as an individual number.\n\nA new probationary constable within a county police force is paid an annual salary of £23,259, with this rising to £25,962 after training, reaching a ceiling level of £36,519. Constables within the Metropolitan Police Service are paid an additional London weighting allowance which is currently set at £2,277.\n\nThe first female constables were employed by railway constabularies during World War I with for example the North East Railway Police swearing in four in late 1917 The term Woman Police Constable was used across British forces.\n\nThe rank of detective constable (DC) is a special type but not senior to that of a uniformed constable; the 'detective' prefix identifies the officer as being part of CID or other investigative unit.\n\nFrom 1673 to 1831, a special constable was a citizen who was appointed to act as constable on special occasions, such as to quell a riot. In 1831 this evolved to a permanent volunteer police force. Special constables generally had powers within a designated area. However, legislation changed to give them identical powers as constables that are no longer regional but are enforceable across England and Wales.\n\nDuring World War II, there was an additional volunteer War Reserve Police introduced in 1939, consisting at its height in 1944 of 17,000 War Reserve constables (or WRC, War Reserve Police Constable, WRPC). The rank of WRC/WRPC was dissolved on 31 December 1948, and most of these were then recruited for service as regular or special constables.\n\nHead constable is a title for a police sergeant in some Commonwealth police forces. It was also previously a senior rank in the Royal Irish Constabulary, with authority lying somewhere between the ranks of Inspector and Superintendent in later British and Irish police forces.\n\nLegislation existed to appoint constables, but often did not direct how such bodies should operate and what organisational form they should take. The Police Act 1964 standardised arrangements through establishing wider geographical police forces, which merged many constabularies. The Police Act 1964 gave direction on the organisational form of police forces, the appointment of officers and disciplinary matters; in the broadest sense it provided a statutory governance framework. The Act established the 'tripartite' model of policing, which formed police authorities. This established a three-way balance of power between the Authority's Chairman, the Chief Constable and the Home Secretary. This arrangement varied within London for the Metropolitan Police and the City of London Police.\n\nThe Police Act 1964 was superseded by the Police Act 1996, which contained similar provisions. Further legislation was introduced for the British Transport Police and the Civil Nuclear Constabulary that was similar in defining their organisational form and embedding governance arrangements.\n\nLegislation still exists to appoint constables that are not technically part of a police force. For example, local authorities can appoint constables to enforce parks by-laws and such officers are employed by the local authority.\n\nLegislation provides for the appointment of constables to police ports, tunnels, Oxford and Cambridge Universities, Epping Forest, Anglican cathedrals (Cathedral constables), and markets. Such bodies are often referred to as 'private constabularies'.\n\nLegislation exists that allows for three main categories of state officer to have the powers of constable, without being sworn in as such.\n\n4.National Crime Agency (formerly SOCA) can also designate their officers with the power of a constable (as well as the specific powers of an Immigration Officer or Customs. Being given the power of a constable gives such individuals lawful excuse to carry offensive weapons and firearms while on duty).\n\nIn Jersey and Guernsey, the elected heads of the Parishes (\"paroisse(s)\" in French) are titled \"constables\" (\"connétable(s)\" in French). The constables are entitled each to carry a silver-tipped baton of office.\n\nIn Jersey, each parish elects a constable for a three-year mandate to run the parish and also represent the parish in the legislature, the States of Jersey. The constable presides over the Roads Committee, the Conseil Paroissial (Parish Council, the only exception being St. Helier) and Parish Assemblies. The twelve constables also collectively sit as the Comité des Connétables (Committee of Constables). The constable is the titular head of the Honorary Police. With the Roads Inspectors, Roads Committee and other officers, the constable of each parish also carries out the \"visites du branchage\" twice a year.\n\nIn Guernsey, each parish elects two constables, the senior constable and the junior constable. Persons elected generally serve a year as junior and then senior constable. The senior constable presides over the Douzaine (Dozen) that runs the parish. The constables are responsible for enforcing the \"brancage\" (summer hedge-cutting) and also have the power to declare any parishioner insane.\n\nIn the United States, there is no consistent use of the office of constable throughout the states, and use may even vary within a state. A constable may be an official responsible for service of process: such as summonses and subpoenas for people to appear in court in criminal and/or civil matters. On the other hand, they can be fully empowered law enforcement officers. Constables may also have additional specialized duties unique to the office. In some states, a constable may be appointed by the governor or a judge or magistrate of the court which he or she serves; in others the constable is an elected or appointed position at the state or local level of local government. Their jurisdiction can vary from statewide to county/parish and local township boundaries based on the state's laws.\n\nThe office developed from its British counterpart during the colonial period. Prior to the modernization of law enforcement which took place in the middle 19th century, local law enforcement was performed by constables and watchmen. Constables were appointed or elected at the local level for specific terms and, like their UK counterparts the parish constable, were not paid and did not wear a uniform. However, they were often paid a fee by the courts for each writ served and warrant executed. Following the example of the British Metropolitan Police established in 1829, the states gradually enacted laws to permit municipalities to establish police departments. This differed from the UK in that the old system was not uniformly abolished in every state. Often the enacting legislation of the state conferred a police officer with the powers of a constable, the most important of these powers being the common law power of arrest. Police and constables exist concurrently in many jurisdictions. Perhaps because of this, the title \"constable\" is not used for police of any rank. The lowest rank in a police organization would be officer, deputy, patrolman, trooper, and historically, private, depending on the particular organization.\n\nIn many states, constables do not conduct patrols or preventive policing activities. In such states the office is relatively obscure to its citizens.\n\nA constable may be assisted by deputy constables as sworn officers or constable's officers as civil staff, usually as process servers. In some states, villages or towns, an office with similar duties is marshal.\n\nThe titles of \"sparapet\" and \"spaspet\", derived from the ancient Iranian \"spahbod\", were used to designate the supreme commander of the armed forces in the medieval kingdoms of Armenia and Georgia, respectively.\n\nThe position of constable originated from the Roman Empire; by the 5th century AD the Count of the Stable () was responsible for the keeping of horses at the imperial court. The West European term \"constable\" itself was adopted, via the Normans, as \"konostaulos\" in the Komnenian and Palaiologan periods, when it became a high military office of dignity.\n\nLate Roman administrative titles were used by Charlemagne in developing his empire; the position of Constable, along with the similar office of Marshal, spread throughout the emerging states of Western Europe during this period. In most medieval nations, the constable was the highest-ranking officer of the army, and was responsible for the overseeing of martial law.\n\nVillage-level Chinese officialsknown as \"tingzhang\" during the Qin and Han dynasties, \"lizheng\", during the Sui and Tang, \"baozheng\" during the Song, and \"dibao\" and \"shoubao\" during the Qingare sometimes translated constable for their functions of reporting crimes and administering local justice, although they also served as tax agents and notaries.\n\nThe Constable of France (\"Connétable de France\"), under the French monarchy, was the First Officer of the Crown of France and was originally responsible for commanding the army. His symbol of office was a longsword held by a hand issuing out of a cloud, a reference to the constable's duty of carrying the king's sword during a coronation ceremony. Some constables were prominent military commanders in the medieval period, such as Bertrand du Guesclin who served from 1370 to 1380.\n\nThe office of the constable was introduced in England following the Norman Conquest of 1066 and was responsible for the keeping and maintenance of the king's armaments and those of the villages as a measure of protecting individual settlements throughout the country. Some authorities place the origins of constables in England earlier, attributing the creation of the office during the reign of King Alfred (871, A.D.).\n\nThe office of Lord High Constable, one of the Great Officers of State, was established in the kingdoms of England and Scotland during the reigns of King Stephen (1135–1154) and King David (1124–1154) respectively, and was responsible for the command of the army. The term was also used at the local level within the feudal system however, describing an officer appointed to keep order. One of the first descriptions of one of the legal duties of a constable, that of the collation of evidence, comes from Bracton, a jurist writing between 1220 and 1250:\nIn whatever way they come and on whatever day, it is the duty of the constable to enroll everything in order, for he has record as to the things he sees; but he cannot judge, because there is no judgment at the Tower, since there the third element of a judicial proceeding is lacking, namely a judge and jurisdiction. He has record as to matters of fact, not matters of judgment and law. In Bracton's time, anyone seeing a \"misdeed\" was empowered to make an arrest. The role of the constable in Bracton's description was as the \"eyes and ears\" of the court, finding evidence and recording facts on which judges could make a ruling. By extension, the constable was also the \"strong arm\" of the court (i.e., of the common law), marking the basic role of the constable that continues into the present day.\n\nIn 1285, King Edward I of England passed the Statute of Winchester, with provisions which \"constituted two constables in every hundred to prevent defaults in towns and [on] highways\". Records of their narrower area successors, parish constables, appear in the early 17th century in the records of Buckinghamshire; traditionally they were elected by the parishioners, but from 1617 onwards were typically appointed by justices of the peace (magistrates) in each county.\n\nThe system of policing by unpaid parish constables continued in England until the 19th century; in the London metropolitan area it was ended by the creation of the Metropolitan Police by the Metropolitan Police Act 1829, and by the County Police Constabularies outside London by the County Police Act 1839. Together these led to all counties having various constabularies of full-time professionals. The lowest rank of the police forces and constabularies is \"constable\", and most outside London are headed by a chief constable.\n\nThe unique office of 'Parks Constable' was first created when Liverpool Corporation Act 1921 (Section 221) allowed for their appointment; although a body of constables had previously policed the parks whom were attested as special constables. Specific legislation for the Royal Parks of London continued the unique office of 'Parks Constable'. However, the Royal Parks Constabulary was disbanded in 2001. The Kew Constabulary are sworn in under the same legislation and remain as the holders of the office of Parks Constable. Whilst some local authorities have parks constabularies, their officers are attested as constables, not parks constables.\n\nThe position of hereditary constable persists in some current or former monarchies of Europe. The position of Lord High Constable of Scotland is hereditary in the family of the Earl of Erroll. There is also a hereditary constable of Navarre in Spain; this position is presently held by the Duchess of Alba.\n\nHistorically, many other hereditary constables existed as officers of state in former monarchies. Examples are the Constable of Castile (\"Condestable de Castilla\") and the Constable of Portugal (\"Condestável do Reino\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22358475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22358475", "title": "Corporate tax in the Netherlands", "text": "Corporate tax in the Netherlands\n\nCorporate tax in the Netherlands deals with the tax payable in the Netherlands on the profits earned by companies. In general, a Dutch company is subject to 25% corporate tax (\"vennootschapsbelasting\") on its worldwide profits. However, certain items of income are exempt from tax and certain costs are non-deductible.\n\nA Dutch company is subject to Dutch corporate tax on its worldwide profits, after taking into account tax deductible costs. \n\nThe 2013 Dutch corporate tax rate was 20% of the taxable income up to and including €200,000, above which the rate is 25%.\n\nCertain items of income are exempt from Dutch corporate tax. The most important items of income that are exempt are:\n\n\nCapital gains, dividends and profit participation loan interest derived from a qualifying subsidiary are fully exempt from corporate tax in the Netherlands (\"participation exemption\"). A subsidiary qualifies for the Dutch participation exemption when:\n\n\nAny income received by a Dutch company from a foreign branch is exempt from Dutch corporate tax, provided such branch is a permanent establishment or representative.\n\nThe Netherlands has been known internationally, since at least the 1970s, as a tax haven. A political debate about this issue started in 1977, when economist and social-democratic MP Flip de Kam published a book about corporations transferring large sums to Caribbean countries without paying Dutch corporate tax. Minister Van der Stee admitted that the country was internationally known as a tax haven, but refused to act, arguing that the problem could not be solved on a national level alone. The debate raged for years; in 1986, Representative Willem Vermeend estimated that the country's tax service missed some ƒ4 billion per year due to companies such as The Rolling Stones' holding bv's using the \"Caribbean route\".\n\nDutch tax laws have brought the country into conflict with the European Union several times, starting with strong criticism in the 1999 Primarolo Report. The Dutch government responded by having a group of high-ranking fiscal experts (known with the Ministry of Finance as the \"Barbapapa group\") create a smoke screen, changing the appearance of the fiscal system while leaving its structure intact.\n\nStarting 2009, the \"tax haven\" label resurfaced and sparked political controversy when the White House issued a press release in which the Netherlands was mentioned as tax haven.\nAccording to various NGO's the Netherlands \"can be seen as an intermediary tax haven for foreign corporations\". In February 2013, the Dutch House of Representatives accepted a motion calling on cabinet members to \"reject, and where possible in discussions to insist on not mentioning\" the qualification of the country as a tax haven; the motion was drafted by MP Roland van Vliet, a former tax advisor with Ernst & Young.\nEconomist estimated that at the time of the motion, the state earned some €1.5 billion in tax from €12 thousand billion being transferred through the country annually.\n\n, the country harbors holding companies for various multinationals, participates in more than a hundred bilateral tax treaties, and the various exemptions facilitate tax avoidance by corporations.\n\nIn June 2014 the EU initiated a new investigation relating to the Dutch corporate taxes as part of a State aid (European Union) case by the Directorate General for Competition. The case was specific to Starbucks. \nThe investigation ended in October 2015, with the EC ordering Starbucks to pay up to €30 million in overdue taxes. The EC exposed in its decision a legal structure commonly used by companies established in the Netherlands to avoid corporate taxation, the so called Dutch BV-CV structure.\nIn 2017, the EU initiated another State aid (European Union) investigation into a special deal on corporate taxation between the Dutch public administration and IKEA. \n\nNational and foreign companies known to have special agreements with the Dutch tax service include Starbucks, Microsoft and PostNL. A 2015 FOI request by \"de Volkskrant\" to unearth the agreements failed, because these secret agreements are not centrally administered by the Tax and Customs Administration; with even the House of Representatives not having access to them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58625", "title": "Court-martial", "text": "Court-martial\n\nA court-martial or court martial (plural \"courts-martial\" or \"courts martial\", as \"martial\" is a postpositive adjective) is a military court or a trial conducted in such a court. A court-martial is empowered to determine the guilt of members of the armed forces subject to military law, and, if the defendant is found guilty, to decide upon punishment. In addition, courts-martial may be used to try prisoners of war for war crimes. The Geneva Convention requires that POWs who are on trial for war crimes be subject to the same procedures as would be the holding military's own forces. Finally, courts-martial can be convened for other purposes, such as dealing with violations of martial law, and can involve civilian defendants.\n\nMost navies have a standard court-martial which convenes whenever a ship is lost; this does not presume that the captain is suspected of wrongdoing, but merely that the circumstances surrounding the loss of the ship be made part of the official record. Most military forces maintain a judicial system that tries defendants for breaches of military discipline. Some countries like France and Germany have no courts-martial in times of peace and use civilian courts instead.\n\nCourt-martial is hyphenated in US usage, whether used as a noun or verb. However, in British usage, a hyphen is used to distinguish between the noun, \"court martial\", and the verb, \"to court-martial\".\n\nUsually, a court-martial takes the form of a trial with a presiding judge, a prosecutor and defensive counsel (all trained lawyers as well as officers) and (in some cases) a panel of officers (and sometimes enlisted personnel) acting as jury. The precise format varies from one country to another and may also depend on the severity of the accusation.\n\nCourts-martial have the authority to try a wide range of military offences, many of which closely resemble civilian crimes like fraud, theft or perjury. Others, like cowardice, desertion, and insubordination, are purely military crimes. Military offences are defined in the Armed Forces Act 2006 for members of the British Military. Regulations for the Canadian Forces are found in the Queen's Regulations and Orders as well as the National Defence Act. For members of the United States armed forces offenses are covered under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). These offences, as well as their corresponding punishments and instructions on how to conduct a court-martial, are explained in detail based on each country and/or service.\n\nIn Canada, there is a two-tier military trial system. Summary trials are presided over by superior officers, while more significant matters are heard by courts martial, which are presided over by independent military judges serving under the independent Office of the Chief Military Judge. Appeals are heard by the Court Martial Appeal Court of Canada. Capital punishment in Canada was abolished generally in 1976, and for military offences in 1998. Harold Pringle was the last Canadian soldier executed, in 1945, for a military offence.\n\nIn Finland, the military has jurisdiction over two types of crimes: those that can be committed only by military personnel and those normal crimes by military persons where both the defendant and the victim are military persons or organizations and the crime has been defined in law as falling under military jurisdiction. The former category includes e.g. various types of disobedience and absence without leave, while the latter category includes e.g. murder, assault, theft, fraud and forgery. However, war crimes and sexual crimes are not under military jurisdiction.\n\nIn crimes where the military has jurisdiction, the military conducts the investigation. In non-trivial cases, this is done by the investigative section of Defence Command or by civilian police, but trivial cases are investigated by the defendant's own unit. The civilian police has always to right to take the case from the military.\n\nIf the case does not warrant a punishment greater than a fine or a disciplinary punishment, the punishment is given summarily by the company, battalion or brigade commander, depending on severity of the crime. If the brigade commander feels that the crime warrants a punishment more severe than he can give, he refers the case to the local district attorney who commences prosecution.\n\nThe crimes with military jurisdiction are handled by the civilian district court which has a special composition. In military cases, the court consists of a civilian legally trained judge and two military members: an officer and a warrant officer, an NCO or a private soldier. The verdict and the sentence are decided by a majority of votes. However, the court cannot give a more severe sentence than the learned member supports. The appeals can be made as in civilian trials. If a court of appeals handles a military matter, it will have an officer member with at least a major's rank. The Supreme Court of Finland has, in military cases, two general officers as members.\n\nCourts-martial proper are instituted only during a war, by the decree of the government. Such courts-martial have jurisdiction over all crimes committed by military persons. In addition, they may handle criminal cases against civilians in areas where ordinary courts have ceased operation, if the matter is urgent. Such courts-martial have a learned judge as a president and two military members: an officer and an NCO, warrant officer or a private soldier. The verdicts of a war-time court-martial can be appealed to a court of appeals.\n\nThe Basic Law (Grundgesetz) (adopted after the Second World War in 1949) establishes in Art. 96 para. 2 that courts-martial can be established by federal law. Such courts-martial would take action in a State of Defense (Verteidigungsfall) and only against soldiers abroad or at sea. However, no such law has been passed to date and German soldiers are tried exclusively before civil courts.\n\nThere are four kinds of courts-martial in India. These are the General Court Martial (GCM), District Court Martial (DCM), Summary General Court Martial (SGCM) and Summary Court Martial (SCM). According to the Army Act, army courts can try personnel for all kinds of offenses, except for murder and rape of a civilian, which are primarily tried by a civilian court of law. Higher government authorities do not deal with the military doctrines.\nThe President of India can use his judicial power, (Article 72), to give either pardon, reprieve, respite or remission of punishment or sentence given by a court martial.\n\nThe Egyptian government has been criticized for putting civilians on military trials.\n\nIn Luxembourg, there are three levels of military jurisdiction:\n\nIn the Netherlands, members of the military are tried by a special military section of the civilian court in Arnhem. This section consists of a military member and two civilian judges. The decision whether or not to prosecute is primarily made by the (civilian) attorney general.\n\nUnder the Singapore Armed Forces Act, any commissioned officer is allowed to represent servicemen when they are tried for military offences in the military courts. The cases are heard at the Court-Martial Centre at Kranji Camp II. Some of the early day courts martial in Singapore include CPT G. R. Wadsworth due to use of insubordination language and in the modern day misbehaviours by conscripted servicemen.\n\nThe Court Martial is one of the Military Courts of the United Kingdom. The Armed Forces Act 2006 establishes the Court Martial as a permanent standing court. Previously courts-martial were convened on an \"ad hoc\" basis with several traditions, including usage of swords. The Court Martial may try any offence against service law. The Court is made up of a Judge Advocate, and between three and seven (depending on the seriousness of the offence) officers and warrant officers. Rulings on matters of law are made by the Judge Advocate alone, whilst decisions on the facts are made by a majority of the members of the court, not including the Judge Advocate, and decisions on sentence by a majority of the court, this time including the Judge Advocate.\n\nMost commonly, courts-martial in the United States are convened to try members of the U.S. military for violations of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), which is the U.S. military's criminal code. However, they can also be convened for other purposes, including military tribunals and the enforcement of martial law in an occupied territory. Courts-martial are governed by the rules of procedure and evidence laid out in the Manual for Courts-Martial, which contains the Rules for Courts-Martial, Military Rules of Evidence, and other guidance. There are three types: Special, Summary, and General.\n\nIn Herman Melville's novella \"Billy Budd\" (first published 1924), the title character is convicted at a drumhead court-martial of striking and killing his superior officer on board HMS \"Indomitable\", is sentenced to death, and is hanged. The novella has been adapted for the stage, film and television; notably in Benjamin Britten's 1951 opera \"Billy Budd\".\n\nIn C. S. Forester's 1938 novel \"Flying Colours\", Captain Horatio Hornblower is court-martialed for the loss of HMS \"Sutherland\". He is \"most honourably acquitted\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2787858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2787858", "title": "Economics and patents", "text": "Economics and patents\n\nPatents are legal instruments intended to encourage innovation by providing a limited monopoly to the inventor (or their assignee) in return for the disclosure of the invention. The underlying assumption is that innovation is encouraged because an inventor can secure exclusive rights, and therefore a higher probability of financial rewards in the market place. The publication of the invention is mandatory to get a patent. Keeping the same invention as a trade secret, rather than disclose by publication, could prove valuable well beyond the time of any limited patent term, but at the risk of congenial invention through third party.\n\nThe patent system is designed to encourage innovation. This is because patents, by conferring rights on the owner to exclude competitors from the market, presumably offer the incentive for people to study new technology.\n\nIn some fields, particularly pharmaceuticals, it is also argued that the monopoly of the patent in the market allows the owner recover the huge expenses invested in the research and development phase.\n\nWhile patent offices in the economically advanced world have numerous procedures in effect to determine the validity and proper scope of a patent application, nevertheless some patents still issue that are not an advance on the existing state-of-the-art, or would otherwise be invalid if challenged. The system corrects these mistakes by maintaining the right to nullify inappropriately issued patents. However, only very small fraction of patent disputes ever go to court because of high litigation costs. A study in 2005 showed that among 200,000 patents that are issued every year, only 1.5 percent of patents are ever litigated, and only 0.1 percent of patents are ever litigated to trial. This means the majority of patent disputes are either overlooked or settled privately. While private settlement is a cost-effective way to balance the commercial interests of two firms, the public does not benefit from it. Because of the \"private\" nature of such settlements, there is no open discussion that would clarify the scope of rights under a particular patent and the opportunity to invalidate the patent is lost. Other competitors do not benefit, and costs across the industry are not reduced.\n\nEconomists Mark Lemley and Carl Shapiro argued that the patent granting process should be rethought because there are inherent uncertainties with the system. Uncertainty in patents can be found in the two fundamental dimensions:\nModeling the patents as probabilistic rights is helpful in bringing down the social costs of the system, while continuing to encourage innovation and technology dissemination.\n\nThe patent system affects the economy as a whole. The benefits of new results, once the research is publicly known, are available to all in the relevant field, thereby bringing advantages to all parties in that field, though reducing the direct return to the party performing the pioneering research. This reduces economic incentive for a party to conduct research and innovate. \n\nThe effects of patents on a given market may vary widely according to the type of market, and whether there are other barriers to entry (e.g., business methods versus regulated medications).\n\nEven in socialist monopole economies, the adherence to international patent laws was or becomes strict, as the effect is reciprocal for public economy, as soon as the level of technology development in these economies creates comparable advantage.\n\nHowever, since patents essentially encourage innovation by giving owners the right to monopolize the market for a limited time, the public will suffer from the patents that are not innovative by paying a supracompetitive cost.\n\nAnother dilemma regarding the patent system’s effectiveness is that if the validity and scope were unclear at the issuance, it will always be corrected because other competitors will cause the case to the court and then we could either reevaluate the scope through discussion or invalidate the patent for public good. However, studies of the USPTO data showed that only very few patents are litigated to trial.\n\nFarrell and Merges (2004) pointed out that two reasons have kept individual firms accused of patent infringement from challenging the patent's holders. The first one is the public good problem, which means that once the patent is nullified, the competitors of the accused firm will benefit from the outcome. The other reason is that in many cases they can pass-through the uniform royalty costs in the form of higher prices.\n\nThe economics surrounding a single patent, or group of patents, revolves around the balance between the expense of maintaining the patent(s), and the income derived from owning that/those patents. Similarly the economics of whether to seek a patent present similar concerns with the added up-front costs of obtaining the patent.\n\nThe grant of a patent provides the inventor temporarily with an exclusive legal right, thereby securing a means to redeem the costs of research (by charging a higher price for its invention or by license fees from others who wish to practice it).\n\nA patent is an exclusionary right – preventing others from entering the market – and so its effect may be to increase the patent proprietor's income from that market. The major economic effect is the exclusivity period of the patent rights, when exploitation pays back for the enterprise that funded research and development. However, patenting alone does not guarantee for marketing success.\n\nThe right to exclude others from entering market with copies is, however, potentially extremely valuable as it can mean total exclusivity in that market for the duration of the patent (generally 20 years from filing). For example, worldwide sales of a patented pharmaceutical can be millions of dollars per day, whereas the generic equivalent would later sell for less than half the price.\n\nIncome improvement from a patent is difficult to measure. One may attempt to measure the difference in price between an \"improved\" product and its \"unimproved\" counterpart, or compare the price of the product with that in markets where (or when) it has not been patented. More directly measurable income is that which is received from the licensing or sale of patent rights, or from successful litigation of infringement.\n\nUnder traditional patent doctrine, innovation is spurred by patent law in at least two ways. (1) The inventor can secure exclusive rights, and therefore working on innovation gives the inventor a higher probability of financial rewards in the market place. (2) Publishing the invention, rather than keeping it a trade secret allows others to build upon the technology. Both of these have been challenged based upon economic analysis. The \"rewards\" theory has been criticized as ignoring the risky prospective nature of the \"reward\", and the post patent costs of cost-engineering and marketing. The \"publication of the patent as spurring innovation\" branch has been criticized indicating that it produces patent thickets and encouraging others to design \"around\" existing technology rather than to build upon it.\n\nAs early as 1986, empirical research into the effect of patent law on innovation found \"its effects in this regard are very small in most of the industries we studied\". In 2013, Boldrin and Levine concluded that \"while patents can have a partial equilibrium effect of improving incentives to invent, the general equilibrium effect on innovation can be negative.\" Other patent modeling research suggests that rather than encouraging innovation, patents can hinder development, lower R&D investments, and decrease overall economic output.\n\nPatents are not intrinsically valuable, in the sense that a patent is not economically an \"end in itself.\" Rather, a patent claiming an invention with market demand would likely have economic value because the patent holder can exclude others from making, importing, using, and offering for sale, or selling that invention throughout the jurisdiction (the U.S.A. for example ) and sell the product at a monopoly price. Without alternative suppliers for the patented good or technology, the price the patentee is able to charge would likely be greater than the competitive price (the price in a competitive equilibrium). This portion of incremental profit would only be attributable to the patent and would therefore be the value of the patent.\n\nPatent value, like value of other property, may fluctuate over time, as markets change. What was once a pioneering invention may be soon outsold by an unpatented (and non-infringing) competitor catering to fringe adopters with products having features even more desirable than the invention. Contrarily, a strong patent grip could stagnate a narrow market as innovation is no longer justified, eventually resulting in reduced demand (for outmoded and over-priced products), and thus reduced patent value, as the market moves away.\n\nA particularly difficult question of value arises where inventors/owners use their patents to extract other advantages without actually marketing the invention (e.g., cross-licensing of related patents to avoid litigation, or suppressing a technology that could compete with the owner's other products). How can one determine the value of a patented product (and the underlying patent) that has not actually been produced, let alone sold in any quantity? Furthermore, many products incorporate numerous patented inventions (owned or licensed), and may carry exclusive trademarks, making it difficult to attribute a specific value to an individual patent. Would the same invention be as valuable if owned and marketed under a weak brand?\n\nIn 2005, the European Commission published a comprehensive study of the value of patents for patent owners as well as for the European economy. The study was in part based on a survey of 20,000 patent owners who applied for EPO patents between 1993 and 1997. The survey was performed in 2003. 9000 patent owners responded. The patent owners were asked how much effort was required to produce their inventions and how much monetary value their patents had been worth. The median effort to create the patentable invention was 1 person-year, with 10% of the patent owners requiring 2 or more person-years. The median value of the patents produced was €300,000, with 10% of patent owners reporting values of €10 million Euros or more.\n\nIn certain cases, patents may be valued using the techniques developed for financial options, as applied via a real options framework. The key parallel is that a patent provides its owner the right to exclude others from using the underlying invention, so both patents and stock options represent a right to exploit an asset in the future, and to exclude others from using it. The patent (option) will have value to the buyer (owner) only to the extent that the expected price in the future exceeds the opportunity cost of earning just as much in a risk-less alternative. Thus patent rights can be thought of as corresponding to a call option and may be valued correspondingly. See Option pricing approaches under Business valuation for further discussion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10400673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10400673", "title": "Edgar David Villanueva", "text": "Edgar David Villanueva\n\nDr Edgar David Villanueva Núñez is a politician and congressman in the Republic of Peru. He is best known for introducing a bill to mandate use of free software in public agencies. The introduction of the Bill 1609 invited the attention of Microsoft,\nto whose letter Dr Villanueva wrote a famous reply.\nA bill that mandates consideration of open source software was passed into law in October 2005.\n\nBoth the Bill and Dr Villanueva's letter have been widely cited by pro-active governments and Free Software activists as a convincing rationale behind the introduction of Free Software in Governments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39856688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39856688", "title": "Egyptian Constitution of 1956", "text": "Egyptian Constitution of 1956\n\nThe Constitution of 1956 was the constitution of Egypt from 23 June 1957 to 1958 and from 1961 to 1964. It replaced the Constitution of 1923 and was replaced by the Constitution of 1958. \n"}
{"id": "87187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87187", "title": "European Court of Justice", "text": "European Court of Justice\n\nThe European Court of Justice (ECJ), officially just the Court of Justice (), is the supreme court of the European Union in matters of European Union law. As a part of the Court of Justice of the European Union it is tasked with interpreting EU law and ensuring its equal application across all EU member states. \n\nThe Court was established in 1952 and is based in Luxembourg. It is composed of one judge per member state – currently 28 – although it normally hears cases in panels of three, five or 15 judges. The court has been led by president Koen Lenaerts since 2015.\n\nThe court was established in 1952, by the Treaty of Paris (1951) as part of the European Coal and Steel Community. It was established with seven judges, allowing both representation of each of the six member States and being an odd number of judges in case of a tie. One judge was appointed from each member state and the seventh seat rotated between the \"large Member States\" (West Germany, France and Italy). It became an institution of two additional Communities in 1957 when the European Economic Community (EEC), and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) were created, sharing the same courts with the European Coal and Steel Community.\n\nThe Maastricht Treaty was ratified in 1993, and created the European Union. The name of the Court did not change unlike the other institutions. The power of the Court resided in the Community pillar (the first pillar).\n\nThe Court gained power in 1997 with the signing of the Amsterdam Treaty. Issues from the third pillar were transferred to the first pillar. Previously, these issues were settled between the member states.\n\nFollowing the entrance into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 December 2009, the ECJ's official name was changed from the \"Court of Justice of the European Communities\" to the \"Court of Justice\" although in English it is still most common to refer to the Court as the European Court of Justice. The Court of First Instance was renamed as the \"General Court\", and the term \"Court of Justice of the European Union\" will officially designate the two courts, as along with its specialised tribunals, taken together.\n\nThe ECJ is the highest court of the European Union in matters of Union law, but not national law. It is not possible to appeal the decisions of national courts to the ECJ, but rather national courts refer questions of EU law to the ECJ. However, it is ultimately for the national court to apply the resulting interpretation to the facts of any given case. Although, only courts of final appeal are bound to refer a question of EU law when one is addressed. The treaties give the ECJ the power for consistent application of EU law across the EU as a whole.\n\nThe court also acts as arbiter between the EU's institutions and can annul the latter's legal rights if it acts outside its powers.\n\nThe judicial body is now undergoing strong growth, as witnessed by its continually rising caseload and budget. The Luxembourg courts received more than 1,300 cases when the most recent data was recorded in 2008, a record. The staff budget also hit a new high of almost €238 million in 2009, while in 2014 €350 million was budgeted.\n\nThe Court of Justice consists of 28 Judges who are assisted by 11 (as of 05/10/2016) Advocates-General. The Judges and Advocates-General are appointed by common accord of the governments of the member states and hold office for a renewable term of six years. The treaties require that they are chosen from legal experts whose independence is \"beyond doubt\" and who possess the qualifications required for appointment to the highest judicial offices in their respective countries or who are of recognised competence. 37% of judges had experience of judging appeals before they joined the ECJ. In practice, each member state nominates a judge whose nomination is then ratified by all the other member states.\n\nThe President of the Court of Justice is elected from and by the judges for a renewable term of three years. The president presides over hearings and deliberations, directing both judicial business and administration (for example, the time table of the Court and Grand Chamber). He also assigns cases to the chambers for examination and appoints judge as \"rapporteurs\" (reporting judges). The Council may also appoint assistant \"rapporteurs\" to assist the President in applications for interim measures and to assist \"rapporteurs\" in the performance of their duties.\n\nThe post of vice-president was created by amendments to the Statute of the Court of Justice in 2012. The duty of the Vice-President is to assist the President in the performance of his duties and to take the President's place when the latter is prevented from attending or when the office of president is vacant. In 2012, judge Koen Lenaerts of Belgium became the first judge to carry out the duties of the Vice-President of the Court of Justice. Like the President of the Court of Justice, the Vice-President is elected by the members of the Court for a term of three years.\n\nThe judges are assisted by eleven Advocates General, whose number may be increased by the Council of the Court so requests. The Advocates General are responsible for presenting a legal opinion on the cases assigned to them. They can question the parties involved and then give their opinion on a legal solution to the case before the judges deliberate and deliver their judgment. The intention behind having Advocates General attached is to provide independent and impartial opinions concerning the Court's cases. Unlike the Court's judgments, the written opinions of the Advocates General are the works of a single author and are consequently generally more readable and deal with the legal issues more comprehensively than the Court, which is limited to the particular matters at hand. \n\nThe opinions of the Advocates General are advisory and do not bind the Court, but they are nonetheless very influential and are followed in the majority of cases. In a 2016 study, Arrebola and Mauricio measured the influence of the Advocate General on the judgments of the Court, showing that the Court is approximately 67% more likely to deliver a particular outcome if that was the opinion of the Advocate General. As of 2003, Advocates General are only required to give an opinion if the Court considers the case raises a new point of law.\n\nAccording to Article 255 TFUE the judges and advocates-general are appointed by common accord of the governments of the Member States after consultation of a panel responsible for assessing candidates’ suitability.\n\nThe Registrar is the Court's chief administrator. They manage departments under the authority of the Court's president. The Court may also appoint one or more Assistant Registrars. They help the Court, the Chambers, the President and the Judges in all their official functions. They are responsible for the Registry as well as for the receipt, transmission and custody of documents and pleadings that have been entered in a register initialled by the President. They are Guardian of the Seals and responsible for the Court's archives and publications. \n\nThe Registrar is responsible for the administration of the Court, its financial management and its accounts. The operation of the Court is in the hands of officials and other servants who are responsible to the Registrar under the authority of the President. The Court administers its own infrastructure; this includes the Translation Directorate, which, employed 44.7% of the staff of the institution.\n\nThe Court can sit in plenary session, as a Grand Chamber of fifteen judges (including the president and vice-president), or in chambers of three or five judges. Plenary sittings are now very rare, and the court mostly sits in chambers of three or five judges. Each chamber elects its own president who is elected for a term of three years in the case of the five-judge chambers or one year in the case of three-judge chambers.\n\nThe Court is required to sit in full court in exceptional cases provided for in the treaties. The court may also decide to sit in full, if the issues raised are considered to be of exceptional importance. Sitting as a Grand Chamber is more common and can happen when a Member State or a Union institution, that is a party to certain proceedings, so requests, or in particularly complex or important cases.\n\nThe court acts as a collegial body: decisions are those of the court rather than of individual judges; no minority opinions are given and indeed the existence of a majority decision rather than unanimity is never suggested.\nThe idea behind European Union legislation is that each Member State shall incorporate into its own domestic law the principles laid down in the Union legislation. It is the responsibility of the Court of Justice to ensure that the law is observed in the interpretation and application of the Treaties of the European Union and of the provisions laid down by the competent Community institutions To enable it to carry out that task, the Court has broad jurisdiction to hear various types of action. The Court has competence, among other things, to rule on applications for annulment or actions for failure to act brought by a Member State or an institution, actions against Member States for failure to fulfil obligations, references for a preliminary ruling and appeals against decisions of the General Court. \n\nUnder Article 258 (ex Article 226) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice may determine whether a Member State has fulfilled its obligations under Union law. \n\nThat action may be brought by the Commission – as is practically always the case – or by another Member State, although the cases of the latter kind remain extremely rare. As of 2012, only four interstate cases have been decided by the court: \n\nThe commencement of proceedings before the Court of Justice is preceded by a preliminary procedure conducted by the Commission, which gives the Member State the opportunity to reply to the complaints against it. The court has decided that if the European Commission does not send the formal letter to the violating member state no-one can force them. If that procedure does not result in termination of the failure by the Member State, an action for breach of Union law may be brought before the Court of Justice. \n\nIf the Court finds that an obligation has not been fulfilled, the Member State concerned must terminate the breach without delay. If, after new proceedings are initiated by the Commission, the Court of Justice finds that the Member State concerned has not complied with its judgment, it may, upon the request of the Commission, impose on the Member State a fixed or a periodic financial penalty.\n\nBy an action for annulment under Article 263 (ex Article 230) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the applicant seeks the annulment of a measure (regulation, directive or decision) adopted by an institution. The Court of Justice has exclusive jurisdiction over actions brought by a Member State against the European Parliament and/or against the Council (apart from Council measures in respect of State aid, dumping and implementing powers) or brought by one Community institution against another. The General Court has jurisdiction, at first instance, in all other actions of this type and particularly in actions brought by individuals. The Court of Justice has the power to declare measures void under Article 264 (ex Article 231) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.\n\nUnder Article 265 (ex Article 232) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice and the General Court may also review the legality of a failure to act on the part of a Union institution. However, such an action may be brought only after the institution has been called on to act. Where the failure to act is held to be unlawful, it is for the institution concerned to put an end to the failure by appropriate measures.\n\nUnder Article 268 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (and with reference to Article 340), the Court of Justice hears claims for compensation based on non-contractual liability, and rules on the liability of the Community for damage to citizens and to undertakings caused by its institutions or servants in the performance of their duties.\n\nUnder Article 256 (ex Article 225) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, appeals on judgments given by the General Court may be heard by the Court of Justice \"only if\" the appeal is on a point of law. If the appeal is admissible and well founded, the Court of Justice sets aside the judgment of the General Court. Where the state of the proceedings so permits, the Court may itself decide the case. Otherwise, the Court must refer the case back to the General Court, which is bound by the decision given on appeal.\n\nReferences for a preliminary ruling are specific to Union law. Whilst the Court of Justice is, by its very nature, the supreme guardian of Union legality, it is not the only judicial body empowered to apply EU law.\n\nThat task also falls to national courts, in as much as they retain jurisdiction to review the administrative implementation of Union law, for which the authorities of the Member States are essentially responsible; many provisions of the Treaties and of secondary legislation – regulations, directives and decisions – directly confer individual rights on nationals of Member States, which national courts must uphold.\n\nNational courts are thus by their nature the first guarantors of Union law. To ensure the effective and uniform application of Union legislation and to prevent divergent interpretations, national courts may, and sometimes must, turn to the Court of Justice and ask that it clarify a point concerning the interpretation of Union law, in order, for example, to ascertain whether their national legislation complies with that law. Petitions to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling are described in Article 267 (ex Article 234) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.\n\nA reference for a preliminary ruling may also seek review of the legality of an act of Union law. The Court of Justice's reply is not merely an opinion, but takes the form of a judgment or a reasoned order. The national court to which that is addressed is bound by the interpretation given. The Court's judgment also binds other national courts before which a problem of the same nature is raised.\n\nAlthough such a reference may be made only by a national court, which alone has the power to decide that it is appropriate do so, all the parties involved – that is to say, the Member States, the parties in the proceedings before national courts and, in particular, the Commission – may take part in proceedings before the Court of Justice. In this way, a number of important principles of Union law have been laid down in preliminary rulings, sometimes in answer to questions referred by national courts of first instance.\n\nIn the ECJ's 2009 report it was noted that Belgian, German and Italian judges made the most referrals for an interpretation of EU law to the ECJ. However, the German Constitutional Court has rarely turned to the European Court of Justice, which is why lawyers and law professors warn about a future judicial conflict between the two courts. On February 7, 2014, the German Constitutional Court referred its first and only case to the ECJ for a ruling on a European Central Bank program.\n\nThe constitutional courts of the member-states have in general been reluctant to refer a question to the European Court of Justice.\n\nThese are the first references by each constitutional court:\n\nProcedure before the ECJ is determined by its own rules of procedure. As a rule the Court's procedure includes a written phase and an oral phase. The proceedings are conducted in one of the official languages of the European Union chosen by the applicant, although where the defendant is a member state or a national of a member state the applicant must choose an official language of that member state, unless the parties agree otherwise.\n\nHowever the working language of the court is French and it is in this language that the judges deliberate, pleadings and written legal submissions are translated and in which the judgment is drafted. The Advocates-General, by contrast, may work and draft their opinions in any official language, as they do not take part in any deliberations. These opinions are then translated into French for the benefit of the judges and their deliberations.\n\nAll the EU's judicial bodies are based in Luxembourg City, separate from the political institutions in Brussels and Strasbourg. The Court of Justice is based in the Palais building, currently under expansion, in the Kirchberg quarter of Luxembourg City.\n\nLuxembourg City was chosen as the provisional seat of the Court on 23 July 1952 with the establishment of the European Coal and Steel Community. Its first hearing there was held on 28 November 1954 in a building known as Villa Vauban, the seat until 1959 when it would move to the Côte d'Eich building and then to the Palais building in 1972.\n\nIn 1965, the member states established Luxembourg City as the permanent seat of the Court. Future judicial bodies (Court of First Instance and Civil Service Tribunal) would also be based in the city. The decision was confirmed by the European Council at Edinburgh in 1992. However, there was no reference to future bodies being in Luxembourg City. In reaction to this, the Luxembourgian government issued its own declaration stating it did not surrender those provisions agreed upon in 1965. The Edinburgh decision was attached to the Amsterdam Treaty. With the Treaty of Nice Luxembourg attached a declaration stating it did not claim the seat of the \"Boards of Appeal of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market\" – even if it were to become a judicial body.\n\nOver time ECJ developed two essential rules on which the legal order rests: direct effect and primacy. The court first ruled on the direct effect of primary legislation in a case that, though technical and tedious, raised a fundamental principle of Union law. In Van Gend en Loos (1963), a Dutch transport firm brought a complaint against Dutch customs for increasing the duty on a product imported from Germany. The court ruled that the Community constitutes a new legal order, the subjects of which consist of not only the Member States but also their nationals. The principle of direct effect would have had little impact if Union law did not supersede national law. Without supremacy the Member States could simply ignore EU rules. In Costa v ENEL (1964), the court ruled that member states had definitively transferred sovereign rights to the Community and Union law could not be overridden by domestic law.\n\nAnother early landmark case was Commission v Luxembourg & Belgium (1964), the \"Dairy Products\" case. In that decision the Court comprehensively ruled out any use by the Member States of the retaliatory measures commonly permitted by general international law within the European Economic Community. That decision is often thought to be the best example of the European legal order's divergence with ordinary international law. Commission v Luxembourg & Belgium also has a logical connection with the nearly contemporaneous Van Gend en Loos and Costa v ENEL decisions, as arguably it is the doctrines of direct effect and supremacy that allow the European legal system to forego any use of retaliatory enforcement mechanisms by the Member States.\n\nFurther, in the 1991 Francovich case, the ECJ established that Member States could be liable to pay compensation to individuals who suffered a loss by reason of the Member State's failure to transpose an EU directive into national law.C-6/90\n\nSome MEPs and industry spokesmen have criticised the ruling against the use of gender as factor in determining premiums for insurance products. British Conservative MEP Sajjad Karim remarked, \"Once again we have seen how an activist European Court can over-interpret the treaty. The EU's rules on sex discrimination specifically permit discrimination in insurance if there is data to back it up\".\n\nThe status and jurisdiction of the ECJ has been questioned by representatives of member states' judiciary:\n\nThe ECJ has also been criticised for spending too much money. As examples of overspending the critics refer to the building of the Luxembourg courthouse in 2009 that cost €500 million and the fact that the 28 judges and nine Advocates-General each have a chauffeured car.<br>\n\nIn recent years, the French daily newspaper Libération also revealed alleged practices of patronage and favoritism in the court's recruitment policy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47501811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47501811", "title": "Free Law Project", "text": "Free Law Project\n\nFree Law Project is a United States federal 501(c)(3) nonprofit that provides free access to primary legal materials, develops legal research tools, and supports academic research on legal corpora. Free Law Project has several initiatives that collect and share legal information, including the largest collection of American oral argument audio, daily collection of new legal opinions from 200 United States courts and administrative bodies, the RECAP Project, which collects documents from PACER, and user-generated Supreme Court citation visualizations.\n\nFree Law Project was founded in 2013 by Michael Lissner and Brian Carver with board members Thomas R. Bruce and Jerry Goldman.\n\nFree Law Project has a number of initiatives, including:\n\n\nAll of Free Law Project's work is open source and available online.\n\n"}
{"id": "48981270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48981270", "title": "Free Movement of Workers Regulation 2011", "text": "Free Movement of Workers Regulation 2011\n\nThe Free Movement of Workers Regulation No. is a European Union law, which specifies the right of workers of any European Union Member State to move to and access employment in another Member State without unjustified discrimination.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6804702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6804702", "title": "Frye standard", "text": "Frye standard\n\nThe Frye\" standard, Frye\" test, or general acceptance test is a test to determine the admissibility of scientific evidence. It provides that expert opinion based on a scientific technique is admissible only where the technique is generally accepted as reliable in the relevant scientific community. In \"Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals\", 509 U.S. 579 (1993), the Supreme Court held that the Federal Rules of Evidence superseded \"Frye\" as the standard for admissibility of expert evidence in federal courts. Some states, however, still adhere to the \"Frye\" standard.\n\nThis standard comes from \"Frye v. United States\", 293 F. 1013 (D.C. Cir. 1923), a case discussing the admissibility of systolic blood pressure deception test as evidence. The Court in Frye held that expert testimony must be based on scientific methods that are sufficiently established and accepted. The court wrote:\n\nIn many but not all jurisdictions, the \"Frye\" standard has been superseded by the \"Daubert\" standard. States still following \"Frye\" include: California, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Washington.\n\nDespite several intervening years during which the Daubert standard was followed, on October 15, 2018, the Florida Supreme Court confirmed the state's adherence to the Frye standard. \n\nEffective July 1, 2014, Kansas adopted Daubert and no longer follows the Frye standard.\n\nTo meet the \"Frye\" standard, scientific evidence presented to the court must be interpreted by the court as \"generally accepted\" by a meaningful segment of the associated scientific community. This applies to procedures, principles or techniques that may be presented in the proceedings of a court case.\n\nIn practical application of this standard, those who were proponents of a widely disputed scientific issue had to provide a number of experts to speak to the validity of the science behind the issue in question.\n\nNovel techniques, placed under the scrutiny of this standard forced courts to examine papers, books and judicial precedents on the subject at hand to make determinations as to the reliability and \"general acceptance.\"\n\nWhile Daubert has superseded Frye, the standard of Daubert is not substantially different. While the focus of the inquiry has changed, the result rarely does. Accordingly, the Daubert standard has been described as \"Frye in drag.\"\n\nDifficulty in the application of this standard has produced questions about whether or not the standard is flexible enough to adapt to truly new and novel scientific issues, where \"general\" or \"widespread\" acceptance may not yet be garnered. On the other hand, whether new and novel allegedly scientific issues are matters of relevance to the court has been questioned.\n\nAs an alternative to this standard, the courts have generally adopted Rule 702 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, as the primary for expert testimony and scientific evidence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32536476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32536476", "title": "Geneva Conventions and United Nations Personnel (Protocols) Act 2009", "text": "Geneva Conventions and United Nations Personnel (Protocols) Act 2009\n\nThe Geneva Conventions and United Nations Personnel (Protocols) Act 2009 (c 6) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It was enacted to give effect to the Third Additional Protocol to the Geneva Conventions and to the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel.\n\nThis section amends the Geneva Conventions Act 1957. It came into force on 5 April 2010. It was extended, with modifications, to Guernsey, on 15 January 2011.\n\nThis section amends section 4 of the United Nations Personnel Act 1997. It came into force on 28 July 2010.\n\nThis section came into force on the beginning of 2 July 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19541290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19541290", "title": "Ignorantia juris non excusat", "text": "Ignorantia juris non excusat\n\nIgnorantia juris non excusat or ignorantia legis neminem excusat (Latin for \"ignorance of the law excuses not\" and \"ignorance of law excuses no one\" respectively) is a legal principle holding that a person who is unaware of a law may not escape liability for violating that law merely because one was unaware of its content. \n\nEuropean-law countries with a tradition of Roman law may also use an expression from Aristotle translated into Latin: nemo censetur ignorare legem (nobody is thought to be ignorant of the law) or ignorantia iuris nocet (not knowing the law is harmful).\n\nThe rationale of the doctrine is that if ignorance were an excuse, a person charged with criminal offenses or a subject of a civil lawsuit would merely claim that one was unaware of the law in question to avoid liability, even if that person really does know what the law in question is. Thus, the law imputes knowledge of all laws to all persons within the jurisdiction no matter how transiently. Even though it would be impossible, even for someone with substantial legal training, to be aware of every law in operation in every aspect of a state's activities, this is the price paid to ensure that willful blindness cannot become the basis of exculpation. Thus, it is well settled that persons engaged in any undertakings outside what is common for a normal person, such as running a nuclear power plant, will make themselves aware of the laws necessary to engage in that undertaking. If they do not, they cannot complain if they incur liability.\n\nThe doctrine assumes that the law in question has been properly promulgated—published and distributed, for example, by being printed in a government gazette, made available over the internet, or printed in volumes available for sale to the public at affordable prices. In the ancient phrase of Gratian, \"Leges instituuntur cum promulgantur\" (\"Laws are instituted when they are promulgated\"). In order that a law obtain the binding force which is proper to a law, it must be applied to the men who have to be ruled by it. Such application is made by their being given notice by promulgation. A law can bind only when it is reasonably possible for those to whom it applies to acquire knowledge of it in order to observe it, even if actual knowledge of the law is absent for a particular individual. A secret law is no law at all.\n\nIn criminal law, although ignorance may not clear a defendant of guilt, it can be a consideration in sentencing, particularly where the law is unclear or the defendant sought advice from law enforcement or regulatory officials. For example, in one Canadian case, a person was charged with being in possession of gambling devices after they had been advised by customs officials that it was legal to import such devices into Canada. Although the defendant was convicted, the sentence was an absolute discharge.\n\nIn addition, there were, particularly in the days before satellite communication and cellular phones, persons who could genuinely be ignorant of the law due to distance or isolation. For example, in a case in British Columbia, a pair of hunters were acquitted of game offenses where the law was changed during the period they were in the wilderness hunting. In reaching this decision, the court refused to follow an early English law case in which a seaman on a clipper before the invention of radio was convicted even though the law had been changed while he was at sea (Bailey (1800) Russ & Ry 1).\n\nThe doctrine,\"Ignorance of the law is no excuse,\" first shows up in the Bible in Leviticus 5:17: \"If a person sins and does what is forbidden in any of the LORD's commands, even though he does not know it, he is guilty and will be held responsible.\" An alternate explanation of the origin of the maxim, though not particularly relevant to the modern context, can be found in the philosophy of the Greeks and Romans. Such were cultures heavily influenced by customary legal systems. Within such a system, law is learned as a person participates in the culture and customs of the community. Thus it is unreasonable to believe a person could have avoided learning them. These rules and customs were also interwoven with ethical and religious dialogue so that laws expressed what is right and that which is not. We find that Cicero wrote the following in \"De re publica\" (On the Republic):\n\n\"There is a true law, right reason, agreeable to nature, known to all men, constant and eternal, which calls to duty by its precepts, deters from evil by its prohibition. This law cannot be departed from without guilt. Nor is there one law at Rome and another at Athens, one thing now and another afterward; but the same law, unchanging and eternal, binds all races of man and all times.\"\n\nMinos (attributed to Plato) states the following conversation between Socrates and his companion:\n\n\n\n\n.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPresumed knowledge of the law is the principle in jurisprudence that one is bound by a law even if one does not know of it. It has also been defined as the \"prohibition of ignorance of the law\".\n\nThe concept comes from Roman law, and is expressed in the brocard \"ignorantia legis non excusat\".\n\nThe essential public character of a law requires that the law, once properly promulgated, must apply to anyone in the jurisdiction where the law applies. Thus, no one can justify his conduct on the grounds that he was not aware of the law.\n\nGenerally, a convention exists by which the laws are issued and rendered accessible by methods, authors and means that are simple and well known: the law is readable in certain places (some systems prescribe that a collection of the laws is copied in every local city council), is made by certain authorities (usually sovereign, government, parliament, and derivative bodies), and enters into effect in certain ways (many systems for instance prescribe a certain number of days - often 15 - after issue). This is commonly intended as a constitutional regulation, and in fact many constitutions or statutes exactly describe the correct procedures.\n\nHowever, some recent interpretations weaken this concept. Particularly in civil law, regard can be had to the difficulty of being informed of the existence of a law considering the lifestyle of the average citizen. On the penal side, the quality of the knowledge of the law can affect the evaluation of the animus nocendi or the mens rea, in that certain subjective conditions can weaken personal responsibility.\n\nThe theme was widely discussed, also for political reasons, at the time of the Enlightenment and in the 18th century, given the heavy proportion of illiterate citizens in European countries (who would have some difficulties being aware of all the laws in a country). It was then argued that both the presumed knowledge and the heavily increasing corpus of national legislation were working in favour of lawyers rather than citizens.\n\nIn recent times, some authors have considered this concept as an extension of (or at least as analogous to) the other ancient concept (typical of criminal law) that no one can be punished under a law that was issued after the action was committed (non-retroactivity of the law. See ex post facto). This interpretation is however disputed, given that the matter would hierarchically more properly refer to a constitutional doctrine rather than to a civil or penal one.\n\nSome modern criminal statutes contain language such as stipulating that the act must be done \"knowingly and wittingly\" or \"with unlawful intent,\" or some similar language. However, this does not refer to ignorance of laws, but having criminal intent.\n\nThis principle is also stated in statutes:\n\n\nIn some jurisdictions, there are exceptions to the general rule that ignorance of the law is not a valid defense. For example, under U.S. Federal criminal tax law, the element of \"willfulness\" required by the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code has been ruled by the courts to correspond to a \"voluntary, intentional violation of a known legal duty\" under which an \"actual good faith belief based on a misunderstanding caused by the complexity of the tax law\" is a valid legal defense. See Cheek v. United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "878636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=878636", "title": "John Bradshaw (judge)", "text": "John Bradshaw (judge)\n\nJohn Bradshaw (1602 – 31 October 1659) was an English judge. He is most notable for his role as President of the High Court of Justice for the trial of King Charles I and as the first Lord President of the Council of State of the English Commonwealth.\n\nJohn Bradshaw (sometimes spelt Bradshawe) the second son of Henry Bradshaw and Catherine Winnington was born in 1602 probably at Wybersley (Wyberslegh) Hall in the village of High Lane near Stockport, Cheshire, or possibly at the nearby Peace Farm, Marple (his father farmed at both) and baptised on 10 December in Stockport Church. As a child he attended the free school at Stockport, as well as schools in Bunbury and Middleton. During his teenage years he also attended The King's School, Macclesfield. According to local tradition he wrote the following inscription on a gravestone at either Macclesfield or Bunbury:\n\nHe was articled as clerk to an attorney in Congleton. The White Lion public house bears a blue plaque, placed by the Congleton Civic Society, which reads: \"The White Lion, built 16–17th century. Said to have housed the attorney's office where John Bradshaw, regicide, served his articles.\"\n\nAfter studying English law in London, he was called to the bar at Gray's Inn on 23 April 1627. He served on the provincial bar of Congleton until he became mayor in 1637. John Milton wrote highly of Bradshaw's aptitude during his public service, saying that \"All his early life he was sedulously employed in making himself acquainted with the laws of the country; he then practiced with singular success and reputation at the bar.\"\n\nOn 3 January 1638 he was married to Mary, a daughter of Thomas Marbury.\n\nAt some time between 1640 and 1643, Bradshaw moved from Congleton to Basinghall Street in London. In 1643, he was elected judge of the London sheriff's court. He maintained the post until his death. Following the death of the Earl of Essex in 1646, Parliament voted Somerhill House to Bradshaw. He was appointed a serjeant-at-law by Parliament and in 1648 Chief Justice of Chester and North Wales.\n\nIn 1649 he was made president of the parliamentary commission to try the king. Other lawyers of greater prominence had refused the position.\n\nBradshaw was a controversial choice as Lord President, and opinions of his efficiency as a judge varied. Bulstrode Whitelocke believed that he was \"learned in his profession,\" but Thomas Fuller dismissed him as a man \"of execrable memory, of whom nothing good is remembered.\" The King himself, as well as much of the court, professed to having never heard of him.\n\nBradshaw himself did not attend court until the third session after his appointment, apologising on the grounds that he had been out of London and disavowed his ability to perform \"so important a task.\" While he served as the Lord President, he was flanked by an impressive personal guard and carried a sword at his side. He wore scarlet robes and a \"broad-brimmed, bullet-proof beaver hat, which he had covered over with velvet and lined it with steel and he also wore armour underneath his robes.\" King Charles refused to recognise the authority of the court and would not plead. After declaring Charles I guilty as a \"Tyrant, Traitor, Murderer, and a public enemy,\" Bradshaw did not allow the king any final words. Under English law, a condemned prisoner was no longer alive and therefore did not have the right to speak, and Bradshaw followed this tradition strictly.\n\nOn 12 March 1649 Bradshaw was elected President of the Council of State, which was to act as the Executive of the country's government in place of the King and the Privy Council. \nFrom 1 August 1649, Bradshaw also held the post of Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. As Lord President he conducted trials of leading Royalists and condemned to death by beheading the Duke of Hamilton, Lord Capell, the Earl of Holland and Eusebius Andrews, for which he was well rewarded.\n\nAfter wars in Scotland and Ireland the Long Parliament had still not dissolved itself or called for re-elections. On 30 April 1653, Oliver Cromwell declared Parliament and the Council dissolved and soon assumed rule as Lord Protector calling elections for a new Parliament himself. After that date Bradshaw served as commissioner of the Duchy, jointly with Thomas Fell, until mounting differences with Cromwell culminated in his resignation in 1654.\n\nBradshaw, an ardent Republican, became an opponent of the Protectorate. In 1654 he was elected Member of Parliament (MP) for Stafford and Cheshire but because he refused to sign the recognition pledge put on Members to declare their recognition of the new army-backed government he took no seat for either constituency In 1655 the Major-General in charge of Cheshire, Tobias Bridge, persuaded leading gentry not to enter Bradshaw as the county's parliamentary candidate at elections to the next parliament.\n\nAfter Oliver Cromwell died in 1658, his son Richard succeeded him as Lord Protector and reinstated Bradshaw as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. Bradshaw was elected MP for Cheshire in the Third Protectorate Parliament in 1659. During the same year Bradshaw moved to Westminster after falling dangerously ill with a 'quartan ague' or malaria.\n\nIn October 1659, various subordinate members of the army sabotaged General Lambert's and General Ludlow's support of the Long Parliament. Colonel Morley, Major Grimes, and Colonel Sydenham eventually gained their points, and placed guards both by land and water, to hinder the members of Parliament from approaching the House. During these disorders, the Council of State still assembled at the usual place and the:\n\nHe died on 31 October 1659, aged 57. He was buried with great honours at Westminster Abbey. The eulogy was given by John Rowe. On his deathbed Bradshaw said that if called upon to try the King again he would be \"the first man in England to do it\".\n\nCharles II returned to power in 1660. On 30 January 1661 – the twelfth anniversary of the regicide – the bodies of Bradshaw, Cromwell and Henry Ireton were ordered to be exhumed and displayed in chains all day on the gallows at Tyburn. At sunset, the three bodies that had been displayed publicly as those of the three judges being executed posthumously were all beheaded. The bodies were thrown into a common pit and the heads displayed on pikes at Westminster Hall. Samuel Pepys wrote in his diary that he saw the heads there on 5 February.\n\nSome sources claim that the body of Thomas Bradshaw had previously been removed by his son, James or John Bradshaw, who re-buried his father's remains on a hill near Martha's Brae on Jamaica and marked the spot with a cannon. A location now known as \"Gun Hill\" is 2.5 miles south-west of the northern port city of Falmouth, in Trelawny Parish. One of the three men had children who removed to Highland County, Virginia. James Bradshaw acquired the land in Jamaica where his father's remains were buried. Several sources recorded an inscription with the cannon found on Gun Hill, Jamaica, and associate the quote that \"Rebellion to tyrants is obedience to God\" to John Bradshaw.\n\nWhile some political philosophers have defended Bradshaw, most legal authorities have taken the view expressed in 1999 by Michael Kirby (then a Justice of the High Court of Australia) that the High Court of Justice for the trial of Charles I of which Bradshaw as president was illegal, however in his 2005 book \"The Tyrannicide Brief\" (a biography of John Cook, the prosecutor at the trial), Geoffrey Robertson Q.C. put forward the argument that while the court was illegal due to the political settlement reached at the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660, the trial anticipated the developments in humanitarian law in the second half of the 20th century, and that the leading participants in the trial are to be admired rather than condemned.\n\nBradshaw was played by Stratford Johns in the 1970 historical drama film \"Cromwell\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8953365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8953365", "title": "Judah ben Tabbai", "text": "Judah ben Tabbai\n\nJudah ben Tabbai ( \"Yehuda ben Tabbai\") was a Pharisee scholar, Chief Justice of the Sanhedrin (\"av beit din\"), one of \"the Pairs\" (\"zugot\") of Jewish leaders who lived in first century BCE. Judah ben Tabbai was associated, by some medieval writers, with what later came to be known as Karaite Judaism.\n\nTo escape Alexander Jannaeus's persecution of the Pharisees, Judah ben Tabbai, who was already a prominent Pharisee scholar, fled to Alexandria. After Jannaeus's death in 76 BCE, Salome Alexandra became queen of Judea. The Pharisees now became not only a tolerated section of the community, but actually the ruling class. Salome Alexandra installed as high priest her eldest son, Hyrcanus II, a man who was wholly supportive of the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin was reorganized according to their wishes. This body had hitherto been, as it were, a \"house of lords,\" the members of which belonged to the highest rabbinical court. From this time it became a \"supreme court\" for the administration of justice and religious matters, the guidance of which was placed in the hands of the Pharisees.\n\nAs part of the reorganization, Salome appointed her brother Simeon ben Shetach as prince (\"nasi\") of the Sanhedrin. Simeon ben Shetach wrote a flattering letter to Judah ben Tabbai, who was still in Alexandria, inviting him to return to Jerusalem to become the Chief Justice of the Sanhedrin (\"av beit din\").\n\nAccording to the Torah, if a witness testifies falsely in court against a defendant, the punishment for the false witness is the same as the pubishment would have been for the defendant had he been convicted (Deuteronomy 19:16-21). According to the Talmud (Makkot 5b), the Sadducees held that the false witness is punished only if the defendant has already been punished. However, according to the Pharisees, the false witness could be punished even if the defendant was never punished.\n\nBecause Judah ben Tabbai opposed the Sadducees, in a particular capital case in which a false witness testified, he ordered that the false witness be executed even though the defendant was not punished. According to the Talmud, this was wrong, since, under Pharisaic rules, a false witness could only be punished if there were two or more false witnesses, and in this particular case, only one of the witnesses was deemed to be a false witness. Upon realizing this error, Judah spent time at the grave of the false witness that he ordered to be executed, crying and seeking forgiveness.\n\nAccording to medieval scholars, such as Judah Halevi, Moses ben Elijah Bashyazi, and Solomon Jedidiah ben Aaron, Judah ben Tabbai was the founder of Karaite Judaism. Because Alexander Jannaeus persecuted the Pharisees, and later Salome Alexandra expelled the Sadducees, once Simeon ben Shetach began restoring the Sanhedrin, there was little check on his power. As part of Simeon's reorganization of the Sanhedrin, he introduced new laws that were hitherto unknown, but which he claimed originated with Moses. These new laws came to be known as the Oral Torah. Judah ben Tabbai, on the other hand, continued to apply only the Written Torah, the written law which was known since ancient times. Thus, Simeon and his followers became the founders of Rabbinic Judaism, which is Judaism based on the new Oral Torah, whereas Judah and his followers, and all the Pharisees who continued to follow only the Written Torah, became the founders of Karaite Judaism. This split occurred in approximately 57 BCE.\n\nAmong Judah ben Tabbai's students were the next \"zugot\", namely, Shmaya and Abtalion.\n\nIn Pirkei Avot, Judah ben Tabbai is quoted as saying:\n"}
{"id": "23483326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23483326", "title": "LegalShield", "text": "LegalShield\n\nLegalShield (previously known as Pre-Paid Legal) is an American corporation that sells legal service products through multi-level marketing in the United States and Canada. \n\nThe company was founded in Ada, Oklahoma on August 8, 1972 as the Sportsman's Motor Club. In 1976 it was incorporated as Pre-Paid Legal Services, Inc., and made its initial public offering in 1984. \n\nPre-Paid Legal Services, Inc. went from being traded on the New York Stock Exchange back to a private company in 2011 when it was acquired by MidOcean Partners for $650 million and subsequently changed its name to LegalShield.\n\nLegalShield develops and markets pre-paid legal service plans through a network of more than 6,900 independent provider attorneys across the U.S. and Canada. The company also markets an identity theft monitoring and restoration services through its partnership with Kroll Inc.. The company's membership plans are sold as employee benefits and directly through its multi-level marketing division.\n\nLegalShield was established as Sportsman's Motor Club in 1972, then known as Pre-Paid Legal Services, Inc. from 1976 until its acquisition by MidOcean Partners in 2011.\n\nHarland Stonecipher (1938–2014) served as the company's founding president and chief executive officer (CEO). The life insurance salesman from Ada, Oklahoma, created Pre-Paid's predecessor, a \"motor service club\", after being involved in a car accident in 1969. Although the other party was cited for fault, they filed a suit against him for the accident. Stonecipher had health, life, and vehicle insurance coverage, but was required to hire a lawyer to defend himself in court and struggled to pay associated legal expenses. After researching the industry of European legal expense plans, he created the Sportsman's Motor Club to reimburse members for legal fees. \n\nPre-Paid Legal began using \"network marketing\" (multi-level marketing or MLM) in 1983. The club changed its name and incorporated as Pre-Paid Legal Services, Inc. in 1976, becoming the first company in the United States to provide pre-paid legal plans for individuals. Initially, members could choose their own lawyer and seek reimbursement from Pre-Paid, but by the 1980s, the company established a way to direct members needing legal assistance to preselected firms.\n\nThe company went public in 1984. Pre-Paid was first listed on the NASDAQ, then moved to the American Stock Exchange in 1986, followed by the New York Stock Exchange in 1999, being listed as \"PPD\". In 1998 Pre-Paid acquired The People's Network, a marketing company based in Dallas.\n\nIn 2001 the Wyoming Attorney General issued a press release announcing \"When we discovered that Pre-Paid was using prohibited income representations to promote their multilevel marketing program, we warned them that the representations were prohibited by Wyoming law\". Pre-Paid paid $4,000 in lieu of civil penalties, reimbursed the state for $1,000 in costs, and refunded $2,000 to participants who claimed to have been misled. In the same year the Securities and Exchange Commission required Pre-Paid to stop counting the commissions paid out to sales associates as assets, instead of expenses, which reduced reported earnings by over half. Pre-Paid did not file its financial statements for 2000 until February 2002. The statements showed decreases in earnings from $43.6 million to $20.5 million and stockholder equity from $147 million to $42 million.\n\nThe \"Denver Business Journal\" reported in 2002 that Pre-Paid earned a $27.1 million profit on $303.7 million in revenue, an increase from its $1.9 million profit on revenues of $129.6 million in 1997, and provided its members access to a network of 46 firms with 1,270 lawyers.\n\nAbout 30 lawsuits by approximately 250 plaintiffs were filed in Alabama in 2004 against Pre-Paid. All of these were dismissed or settled by 2006.\n\nPre-Paid faced two lawsuits in Mississippi in October 2004 and February 2005. A jury ruled in favor of the company in the first suit. In the second suit a jury found Pre-Paid and Stonecipher guilty of deceptive advertising and fraud. In November 2005, Pre-Paid and Stonecipher were required to pay $9.9 million in punitive damages. TheStreet.com reported that Pre-Paid faced additional lawsuits filed by 400 Mississippi plaintiffs. These were ultimately settled. TheStreet.com also noted that the company has had a number of legal successes, including the defeat of a class action lawsuit alleging the company was a pyramid scheme, as well as overturning a fraud verdict. The company and the Oklahoma Chamber of Commerce, of which Stonecipher served as a director, described the lawsuits against the company as \"frivolous\" and \"abusive\".\n\nPre-Paid's independent auditor was unable to approve the company's 2004 financial statements because of \"material weaknesses\" related to the processing of commissions. New rules proposed by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) required Pre-Paid to disclose to potential associates that less than 25 percent of its sales representatives sold multiple insurance plans in 2005, which the company confirmed in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filing.\n\nIn November 2006 Pre-Paid announced plans to spend $27.4 million to repurchase shares owned by executives.\n\nIn 2007 the FTC began investigating Pre-Paid's marketing of its identity theft service and Affirmative Defense Response System (ADRS), which the company developed to increase group sales. Pre-Paid changed its marketing materials in 2009, after regulators found the company’s claims misleading regarding ADRS. According to an SEC filing, the FTC and Pre-Paid \"[reached] a mutually agreeable solution\", and in 2010 the agency ended its three-year investigation without any action. Pre-Paid remained the focus of an informal SEC inquiry; the agency requested documentation about the company's stock repurchasing, consumer complaints related to provider law firms, payment card compliance, Stonecipher's resignation in April 2010, as well as the resignation of director Tom Smith. \n\nIn January 2011 Pre-Paid Legal agreed to merge with entities formed by MidOcean Partners, a private equity firm headquartered in New York which it says is \"focused on the middle market.\" The transaction would result in the company becoming privately held. The deal closed on June 30, 2011. Beginning in July 2011 Rip Mason served as Legal Shield’s Chief Executive Officer.\n\nOn September 10, 2011 the company announced that it would change its name to LegalShield. The new corporate name for the 40-year-old company was said by the company to be part of an overall re-branding initiative following the acquisition of Pre-Paid Legal Services, Inc. by MidOcean Partners.\n\nIn July 2014 Jeff Bell was appointed Legal Shield's Chief Executive Officer replacing Rip Mason. Rip Mason assumed the position of Chairman of the Board.\n\n"}
{"id": "41301264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41301264", "title": "Liberty Oil Co. v. Condon National Bank", "text": "Liberty Oil Co. v. Condon National Bank\n\nLiberty Oil Co. v. Condon National Bank, 260 U.S. 235 (1922), was a decision by the Supreme Court of the United States dealing with civil procedure and the nature of taking an appeal from the United States District Court. \nLiberty Oil Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Virginia contracted to purchase 160 acres, more or less, of oil lands in Butler County, Kansas, for $1,150,000 from the Atlas Petroleum Company of Oklahoma, C. M. Ball, Isadore Litman, P. G. Keith, and J. H. Keith, residents of Kansas. Pursuant to the contract Liberty Oil Company deposited $100,000 in escrow with the Condon National Bank pursuant to the contract. The escrow was pursuant the term of the contract requiring that the vendors furnish an abstract of title to the property showing a good and marketable title in them. Liberty Oil Co. has seven days to review the abstract of title and if it showed good and marketable title Liberty Oil Co. was to pay the remainder of the purchase price and receive the deeds and possession of the land. If the examination showed a good and marketable title, and the vendee should refuse to pay the money then due from it, the $100,000 was to be delivered to the vendors as liquidated damages. In the event that the examination should disclose that the title was not good and marketable, the Liberty Oil was to notify the vendors, and they were to have 30 days in which to perfect the title, and, should they neglect in that time to do so, the $100,000 on deposit was to be returned to the Liberty Oil. In either case the contract was to become null and void. Liberty Oil claims abstract showed that the title of the vendors was not good and marketable, in that in the chain of title the vendors claimed under the deed of an assignee for the benefit of creditors filed in a Colorado court, but never authorized or confirmed by a court of competent jurisdiction under the laws of Kansas, as required by the law of Kansas, that this defect was not remedied by the vendors within the time required. On July 11, 1918, the plaintiff duly notified Condon National Bank of this and demanded payment of the money deposited. The vendors also demanded the payment of the money deposited. The bank did not pay either.\n\nLiberty Oil brought an action at law against Condon National Bank in the United States District Court for the District of Kansas for the money deposited plus interest. The bank answered admitting the facts alleged except the character of the title. The bank asked that be discharged from liability in a defensive interpleader since:\n\nThe court granted the banks request and the vendors voluntarily appeared, answered, and cross petitioned for the deposits and payment of the purchase price. A jury trial was waived. The court tried the matter and found in a general verdict for the vendors, awarding them the deposit with interest.\n\nLiberty Oil appealed to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals claiming the court incorrectly decided the issue of the vendors having good and marketable title. The record of appeal was prepared as either bill of exceptions for writ of error from an action at law or a transcript for an appeal from a suit in equity. The Court of Appeals held that the case was reviewed by writ of error and since the bill of exceptions showed no special findings of fact but only a general finding in a case at law tried without a jury, it lacked power to rule as to the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain the finding so sustained the verdict. Liberty Oil appealed by certiorari to the United States Supreme Court.\n\nCourt held that a defensive interpleader was an equitable defense authorized in an action at law by Judicial Code § 274b added by . An equitable defense should be transferred from the law side of the court to the equity side of the court under Judicial Code § 274a added by and tried before the legal action and that there was no constitutional right to a jury trial in interpleader. These statues were a step on the way to merger of law and equity but not as fully as in the states with a code of procedures by creating one form of action.\n\nJudicial Code § 269, as amended , appellate courts are to give judgment after an examination of the record without regard to technical errors, defects, or exceptions which do not affect the substantial rights of the parties, and Judicial Code § 274b, provides whether the review is sought by writ of error or appeal, the appellate court is given to render such judgment upon the record as law and justice shall require. It follows that the court should have considered the issue of law and fact upon which the decree of the district court depended whether there was a good and marketable title. The Supreme Court could have determined the issue of whether there was good and marketable title but did not because the case was not of sufficient public interest to justify that, the case was remanded to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nThe case was determined on remand by the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals at 291 F. 293 in 1923.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "249527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249527", "title": "List of decorative stones", "text": "List of decorative stones\n\nThis is a geographical list of natural stone used for decorative purposes in construction and monumental sculpture produced in various countries.\n\nThe dimension-stone industry classifies stone based on appearance and hardness as either \"granite\", \"marble\" or \"slate\".\n\nThe granite of the dimension-stone industry along with truly granitic rock also includes gneiss, gabbro, anorthosite and even some sedimentary rocks.\n\nNatural stone is used as architectural stone (construction, flooring, cladding, counter tops, curbing, etc.) and as raw block and monument stone for the funerary trade. Natural stone is also used in custom stone engraving. The engraved stone can be either decorative or functional. Natural memorial stones are used as natural burial markers.\n\nMarble\n\nPakistan has more than 300 kinds of marble and natural stone types and variations:\n\nIran have more than 250 kind of Marble stone& Travertine & Onyx & Granite & limestone\nIran is one of the best countries in variety of stones in the world.\nmarble: Dehbid in several sorts .persian silk- shahyadi- namin- khoy- bastam-kashmar-miami- are only some of the Iranian Marbles\ntravertin: hajjiabad -Atashkooh- Darrehbokhari- ... are only 3kinde of IRAN Travertine\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57427796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57427796", "title": "List of first women lawyers and judges in North America", "text": "List of first women lawyers and judges in North America\n\nThis is a list of the first women lawyer(s) and judge(s) in North America (a separate list is devoted to the United States). It includes the year in which the women were admitted to practice law (in parentheses). Also included are the first women in their country to achieve a certain distinction such as obtaining a law degree or becoming a political figure.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee List of first women lawyers and judges in the United States for more details.\n\n\nKEY\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28602654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28602654", "title": "List of largest Chinese law firms", "text": "List of largest Chinese law firms\n\nThe top 10 largest law firms by number of lawyers in mainland China as ranked by the trade publication Asian Legal Business in November 2017 in its \"ALB Asia Top 50 Largest Law firms\" feature are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "27698141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27698141", "title": "Mary Jane Hayden", "text": "Mary Jane Hayden\n\nMary J. Hayden was born in 1830 in Athens, Maine as Mary Jane Bean, and spent her early childhood with her grandparents in the town of Cornville, Maine. In 1845, Hayden emigrated with her parents to the wilds of Wisconsin, where in 1847, she met and married Gay Hayden. In 1850, they emigrated to the Oregon Territory and settled in what is now Vancouver, Washington. In 1851 upon hearing of the Donation Land Claim Act, a year after the act was passed by Congress, they settled on an island situated on the Columbia River between modern-day Portland, Oregon and Vancouver, Washington that would become known as Hayden Island. Gay Hayden proceeded to build a grand home and live on the island for five years with his wife and their twin children. Together and individually, they would both become well-known pioneers of the Pacific Northwest. Hayden was a member of the Oregon Pioneer Association. She died on June 24, 1918 in Seattle, Washington.\n\nOn March 10, 1886, Hayden separated from her husband and divided their property in court, from that point on each handling their own real estate and financial affairs. Gay Hayden later sold a portion of his land to Terrence Furey in September 1901, and Furey (prior to the purchase of the lot) was informed that Hayden was the wife of the grantor but that she had no interest in the lot. Furey then resold the land on March 8, 1906 to Reinhold Zerbst, but Hayden did not join in this conveyance. Furey sold and conveyed the lot to Zerbst, who at said time did not know that Gay Hayden was a married man. Gay Hayden had died almost four years previously intestate in Clarke County in May 1902 and his estate was probated in that county.\n\nThe Portland and Seattle Railway had Zerbst's land condemned in 1903 and he was subsequently reimbursed $1200 for the land. Hayden had made no claim to this lot until the sale to Zerbst was begun upon which she appealed to the Supreme Court of Washington in 1908 for her half of the proceeds from said land sale and resulted in the case of Hayden v. Zerbst. In the end, the court found in favor of Zerbst as Hayden had not taken any action for 14 years after the sale of the land by her late husband.\n"}
{"id": "20195071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20195071", "title": "Moldovan nationality law", "text": "Moldovan nationality law\n\nMoldovan nationality law dates back to June 2, 2000 and has been amended several times, with the latest modifications being made in 2014. It is based on the Constitution of Moldova (articles 17, 18 and 19). It is mainly based on Jus sanguinis.\n\nDual nationality is allowed, under certain conditions.\n\nUnder the law, there are provisions for citizenship to be acquired by:\n\nYou acquire citizenship by birth, if you fulfil any of the following requirements.\n\nCitizenship may be granted to anyone who has reached the age of 18, and who meets one of the following criteria:\nIn addition they must fulfil the following criteria:\n\nMoldova allows its citizens to hold foreign citizenship in addition to their Moldovan citizenship. Some countries, however, do not permit multiple citizenship e.g. adults who acquired Moldovan and Japanese citizenship by birth must declare, to the latter's Ministry of Justice, before turning 22, which citizenship they want to keep.\n\nOn 28 September 2017, a new law has passed by the government allowing individuals to buy their citizenship for a fixed sum. Moldovan pro-Russian president Igor Dodon tried to bring in investments from Russia stating that \"The Moldovan passport could allow them to travel in Europe freely.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "506540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506540", "title": "National Electoral Council (Venezuela)", "text": "National Electoral Council (Venezuela)\n\nThe National Electoral Council () (CNE) is one of the five branches of government of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela that is designed to be independent. It is the institution that has the responsibility of overseeing and guaranteeing the transparency of all elections and referendums in Venezuela at the local, regional, and national levels. The creation of the CNE was ratified by citizens in Venezuela's 1999 constitutional referendum.\n\nThe National Electoral Council (CNE) is composed of five persons; three of them nominated by civil society, one by the faculties of law and political science at national universities, and one by the Citizen Power. The three members nominated by civil society shall have six alternates in ordinal sequence, and each appointed by the universities and the Citizen Power has two alternates, respectively. Members of the National Electoral Council last seven years in office and be elected separately: the three nominated by civil society at the beginning of each period of the National Assembly, and the other two in the middle of it. Members of the National Electoral Council shall be appointed by the National Assembly with the vote of two thirds of its members. Members of the National Electoral Council will designate from among its members its President, in accordance with the law. (Article 296 Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela).\n\nAt present, the CNE officials are: Tibisay Lucena (CNE President, President of the National Electoral Commission), Sandra Oblitas Ruzza (Vice President, President of the Civil and Electoral Registry Commission), Vicente José Gregorio Díaz Silva (President of the Political Participation and Finance Commission), Socorro Elizabeth Hernández Hernández (Member of the National Electoral Commission) and Tania D' Amelio Cardiet (Member of the Civil and Electoral Registry Commission). The CNE also has a general secretary, Xavier Antonio Moreno Reyes, and a juridical consultant, Roberto Ignacio Mirabal Acosta.\n\nThe CNE was preceded by the Supreme Electoral Council, which was established under an electoral law on September 11, 1936. This entity was replaced by the CNE in 1997 with the passage of a new Organic Law of Suffrage and Participation.\n\nThe electoral system of Venezuela is a controversial. It has been alleged that the Supreme Tribunal of Justice, with the majority supporting Chávez, elected officials to the supposedly non-partisan National Electoral Council of Venezuela (CNE) despite the 1999 Constitution stating for the National Assembly of Venezuela to perform the task. That resulted with the CNE board having a majority consisting of Chavistas or those that supported Chávez. Since then, the Venezuelan government controlled by the PSUV ruling party has manipulated elections, holding control of the CNE, the media and through government spending. Following the election of Nicolás Maduro – Chávez's handpicked successor – into the presidency, the CNE has been described as being pro-Maduro. \n\nAccording to the United States Department of State, there is \"widespread pre- and post-election fraud, including electoral irregularities, government interference, and manipulation of voters\" and \"opposition political parties [have] operated in a restrictive atmosphere characterized by intimidation, the threat of prosecution or administrative sanction on questionable charges, and restricted media access\". International observers have had difficulties monitoring the elections, though the Bolivarian government accepts the praise of their elections from UNASUR allies.\n\n"}
{"id": "5470023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5470023", "title": "National Service Act of 2006", "text": "National Service Act of 2006\n\nUniversal National Service Act of 2006, sponsored by Rep. Charles Rangel, was introduced into the U.S. House of Representatives on February 14, 2006. On February 23, 2006, it was referred to the House Subcommittee on Military Personnel. The bill was never enacted.\n\nRep. Rangel argued that the bill was necessary since in the case of a mandatory draft members of the U.S. Congress would be much less likely to authorize an unnecessary war if they knew that their own children and family members might be sent to fight it. He was quoted as saying: \"There’s no question in my mind that this president and this administration would never have invaded Iraq, especially on the flimsy evidence that was presented to the Congress if indeed we had a draft and members of Congress and the administration thought that their kids from their communities would be placed in harm’s way\". Rangel also argued that bringing back the draft would remedy the social disparity of the burden of military service falling disproportionately on the poor and the minorities. After the Democratic victories in the November 2007 congressional elections, Rangel repeated his call for re-introduction of the draft and for moving forward on the bill, and a more active public discussion of the proposal followed. Most of the reaction in the media, Congress and by the public was negative, although occasional support for the idea was expressed as well. The military leadership expressed opposition to the idea. Many conservative critics charged that the bill on re-introducing the draft was simply a political maneuver by Rangel aimed to underscore the unpopularity of the Iraq War. The debate was largely over soon after the incoming Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi indicated that she was not interested in advancing the bill to reintroduce the draft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453742", "title": "New Laws", "text": "New Laws\n\nThe New Laws (Spanish: Leyes Nuevas), also known as the New Laws of the Indies for the Good Treatment and Preservation of the Indians (Spanish:Leyes y ordenanzas nuevamente hechas por su Majestad para la gobernación de las Indias y buen tratamiento y conservación de los Indios), were issued on November 20, 1542, by King Charles V of the Holy Roman Empire (Charles I of Spain) and regard the Spanish colonization of the Americas. Following complaints and calls for reform from individuals such as the Dominican friar Bartolomé de Las Casas, these laws were intended to prevent the exploitation and mistreatment of the indigenous peoples of the Americas by the \"encomenderos\", by strictly limiting their power and dominion over groups of natives. The text of the New Laws has been translated to English.\n\nBlasco Núñez Vela, the first Viceroy of Peru, enforced the New Laws. He was opposed by a revolt of some \"encomenderos\" and was killed in 1546 by the landowning faction led by Gonzalo Pizarro. He wanted to maintain a political structure based on the Incan model the Spanish found in place. Although the New Laws were only partly successful, due to the opposition of some colonists, they did result in the liberation of thousands of indigenous workers, who had been held in a state of semi-slavery.\n\nThe New Laws were the results of a reform movement in reaction to what were considered to be the less effective, decades-old \"Leyes de Burgos\" (Laws of Burgos), issued by King Ferdinand II of Aragon on December 27, 1512. These laws were the first intended to regulate relations between the Spaniards and the recently conquered indigenous peoples of the New World. These are regarded as the first humanitarian laws in the New World. They were not fully implemented because of opposition by some powerful colonists. While some encomenderos opposed the restrictions imposed by the laws as against their interests, others were opposed because they believed the laws institutionalized the system of forced Indian labor. During the reign of King Charles I, the reformers gained strength. A number of Spanish missionaries argued for stricter rules, including Bartolomé de las Casas and Francisco de Vitoria. Their goal was to protect the Indians against forced labor and expropriation, and to preserve their cultures. Some discussions challenged the very legitimacy of the conquest and colonization. \nEventually, the reformists influenced the King and his court to pass reforms that came to be known as the New Laws.\n\nSome of these laws were redundant. Some established extra protections and rights for Native Americans that native Spaniards did not have themselves. Given the distance from the colonies and the time needed to travel between there and Spain, the Crown was unable to fully monitor compliance with the more ambiguous laws. For instance, slavery was made legal as punishment for certain crimes. \n\nThe main examples are the cases of slavery and encomiendas. \nThe new laws included the prohibition of enslavement of the Indians and provided for gradual abolition of the encomienda system in America by forbidding it to be inherited by descendants. The New Laws stated that the natives would be considered free persons, and the \"encomenderos\" could no longer demand their labour. \n\nThe prohibition against enslaving Indians \"in any case, not even crime or war\" was a right that did not apply to native Castilians themselves. The enslavement of Native Americans had been declared illegal in Castile in 1501, when Isabella I declared native Americans to be both people and subjects of the Castilian crown, and so subject to the same rights and obligations as any other subject of the queen. Under those regulations, slavery was permitted almost exclusively as a penalty for a serious crime or some exceptional circumstances. Granting extra protection for Native Americans was an attempt by the crown to address its inability to monitor, from Spain, the legitimacy of the claims regarding reasons to enslave a person in the New World, and it acknowledged that false claims could be fabricated to enslave and exploit the native peoples. \n\nThe introduction and corruption of the encomienda system is now considered to have been an alternative for outright slavery and a Castilian institution that did not work properly in America. The encomienda was a system that interchanged a person's work for military protection by a higher authority. It had been part of the Castilian legal system since the Reconquista. Given the limited size of the Crown's army, this system allowed nobles or warlords to trade protection for the labor of persons under their purview. It was a way to aid in ensuring the safety of the population of the border areas during the repopulation of the no-mans-land between Castile and the southern Muslim areas. It either required either the consent of both parts or the direct intervention of the king, who was responsible for setting reasonable conditions for the parties and to intervene (militarily if required) in case of abuses.\n\nin America, however, colonists used encomiendas to create conditions similar to slavery in areas that did not require such protection. Authorities other than the king claimed the right to assign encomiendas and assigned the most unpleasant or dangerous jobs to the Natives. \n\nThe New Laws established more specific regulations or stipulated the conditions under the Crown's authority: \n\nThe King promulgated the \"New Laws\" in 1542. In addition to regulating encomienda and treatment of Indians, they reorganized the overseas colonial administration. Several General Captainships were established, such as the Kingdom of Guatemala, to create another level of Crown authority in the colony. \n\nWhen the New Laws were passed, every European man holding an encomienda in Peru learned that this grant of labor could be confiscated if he was guilty of having taken part in the civil disturbances of Francisco Pizarro and Almagro. As a result, privileged Spanish colonists were disturbed about implementing the New Laws. In Peru Gonzalo Pizarro led a revolt of protesting encomenderos; they took to arms to \"maintain their rights by force\" for control of Indian lands and labor.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Peru invited Pizarro to take control of the government after his forces reached Lima from Bolivia. Pizarro took over Lima and Quito (now in Ecuador). Viceroy Blasco Núñez Vela, who had attempted to impose the decrees, was overthrown. Pizarro and his army killed Núñez Vela in 1546. Pizarro's power stretched from Peru north to Panama. Charles I and the court became alarmed, and were convinced that the immediate abolition of the \"encomienda\" system would bring economic ruin to the colonies. To deal with the revolt, Charles I sent Pedro de la Gasca to the colony; a bishop and diplomat, he did not command an army but was given full powers to rule and negotiate a settlement with Pizarro and his followers. However, Pizarro declared Peru as independent from the King. La Gasca provisionally suspended the New Laws. Pizarro was later captured and executed, accused of being a \"traitor to the King.\"\n\nAlthough in New Spain (now Mexico), the initial reaction of encomenderos was noncompliance, they did not organize a rebellion as in Peru. New Spain's first viceroy, Don Antonio de Mendoza, prudently refrained from enforcing the parts of the New Laws most objectionable to the \"encomenderos\", and avoided rebellion. Over time, the encomenderos complied with most aspects of the laws. Most already maintained a horse and arms in case of Indian rebellion, and had established a residence in a Spanish settlement. They hired priests to minister to the Indians whose labor was granted to them. While they were not allowed to retain their encomiendas in perpetuity, they were permitted to bequeath the properties and labor once. They allowed Indians to fulfill obligations by payment of tribute, often in produce. The dramatic declines in Indian population due to epidemic disease, however, resulted in economic losses for the encomenderos. \n\nIn 1545, the Crown revoked the rule stating that the \"encomienda\" properties could not be inherited. By strengthening the power of the encomenderos, the encomienda system was made secure. While the New Laws were partly successful, they did result in the liberation of thousands of indigenous workers from enforced servitude.\n\nMost of the ordinances of the New Laws were later incorporated into the general corpus of the Laws of the Indies. In some cases they were superseded by newer laws. A weaker version of the New Laws was issued in 1552.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49276102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49276102", "title": "New York City Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings", "text": "New York City Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings\n\nThe New York City Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings (OATH) is an administrative court of the New York City government. It is a non-mayoral executive agency and is not part of the state Unified Court System.\n\nAdministrative trials neither preclude, nor are precluded by, criminal charges by the state and/or civil lawsuits by complainants against the respondent individuals and businesses.\n\nOATH adjudicates for all city agencies unless otherwise provided for by executive order, rule, law or pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. OATH is composed of the:\n\n\nThe Environmental Control Board (ECB) is composed of thirteen members: the chairperson is the OATH Chief Administrative Law Judge (ALJ), six are commissioners of city agencies, six are citizens who are experts in the fields of water pollution control, business, real estate and noise but includes two general citizen representatives. Although the ECB is empowered to impose penalties under the New York City Charter and has promulgated penalty schedules, the ECB is in the process of repealing all penalty schedules in its rules so that they can be relocated to the rules of the enforcement agencies with primary rulemaking and policymaking jurisdiction with the expertise to adopt appropriate penalties to address violations, and help clarify to the public that OATH ECB is a neutral third party that hears and tries cases brought by other City agencies and is not an enforcement agency.\n\nUnlike state criminal courts (such as the New York City Criminal Court), OATH does not guarantee a right to counsel, a fine is the most serious outcome, and a failure to appear results in a default judgment not an arrest warrant. When an individual or business is fined and does not attend a hearing of the Environmental Control Board (ECB) or pay within the required time period, the ECB adds a penalty and oversees interest.\n\nOATH adjudicates for all city agencies unless otherwise provided for by executive order, rule, law or pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. However, except as to issues involving employee discipline, OATH hearings are the exception rather than the rule. In 2003, New York City had roughly 61 city agencies employing an estimated 500 lawyers as administrative law judges and/or hearing officers/examiners. Non-OATH tribunals that also operate in New York City include:\n\n\nThe New York City Criminal Court and New York City Civil Court are part of the New York State Unified Court System.\n\nOATH was created by Mayor Ed Koch with Executive Order 32 on July 25, 1979, and by an amendment to the New York City Charter at the general election on November 8, 1988. The Board of Standards and Appeals was consolidated with OATH by an amendment to the charter effective July 1, 1991. The Environmental Control Board was moved from the authority of the Department of Environmental Protection to OATH effective November 23, 2008. Fidel Del Valle was appointed as commissioner and chief judge of OATH by mayor de Blasio in 2014. Executive Order 18 of June 23, 2016 transferred all adjudications of the DCA Tribunal to OATH effective August 22, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006544", "title": "Nicholas Romanov, Prince of Russia", "text": "Nicholas Romanov, Prince of Russia\n\nNicholas Romanovich Romanov, Prince of Russia (; 26 September 1922 – 15 September 2014) was a claimant to the headship of the House of Romanov and president of the Romanov Family Association. Although undoubtedly a descendant of Tsar Nicholas I of Russia, his claimed titles and official membership in the former Imperial House were disputed by those who maintained that his parents' marriage violated the laws of Imperial Russia.\n\nPrince Nicholas was born in Cap d'Antibes near Antibes, France, the eldest son of Prince Roman Petrovich and his wife Princess Praskovia Dmitrievna (née Countess Sheremeteva). Prince Nicholas had a younger brother, Prince Dimitri Romanovich. Their father Prince Roman Petrovich was the only son of Grand Duke Peter Nicolaievich and Grand Duchess Militsa Nikolaievna (née Princess of Montenegro). His grandfather was the younger son of Grand Duke Nicholas Nikolaevich and Grand Duchess Alexandra Petrovna (née Duchess of Oldenburg). His great grandfather Nicholas Nikolaevich was a younger son of Emperor Nicholas I of Russia and Empress Alexandra Fyodorovna (née Princess Charlotte of Prussia) and founded the Nikolaevichi branch of the Russian Imperial Family.\n\nPrince Nicholas was brought up in Cap d'Antibes with his family still using the Julian calendar and he spoke both fluent Russian and French from his childhood on. He was brought up in a Russian environment with his local church having a Russian priest and his family employing Russian staff and a Russian nanny.\n\nPrince Nicholas received a private education in France with his studies following the old Russian school curriculum. In 1936 his family moved to Italy due to the standard of schooling supposedly being better there. He aspired to be a naval officer and had convinced his parents by the age of 12 that this was his dream. However, as he was a Romanov and there was a Soviet Navy and not an Imperial Russian Navy, he decided to work towards a career in the Italian Navy. Using his family's close relationship to the Italian Royal Family (both his grandmother Militsa and Queen Helena of Italy, wife of King Victor Emmanuel III, were daughters of King Nicholas I of Montenegro) he began to study in Italy under the tutelage of a retired Italian Naval officer with the aim of attending the Naval Academy of Livorno. However, Nicholas's hopes of a Naval career evaporated when he showed signs of near-sightedness.\n\nHe completed his education in Italy graduating from a Liceo classico in 1942.\n\nDuring World War II, Prince Nicholas and his family lived at the residence of Victor Emmanuel III of Italy. When the King left Rome, Nicholas and his family went into hiding for nine months. During the occupation of Rome by Germany, Nicholas's grandmother, who was at great risk of deportation as a sister of the Queen, had to take shelter in the Holy See. In 1942, the ruling Fascists in Italy approached Prince Nicholas to offer him the throne of Montenegro. He declined.\n\nPrince Nicholas wanted to study engineering at the University of Rome but the war prevented this, so following its conclusion, he found employment by working as a civilian for the Allies in the Psychological Warfare Division and the United States Information Service. On the advice of King Umberto II Prince Nicholas and his family left Italy for Egypt in 1946. While living in Egypt he was involved in the purchasing and sale of Turkish tobacco as well as finding work in an Insurance company.\n\nReturning to Europe in 1950 Prince Nicholas worked in Rome for the Austin Motor Company until 1954. Following the death of his brother-in-law he took over the management of his wife's property and business in Tuscany. The business was a large farm which he managed for 25 years from 1955 to 1980 where he bred Chianina cattle and produced wine. He sold the farm in 1982 and moved to Rougemont, Switzerland. A refugee from birth, Prince Nicholas was a stateless person and used to travel abroad on a letter issued by the King of Greece. He finally became a citizen of Italy in 1988. Prince Nicholas visited Russia for the first time in June 1992 when he acted as a second tour guide for a group of businessmen. He often appeared in the media to talk about the Romanovs, giving over 100 television interviews, and appearing in television documentaries such as the 2003 Danish documentary \"En Kongelig familie\" and the 2007 France 3 produced documentary called \"Un nom en héritage, les Romanov\". In 1999, a documentary on his life was produced by the Russian television channel NTV.\n\nHis father Roman Petrovich came up with the idea of a family association of the Romanovs in the mid-1970s. After looking through the papers of his father, who died in 1978, Nicholas found that everything was in place for its creation. He then wrote to all the members of the Romanov family who had been in communication with his father and it was agreed that a family association should be created. A year later, in 1979, the Romanov Family Association was officially formed with Prince Dmitri Alexandrovich as president and Nicholas as vice-president. When Vasili Alexandrovich became president in 1980, Nicholas remained vice-president.\n\nIn 1989, after the death of Vasili Alexandrovich, Prince Nicholas was elected the new president of the Romanov Family Association. The Association currently has as members the majority of the male-line descendants of Emperor Nicholas I of Russia, although Grand Duchess Maria Vladimirovna has never joined, nor did her late father Grand Duke Vladimir Kirillovich.\n\nThe official position of the Romanov Family Association is that the rights of the family to the Russian Throne were suspended when Emperor Nicholas II abdicated for himself and for his son Tsarevich Alexei in favour of his brother Grand Duke Michael Alexandrovich who then deferred ascending the Throne until a Constituent Assembly ratified his rule. Emperor Michael II, as he was legally pronounced by Nicholas II, did not abdicate but empowered the Provisional Government to rule. Michael's \"reign\" was ended with his execution in 1918.\n\nPrince Nicholas considered that following the death of Grand Duke Vladimir Cyrillovich in 1992 that he was head of the House of Romanov and his rightful successor. On the basis that Vladimir Cyrillovich was the last male dynast and all other Romanovs are excluded due to their parents' \"unequal\" marriages, Vladimir's daughter Grand Duchess Maria Vladimirovna also put forward a claim to the headship of the imperial house on her father's death. With the exception of Grand Duchess Maria, Prince Nicholas was recognized by the rest of the family as head of the Imperial House. However, the final edition of the \"Almanach de Gotha\" published by Justus Perthes, in 1944, stated that the marriage of Nicholas's parents was \"not in conformity with the laws of the house\" although some previous editions had listed him as a dynastic member of the Imperial House. Prince Nicholas said regarding \"unequal\" marriages in the Imperial Family:\n\nOur parents married commoners. So what? We have married commoners. Again, so what? There was nobody to ask us to renounce our rights, so we married without renouncing them, and we and our children still have rights to the throne of Russia.\n\nPrince Nicholas led the Romanov family at the funeral in St. Petersburg of the last Russian Emperor Nicholas II and his family in July 1998. As head of the family he was also present at the reburial of the remains of the Dowager Empress Maria Feodorovna in Russia in September 2006. Prince Nicholas and his brother Prince Dmitri had been responsible for lobbying the Danish royal family and the Russian President Vladimir Putin to allow the transfer of the Dowager Empress’s remains to Russia so they could be buried alongside her husband Emperor Alexander III.\n\nUntil his marriage to a Roman Catholic, Prince Nicholas was in the line of succession to the British throne through his descent from Nicholas the First's wife Charlotte of Prussia, a descendant of George I of Great Britain.\n\nIn 1950, Prince Nicholas and the Countess Sveva della Gherardesca (born 1930), a member of the Italian della Gherardesca noble family from Tuscany and a direct descendant of Count Ugolino della Gherardesca, met at a party in Rome. They were married in Florence in a civil ceremony on 31 December 1951 followed by a religious ceremony on 21 January 1952 in the Russian Cathedral at Cannes.\n\nPrince Nicholas and his wife had three daughters:\n\nPrince Nicholas and his wife lived in Rougemont, Switzerland, for seven months every year, usually in the winter. During the rest of the year they stayed in Italy with their daughters. The prince still used the Julian calendar and was fluent in French, Russian, Italian and English. He was also able to read Spanish.\n\nPrince Nicholas's death in Tuscany aged 91 was reported on 15 September 2014. He was survived by his wife, their three children, five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.\n\n\nSince the Russian Revolution, members of the Romanov family have tended to drop the territorial designation “of Russia” and use a princely title with the surname Romanov. However this title, and even his right to the surname Romanov are disputed.\n\nHe is also known as \"Prince Nicholas Romanov\", \"Prince Nicholas of Russia\", \"Prince Nicholas Romanoff\", and \"Prince Nikolai Romanov\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2498236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2498236", "title": "People's Democracy (Ireland)", "text": "People's Democracy (Ireland)\n\nPeople's Democracy (PD) was a political organisation that, while supporting the campaign for civil rights for Northern Ireland's Catholic minority, stated that such rights could only be achieved through the establishment of a socialist republic for all of Ireland. It demanded more radical reforms of the government of Northern Ireland than the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association it came from.\n\nIt was founded on 9 October 1968 at a meeting held in the Queen's University Belfast debating hall. A catalyst for its foundation had been the attack on a Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association (NICRA) march in Derry on 5 October by the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC).\n\nThe group consisted mainly of students who were involved with the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association or left wing groups such as the Labour Clubs and Young Socialist Alliance.\n\nAt the meeting the group decided on five aims:\n\nIt was initially led by a committee of ten members which consisted of Queen's University students Malcolm Miles, Fergus Woods, Anne McBurnley, Ian Godall, Bernadette Devlin, Joe Martin, Eddie McCamely, Michael O'Kane and Patricia Drinan, as well as Kevin Boyle, a law lecturer at QUB. Other prominent members included Cyril Toman, Eamon McCann and Michael Farrell.\n\nThe name of the group was selected by accident, according to Bernadette Devlin.\nAfter marches in Belfast, in imitation of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Selma to Montgomery marches, about 40 People's Democracy members held a four-day march between Belfast and Derry starting on 1 January 1969. The march was repeatedly attacked by loyalists along its route, including an incident at Burntollet bridge on 4 January where the marchers were attacked by about 200 unionists, including off-duty special constables, armed with iron bars, bottles and stones, while the RUC stood by and watched.\n\nPD became increasingly radicalised as a result of these events. They also attacked the censorship laws in the Republic — earning a rebuke from Ruairi Quinn and Basil Miller, then leaders of Students for Democratic Action, a revolutionary socialist student organisation, for letting British imperialism off the hook. In later years, members of the PD either quit politics altogether or became independent left-wing activists (such as Devlin and Farrell).\n\nIn 1971, PD became a founder of the Socialist Labour Alliance.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, the experience of the Ulster Workers' Council strike led to PD predicting a loyalist takeover in Northern Ireland, but it later came round to the view that this perspective was incorrect, giving loyalism a degree of autonomy from imperialism which it did not possess. The minority which clung to the old perspective left to form the Left Revolutionary Group, becoming the Red Republican Party in 1976, which was moribund by 1978.\n\nDuring the 1970s, PD evolved towards Trotskyist positions and, by merging with the Dublin-based Movement for a Socialist Republic, was recognised by the reunified Fourth International as its Irish section.\n\nPD was especially active around the issues of internment and prisoners' rights. Following the formation of the National H-Block/Armagh Committee in 1979 to build support for the Republican prisoners then on the \"blanket protest\" in support of political status and the subsequent death of Bobby Sands and nine of his comrades during the H-Block hunger strikes, a number of members of the organisation, led by Vincent Doherty - then a member of the Political Committee and a former party general election candidate - argued that PD should join Sinn Féin, which had moved openly to the left in the late 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nIn 1981, two members of People's Democracy were elected to Belfast City Council. John McAnulty and Fergus O'Hare were elected in a joint campaign with the IRSP. Fergus O'Hare won the council seat of Gerry Fitt, a sitting Westminster MP. O'Hare had been a founding member of the National H-Block/Armagh Committee and had previously been chairperson of the Political Hostages Release Committee which spearheaded the campaign against internment in the early 1970s. He subsequently went on to found the first Irish-language secondary school in Northern Ireland Meánscoil Feirste.\n\nWhen Sinn Féin ended its boycott of elections and gained mass support among the republican community, PD entered a political crisis. From 1982 on, a number of activists left them and joined Sinn Féin. At a PD national conference in 1986, a group including Anne Speed proposed the dissolution of the group and that the members all join SF as individuals. This position was defeated by 19 votes to five. A few weeks later the minority of five resigned from PD followed by their supporters and joined Sinn Féin. The remaining rump who continued to oppose this view maintained PD as a small propaganda group.\n\nIn the early 1990s the remaining members of PD initiated the Irish Committee for a Marxist Programme as an attempt to regroup socialists and left wing republicans. This project ended in 1996, when PD dissolved and reconstituted itself as Socialist Democracy, adopting the program put forward by the ICMP.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52906369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52906369", "title": "Reclaimed asphalt pavement (RAP)", "text": "Reclaimed asphalt pavement (RAP)\n\nReclaimed asphalt pavement (RAP) is defined as removed pavement materials containing asphalt and aggregates. These materials are generated when asphalt pavements are removed for reconstruction, resurfacing, or to obtain access to buried utilities. When properly crushed and screened, RAP consists of high-quality, well-graded aggregates coated by asphalt cement. Asphalt pavement has been America's most recycled material for a long time. Using RAP material has well-recognized financial and environmental benefits. Although most of the produced RAP is recycled, a large portion of it is wasted or down-graded when used in landfills, embankment or base layers.\n"}
{"id": "6782761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6782761", "title": "Regulamentul Organic", "text": "Regulamentul Organic\n\nRegulamentul Organic (, \"Organic Regulation\"; ; ) was a quasi-constitutional organic law enforced in 1834–1835 by the Imperial Russian authorities in Moldavia and Wallachia (the two Danubian Principalities that were to become the basis of the modern Romanian state). The document partially confirmed the traditional government (including rule by the \"hospodars\") and set up a common Russian protectorate which lasted until 1854. The \"Regulament\" itself remained in force until 1858. Conservative in its scope, it also engendered a period of unprecedented reforms which provided a setting for the Westernization of the local society. The \"Regulament\" offered the two Principalities their first common system of government.\n\nThe two principalities, owing tribute and progressively ceding political control to the Ottoman Empire since the Middle Ages, had been subject to frequent Russian interventions as early as the Russo-Turkish War (1710–1711), when a Russian army penetrated Moldavia and Emperor Peter the Great probably established links with the Wallachians. Eventually, the Ottomans enforced a tighter control on the region, effected under Phanariote \"hospodars\" (who were appointed directly by the Porte). Ottoman rule over the region remained contested by competition from Russia, which, as an Eastern Orthodox empire with claim to a Byzantine heritage, exercised notable influence over locals. At the same time, the Porte made several concessions to the rulers and boyars of Moldavia and Wallachia, as a means to ensure the preservation of its rule.\n\nThe Treaty of Küçük Kaynarca, signed in 1774 between the Ottomans and Russians, gave Russia the right to intervene on behalf of Eastern Orthodox Ottoman subjects in general, a right which it used to sanction Ottoman interventions in the Principalities in particular. Thus, Russia intervened to preserve reigns of \"hospodars\" who had lost Ottoman approval in the context of the Napoleonic Wars (the \"casus belli\" for the 1806–12 conflict), and remained present in the Danubian states, vying for influence with the Austrian Empire, well into the 19th century and annexing Moldavia's Bessarabia in 1812.\n\nDespite the influx of Greeks, arriving in the Principalities as a new bureaucracy favored by the \"hospodars\", the traditional Estates of the realm (the \"Divan\") remained under the tight control of a number of high boyar families, who, while intermarrying with members of newly arrived communities, opposed reformist attempts – and successfully preserved their privileges by appealing against their competitors to both Istanbul and Saint Petersburg.\nIn the last decades of the 18th century, the growing strategic importance of the region brought about the establishment of consulates representing European powers directly interested in observing local developments (Russia, the Austrian Empire, and France; later, British and Prussian ones were opened as well). An additional way for consuls to exercise particular policies was the awarding of a privileged status and protection to various individuals, who were known as \"sudiți\" (\"subjects\", in the language of the time) of one or the other of the foreign powers.\n\nA seminal event occurred in 1821, when the rise of Greek nationalism in various parts of the Balkans in connection with the Greek War of Independence led to occupation of the two states by the Filiki Eteria, a Greek secret society who sought, and initially obtained, Russian approval. A mere takeover of the government in Moldavia, the Eterist expedition met a more complex situation in Wallachia, where a regency of high boyars attempted to have the anti-Ottoman Greek nationalists confirm both their rule and the rejection of Phanariote institutions. A compromise was achieved through their common support for Tudor Vladimirescu, an Oltenian \"pandur\" leader who had already instigated an anti-Phanariote rebellion (as one of the Russian \"sudiți\", it was hoped that Vladimirescu could assure Russia that the revolt was not aimed against its influence). However, the eventual withdrawal of Russian support made Vladimirescu seek a new agreement with the Ottomans, leaving him to be executed by an alliance of Eterists and weary locals (alarmed by his new anti-boyar program); after the Ottomans invaded the region and crushed the Eteria, the boyars, still perceived as a third party, obtained from the Porte an end to the Phanariote system\n\nThe first reigns through locals – Ioniță Sandu Sturdza as Prince of Moldavia and Grigore IV Ghica as Prince of Wallachia – were, in essence, short-lived: although the patron-client relation between Phanariote \"hospodars\" and a foreign ruler was never revived, Sturdza and Ghica were deposed by the Russian military intervention during the Russo-Turkish War, 1828–1829. Sturdza's time on the throne was marked by an important internal development: the last in a series of constitutional proposals, advanced by boyars as a means to curb princely authority, ended in a clear conflict between the rapidly decaying class of low-ranking boyars (already forming the upper level of the middle class rather than a segment of the traditional nobility) and the high-ranking families who had obtained the decisive say in politics. The proponent, Ionică Tăutu, was defeated in the \"Divan\" after the Russian consul sided with the conservatives (expressing the official view that the aristocratic-republican and liberal aims of the document could have threatened international conventions in place).\n\nOn October 7, 1826, the Ottoman Empire — anxious to prevent Russia's intervention in the Greek Independence War — negotiatied with it a new status for the region in Akkerman, one which conceded to several requests of the inhabitants: the resulting \"Akkerman Convention\" was the first official document to nullify the principle of Phanariote reigns, instituting seven-year terms for new princes elected by the respective \"Divans\", and awarding the two countries the right to engage in unrestricted international trade (as opposed to the tradition of limitations and Ottoman protectionism, it only allowed Istanbul to impose its priorities in the grain trade). The convention also made the first mention of new \"Statutes\", enforced by both powers as governing documents, which were not drafted until after the war – although both Sturdza and Ghica had appointed commissions charged with adopting such projects.\n\nThe Russian military presence on the Principalities' soil was inaugurated in the first days of the war: by late April 1828, the Russian army of Peter Wittgenstein had reached the Danube (in May, it entered present-day Bulgaria). The campaign, prolonged for the following year and coinciding with devastating bubonic plague and cholera epidemics (which together killed around 1.6% of the population in both countries), soon became a drain on local economy: according to British observers, the Wallachian state was required to indebt itself to European creditors for a total sum of ten million \"piastres\", in order to provide for the Russian army's needs. Accusations of widespread plunder were made by the French author Marc Girardin, who travelled in the region during the 1830s; Girardin alleged that Russian troops had confiscated virtually all cattle for their needs, and that Russian officers had insulted the political class by publicly stating that, in case the supply in oxen was to prove insufficient, boyars were to be tied to carts in their place – an accusation backed by Ion Ghica in his recollections. He also recorded a mounting dissatifaction with the new rule, mentioning that peasants were especially upset by the continuous maneuvers of troops inside the Principalities' borders. Overall, Russophilia in the two Principalities appears to have suffered a major blow. Despite the confiscations, statistics of the time indicated that the pace of growth in heads of cattle remained steady (a 50% growth appears to have occurred between 1831 and 1837).\n\nThe Treaty of Adrianople, signed on September 14, 1829, confirmed both the Russian victory and the provisions of the Akkerman Convention, partly amended to reflect the Russian political ascendancy over the area. Furthermore, Wallachia's southern border was settled on the Danube thalweg, and the state was given control over the previously Ottoman-ruled ports of Brăila, Giurgiu, and Turnu Măgurele. The freedom of commerce (which consisted mainly of grain exports from the region) and freedom of navigation on the river and on the Black Sea were passed into law, allowing for the creation of naval fleets in both Principalities in the following years, as well as for a more direct contact with European traders, with the confirmation of the Moldavia and Wallachia's commercial privileges first stipulated at Akkerman (alongside the tight links soon established with Austrian and Sardinian traders, the first French ships visited Wallachia in 1830).\n\nRussian occupation over Moldavia and Wallachia (as well as the Bulgarian town of Silistra) was prolonged pending the payment of war reparations by the Ottomans. Emperor Nicholas I assigned Fyodor Pahlen as governor over the two countries before the actual peace, as the first in a succession of three \"Plenipotentiary Presidents of the Divans in Moldavia and Wallachia\", and official supervisor of the two commissions charged with drafting the \"Statutes\". The bodies, having for secretaries Gheorghe Asachi in Moldavia and Barbu Dimitrie Știrbei in Wallachia, had resumed their work while the cholera epidemic was still raging, and continued it after Pahlen had been replaced with Pyotr Zheltukhin in February 1829.\n\nThe post-Adrianople state of affairs was perceived by many of the inhabitants of Wallachia and Moldavia as exceptionally abusive, given that Russia confiscated both of the Principalities' treasuries, and that Zheltukhin used his position to interfere in the proceedings of the commission, nominated his own choice of members, and silenced all opposition by having anti-Russian boyars expelled from the countries (including, notably, Iancu Văcărescu, a member of the Wallachian \"Divan\" who had questioned his methods of government). According to the radical Ghica, \"General Zheltukhin [and his subordinates] defended all Russian abuse and injustice. Their system consisted in never listening to complaints, but rather rushing in with accusations, so as to inspire fear, so as the plaintiff would run away for fear of not having to endure a harsher thing than the cause of his [original] complaint\". However, the same source also indicated that this behaviour was hiding a more complex situation: \"Those who nevertheless knew Zheltukhin better… said that he was the fairest, most honest, and most kind of men, and that he gave his cruel orders with an aching heart. Many gave assurance that he had addressed to the emperor heart-breaking reports on the deplorable state in which the Principalities were to be found, in which he stated that Russia's actions in the Principalities deserved the scorn of the entire world\".\n\nThe third and last Russian governor, Pavel Kiselyov (or \"Kiseleff\"), took office on October 19, 1829, and faced his first major task in dealing with the last outbreaks of plague and cholera, as well as the threat of famine, with which he dealt by imposing quarantines and importing grain from Odessa. His administration, lasting until April 1, 1834, was responsible for the most widespread and influential reforms of the period, and coincided with the actual enforcement of the new legislation. The earliest of Kiselyov's celebrated actions was the convening of the Wallachian \"Divan\" in November 1829, with the assurance that abuses were not to be condoned anymore.\n\n\"Regulamentul Organic\" was adopted in its two very similar versions on July 13, 1831 (July 1, OS) in Wallachia and January 13, 1832 (January 1, OS) in Moldavia, after having minor changes applied to it in Saint Petersburg (where a second commission from the Principalities, presided by Mihail Sturdza and Alexandru Vilara, assessed it further). Its ratification by Sultan Mahmud II was not a requirement from Kiselyov's perspective, who began enforcing it as a \"fait accompli\" before this was granted. The final version of the document sanctioned the first local government abiding by the principles of separation and balance of powers. The \"hospodars\", elected for life (and not for the seven-year term agreed in the \"Convention of Akkerman\") by an Extraordinary Assembly which comprised representatives of merchants and guilds, stood for the executive, with the right to nominate ministers (whose offices were still referred to using the traditional titles of courtiers) and public officials; \"hospodars\" were to be voted in office by an electoral college with a confirmed majority of high-ranking boyars (in Wallachia, only 70 persons were members of the college).\nEach National Assembly (approximate translation of \"Adunarea Obștească\"), inaugurated in 1831–2, was a legislature itself under the control of high-ranking boyars, comprising 35 (in Moldavia) or 42 members (in Wallachia), voted into office by no more than 3,000 electors in each state; the judiciary was, for the very first time, removed from the control of \"hospodars\". In effect, the \"Regulament\" confirmed earlier steps leading to the eventual separation of church and state, and, although Orthodox church authorities were confirmed a privileged position and a political say, the religious institution was closely supervised by the government (with the establishment of a quasi-salary expense).\n\nA fiscal reform ensued, with the creation of a poll tax (calculated per family), the elimination of most indirect taxes, annual state budgets (approved by the Assemblies) and the introduction of a civil list in place of the \"hospodars\"' personal treasuries. New methods of bookkeeping were regulated, and the creation of national banks was projected, but, like the adoption of national fixed currencies, was never implemented.\n\nAccording to the historian Nicolae Iorga, \"The [boyar] oligarchy was appeased [by the \"Regulament\"'s adoption]: a beautifully harmonious modern form had veiled the old medieval structure…. The \"bourgeoisie\"… held no influence. As for the peasant, he lacked even the right to administer his own commune, he was not even allowed to vote for an Assembly deemed, as if in jest, «national».\" Nevertheless, conservative boyars remained suspicious of Russian tutelage, and several expressed their fear that the regime was a step leading to the creation of a regional \"guberniya\" for the Russian Empire. Their mistrust was, in time, reciprocated by Russia, who relied on \"hospodars\" and the direct intervention of its consuls to push further reforms. Kiselyov himself voiced a plan for the region's annexation to Russia, but the request was dismissed by his superiors.\n\nBeginning with the reformist administration of Kiselyov, the two countries experienced a series of profound changes, political, social, as well as cultural.\n\nDespite underrepresentation in politics, the middle class swelled in numbers, profiting from a growth in trade which had increased the status of merchants. Under continuous competition from the \"sudiți\", traditional guilds (\"bresle\" or \"isnafuri\") faded away, leading to a more competitive, purely capitalist environment. This nevertheless signified that, although the traditional Greek competition for Romanian merchants and artisans had become less relevant, locals continued to face one from Austrian subjects of various nationalities, as well as from a sizeable immigration of Jews from the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria and Russia – prevented from settling in the countryside, Jews usually became keepers of inns and taverns, and later both bankers and leaseholders of estates. In this context, an anti-Catholic sentiment was growing, based, according to Keith Hitchins, on the assumption that Catholicism and Austrian influence were closely related, as well as on a widespread preference for secularism.\nThe Romanian middle class formed the basis for what was to become the liberal electorate, and accounted for the xenophobic discourse of the National Liberal Party during the latter's first decade of existence (between 1875 and World War I).\n\nUrban development occurred at a very fast pace: overall, the urban population had doubled by 1850. Population estimates for Bucharest, the capital of Wallachia, were about 70,000 inhabitants in 1831, 60,000 in 1851, and about 120,000 in 1859. For Iași, the capital of Moldavia, the estimates were 60,000 inhabitants for 1831, 70,000 for 1851, and about 65,000 for 1859. Brăila and Giurgiu, Danube ports returned to Wallachia by the Ottomans, as well as Moldavia's Galați, grew from the grain trade to become prosperous cities. Kiselyov, who had centered his administration on Bucharest, paid full attention to its development, improving its infrastructure and services and awarding it, together with all other cities and towns, a local administration (\"see History of Bucharest\"). Public works were carried out in the urban sphere, as well as in the massive expansion of the transport and communications system.\n\nThe success of the grain trade was secured by a conservative take on property, which restricted the right of peasants to exploit for their own gain those plots of land they leased on boyar estates (the \"Regulament\" allowed them to consume around 70% of the total harvest per plot leased, while boyars were allowed to use a third of their estate as they pleased, without any legal duty toward the neighbouring peasant workforce); at the same time, small properties, created after Constantine Mavrocordatos had abolished serfdom in the 1740s, proved less lucrative in the face of competition by large estates – boyars profited from the consequences, as more landowning peasants had to resort to leasing plots while still owing \"corvées\" to their lords. Confirmed by the \"Regulament\" at up to 12 days a year, the \"corvée\" was still less significant than in other parts of Europe; however, since peasants relied on cattle for alternative food supplies and financial resources, and pastures remained the exclusive property of boyars, they had to exchange right of use for more days of work in the respective boyar's benefit (as much as to equate the corresponding \"corvée\" requirements in Central European countries, without ever being enforced by laws). Several laws of the period display a particular concern in limiting the right of peasants to evade \"corvées\" by paying their equivalent in currency, thus granting the boyars a workforce to match a steady growth in grain demands on foreign markets.\n\nIn respect to pasture access, the \"Regulament\" divided peasants into three wealth-based categories: \"fruntași\" (\"foremost people\"), who, by definition, owned 4 working animals and one or more cows (allowed to use around 4 hectares of pasture); \"mijlocași\" (\"middle people\") – two working animals and one cow (around 2 hectares); \"codași\" (\"backward people\") – people who owned no property, and not allowed the use of pastures.\n\nAt the same time, the major demographic changes took their toll on the countryside. For the very first time, food supplies were no longer abundant in front of a population growth ensured by, among other causes, the effective measures taken against epidemics; rural–urban migration became a noticeable phenomenon, as did the relative increase in urbanization of traditional rural areas, with an explosion of settlements around established fairs.\nThese processes also ensured that industrialization was minimal (although factories had first been opened during the Phanariotes): most revenues came from a highly productive agriculture based on peasant labour, and were invested back into agricultural production. In parallel, hostility between agricultural workers and landowners mounted: after an increase in lawsuits involving leaseholders and the decrease in quality of \"corvée\" outputs, resistance, hardened by the examples of Tudor Vladimirescu and various \"hajduks\", turned to sabotage and occasional violence. A more serious incident occurred in 1831, when around 60,000 peasants protested against projected conscription criteria; Russian troops dispatched to quell the revolt killed around 300 people.\n\nThe most noted cultural development under the \"Regulament\" was Romanian Romantic nationalism, in close connection with Francophilia. Institutional modernization engered a renaissance of the intelligentsia. In turn, the concept of \"nation\" was first expanded beyond its coverage of the boyar category, and more members of the privileged displayed a concern in solving problems facing the peasantry: although rarer among the high-ranking boyars, the interest was shared by most progressive political figures by the 1840s.\nNationalist themes now included a preoccupation for the Latin origin of Romanians and the common (but since discarded) reference to the entire region as \"Dacia\" (first notable in the title of Mihail Kogălniceanu's \"Dacia Literară\", a short-lived Romantic literary magazine published in 1840). As a trans-border notion, \"Dacia\" also indicated a growth in Pan-Romanian sentiment – the latter had first been present in several boyar requests of the late 18th century, which had called for the union of the two Danubian Principalities under the protection of European powers (and, in some cases, under the rule of a foreign prince). To these was added the circulation of fake documents which were supposed to reflect the text of \"Capitulations\" awarded by the Ottoman Empire to its Wallachian and Moldavian vassals in the Middle Ages, claiming to stand out as proof of rights and privileges which had been long neglected (\"see also Islam in Romania\").\n\nEducation, still accessible only to the wealthy, was first removed from the domination of the Greek language and Hellenism upon the disestablishment of Phanariotes sometime after 1821; the attempts of Gheorghe Lazăr (at the Saint Sava College) and Gheorghe Asachi to engender a transition towards Romanian-language teaching had been only moderately successful, but Wallachia became the scene of such a movement after the start of Ion Heliade Rădulescu's teaching career and the first issue of his newspaper, \"Curierul Românesc\". Moldavia soon followed, after Asachi began printing his highly influential magazine \"Albina Românească\". The \"Regulament\" brought about the creation of new schools, which were dominated by the figures of Transylvanian Romanians who had taken exile after expressing their dissatifaction with Austrian rule in their homeland – these teachers, who usually rejected the adoption of French cultural models in the otherwise conservative society (viewing the process as an unnatural one), counted among them Ioan Maiorescu and August Treboniu Laurian.\nAnother impetus for nationalism was the Russian-supervised creation of small standing armies (occasionally referred to as \"militias\"; \"see Moldavian military forces and Wallachian military forces\"). The Wallachian one first maneuvered in the autumn of 1831, and was supervised by Kiselyov himself. According to Ion Ghica, the prestige of military careers had a relevant tradition: \"Only the arrival of the Muscovites [sic] in 1828 ended [the] young boyars' sons flighty way of life, as it made use of them as commissioners (\"mehmendari\") in the service of Russian generals, in order to assist in providing the troops with [supplies]. In 1831 most of them took to the sword, signing up for the national militia.\"\nThe Westernization of Romanian society took place at a rapid pace, and created a noticeable, albeit not omnipresent, generation gap. The paramount cultural model was the French one, following a pattern already established by contacts between the region and the French Consulate and First Empire (attested, among others, by the existence of a Wallachian plan to petition Napoleon Bonaparte, whom locals believed to be a descendant of the Byzantine Emperors, with a complaint against the Phanariotes, as well as by an actual anonymous petition sent in 1807 from Moldavia). This trend was consolidated by the French cultural model partly adopted by the Russians, a growing mutual sympathy between the Principalities and France, increasingly obvious under the French July Monarchy, and, as early as the 1820s, the enrolment of young boyars in Parisian educational institutions (coupled with the 1830 opening of a French-language school in Bucharest, headed by Jean Alexandre Vaillant). The young generation eventually attempted to curb French borrowings, which it had come to see as endangering its nationalist aspirations.\n\nIn 1834, despite the founding documents' requirements, Russia and the Ottoman Empire agreed to appoint the first two \"hospodars\" (instead of providing for their election), as a means to ensure both the monarchs' support for a moderate pace in reforms and their allegiance in front of conservative boyar opposition. The choices were Alexandru II Ghica (the stepbrother of the previous monarch, Grigore IV) as Prince of Wallachia and Mihail Sturdza (a distant cousin of Ioniță Sandu) as Prince of Moldavia. The two rulers (generally referred to as \"Domnii regulamentare\" – \"statutory\" or \"regulated reigns\"), closely observed by the Russian consuls and various Russian technical advisors, soon met a vocal and unified opposition in the Assemblies and elsewhere.\n\nImmediately after the confirmation of the \"Regulament\", Russia had begun demanding that the two local Assemblies each vote an \"Additional Article\" (\"Articol adițional\") – one preventing any modification of the texts without the common approval of the courts in Istanbul and Saint Petersburg. In Wallachia, the issue turned into scandal after the pressure for adoption mounted in 1834, and led to a four-year-long standstill, during which a nationalist group in the legislative body began working on its own project for a constitution, proclaiming the Russian protectorate and Ottoman suzerainty to be over, and self-determination with guarantees from all European Powers of the time. The radical leader of the movement, Ion Câmpineanu, maintained close contacts with Polish nobleman Adam Jerzy Czartoryski's Union of National Unity (as well as with other European nationalists Romantics); after the \"Additional Article\" passed due to Ghica's interference and despite boyar protests, Câmpineanu was forced to abandon his seat and take refuge in Central Europe (until being arrested and sent back by the Austrians to be imprisoned in Bucharest). From that point on, opposition to Ghica's rule took the form of Freemason and \"carbonari\"-inspired conspiracies, formed around young politicians such as Mitică Filipescu, Nicolae Bălcescu, Eftimie Murgu, Ion Ghica, Christian Tell, Dimitrie Macedonski, and Cezar Bolliac (all of whom held Câmpineanu's ideology in esteem) — in 1840, Filipescu and most of his group (who had tried in vain to profit from the Ottoman crisis engendered by Muhammad Ali's rebellion) were placed under arrest and imprisoned in various locations.\nNoted abuses against the rule of law and the consequent threat of rebellion made the Ottoman Empire and Russia withdraw their support for Ghica in 1842, and his successor, Gheorghe Bibescu, reigned as the first and only prince to have been elected by any one of the two Assemblies. In Moldavia, the situation was less tense, as Sturdza was able to calm down and manipulate opposition to Russian rule while introducing further reforms.\nIn 1848, upon the outbreak of the European revolutions, liberalism consolidated itself into more overt opposition, helped along by contacts between Romanian students with the French movement. Nevertheless, the Moldavian revolution of late March 1848 was an abortive one, and led to the return of Russian troops on its soil. Wallachia's revolt was successful: after the \"Proclamation of Islaz\" on June 21 sketched a new legal framework and land reform with an end to all \"corvées\" (a program acclaimed by the crowds), the conspirators managed to topple Bibescu, who had by then dissolved the Assembly, without notable violence, and established a Provisoral Government in Bucharest.\n\nThe new executive, orchestrating the public burning of the \"Regulament\" in September, attempted to play Ottoman interests against Russian ones, trying to obtain backing from the Porte; the relative initial success was rendered void after Russian diplomats pressured Sultan Abd-ul-Mejid I to intervene in their place (and thus not risk losing yet more control over the region to a more determined Russian expedition). A Russian occupation over Wallachia soon joined the Ottoman one (begun on September 18), and both lasted until April 1851; in 1849, the two powers signed the Convention of Balta Liman, which asserted the right of the Porte to nominate \"hospodars\" for seven-year terms.\n\nThe Crimean War again brought the two countries under Russian military administration, inaugurated in 1853. The \"hospodars\" of the period, Prince Grigore Alexandru Ghica in Moldavia and Prince Barbu Dimitrie Știrbei in Wallachia, were removed from their thrones, and the region was governed by the Russian general Aleksandr Ivanovich Budberg.\n\nAs the Balkans remained a secondary theatre of war, the two Principalities were taken over by a neutral Austrian administration in September 1854 – part of a settlement between the Porte and Russia (the Austrians remained until 1857). Grigore Ghica and Știrbei were returned to the thrones in the same year, and completed the last series of reforms carried under the terms of the \"Regulament\". The most far-reaching among these were the ones concerning Roma slavery. In Moldavia, Romas were liberated, without a period of transition, on December 22, 1855; the change was more gradual in Wallachia, where measures to curb trade had been taken earlier, and where the decision to ban the ownership of slaves was taken by Știrbei on February 20, 1856. Concerned by worsening boyar-peasant relations, Știrbei, who governed without an Assembly (and had instead appointed his own \"Divan\"), enacted measures to improve the situation in the countryside, and ultimately enforced contract-based work as the rule on estates (whereby peasants who were not indebted after five years in service could leave the land they were working on).\nThis was the moment when the call for union of the two Principalities began to be voiced with confidence, and the two monarchs showed more or less approval for the designs of the unionist \"Partida Națională\" (created by 1848 revolutionaries who had returned from exile).\n\nThe war ended with the Treaty of Paris (March 30, 1856), which placed the countries, still as Ottoman vassals, under the protectorate of all European Powers (the United Kingdom, the French Empire, the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia, Prussia, Austria, and, never again completely, Russia). The protector states had to decide on a compromise formula for the projected union; the Ottomans demanded and obtained, in contradiction with the \"Regulament\", the removal of both \"hospodars\" from their thrones, pending elections for the ad hoc Divans. The outcome remained disputed until the election of Alexandru Ioan Cuza, who reigned as first \"Domnitor\" of the \"United Principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia\", the basis of modern Romania.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3206340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3206340", "title": "Sanhedrin (tractate)", "text": "Sanhedrin (tractate)\n\nSanhedrin (סנהדרין) is one of ten tractates of Seder Nezikin (a section of the Talmud that deals with damages, i.e. civil and criminal proceedings). It originally formed one tractate with Makkot, which also deals with criminal law. The Gemara of the tractate is noteworthy as precursors to the development of common law principles, for example the presumption of innocence and the rule that a criminal conviction requires the concurrence of twelve.\n\nWithin Seder Nezikin, the Sanhedrin focuses on questions of jurisdiction, criminal law and punishments. The tractate includes eleven chapters, addressing the following topics:\n\nThis is the order found in the Gemara, but the Mishna has the last 2 chapters reversed in order.\n\n\nSanhedrin (Talmud)\n"}
{"id": "2279728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279728", "title": "Slayer rule", "text": "Slayer rule\n\nThe slayer rule, in the common law of inheritance, is a doctrine that prohibits inheritance by a person who murders someone from whom he or she stands to inherit (e.g., a murderer does not inherit from parents he or she killed). In calculating inheritance of the decedent's estate, the effect of the slayer rule was that the slayer would be treated as though he or she had predeceased the person who had been murdered, therefore his or her share of the estate would pass to his or her issue.\n\nWhile convicting someone of the crime of murder requires proof beyond a reasonable doubt, the slayer rule applies to civil law, not criminal law, so it is only necessary to prove the wrongful killing by a preponderance of the evidence, as in a wrongful death claim. This means that even a slayer who is acquitted of the murder in criminal court can still be divested of the inheritance by the civil court administering the estate.\n\nAt common law, American courts used two different theories when dealing with early slayer cases. Some courts would disinherit the slayer because of the public policy principle that a slayer should not profit from his crime (No Profit theory).\n\nIn \"Mutual Life v. Armstrong\", the first American case to consider the issue of whether a slayer could profit from his crime, the Court set forth the No Profit (the term \"No Profit\" theory is a term coined by legal scholar Adam D. Hansen in an effort to distinguish early common law cases that applied a similar outcome when dealing with slayers). public policy justification of slayer statutes saying: “It would be a reproach to the jurisprudence of the country if one could recover insurance money payable on the death of the party whose life he had feloniously taken.”\n\nOther courts were reluctant to disinherit a slayer in absence of a legislatively codified statute directing the court to do so (Strict Construction theory).\n\nThe Strict Construction theory (the term \"Strict Construction\" theory is a term coined by legal scholar Adam D. Hansen in an effort to distinguish early common law cases that dealt applied a similar outcome when disinheriting slayers). originated from Judge John Clinton Gray’s dissent in \"Riggs v. Palmer\". Judge Gray argued that the criminal law already established punishment for slayers. A court denying the estate to a slayer was to, in effect, add significant further punishment to what a slayer received under the criminal statute. Judge Gray argued that this was not something the court was permitted to do without an express, written statute. In Judge Gray’s opinion, the court could not simply create or imagine such statutes so as to obtain a morally pleasing result.\n\nSlayer statutes codify the public policy principle that a murderer cannot profit from his crime. Slayer statutes provide a right of civil action to a victim’s successors for the purpose of directing the victim’s testate/intestate property away from the slayer. Such an action is brought by a successor, or other party of interest (e.g., life insurance company, bank), on behalf of the victim’s estate. The slayer statute applies to both real and personal property that would have been acquired by intestacy or by will.\n\nIn 1936, legal scholar John W. Wade proposed a No Profit theory statutory fix to promote uniformity amongst the states in dealing with slayer cases. In 1969, the Uniform Code Commission included No Profit theory language in its first promulgation of the Uniform Probate Code (UPC). Forty-eight states have enacted laws that strip a slayer of any inheritance benefit he would have gained from his unlawful act.\n\nIn the United States, most jurisdictions have enacted a slayer statute, which codifies the rule and supplies additional conditions. Such laws have sometimes been construed narrowly because the relevant statutes are criminal in nature, and serve to take away someone's rights that are otherwise afforded by law. Interpreted this way, a slayer statute will not prevent the killer from acquiring title to the property by other means. In jurisdictions with a common law slayer rule, a slayer statute may serve to extend and supplement the common law rule, rather than limiting it. For example, where the statute requires the heir to have been convicted to bar inheritance, a common law slayer rule that does not have this requirement may still serve to bar inheritance.\n\nIn 2012, the Arizona legislature amended Arizona's slayer rule to include the lesser crime of manslaughter in an effort to subject more killers to civil disinheritance. Prior to the 2012 amendment, only killers found guilty of homicide in the first or second degree would be disinherited under Arizona's slayer rule. Several specific cases (e.g., Grace Pianka; Douglas Grant; and Gilbert Ramos) prompted the Arizona legislature to amend Arizona's slayer rule by 1) expressly defining “intentional and felonious” to mean any individual who is found guilty of murder in the first or second degree, or the lesser crime of manslaughter; 2) allowing victims to place the decedent’s estate in constructive trust immediately from the time of the killing; and 3) allowing the victims to place the slayer’s estate (i.e., life insurance benefits) in constructive trust, in the case of murder-suicide. Arizona now touts its slayer rule as the strongest in the nation.\n\nThe Maryland slayer rule is harsher than most other states. In addition to prohibiting murderers from inheriting from their victims, Maryland's slayer rule prohibits anyone else from inheriting from murder victims through their murderers; Maryland's Slayer Rule is thus similar in structure to corruption of blood.\n\nFor example, a mother leaves her son $50,000, and leaves her son's child (her grandchild) $100,000. She leaves her residuary estate (i.e., whatever else is left of the estate) to her daughter. If the son kills his mother, then under Maryland law, the son's child will inherit the $100,000; however the son's $50,000 (which is also the indirect inheritance of the grandchild through his father), is not available under Maryland law to either the son, or his child. The $50,000 becomes part of the grandmother's residuary estate and goes to the daughter.\n\nTexas law states \"No conviction shall work corruption of blood or forfeiture of estate.\" However, If a beneficiary of a life insurance policy or contract is convicted and sentenced (including accomplices) in wilfully bringing about the death of the insured, proceeds are then paid in accordance with the Texas Insurance Code.\n\n"}
{"id": "16767795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16767795", "title": "Soviet–Lithuanian Non-Aggression Pact", "text": "Soviet–Lithuanian Non-Aggression Pact\n\nSoviet–Lithuanian Non-Aggression Pact (Lithuanian: \"Lietuvos–TSRS nepuolimo sutartis\") was a non-aggression pact, signed between the Soviet Union and Lithuania on September 28, 1926. The pact confirmed all basic provisions of the Soviet–Lithuanian Peace Treaty of 1920. The Soviet Union continued to recognize Vilnius and Vilnius Region to Lithuania, despite the fact that the territories were under Polish control since the Żeligowski's Mutiny in 1920. It also recognized Lithuania's interests in the Klaipėda Region. In exchange Lithuania agreed not to join any alliances directed against the Soviet Union, which meant international isolation at the time when Soviet Union was not a member of the League of Nations. Ratifications were exchanged in Kaunas on November 9, 1926, and the pact became effective on the same day. The pact was registered in \"League of Nations Treaty Series\" on March 4, 1927.\n\nThe pact was initiated by Lithuanians who sought a new direction in the foreign policy after the Locarno Treaties. The negotiations started on December 25, 1925 when People's Commissar of Foreign Affairs Georgy Chicherin stopped in Kaunas on his way to Moscow. The negotiations were difficult as Latvia and Estonia disapproved the pact because it prevented creation of the Baltic Entente, Poland claimed that the agreement violated the Peace of Riga, and Germany was wary over strengthening Lithuanian claims to the Klaipėda Region.\n\nThe pact was controversial in Lithuania and its ratification by the Third Seimas on November 5, 1926 caused student protests against \"Bolshevization\" of Lithuania. As one of the protests was dispersed by force, it is cited as one of the reasons for the military coup in December 1926. However, the diplomats believed that keeping the dispute over Vilnius Region relevant in the European politics was worth the cost. The original pact was set to expire in five years, but on May 6, 1931, it was extended for another five years. On April 4, 1934, it was further extended to December 31, 1944. A separate convention was signed to define \"aggression\" on July 5, 1933. The pact was broken when on June 15, 1940, the Soviet Union occupied Lithuania.\n"}
{"id": "2913870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2913870", "title": "Status (law)", "text": "Status (law)\n\nLegal status is the position held by something or someone with regard to law. It is a set of privileges, obligations, powers or restrictions that a person or thing has which are encompassed in or declared by legislation.\n"}
{"id": "19025809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19025809", "title": "Steven Wilf", "text": "Steven Wilf\n\nSteven R. Wilf is a Professor of Law at the University of Connecticut School of Law. He is an expert on intellectual property law, historical jurisprudence, and legal history.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Wilf earned his J.D. from Yale Law School and his Ph.D. from the Yale Department of History in 1995. He has been a visiting professor at Hebrew University of Jerusalem and DADD guest professor at the Free University of Berlin. Most recently, he has served as Maurice Greenberg Visiting Professor at Yale Law School.\nFor nearly a decade, Wilf has participated in the Advanced Research Forum on Intellectual Property Rights at the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in Geneva. He has served as Abraham L. Kaminstein Scholar in Residence at the United States Copyright Office.\nWilf has held a number of fellowships at academic institutions, including the John Carter Brown Fellow at Brown University, Comparative Legal History at the University of Chicago, Samuel I. Golieb Fellow at the New York University School of Law, a fellowship at The Institute for Advanced Studies in Jerusalem, and the Center for the Humanities, Wesleyan University, Cluster in Intellectual Property/Piracy. In 2011-2012, he was a Lemelson Fellow at the Smithsonian Institution where he worked on the history of patent law and new technologies. Prior to coming to Connecticut, where he was one of the founders of the Intellectual Property Program, Professor Wilf was a law clerk for the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.\nIn 2010-2011, he was a Microsoft Fellow in Law, Property, and the Economic Organization of Society at the Princeton Program in Law and Public Affairs. During the academic year 2013-2014, Wilf was appointed Elizabeth S. and Richard M. Cashin Fellow, Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Studies at Harvard University.\n\nIn Intellectual Property law, where he has written on trade secret, trademark, copyright, and patent systems, his research has focused on the role of culture in shaping doctrinal legal rules. As in other areas of his legal historical work, Wilf has identified the contingent elements of historical development, and seeks to unpack alternative normative outcomes.\n\nWilf’s scholarship in legal history has been fairly eclectic, often crossing temporal and spatial boundaries. His writings include historiographic essays analyzing legal history method and genres, writings on the role of popular legal culture in the founding era of United States law, studies in the history of intellectual property, the use of artistic forms to express legal ideas, and legal transplants.\n\nWilf has been particularly known for what he calls “the legal history of the imagination.” His early book, \"Law's Imagined Republic: Popular Politics and Criminal Justice in Revolutionary America\", examines the late eighteenth-century emergence of a rich vernacular legal language in the area of criminal law, which was intimately connected to American patriot agitation against the British in the course of the American Revolution. He argues that America's decisive adaptation of rule of law should be rooted in this formative revolutionary extra-official legalism rather than in the court-based interpretation of the United States Constitution that emerges during the period of the Early Republic.\n\nHis book \"The Law Before the Law\", addresses the question of how to understand law before a law giving moment. It suggests that archaic law is often revived by those operating in subsequent legal systems in order to establish a less encumbered jurisprudential space. Wilf’s recent scholarship on the history of intellectual property law investigates the seminal role of social movements in constructing legal roles, the difficulties of establishing global legal norms within the context of commercial competition, and the particular place of extra-official grassroots mechanisms for protecting technological and artistic innovation.\n\nEditor, \"Intellectual Property Law and History\" (2012).\n\n\"Law/Text/Past\", 1 U.C. Irvine L. Rev. 543 (2011).\n\n\"Law's Imagined Republic: Popular Politics and Criminal Justice in Revolutionary America\" (2010).\n\n\"The Invention of Legal Primitivism,\" 10 Theoretical Inquiries in Law 485 (July 2009).\n\n\"The Law Before the Law\" (2008).\n\nThe Making of the Post-War Paradigm in American Intellectual Property Law, 31 Colum. J.L. & Arts 139 (2008).\n"}
{"id": "926209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=926209", "title": "Surtax", "text": "Surtax\n\nA surtax may be a tax levied upon a tax, or a tax levied upon income.\n\nIn 1929, Supertax (which had been introduced in the Finance Act 1909 at the rate of 6 old pence in the pound (2.5%) on incomes over £5,000 per year) was renamed Sur-tax. By 1934, the rate was variable from 1 shilling to 7 shillings and sixpence in the pound (5% to 37.5%). It was replaced by income tax in 1973.\n\nPrevious examples of a broadly levied surtax in the United States include one imposed to help finance the Vietnam War during the Lyndon B. Johnson administration. It essentially consisted of calculating one's ordinary federal income tax liability and then adding another 10% to it—the amount of the surtax.\n\nAs the U.S. income tax system at that time was highly progressive, the surtax was much higher on those with higher incomes, as a 10% surtax imposed on a tax rate of 20% would result in an overall rate of 22%, while the same surtax imposed on a rate of 50% would result in an overall rate of 55%.\n\nSome anti-war protesters refused to pay this tax, stating that while they were not anarchists and understood the need for and positive role played by government in many areas, they wanted none of their tax money going to a war that they felt was immoral. The surtax was repealed well before the war ended in Vietnam.\n\nSurtaxes can be imposed on other taxes. They are usually imposed on the grounds of moral justification; they only affect persons who are already paying taxes rather than extending taxation to new areas or persons who are not previously being taxed.\n\nA surtax of 4.3 percent was recently proposed on incomes over $500,000 by Congress to alleviate the alterations to the Alternative Minimum Tax code in the United States.\n\nA surtax was proposed as part of the 2009–2010 health care reform in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "31530797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31530797", "title": "Tuz resmi", "text": "Tuz resmi\n\nThe tuz resmi was a tax on salt in the Ottoman Empire.\n\nDuring the 15th century, households working in the salt industry were exempted from taxes such as avariz, in return for their contributions to tuz resmi. In one case, an entire village involved in salt-production was exempted from the cizye, avariz-i divaniyye \"and\" tekalif-i örfiye taxes.\n\nAn emin could play a key role in salt taxation; most of the surviving records of the emin stationed in Ragusa (who handled customs and tariffs on foreign trade) are receipts for salt duty. There were even dedicated salt-duty officers, who were granted the title \"tuz emini\".\n\nTuz resmi was usually arranged through the muqata'ah system; the government would grant a salt-producing resource to a contractor or tax-farmer, who would then be obliged to return a proportion of salt production (or the cash equivalent) to government coffers. There was usually a separate muqata'ah for each salt-mine. During the Tanzimat reforms, the Ottoman government took over complete control of salt production, and prices were fixed; in 1879, the salt industry was given to bankers as collateral against government borrowing, and then in 1881 it was made part of the Regie Company which gave all salt revenues to the Public Debt Commission - in an attempt to help pay off the Ottoman government's foreign debts. In the face of this government control of salt production (and of salt prices), smuggling became a problem.\n\nIn the later 19th century, government revenue from tuz resmi was typically 70-80 million kurus per year; by 1912 revenue had risen to 130,476,788 kurus - much higher than other tariffs such as the muskirat resmi (spirits tax) or the damga resmi (stamp duty), although taxes on land and crops continued to return more revenue.\n"}
{"id": "47145690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47145690", "title": "UCLA Journal of Environmental Law and Policy", "text": "UCLA Journal of Environmental Law and Policy\n\nThe UCLA Journal of Environmental Law and Policy is a student-run law review published at the University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law. The journal primarily publishes articles and comments discussing environmental law and policy and related subjects.\n\nThe journal was established in 1980 with the goal of confronting \"those environmental problems which are currently before the public, and to provide a variety of opinions and suggested solutions to the problems.\" Between 1980 and 1982, each issue of the journal would include a collection of articles focused on a single topic or theme. Beginning with the third volume in the fall of 1982, the journal began including articles on a range of different topics in each individual issue. The journal also collaborates with the Emmett Institute on Climate Change and the Environment to host environmental law symposia.\n\nIn 2016, Washington and Lee University's Law Journal Rankings placed the journal among the top ten environmental, natural resources, and land use law journals with the highest impact factor. Articles in the journal have been cited by several state supreme courts as well as the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Articles also appear in treatises written by \"American Law Reports\" and \"American Jurisprudence\".\n\nThe journal is abstracted or indexed in EBSCO databases, HeinOnline, LexisNexis, Westlaw, and the University of Washington's Current Index to Legal Periodicals. Tables of contents are also available through Infotrieve and Ingenta, and the journal posts past issues on its website.\n\n"}
{"id": "55471223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55471223", "title": "Ughill Hall shootings", "text": "Ughill Hall shootings\n\nOn 21 September 1986, Ian Wood shot and killed his mistress Danielle Ledez and her daughter Stephanie (aged 3) and severely injured Christopher (aged 5), Ledez's elder child, at Ughill Hall in Bradfield near Sheffield, United Kingdom. Wood left his .38 Enfield revolver in the kitchen and called the police before fleeing the scene. He went on the run for over a week, making several telephone calls to journalists and family members. Eight days later he threatened to jump off the Amiens Cathedral in France but was talked down by the police after seven hours. He was then extradited back to Sheffield for trial.\n\nOn 30 July 1987, Wood was convicted on two counts of murder, one of attempted murder and one of theft, after a week-long trial. He had pleaded not guilty to the murder of Danielle, instead submitting a manslaughter plea claiming he killed her to complete a suicide pact. An appeal against the guilty verdict was filed a month later and rejected in 1989. The case impacted upon British firearms policy, especially the manner in which regional police forces communicate over firearm ownership.\n\nIan Wood (born 1949) began renting Ughill Hall, an 18-room mansion on the outskirts of Bradfield, with his mistress Danielle Ledez in April 1986 after leaving his wife Margaret and his three children. Wood was a solicitor and the ex secretary of the Law Society in Sheffield.\n\nDanielle Ledez (1948-1986) was a French teacher from Amiens, France, who moved to Ughill Hall with Wood and her two children whilst in the process of divorcing her second husband (and father of the children) Colin Lloyd, a teacher from Sheffield.\n\nAt approximately 12 midnight on 21 September 1986, Wood went to the playroom in the mansion and killed his mistress Danielle Ledez by shooting her once in the head. Ledez was 10 weeks pregnant by Wood. Wood then proceeded to play hide-and-seek with Ledez's daughter Stephanie (aged 3), after which he led her into Christopher's bedroom and shot her twice in the head, killing her instantly. He then took Ledez's son Christopher (aged 5) into the bathroom and told him to close his eyes as he had a surprise for him, then shot him twice in the head. Wood then bludgeoned the boy with a large ruler four or five times in the back of the head.\n\nWood changed clothes, packed his bags, and left the house shortly afterwards, leaving the weapon he used, an .38 Enfield revolver, in the kitchen with one live round left. The police went to the mansion on the evening of 22 September 1986 after receiving a telephone call from Wood; finding all the doors and windows locked, they broke down the door. Christopher was rushed to Sheffield Children's Hospital with severe head injuries and was placed on life support after surviving without medical attention for 21 hours.\n\nFollowing the discovery of the bodies, the police appealed to Wood to turn himself in and warned members of the public not to approach him as he may be armed. Wood's wife Margaret and their three children were put under police protection immediately, as was Ledez's husband Colin Lloyd. A total of five homes in England were put under protection throughout the manhunt. A formal arrest warrant was issued on 23 September 1986 with more details on Wood's flight, including the numberplate of the car he fled in.\n\nOn 23 September 1986, a police press conference was interrupted when Wood made a series of telephone calls to Brenda Tunney, a reporter for the local newspaper \"Sheffield Weekly Gazette\". Wood refused to disclose his location but claimed the purpose of the calls was to \"put his side\".\n\nWood made no further telephone calls to either the police or journalists for nearly 48 hours after the initial series of calls. By 26 September he had made at least eight phone calls. On 27 September, Wood called Tunney four times asking about funeral arrangements for Ledez and her daughter. The police discussed the mental state of Wood with a consultant psychiatrist on the same day due to the firearm confiscations and the phone calls. The following day, Wood made three more calls to Tunney and threatened suicide in one of them; he claimed he killed because of \"love and desperation, not anger and hate\".\n\nOn 25 September, a receptionist at the Automobile Association office in Barnstaple reported that a man matching Wood's description had requested an international driving licence. Interpol were notified of the case on the same day, after which French police interviewed Ledez's parents. Up until this point, Wood, who owned no other properties, was believed by police to still be in the Yorkshire area. After Wood's capture, British and French authorities were \"puzzled\" by the ease with which Wood travelled under his own name. At his trial, it was established that Wood had gone to a pub after committing the killings and then, over the course of the next few days, travelled to Dover where he caught a ferry to France.\n\nOn 29 September, Wood joined a public tour of Amiens Cathedral, approximately away from Ledez's birthplace, but broke away from the tour group at about 12 noon, climbed over the parapet, and clung to a gargoyle about above the ground, threatening to commit suicide by jumping off. He left a note with a member of staff at the cathedral shortly beforehand informing them of his intention to commit suicide, which prompted them to call the police. \n\nThe police, firemen, the church's priest, and members from the British Consulate pleaded with Wood for seven hours, at which point Wood surrendered. A crowd of several hundred people had gathered to watch from below. Wood later claimed that he did not wish his family to see his fall on television, describing the scene as \"a circus\". Wood had telephoned Ledez's family to inform them of his intention to commit suicide.\n\nA day after Wood's surrender, British police filed an extradition request to French authorities to send Wood back to the UK for prosecution. Wood decided not to object to the extradition request after a brief meeting with his family and was confident that he would receive a fair trial in a British court. On 7 October, a formal request on behalf of the Director of Public Prosecutions was made to a magistrate in Sheffield. Wood was flown back to the UK on 19 November where he was remanded in custody.\n\nThe police successfully applied to continue holding Wood on remand on double murder and attempted murder charges at Sheffield Magistrates' Court on 22 November. Wood made a further short committal appearance in court on 1 December and his trial was formally announced on 3 February 1987.\n\nOn 1 December 1986, the prosecution charged Wood on two counts of murder and one count of attempted murder, for Danielle, Stephanie, and Christopher, respectively. Wood also faced a specimen charge of stealing £84,000 from clients he represented in property deals, although the prosecution claimed the sum could have been £150,000.\n\nWood pleaded not guilty to the murder of Danielle and instead entered a manslaughter plea on the grounds that they had agreed to a suicide pact. The prosecution did not accept the manslaughter plea and pursued a trial for the murder of Danielle. However, Wood pleaded guilty to the murder of Stephanie and the attempted murder of Christopher. He also pleaded guilty to stealing £84,000 from clients.\n\nThe Homicide Act 1957 states that if a person kills someone in pursuance of a suicide pact and then does not commit suicide themselves, they are guilty only of manslaughter and not murder. However, Geoffrey Rivlin, leading the prosecution, told the court that in such a situation the onus is on the killer to prove that a suicide pact was made.\n\nWood gave the court a detailed account of the five-point agreement he claimed to have made with Ledez as to what to do after the killings and before his suicide:\n\nRivlin argued that Wood's story did \"not have a ring of truth about it\". Several of Ledez's French friends who were interviewed by police claimed that Ledez had shown no signs of depression or suicidal intentions. In addition, her mother received a telephone call hours before Ledez died and she did not suspect her daughter was suicidal.\n\nTo support Wood's claim, the defence called Wood's mother, who said that Ledez had confided her suicidal intention to her on multiple occasions and that she feared that her husband Colin would physically harm her or Christopher. The witness also stated that Wood had called her within 24 hours of the shootings and explained the plan to her. The prosecution called Alan Wales, Wood's doctor, who testified that he advised the police to confiscate Wood's gun collection after an appointment on 11 November 1985. Wales said that Wood appeared \"distressed\" and prescribed him with antidepressants.\n\nOn 30 July 1987, the final day of the trial, the prosecution argued that Wood's suicide threat on Amiens Cathedral was not genuine and was done only to disguise his true motive, with Rivlin summarising that Wood \"killed out of his obsessive hatred, not love\". Gilbert Gray, leading the defence, argued that Wood had nothing to gain from lying about a suicide pact because he would be sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder and attempted murder of Ledez's children anyway.\n\nOn 31 July 1987, the jury at Sheffield Crown Court unanimously rejected Wood's claim that he killed Ledez as part of a suicide pact and found him guilty of murder. Justice Taylor sentenced Wood to life imprisonment for each murder, 12 years for the attempted murder, and three years for the specimen charges of theft from clients. Wood was struck off the Law Society register and the Law Society Compensation Fund paid out at least £240,000 in compensation to the theft victims.\n\nOn 28 August 1987, Wood's solicitor filed an appeal against the guilty verdict. The appeal was rejected on 25 July 1989.\n\nAfter the trial, a dispute occurred between South Yorkshire Police and Sussex Police over which force was responsible for erroneously allowing Wood access to firearms. Wood's ten-piece gun collection had been confiscated twice; firstly in December 1985 over fears from his wife and doctor of deteriorating mental health and alcoholism, and secondly because of an administrative error in renewing his licence. The guns were returned two weeks after the first confiscation. South Yorkshire Police later said that they had to return them because there was no evidence that Wood was a threat to himself or others. \n\nIn March 1986, Wood bought 50 rounds of ammunition in Sheffield for his .38 Enfield revolver which he had inherited after his father used it to commit suicide. South Yorkshire Police ascribed these events to an \"administrative mix-up\" with Sussex Police, who were responsible for executing the firearms clause in Wood's father's will. Sussex Police said that when Wood asked for the gun and the remaining 11 rounds they tried to dissuade him but he returned a month later with a renewed firearms certificate from South Yorkshire Police. The differing interpretations of the Firearms Act by the two police forces resulted in the Home Office intervening and seeking a detailed explanation from both forces and holding talks with them over possible amendments to the Firearms Act.\n\nBill Michie, the Member of Parliament for Sheffield Heeley, campaigned for stricter firearm ownership regulations, such as psychiatric assessment of prospective gun owners, in response to the murders. In October 1986, Michie asked Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher if the government would change its firearms policy in response to the murders, to which she responded: \"The Home Office ... will keep that matter under permanent review\". \n\nLess than a month after Wood's conviction, the Hungerford massacre took place, in which Michael Robert Ryan killed 16 people. This prompted Parliament to pass the Firearms (Amendment) Act 1988, which banned civilian ownership of nearly all semi-automatic weapons.\n"}
{"id": "8687200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8687200", "title": "Washington Park Subdivision", "text": "Washington Park Subdivision\n\nThe Washington Park Subdivision is the name of the historic 3-city block by 8-city block subdivision in the northwest corner of the Woodlawn community area, on the South Side of Chicago in Illinois that stands in the place of the original Washington Park Race Track. The area evolved as a redevelopment of the land previously occupied by the racetrack. It was originally an exclusively white neighborhood that included residential housing, amusement parks, and beer gardens.\n\nDuring the late 1920s and 1930s, the area became the subject of discriminatory twenty-year covenants, which were determined to be invalid by the United States Supreme Court, when challenged in a seminal case brought by Carl Hansberry. The case is a vital part of legal studies and considered an important part of a broad class of histories. The play \"Raisin in the Sun\" is based on Lorraine Hansberry's struggles in this neighborhood.\n\nDue to the non-rectangular shape of the Washington Park community area, the original Washington Park Race Track actually occupied the Southern two-thirds of the Washington Park Subdivision, which is an 8-city block by 3-city block area in northwest corner of the Woodlawn community area and bounded by Dr. Martin Luther King Drive to the west, South Cottage Grove Avenue to the East, East 60th Street to the North and East 63rd Street to the South. This is the area directly south of Washington Park and both south and east of the Washington Park community area. It would be part of the Washington Park community area if the community area were to complete its logical proper rectangle.\n\nBetween 1884 and 1905, the race track occupied part of the area now known as Washington Park Subdivision. After the city outlawed gambling, the area was redeveloped as a residential housing subdivision with neighboring commercial recreation such as the White City amusement park that flourished until the Great Depression. The neighborhood also included a beer garden that was remodeled by Frank Lloyd Wright.\n\nBetween 1900 and 1934, the African American population in Chicago grew from 30,000 to 236,000. In this time, Chicago's demographics changed so that instead of having this population diluted in scattered places, it was concentrated in two large strips of land. The concentration was enforced by violence at first, but restrictive covenants became the preferred way to enforce segregation after a few decades.\n\nWhen necessary, community organizations used violence to pursue their segregationist purposes, and between 1917 and 1921, bomb use discouraged encroachment into majority white neighborhoods. The bombs were used at the residences of African Americans as well as the properties of real estate agents and bankers. In 1919, African American banking magnate Jesse Binga, the owner of the first Chicago bank to be operated by African Americans, and the first African American who lived in the Washington Park Subdivision, endured five bombings of his home by angry whites. Binga lived on the block diagonally northwest of the northwest boundary of the subdivision at 5922 South Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive.\n\nAlthough they were previously rare, racially restrictive covenants among property owners that outlawed the purchase, lease, or occupation of their properties by African Americans became common in Chicago in the 1920s, following the Great Migration. Local businessmen and the University of Chicago became alarmed at the prospect of poorer African Americans moving from the Black Belt due to a combination of racial succession and economic decline. In 1926, the United States Supreme Court upheld racially restrictive covenants in Corrigan v. Buckley (). In 1927, the Chicago Real Estate Board (CREB) sent representatives throughout the city to promote such covenants, which it viewed as a progressive alternative to violence. The board representatives provided model contracts drafted by the Chicago Plan Commission as part of their efforts. By 1928, the \"Hyde Park Herald\" reported that the covenants prevailed throughout the South Side, and 95% of the homes in the subdivision were covenanted. Most African American neighborhoods were bounded by covenanted areas since 85% of Chicago was covenanted.\n\nBetween 1928 and 1940, the subdivision was a legal battleground. In 1928, landlords in the subdivision signed the covenants in which they agreed that they would not rent to non-whites. The language of the covenants state that no properties in the subdivision \"...shall be sold, given, conveyed or leased to any negro or negroes, and no permission or license to use or occupy any part thereof shall be given to any negro except house servants or janitors or chauffeurs employed thereon...\" The covenants were signed by \"owners of land on the one or the other side of Evans, Langley, Champlain, St. Lawrence, Rhodes, Eberhart, Vernon and South Park Avenues, between 60th and 63rd Streets and on 60th, 61st and 62nd Streets between South Park and Cottage Grove Avenues\" on September 30, 1927, and they were recorded at the Cook County Register of Deeds on February 1, 1928. They were intended to be valid and in force until January 1, 1948.\n\nThe Great Depression decreased white demand for the subdivision's properties. A few well-off African Americans convinced some owners to sell properties to them. The most famous case was that of Dr. James L. Hall, who rented a property located at 419 E. 60th St. from the white Issac Kleiman. In 1933, Olive Ida Burke (the wife of Mr. Burke—a future defendant in the famous Hansberry v. Lee case) sued Kleiman in the case now known as \"Burke v. Kleiman\". The circuit court granted an injunction in favor of the plaintiffs, which was upheld on appeal by the Supreme Court of Illinois. The plaintiffs stipulated that as of 1928 more than 95% of the property owners signed the covenant. This stipulation was later proved false—only 54% had actually signed.\n\nIn 1937, Carl Hansberry purchased a property from James Joseph Burke located at 6140 South Rhodes. Anna M. Lee, and other promoters of the covenants, sued to prevent Hansberry's family from living in the neighborhood. This led to the Hansberry v. Lee, case. Defendants argued that the stipulation made previously in Burke v. Kleiman that more than 95% of the owners had signed the covenant was false and the case should be reajudicated. Plaintiffs, while admitting to the fact, contended that the principle of \"res judicata\" barred courts from rehearing the old arguments. The Illinois courts ruled in favor of plaintiffs. However the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People decided to represent the buyer in the United States Supreme Court. The case caught the attention of national real estate magazines and African American newspapers. The U. S. Supreme Court eventually reversed that ruling stating the application of \"res judicata\" in this case would violate Fourteenth Amendment. The play \"Raisin in the Sun\" was inspired by Lorraine Hansberry's time in the neighborhood after her father won the repeal of restrictive covenants.\n\nThe result of \"Hansberry v. Lee\" led to racial succession. White tenants were often evicted to make way for higher-paying African American renters. By 1950, the subdivision was over 99 percent African American. The Hansberry case is a seminal case in civil procedure and class action legal studies. It is also considered an important study of African American, Chicago and legal history.\n\nWhile the purchase case proceeded, some landlords subdivided properties and rented them to blacks at a premium. Some realtors began encouraging white families to move out so that they could rent properties to African Americans. Smaller property owners were pressed to sell to realtors or directly to African Americans because the neighborhood was undergoing a racial transformation. The conditions of this neighborhood are described in a section of \"Black Metropolis\" by St. Clair Drake and Horace Roscoe Cayton.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruling and several similar rulings led to the racial transformation of the Woodlawn and Hyde Park community areas. Political futures were determined by positions taken on this issue. Future five-term Mayor of Chicago Richard J. Daley ran for Cook County Sheriff in 1946 as a progressive anti-covenant candidate. Eventually, in Shelley v. Kraemer, , which was argued by Thurgood Marshall, the U. S. Supreme Court declared restrictive covenants in general unenforceable.\n\n"}
