{"id": "53495367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53495367", "title": "Agnata Butler", "text": "Agnata Butler\n\nAgnata Frances Butler (née Ramsay; 1867–1931) was a British classical scholar. She was among the first generation of women to take the Classical Tripos examinations at the University of Cambridge, and was the only person to be placed in the top division of the first class at the end of her third year, in 1887. She married the Master of Trinity College, Montagu Butler, in August 1888, becoming the leading hostess in Cambridge. She published a version of Book VII of Herodotus' \"Histories\" in 1891.\n\nShe was born Agnata Ramsay in London on 28 January 1867, the daughter of Sir James Henry Ramsay, 10th Baronet of Bamff, and Elizabeth Mary Charlotte née Scott-Kerr. She came from a family with a history of academic achievement as her father published books on history, her uncle George Gilbert Ramsay was a professor of humanity at Glasgow University and her grandfather, Sir George Ramsay, published works on philosophy.\n\nBrought up in Perthshire, she attended St Leonards School in St Andrews. In 1884, she went as the Misses Metcalfes' Scholar to Girton College, Cambridge, where she read Classics. Her achievement in being the only candidate in 1887 to be placed in the top division of the first class in the Classical Tripos examinations – thereby being placed above all of the men in her year – was marked with a cartoon in \"Punch\" which was entitled 'Honour to Agnata Frances Ramsay' and showed her boarding a train's first-class compartment marked 'For Ladies Only'.\n\nWhile a student, she worked hard at her studies but also found time for outdoor pursuits which she enjoyed, including tennis and skating. She was president of the debating society and, while she did not speak often, she impressed others with her eloquence and humility.\n\nIn August 1888, she married the Master of Trinity, Henry Montagu Butler. They had met at the Cambridge Greek Play, a performance of \"Oedipus Rex\" in November 1887 for which Butler had arranged a large party of 42. He had included Agnata because of her prowess in the classics but he later wrote that it was her \"goodness ... not her Greek and Latin, which have stolen my heart\". Even so, he allowed that, on their honeymoon, they \"read a great deal of Greek together\".\n\nThey had three sons, James, Gordon, and Nevile. Their first child was born while she was working on her edition of Herodotus, which prompted \"Punch\" to run another punning cartoon, in which she was portrayed as ordering 'a crib for Herodotus'. James became an academic, and was Regius Professor of Modern History at Cambridge University; Gordon was killed in action in Egypt in 1916; Nevile became a diplomat, serving as British Ambassador to Brazil and to the Netherlands.\n\nAfter the death of her husband in 1918, she remained in Cambridge, where she was involved in the local Christian Science church. She died in Harrow on 27 May 1931.\n\nAt Cambridge, she worked on a version of Book VII (\"Polymnia\") of Herodotus' \"Histories\". It was published in the original Ancient Greek with notes in 1891, as part of Macmillan's Classical series for colleges and schools. She may have been the first British woman to produce an edition of a classical author. In 2006, Mary Beard wrote that \"Agnata Ramsey was one of the most notorious casualties of the university marriage market\", as she \"did very little classics ever after\".\n\nHer husband, Montagu Butler, was friends with the poet laureate, Alfred, Lord Tennyson. In 1892 the couple visited Farringford House, where she and Tennyson discussed classical works such as the Alcaics of Horace and Sappho. She recalled his scepticism about the recent discovery of Troy,\n\nAnother famous classicist was A. E. Housman who wrote in 1911 to thank her after a visit,\n\nA prize for the best classics students in their second or third year was established and awarded by the Butlers – the \"Agnata Butler Prize\". Winners included Caroline Skeel (1893/4), Dorothy Tarrant (1907) and Barbara Wootton (1917).\n\n"}
{"id": "30277296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30277296", "title": "Alexander Broadie", "text": "Alexander Broadie\n\nAlexander Broadie , Scottish philosopher, emeritus professor of logic and rhetoric, and honorary professorial research fellow at Glasgow University. He writes on the Scottish philosophical tradition, chiefly the philosophy of the Pre-Reformation period, the 17 century, and the Enlightenment.\n\nBroadie attended the Royal High School, Edinburgh, the University of Edinburgh (MA), Balliol College, Oxford (MLitt), and the University of Glasgow (PhD, DLitt). He was Henry Duncan prize lecturer in Scottish Studies, Royal Society of Edinburgh (1990–1993), and has been a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh since 1991. As Gifford Lecturer in Natural Theology at Aberdeen University in 1994, he delivered a series of Lectures which were published the following year under the title \"The Shadow of Scotus: Philosophy and Faith in Pre-Reformation Scotland\". Since demitting his professorship of Logic and Rhetoric at Glasgow University (held from 1994 to 2009) he has been honorary professorial research fellow there, mainly researching 17-century Scottish philosophy.\n\nIn 2007 Broadie was awarded the degree of DUniv honoris causa by Blaise Pascal University at Clermont-Ferrand in recognition of his contribution to Franco-Scottish collaboration in the field of the history of philosophy.\n\nBroadie’s \"A History of Scottish Philosophy\" (2009) was named Saltire Society Scottish History Book of the Year and in July 2018 he received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Eighteenth-Century Scottish Studies Society.\n\nDuring the past decade Broadie has been active in several international networks. His roles have included: Principal Investigator, International Network: ‘Scottish philosophy and philosophers in seventeenth-century Scotland and France’, 2010-2014, funded by the Leverhulme Trust; and Co-Investigator (with Dr Ramona Fotiade), International Research Network: ‘Existential Philosophy and Literature: The Franco-Scottish Connection - Past and Present’, (2017-2019), funded by the Royal Society of Edinburgh. He is presently working on three books relating to Scottish philosophy of the seventeenth century, as well as co-editing (with Dr Craig Smith) the second edition of \"The Cambridge Companion to the Scottish Enlightenment\" and co-editing (with Prof Paul Wood) \"Thomas Reid and the University\", the tenth and final volume in the Edinburgh edition of Thomas Reid, a series to which he has contributed \"Thomas Reid on Logic, Rhetoric and the Fine Arts\" (2005).\n\n"}
{"id": "2057171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2057171", "title": "Angolan Civil War", "text": "Angolan Civil War\n\nThe Angolan Civil War () was a civil conflict in Angola, beginning in 1975 and continuing, with interludes, until 2002. The war began immediately after Angola became independent from Portugal in November 1975. The war was a power struggle between two former liberation movements, the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA). The war was used as a surrogate battleground for the Cold War by rival states such as the Soviet Union, Cuba, South Africa and the United States.\n\nThe MPLA and UNITA had different roots in Angolan society and mutually incompatible leaderships, despite their shared aim of ending colonial rule. A third movement, the National Front for the Liberation of Angola (FNLA), having fought the MPLA with UNITA during the war for independence, played almost no role in the Civil War. Additionally, the Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda (FLEC), an association of separatist militant groups, fought for the independence of the province of Cabinda from Angola.\n\nThe 27-year war can be divided roughly into three periods of major fighting – from 1975 to 1991, 1992 to 1994 and from 1998 to 2002 – with fragile periods of peace. By the time the MPLA achieved victory in 2002, more than 500,000 people had died and over one million had been internally displaced. The war devastated Angola's infrastructure and severely damaged public administration, the economy and religious institutions.\n\nThe Angolan Civil War was notable due to the combination of Angola's violent internal dynamics and massive foreign intervention. The war became a Cold War struggle, as the Soviet Union and the United States, with their allies, provided military assistance to parties in the conflict. The conflict became closely intertwined with the Second Congo War in the neighbouring Democratic Republic of the Congo and the South African Border War.\n\nAngola's three rebel movements had their roots in the anti-colonial movements of the 1950s. The MPLA was primarily an urban based movement in Luanda and its surrounding area. It was largely composed of Mbundu people. By contrast the other two major anti-colonial movements the FNLA and UNITA, were rurally based groups. The FNLA largely consisted of Bakongo people hailing from Northern Angola. UNITA, an offshoot of the FNLA, was mainly composed of Ovimbundu people from the Central highlands.\n\nSince its formation in the 1950s, the MPLA's main social base has been among the Ambundu people and the multiracial intelligentsia of cities such as Luanda, Benguela and Huambo. During its anti-colonial struggle of 1962–74, the MPLA was supported by several African countries, as well as by the Soviet Union. Cuba became the MPLA's strongest ally, sending significant contingents of combat and support personnel to Angola. This support, as well as that of several other countries of the Eastern Bloc, e.g. Romania and East Germany, was maintained during the Civil War. Yugoslavia provided financial military support for the MPLA, including $14 million in 1977, as well as Yugoslav security personnel in the country and diplomatic training for Angolans in Belgrade. The United States Ambassador to Yugoslavia wrote of the Yugoslav relationship with the MPLA, and remarked, \"Tito clearly enjoys his role as patriarch of guerrilla liberation struggle.\" Agostinho Neto, MPLA's leader during the civil war, declared in 1977 that Yugoslav aid was constant and firm, and described the help as extraordinary. According to a November, 1978 special communique, Portuguese troops were among the 20,000 MPLA troops that participated in a major offensive in central and southern Angola.\n\nThe FNLA formed parallel to the MPLA, and was initially devoted to defending the interests of the Bakongo people and supporting the restoration of the historical Kongo Empire. However, it rapidly developed into a nationalist movement, supported in its struggle against Portugal by the government of Mobutu Sese Seko in Zaire. During the early 1960s, the FNLA was also supported by the People's Republic of China, but when UNITA was founded in the mid-1960s, China switched its support to this new movement, because the FNLA had shown little real activity. The United States refused to give the FNLA support during the movement's war against Portugal, which was a NATO ally of the U.S.; however, the FNLA did receive U.S. aid during the civil war.\n\nUNITA's main social basis were the Ovimbundu of central Angola, who constituted about one third of the country's population, but the organization also had roots among several less numerous peoples of eastern Angola. UNITA was founded in 1966 by Jonas Savimbi, who until then had been a prominent leader of the FNLA. During the anti-colonial war, UNITA received some support from the People's Republic of China. With the onset of the civil war, the United States decided to support UNITA and considerably augmented their aid to UNITA in the decades that followed. However, in the latter period, UNITA's main ally was the Republic of South Africa.\n\nAngola, like most African countries, became constituted as a nation through colonial intervention. In Angola's case, its colonial power – Portugal – was present and active in the territory, in one way or another, for over four centuries.\n\nThe original population of this territory were dispersed Khoisan groups. These were absorbed or pushed southwards, where residual groups still exist, by a massive influx of Bantu people who came from the north and east.\n\nThe Bantu influx began around 500 BC, and some continued their migrations inside the territory well into the 20th century. They established a number of major political units, of which the most important was the Kongo Empire whose centre was located in the northwest of what today is Angola, and which stretched northwards into the west of the present Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), the south and west of the contemporary Republic of Congo and even the southernmost part of Gabon.\n\nAlso of historical importance were the Ndongo and Matamba kingdoms to the south of the Kongo Empire, in the Ambundu area. Additionally, the Lunda Empire, in the south-east of the present day DRC, occupied a portion of what today is north-eastern Angola. In the south of the territory, and the north of present-day Namibia, lay the Kwanyama kingdom, along with minor realms on the central highlands. All these political units were a reflection of ethnic cleavages that slowly developed among the Bantu populations, and were instrumental in consolidating these cleavages and fostering the emergence of new and distinct social identities.\n\nAt the end of the 15th century, Portuguese settlers made contact with the Kongo Empire, maintaining a continuous presence in its territory and enjoying considerable cultural and religious influence thereafter. In 1575, Portugal established a settlement and fort called Saint Paul of Luanda on the coast south of the Kongo Empire, in an area inhabited by Ambundu people. Another fort, Benguela, was established on the coast further south, in a region inhabited by ancestors of the Ovimbundu people.\n\nNeither of these Portuguese settlement efforts was launched for the purpose of territorial conquest. It is true that both gradually came to occupy and farm a broad area around their initial bridgeheads (in the case of Luanda, mostly along the lower Kwanza River). However, their main function was trade – overwhelmingly the slave trade. Slaves were bought from African intermediaries and sold to Brazil and the Caribbean. In addition, Benguela developed a commerce in ivory, wax, and honey, which they bought from Ovimbundu caravans which fetched these goods from among the Ganguela peoples in the eastern part of what is now Angola.\nNonetheless, the Portuguese presence on the Angolan coast remained limited for much of the colonial period. The degree of real colonial settlement was minor, and, with few exceptions, the Portuguese did not interfere by means other than commercial in the social and political dynamics of the native peoples. There was no real delimitation of territory; Angola, to all intents and purposes, did not yet exist.\n\nIn the 19th century, the Portuguese began a more serious program of advancing into the continental interior. However, their intention was less territorial occupation and more establishing a \"de facto\" overlordship which allowed them to establish commercial networks as well as a few settlements. In this context, they also moved further south along the coast, and founded the \"third bridgehead\" of Moçâmedes. In the course of this expansion, they entered into conflict with several of the African political units.\n\nTerritorial occupation only became a central concern for Portugal in the last decades of the 19th century, during the European powers' \"Scramble for Africa\", especially following the 1884 Berlin Conference. A number of military expeditions were organized as preconditions for obtaining territory which roughly corresponded to that of present-day Angola. However, as late as 1906 only about 6% of that territory was effectively occupied, and the military campaigns had to continue. By the mid-1920s, the limits of the territory were finally fixed, and the last \"primary resistance\" was quelled in the early 1940s. It is thus reasonable to talk of Angola as a defined territorial entity from this point onwards.\n\nIn 1961, the FNLA and the MPLA, based in neighbouring countries, began a guerrilla campaign against Portuguese rule on several fronts. The Portuguese Colonial War, which included the Angolan War of Independence, lasted until the Portuguese regime's overthrow in 1974 through a leftist military coup in Lisbon. When the timeline for independence became known, most of the roughly 500,000 ethnic Portuguese Angolans fled the territory during the weeks before or after that deadline. Portugal left behind a newly independent country whose population was mainly composed by Ambundu, Ovimbundu, and Bakongo peoples. The Portuguese that lived in Angola accounted for the majority of the skilled workers in public administration, agriculture, and industry; once they fled the country, the national economy began to sink into depression.\n\nThe South African government initially became involved in an effort to counter the Chinese presence in Angola, which was feared might escalate the conflict into a local theatre of the Cold War. In 1975, South African Prime Minister B.J. Vorster authorized Operation Savannah, which began as an effort to protect engineers constructing the dam at Calueque, after unruly UNITA soldiers took over. The dam, paid for by South Africa, was felt to be at risk. The South African Defence Force (SADF) despatched an armoured task force to secure Calueque, and from this Operation Savannah escalated, there being no formal government in place and thus no clear lines of authority. The South Africans came to commit thousands of soldiers to the intervention, and ultimately clashed with Cuban forces assisting the MPLA.\n\nAfter the Carnation Revolution in Lisbon and the end of the Angolan War of Independence, the parties of the conflict signed the Alvor Accords on 15 January 1975. In July 1975, the MPLA violently forced the FNLA out of Luanda, and UNITA voluntarily withdrew to its stronghold in the south. By August, the MPLA had control of 11 of the 15 provincial capitals, including Cabinda and Luanda. South Africa intervened on 23 October, sending between 1,500 and 2,000 troops from Namibia into southern Angola in order to support the FNLA and UNITA. Zaire, in a bid to install a pro-Kinshasa government and thwart the MPLA's drive for power, deployed armored cars, paratroopers, and three infantry battalions to Angola in support of the FNLA. Within three weeks, South African and UNITA forces had captured five provincial capitals, including Novo Redondo and Benguela. In response to the South African intervention, Cuba sent 18,000 soldiers as part of a large-scale military intervention nicknamed Operation Carlota in support of the MPLA. Cuba had initially provided the MPLA with 230 military advisers prior to the South African intervention. The Cuban intervention proved decisive in repelling the South African-UNITA advance. The FNLA were likewise routed at the Battle of Quifangondo and forced to retreat towards Zaire. The defeat of the FNLA allowed the MPLA to consolidate power over the capital Luanda.\n\nIn early November 1975, the South African government warned Savimbi and Roberto that the South African Defence Force (SADF) would soon end operations in Angola despite the failure of the coalition to capture Luanda and therefore secure international recognition for their government. Savimbi, desperate to avoid the withdrawal of South Africa, asked General Constand Viljoen to arrange a meeting for him with Prime Minister of South Africa John Vorster, who had been Savimbi's ally since October 1974. On the night of 10 November, the day before the formal declaration of independence, Savimbi secretly flew to Pretoria to meet Vorster. In a reversal of policy, Vorster not only agreed to keep his troops in Angola through November, but also promised to withdraw the SADF only after the OAU meeting on 9 December. The Soviets, well aware of South African activity in southern Angola, flew Cuban soldiers into Luanda the week before independence. While Cuban officers led the mission and provided the bulk of the troop force, 60 Soviet officers in the Congo joined the Cubans on 12 November. The Soviet leadership expressly forbade the Cubans from intervening in Angola's civil war, focusing the mission on containing South Africa.\n\nIn 1975 and 1976 most foreign forces, with the exception of Cuba, withdrew. The last elements of the Portuguese military withdrew in 1975 and the South African military withdrew in February 1976. However, Cuba's troop force in Angola increased from 5,500 in December 1975 to 11,000 in February 1976. Sweden provided humanitarian assistance to both the SWAPO and the MPLA in the mid-1970s, and regularly raised the issue of UNITA in political discussions between the two movements.\n\nPresident of the United States Gerald Ford approved covert aid to UNITA and the FNLA through Operation IA Feature on 18 July 1975, despite strong opposition from officials in the State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Ford told William Colby, the Director of Central Intelligence, to establish the operation, providing an initial US$6 million. He granted an additional $8 million on 27 July and another $25 million in August.\n\nTwo days before the program's approval, Nathaniel Davis, the Assistant Secretary of State, told Henry Kissinger, the Secretary of State, that he believed maintaining the secrecy of IA Feature would be impossible. Davis correctly predicted the Soviet Union would respond by increasing involvement in the Angolan conflict, leading to more violence and negative publicity for the United States. When Ford approved the program, Davis resigned. John Stockwell, the CIA's station chief in Angola, echoed Davis' criticism saying that success required the expansion of the program, but its size already exceeded what could be hidden from the public eye. Davis' deputy, former U.S. ambassador to Chile Edward Mulcahy, also opposed direct involvement. Mulcahy presented three options for U.S. policy towards Angola on 13 May 1975. Mulcahy believed the Ford administration could use diplomacy to campaign against foreign aid to the communist MPLA, refuse to take sides in factional fighting, or increase support for the FNLA and UNITA. He warned however that supporting UNITA would not sit well with Mobutu Sese Seko, the president of Zaire.\n\nDick Clark, a Democratic Senator from Iowa, discovered the operation during a fact-finding mission in Africa, but Seymour Hersh, a reporter for \"The New York Times\", revealed IA Feature to the public on 13 December 1975. Clark proposed an amendment to the Arms Export Control Act, barring aid to private groups engaged in military or paramilitary operations in Angola. The Senate passed the bill, voting 54–22 on 19 December 1975, and the House of Representatives passed the bill, voting 323–99 on 27 January 1976. Ford signed the bill into law on 9 February 1976. Even after the Clark Amendment became law, then-Director of Central Intelligence, George H. W. Bush, refused to concede that all U.S. aid to Angola had ceased. According to foreign affairs analyst Jane Hunter, Israel stepped in as a proxy arms supplier for South Africa after the Clark Amendment took effect. Israel and South Africa established a longstanding military alliance, in which Israel provided weapons and training, as well as conducting joint military exercises.\n\nThe U.S. government vetoed Angolan entry into the United Nations on 23 June 1976. Zambia forbade UNITA from launching attacks from its territory on 28 December 1976 after Angola under MPLA rule became a member of the United Nations. According to ambassador William Scranton, the United States abstained from voting on the issue of Angola becoming a UN member state \"out of respect for the sentiments expressed by its [our] African friends\".\n\nThe Vietnam War tempered foreign involvement in Angola's civil war as neither the Soviet Union nor the United States wanted to be drawn into an internal conflict of highly debatable importance in terms of winning the Cold War. CBS Newscaster Walter Cronkite spread this message in his broadcasts to \"try to play our small part in preventing that mistake this time.\" The Politburo engaged in heated debate over the extent to which the Soviet Union would support a continued offensive by the MPLA in February 1976. Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko and Premier Alexei Kosygin led a faction favoring less support for the MPLA and greater emphasis on preserving détente with the West. Leonid Brezhnev, the then head of the Soviet Union, won out against the dissident faction and the Soviet alliance with the MPLA continued even as Neto publicly reaffirmed its policy of non-alignment at the 15th anniversary of the First Revolt.\n\nThe MPLA government and Cuban troops had control over all southern cities by 1977, but roads in the south faced repeated UNITA attacks. Savimbi expressed his willingness for rapprochement with the MPLA and the formation of a unity, socialist government, but he insisted on Cuban withdrawal first. \"The real enemy is Cuban colonialism,\" Savimbi told reporters, warning, \"The Cubans have taken over the country, but sooner or later they will suffer their own Vietnam in Angola.\" MPLA and Cuban troops used flame throwers, bulldozers, and planes with napalm to destroy villages in a area along the Angola-Namibia border. Only women and children passed through this area, \"Castro Corridor,\" because MPLA troops had shot all males ten years of age or older to prevent them from joining the UNITA. The napalm killed cattle to feed government troops and to retaliate against UNITA sympathizers. A number of civilians fled from their homes; 10,000 going south to Namibia and 16,000 east to Zambia, where they lived in refugee camps.\n\nAbout 1,500 members of the Front for the National Liberation of the Congo (FNLC) invaded Shaba Province (modern-day Katanga Province) in Zaire from eastern Angola on 7 March 1977. The FNLC wanted to overthrow Mobutu, and the MPLA government, suffering from Mobutu's support for the FNLA and UNITA, did not try to stop the invasion. The FNLC failed to capture Kolwezi, Zaire's economic heartland, but took Kasaji and Mutshatsha. The Zairean army (the Forces Armées Zaïroises) was defeated without difficulty and the FNLC continued to advance. On 2 April, Mobutu appealed to William Eteki of Cameroon, Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, for assistance. Eight days later, the French government responded to Mobutu's plea and airlifted 1,500 Moroccan troops into Kinshasa. This force worked in conjunction with the Zairean army, the FNLA and Egyptian pilots flying French-made Zairean Mirage fighter aircraft to beat back the FNLC. The counter-invasion force pushed the last of the militants, along with numerous refugees, into Angola and Zambia in April 1977.\n\nMobutu accused the MPLA, Cuban and Soviet governments of complicity in the war. While Neto did support the FNLC, the MPLA government's support came in response to Mobutu's continued support for Angola's FNLA The Carter Administration, unconvinced of Cuban involvement, responded by offering a meager $15 million-worth of non-military aid. American timidity during the war prompted a shift in Zaire's foreign policy towards greater engagement with France, which became Zaire's largest supplier of arms after the intervention. Neto and Mobutu signed a border agreement on 22 July 1977.\n\nJohn Stockwell, the CIA's station chief in Angola, resigned after the invasion, explaining in the April 1977 \"The Washington Post\" article \"Why I'm Leaving the CIA\" that he had warned Secretary of State Henry Kissinger that continued American support for anti-government rebels in Angola could provoke a war with Zaire. He also said that covert Soviet involvement in Angola came after, and in response to, U.S. involvement.\n\nThe FNLC invaded Shaba again on 11 May 1978, capturing Kolwezi in two days. While the Carter Administration had accepted Cuba's insistence on its non-involvement in Shaba I, and therefore did not stand with Mobutu, the U.S. government now accused Castro of complicity. This time, when Mobutu appealed for foreign assistance, the U.S. government worked with the French and Belgian militaries to beat back the invasion, the first military cooperation between France and the United States since the Vietnam War. The French Foreign Legion took back Kolwezi after a seven-day battle and airlifted 2,250 European citizens to Belgium, but not before the FNLC massacred 80 Europeans and 200 Africans. In one instance, the FNLC killed 34 European civilians who had hidden in a room. The FNLC retreated to Zambia, vowing to return to Angola. The Zairean army then forcibly evicted civilians along Shaba's border with Angola. Mobutu, wanting to prevent any chance of another invasion, ordered his troops to shoot on sight.\n\nU.S.-mediated negotiations between the MPLA and Zairean governments led to a peace accord in 1979 and an end to support for insurgencies in each other's respective countries. Zaire temporarily cut off support to the FLEC, the FNLA and UNITA, and Angola forbade further activity by the FNLC.\n\nBy the late 1970s, Interior Minister Nito Alves had become a powerful member of the MPLA government. Alves had successfully put down Daniel Chipenda's Eastern Revolt and the Active Revolt during Angola's War of Independence. Factionalism within the MPLA became a major challenge to Neto's power by late 1975 and Neto gave Alves the task of once again clamping down on dissent. Alves shut down the Cabral and Henda Committees while expanding his influence within the MPLA through his control of the nation's newspapers and state-run television. Alves visited the Soviet Union in October 1976, and may have obtained Soviet support for a coup against Neto. By the time he returned, Neto had grown suspicious of Alves' growing power and sought to neutralize him and his followers, the Nitistas. Neto called a plenum meeting of the Central Committee of the MPLA. Neto formally designated the party as Marxist-Leninist, abolished the Interior Ministry (of which Alves was the head), and established a Commission of Enquiry. Neto used the commission to target the Nitistas, and ordered the commission to issue a report of its findings in March 1977. Alves and Chief of Staff José Van-Dunem, his political ally, began planning a coup d'état against Neto.\nAlves and Van-Dunem planned to arrest Neto on 21 May before he arrived at a meeting of the Central Committee and before the commission released its report on the activities of the Nitistas. However, the MPLA changed the location of the meeting shortly before its scheduled start, throwing the plotters' plans into disarray, but Alves attended the meeting and faced the commission anyway. The commission released its report, accusing him of factionalism. Alves fought back, denouncing Neto for not aligning Angola with the Soviet Union. After twelve hours of debate, the party voted 26 to 6 to dismiss Alves and Van-Dunem from their positions.\n\nIn support of Alves and the coup, the People's Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola (FAPLA) 8th Brigade broke into São Paulo prison on 27 May, killing the prison warden and freeing more than 150 Nitistas. The 8th brigade then took control of the radio station in Luanda and announced their coup, calling themselves the MPLA Action Committee. The brigade asked citizens to show their support for the coup by demonstrating in front of the presidential palace. The Nitistas captured Bula and Dangereaux, generals loyal to Neto, but Neto had moved his base of operations from the palace to the Ministry of Defence in fear of such an uprising. Cuban troops loyal to Neto retook the palace and marched to the radio station. The Cubans succeeded in taking the radio station and proceeded to the barracks of the 8th Brigade, recapturing it by 1:30 p.m. While the Cuban force captured the palace and radio station, the Nitistas kidnapped seven leaders within the government and the military, shooting and killing six.\n\nThe MPLA government arrested tens of thousands of suspected Nitistas from May to November and tried them in secret courts overseen by Defense Minister Iko Carreira. Those who were found guilty, including Van-Dunem, Jacobo \"Immortal Monster\" Caetano, the head of the 8th Brigade, and political commissar Eduardo Evaristo, were shot and buried in secret graves. At least 2,000 followers (or alleged followers) of Nito Alves were estimated to have been killed by Cuban and MPLA troops in the aftermath, with some estimates claiming as high as 70,000 dead. The coup attempt had a lasting effect on Angola's foreign relations. Alves had opposed Neto's foreign policy of non-alignment, evolutionary socialism, and multiracialism, favoring stronger relations with the Soviet Union, which Alves wanted to grant military bases in Angola. While Cuban soldiers actively helped Neto put down the coup, Alves and Neto both believed the Soviet Union opposed Neto. Cuban Armed Forces Minister Raúl Castro sent an additional four thousand troops to prevent further dissension within the MPLA's ranks and met with Neto in August in a display of solidarity. In contrast, Neto's distrust of the Soviet leadership increased and relations with the USSR worsened. In December, the MPLA held its first party Congress and changed its name to the MPLA-Worker's Party (MPLA-PT). The Nitista attempted coup took a toll on the MPLA's membership. In 1975, the MPLA had reached 200,000 members, but after the first party congress, that number decreased to 30,000.\n\nThe Soviets, wanting to establish permanent military bases in Angola, tried to increase their influence, but despite persistent lobbying, especially by G. A. Zverev, the Soviet chargé d'affaires, Neto stood his ground, refusing to allow the construction of permanent military bases. With Alves no longer a possibility, the Soviet Union backed Prime Minister Lopo do Nascimento against Neto for the MPLA's leadership. Neto moved swiftly, getting the party's Central Committee to fire Nascimento from his posts as Prime Minister, Secretary of the Politburo, Director of National Television, and Director of \"Jornal de Angola\". Later that month, the positions of Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister were abolished.\n\nNeto diversified the ethnic composition of the MPLA's political bureau as he replaced the hardline old guard with new blood, including José Eduardo dos Santos. When he died on 10 September 1979, the party's Central Committee unanimously voted to elect dos Santos as President.\n\nUnder dos Santos's leadership, Angolan troops crossed the border into Namibia for the first time on 31 October, going into Kavango. The next day, dos Santos signed a non-aggression pact with Zambia and Zaire. In the 1980s, fighting spread outward from southeastern Angola, where most of the fighting had taken place in the 1970s, as the National Congolese Army (ANC) and SWAPO increased their activity. The South African government responded by sending troops back into Angola, intervening in the war from 1981 to 1987, prompting the Soviet Union to deliver massive amounts of military aid from 1981 to 1986. The USSR gave the MPLA more than US$2 billion in aid in 1984. In 1981, newly elected United States President Ronald Reagan's U.S. assistant secretary of state for African affairs, Chester Crocker, developed a linkage policy, tying Namibian independence to Cuban withdrawal and peace in Angola.\n\nThe South African military attacked insurgents in Cunene Province on 12 May 1980. The Angolan Ministry of Defense accused the South African government of wounding and killing civilians. Nine days later, the SADF attacked again, this time in Cuando-Cubango, and the MPLA threatened to respond militarily. The SADF launched a full-scale invasion of Angola through Cunene and Cuando-Cubango on 7 June, destroying SWAPO's operational command headquarters on 13 June, in what Prime Minister Pieter Willem Botha described as a \"shock attack\". The MPLA government arrested 120 Angolans who were planning to set off explosives in Luanda, on 24 June, foiling a plot purportedly orchestrated by the South African government. Three days later, the United Nations Security Council convened at the behest of Angola's ambassador to the UN, E. de Figuerido, and condemned South Africa's incursions into Angola. President Mobutu of Zaire also sided with the MPLA. The MPLA government recorded 529 instances in which they claim South African forces violated Angola's territorial sovereignty between January and June 1980.\n\nCuba increased its troop force in Angola from 35,000 in 1982 to 40,000 in 1985. South African forces tried to capture Lubango, capital of Huíla province, in Operation Askari in December 1983.\nAlso, in order to enhance MPLA's combat capacity, Romania sent 150 flight instructors and other aviation personnel, who contributed to the establishment of an Angolan Military Aviation School.\n\nOn 2 June 1985, American conservative activists held the Democratic International, a symbolic meeting of anti-Communist militants, at UNITA's headquarters in Jamba. Primarily funded by Rite Aid founder Lewis Lehrman and organized by anti-communist activists Jack Abramoff and Jack Wheeler, participants included Savimbi, Adolfo Calero, leader of the Nicaraguan Contras, Pa Kao Her, Hmong Laotian rebel leader, U.S. Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North, South African security forces, Abdurrahim Wardak, Afghan Mujahideen leader, Jack Wheeler, American conservative policy advocate, and many others. The Reagan administration, although unwilling to publicly support the meeting, privately expressed approval. The governments of Israel and South Africa supported the idea, but both respective countries were deemed inadvisable for hosting the conference.\n\nThe participants released a communiqué stating,\n\nWe, free peoples fighting for our national independence and human rights, assembled at Jamba, declare our solidarity with all freedom movements in the world and state our commitment to cooperate to liberate our nations from the Soviet Imperialists.\n\nThe United States House of Representatives voted 236 to 185 to repeal the Clark Amendment on 11 July 1985. The MPLA government began attacking UNITA later that month from Luena towards Cazombo along the Benguela Railway in a military operation named Congresso II, taking Cazombo on 18 September. The MPLA government tried unsuccessfully to take UNITA's supply depot in Mavinga from Menongue. While the attack failed, very different interpretations of the attack emerged. UNITA claimed Portuguese-speaking Soviet officers led FAPLA troops while the government said UNITA relied on South African paratroopers to defeat the MPLA attack. The South African government admitted to fighting in the area, but said its troops fought SWAPO militants.\n\nBy 1986, Angola began to assume a more central role in the Cold War, with the Soviet Union, Cuba and other Eastern bloc nations enhancing support for the MPLA government, and American conservatives beginning to elevate their support for Savimbi's UNITA. Savimbi developed close relations with influential American conservatives, who saw Savimbi as a key ally in the U.S. effort to oppose and rollback Soviet-backed, undemocratic governments around the world. The conflict quickly escalated, with both Washington and Moscow seeing it as a critical strategic conflict in the Cold War.\n\nThe Soviet Union gave an additional $1 billion in aid to the MPLA government and Cuba sent an additional 2,000 troops to the 35,000-strong force in Angola to protect Chevron oil platforms in 1986. Savimbi had called Chevron's presence in Angola, already protected by Cuban troops, a \"target\" for UNITA in an interview with \"Foreign Policy magazine\" on 31 January.\n\nIn Washington, Savimbi forged close relationships with influential conservatives, including Michael Johns (The Heritage Foundation's foreign policy analyst and a key Savimbi advocate), Grover Norquist (President of Americans for Tax Reform and a Savimbi economic advisor), and others, who played critical roles in elevating escalated U.S. covert aid to Savimbi's UNITA and visited with Savimbi in his Jamba, Angola headquarters to provide the Angolan rebel leader with military, political and other guidance in his war against the MPLA government. With enhanced U.S. support, the war quickly escalated, both in terms of the intensity of the conflict and also in its perception as a key conflict in the overall Cold War.\n\nIn addition to escalating its military support for UNITA, the Reagan administration and its conservative allies also worked to expand recognition of Savimbi as a key U.S. ally in an important Cold War struggle. In January 1986, Reagan invited Savimbi to a meeting at the White House. Following the meeting, Reagan spoke of UNITA as winning a victory that \"electrifies the world\". Two months later, Reagan announced the delivery of Stinger surface-to-air missiles as part of the $25 million in aid UNITA received from the U.S. government. Jeremias Chitunda, UNITA's representative to the U.S., became the Vice President of UNITA in August 1986 at the sixth party congress. Fidel Castro made Crocker's proposal—the withdrawal of foreign troops from Angola and Namibia—a prerequisite to Cuban withdrawal from Angola on 10 September.\n\nUNITA forces attacked Camabatela in Cuanza Norte province on 8 February 1986. ANGOP alleged UNITA massacred civilians in Damba in Uíge Province later that month, on 26 February. The South African government agreed to Crocker's terms in principle on 8 March. Savimbi proposed a truce regarding the Benguela railway on 26 March, saying MPLA trains could pass through as long as an international inspection group monitored trains to prevent their use for counter-insurgency activity. The government did not respond. In April 1987, Fidel Castro sent Cuba's Fiftieth Brigade to southern Angola, increasing the number of Cuban troops from 12,000 to 15,000. The MPLA and American governments began negotiating in June 1987.\n\nUNITA and South African forces attacked the MPLA's base at Cuito Cuanavale in Cuando Cubango province from 13 January to 23 March 1988, in the second largest battle in the history of Africa, after the Battle of El Alamein, the largest in sub-Saharan Africa since World War II. Cuito Cuanavale's importance came not from its size or its wealth but its location. South African Defence Forces maintained an overwatch on the city using new, G5 artillery pieces. Both sides claimed victory in the ensuing Battle of Cuito Cuanavale.\nAfter the indecisive results of the Battle of Cuito Cuanavale, Fidel Castro claimed that the increased cost of continuing to fight for South Africa had placed Cuba in its most aggressive combat position of the war, arguing that he was preparing to leave Angola with his opponents on the defensive. According to Cuba, the political, economical and technical cost to South Africa of maintaining its presence in Angola proved too much. Conversely, the South Africans believe that they indicated their resolve to the superpowers by preparing a nuclear test that ultimately forced the Cubans into a settlement.\n\nCuban troops were alleged to have used nerve gas against UNITA troops during the civil war. Belgian criminal toxologist Dr. Aubin Heyndrickx, studied alleged evidence, including samples of war-gas \"identification kits\" found after the battle at Cuito Cuanavale, claimed that \"there is no doubt anymore that the Cubans were using nerve gases against the troops of Mr. Jonas Savimbi.\"\n\nThe Cuban government joined negotiations on 28 January 1988, and all three parties held a round of negotiations on 9 March. The South African government joined negotiations on 3 May and the parties met in June and August in New York and Geneva. All parties agreed to a ceasefire on 8 August. Representatives from the governments of Angola, Cuba, and South Africa signed the New York Accords, granting independence to Namibia and ending the direct involvement of foreign troops in the civil war, in New York City on 22 December 1988. The United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 626 later that day, creating the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM), a peacekeeping force. UNAVEM troops began arriving in Angola in January 1989.\n\nAs the Angolan Civil War began to take on a diplomatic component, in addition to a military one, two key Savimbi allies, The Conservative Caucus' Howard Phillips and the Heritage Foundation's Michael Johns visited Savimbi in Angola, where they sought to persuade Savimbi to come to the United States in the spring of 1989 to help the Conservative Caucus, the Heritage Foundation and other conservatives in making the case for continued U.S. aid to UNITA.\n\nPresident Mobutu invited 18 African leaders, Savimbi, and dos Santos to his palace in Gbadolite in June 1989 for negotiations. Savimbi and dos Santos met for the first time and agreed to the Gbadolite Declaration, a ceasefire, on 22 June, paving the way for a future peace agreement. President Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia said a few days after the declaration that Savimbi had agreed to leave Angola and go into exile, a claim Mobutu, Savimbi, and the U.S. government disputed. Dos Santos agreed with Kaunda's interpretation of the negotiations, saying Savimbi had agreed to temporarily leave the country.\n\nOn 23 August, dos Santos complained that the U.S. and South African governments continued to fund UNITA, warning such activity endangered the already fragile ceasefire. The next day Savimbi announced UNITA would no longer abide by the ceasefire, citing Kaunda's insistence that Savimbi leave the country and UNITA disband. The MPLA government responded to Savimbi's statement by moving troops from Cuito Cuanavale, under MPLA control, to UNITA-occupied Mavinga. The ceasefire broke down with dos Santos and the U.S. government blaming each other for the resumption in armed conflict.\n\nPolitical changes abroad and military victories at home allowed the government to transition from a nominally communist state to a nominally democratic one. Namibia's declaration of independence, internationally recognized on 1 April, eliminated the threat to the MPLA from South Africa, as the SADF withdrew from Nambia. The MPLA abolished the one-party system in June and rejected Marxist-Leninism at the MPLA's third Congress in December, formally changing the party's name from the MPLA-PT to the MPLA. The National Assembly passed law 12/91 in May 1991, coinciding with the withdrawal of the last Cuban troops, defining Angola as a \"democratic state based on the rule of law\" with a multi-party system. Observers met such changes with skepticism. American journalist Karl Maier wrote: \"In the New Angola ideology is being replaced by the bottom line, as security and selling expertise in weaponry have become a very profitable business. With its wealth in oil and diamonds, Angola is like a big swollen carcass and the vultures are swirling overhead. Savimbi's former allies are switching sides, lured by the aroma of hard currency.\" Savimbi also reportedly purged some of those within UNITA whom he may have seen as threats to his leadership or as questioning his strategic course. Among those killed in the purge were Tito Chingunji and his family in 1991. Savimbi denied his involvement in the Chingunji killing and blamed it on UNITA dissidents.\n\nGovernment troops wounded Savimbi in battles in January and February 1990, but not enough to restrict his mobility. He went to Washington, D.C. in December and met with President George H. W. Bush again, the fourth of five trips he made to the United States. Savimbi paid Black, Manafort, Stone, and Kelly, a lobbying firm based in Washington, D.C., $5 million to lobby the Federal government for aid, portray UNITA favorably in Western media, and acquire support among politicians in Washington. Savimbi was highly successful in this endeavour.\n\nSenators Larry Smith and Dante Fascell, a senior member of the firm, worked with the Cuban American National Foundation, Representative Claude Pepper of Florida, Neal Blair's Free the Eagle, and Howard Phillips' Conservative Caucus to repeal the Clark Amendment in 1985. From the amendment's repeal in 1985 to 1992 the U.S. government gave Savimbi $60 million per year, a total of $420 million. A sizable amount of the aid went to Savimbi's personal expenses. Black, Manafort filed foreign lobbying records with the U.S. Justice Department showing Savimbi's expenses during his U.S. visits. During his December 1990 visit he spent $136,424 at the Park Hyatt hotel and $2,705 in tips. He spent almost $473,000 in October 1991 during his week-long visit to Washington and Manhattan. He spent $98,022 in hotel bills, at the Park Hyatt, $26,709 in limousine rides in Washington and another $5,293 in Manhattan. Paul Manafort, a partner in the firm, charged Savimbi $19,300 in consulting and additional $1,712 in expenses. He also bought $1,143 worth of \"survival kits\" from Motorola. When questioned in an interview in 1990 about human rights abuses under Savimbi, Black said, \"Now when you're in a war, trying to manage a war, when the enemy ... is no more than a couple of hours away from you at any given time, you might not run your territory according to New Hampshire town meeting rules.\"\n\nPresident dos Santos met with Savimbi in Lisbon, Portugal and signed the Bicesse Accords, the first of three major peace agreements, on 31 May 1991, with the mediation of the Portuguese government. The accords laid out a transition to multi-party democracy under the supervision of the United Nations' UNAVEM II mission, with a presidential election to be held within a year. The agreement attempted to demobilize the 152,000 active fighters and integrate the remaining government troops and UNITA rebels into a 50,000-strong Angolan Armed Forces (FAA). The FAA would consist of a national army with 40,000 troops, navy with 6,000, and air force with 4,000. While UNITA largely did not disarm, the FAA complied with the accord and demobilized, leaving the government disadvantaged.\n\nAngola held the first round of its 1992 presidential election on 29–30 September. Dos Santos officially received 49.57% of the vote and Savimbi won 40.6%. As no candidate received 50% or more of the vote, election law dictated a second round of voting between the top two contenders. Savimbi, along with eight opposition parties and many other election observers, said the election had been neither free nor fair. An official observer wrote that there was little UN supervision, that 500,000 UNITA voters were disenfranchised and that there were 100 clandestine polling stations. Savimbi sent Jeremias Chitunda, Vice President of UNITA, to Luanda to negotiate the terms of the second round. The election process broke down on 31 October, when government troops in Luanda attacked UNITA. Civilians, using guns they had received from police a few days earlier, conducted house-by-house raids with the Rapid Intervention Police, killing and detaining hundreds of UNITA supporters. The government took civilians in trucks to the Camama cemetery and Morro da Luz ravine, shot them, and buried them in mass graves. Assailants attacked Chitunda's convoy on 2 November, pulling him out of his car and shooting him and two others in their faces. The MPLA massacred over ten thousand UNITA and FNLA voters nationwide in a few days in what was known as the Halloween Massacre. Savimbi said the election had neither been free nor fair and refused to participate in the second round. He then proceeded to resume armed struggle against the MPLA.\n\nThen, in a series of stunning victories, UNITA regained control over Caxito, Huambo, M'banza Kongo, Ndalatando, and Uíge, provincial capitals it had not held since 1976, and moved against Kuito, Luena, and Malange. Although the U.S. and South African governments had stopped aiding UNITA, supplies continued to come from Mobutu in Zaire. UNITA tried to wrest control of Cabinda from the MPLA in January 1993. Edward DeJarnette, Head of the U.S. Liaison Office in Angola for the Clinton Administration, warned Savimbi that, if UNITA hindered or halted Cabinda's production, the U.S. would end its support for UNITA. On 9 January, UNITA began a 55-day battle over Huambo, the \"War of the Cities\". Hundreds of thousands fled and 10,000 were killed before UNITA gained control on 7 March. The government engaged in an ethnic cleansing of Bakongo, and, to a lesser extent Ovimbundu, in multiple cities, most notably Luanda, on 22 January in the Bloody Friday massacre. UNITA and government representatives met five days later in Ethiopia, but negotiations failed to restore the peace. The United Nations Security Council sanctioned UNITA through Resolution 864 on 15 September 1993, prohibiting the sale of weapons or fuel to UNITA.\n\nPerhaps the clearest shift in U.S. foreign policy emerged when President Bill Clinton issued Executive Order 12865 on 23 September, labeling UNITA a \"continuing threat to the foreign policy objectives of the U.S.\" By August 1993, UNITA had gained control over 70% of Angola, but the government's military successes in 1994 forced UNITA to sue for peace. By November 1994, the government had taken control of 60% of the country. Savimbi called the situation UNITA's \"deepest crisis\" since its creation. It is estimate that perhaps 120,000 people were killed in the first eighteen months following the 1992 election, nearly half the number of casualties of the previous sixteen years of war. Both sides of the conflict continued to commit widespread and systematic violations of the laws of war with UNITA in particular guilty of indiscriminate shelling of besieged cities resulting in large death toll to civilians. The MPLA government forces used air power in indiscriminate fashion also resulting in high civilian deaths. The Lusaka Protocol of 1994 reaffirmed the Bicesse Accords.\n\nSavimbi, unwilling to personally sign an accord, had former UNITA Secretary General Eugenio Manuvakola represent UNITA in his place. Manuvakola and Angolan Foreign Minister Venancio de Moura signed the Lusaka Protocol in Lusaka, Zambia on 31 October 1994, agreeing to integrate and disarm UNITA. Both sides signed a ceasefire as part of the protocol on 20 November. Under the agreement the government and UNITA would cease fire and demobilize. 5,500 UNITA members, including 180 militants, would join the Angolan national police, 1,200 UNITA members, including 40 militants, would join the rapid reaction police force, and UNITA generals would become officers in the Angolan Armed Forces. Foreign mercenaries would return to their home countries and all parties would stop acquiring foreign arms. The agreement gave UNITA politicians homes and a headquarters. The government agreed to appoint UNITA members to head the Mines, Commerce, Health, and Tourism ministries, in addition to seven deputy ministers, ambassadors, the governorships of Uige, Lunda Sul, and Cuando Cubango, deputy governors, municipal administrators, deputy administrators, and commune administrators. The government would release all prisoners and give amnesty to all militants involved in the civil war. Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe and South African President Nelson Mandela met in Lusaka on 15 November 1994 to boost support symbolically for the protocol. Mugabe and Mandela both said they would be willing to meet with Savimbi and Mandela asked him to come to South Africa, but Savimbi did not come. The agreement created a joint commission, consisting of officials from the Angolan government, UNITA, and the UN with the governments of Portugal, the United States, and Russia observing, to oversee its implementation. Violations of the protocol's provisions would be discussed and reviewed by the commission. The protocol's provisions, integrating UNITA into the military, a ceasefire, and a coalition government, were similar to those of the Alvor Agreement that granted Angola independence from Portugal in 1975. Many of the same environmental problems, mutual distrust between UNITA and the MPLA, loose international oversight, the importation of foreign arms, and an overemphasis on maintaining the balance of power, led to the collapse of the protocol.\n\nIn January 1995, U.S. President Clinton sent Paul Hare, his envoy to Angola, to support the Lusaka Protocol and impress the importance of the ceasefire onto the Angolan government and UNITA, both in need of outside assistance. The United Nations agreed to send a peacekeeping force on 8 February. Savimbi met with South African President Mandela in May. Shortly after, on 18 June, the MPLA offered Savimbi the position of Vice President under dos Santos with another Vice President chosen from the MPLA. Savimbi told Mandela he felt ready to \"serve in any capacity which will aid my nation,\" but he did not accept the proposal until 12 August. The United States Department of Defense and Central Intelligence Agency's Angola operations and analysis expanded in an effort to halt weapons shipments, a violation of the protocol, with limited success. The Angolan government bought six Mil Mi-17 from Ukraine in 1995. The government bought L-39 attack aircraft from the Czech republic in 1998 along with ammunition and uniforms from Zimbabwe Defence Industries and ammunition and weapons from Ukraine in 1998 and 1999. U.S. monitoring significantly dropped off in 1997 as events in Zaire, the Congo and then Liberia occupied more of the U.S. government's attention. UNITA purchased more than 20 FROG-7 transporter erector launchers (TEL) and three FOX 7 missiles from the North Korean government in 1999.\n\nThe UN extended its mandate on 8 February 1996. In March, Savimbi and dos Santos formally agreed to form a coalition government. The government deported 2,000 West African and Lebanese Angolans in Operation Cancer Two, in August 1996, on the grounds that dangerous minorities were responsible for the rising crime rate. In 1996 the Angolan government bought military equipment from India, two Mil Mi-24 attack helicopters and three Sukhoi Su-17 from Kazakhstan in December, and helicopters from Slovakia in March.\n\nThe international community helped install a Government of Unity and National Reconciliation in April 1997, but UNITA did not allow the regional MPLA government to take up residence in 60 cities. The UN Security Council voted on 28 August 1997, to impose sanctions on UNITA through Resolution 1127, prohibiting UNITA leaders from traveling abroad, closing UNITA's embassies abroad, and making UNITA-controlled areas a no-fly zone. The Security Council expanded the sanctions through Resolution 1173 on 12 June 1998, requiring government certification for the purchase of Angolan diamonds and freezing UNITA's bank accounts.\n\nDuring the First Congo War, the Angolan government joined the coalition to overthrow Mobutu's government due to his support for UNITA. Mobutu's government fell to the opposition coalition on 16 May 1997. The Angolan government chose to act primarily through Katangese gendarmes called the Tigres, which were proxy groups formed from the descendents of police units who had been exiled from Zaire and thus were fighting for a return to their homeland. Luanda did also deploy regular troops. In early October 1997, Angola invaded the Republic of the Congo during its civil war, and helped Sassou Nguesso's rebels overthrow the government of Pascal Lissouba. Lissouba's government had allowed UNITA the use of cities in the Republic of Congo in order to circumvent sanctions. Between 11–12 October 1997, Angolan air force fighter jets conducted a number of air strikes on government positions within Brazzaville. On 16 October 1997 rebel militia supported by tanks and a force of 1,000 Angolan troops cemented their control of Brazzaville forcing Lisouba to flee. Angolan troops remained in the country fighting militia forces loyal to Lissouba engaged in a guerrilla war against the new government.\n\nThe UN spent $1.6 billion from 1994 to 1998 in maintaining a peacekeeping force. The Angolan military attacked UNITA forces in the Central Highlands on 4 December 1998, the day before the MPLA's fourth Congress. Dos Santos told the delegates the next day that he believed war to be the only way to ultimately achieve peace, rejected the Lusaka Protocol, and asked MONUA to leave. In February 1999, the Security Council withdrew the last MONUA personnel. In late 1998, several UNITA commanders, dissatisfied with Savimbi's leadership, formed UNITA Renovada, a breakaway militant group. Thousands more deserted UNITA in 1999 and 2000.\n\nThe Angolan military launched Operation Restore, a massive offensive, in September 1999, recapturing N'harea, Mungo and Andulo and Bailundo, the site of Savimbi's headquarters just one year before. The UN Security Council passed Resolution 1268 on 15 October, instructing United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan to update the Security Council to the situation in Angola every three months. Dos Santos offered an amnesty to UNITA militants on 11 November. By December, Chief of Staff General João de Matos said the Angolan Armed Forces had destroyed 80% of UNITA's militant wing and captured 15,000 tons of military equipment. Following the dissolution of the coalition government, Savimbi retreated to his historical base in Moxico and prepared for battle. In order to isolate UNITA, the government forced civilians in countryside areas subject to UNITA influence to relocate to major cities. The strategy was successful isolating in UNITA but had adverse humanitarian consequences.\n\nUNITA's ability to mine diamonds and sell them abroad provided funding for the war to continue even as the movement's support in the Western world and among the local populace withered away. De Beers and Endiama, a state-owned diamond-mining monopoly, signed a contract allowing De Beers to handle Angola's diamond exports in 1990. According to the United Nation's \"Fowler Report\", Joe De Deker, a former stockholder in De Beers, worked with the government of Zaire to supply military equipment to UNITA from 1993 to 1997. De Deker's brother, Ronnie, allegedly flew from South Africa to Angola, directing weapons originating in Eastern Europe. In return, UNITA gave Ronnie bushels of diamonds worth $6 million. De Deker sent the diamonds to De Beer's buying office in Antwerp, Belgium. De Beers openly acknowledges spending $500 million on legal and illegal Angolan diamonds in 1992 alone. The United Nations estimates Angolans made between three and four billion dollars through the diamond trade between 1992 and 1998. The UN also estimates that out of that sum, UNITA made at least $3.72 billion, or 93% of all diamond sales, despite international sanctions.\n\nExecutive Outcomes (EO), a private military company, played a major role in turning the tide for the MPLA, with one U.S. defense expert calling the EO the \"best fifty or sixty million dollars the Angolan government ever spent.\" Heritage Oil and Gas, and allegedly De Beers, hired EO to protect their operations in Angola. Executive Outcomes trained up to 5,000 troops and 30 combat pilots in camps in Lunda Sul, Cabo Ledo, and Dondo.\n\nThe territory of Cabinda is north of Angola proper, separated by a strip of territory long in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Portuguese Constitution of 1933 designated Angola and Cabinda as overseas provinces. In the course of administrative reforms during the 1930s to 1950s, Angola was divided into districts, and Cabinda became one of the districts of Angola. The Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda (FLEC) formed in 1963 during the broader war for independence from Portugal. Contrary to the organization's name, Cabinda is an exclave, not an enclave. FLEC later split into the Armed Forces of Cabinda (FLEC-FAC) and FLEC-Renovada (FLEC-R). Several other, smaller FLEC factions later broke away from these movements, but FLEC-R remained the most prominent because of its size and its tactics. FLEC-R members cut off the ears and noses of government officials and their supporters, similar to the Revolutionary United Front of Sierra Leone in the 1990s. Despite Cabinda's relatively small size, foreign powers and the nationalist movements coveted the territory for its vast reserves of petroleum, the principal export of Angola then and now.\n\nIn the war for independence, the division of \"assimilados\" versus \"indigenas\" peoples masked the inter-ethnic conflict between the various native tribes, a division that emerged in the early 1970s. The Union of Peoples of Angola, the predecessor to the FNLA, only controlled 15% of Angola's territory during the independence war, excluding MPLA-controlled Cabinda. The People's Republic of China openly backed UNITA upon independence despite the mutual support from its adversary South Africa and UNITA's pro-Western tilt. The PRC's support for Savimbi came in 1965, a year after he left the FNLA. China saw Holden Roberto and the FNLA as the stooge of the West and the MPLA as the Soviet Union's proxy. With the Sino-Soviet split, South Africa presented the least odious of allies to the PRC.\nThroughout the 1990s, Cabindan rebels kidnapped and ransomed off foreign oil workers to in turn finance further attacks against the national government. FLEC militants stopped buses, forcing Chevron Oil workers out, and set fire to the buses on 27 March and 23 April 1992. A large-scale battle took place between FLEC and police in Malongo on 14 May in which 25 mortar rounds accidentally hit a nearby Chevron compound. The government, fearing the loss of their prime source of revenue, began to negotiate with representatives from Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda-Renewal (FLEC-R), Armed Forces of Cabinda (FLEC-FAC), and the Democratic Front of Cabinda (FDC) in 1995. Patronage and bribery failed to assuage the anger of FLEC-R and FLEC-FAC and negotiations ended. In February 1997, FLEC-FAC kidnapped two Inwangsa SDN-timber company employees, killing one and releasing the other after receiving a $400,000 ransom. FLEC-FLAC kidnapped eleven people in April 1998, nine Angolans and two Portuguese, released for a $500,000 ransom. FLEC-R kidnapped five Byansol-oil engineering employees, two Frenchman, two Portuguese, and an Angolan, in March 1999. While militants released the Angolan, the government complicated the situation by promising the rebel leadership $12.5 million for the hostages. When António Bento Bembe, the President of FLEC-R, showed up, the Angolan army arrested him and his bodyguards. The Angolan army later forcibly freed the other hostages on 7 July. By the end of the year the government had arrested the leadership of all three rebel organizations.\n\nIllicit arms trading characterized much of the later years of the Angolan Civil War, as each side tried to gain the upper hand by buying arms from Eastern Europe and Russia. Israel continued in its role as a proxy arms dealer for the United States. On 21 September 2000, a Russian freighter delivered 500 tons of Ukrainian 7.62 mm ammunition to Simportex, a division of the Angolan government, with the help of a shipping agent in London. The ship's captain declared his cargo \"fragile\" to minimize inspection. The next day, the MPLA began attacking UNITA, winning victories in several battles from 22 to 25 September. The government gained control over military bases and diamond mines in Lunda Norte and Lunda Sul, hurting Savimbi's ability to pay his troops.\n\nAngola agreed to trade oil to Slovakia in return for arms, buying six Sukhoi Su-17 attack aircraft on 3 April 2000. The Spanish government in the Canary Islands prevented a Ukrainian freighter from delivering 636 tons of military equipment to Angola on 24 February 2001. The captain of the ship had inaccurately reported his cargo, falsely claiming the ship carried automobile parts. The Angolan government admitted Simportex had purchased arms from Rosvooruzhenie, the Russian state-owned arms company, and acknowledged the captain might have violated Spanish law by misreporting his cargo, a common practice in arms smuggling to Angola.\n\nUNITA carried out several attacks against civilians in May 2001 in a show of strength. UNITA militants attacked Caxito on 7 May, killing 100 people and kidnapping 60 children and two adults. UNITA then attacked Baia-do-Cuio, followed by an attack on Golungo Alto, a city east of Luanda, a few days later. The militants advanced on Golungo Alto at 2:00 pm on 21 May, staying until 9:00 pm on 22 May when the Angolan military retook the town. They looted local businesses, taking food and alcoholic beverages before singing drunkenly in the streets. More than 700 villagers trekked from Golungo Alto to Ndalatando, the provincial capital of Cuanza Norte, without injury. According to an aid official in Ndalatando, the Angolan military prohibited media coverage of the incident, so the details of the attack are unknown. Joffre Justino, UNITA's spokesman in Portugal, said UNITA only attacked Gungo Alto to demonstrate the government's military inferiority and the need to cut a deal. Four days later UNITA released the children to a Catholic mission in Camabatela, a city from where UNITA kidnapped them. The national organization said the abduction violated their policy towards the treatment of civilians. In a letter to the bishops of Angola, Jonas Savimbi asked the Catholic Church to act as an intermediary between UNITA and the government in negotiations. The attacks took their toll on Angola's economy. At the end of May 2001, De Beers, the international diamond mining company, suspended its operations in Angola, ostensibly on the grounds that negotiations with the national government reached an impasse.\n\nMilitants of unknown affiliation fired rockets at United Nations World Food Program (UNWFP) planes on 8 June near Luena and again near Kuito a few days later. As the first plane, a Boeing 727, approached Luena someone shot a missile at the aircraft, damaging one engine but not critically as the three-man crew landed successfully. The plane's altitude, , most likely prevented the assailant from identifying his target. As the citizens of Luena had enough food to last them several weeks, the UNFWP temporarily suspended their flights. When the flights began again a few days later, militants shot at a plane flying to Kuito, the first attack targeting UN workers since 1999. The UNWFP again suspended food aid flights throughout the country. While he did not claim responsibility for the attack, UNITA spokesman Justino said the planes carried weapons and soldiers rather than food, making them acceptable targets. UNITA and the Angolan government both said the international community needed to pressure the other side into returning to the negotiating table. Despite the looming humanitarian crisis, neither side guaranteed UNWFP planes safety. Kuito, which had relied on international aid, only had enough food to feed their population of 200,000 until the end of the week. The UNFWP had to fly in all aid to Kuito and the rest of the Central Highlands because militants ambushed trucks. Further complicating the situation, potholes in the Kuito airport strip slowed aid deliveries. Overall chaos reduced the amount of available oil to the point at which the UN had to import its jet fuel.\n\nGovernment troops captured and destroyed UNITA's Epongoloko base in Benguela province and Mufumbo base in Cuanza Sul in October 2001. The Slovak government sold fighter jets to the Angolan government in 2001 in violation of the European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports.\n\nGovernment troops killed Jonas Savimbi on 22 February 2002, in Moxico province. UNITA Vice President António Dembo took over, but died from diabetes 12 days later on 3 March, and Secretary-General Paulo Lukamba became UNITA's leader. After Savimbi's death, the government came to a crossroads over how to proceed. After initially indicating the counter-insurgency might continue, the government announced it would halt all military operations on 13 March. Military commanders for UNITA and the MPLA met in Cassamba and agreed to a cease-fire. However, Carlos Morgado, UNITA's spokesman in Portugal, said the UNITA's Portugal wing had been under the impression General Kamorteiro, the UNITA general who agreed to the ceasefire, had been captured more than a week earlier. Morgado did say that he had not heard from Angola since Savimbi's death. The military commanders signed a Memorandum of Understanding as an addendum to the Lusaka Protocol in Luena on 4 April, with Santos and Lukambo observing.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 1404 on 18 April, extending the monitoring mechanism of sanctions by six months. Resolutions 1412 and 1432, passed on 17 May and 15 August respectively, suspended the UN travel ban on UNITA officials for 90 days each, finally abolishing the ban through Resolution 1439 on 18 October. UNAVEM III, extended an additional two months by Resolution 1439, ended on 19 December.\n\nUNITA's new leadership declared the rebel group a political party and officially demobilized its armed forces in August 2002. That same month, the United Nations Security Council replaced the United Nations Office in Angola with the United Nations Mission in Angola, a larger, non-military, political presence.\n\nThe civil war spawned a disastrous humanitarian crisis in Angola, internally displacing 4.28 million people – one-third of Angola's total population. The United Nations estimated in 2003 that 80% of Angolans lacked access to basic medical care, 60% lacked access to water, and 30% of Angolan children would die before the age of five, with an overall national life expectancy of less than 40 years of age.\n\nThere was an exodus from rural areas in most of the country. Today the urban population represents slightly more than half of the population, according to the latest census. In many cases, people went into cities outside the traditional area of their ethnic group. There are now important Ovimbundu communities in Luanda, Malanje, and Lubango. There has been a degree of return, but at a slow pace, while many younger people are reluctant to go to a rural life that they never knew.\n\nIn rural areas, one problem is that some were for years under the control of the MPLA-government, while others were controlled by UNITA. Some of the population fled to neighbouring countries, while others went into remote mountainous areas.\n\nThe government spent $187 million settling internally displaced persons (IDPs) between 4 April 2002, and 2004, after which the World Bank gave $33 million to continue the settling process. The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) estimated that fighting in 2002 displaced 98,000 people between 1 January and 28 February alone. IDPs comprised 75% of all landmine victims. The IDPs, unacquainted with their surroundings, frequently and predominantly fell victim to these weapons. Militant forces laid approximately 15 million landmines by 2002. The HALO Trust began demining Angola in 1994, and had destroyed 30,000 landmines by July 2007. 1,100 Angolans and seven foreign workers are employed by the HALO Trust in Angola, with demining operations expected to finish by 2014.\n\nHuman Rights Watch estimates UNITA and the government employed more than 6,000 and 3,000 child soldiers, respectively, some forcibly impressed, during the war. Additionally, human rights analysts found that between 5,000 and 8,000 underage girls were married to UNITA militants. Some girls were ordered to go and forage for food to provide for the troops – the girls were denied food if they did not bring back enough to satisfy their commander. After victories, UNITA commanders would be rewarded with women, who were often then sexually abused. The Angolan government and UN agencies identified 190 child soldiers in the Angolan army, and had relocated 70 of them by November 2002, but the government continued to knowingly employ other underage soldiers.\n\nIn John Milius's 1984 film \"Red Dawn\", Bella, one of the Cuban officers who takes part in a joint Cuban-Soviet invasion of the United States, is said to have fought in the conflicts in Angola, El Salvador, and Nicaragua.\n\nJack Abramoff wrote and co-produced the film \"Red Scorpion\" with his brother Robert in 1989. In the film, Dolph Lundgren plays Nikolai, a Soviet agent sent to assassinate an African revolutionary in a fictional country modeled on Angola. The South African government financed the film through the International Freedom Foundation, a front-group chaired by Abramoff, as part of its efforts to undermine international sympathy for the African National Congress. While working in Hollywood, Abramoff was convicted for fraud and other offenses that he had committed during his concurrent career as a lobbyist. Lundgren also starred in the 1998 film Sweepers as a demolitions expert clearing minefields in Angola.\n\nThe war provides a more comedic background story in the South African comedy \"The Gods Must Be Crazy 2\" as a Cuban and an Angolan soldier repeatedly try to take each other prisoner, but ultimately part on (more or less) amicable terms.\n\nThe 2004 film \"The Hero\", produced by Fernando Vendrell and directed by Zézé Gamboa, depicts the life of average Angolans in the aftermath of the civil war. The film follows the lives of three individuals: Vitório, a war veteran crippled by a landmine who returns to Luanda; Manu, a young boy searching for his soldier father; and Joana, a teacher who mentors the boy and begins a love affair with Vitório. \"The Hero\" won the 2005 Sundance World Dramatic Cinema Jury Grand Prize. A joint Angolan, Portuguese, and French production, \"The Hero\" was filmed entirely in Angola.\n\nThe Angolan Civil War is featured in the 2012 video game \"\", in which the player character assists Jonas Savimbi in a battle against MPLA forces.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "804581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=804581", "title": "Anne Frank", "text": "Anne Frank\n\nAnnelies Marie Frank (; ; 12 June 1929 – February or March 1945) was a German-born diarist. One of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust, she gained fame posthumously with the publication of \"The Diary of a Young Girl\" (originally \"Het Achterhuis\" in Dutch; ), in which she documents her life in hiding from 1942 to 1944, during the German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II. It is one of the world's most widely known books and has been the basis for several plays and films.\n\nBorn in Frankfurt, Germany, she lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam, Netherlands, having moved there with her family at the age of four and a half when the Nazis gained control over Germany. Born a German national, she lost her citizenship in 1941 and thus became stateless. By May 1940, the Franks were trapped in Amsterdam by the German occupation of the Netherlands. As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942, the Franks went into hiding in some concealed rooms behind a bookcase in the building where Anne's father, Otto Frank, worked. From then until the family's arrest by the Gestapo in August 1944, she kept a diary she had received as a birthday present, and wrote in it regularly. Following their arrest, the Franks were transported to concentration camps. In October or November 1944, Anne and her sister, Margot, were transferred from Auschwitz to Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where they died (probably of typhus) a few months later. They were originally estimated by the Red Cross to have died in March, with Dutch authorities setting 31 March as their official date of death, but research by the Anne Frank House in 2015 suggests they more likely died in February.\n\nOtto, the only survivor of the Franks, returned to Amsterdam after the war to find that her diary had been saved by his secretary, Miep Gies, and his efforts led to its publication in 1947. It was translated from its original Dutch version and first published in English in 1952 as \"The Diary of a Young Girl\", and has since been translated into over 60 languages.\n\nFrank was born Annelies or Anneliese Marie Frank on 12 June 1929 at the Maingau Red Cross Clinic in Frankfurt, Germany, to Edith () and Otto Heinrich Frank. She had an older sister, Margot. The Franks were liberal Jews, and did not observe all of the customs and traditions of Judaism. They lived in an assimilated community of Jewish and non-Jewish citizens of various religions. Edith was the more devout parent, while Otto was interested in scholarly pursuits and had an extensive library; both parents encouraged the children to read. At the time of Anne's birth the family lived in a house at Marbachweg 307, where they rented two floors. In 1931 the family moved to Ganghoferstrasse 24 in a fashionable liberal area called the Dichterviertel (Poets' Quarter). Both houses still exist.\n\nIn 1933, after Adolf Hitler's Nazi Party won the federal election, Edith Frank and the children went to stay with Edith's mother Rosa in Aachen. Otto Frank remained in Frankfurt, but after receiving an offer to start a company in Amsterdam, he moved there to organize the business and to arrange accommodations for his family. He began working at the Opekta Works, a company that sold the fruit extract pectin, and found an apartment on the Merwedeplein (Merwede Square) in the Rivierenbuurt neighbourhood of Amsterdam. By February 1934, Edith and the children had joined him in Amsterdam. The Franks were among 300,000 Jews who fled Germany between 1933 and 1939.\n\nAfter moving to Amsterdam, Anne and Margot Frank were enrolled in school—Margot in public school and Anne in a Montessori school. Margot demonstrated ability in arithmetic, and Anne showed aptitude for reading and writing. Anne's friend, Hanneli Goslar, later recalled that from early childhood, Frank frequently wrote, although she shielded her work with her hands and refused to discuss the content of her writing.\n\nIn 1938, Otto Frank started a second company, Pectacon, which was a wholesaler of herbs, pickling salts, and mixed spices, used in the production of sausages. Hermann van Pels was employed by Pectacon as an advisor about spices. A Jewish butcher, he had fled Osnabrück with his family. In 1939, Edith Frank's mother came to live with the Franks, and remained with them until her death in January 1942.\n\nIn May 1940, Germany invaded the Netherlands, and the occupation government began to persecute Jews by the implementation of restrictive and discriminatory laws; mandatory registration and segregation soon followed. Otto Frank tried to arrange for the family to emigrate to the United States\n– the only destination that seemed to him to be viable – but Frank's application for a visa was never processed, due to circumstances such as the closing of the U.S. consulate in Rotterdam and the loss of all the paperwork there, including the visa application. Even if it had been processed, the U.S. government at the time was concerned that people with close relatives still in Germany could be blackmailed into becoming Nazi spies.\n\nThe Frank sisters were excelling in their studies and had many friends, but with the introduction of a decree that Jews could attend only Jewish schools, they were enrolled at the Jewish Lyceum. Anne became a friend of Jacqueline van Maarsen in the Lyceum. In April 1941, Otto took action to prevent Pectacon from being confiscated as a Jewish-owned business. He transferred his shares in Pectacon to Johannes Kleiman and resigned as director. The company was liquidated and all assets transferred to Gies and Company, headed by Jan Gies. In December, Otto followed a similar process to save Opekta. The businesses continued with little obvious change and their survival allowed Otto to earn a minimal income, but sufficient to provide for his family.\n\nFor her thirteenth birthday on 12 June 1942, Frank received a book she had shown her father in a shop window a few days earlier. Although it was an autograph book, bound with red-and-white checkered cloth and with a small lock on the front, Frank decided she would use it as a diary, and she began writing in it almost immediately. In her entry dated 20 June 1942, she lists many of the restrictions placed upon the lives of the Dutch Jewish population.\n\nOtto and Edith Frank planned to go into hiding with the children on 16 July 1942, but when Margot received a call-up notice from the Zentralstelle für jüdische Auswanderung (Central Office for Jewish Emigration) on 5 July, ordering her to report for relocation to a work camp, they were forced to move the plan ten days forward. Shortly before going into hiding, Anne gave her friend and neighbour Toosje Kupers a book, a tea set, a tin of marbles, and the family cat for safekeeping. As the Associated Press reports: \"'I'm worried about my marbles, because I'm scared they might fall into the wrong hands,' Kupers said Anne told her. 'Could you keep them for me for a little while?'\"\n\nOn the morning of Monday, 6 July 1942, the Frank family moved into their hiding place, a three-story space entered from a landing above the Opekta offices on the Prinsengracht, where some of his most trusted employees would be their helpers. This hiding place became known as the \"Achterhuis\" (translated into \"Secret Annex\" in English editions of the diary). Their apartment was left in a state of disarray to create the impression that they had left suddenly, and Otto left a note that hinted they were going to Switzerland. The need for secrecy forced them to leave behind Anne's cat, Moortje. As Jews were not allowed to use public transport, they walked several kilometres from their home. The door to the \"Achterhuis\" was later covered by a bookcase to ensure it remained undiscovered.\n\nVictor Kugler, Johannes Kleiman, Miep Gies, and Bep Voskuijl were the only employees who knew of the people in hiding. Along with Gies' husband Jan Gies and Voskuijl's father Johannes Hendrik Voskuijl, they were the \"helpers\" for the duration of their confinement. The only connection between the outside world and the occupants of the house, they kept the occupants informed of war news and political developments. They catered to all of their needs, ensured their safety, and supplied them with food, a task that grew more difficult with the passage of time. Frank wrote of their dedication and of their efforts to boost morale within the household during the most dangerous of times. All were aware that, if caught, they could face the death penalty for sheltering Jews.\n\nOn 13 July 1942, the Franks were joined by the van Pels, made up of Hermann, Auguste, and 16-year-old Peter, and then in November by Fritz Pfeffer, a dentist and friend of the family. Frank wrote of her pleasure at having new people to talk to, but tensions quickly developed within the group forced to live in such confined conditions. After sharing her room with Pfeffer, she found him to be insufferable and resented his intrusion, and she clashed with Auguste van Pels, whom she regarded as foolish. She regarded Hermann van Pels and Fritz Pfeffer as selfish, particularly in regard to the amount of food they consumed. Some time later, after first dismissing the shy and awkward Peter van Pels, she recognized a kinship with him and the two entered a romance. She received her first kiss from him, but her infatuation with him began to wane as she questioned whether her feelings for him were genuine, or resulted from their shared confinement. Anne Frank formed a close bond with each of the helpers, and Otto Frank later recalled that she had anticipated their daily visits with impatient enthusiasm. He observed that Anne's closest friendship was with Bep Voskuijl, \"the young typist ... the two of them often stood whispering in the corner.\"\n\nIn her writing, Frank examined her relationships with the members of her family, and the strong differences in each of their personalities. She considered herself to be closest emotionally to her father, who later commented, \"I got on better with Anne than with Margot, who was more attached to her mother. The reason for that may have been that Margot rarely showed her feelings and didn't need as much support because she didn't suffer from mood swings as much as Anne did.\" The Frank sisters formed a closer relationship than had existed before they went into hiding, although Anne sometimes expressed jealousy towards Margot, particularly when members of the household criticized Anne for lacking Margot's gentle and placid nature. As Anne began to mature, the sisters were able to confide in each other. In her entry of 12 January 1944, Frank wrote, \"Margot's much nicer ... She's not nearly so catty these days and is becoming a real friend. She no longer thinks of me as a little baby who doesn't count.\"\n\nFrank frequently wrote of her difficult relationship with her mother, and of her ambivalence towards her. On 7 November 1942 she described her \"contempt\" for her mother and her inability to \"confront her with her carelessness, her sarcasm and her hard-heartedness,\" before concluding, \"She's not a mother to me.\" Later, as she revised her diary, Frank felt ashamed of her harsh attitude, writing: \"Anne, is it really you who mentioned hate, oh Anne, how could you?\" She came to understand that their differences resulted from misunderstandings that were as much her fault as her mother's, and saw that she had added unnecessarily to her mother's suffering. With this realization, Frank began to treat her mother with a degree of tolerance and respect.\n\nThe Frank sisters each hoped to return to school as soon as they were able, and continued with their studies while in hiding. Margot took a shorthand course by correspondence in Bep Voskuijl's name and received high marks. Most of Anne's time was spent reading and studying, and she regularly wrote and edited her diary entries. In addition to providing a narrative of events as they occurred, she wrote about her feelings, beliefs, and ambitions, subjects she felt she could not discuss with anyone. As her confidence in her writing grew, and as she began to mature, she wrote of more abstract subjects such as her belief in God, and how she defined human nature.\n\nFrank aspired to become a journalist, writing in her diary on Wednesday, 5 April 1944:\nShe continued writing regularly until her last entry of 1 August 1944.\n\nOn the morning of 4 August 1944, the \"Achterhuis\" was stormed by a group of German uniformed police (\"Grüne Polizei\") led by SS-\"Oberscharführer\" Karl Silberbauer of the \"Sicherheitsdienst\". The Franks, van Pelses, and Pfeffer were taken to RSHA headquarters, where they were interrogated and held overnight. On 5 August they were transferred to the Huis van Bewaring (House of Detention), an overcrowded prison on the Weteringschans. Two days later they were transported to the Westerbork transit camp, through which by that time more than 100,000 Jews, mostly Dutch and German, had passed. Having been arrested in hiding, they were considered criminals and sent to the Punishment Barracks for hard labour.\n\nVictor Kugler and Johannes Kleiman were arrested and jailed at the penal camp for enemies of the regime at Amersfoort. Kleiman was released after seven weeks, but Kugler was held in various work camps until the war's end. Miep Gies and Bep Voskuijl were questioned and threatened by the Security Police but not detained. They returned to the \"Achterhuis\" the following day, and found Anne's papers strewn on the floor. They collected them, as well as several family photograph albums, and Gies resolved to return them to Anne after the war. On 7 August 1944, Gies attempted to facilitate the release of the prisoners by confronting Silberbauer and offering him money to intervene, but he refused.\n\nAlthough there have been persistent claims of betrayal by an informant, the source of the information that led the authorities to raid the \"Achterhuis\" has never been identified. Night watchman Martin Sleegers and an unidentified police officer investigated a burglary at the premises in April 1944 and came across the bookcase concealing the secret door. Tonny Ahlers, a member of the National Socialist Movement in the Netherlands (NSB), was suspected of being the informant by Carol Ann Lee, biographer of Otto Frank. Another suspect is stockroom manager Willem van Maaren. The Annex occupants did not trust him, as he seemed inquisitive regarding people entering the stockroom after hours. He once unexpectedly asked the employees whether there had previously been a Mr. Frank at the office. Lena Hartog was suspected of being the informant by Anne Frank's biographer Melissa Müller. Several of these suspects knew one another and might have worked in collaboration. While virtually everyone connected with the betrayal was interrogated after the war, no one was definitively identified as being the informant.\n\nIn 2015, Flemish journalist Jeroen de Bruyn and Joop van Wijk, Bep Voskuijl's youngest son, wrote a biography, \"Bep Voskuijl, het zwijgen voorbij: een biografie van de jongste helper van het Achterhuis\" (\"Bep Voskuijl, the Silence is Over: A Biography of the Youngest Helper of the Secret Annex\"), in which they alleged that Bep's younger sister Nelly (1923–2001) could have betrayed the Frank family. According to the book, Bep's sister Diny and her fiancé Bertus Hulsman recollected Nelly telephoning the Gestapo on the morning of 4 August 1944. Nelly had been critical of Bep and their father, Johannes Voskuijl, helping the Jews. (Johannes was the one who constructed the bookcase covering the entrance to the hiding place.) Nelly was a Nazi collaborator between the ages of 19 and 23. Karl Silberbauer, the SS officer who received the phone call and made the arrest, was documented to say that the informer had \"the voice of a young woman\".\n\nIn 2016, the Anne Frank House published new research pointing to investigation over ration card fraud, rather than betrayal, as a plausible explanation for the raid that led to the arrest of the Franks. The report states that other activities in the building may have led authorities there, including activities of Frank's company. However, it does not rule out betrayal.\n\nOn 3 September 1944, the group was deported on what would be the last transport from Westerbork to the Auschwitz concentration camp and arrived after a three-day journey. On the same train was Bloeme Evers-Emden, an Amsterdam native who had befriended Margot and Anne in the Jewish Lyceum in 1941. Bloeme saw Anne, Margot, and their mother regularly in Auschwitz, and was interviewed for her remembrances of the Frank women in Auschwitz in the television documentary \"The Last Seven Months of Anne Frank\" (1988) by Dutch filmmaker Willy Lindwer and the BBC documentary \"Anne Frank Remembered\" (1995).\n\nUpon arrival at Auschwitz, the SS forcibly separated the men from the women and children, and Otto Frank was wrenched from his family. Those deemed able to work were admitted into the camp, and those deemed unfit for labour were immediately killed. Of the 1,019 passengers, 549—including all children younger than 15—were sent directly to the gas chambers. Anne Frank, who had turned 15 three months earlier, was one of the youngest people spared from her transport. She was soon made aware that most people were gassed upon arrival and never learned that the entire group from the \"Achterhuis\" had survived this selection. She reasoned that her father, in his mid-fifties and not particularly robust, had been killed immediately after they were separated.\n\nWith the other women and girls not selected for immediate death, Frank was forced to strip naked to be disinfected, had her head shaved, and was tattooed with an identifying number on her arm. By day, the women were used as slave labour and Frank was forced to haul rocks and dig rolls of sod; by night, they were crammed into overcrowded barracks. Some witnesses later testified Frank became withdrawn and tearful when she saw children being led to the gas chambers; others reported that more often she displayed strength and courage. Her gregarious and confident nature allowed her to obtain extra bread rations for her mother, sister, and herself. Disease was rampant; before long, Frank's skin became badly infected by scabies. The Frank sisters were moved into an infirmary, which was in a state of constant darkness and infested with rats and mice. Edith Frank stopped eating, saving every morsel of food for her daughters and passing her rations to them through a hole she made at the bottom of the infirmary wall.\n\nIn October 1944, the Frank women were scheduled to join a transport to the Liebau labour camp in Upper Silesia. Bloeme Evers-Emden was scheduled to be on this transport, but Anne was prohibited from going because she had developed scabies, and her mother and sister opted to stay with her. Bloeme went on without them.\n\nOn 28 October, selections began for women to be relocated to Bergen-Belsen. More than 8,000 women, including Anne and Margot Frank, and Auguste van Pels, were transported. Edith Frank was left behind and died from starvation. Tents were erected at Bergen-Belsen to accommodate the influx of prisoners, and as the population rose, the death toll due to disease increased rapidly. Frank was briefly reunited with two friends, Hanneli Goslar and Nanette Blitz, who were confined in another section of the camp. Goslar and Blitz survived the war, and discussed the brief conversations they had conducted with Frank through a fence. Blitz described Anne as bald, emaciated, and shivering. Goslar noted Auguste van Pels was with Anne and Margot Frank, and was caring for Margot, who was severely ill. Neither of them saw Margot, as she was too weak to leave her bunk. Anne told Blitz and Goslar she believed her parents were dead, and for that reason she did not wish to live any longer. Goslar later estimated their meetings had taken place in late January or early February 1945.\n\nIn early 1945, a typhus epidemic spread through the camp, killing 17,000 prisoners. Other diseases, including typhoid fever, were rampant. Due to these chaotic conditions, it is not possible to determine the specific cause of Anne's death. Witnesses later testified Margot fell from her bunk in her weakened state and was killed by the shock. Anne died a few days after Margot. The exact dates of Margot's and Anne's deaths were not recorded. It was long thought that their deaths occurred only a few weeks before British soldiers liberated the camp on 15 April 1945, but research in 2015 indicated that they may have died as early as February. Among other evidence, witnesses recalled that the Franks displayed typhus symptoms by 7 February, and Dutch health authorities reported that most untreated typhus victims died within 12 days of their first symptoms. After liberation, the camp was burned in an effort to prevent further spread of disease; the sisters were buried in a mass grave at an unknown location.\n\nAfter the war, it was estimated that only 5,000 of the 107,000 Jews deported from the Netherlands between 1942 and 1944 survived. An estimated 30,000 Jews remained in the Netherlands, with many people aided by the Dutch underground. Approximately two-thirds of this group survived the war.\n\nOtto Frank survived his internment in Auschwitz. After the war ended, he returned to Amsterdam, where he was sheltered by Jan and Miep Gies as he attempted to locate his family. He learned of the death of his wife, Edith, in Auschwitz, but remained hopeful that his daughters had survived. After several weeks, he discovered Margot and Anne had also died. He attempted to determine the fates of his daughters' friends and learned many had been murdered. Sanne Ledermann, often mentioned in Anne's diary, had been gassed along with her parents; her sister, Barbara, a close friend of Margot's, had survived. Several of the Frank sisters' school friends had survived, as had the extended families of Otto and Edith Frank, as they had fled Germany during the mid-1930s, with individual family members settling in Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.\n\nIn July 1945, after the Red Cross confirmed the deaths of the Frank sisters, Miep Gies gave Otto Frank the diary and a bundle of loose notes that she had saved in the hope of returning them to Anne. Otto Frank later commented that he had not realized Anne had kept such an accurate and well-written record of their time in hiding. In his memoir, he described the painful process of reading the diary, recognizing the events described and recalling that he had already heard some of the more amusing episodes read aloud by his daughter. He saw for the first time the more private side of his daughter and those sections of the diary she had not discussed with anyone, noting, \"For me it was a revelation ... I had no idea of the depth of her thoughts and feelings ... She had kept all these feelings to herself\". Moved by her repeated wish to be an author, he began to consider having it published.\n\nFrank's diary began as a private expression of her thoughts; she wrote several times that she would never allow anyone to read it. She candidly described her life, her family and companions, and their situation, while beginning to recognize her ambition to write fiction for publication. In March 1944, she heard a radio broadcast by Gerrit Bolkestein—a member of the Dutch government in exile, based in London—who said that when the war ended, he would create a public record of the Dutch people's oppression under German occupation. He mentioned the publication of letters and diaries, and Frank decided to submit her work when the time came. She began editing her writing, removing some sections and rewriting others, with a view to publication. Her original notebook was supplemented by additional notebooks and loose-leaf sheets of paper. She created pseudonyms for the members of the household and the helpers. The van Pels family became Hermann, Petronella, and Peter van Daan, and Fritz Pfeffer became Albert Düssell. In this edited version, she addressed each entry to \"Kitty,\" a fictional character in Cissy van Marxveldt's novels that Anne enjoyed reading. Otto Frank used her original diary, known as \"version A\", and her edited version, known as \"version B\", to produce the first version for publication. He removed certain passages, most notably those in which Anne is critical of her parents (especially her mother), and sections that discussed Frank's growing sexuality. Although he restored the true identities of his own family, he retained all of the other pseudonyms.\n\nOtto Frank gave the diary to the historian Annie Romein-Verschoor, who tried unsuccessfully to have it published. She then gave it to her husband Jan Romein, who wrote an article about it, titled (\"A Child's Voice\"), which was published in the newspaper on 3 April 1946. He wrote that the diary \"stammered out in a child's voice, embodies all the hideousness of fascism, more so than all the evidence at Nuremberg put together.\" His article attracted attention from publishers, and the diary was published in the Netherlands as (\"The Annex\") in 1947, followed by five more printings by 1950.\n\nIt was first published in Germany and France in 1950, and after being rejected by several publishers, was first published in the United Kingdom in 1952. The first American edition, published in 1952 under the title \"Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl\", was positively reviewed. The book was successful in France, Germany, and the United States, but in the United Kingdom it failed to attract an audience and by 1953 was out of print. Its most noteworthy success was in Japan, where it received critical acclaim and sold more than 100,000 copies in its first edition. In Japan, Anne Frank quickly was identified as an important cultural figure who represented the destruction of youth during the war.\n\nA play by Frances Goodrich and Albert Hackett based upon the diary premiered in New York City on 5 October 1955, and later won a Pulitzer Prize for Drama. It was followed by the 1959 movie \"The Diary of Anne Frank\", which was a critical and commercial success. Biographer Melissa Müller later wrote that the dramatization had \"contributed greatly to the romanticizing, sentimentalizing and universalizing of Anne's story.\" Over the years the popularity of the diary grew, and in many schools, particularly in the United States, it was included as part of the curriculum, introducing Anne Frank to new generations of readers.\n\nIn 1986 the Dutch Institute for War Documentation published the \"Critical Edition\" of the diary. It includes comparisons from all known versions, both edited and unedited. It includes discussion asserting the diary's authentication, as well as additional historical information relating to the family and the diary itself.\n\nCornelis Suijk—a former director of the Anne Frank Foundation and president of the U.S. Center for Holocaust Education Foundation—announced in 1999 that he was in the possession of five pages that had been removed by Otto Frank from the diary prior to publication; Suijk claimed that Otto Frank gave these pages to him shortly before his death in 1980. The missing diary entries contain critical remarks by Anne Frank about her parents' strained marriage and discuss Frank's lack of affection for her mother. Some controversy ensued when Suijk claimed publishing rights over the five pages; he intended to sell them to raise money for his foundation. The Netherlands Institute for War Documentation, the formal owner of the manuscript, demanded the pages be handed over. In 2000 the Dutch Ministry of Education, Culture and Science agreed to donate US$300,000 to Suijk's foundation, and the pages were returned in 2001. Since then, they have been included in new editions of the diary.\n\nThe diary has been praised for its literary merits. Commenting on Anne Frank's writing style, the dramatist Meyer Levin commended Frank for \"sustaining the tension of a well-constructed novel\", and was so impressed by the quality of her work that he collaborated with Otto Frank on a dramatization of the diary shortly after its publication. Levin became obsessed with Anne Frank, which he wrote about in his autobiography \"The Obsession\". The poet John Berryman called the book a unique depiction, not merely of adolescence but of the \"conversion of a child into a person as it is happening in a precise, confident, economical style stunning in its honesty\".\n\nIn her introduction to the diary's first American edition, Eleanor Roosevelt described it as \"one of the wisest and most moving commentaries on war and its impact on human beings that I have ever read.\" John F. Kennedy discussed Anne Frank in a 1961 speech, and said, \"Of all the multitudes who throughout history have spoken for human dignity in times of great suffering and loss, no voice is more compelling than that of Anne Frank.\" In the same year, the Soviet writer Ilya Ehrenburg wrote of her: \"one voice speaks for six million—the voice not of a sage or a poet but of an ordinary little girl.\"\n\nAs Anne Frank's stature as both a writer and humanist has grown, she has been discussed specifically as a symbol of the Holocaust and more broadly as a representative of persecution. Hillary Clinton, in her acceptance speech for an Elie Wiesel Humanitarian Award in 1994, read from Anne Frank's diary and spoke of her \"awakening us to the folly of indifference and the terrible toll it takes on our young,\" which Clinton related to contemporary events in Sarajevo, Somalia and Rwanda. After receiving a humanitarian award from the Anne Frank Foundation in 1994, Nelson Mandela addressed a crowd in Johannesburg, saying he had read Anne Frank's diary while in prison and \"derived much encouragement from it.\" He likened her struggle against Nazism to his struggle against apartheid, drawing a parallel between the two philosophies: \"Because these beliefs are patently false, and because they were, and will always be, challenged by the likes of Anne Frank, they are bound to fail.\" Also in 1994, Václav Havel said \"Anne Frank's legacy is very much alive and it can address us fully\" in relation to the political and social changes occurring at the time in former Eastern Bloc countries.\n\nPrimo Levi suggested Anne Frank is frequently identified as a single representative of the millions of people who suffered and died as she did because \"One single Anne Frank moves us more than the countless others who suffered just as she did but whose faces have remained in the shadows. Perhaps it is better that way; if we were capable of taking in all the suffering of all those people, we would not be able to live.\" In her closing message in Müller's biography of Anne Frank, Miep Gies expressed a similar thought, though she attempted to dispel what she felt was a growing misconception that \"Anne symbolises the six million victims of the Holocaust\", writing: \"Anne's life and death were her own individual fate, an individual fate that happened six million times over. Anne cannot, and should not, stand for the many individuals whom the Nazis robbed of their lives ... But her fate helps us grasp the immense loss the world suffered because of the Holocaust.\"\n\nOtto Frank spent the remainder of his life as custodian of his daughter's legacy, saying, \"It's a strange role. In the normal family relationship, it is the child of the famous parent who has the honour and the burden of continuing the task. In my case the role is reversed.\" He recalled his publisher's explaining why he thought the diary has been so widely read, with the comment, \"he said that the diary encompasses so many areas of life that each reader can find something that moves him personally\". Simon Wiesenthal expressed a similar sentiment when he said that the diary had raised more widespread awareness of the Holocaust than had been achieved during the Nuremberg Trials, because \"people identified with this child. This was the impact of the Holocaust, this was a family like my family, like your family and so you could understand this.\"\n\nIn June 1999, \"Time\" magazine published a special edition titled \"\". Anne Frank was selected as one of the \"Heroes & Icons\", and the writer, Roger Rosenblatt, described her legacy with the comment, \"The passions the book ignites suggest that everyone owns Anne Frank, that she has risen above the Holocaust, Judaism, girlhood and even goodness and become a totemic figure of the modern world—the moral individual mind beset by the machinery of destruction, insisting on the right to live and question and hope for the future of human beings.\" He notes that while her courage and pragmatism are admired, her ability to analyse herself and the quality of her writing are the key components of her appeal. He writes, \"The reason for her immortality was basically literary. She was an extraordinarily good writer, for any age, and the quality of her work seemed a direct result of a ruthlessly honest disposition.\"\n\nAfter the diary became widely known in the late 1950s, various allegations against the veracity of the diary and/or its contents appeared, with the earliest published criticisms occurring in Sweden and Norway.\n\nIn 1957, \"\" (\"Free Words\"), the magazine of the Swedish neofascist organization National League of Sweden published an article by Danish author and critic Harald Nielsen, who had previously written antisemitic articles about the Danish-Jewish author Georg Brandes. Among other things, the article claimed that the diary had been written by Meyer Levin.\n\nIn 1958, at a performance of \"The Diary of Anne Frank\" in Vienna, Simon Wiesenthal was challenged by a group of protesters who asserted that Anne Frank had never existed, and who challenged Wiesenthal to prove her existence by finding the man who had arrested her. Wiesenthal indeed began searching for Karl Silberbauer and found him in 1963. When interviewed, Silberbauer admitted his role, and identified Anne Frank from a photograph as one of the people arrested. Silberbauer provided a full account of events, even recalling emptying a briefcase full of papers onto the floor. His statement corroborated the version of events that had previously been presented by witnesses such as Otto Frank.\n\nIn 1959, Otto Frank took legal action in Lübeck against Lothar Stielau, a school teacher and former Hitler Youth member who published a school paper that described the diary as \"a forgery\". The complaint was extended to include Heinrich Buddegerg, who wrote a letter in support of Stielau, which was published in a Lübeck newspaper. The court examined the diary in 1960 and authenticated the handwriting as matching that in letters known to have been written by Anne Frank. They declared the diary to be genuine. Stielau recanted his earlier statement, and Otto Frank did not pursue the case any further.\n\nIn 1976, Otto Frank took action against Heinz Roth of Frankfurt, who published pamphlets stating that the diary was \"a forgery\". The judge ruled that if Roth was to publish any further statements he would be subjected to a fine of 500,000 German marks and a six-month jail sentence. Roth appealed against the court's decision. He died in 1978, and after a year his appeal was rejected.\n\nOtto Frank mounted a lawsuit in 1976 against Ernst Römer, who distributed a pamphlet titled \"The Diary of Anne Frank, Bestseller, A Lie\". When a man named Edgar Geiss distributed the same pamphlet in the courtroom, he too was prosecuted. Römer was fined 1,500 Deutschmarks, and Geiss was sentenced to six months' imprisonment. The sentence of Geiss was reduced on appeal, and the case was eventually dropped following a subsequent appeal because the time limit for filing a libel case had expired.\n\nWith Otto Frank's death in 1980, the original diary, including letters and loose sheets, was willed to the Dutch Institute for War Documentation, which commissioned a forensic study of the diary through the Netherlands Ministry of Justice in 1986. They examined the handwriting against known examples and found that they matched. They determined that the paper, glue, and ink were readily available during the time the diary was said to have been written. They concluded that the diary is authentic, and their findings were published in what has become known as the \"Critical Edition\" of the diary. In 1990, the Hamburg Regional Court confirmed the diary's authenticity.\n\nIn 1991, Holocaust deniers Robert Faurisson and Siegfried Verbeke produced a booklet titled \"The Diary of Anne Frank: A Critical Approach\", in which they revived the allegation that Otto Frank wrote the diary. Purported evidence, as before, included several contradictions in the diary, that the prose style and handwriting were not those of a teenager, and that hiding in the \"Achterhuis\" would have been impossible. In 1993, the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam and the Anne Frank Fonds in Basel filed a civil lawsuit to prohibit further distribution of Faurisson and Verbeke's booklet in the Netherlands. In 1998, the Amsterdam District Court ruled in favour of the claimants, forbade any further denial of the authenticity of the diary and unsolicited distribution of publications to that effect, and imposed a penalty of 25,000 guilders per infringement.\n\nAn unabridged edition of Anne Frank's work was published in 1995. This version included Anne's description of her exploration of her own genitalia and her puzzlement regarding sex and childbirth, a passage that had previously been edited out by Otto Frank.\n\nOn 3 May 1957, a group of citizens, including Otto Frank, established the Anne Frank Stichting in an effort to rescue the Prinsengracht building from demolition and to make it accessible to the public. The Anne Frank House opened on 3 May 1960. It consists of the Opekta warehouse and offices and the \"\", all unfurnished so that visitors can walk freely through the rooms. Some personal relics of the former occupants remain, such as movie star photographs glued by Anne to a wall, a section of wallpaper on which Otto Frank marked the height of his growing daughters, and a map on the wall where he recorded the advance of the Allied Forces, all now protected behind acrylic glass. From the small room which was once home to Peter van Pels, a walkway connects the building to its neighbours, also purchased by the Foundation. These other buildings are used to house the diary, as well as rotating exhibits that chronicle aspects of the Holocaust and more contemporary examinations of racial intolerance around the world. One of Amsterdam's main tourist attractions, it received a record 965,000 visitors in 2005. The House provides information via the internet and offers exhibitions that in 2005 travelled to 32 countries in Europe, Asia, North America, and South America.\n\nIn 1963, Otto Frank and his second wife, Elfriede Geiringer-Markovits, set up the Anne Frank Fonds as a charitable foundation, based in Basel, Switzerland. The Fonds raises money to donate to causes \"as it sees fit\". Upon his death, Otto willed the diary's copyright to the Fonds, on the provision that the first 80,000 Swiss francs in income each year was to be distributed to his heirs. Any income above this figure is to be retained by the Fonds for use on whatever projects its administrators considered worthy. It provides funding for the medical treatment of the Righteous Among the Nations on a yearly basis. The Fonds aims to educate young people against racism, and loaned some of Anne Frank's papers to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington for an exhibition in 2003. Its annual report that year outlined its efforts to contribute on a global level, with support for projects in Germany, Israel, India, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.\n\nIn 1997, the Anne Frank Educational Centre (\"\") was opened in the Dornbusch neighbourhood of Frankfurt, where Frank lived with her family until 1934. The Centre is \"a place where both young people and adults can learn about the history of National Socialism and discuss its relevance to today.\"\n\nThe Merwedeplein apartment, where the Frank family lived from 1933 until 1942, remained privately owned until the 2000s. After becoming the focus of a television documentary, the building—in a serious state of disrepair—was purchased by a Dutch housing corporation. Aided by photographs taken by the Frank family and descriptions in letters written by Anne Frank, it was restored to its 1930s appearance. Teresien da Silva of the Anne Frank House and Frank's cousin, Bernhard \"Buddy\" Elias, contributed to the restoration project. It opened in 2005. Each year, a writer who is unable to write freely in his or her own country is selected for a year-long tenancy, during which they reside and write in the apartment. The first writer selected was the Algerian novelist and poet El-Mahdi Acherchour.\n\nAnne Frank is included as one of the topics in the Canon of Dutch History, which was prepared by a committee headed by Frits van Oostrom and presented to the Minister of Education, Culture and Science, Maria van der Hoeven, in 2006; the Canon is a list of fifty topics that aims to provide a chronological summary of Dutch history to be taught in primary schools and the first two years of secondary school in the Netherlands. A revised version, which still includes her as one of the topics, was presented to the Dutch government on 3 October 2007.\n\nIn June 2007, \"Buddy\" Elias donated some 25,000 family documents to the Anne Frank House. Among the artefacts are Frank family photographs taken in Germany and the Netherlands and the letter Otto Frank sent his mother in 1945, informing her that his wife and daughters had perished in Nazi concentration camps.\n\nIn November 2007, the Anne Frank tree—by then infected with a fungal disease affecting the tree trunk—was scheduled to be cut down to prevent it from falling on the surrounding buildings. Dutch economist Arnold Heertje said about the tree: \"This is not just any tree. The Anne Frank tree is bound up with the persecution of the Jews.\" The Tree Foundation, a group of tree conservationists, started a civil case to stop the felling of the horse chestnut, which received international media attention. A Dutch court ordered city officials and conservationists to explore alternatives and come to a solution. The parties built a steel construction that was expected to prolong the life of the tree up to 15 years. However, it was only three years later, on 23 August 2010, that gale-force winds blew down the tree. Eleven saplings from the tree were distributed to museums, schools, parks and Holocaust remembrance centres through a project led by the Anne Frank Center USA. The first sapling was planted in April 2013 at The Children's Museum of Indianapolis. Saplings were also sent to a school in Little Rock, Arkansas, the scene of a desegregation battle; Liberty Park (Manhattan), which honours victims of the September 11 attacks; and other sites in the United States. Another horse chestnut tree honoring Frank was planted in 2010 at Kelly Ingram Park in Birmingham, Alabama.\n\nOver the years, several films about Anne Frank appeared. Her life and writings have inspired a diverse group of artists and social commentators to make reference to her in literature, popular music, television, and other media. These include \"The Anne Frank Ballet\" by Adam Darius, first performed in 1959, and the choral work \"Annelies\", first performed in 2005. The only known footage of the real Anne Frank comes from a 1941 silent film recorded for her newlywed next-door neighbour. She is seen leaning out of a second-floor window in an attempt to better view the bride and groom. The couple, who survived the war, gave the film to the Anne Frank House.\n\nIn 1999, \"Time\" named Anne Frank among the heroes and icons of the 20th century on their list \"The Most Important People of the Century\", stating: \"With a diary kept in a secret attic, she braved the Nazis and lent a searing voice to the fight for human dignity\". Philip Roth called her the \"lost little daughter\" of Franz Kafka. Madame Tussauds wax museum unveiled an exhibit featuring a likeness of Anne Frank in 2012. Asteroid 5535 Annefrank was named in her honour in 1995, after having been discovered in 1942.\n\n\nExplanatory notes\n\nCitations\n\n\nOnline\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39054410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39054410", "title": "Birgitta Hoffmann", "text": "Birgitta Hoffmann\n\nBirgitta Hoffmann (born 18 May 1969) is an archaeologist, teacher, and scholar of the Roman installations on the Gask Ridge and Roman Scotland north of the Antonine Wall, the Roman Army and the study of glass in antiquity.\n\nHoffmann studied at the University of Durham under Brian Dobson before studying at the University of Freiburg for her Ph.D. She was a lecturer at University College Dublin and an honorary research associate at the University of Liverpool, as well as working at Queen's College Canada and the Virginia Military Institute She was the editor and regular speaker of the Hadrianic Society and 2012-2014 the co-ordinator of the Roman Army School. Since 1995, she is the co-director of the Roman Gask Project. Since 2008, she is the course director of the Manchester Continuing Education Network.\n\nHer research covers the Roman military, especially the Roman frontiers and ancient glass and beads of the first millennium AD.\n\nIn 2016 Birgitta was the Liberal Democrat candidate for the Wilmslow East Ward local council elections.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57750507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57750507", "title": "Charles Terlinden", "text": "Charles Terlinden\n\nCharles Terlinden (1878—1972) was a Belgian historian, professor at the Catholic University of Louvain, and papal chamberlain.\n\nTerlinden was born in Schaerbeek on 6 July 1878. He studied at the Institut Saint-Louis, and at the Faculty of Law of Leuven University. After completing a doctorate in law, he began historical studies under Alfred Cauchie, with a thesis on Pope Clement IX and the War of Candia (1904). He followed this in 1906 with a second thesis on William I of the Netherlands and the Catholic Church in Belgium, making him a triple doctor.\n\nHe was called up in 1914 and saw action at Melle. After the war he was a historical adviser to the Belgian delegation to the Paris Peace Conference, and in the aftermath was vocally critical of the way that Austria-Hungary had been dismembered.\n\nFrom 1918 until his death he was Professor of Modern and Contemporary History at the Catholic University of Louvain (emeritus from 1948). During the Second World War he wrote a number of popularising works about strong women in Belgian history. From 1955 until his death he was president of the Belgian Historical Institute in Rome. He died in Brussels on 23 January 1972. Obituaries were published in the \"Revue belge de philologie et d'histoire\" (50, 1972, pp. 1061-1069), \"Revue belge d'histoire militaire\" (19, 1972, pp. 361-362), \"Bulletin de l'Institut historique belge de Rome\" (43, 1973, pp. V-XI), and \"Bulletin de la Commission royale d'Histoire\" (150, 1984, pp. 75-78).\n\n"}
{"id": "41113407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41113407", "title": "Chiayi Municipal Museum", "text": "Chiayi Municipal Museum\n\nThe Chiayi Municipal Museum () is a museum in East District, Chiayi City, Taiwan.\n\nThe founding of the museum was a collective community effort in the hope to establish a cultural public space for all of the residents of Chiayi City. Among its displays are silk wrappings used to cover Tibetan Buddhist texts and an Islamic jade collection of the Qing emperors.\n\nThe museum has the following galleries:\n\n\nThe museum offers courses and workshops in calligraphy, brush ink painting, paper mache, illustration, ikebana with a Taiwanese touch etc.\n\nThe museum is accessible within walking distance west from Beimen Station of the Alishan Forest Railway.\n\n"}
{"id": "4237048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4237048", "title": "Chinese ceramics", "text": "Chinese ceramics\n\nChinese ceramics show a continuous development since pre-dynastic times and are one of the most significant forms of Chinese art and ceramics globally. The first pottery was made during the Palaeolithic era. Chinese ceramics range from construction materials such as bricks and tiles, to hand-built pottery vessels fired in bonfires or kilns, to the sophisticated Chinese porcelain wares made for the imperial court and for export. Porcelain is so identified with China that it is still called \"china\" in everyday English usage.\n\nMost later Chinese ceramics, even of the finest quality, were made on an industrial scale, thus few names of individual potters were recorded. Many of the most important kiln workshops were owned by or reserved for the Emperor, and large quantities of ceramics were exported as diplomatic gifts or for trade from an early date, initially to East Asia and the Islamic world, and then from around the 16th century to Europe. Chinese ceramics have had an enormous influence on other ceramic traditions in these areas.\n\nIncreasingly over their long history, Chinese ceramics can be classified between those made for the imperial court, either to use or distribute, those made for a discriminating Chinese market, and those for popular Chinese markets or for export. Some types of wares were also made only or mainly for special uses such as burial in tombs, or for use on altars.\n\nThe earliest Chinese pottery was earthenware, which continued in production for utilitarian uses throughout Chinese history, but was increasingly less used for fine wares. Stoneware, fired at higher temperatures, and naturally impervious to water, was developed very early and continued to be used for fine pottery in many areas at most periods; the tea bowls in Jian ware and Jizhou ware made during the Song dynasty are examples.\n\nPorcelain, on a Western definition, is \"a collective term comprising all ceramic ware that is white and translucent, no matter what ingredients are used to make it or to what use it is put\". The Chinese tradition recognizes two primary categories of ceramics, high-fired [cí 瓷] and low-fired [táo 陶], so doing without stoneware, which in Chinese tradition is mostly grouped with (and translated as) porcelain. Terms such as \"porcellaneous\" or \"near-porcelain\" may be used for stonewares with porcelain-like characteristics. The \"Erya\" defined porcelain [cí 瓷] as \"fine, compact pottery\" [táo 陶].\n\nChinese pottery can also classified as being either \"northern\" or \"southern\". China comprises two separate and geologically different land masses, brought together by the action of continental drift and forming a junction that lies between the Yellow and Yangtze rivers, sometimes known as the Nanshan-Qinling divide. The contrasting geology of the north and south led to differences in the raw materials available for making ceramics; in particular the north lacks petunse or \"porcelain stone\", needed for porcelain on the strict definition. Ware-types can be from very widespread kiln-sites in either north or south China, but the two can nearly always be distinguished, and influences across this divide may affect shape and decoration, but will be based on very different clay bodies, with fundamental effects. The kiln types were also different, and in the north the fuel was usually coal, as opposed to wood in the south, which often affects the wares. Southern materials have high silica, low alumina and high potassium oxide, the reverse of northern materials in each case. The northern materials are often very suitable for stoneware, while in the south there are also areas highly suitable for porcelain.\n\nChinese porcelain is mainly made by a combination of the following materials:\n\nIn the context of Chinese ceramics, the term \"porcelain\" lacks a universally accepted definition (see above). This in turn has led to confusion about when the first Chinese porcelain was made. Claims have been made for the late Eastern Han dynasty (100–200 AD), the Three Kingdoms period (220–280 AD), the Six Dynasties period (220–589 AD), and the Tang dynasty (618–906 AD).\n\nKiln technology has always been a key factor in the development of Chinese pottery. The Chinese developed effective kilns capable of firing at around 1,000 °C before 2000 BC. These were updraft kilns, often built below ground. Two main types of kiln were developed by about 200 AD and remained in use until modern times. These are the dragon kiln of hilly southern China, usually fuelled by wood, long and thin and running up a slope, and the horseshoe-shaped mantou kiln of the north Chinese plains, smaller and more compact. Both could reliably produce the temperatures of up to 1300 °C or more needed for porcelain. In the late Ming, the egg-shaped kiln or \"zhenyao\" was developed at Jingdezhen, but mainly used there. This was something of a compromise between the other types, and offered locations in the firing chamber with a range of firing conditions.\n\nImportant specific types of pottery, many coming from more than one period, are dealt with individually in sections lower down.\n\nPottery dating from 20,000 years ago was found at the Xianrendong Cave site, in Jiangxi province, making it among the earliest pottery yet found. Another reported find is from 17,000–18,000 years ago in the Yuchanyan Cave in southern China.\n\nBy the Middle and Late Neolithic (about 5000 to 1500 BCE) most of the larger archaeological cultures in China were settled farmers, who produced a variety of attractive and often large vessels, often boldly painted, or decorated by cutting or impressing. Decoration is abstract or stylized animals – fish are a speciality at the river settlement of Banpo. The distinctive Majiayao painted pottery, with orange bodies and black paint, is characterised by fine paste textures, thin walls, and polished surfaces; the almost complete lack of defects in excavated pots suggests a high level of quality control during production. The Majiayao and other phases of the Yangshao culture are well-represented in Western museums; by the Banshan phase purple was used in slip-painting alongside black. During the 4th millennium the potter's wheel seems to scholars of Chinese ceramics to have been a Chinese invention, though several regions to the West also claim the honour. Previously coil-forming was used for large vessels.\n\nFinds of vessels are mostly in burials, and sometimes hold the remains. By 4100–2600 BCE in the Dawenkou culture shapes later familiar from Chinese ritual bronzes begin to appear. One exceptional ritual site, Niuheliang in the far north, has produced numerous human figurines, some about half life-size.\n\nSome experts believe the first porcelain was made in Zhejiang province during the Eastern Han dynasty. Shards recovered from archaeological Eastern Han kiln sites estimated firing temperature ranged from . As far back as 1000 BC, the so-called \"porcelaneous wares\" or \"proto-porcelain wares\" were made using at least some kaolin fired at high temperatures. The dividing line between the two and \"true porcelain wares\" is not a clear one. Archaeological finds have pushed the dates to as early as the Han dynasty (206 BC – 220 AD).\n\nThe late Han years saw the early development of the peculiar art form of \"hunping\", or \"soul jar\": a funerary jar whose top was decorated by a sculptural composition. This type vessels became widespread during the following Jin dynasty (265–420) and the Six Dynasties.\n\nThe tomb figures that were to recur in the Tang were popular across society, but with more emphasis than later on model houses and farm animals. Green-glazed pottery, using lead-glazed earthenware in part of the later \"sancai\" formula, was used for some of these, though not for wares for use, as the raw lead made the glaze poisonous.\n\nDuring the Sui and Tang dynasties (581 to 907 AD), a wide range of ceramics, low-fired and high-fired, were produced. These included the last significant fine earthenwares to be produced in China, mostly lead-glazed \"sancai\" (three-colour) wares. Many of the well-known lively Tang dynasty tomb figures, which were only made to be placed in elite tombs close to the capital in the north, are in \"sancai\", while others are unpainted or were painted over a slip; the paint has now often fallen off. The \"sancai\" vessels too may have been mainly for tombs, which is where they are all found; the glaze was less toxic than in the Han, but perhaps still to be avoided for use at the dining table.\n\nIn the south the wares from the Changsha Tongguan Kiln Site in Tongguan are significant as the first regular use of underglaze painting; examples have been found in many places in the Islamic world. However the production tailed off and underglaze painting remained a minor technique for several centuries.\n\nYue ware was the leading high-fired, lime-glazed celadon of the period, and was of very sophisticated design, patronized by the court. This was also the case with the northern porcelains of kilns in the provinces of Henan and Hebei, which for the first time met the Western as well as the Eastern definition of porcelain, being a pure white and translucent. One of the first mentions of porcelain by a foreigner was in the \"Chain of Chronicles\" written by the Arab traveler and merchant Suleiman in 851 AD during the Tang dynasty who recorded that: \nThe Arabs were well used to glass, and he was certain that the porcelain that he saw was not that.\n\nThe pottery of the Song dynasty has retained emormous prestige in Chinese tradition, especially that of what later became known as the \"Five Great Kilns\". The artistic emphasis of Song pottery was on subtle glaze effects and graceful shapes; decoration was mostly in shallow relief. \"What is clear is that in the Song Dynasty which tended to uphold the esthetics of conventional Confucianism, underglaze blue was not at all popular; Confucian esthetics emphasized simplicity, and the underglaze blue designs were judged to be too ornamental.\"\n\nGreen ware or celadons were popular, both in China and in export markets, which became increasingly important during the period. Yue ware was succeeded by Northern Celadon and then in the south Longquan celadon. White and black wares were also important, especially in Cizhou ware, and there were polychrome types, but the finer types of ceramics, for the court and the literati, remained monochrome, relying on glaze effects and shape. A wide variety of styles evolved in various areas, and those that were successful were imitated in other areas. Important kiln sites and stoneware styles included Ru, Jun, Southern Song Guan or official ware, Jian and Jizhou. Whitish porcelain continued to be improved, and included the continuation of Ding ware and the arrival of the \"qingbai\" which would replace it.\n\nThe Liao, Xia and Jin were founded by non-literate, often nomadic people who conquered parts of China. Pottery production continued under their rule, but their own artistic traditions merged to some extent with the Chinese, producing characteristic new styles.\n\nThe pottery of all these regions was mainly high-fired, with some earthenware produced because of its lower cost and more colourful glazes. Some of the clay used was what is called kaolinite in the West. In some cases stoneware was preferred for its darker colour or better working qualities. Potteries used the local clay, and when that was dark or coarse and they wanted a fine white body, they covered the clay with white slip before applying glaze.\n\nThe Mongol Yuan dynasty enforced the movement of artists of all sorts around the Mongol Empire, which in ceramics brought a major stylistic and technical influence from the Islamic world in the form of blue and white porcelain, with underglaze painting in cobalt. This has been described as the \"last great innovation in ceramic technology\". Decoration by underglaze painted patterns had long been a feature of Chinese pottery, especially in the popular Cizhou ware (mostly using black over slip), but was perhaps regarded as rather vulgar by the court and the literati class, and the finest ceramics were monochrome, using an understated aesthetic with perfect shapes and subtle glaze effects, often over shallow decoration carved or moulded into the surface.\n\nThis was a great contrast to the bright colours and complicated designs developed under the Yuan, whose organization was mostly based on Islamic art, especially metalwork, although the animal and vegetable motifs remained based on Chinese tradition. These were initially mainly made for export, but became acceptable at court, and to buyers of fine ceramics internally. Export markets readily accepted the style, which has continued to be produced ever since, both in China and around the world.\n\nBecause of this, improvements in water transportation and the re-unification under Mongol rule, pottery production started to concentrate near deposits of kaolin, such as Jingdezhen, which gradually became the pre-eminent centre for producing porcelain in a variety of styles, a position it has held ever since. The scale of production greatly increased, and the scale and organization of the kilns became industrialized, with ownership by commercial syndicates, much division of labour, and other typical features of mass production. Some other types of pottery, especially Longquan celadon and Cizhou ware, continued to flourish.\n\nThe Ming dynasty saw an extraordinary period of innovation in ceramic manufacture. Kilns investigated new techniques in design and shapes, showing a predilection for colour and painted design, and an openness to foreign forms. The Yongle Emperor (1402–24) was especially curious about other countries (as evidenced by his support of the eunuch Zheng He's extended exploration of the Indian Ocean), and enjoyed unusual shapes, many inspired by Islamic metalwork. During the Xuande period (1426–35), a technical refinement was introduced in the preparation of the cobalt used for underglaze blue decoration.\n\nPrior to this the cobalt had been brilliant in colour, but with a tendency to bleed in firing; by adding manganese the colour was duller, but the line crisper. Xuande porcelain is now considered among the finest of all Ming output. Enamelled decoration (\"such as the one at left\") was perfected under the Chenghua Emperor (1464–87), and greatly prized by later collectors. Indeed, by the late 16th century, Chenghua and Xuande era works – especially wine cups – had grown so much in popularity, that their prices nearly matched genuine antique wares of the Song dynasty or even older. This esteem for relatively recent ceramics excited much scorn on the part of literati scholars (such as Wen Zhenheng, Tu Long, and Gao Lian, who is cited below); these men fancied themselves arbiters of taste and found the painted aesthetic 'vulgar.'\n\nIn addition to these decorative innovations, the late Ming dynasty underwent a dramatic shift towards a market economy, exporting porcelain around the world on an unprecedented scale. Thus aside from supplying porcelain for domestic use, the kilns at Jingdezhen became the main production centre for large-scale porcelain exports to Europe starting with the reign of the Wanli Emperor (1572–1620). By this time, kaolin and pottery stone were mixed in about equal proportions. Kaolin produced wares of great strength when added to the paste; it also enhanced the whiteness of the body—a trait that became a much sought after property, especially when form blue-and-white wares grew in popularity. Pottery stone could be fired at a lower temperature () than paste mixed with kaolin, which required . These sorts of variations were important to keep in mind because the large southern egg-shaped kiln varied greatly in temperature. Near the firebox it was hottest; near the chimney, at the opposite end of the kiln, it was cooler.\n\nPrimary source material on Qing dynasty porcelain is available from both foreign residents and domestic authors. Two letters written by Père François Xavier d'Entrecolles, a Jesuit missionary and industrial spy who lived and worked in Jingdezhen in the early 18th century, described in detail manufacturing of porcelain in the city. In his first letter dated 1712, d'Entrecolles described the way in which pottery stones were crushed, refined and formed into little white bricks, known in Chinese as \"petuntse\". He then went on to describe the refining of china clay \"kaolin\" along with the developmental stages of glazing and firing. He explained his motives: \n\nIn 1743, during the reign of the Qianlong Emperor, Tang Ying, the imperial supervisor in the city produced a memoir entitled \"Twenty illustrations of the manufacture of porcelain\". The original illustrations have been lost, but the text of the memoir is still accessible.\n\n\"Sancai\" means \"three-colours\", green, yellow and a creamy white, all in lead-based glazes. In fact some other colours could be used, including cobalt blue. In the West, Tang sancai wares were sometimes referred to as \"egg-and-spinach\".\n\nSancai wares were northern wares made using white and buff-firing secondary kaolins and fire clays. At kiln sites located at Tongchuan, Neiqiu County in Hebei and Gongyi in Henan, the clays used for burial wares were similar to those used by Tang potters. The burial wares were fired at a lower temperature than contemporaneous whitewares. Tang dynasty tomb figures, such as the well-known representations of camels and horses, were cast in sections, in moulds with the parts luted together using clay slip. They were either painted in \"sancai\" or merely coated in white slip, often with paint added over the glaze, which has now mostly been lost. In some cases, a degree of individuality was imparted to the assembled figurines by hand-carving.\n\nThe major group of celadon wares is named for its glaze, which uses iron oxide to give a broad spectrum of colours centred on a jade or olive green, but covering browns, cream and light blues. This is a similar range to that of jade, always the most prestigious material in Chinese art, and the broad resemblance accounts for much of the attractiveness of celadon to the Chinese. Celadons are plain or decorated in relief, which may be carved, inscribed or moulded. Sometimes taken by the imperial court, celadons had a more regular market with the scholarly and middle classes, and were also exported in enormous quantities. Important types are: Yue ware, Yaozhou ware and the wider Northern Celadons, Ru ware, Guan ware, and finally Longquan celadon.\n\nJian Zhan blackwares, mainly comprising tea wares, were made at kilns located in Jianyang, Fujian province. They reached the peak of their popularity during the Song dynasty. The wares were made using locally won, iron-rich clays and fired in an oxidising atmosphere at temperatures in the region of . The glaze was made using clay similar to that used for forming the body, except fluxed with wood-ash. At high temperatures the molten glaze separate to produce a pattern called \"hare's fur\". When Jian wares were set tilted for firing, drips run down the side, creating evidence of liquid glaze pooling.\n\nJian tea wares of the Song dynasty were also greatly appreciated and copied in Japan, where they were known as \"tenmoku\" wares.\n\nRenewed interest in the history and cultural heritage in China has revived starting in the 1990s. The Ji Yu Fang Lao Long kiln outside of Wuyishan, Fujian in the village of Shui Ji under Master Xiong has been able to restart production of \"Jian Zhan\" using original clay. Kilns in Dehua County are also attempting in recreating it.\n\nAround the same time Jizhou ware developed with it \"tortoiseshell\" glaze effect.\n\nDing (Wade–Giles: \"Ting\") ware was produced in Ding County, Hebei Province. Already in production when the Song emperors came to power in 940, \"Ding\" ware was the finest porcelain produced in northern China at the time, and was the first to enter the palace for official imperial use. Its paste is white, generally covered with an almost transparent glaze that dripped and collected in \"tears\", (though some \"Ding\" ware was glazed a monochrome black or brown, white was the much more common type). Overall, the \"Ding\" aesthetic relied more on its elegant shape than ostentatious decoration; designs were understated, either incised or stamped into the clay prior to glazing. Due to the way the dishes were stacked in the kiln, the edged remained unglazed, and had to be rimmed in metal such as gold or silver when used as tableware. Some hundred years later, a Southern Song dynasty writer commented that it was this defect that led to its demise as favoured imperial ware. Since the Song government lost access to these northern kilns when they fled south, it has been argued that Qingbai ware (\"see below\") was viewed as a replacement for \"Ding\".\n\nAlthough not as highly ranked as \"Ru\" ware, the late Ming dynasty connoisseur Gao Lian awards Ding ware a brief mention in his volume \"Eight Discourses on the Art of Living\". Classified under his sixth discourse, the section on \"pure enjoyment of cultured idleness\", Master Gao says:\n\nLike Ding ware, Ru ware (Wade–Giles : ju) was produced in North China for imperial use. The Ru kilns were near the Northern Song capital at Kaifeng. In similar fashion to Longquan celadons, Ru pieces have small amounts of iron oxide in their glaze that oxidize and turn greenish when fired in a reducing atmosphere. Ru wares range in colour—from nearly white to a deep robin's egg—and often are covered with reddish-brown crackles. The crackles, or \"crazing\", are caused when the glaze cools and contracts faster than the body, thus having to stretch and ultimately to split, (\"as seen in the detail at right; see also\" ). The art historian James Watt comments that the Song dynasty was the first period that viewed crazing as a merit rather than a defect. Moreover, as time went on, the bodies got thinner and thinner, while glazes got thicker, until by the end of the Southern Song the 'green-glaze' was thicker than the body, making it extremely 'fleshy' rather than 'bony,' to use the traditional analogy (\"see section on\" Guan \"ware, below\"). Too, the glaze tends to drip and pool slightly, leaving it thinner at the top, where the clay peeps through.\n\nAs with Ding ware, the Song imperial court lost access to the Ru kilns after it fled Kaifeng when the Jurchen-led Jin dynasty conquered northern China, and settled at Lin'an (present-day Hangzhou) in the south. There, the Emperor Gaozong founded the \"Guan yao\" ('official kilns') right outside the new capital in order to produce imitations of Ru ware. However, posterity has remembered Ru ware as something unmatched by later attempts; Master Gao says, \"Compared with Guan yao, the above were of finer substance and more brilliant luster.\"\n\nJun (Wade–Giles : chün) ware was a third style of porcelain used at the Northern Song court. Characterized by a thicker body than Ding or Ru ware, Jun is covered with a turquoise and purple glaze, so thick and viscous looking that it almost seems to be melting off its substantial golden-brown body. Not only are Jun vessels more thickly potted, their shape is much more robust than the fine Jun pieces, yet both types were appreciated at the court of Emperor Huizong. Jun production was centered at Jun-tai in Yuzhou, Henan Province.\n\nGuan (Wade–Giles : kuan) ware, literally means \"official\" ware; so certain Ru, Jun, and even Ding are \"Guan\" in the broad sense of being produced for the court. Usually the term in English only applies to that produced by an official, imperially run kiln, which did not start until the Southern Song dynasty fled from the advancing Jin dynasty and settled at Lin'an. It was during this period that walls become so thin and glaze so thick that the latter superseded the former in breadth. As the clay in the foothills around Lin'an, was a brownish colour, and the glaze so viscous.\n\nGe (Wade–Giles : ko), literally means 'big-brother' ware, because legend has it that of two brothers working in Longquan, one made the typical celadon style ceramics, but the elder made \"ge\" ware, produced in his private kiln. Ming dynasty commentator Gao Lian claims that the \"ge\" kiln took its clay from the same site as \"Guan\" ware, which is what accounts for the difficulty in distinguishing one from the other (though Gao thinks \"\"Ge\" is distinctly inferior\" to Guan). Overall, Ge remains somewhat elusive, but basically comprises two types—one with a 'warm rice-yellow glaze and two sets of crackles, a more prominent set of darker colour interspersed with a finer set of reddish lines' (called \"chin-ssu t'ieh-hsien\" or 'golden floss and iron threads', which can just faintly be detected on this bowl). The other Ge ware is much like Guan ware, with grayish glaze and one set of crackles. Once thought to have only been manufactured alongside Longquan celadon, per its legendary founding, Ge is now believed to have also been produced at Jingdezhen.\n\nWhile similar to Guan ware, Ge typically has a grayish-blue glaze that is fully opaque with an almost matte finish. Its crackle pattern is exaggerated, often standing out in bold black. Though still shrouded in mystery, many specialists believe that Ge ware did not develop until the very late Southern Song dynasty or even the Yuan dynasty. In any case, enthusiasm for it persisted throughout the Ming dynasty; Wen Zhenheng preferred it to all other types of porcelain, in particular for brush washers and water droppers (although he preferred jade brush washers to porcelain, Guan and Ge were the best ceramic ones, especially if they have scalloped rims). Differences between later Ming imitations of Song/Yuan Ge include: Ming versions substitute a white porcelain body; they tend to be produced in a range of new shapes, for example those for the scholar's studio; glazes tend to be thinner and more lustrous; and slip is applied to the rim and base to simulate the \"brown mouth and iron foot\" of Guan ware.\n\nQingbai wares (also called 'yingqing') were made at Jingdezhen and at many other southern kilns from the time of the Northern Song dynasty until they were eclipsed in the 14th century by underglaze-decorated blue and white wares. Qingbai in Chinese literally means \"clear blue-white\". The qingbai glaze is a \"porcelain glaze\", so-called because it was made using pottery stone. The qingbai glaze is clear, but contains iron in small amounts. When applied over a white porcelain body the glaze produces a greenish-blue colour that gives the glaze its name. Some have incised or moulded decorations.\n\nThe Song dynasty qingbai bowl illustrated was likely made at the Jingdezhen village of Hutian, which was also the site of the imperial kilns established in 1004. The bowl has incised decoration, possibly representing clouds or the reflection of clouds in the water. The body is white, translucent and has the texture of very-fine sugar, indicating that it was made using crushed and refined pottery stone instead of pottery stone and kaolin. The glaze and the body of the bowl would have been fired together, in a saggar in a large wood-burning dragon kiln, typical of southern kilns in the period.\n\nThough many Song and Yuan dynasty qingbai bowls were fired upside down in special segmented saggars, a technique first developed at the Ding kilns in Hebei province. The rims of such wares were left unglazed but were often bound with bands of silver, copper or lead.\n\nOne remarkable example of \"qingbai\" porcelain is the so-called \"Fonthill Vase\", described in a guide for Fonthill Abbey published in 1823:\n\nThe vase was made at Jingdezhen, probably around 1300 and was sent as a present to Pope Benedict XII by one of the last Yuan emperors of China, in 1338. The mounts referred to in the 1823 description were of enamelled silver-gilt and were added to the vase in Europe in 1381. An 18th-century water colour of the vase complete with its mounts exists, but the mounts themselves were removed and lost in the 19th century. The vase is now in the National Museum of Ireland. It is often held that \"qingbai\" wares were not subject to the higher standards and regulations of the other porcelain wares, since they were made for everyday use. They were mass-produced, and received little attention from scholars and antiquarians. The Fonthill Vase, given by a Chinese emperor to a pope, might appear to cast at least some doubt on this view.\n\nFollowing in the tradition of earlier \"qingbai\" porcelains, blue and white wares are glazed using a transparent \"porcelain glaze\". The blue decoration is painted onto the body of the porcelain before glazing, using very finely ground cobalt oxide mixed with water. After the decoration has been applied the pieces are glazed and fired.\n\nIt is believed that underglaze blue and white porcelain was first made in the Tang dynasty. Only three complete pieces of Tang blue and white porcelain are known to exist (in Singapore from the Indonesian Belitung shipwreck), but shards dating to the 8th or 9th century have been unearthed at Yangzhou in Jiangsu Province. It has been suggested that the shards originated from a kiln in the province of Henan. In 1957, excavations at the site of a pagoda in Zhejiang province uncovered a Northern Song bowl decorated with underglaze blue and further fragments have since been discovered at the same site. In 1970 a small fragment of a blue and white bowl, again dated to the 11th century, was also excavated in the province of Zhejiang.\n\nIn 1975, shards decorated with underglaze blue were excavated at a kiln site in Jiangxi and, in the same year, an underglaze blue and white urn was excavated from a tomb dated to 1319, in the province of Jiangsu. It is of interest to note that a Yuan funerary urn decorated with underglaze blue and underglaze red and dated 1338 is still in the Chinese taste, even though by this time the large-scale production of blue and white porcelain in the Yuan dynasty, Mongol taste had started its influence at Jingdezhen.\n\nStarting early in the 14th century, blue and white porcelain rapidly became the main product of Jingdezhen, reaching the height of its technical excellence during the later years of the reign of the Kangxi Emperor and continuing in present times to be an important product of the city.\n\nThe tea caddy illustrated shows many of the characteristics of blue and white porcelain produced during the Kangxi period. The translucent body showing through the clear glaze is of great whiteness and the cobalt decoration, applied in many layers, has a fine blue hue. The decoration, a sage in a landscape of lakes and mountains with \"blazed\" rocks is typical of the period. The piece would have been fired in a saggar (a lidded ceramic box intended to protect the piece from kiln debris, smoke and cinders during firing) in a reducing atmosphere in a wood-burning \"egg-shaped\" kiln, at a temperature approaching .\n\nDistinctive blue-and-white porcelain was exported to Japan where it is known as Tenkei blue-and-white ware or \"ko sometsukei\". This ware is thought to have been especially ordered by tea masters for Japanese ceremony.\n\n\"Blanc de Chine\" is a type of white porcelain made at Dehua in Fujian province. It has been produced from the Ming dynasty (1368–1644) to the present day. Large quantities arrived in Europe as Chinese Export Porcelain in the early 18th century and it was copied at Meissen and elsewhere.\n\nThe area along the Fujian coast was traditionally one of the main ceramic exporting centers. Over 180 kiln sites have been identified extending in historical range from the Song dynasty to the present.\n\nFrom the Ming dynasty, porcelain objects were manufactured that achieved a fusion of glaze and body traditionally referred to as \"ivory white\" and \"milk white\". The special characteristic of Dehua porcelain is the very small amount of iron oxide in it, allowing it to be fired in an oxidising atmosphere to a warm white or pale ivory colour. (Wood, 2007)\n\nThe porcelain body is not very plastic but vessel forms have been made from it. Donnelly, (1969, pp.xi-xii) lists the following types of product: figures, boxes, vases and jars, cups and bowls, fishes, lamps, cup-stands, censers and flowerpots, animals, brush holders, wine and teapots, Buddhist and Taoist figures, secular figures and puppets. There was a large output of figures, especially religious figures, e.g. Guanyin, Maitreya, Lohan and Ta-mo figures.\nThe numerous Dehua porcelain factories today make figures and tableware in modern styles. During the Cultural Revolution \"Dehua artisans applied their very best skills to produce immaculate statuettes of Mao Zedong and the Communist leaders. Portraits of the stars of the new proletarian opera in their most famous roles were produced on a truly massive scale.\" Mao Zedong figures later fell out of favour but have been revived for foreign collectors.\n\nNotable artists in \"blanc de Chine\", such as the late Ming period He Chaozong, signed their creations with their seals. Wares include crisply modeled figures, cups, bowls and joss stick-holders.\n\nMany of the best examples of \"blanc de Chine\" are found in Japan where the white variety was termed \"hakugorai\" or \"Korean white\", a term often found in tea ceremony circles. The British Museum in London has a large number of \"blanc de Chine\" pieces, having received as a gift in 1980 the entire collection of P.J.Donnelly.\n\nCommonly used French terms for 'families', or palettes of enamel colours used on Chinese porcelain. Famille jaune, noire, rose, verte are terms used to classify Chinese porcelain by the dominant element in its colour palette.\n\nFamille verte (康熙五彩, \"Kangxi wucai\", also 素三彩, \"Susancai\"), adopted in the Kangxi period (1662–1722), uses green and iron red with other overglaze colours. It developed from the \"Wucai\" (五彩, \"Five colours\") style.\n\nFamille jaune is a variation using famille verte enamels on a yellow ground. Famille noire (Chinese: 黑地素三彩, \"Modi susancai\") uses a black ground (although some clobbered wares had the black added in the 19th century).\nFamille rose (known in Chinese as \"Fencai\" (粉彩) or \"Ruancai\" (軟彩, simplified 软彩), meaning 'soft colours', and later as \"Yangcai\" (洋彩), meaning 'foreign colours') was introduced during the reign of the Kangxi Emperor (1654–1722), possibly around 1720. It used mainly pink or purple and remained popular throughout the 18th and the 19th centuries, also being widely adopted by European factories.\n\nFamille rose enamel ware allows a greater range of colour and tone than was previously possible, enabling the depiction of more complex images, including flowers, figures and insects.\n\nPottery classified as stoneware in the West is usually regarded as porcelain in Chinese terms, where a stoneware group is not recognised, and so the definition of porcelain is rather different, covering all vitrified high-fired wares. Terms such as \"porcellaneous\" and \"near-porcelain\" are often used to reflect this, and cover wares that in Western terms lie on the border of stoneware and porcelain. High-fired stonewares were numerous from very early on, and included many high-prestige wares, including those for imperial use, as well as great quantities of everyday utilitarian pots. Usually they achieved their reputation by their glazes. Most of the celadon group, including Longquan celadons, especially earlier ones, can be classified as stoneware, and all classic Jian wares and Jizhou wares.\n\nBy contrast, the Yixing clay teapots and cups made from Yixing clay from Jiangsu province are usually left unglazed, and not washed after use, as the clay is believed to improve the taste of the tea, especially after it acquires a patina from long use. There are in fact a number of different clays, giving a range of colours. The pots are unusual in that they are often signed by their potters, which is very rare in China, perhaps because they were associated with the literati culture, of which Jiangsu was a stronghold. The earliest datable example is from a burial of 1533 in Nanjing. Elaborately decorated examples, often with a rectangular body, were exported to Europe from the 18th century, and these and pots for local use often had poems inscribed on them. As well as teaware and desk objects such as brush-rests, fruit and other natural shapes were modelled as ornaments. Production continues today, generally using simpler shapes.\n\nChinese potters have a long tradition of borrowing design and decorative features from earlier wares. Whilst ceramics with features thus borrowed might sometimes pose problems of provenance, they would not generally be regarded as either reproductions or fakes. However, fakes and reproductions have also been made at many times during the long history of Chinese ceramics and continue to be made today in ever-increasing numbers.\n\n\nThe most widely known test is the thermoluminescence test, or TL test, which is used on some types of ceramic to estimate, roughly, the date of last firing. Thermoluminescence dating is carried out on small samples of pottery drilled or cut from the body of a piece, which can be risky and disfiguring. For this reason, the test is rarely used for dating finely potted, high-fired ceramics. TL testing cannot be used at all on some types of ceramics, particularly high-fired porcelain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29555158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29555158", "title": "Constant Mews", "text": "Constant Mews\n\nConstant Mews (born 1954), D. Phil (\"Oxon\") is Professor of Medieval Thought and Director, Centre for Studies in Religion and Theology, Monash University, Melbourne. He is an authority on medieval religious thought, especially on the medieval philosopher and theologian, Peter Abelard, and on interfaith dialogue. He discovered and published what are possibly the original letters exchanged between Peter Abelard and his lover, Heloise.\n\nMews was born in England and spent his childhood there and in New Zealand. He completed his secondary education at St Peter's College, Auckland, New Zealand. He won the Trenwith Cup for History, the Taylor Cup for languages, the Arthur Bolland Cup for English and was the Dux of the college in his final year at St Peter's College in 1971. His brother is Douglas Mews.\n\nMews attended the University of Auckland and completed BA and MA degrees there in History. He carried out doctoral study at the University of Oxford, followed by five years (1980–1985) teaching British civilisation at the Universite de Paris III, while pursuing studies in medieval thought (focusing on Peter Abelard) in connection with Jean Jolivet, at the École pratique des hautes études en sciences religieuses. This was followed by two years as a Leverhulme research fellow at the University of Sheffield on editing the writings of Peter Abelard. Mews took up a position at Monash University as Lecturer in the Department of History in July 1987. He became involved in developing the Centre for Studies in Religion and Theology and in promoting studies in religion more generally, with a strong interest in interfaith work. He has had spells of study at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, in 1990 and 2000, and has also again taught in Paris, at the École pratique des hautes études (Ve section) and in the École des hautes études en sciences sociales.\n\nIn 1999 Mews published \"The Lost Love Letters of Heloise and Abelard\". This contains about 113 medieval love letters, edited in 1974 by the German scholar Ewald Koensgen. The letters, ascribed simply to a man and woman, survived because a 15th-century monk copied them for an anthology. Having spent some 20 years studying Abelard's philosophical and theological writings, Mews concluded that the letters (the longest known correspondence between a man and a woman from the medieval period) were written by Abelard and Heloise. In 2005 the historian Sylvain Piron translated the correspondence into French.\n\nWhether the letters were indeed the actual correspondence became a matter of intense scholarly debate in France. Mews and other scholars who support the authenticity case say all the evidence in and around the text points to Abelard and Heloise. Opponents say that is too simple and want definitive proof. They reject accusations of tunnel vision and deny they are motivated by professional envy at not having got there first. \"It's not jealousy, it's a question of method,\" said Monique Goullet, director of research in medieval Latin at Paris's Sorbonne University. \"If we had proof that it was Abelard and Heloise then everyone would calm down. But the current position among literature scholars is that we are shocked by too rapid an attribution process.\" But after his years of research, Mews is all the more convinced. \"The first time I encountered the words and ideas they sent a shiver down my spine. Unfortunately, that has been attacked as evidence of an emotional response,\" he said. \"There has been some very quick stereotyping of other people's arguments.\" Most Latin experts agree the document is authentic and of great literary worth, but its uniqueness makes some scholars suspicious. \"The most probable explanation is that it is a literary work written by one person who decided to reconstitute the writings of Abelard and Heloise,\" Goullet said. Others say it was a stylistic exercise between two students who imagined themselves as the lovers, or that it was written by another couple.\nMews has since discovered further textual parallels between the letters and the writings of Abelard which further support his arguments, included in \"Abelard and Heloise, Great Medieval Thinkers\" and journal articles published in 2007 and 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2533575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2533575", "title": "Convict assignment", "text": "Convict assignment\n\nConvict assignment was the practice used in many penal colonies of assigning convicts to work for private individuals. Contemporary abolitionists characterised the practice as virtual slavery, and some, but by no means all, latter-day historians have agreed with this assessment.\n\nIn Australia, every penal colony except Western Australia had a system of convict assignment. Convicts in Western Australia were never assigned, with the debatable exception of the Parkhurst apprentices.\n\nThe system was abolished in New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land on 1 July 1841 and replaced with the probation gang system. After working for two years in a labour gang, if they were well-behaved, convicts received 'probation passages' which meant they could work for wages.\n"}
{"id": "2801273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2801273", "title": "Country Reports on Terrorism", "text": "Country Reports on Terrorism\n\nCountry Reports on Terrorism is an annual report published by the United States Department of State. In 2005 it replaced the Patterns of Global Terrorism report, which had been released since 1985.\n\nThe report is published in accordance with Title 22, Section 2656(f) of the United States Code, which requires the Secretary of State to submit to Congress an annual report on terrorism.\n\nWhen the Patterns of Global Terrorism report for 2003 was released in April 2004, many errors were noted within it. The report did not list all the attacks considered to be terrorism that year, including major bombings in Istanbul and Iraq, and the statistics on terrorism were lower than outsiders thought they should have been.\n\nIn response to this criticism, the State Department released a revised report in June 2004, correcting most of the errors; however, this was not enough to stop some critics from saying the State Department had deliberately left out information showing failures in the War on Terror.\n\nWhen it came time to release the PoGT for 2004 in April 2005, the State Department announced it was getting rid of that report and replacing it with the Country Reports on Terrorism. The official reason was that the old method of gathering data was outdated and the new report featured a better collection of information.\n\nThe Country Reports on Terrorism does not provide any statistics on terrorism like its predecessor. It simply has several chapters dealing with a country and any progress it has made in fighting the War on Terrorism.\n\nHowever, a separate report released by the National Counterterrorism Center gave a chronology of \"significant terrorist events,\" something not featured in the Country Reports. That report said there were 651 \"significant\" attacks in 2004, which left 1,907 people killed and around 8,000 wounded. These figures were the highest in 21 years of compiled data on terrorism.\n\nThe National Counterterrorism Center Country Reports on Terrorism 2005 included a Statistical Annex, according to which there were 11,111 terrorist attacks in 2005 of which 3,474 occurred in Iraq and 489 occurred in Afghanistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2430446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2430446", "title": "Dan Graham", "text": "Dan Graham\n\nDaniel \"Dan\" Graham (born March 31, 1942) is an American artist, writer, and curator.\n\nGraham grew up in New Jersey. In 1964 he began directing the John Daniels Gallery in New York, where he put on Sol LeWitt's first one-man show, and in groups shows, exhibited works of Donald Judd, Dara Birnbaum, Dan Flavin and Robert Smithson. Like these artists, Graham considered himself a writer-artist, publishing essays and reviews on rock music, Dwight D. Eisenhower's paintings, and Dean Martin's television show. His earliest work dealt with the magazine page, predating but often associated with Conceptual art. His work often focuses on cultural phenomena, and incorporates photography, video, performance art, glass and mirror structures. He lives and works in New York.\n\nDan Graham was born in Urbana, Illinois, the son of a chemist and an educational psychologist. When he was 3, Graham moved from Illinois to Winfield Township, New Jersey, and then to nearby Westfield when he was 14. He had no formal education after high school and is self-educated. During his teens, reading included Margaret Mead, Claude Lévi-Strauss, the literary critic Leslie Fiedler and the French Nouveau Roman writers. He wanted to be a writer, loved rock music which he wrote about critically and because he couldn't afford art supplies his early art took the form of magazine \"articles\".\n\nGraham began his art career in 1964, at the age of 22, when he founded the John Daniels Gallery in New York. He worked there until 1965, when he started creating his own conceptual pieces. During his time at the gallery, he exhibited works by minimalist artists such as Carl André, Sol LeWitt—LeWitt's first solo gallery show, Donald Judd, Robert Smithson, Dan Flavin and Ward Jackson.\n\nIn the past thirty years, Dan Graham has proved himself to be a wide-ranging artist. His work consists of performance art, installations, video, sculpture, and photography. Few of Graham’s works have been commissioned or exhibited in the United States. In fact, the only major work commissioned in the U.S. in the last decade was the Rooftop Urban Park Project, in which he designed the piece \"Two-Way Mirror Cylinder Inside Cube and Video Salon\" (1981–1991). Some other commissions in the U.S. are \"Yin/Yang\" at MIT, the labyrinth at the Minneapolis Sculpture Garden, and at Middlebury College, and in Madison Square Park.\n\nGraham's work was always firmly based within conceptual art practice. Early examples were photographs and numerological sequences, often printed in magazines, for example \"Figurative (1965)\" and \"Schema (1966)\". With the latter Graham draws on the actual physical structure of the magazine in which it is printed for the content of the work itself. As such the same work changes according to its physical/structural location within the world. His early breakthrough-work however was a series of magazine-style photographs with text, \"Homes for America\" (1966–67), which counterpoints the monotonous and alienating effect of 1960's housing developments with their supposed desirability and the physical-geometry of a printed article. Other works include \"Site Effects/Common Drugs\" (1966) and \"Detumescence (1966)\".\n\nAfter this Graham broadened his conceptual practice development with performance, film, video and sculpture including \"Rock My Religion\" (1984) and \"Performer/Audience/Mirror\" (1975). His installations such as \"Public Space/Two Audiences\" (1976) or \"Yesterday/Today\" (1975) further inspired his move to the indoor and outdoor pavilions he most recently designs. His many conceptual pavilions including \"Two Way Mirror with Hedge Labyrinth\" (1989) and \"Two Way Mirror and Open Wood Screen Triangular Pavilion\" (1990) have increased his popularity as an artist. Dan Graham's first sculpture building project was \"Café Bravo\" at Kunst-Werke Institute for Contemporary Art in Berlin. After a lecture at the Berlin University of the Arts, Klaus Biesenbach invited Dan Graham to conceive the pavilion for Kunst-Werke, which Biesenbach founded, and he assisted Graham in the realization of the project.\n\nIn addition to his visual works, he has published a large array of critical and speculative writing.\n\nIn Sarah Lehrer-Graiwer's publication \"Pep Talk\" in 2009, Graham gave \"Artists' and Architects' Work That Influenced Me\" (in alphabetical order): Michael Asher, Larry Bell, Flavin, Itsuko Hasegawa, LeWitt, Roy Lichtenstein, Robert Mangold, Bruce Nauman, Claes Oldenburg, Kazuo Shinohara, Michael Snow, Mies van der Rohe and Robert Venturi.\n\nWriter Brian Wallis has said that Graham’s works “displayed a profound faith in the idea of the present, [he] sought to comprehend post-war American culture through imaginative new forms of analytical investigation, facto-graphic reportage, and quasi-scientific mappings of space/time relationships.” Graham's work has been influenced by the social change of the Civil Rights Movement, The Vietnam War, the Women's liberation movement as well as many other cultural changes. These prolific events and changes in history affected the conceptual art and minimalist movements. \n\nLike LeWitt, Morris, Smithson and Flavin, Graham has worked at the intersection of minimalism and conceptual art. Graham exhibited a predominantly minimalist aesthetic in his earlier photographs and prints. His prints of numeric sequences, words, graphs, and graphics strongly reflect his minimalist qualities. His later works have become very conceptual, and examine the relationships between interior space, exterior space, and the perception of the viewer when anticipated boundaries are changed.\n\nSoon after he left the John Daniels Gallery, Dan Graham started a series of photographs which started in the sixties and continues into the present. Of his magazine work, Graham said, These photographs question the relationship between public and private architecture and the ways in which each space affects behavior. Some of his first conceptual works dealt with different forms of printed artwork of numeric sequences. In 1965 Graham began shooting color photographs for his series \"Homes For America\". All the photographs taken were of single-family homes around the American suburbs. This photo series, one of the first artworks in the space of text, was published as a twopage spread in Arts Magazine. The \"article\" is an assembly of texts including his photographs. The photographs were also chosen for the exhibition \"Projected Art\" at the Finch College Museum of Art. In 1969, Graham focused on performance and film that explored the social dynamic of the audience, incorporating them into the work, leading to an 80 ft photo series, \"Sunset to Sunrise\".\n\nFrom the late 1960s into the late 70's, Graham shifted toward a largely performance-based practice, incorporating film and the new medium of video in his systematic investigations of cybernetics, phenomenology and embodiment. In 1969, he made his first film \"Sunset to Sunrise\", in which the camera moves opposite to the course of sun, inverting the progression of time. This piece is emblematic of his filmic work that would extend into the early 1970s, in which he would explore “subjective, time-based processes” through perceptual, kinetic exercises, using the camera as an extension of his body and implicating the subjectivity of the viewer. Other films from this period include \"Two Correlated Rotations\" (1969), \"Roll\" (1970), and \"Body Press\" (1970–72), all three featuring the interaction of two cameras or the juxtaposition of two films. \"Roll\" (1970) was a performance exercise in phenomenology similar to Bruce Nauman's early films. \"Body Press,\" in which a naked man and woman stand back-to-back in a cylinder lined with concave mirrors filming themselves and their distorted reflections, introduces the mirrored image as a prominent theme for Graham, which he would explore extensively in his performance and video practice as well as his later architectural work.\n\nGraham has stated that his works are “models to define the limits of an idea of representation as the conventional limits which necessarily define the situation between the artist and spectator,” and his performances in the 1970s foreground this relational approach. In these works Graham explicitly invokes theories of structural linguistics, especially the work of Jacques Lacan. Graham’s 1972 performance piece \"Two Consciousness Projections\" underscores a preoccupation with phenomenological aspects of relationality, utilizing the reflective capacities of video feedback. In the performance, a woman sits in front of a monitor displaying her image from the live feed of a video camera held by a man behind the monitor and attempts to narrate her conscious mind, while the man describes her as he watches through the camera. This work presents an experiment in self-perception and representation, modulated by numerous mirroring agents—the woman’s own image on the monitor, the “image” of her depicted by the man, as well as both performers’ awareness of the audience. In his own writings, Graham articulates an interest in deconstructing the divisions between interior intention and visible behavior formed when looking at one’s reflection in a mirror, proposing video feedback as both a technical and conceptual means by which to achieve this. Many of Graham’s performance pieces work to exhibit and exploit the spontaneous interaction between thought and expression, inside and outside, extending this dissolution of barriers to dichotomies of performer and audience, private and public. Graham’s most complex interrogation of this is the performance Performer/Audience/Mirror (1977), in which he stands between a large mirror and an audience, describing himself, the audience, his reflection, and the audience’s reflection in sequential phases of continuous commentary. Expanding upon the themes in Two Consciousness Projections, this work implicates the audience in their own feedback cycle of self-perception.\n\nGraham produced a number of videos that documented his performance works, such as the 1972 \"Past Future Split Attention\", in which the conversation of two acquaintances becomes a cacophony of simultaneous speech and interruption. One other major example of a documented performance is \"Performance/Audience/Mirror\" (1975).\n\nGraham also incorporated video into installations, creating environments where video technology is used to alter the viewer's own bodily experience. In 1974, he created an installation with a series of videos called \"Time Delay Room\", which used time-delayed Closed-circuit television cameras and video projections.\n\nLastly, Graham produced a number of video documentaries, such as \"Rock My Religion\" from (1983–84) and \"Minor Threat\" (1983). \"Rock My Religion\" (1984) explores rock music as an art form and draws a parallel between it and the development of the Shaker religion in America. He observes the changes in beliefs and superstitions in the Shaker religion since the 18th century, and relates them to the development of rock culture. The film has been distributed widely, and has included screenings at both institutional and counter-cultural venues across Europe and the US, including Lisson Gallery, Auto Italia South East and Whitney Museum of American Art. \"Minor Threat\" documents the youth culture surrounding the band of the same name. In it, Graham analyses the social implications of this subculture, treating it \"as a tribal rite, a catalyst for the violence and frustration of its predominantly male, teenage audience.\"\n\nDan Graham’s artworks are said to blur the line between sculpture and architecture. Since the 1980s, Graham has been working on an ongoing series of freestanding, sculptural objects called pavilions. Graham's popularity has grown since he started his walk-in pavilions and he has received commissions all over the world. His pavilions are steel and glass sculptures which create a different space which disorients the viewer from his or her usual surroundings or knowledge of space. They are made of a few huge panes of glass or mirror, or of half-mirrored glass that is both reflective and transparent. Wooden lattice and steel are other materials most commonly used in his work.\n\nThe MIT Art Center calls his pavilions rigorously conceptual, uniquely beautiful, and insistently public. The pavilions create a unique experience for the viewer. His pavilions are created for the public experience. His pavilions combine architecture and art. Dan Graham’s pavilion works have been compared to Ryue Nishizawa and Kazuyo Sjima’s work on the Kanazawa Museum. The glass wall of the structure reflects and distorts light much like Grahams sculptures. The layered, but simplistic quality is said to be very much like Graham's. The structures are similar in their study of space and light.\n\nIn 1981, Graham started work on a decade long project in New York City. The work \"Two-Way Mirror Cylinder Inside Cube and Video Salon\" was part of the Rooftop Urban Park Project. Graham worked on the piece in collaboration with architects Mojdeh Baratloo and Clifton Balch. This transparent and reflective pavilion transformed the roof of 548 West 22nd Street into a rooftop park. The pavilion captures the surrounding landscape and changes of light creating an intense visual effect with the sky. The \"Two-Way Mirror Cylinder Inside Cube and Video Salon\" has become one of his most well-known works throughout his art career.\n\nAfter numerous commissions in Europe, the Children’s Pavilion (1988–93) was actually the first piece Graham was commissioned to do in the United States. A collaboration with Jeff Wall, the pavilion is a very conceptual piece relating to the children of the nation. It is a circular shaped room with an oculus that is both transparent and reflective at the top, so the viewers on the outside of the building could look inside as well. Wall's nine circular framed photographs of children belonging to many nationalities and ethnic backgrounds surround the room. Each child is shown half-length and viewed from below against the background of a sky. In each image Wall chooses a different sky. In 1991, the Witte de With Center for Contemporary Art attempted to realise the pavilion on Rotterdam's Ommoord district; the plan was eventually abandoned in 1994. Related works include \"Children's Pavilion (Chambre d'Amis)\" (1986), \"Skateboard Pavilion\" (1989), and \"Funhouse for the Children of Saint-Janslein\" (1997–99).\n\nFor a temporary installation in the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s roof garden is, \"Hedge Two-Way Mirror Walkabout\" (2014) is a collaboration with the Swiss landscape architect Günther Vogt. The pavilion consists of an S-shaped curve of slightly reflective glass, bookended by two parallel ivy hedgerows. Later, Graham worked with designer Phoebe Philo to create an S-shaped steel-and-glass pavilion in which to show her spring/summer 2017 collection.\n\nOther realized pavilions by Graham include: \n\nDan Graham has made major contributions through his writing. He works as an art critic, writing revealing articles about fellow artists. He has contributed inquisitorial ads in newspapers and writings in magazines. He has also written books along with other writers. Many of the books are a collection of essays about his works. The most read include \"Two Way Mirror Power: Selected Writings by Dan Graham on His Art, Half Square Half Crazy\", and \"Sympathy for the Devil: Art and Rock and Roll since 1967\".\n\nFor the Performa festival in 2007, Dan Graham designed the stage set made for New York-based band Japanther's performance. Graham has collaborated previously with Japanther on the rock puppet opera \"Don't Trust Anyone Over Thirty: Entertainment by Dan Graham with Tony Oursler and Other Collaborators\" (2004).\n\n\nGraham's first solo show was held in 1969 at the John Daniels Gallery in New York. In 1991, an exhibition of his pavilions and photographs was held at the Lisson Gallery in London. Another important exhibition featuring Graham was \"Public/Private\", an exhibition that traveled to four different venues. The show, which included his pavilions, architectural photographs and models, performances, and video installations, had its opening in 1994 at the Moore College of Art and Design. In 2001, a retrospective was held covering his 35-year career. The museums holding the event included the Musee d'Art Moderne de la Ville in Paris, Kroller-Muller Museum in Otterlo, the Netherlands, and Kiasma Museum in Helsinki, Finland. In 2009, another major retropspective was mounted in the U.S., showing at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles; Whitney Museum of American Art, New York and the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis. Graham's work has also been exhibited at the Venice Biennale (1976, 2003, 2004 and 2005), documentas V, VI, VII, IX, IX and X (1972, 1977, 1982, 1992 and 1997), and at Skulptur Projekte Münster '87 and '97.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35799636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35799636", "title": "Declaration on the Protection of Women and Children in Emergency and Armed Conflict", "text": "Declaration on the Protection of Women and Children in Emergency and Armed Conflict\n\nThe Declaration on the Protection of Women and Children in Emergency and Armed Conflict was adopted by the United Nations in 1974 and went into force the same year. It was proposed by the United Nations Economic and Social Council, on the grounds that women and children are often the victims of wars, civil unrest, and other emergency situations that cause them to suffer \"inhuman acts and consequently suffer serious harm\".\n\nThe Declaration states that women and children suffer victimization during armed conflict due to \"suppression, aggression, colonialism, racism, \nalien domination and foreign subjugation\". The Declaration specifically \nprohibits attacks and bombing of civilian populations (Article 1) and \nthe use of chemical and biological weapons on civilian populations \n(Article 2). Article 3 requires states to abide by the Geneva \nProtocol of 1925 and the Geneva Convention of 1949. The \nDeclaration also requires countries to take measures to end \n\"persecution, torture, punitive measures, degrading treatment and \nviolence\" especially when they are targeted against women and children, \nas well as recognizing \"imprisonment, torture, shooting, mass arrests, \ncollective punishment, destruction of dwellings, and forcible evictions\" as criminal acts.\n\nCertain inalienable rights are also enshrined in the Declaration, such as \naccess to food, shelter, and medical care, which are to be provided to \nwomen and children caught in emergency situations.\n\nFinally, the Declaration cites the binding nature of other international law \ninstruments, naming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the \nInternational Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, \nInternational Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, \nDeclaration of the Rights of the Child.\n\n\nFull Text of the Declaration *\n"}
{"id": "234655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234655", "title": "Flower war", "text": "Flower war\n\nA flower war or flowery war (, ) was a ritual war fought intermittently between the Aztec Triple Alliance and its enemies from the \"mid-1450s to the arrival of the Spaniards in 1519.\" Enemies included the city-states of Tlaxcala, Huejotzingo, and Cholula in the Tlaxcala-Pueblan Valley in central Mexico. In these wars, participants would fight according to a set of conventions.\n\nDuring the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, Tlaxcala allied with the Spaniards against the Aztecs, being eager to see their longtime flower war enemies overthrown.\n\nTexcocan nobleman Ixtlilxochitl gives the \"fullest early statement concerning the origin as well as the initial rationale\" of the flower war. From 1450 to 1454, the Aztecs had suffered from crop failure and severe drought; this led to famine and many deaths in the central Mexican highlands. Ixtlilxochitl reports that the flower war began \"as a response\" to the famine: \"the priests . . . of Mexico [Tenochtitlan] said that the gods were angry at the empire, and that to placate them it was necessary to sacrifice many men, and that this had to be done regularly.\" Thus, Tenochtitlan (the Aztec capital), Texcoco, Tlaxcala, Cholula, and Huejotzingo agreed to engage in flower war for the purpose of obtaining human sacrifices for the gods. However, scholars such as Hicks disagree with using Ixlilxochitl's writings as the origin story of the flower war, due to Ixtlilxochitl not specifically mentioning \"flower war\" and being the only known source to record these events.\n\nFlower wars differed from typical wars in a number of important aspects. While engaging in a flower war, competing armies would meet on a \"preset date at a preselected place.” These places became sacred sites and were called \"cuauhtlalli\" or \"yaotlalli.\" Combatants signaled the start of war by burning a large \"pyre of paper and incense\" between the armies. Actual battle tactics also differed from typical warfare. In typical warfare, the Aztecs used atlatl darts, stones, and other ranged weapons to weaken enemy forces from afar. However, in flower wars, the Aztecs neglected to use ranged weapons and instead used weapons such as the macuahuitl that required skill and close proximity to the enemy. The use of these kinds of weapons allowed the Aztecs to display their individual combat ability, which was an important part of the flower war.\n\nFlower wars involved fewer soldiers than typical Aztec wars did. A larger proportion of the soldiers would be drawn from nobility than during a typical war. These characteristics allowed the Aztecs to engage in flower wars during any time of the year. In contrast, the Aztecs could fight larger wars of conquest only from late autumn to early spring, because Aztec citizens were needed for farming purposes during the rest of the year. Additionally, flower wars differed from typical wars in that there were equal numbers of soldiers on each side of the battle; this was also related to the Aztecs wanting to show off their military prowess.\n\nFlower wars were generally less lethal than typical wars, but a long-running flower war could become increasingly deadly over time. For example, in a long-running flower war between the Aztecs and the Chalcas, there were few battle deaths at the start. After time had passed, captured commoners started to be killed, but captured nobles were frequently released; sacrifice was not always the fate of captives. However, after further time had passed, captive nobles were killed along with the commoners. This increased the cost of the flower war for both the Aztecs and the Chalcas. The Aztecs considered flower war death to be more noble than dying in a typical war; this can be seen in the word for a flower war death, \"xochimiquiztli\", which translates to \"flowery death, blissful death, fortunate death.\" Further, the Aztecs thought that those who died in a flower war would be transported to the heaven where Huitzilopochtli (the supreme god of sun, fire, and war) lived.\n\nThere appear to be a variety of reasons that the Aztecs engaged in flower wars. Historians have thought that flower wars were fought for purposes including combat training and capturing humans for religious sacrifice. Historians note evidence of the sacrifice motive: one of Cortez's captains, Andres de Tapia, once asked Moctezuma II why the stronger Aztec Empire had not yet conquered the nearby state of Tlaxcala outright. The emperor responded by saying that although they could have if they had wanted to, the Aztecs had not done so because war with Tlaxcala was a convenient way of gathering sacrifices and training their own soldiers. However, scholars such as Frederic Hicks question that the main purpose of the flower war was to gain sacrifices. Tlaxcalan historian Munoz Camargo noted that the Aztecs would often besiege Tlaxcalan towns and cut off trade, which was uncharacteristic of a typical flower war. For this reason, proponents of Hicks' idea believe that the Aztecs did want to conquer the Tlaxcalans, but that they simply could not for some reason.\n\nDespite many scholars' doubts about the sacrifice motive of the flower war, Hicks asserts that Moctezuma II's explanations of the flower war (gaining sacrifices and combat training) were logical, given that the Aztecs did place a heavy importance on both sacrifice and martial ability. Fighting in actual warfare was a mandatory part of training for warriors of the noble class, and it was heavily encouraged for warriors of lower classes as well. Given these factors, Hicks suggests that Moctezuma II's stated reasons may have been genuine and not just an excuse for military failure.\n\nHowever, some scholars have suggested that the flower war served purposes beyond gaining sacrifices and combat training. For example, Hassig states that for the Aztecs, \"flower wars were an efficient means of continuing a conflict that was too costly to conclude immediately.\" As such, a purpose of these wars was to occupy and wear down the enemy's fighting force. By requiring an equal number of soldiers on each side, the Aztecs made the battle seem balanced at first; however, the side with fewer overall troops suffered more because the losses comprised a greater percentage of their total forces. Through this, the Aztecs used the flower wars to weaken their opponents. Furthermore, since fewer soldiers took part in flower war as compared to a traditional war, the practice of flower war allowed the Aztecs to hold a potential threat at bay while focusing the bulk of their forces elsewhere.\n\nAnother purpose of the flower war, according to Hassig, was to show the superiority of Aztec troops. This was another reason that equal numbers of troops were used. If the Aztecs tried to use numerical superiority, their enemy would resort to the kind of defensive tactics that the Aztecs had trouble fighting against. With equal numbers, the enemy would fight the Aztecs on the open field, where individual soldiers had a greater chance of showing off their martial ability. Finally, according to Hassig, “propaganda was perhaps the most significant purpose of flower wars.\" By engaging their opponents in the flower war, the Aztecs were able to continuously showcase their force, which warned other city-states about their power. If the Aztecs made enough of a show of force, it could encourage the allies of the Aztecs' enemies to change their allegiance.\n"}
{"id": "18863889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18863889", "title": "Francesco Matarazzo", "text": "Francesco Matarazzo\n\nFrancesco Matarazzo, (1443 – August 21, 1518) was an Italian historian of the European Renaissance. His fame rests largely on his masterwork \"Chronicles of the City of Perugia 1492-1503\" which has become a primary source for many later historians of the Italian Renaissance and in particular the city of Perugia.\n\nAlthough the exact date of his birth in unknown, it is believed that Matarazzo was born about the year 1443 in the small town of Deruta, near Perugia. Little is known of his family, but he is said to have been of noble descent, which would have guaranteed him an extensive education. As a teenager he was chosen to compose the Latin inscriptions that were inscribed beneath the portraits of famous citizens of Perugia that Braccio Baglione had painted to decorate his palace in the city. In 1464 he was teaching in the University of Ferrara and three years later he was assistant to the celebrated humanist teacher Ognibene da Lonigo at Vicenza.\n\nIn 1472, he traveled to Greece and settled in Rhodes to study the Greek language. Writing to a friend he reported, \"I already speak the language with such fluency that you might think I had been born and brought up in Greece.\" After wide-ranging travels in the Mediterrean, he settled in Perugia circa 1475 where we find him designated as \"reverendi domini Perusinae civitatis secretarius dignissimus\". The next seventeen years of his life were spent in his native city.\n\nOn 7 March 1485, in celebration of the feast of St. Thomas Aquinas at the Basilica of Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome, Matarazzo delivered the annual encomium in honor of the \"angelic doctor\" to the members of the Dominican \"studium generale\", the future Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\".\n\nIn 1486 he was appointed Professor of Rhetoric in the University of Perugia.\n\nIn 1492 he succeeded Ognibene as Professor of the Humanities at Vicenza where he spent four or five years.\n\nThe magistrates of Perugia ordered his return to the city under penalties and upon his return Matarazzo, contrary to his own expectations, was given a warm reception. \"Men do me honour; as I pass through the streets I am saluted; I am loved by the Baglioni, and by all other citizens besides.\" The following year he was appointed Professor in the University of Perugia at a salary of 110 ducats, guaranteed by the taxes of two villages which were assigned to him.\n\nThe rest of his life was spent in Perugia in an honourable position, in which, according to the usage of the time,\npolitical and literary employment were assigned to him in turns. He was frequently charged with the composition of\nfuneral orations over distinguished citizens. In 1503 he became the State Chancellor; he went as ambassador to\nRome and Florence and to other States, and continued in active service of the State till 1513.\n\nConcerning his death we have the chronicle of his friend Teseo Alfani, which reads: \"On this Friday morning, August 20, 1518, before\ndawn, died the most excellent Francesco Matarazzo, who had been down with fever for about a month. All the city was sore at heart, for the man had great qualities, and stood indeed above all others, not only in our city, but almost in the whole of Italy. May God have pardoned his sins. He was about seventy-five years old.\"\n\nAt the time this chronicle was written, the city of Perugia was one of the many Renaissance centers of political strife, moral outrage and ruthless violence. The book relates the story of two rival families, the Oddi and the Baglioni, who are locked in a deadly struggle for possession of the city. In 1492 the victorious Baglioni are the reigning overlords of the Republic. The Oddi family and its attendant army live in exile in the valley between Perugia and Assisi where they conduct a long and oppressive guerrilla war against their rivals; and in the process devastate the Umbrian land and impoverish the common citizen.\n\nConsidering that Matarazzo wrote under the patronage of the Baglione, many critics regard the author as biased in his selection and presentation of historical material.\n\nSeveral sheets of the manuscript have been lost and the story begins and ends abruptly.\n\n"}
{"id": "13519672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13519672", "title": "George Proctor Kane", "text": "George Proctor Kane\n\nGeorge Proctor Kane (August 4, 1817 – June 23, 1878) was an American politician and policeman. He is best known for his role as Marshal of Police during the Baltimore riot of 1861 and his subsequent imprisonment at Fort McHenry and Fort Warren without the benefit of \"habeas corpus\". His position as Marshal of Police and his southern sympathies were two of many factors in Abraham Lincoln's decision in February 1861 to pass through Baltimore surreptitiously on his way to Washington to be inaugurated, in order to avoid a possible assassination attempt. Despite his politics, Kane was instrumental in providing protection and an escort for Mary Todd Lincoln on her arrival in Baltimore in February 1861 on her way to the inauguration of her husband, who had preceded her.\n\nKane was born in Baltimore, Maryland, US in 1817, into an Irish immigrant family, and at an early age entered the grain and grocery business. He was commissioned an ensign in the Independent Grays, a military organization, and afterward commanded the Eagle Artillery and the Montgomery Guards. He was later colonel of the First Maryland Regiment of Artillery.\n\nMrs. Kane was Miss Anna Griffith, daughter of Capt. John Griffith, of Dorchester County, Maryland.\n\nKane was (as a matter of course, since he had several political offices) much identified with the politics of the City of Baltimore. He was originally an adherent of the old Whig Party and an active and enthusiastic supporter of Henry Clay, as shown by the fact that he was Grand Marshal of the parade of the Whig Young Men's National Convention held at Baltimore May 1, 1844, which ratified the nomination of Mr. Clay for the Presidency of the United States. The future Mayor of Baltimore was then but twenty-four years old. In 1847, during the famine in Ireland, he was very active in relief work. At this period he was president of the Hibernian Society. With several others, Mr. Kane purchased the old 'H'-shaped, massive domed \"Merchants' Exchange\" (designed by famous architect Benjamin Henry Latrobe, built 1816–1820, the largest building in America at the time, also known as the \"Baltimore Exchange\", later site of the present US Customs House, built 1903–05) on South Gay Street between Water and East Lombard Streets and sold the property to the United States Government itself, which, upon remodeling the buildings, which had always housed Federal courts, customs, post office and a branch of the First Bank of the United States along with other city hall/municipal offices in one wing (until \"Old City Hall\"—the previous Peale Museum on Holliday Street was acquired in 1830 and occupied to 1875) and also included those of lawyers, brokers, shipping companies and other maritime businesses in another wing. They now continued to use them for years exclusively as the US Customs House and Post-office (until a new US Courthouse was constructed at the northwestern corner of East Fayette Street and North Street (now Guilford Avenue) in 1859–60, dedicated by 15th President, James Buchanan. Later supplemented by a larger central Post Office/US Courthouse of Italian Renaissance Revival architecture with eight small towers and large central clock tower) was constructed in 1889 on the east side of Battle Monument Square, facing North Calvert Street. He was also active in the old volunteer \"Baltimore City Unified Fire Department\" \"confederation\" system (organized in the 1830s to 1859) and president of the Old Independent Volunteer Fire Company. Historians credit Colonel Kane with suggesting and campaigning for a \"paid\", professional steam-powered fire department system which was later finally organized in the city in 1858–1859, as a definite expansion of municipal governmental functions with advanced improvements.\n\nIn 1849 he was appointed Collector of the Port of Baltimore.\n\nIn the 1850s, Baltimore was a city mired in political corruption and mob violence with occasional riots between rival gangs known as \"Plug-Uglies\" and others (similar in look and feel to the situation in Civil War-era New York City portrayed in director Martin Scorsese's 2002 film \"Gangs of New York\" based on the novels of Herbert Asbury). The new Baltimore City Police Department had just been organized a few years before in 1857 along with the Baltimore City Fire Department also just the year before in 1859 to eliminate some of the violent clashes between competing rival volunteer fire companies which had served since the 1770s. As a result, the General Assembly of Maryland (state legislature) embarked upon a reform movement, which included finding a strong new \"Marshal of Police\" (chief). Kane filled the bill, becoming Marshal of Police in 1860, under newly elected reformist Mayor George William Brown. According to famous city historian J. Thomas Scharf, \"It is impossible to overrate the change that the organization of an efficient police force wrought in the condition of the city.\" Mayor Brown later wrote that the entire police force \"had been raised to a high degree of discipline and efficiency under the command of Marshal Kane.\"\n\nIn February 1861, Detective Allan Pinkerton, (1819–1884), working on behalf of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad, uncovered what he believed to be a plot to assassinate President-elect Abraham Lincoln as he journeyed through Baltimore on his way to Washington to begin his first term. Pinkerton presented his findings to Lincoln, which included his belief that Kane, recently appointed Marshal of Police in Baltimore by newly elected reformist Mayor George William Brown, was a \"rabid rebel\" who could not be trusted to provide security to Mr. Lincoln while in Baltimore. Pinkerton believed that Kane could participate in the plot merely by under-performing in his duties, thereby giving others ample opportunity to carry out their plans, and claimed to have overheard a conversation in a Baltimore hotel in which Kane indicated that he had no intention of providing a police escort for Lincoln. Baltimore at this time was a hotbed of pro-Southern sympathies. Unlike other cities on the President-elect's itinerary, including New York, Philadelphia and Harrisburg, Baltimore had planned no official welcome for Lincoln. Pinkerton's information regarding Kane, along with other information discovered by him, his operatives and others, led to the President-elect's decision to follow the detective's advice, changing his travel plans and passing through Baltimore surreptitiously nine hours ahead of his published schedule.\n\nIn 1868, in response to stories then circulating in the press about the Baltimore plot, Kane wrote a lengthy account of his view of the events of February 21–23, 1861. He believed the President and his family would arrive in Baltimore as planned on the Northern Central Railroad at its Calvert Street Station (later after 1950, the site of the Baltimore Sun's offices and printing plant, by Bath Street and the overhead Orleans Street Viaduct) at 12:30 p.m. on February 23, and depart on a 3 p.m. train from the Camden Street Station on the southwest side of town. That left two and a half hours to fill in a City in which the President got only about 1000 votes, and most of those, according to Kane, from \"the very scum of the city.\" In other words, there were no sizable numbers of upper crust Lincoln supporters who might be counted on to rally around the President in a public display, and entertain him, as had continually happened on the President's previous stops coming East in New York, Harrisburg, and Philadelphia on his triumphal parade through the North from his home in Springfield, Illinois. Kane came up with a plan, which he implemented, in which John S. Gittings, who owned the Northern Central Railroad, would travel to the village of Maryland Line (on the Mason–Dixon line, border between Maryland and Pennsylvania), get on the President's train, and accompany him to Baltimore. Once in Baltimore, the train would make an unscheduled stop at North Charles and Bolton Streets, where Kane would meet it with carriages that would carry the new President and his family to Gittings' mansion on Mt. Vernon Place. There a sumptuous meal would be served. This plan avoided the Calvert Street Station altogether and kept the President-elect largely out of view of possible \"rabble rousers\". According to his own account, Kane carried out his plan exactly, with the only exception being that the new President was not aboard the train. In actuality, President-elect Lincoln having possibly already anticipated the possible plot through the information secured by and presented to him by the noted new detective Allan Pinkerton, (1819–1884), and Samuel Morse Felton, Sr., (1809–1889), President of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad, and confirmed by some other sources. So after leaving his party in Harrisburg, Lincoln boarded a night express back to Philadelphia with Ward Hill Lamon, (1828–1893), his trusted aide, and traveled that evening back east and had his car attached to the end of a last evening P.W. & B. train running southwest to Baltimore arriving at the east-side President Street Station at 3 a.m. With his lonely night car pulled slightly west along Pratt Street to the Camden Street Station, where it was held for a short while then placed at the end of a Baltimore & Ohio Railroad train to Washington where the sleepy President-elect and his bodyguard (and possibly another armed man arrived at the B. & O. Station in the Nation's Capital at 6 a.m. taking up residence in the noted Willard's Hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue three blocks from the White House of out-going 15th President James Buchanan. Newspaper accounts variously described Mrs. Lincoln and the boys being met by an unruly crowd in the Calvert Street Station disappointed in not seeing the new President were reported in various ways. They later also followed on the B. & O. later that day. Kane, in his memoirs of the Plot and 1861, claimed this was erroneous and that Mrs. Lincoln was not jostled by the crowd, but that she had already alighted and left the station before they assembled.\n\nOn April 18, 1861, two companies of US Artillery and four companies of militia arrived from Harrisburg at the Bolton Station, in the northern part of Baltimore. A large crowd assembled at the station, subjecting the militia to abuse and threats. According to the mayor at the time, \"An attack would certainly have been made but for the vigilance and determination of the police, under the command of Marshal Kane.\"\n\nKane and others in Baltimore, knowing the fever pitch of the city, sought to learn about plans for other troops to pass through town, but their telegrams north asking for information were largely ignored, probably at least partly because of Kane's well-known Southern sympathies. So it was on the next day, April 19, that Baltimore authorities had no warning that troops were arriving from Massachusetts and Pennsylvania. The first of the troops had arrived at the President Street Station, on the east side of town, and had successfully traveled the one-mile distance along East Pratt Street via horse drawn rail cars, to the Camden Street Station (now near modern \"Camden Yards\"/Oriole Park baseball stadium) the west side, to continue to Washington. There a disturbance ensued that soon brought the attention of Marshal Kane. His police, (according to Mayor Brown's later memoirs), prevented a large and angry crowd \"from committing any serious breach of the peace.\" Upon hearing reports that the mobs would attempt to tear up the rails leading toward Washington, Kane dispatched some of his men to protect the tracks.\n\nMeanwhile, the balance of northern troops encountered greater difficulty traversing Pratt Street. Obstructions were placed on the tracks by the crowd and some cars were forced back toward the President Street station. The soldiers attempted to march the distance along Pratt Street, and according to Mayor Brown were met with \"shouts and stones, and I think, an occasional pistol shot.\"\n\nThe soldiers fired back, and the scene was one of general mayhem. Marshall Kane soon appeared with a group of policemen from the direction of the Camden Street Station, \"and throwing themselves in the rear of the troops, they formed a line in front of the mob, and with drawn revolvers kept it back. ... Marshal Kane's voice shouted, \"Keep back, men, or I shoot!\" This movement, which I saw myself, was gallantly executed, and was perfectly successful. The mob recoiled like water from a rock.\" By the time it was over, four soldiers and twelve civilians were dead. These were the first casualties of the American Civil War.\n\nEven though Kane appears to have executed his duties faithfully during these events, and wrote an official account defending his actions (), there is no question that he was very pronounced in his Southern sympathies. After the riot, Marshal Kane telegraphed to Bradley T. Johnson in Frederick, MD. as follows:\n\nStreets red with Maryland blood; send expresses over the mountains of Maryland and Virginia for the riflemen to come without delay. Fresh hordes will be down on us tomorrow. We will fight them and whip them, or die.\n\nThis startling telegram produced immediate results. Mr. Johnson, afterwards served as a general in the Confederate States Army, commanding the Maryland regiments came with volunteers from Frederick by special train that night and other county military organizations began to arrive. Virginians were reported hastening to Baltimore.\n\nHowever, after days of excitement and suspense, the upheaval subsided, and soon General Benjamin Butler, commander of the Massachusetts state militia, with a strong Federal force of the 6th Massachusetts and several other regiments from other states, took possession of Baltimore's Federal Hill by night during a driving rainstorm, May 10, 1861, where he erected extensive fortifications. For the rest of the period of the war Baltimore was closely guarded by Northern troops. Within the year, the city was surrounded by a dozen or more heavily fortified earthen embankment forts making the city, the second-most heavily fortified city in the world at that time, next to Washington, D.C., the Nation's Capital.\n\nMarshal Kane remained in office as head of the Baltimore City police until June 27, 1861, when he was arrested in the dead of night at his house on St. Paul Street by a detachment of Federal soldiers and taken to Fort McHenry. From there he was sent to Fort Lafayette in New York. From there he wrote a letter to President Lincoln in September, 1861, describing the fever from malaria he contracted at Fort McHenry, and the inhumane conditions at Fort Lafayette. \"Whilst suffering great agony from the promptings of nature and effects of my debility I am frequently kept for a long time at the door of my cell waiting for permission to go to the water-closet owing to the utter indifference of some of my keepers to the ordinary demands of humanity.\" Later he was moved to Fort Warren in Boston. In all he was confined for 14 months. He was released in 1862 and went to Montreal.\n\nAs the Civil War was beginning, Kane was moved from Fort McHenry to Fort Lafayette, and then to Fort Columbus, New York. From there he wrote to US Secretary of State William H. Seward in October 1861 asking for a speedy trial and complaining that the conditions at Lafayette had been so bad that he required medical care for \"an affection of the heart which I attribute to the nature of my confinement at Lafayette.\" This heart condition may have precluded his service later on the field of battle for the Confederacy. Eventually Kane was released and went to Montreal in Quebec, Canada.\n\nAccording to a very erroneous (unusual) \"The New York Times\" obituary of him on June 23, 1878, (then edited by founder Henry Raymond), Kane received a commission on General Robert E. Lee's staff, and was with Lee at Gettysburg. This seems unlikely (according to modern research and scholarship); as a letter he supposedly wrote to Jefferson Davis, (1808–1889), President of the Confederate States was on July 17, 1863, just two weeks after the Battle of Gettysburg, and is from Canada, where Kane supposedly offers his services in organizing an expedition against Chicago, Milwaukee, and Detroit. His plan was to destroy all shipping, thus \"paralyzing the lake commerce.\" By November, he writes Davis again from Montreal to report on the failure of a plan to rescue Confederate prisoners at Sandusky Bay in Ohio. In Canada in 1864, Lincoln assassin John Wilkes Booth, (1838–1865), presented to Confederate officials—including Kane—his plan to kidnap President Lincoln.\n\nIn February 1864, Kane ran the Federal blockade and was soon in Richmond. In 1864, he published a broadside in which he exhorted Marylanders in the Confederate States Army to form their own Maryland militias, rather than serve under the flags of other states. On July 20, 1864, he is reported by the \"Charleston Mercury\" to be \"about to cooperate with our forces then near Baltimore, with 15,000 Maryland recruits.\" On October 8, 1864 he writes again to Davis, offering to recruit Marylanders to form a corps of heavy artillery, a suggestion that was politely declined. In March 1865, he is reported to have been instrumental in acquiring fresh uniforms for Marylanders in the Confederate Army. In the closing days of the war, he is still writing to Jefferson Davis to report on the movement of troops around Danville, Virginia.\n\nThe book Knights' Gold by Jack Myers links George Kane to the Baltimore chapter of the Knights of the Golden Circle (KGC) and the various plots against President Lincoln. Knights' Gold tells the story of 5,000 gold coins found beneath a Baltimore tenement house, later linked to Baltimore's top secessionists prior to the Civil War. Kane was connected to the Civil War-era owners of the treasure house, as well as to John Wilkes Booth, who lived just 4/10th of a mile from the treasure site.\n\nKane entered the tobacco manufacturing business at Danville, VA in late 1865. Returning to Baltimore he was appointed to the \"Jones Falls Commission\" and was elected Sheriff of Baltimore City by the state Democratic Party in the 1873 election.\n\nOn October 27, 1877, Kane was elected Mayor of the City of Baltimore having won the Democratic nomination over Ferdinand C. Latrobe, (1833–1911), (grandson of famed architect Benjamin Henry Latrobe, (1764–1820), son of civic activist, lawyer artist and author John H. B. Latrobe, and nephew of Benjamin Henry Latrobe II, (1806–1878), noted chief engineer and architect, with the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad).\n\nKane was Mayor of Baltimore City but a short time (his then two-year term would have ended November 3, 1879). City Council ordinances receiving his signed approval were not numerous. One appropriated money for repairs to the former Old City Hall on Holliday Street near East Saratoga Street, used 1830–1875, (former Peale Museum built and operated 1813–1830 by the famed Rembrandt Peale, [1778–1860]), and transferred this historic building to the City's Board of School Commissioners for the Baltimore City Public Schools system to be used for school purposes. It soon became the site of Baltimore's first African American (then referred to as \"Colored\"/\"Negro\") in the new racially segregated \"Colored Schools\" established a few years before to the BCPS in 1865. Another Kane-signed ordinance was to give \"Authority to condemn and open Wolfe Street from East Monument Street to North Avenue and Patterson Park Avenue from Oliver Street to North Avenue\" and was granted. A Council resolution to appoint a committee to visit and urge upon the United States Congress the necessity of constructing a new post-office was approved by Mayor Kane and also an ordinance to accept Homewood Park (a part of the present site of Johns Hopkins University—near Homewood Mansion, a Georgian/Federal style of architecture, constructed 1801–1808, formerly of the Carroll family and later William Wyman's \"Wyman Villa\" estates) which was signed April 8, 1878. This ordinance, however, was not carried into effect at that time, as JHU did not move from its newly established \"temporary\" downtown campus on North Howard Street near Little Ross, West Centre and West Monument Streets until after the turn of the century.\n\nColonel George Proctor Kane died, while serving as the Mayor of his home city, on June 23, 1878. His former opponent, Ferdinand C. Latrobe was elected to serve his unexpired term (and began his own long and honored public service career, being elected to seven terms of office and dominating the political life of Baltimore for a quarter-century).\n\n"}
{"id": "51725583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51725583", "title": "Germaine Rouillard", "text": "Germaine Rouillard\n\nGermaine Rouillard (4 August 1888 – 1 September 1946) was a 20th-century French byzantinist specializing in philology.\n\nThe daughter of a wealthy and educated pharmacist of Argenton-sur-Creuse where she spent her childhood, she was well educated in Indre and Paris then was a librarian at the Sorbonne. In 1923 she obtained her State doctorate in literature at the Faculté of Paris. She was never elected a female professor at the Sorbonne but became the first woman to hold a chair, that of Byzantine philology at the École pratique des hautes études where she would make all her academic career. She was specialized in papyrology and Byzantine philology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10434738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10434738", "title": "Havránok", "text": "Havránok\n\nHavránok is an important archaeological site in northern Slovakia. It is on a hill above the Liptovská Mara water reservoir around from the village of Bobrovník, about halfway between Ružomberok and Liptovský Mikuláš in the Liptov region. The archaeologists unearthed a prehistoric Celtic hill fort and a medieval wooden castle in the 1960s, during the construction of the Liptovská Mara dam. Both objects have been partially reconstructed. During the Iron Age and the Roman Era, the shrine of Havránok was an important religious center of the Celts living in Slovakia.\n\nThe Havránok hill fort was an important religious, economic, and political center of the Púchov culture (300 BCE - 180 CE), in which the dominant Celtic tribe of Cotini mingled with the older people of the Lusatian culture. The prosperous oppidum was destroyed along with other Celtic settlements in Slovakia around the beginning of the Common Era either by the Germanic tribe of Quadi or by Dacians.\n\nA medieval wooden castle existed near the remnants of the ancient hill fort from the 11th to 15th century CE.\n\nThe hill fort was a religious center of the Celts living in northern Slovakia. Its wooden shrine was built in the 1st century BCE around an exceptionally high wooden column, probably a totem or a statue. \n\nExcavation of a ritual pit situated near this central cult object revealed bones of at least seven people sacrificed during druidic rituals. The victims were beaten to death, quartered, and in some cases also burnt. Parts of their bodies were subsequently thrown into the pit. A large number of agricultural tools in the vicinity of the pit indicate that human sacrifices may have served to insure a good harvest.\n\nThe shrine also included a number of smaller wooden columns, with burnt offerings (mostly jewels, agricultural products, and animals) buried next to them.\n\nIn addition to the shrine, the reconstructed buildings include a fortified gateway of the hill fort with a part of the stone walls (120-50 BCE), farmstead (300-100 BCE), a pottery kiln (300-100 BCE), and huts from various periods.\n\nIn the Iron Age and the Roman Era, Havránok was surrounded by several Celtic villages. Some of them were inundated by Liptovská Mara reservoir.\n\nThe small medieval castle is also partially reconstructed and the whole area of Havránok is now an open-air museum. The site was proclaimed the national cultural monument in 1967. \n\nThe Celts of Havránok minted their own coins. However, the simple copper coins could not equal the quality of the contemporary silver Biatecs, minted by the Boii in Bratislava.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10429862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10429862", "title": "Heritage Auctions", "text": "Heritage Auctions\n\nHeritage Auctions is an auction house established in 1976 in Dallas, Texas. Heritage is the largest collectibles auctioneer in the world. In 2014, Heritage's total sales exceeded $969 million, a single year record for any collectibles firm. As of January 2015, Heritage had over 850,000 registered online bidders.\n\n"}
{"id": "9070748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9070748", "title": "Internet Archaeology", "text": "Internet Archaeology\n\nInternet Archaeology is an international scholarly journal and one of the first fully peer-reviewed electronic journals for archaeology. It published its first issue in 1996. The journal was part of the eLIb project's electronic journals. The journal is produced and hosted at the Department of Archaeology at the University of York, UK and nominally published by the Council for British Archaeology.\n\n\"Internet Archaeology\"'s first managing Editor was Dr Alan Vince (1996-1999). The journal is currently edited by Judith Winters (since 1999). The journal is co-directed by Prof. Julian Richards (University of York) and Dr Michael Heyworth (Council for British Archaeology) and supported by an Advisory Committee made up from representatives from the Archaeology Data Service, the archaeological commercial sector, and a range of leading international universities.\n\nInternet Archaeology was established with funding from the Jisc's Electronic Libraries (eLib) programme and initially explored a subscription model. In September 2014, the journal's editor Judith Winters announced that the publication had adopted an open access approach and that all past and future content would be freely available.\n\nJournal content makes use of the potential of internet publication to present archaeological research (excavation reports, methodology, analyses, applications of information technology) in ways that could not be achieved in print, such as full colour images, photographs, searchable data sets, visualisations/virtual reality models and interactive mapping. The journal's content is archived by the Archaeology Data Service (ADS).\n"}
{"id": "34911082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34911082", "title": "John Molony", "text": "John Molony\n\nJohn Neylon Molony (15 April 1927 – 16 September 2018) was an Australian historian, academic and author. He was an Emeritus Professor of History at the Australian National University (ANU).\n\nMolony's long academic career with the ANU began in 1964, when he was employed as a Research Assistant in Medieval History in the School of Social Science. He was to go on to become Head of the Department of History and to hold the Manning Clark Chair of Australian History from 1982 until his retirement from the University in 1990. On his retirement, the ANU appointed Molony as an Emeritus Professor of History.\n\nFollowing his retirement from the ANU in 1990, Molony was appointed to the Keith Cameron Professorship of Australian History at University College Dublin. He held this position until 1993.\n\nIn 1993, on his return to Australia, Molony was appointed to the Foundation Research Professorship in History at the Australian Catholic University in Canberra. He left the University in July 1996.\n\nDuring the course of his career, Molony has published a number of scholarly works on subjects as diverse as the encyclical of Pope Leo XIII and Ned Kelly to the bicentennial history of Australia, as well as numerous newspaper and journal articles, chapters in books and literary reviews. Out of all of his published works, Molony said that he believes his 2000 book \"The Native-Born: The First White Australians\" will be judged as his most significant original contribution to the writing of Australian history, stating \"I say this because the native-born had never been given the serious consideration they deserve for their contribution to the making of our nation. More than any other element, including the convict element, they made us what we in large measure remain today.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "1335494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1335494", "title": "Joseph Hormayr, Baron zu Hortenburg", "text": "Joseph Hormayr, Baron zu Hortenburg\n\nJoseph Hormayr, Baron zu Hortenburg (, also known as \"Joseph Freiherr von Hormayr zu Hortenburg\") (20 January 1781 or 1782 – 5 October 1848) was an Austrian and German statesman and historian.\n\nHe was born at Innsbruck. After studying law in his native town, and attaining the rank of captain in the Tirolese Landwehr, the young man, who had the advantage of being the grandson of Joseph von Hormayr (1705–1778), chancellor of Tirol, obtained a post in the foreign office at Vienna (1801), from which he rose in 1803 to be court secretary and, being a near friend of the Archduke Johann of Austria, director of the secret archives of the state and court for thirteen months. In 1803 he married Therese Anderler von Hohenwald.\n\nDuring the insurrection of 1809, by which the Tirolese sought to throw off the Bavarian supremacy confirmed by the treaty of Pressburg, Hormayr was the mainstay of the Austrian party, and assumed the administration of everything (especially the composition of proclamations and pamphlets); but, returning home without the prestige of success, he fell, in spite of the help of the Archduke John, into disfavour both with the emperor Francis II, Holy Roman Emperor and with Prince Metternich, and at length, when in 1813 he tried to stir up a new insurrection in Tirol, he was arrested and imprisoned at Mukachevo.\n\nIn 1816, some amends were made to him by his appointment as imperial historiographer; but so little was he satisfied with the general policy and conduct of the Austrian court that in 1828 he accepted an invitation of King Louis I to the Bavarian capital, where he became ministerial councilor in the department of foreign affairs. \n\nIn 1832 he was appointed Bavarian minister-resident at Hanover, and from 1837 to 1846 he held the same position at Bremen. Together with Count Johann Friedrich von der Decken (1769–1840) he founded the Historical Society of Lower Saxony (Historischer Verein für Niedersachsen). The last two years of his life were spent at Munich as superintendent of the national archives. \n\nHe died in October 1848 of unknown causes, aged 66 or 67. \n\nHormayr's literary activity was closely conditioned by the circumstances of his political career and by the fact that Johannes von Müller (died 1811) was his teacher: while his access to original documents gave value to his treatment of the past, his record or criticism of contemporary events received authority and interest from his personal experience. But his history of the Tirolese rebellion is far from being impartial; for he always liked to put himself into the first place, and the merits of Andreas Hofer and of other leaders are not sufficiently acknowledged. In his later writings he appears as a keen opponent of the policy of the court of Vienna.\n\nThe following are among Hormayr's more important works:\n\nTogether with Mednyanski (1784–1844) he founded the \"Taschenbuch für die vaterländ. Gesch.\" (Vienna, 1811–1848).\n\n"}
{"id": "45063146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45063146", "title": "Jürgen Kuczynski", "text": "Jürgen Kuczynski\n\nJürgen Kuczynski (; 17 September 1904, Elberfeld – 6 August 1997, Berlin) was a German economist and communist. He worked with the US Army during the Second World War while in exile in England, and at the same time served as a spy for the Soviet Union, passing extensive information to them. After the war, he initially returned to Germany on assignment with the US Army. He settled in East Germany, part of the Soviet Union zone of influence, and became one of its leading intellectuals.\n\nBorn in 1904 in Elberfeld (Wuppertal), Germany, Jürgen Kuczynski was the eldest of the six recorded children born into a Jewish family headed by distinguished economist and demographer Robert René Kuczynski and his wife, painter Berta (Gradenwitz) Kuczynski. The children were gifted and the family was prosperous. \n\nJürgen's sister Ursula later became a spy who worked for the Soviet Union. She subsequently became an author, using the name Ruth Werner, by which she is often identified in the sources.\n\nThe family lived in a small villa in the Schlachtensee quarter in the south-west of Berlin. Growing up in a family of left-wing academics, as an adolescent Jürgen Kuczynski met numerous scholars and activists, including the communist leaders Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg.\n\nBetween 1910 and 1916 Kuczynski attended a private school in Berlin-Zehlendorf, before progressing to an academic secondary school in the city. He successfully completed his schooling in 1922 and went on to study at Erlangen, Berlin and Heidelberg. His subjects included Philosophy, Statistics and Political economy. In 1926 he went as a research student to the United States, where he undertook post-graduate studies at Washington, D.C.'s Brookings Institution.\n\nHe returned to Germany in 1929 and settled in Berlin. In 1930 he joined the Communist Party. Between 1930 and 1933 he contributed to the party newspaper, Die Rote Fahne, in its information department and as its Economics Editor, joining the editorial board in 1931. Kuczynski's written output was prodigious: the economic analyses that he produced for the newspaper were also shared directly with the Soviet ambassador.\n\nIn January 1933 the NSDAP (Nazi party) took power and lost little time in setting up a one-party state in Germany. Membership of political parties (other than of the Nazi Party) became illegal, and the ban on political parties was enforced with particular effect in respect of (former) Communist Party members. During the next few years it would also become clear that the strident anti-Semitism which had featured in Nazi rhetoric during their years in opposition would be integrated into government policy. Kuczynski was Jewish. During 1933 many German communists were arrested and imprisoned, while many others left the country to avoid the same fate. Sources indicate that as early as February/March 1933 Kuczynski and his wife discussed following his parents and four of Jürgen's five sisters in emigrating to Britain, but at this point they decided to stay in Germany and participate in anti-fascist resistance. There followed nearly three years of initially legal work that became increasingly illegal as the government's post-democratic agenda was enacted. Kuczynski continued to provide analytical work on economic and social developments in Germany for the benefit of Communist Party national leaderships. These were made available to Soviet institutions, used in Soviet newspapers, and employed in propaganda. He was also active in the Revolutionary Union Opposition (\"Revolutionäre Gewerkschafts Opposition\") movement until it was completely suppressed in 1935. The risk to Kuczynski of being arrested and having his home ransacked by government agencies was pressing and constant. During this period he also traveled to Moscow in 1935. Finally, in January 1936, emigration could be put off no longer and he moved to Britain. Recent scholarship confirms that the timing of his move to London was triggered by instructions received from Moscow.\n\nWithin Britain his contribution to left wing politics included work on the magazine \"Labour Monthly\", an organ not of the British Labour Party but of the Moscow-oriented British Communist Party. His international academic reputation gained him access to British establishment figures including, according to one source, the political maverick (and future prime minister) Winston Churchill. Kuczynski became a natural leader for the German Communists who had sought refuge in the UK from Naziism. He maintained regular contacts with the exiled German Communist Party leadership which, during the second half of the 1930s, was based in Paris; he would meet with them there to exchange ideas.\n\nFor Britain September 1939 marked the outbreak of the Second World War: Kuczynski was one of many German exiles interned as enemy aliens. Internees were permitted to talk to one another and he continued his \"anti-Fascist\" work among his fellow internees. He was released sooner than most of the Germans caught up in this exercise, following high-level USA intervention with the British authorities. At some stage during his time in England, Kuczynski was recruited by the US Intelligence Services as a statistician. He was also, like his eldest sister Ursula, undertaking espionage assignments for the Soviet Union.\n\nKlaus Fuchs, a physicist from Leipzig, was another German Communist exiles who had sought refuge in Britain. Also arrested as an enemy alien at the start of the war, Fuchs was interned on the Isle of Man and then in Canada; he was allowed to return to Britain and was released in 1941. Kuczynski and Fuchs got to know one another, and the economist persuaded the physicist to work for Soviet Intelligence. Kuczynski introduced Fuchs to his sister, who at the time was working for the Soviets under the code name \"Sonya\", and Sonya became Fuchs's commanding officer within the Soviet intelligence hierarchy. Over the next few years, Fuchs and Sonya met regularly in Oxfordshire, where she had moved in order to be closer to her (and Jürgen's) parents (also exiled from Nazi Germany). They had relocated from London at the start of the war. Fuchs was working nearby on some technical challenges associated with developing an atom bomb. The information he passed to the Soviet military via Jürgen's sister \"Sonya\"/Ursula is thought to have accelerated by several years the Soviets' development of atomic weaponry in their military arsenal.\n\nIn June 1943 Kuczynski founded in London the Initiative Committee for the Unification of German Emigration, which led to the formation three months later, on 25 September 1943, of a British section of the Soviet-sponsored National Committee for a Free Germany. He remained a member of the organisation's leadership till his place was taken by Kurt Hager in the summer of 1944.\n\nIn mid-1944 Kuczynski was approached by Joe Gould, a colonel in the US Office for Strategic Services, to help recruit German exiles willing to parachute into Germany for surveillance work. Kuczynski referred Gould to the London branch of the German Communist Party, and German Communist exiles were chosen for the task. (He shared these details with his sister Ursula and therefore with the Soviet Union, in an episode described in Joseph E. Persico's \"Piercing the Reich\".) Based on his recent publications on the German economy, in September 1944 Kuczynski was invited to join the Strategic Bombing Survey; he was given the rank of lieutenant-colonel in the US Army. He shared this analysis with Soviet intelligence.\n\nAt the end of the war, when Kuczynski returned to Germany it was as Lieutenant Colonel in the US army, with a mandate from the Strategic Bombing Survey to get hold of important documentation on German armaments production. It was also in his capacity as a senior US officer that he personally arrested the industrialist Hermann Schmitz in Heidelberg. As the Chief Executive Officer of IG Farben, Schmitz was a high-profile war-crimes suspect at the time.\n\nIn terms of the zones of occupation, as a senior US officer Kuczynski was first based in the American sector of what later became widely known as West Berlin. However, in July 1945 the chief of the Soviet Military Administration in the Soviet occupation zone appointed him as President of the Finance Administration in what later became known as East Germany. Marshal Zhukov was a busy man, and Kuczynski learned of his appointment from the Berlin Radio station while traveling back to London.\n\nIn 1947, the year in which his father died in Oxford, Kuczynski renounced his British citizenship (gained during the war). He intended to make his permanent home in Germany. In 1946 he had been appointed to the teaching chair for Economic History at Berlin University. He was in charge there of the Institute for Economic History until 1956. \n\nOn 30 June 1947 he was elected as the first Chairman of the Society for the Study of Soviet Culture (forerunner of the Society for German–Soviet Friendship), reportedly warning its members, \"He who hates and despises human progress as it is manifested in the Soviet Union is himself odious and contemptible.\" He was removed from this position in 1950, which some attributed to a growth in anti-Semitism in the group around Stalin. Between 1949 and 1958, Kuczynski also sat as a member of the People's Chamber (\"Volkskammer\") which was the country's national legislature.\n\nAt the same time he was one of East Germany's most prominent and productive academics. During his lifetime he published approximately 4,000 pieces of writing. (Sources differ over the estimated total.) In 1955 he was founder and chief of the Economic History Department at the German Academy of Sciences as well as for the Institute of Economic History which was tailored to accommodate and benefit from his talents.\n\nAs he reached and then passed through the age at which many men retire he continued to occupy a range of important advisory posts and memberships. Above all he continued to write prodigiously, and to present himself, especially to younger government critics, as a cheerfully off-beat Marxist thinker. The starting point for his discovery by a new generation of readers was his book published in 1983 entitled \"Dialogue with my great grandson\" (\"Dialog mit meinem Urenkel\")\n\nJürgen Kuczynski married the economist and translator Marguerite Steinfeld. The couple had three recorded children, Thomas, Peter and Madeleine.\n\nThomas, like his father, became a university lecturer and economic historian. Peter, an expert on American civilisation, worked for many years at the Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg.\n\nAs a scion and eldest son from a bookish family, Jürgen Kuczynski inherited many books. The collection went back to the eighteenth century, and he greatly added to it. His \"great grandfather's grandfather\" had been an admirer of Immanuel Kant, and had purchased a number of first editions of the Königsberg philosopher's works. There was also an early edition of the Communist Manifesto (actually \"only\" a pirate edition printed in 1851) which a more recent ancestor had picked up on a trip to Paris. Much of the collection had been left behind (and subsequently lost in the war) when Kuczynski's father, Robert René Kuczynski, had fled to England in the early 1930s, able to rescue \"only\" 20,000 books.\n\nNevertheless, by the time Jürgen Kuczynski died, he had accumulated a vast and valuable private library of approximately 70,000 books and journals. Kuczynski's library was taken over in 2003 by the Berlin Central and Regional Library and is accommodated in the library's historical collection where it is believed to take up \"approximately 100 meters of shelf space\".\n\nKuczynski was frequently identified with Stalinism during the dictator's period in power. After Stalin died, and his successor's \"secret Speech\" denouncing the abusive excesses of the regime became public, Kuczynski was not the only true believer to find himself invited to recant his constant support for Soviet Communism under Stalin.\n\nBut in the academic mind of Jürgen Kuczynski things could never be that simple. \"Stalinism\" embraced the entire body of spiritual and factual developments, over a period of three decades, and outcomes were of course both positive and negative. In the 1950s and 60s Kuczynski openly rejected the newly fashionable denunciation of Stalin as a \"continuation of Stalinism\" (\"Fortsetzung des Stalinismus\"), developing a line of argument that will have appealed to the leadership of the German Democratic Republic. He was never ready to accept that it might be better to mention Stalin less frequently after the latter had fallen into deep disrepute. Viewing the world through his prism of Economic History, Kuczynski highlighted two major achievements under Stalin. Rapid industrialisation had been achieved with the creation of a vast heavy industrial sector across rural Russia, and that had been a necessary precondition for Stalin's second achievement, the defeat of Nazi Germany.\n\nBeyond all that, Stalin had enjoyed the trust of the Soviet people. Kuczynski contended that the personality cult and the speeches provided the people and the soldiers with moral strength. Critically, he noted that Stalin had abused the trust placed in him, because he had imposed brutal dictatorship. The dictator's talents as a propagandist enabled him to impose dogmas and kill off dialectically objective controversy.\n\nAs he would recall in 1983, Stalin's purges touched Kuczynski personally in 1942 when he found himself required not merely to deliver to the news that Duncker's son had been executed, but also to convince the father that Soviet justice never made mistakes. Forty years on, Kucynski said he remembered his conversation with Duncker as one that had caused him much heartache because of the way he had had to underline the infallibility of Stalin's policies \"against his own better judgement\".\n\n\nKuczynski was nominated three times for the Nobel Prize in Economics, though he never actually won it.\n\nIn Berlin's Weißensee quarter, proposals which date back to 2007 to rename the southern part of the as \"Jürgen-Kuczynski-Platz\" have proved controversial with local residents, but proponents have not given up on the idea.\n\nJürgen Kuczynski produced approximately 4,000 published pieces of writing with some sources giving a significantly higher estimate even than that. Some of this output was written jointly with others, and the figure appears to include his contributions to academic and other journals. His own casual estimate was that roughly 100 were books or substantial pamphlets (\"etwa 100 Bücher oder stärkere Broschüren\"). has listed the six most important as follows:\n\n\n\nKuczynski was also a tireless contributor to the weekly arts and politics magazine \"Die Weltbühne\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1503407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1503407", "title": "Kagema", "text": "Kagema\n\nKagema (陰間) is a historical Japanese term for young male prostitutes. \"Kagema\" were often passed off as apprentice kabuki actors (who were themselves often prostitutes on the side) and catered to a mixed male and female clientele. For male clients, the preferred service was anal sex, with the client taking the penetrative role; homosexual fellatio is almost unmentioned in Tokugawa-era documents. The belief that the anus is a center of sexual energy that could be absorbed by the penetrative partner most likely originates within Chinese texts. \"Kagema\" who were not affiliated with an actual kabuki theatre could be hired through male brothels or those teahouses specializing in \"kagema\". Such institutions were known as \"Kagemajaya\" (). \"Kagema\" typically charged more than female prostitutes of equivalent status, and did a healthy trade into the mid-19th century, despite increasing legal restrictions that attempted to contain prostitution (both male and female) in specified urban areas and to dissuade class-spanning relationships, which were viewed as potentially disruptive to traditional social organization.\n\nThis increased interest in \"kagema\" derives in part from the increased presence of samurai-class men within cities. The garrisoning of thousands of male samurai in the major cities in the early 17th century not only brought the male-love tradition of \"nanshoku\" to the common people, but also dramatically shifted the ratio of men to women (peaking at 170 men for every 100 women), which limited the sexual possibilities available to young men and encouraged the spread of \"nanshoku\" among middle class men. \"Kagema\" themselves were immensely popular with the merchant class and wealthy elite of the Edo period. Many such prostitutes, as well as many young kabuki actors, were indentured servants sold as children to the brothel or theatre, typically on a ten-year contract. \"Kagema\" could be presented as young men (\"yarō\"), \"wakashū\" (adolescent boys, about 10–18 years old) or as \"onnagata\" (female impersonators). James Neill argues that the increasing commercialization of homosexuality in the form of \"kagema\" (in addition to increased western influences) assisted in the moral degradation of \"nanshoku\". He argues that rather than representing a form of masculine selflessness, \"nanshoku\" became associated with moral stagnancy caused by urban entertainment districts.\nThis term also appears in modern Japanese homosexual slang.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "405940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405940", "title": "Katzenelnbogen", "text": "Katzenelnbogen\n\nKatzenelnbogen is the name of a castle and small town in the district of Rhein-Lahn-Kreis in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. Katzenelnbogen is the seat of the \"Verbandsgemeinde\" (\"collective municipality\") Katzenelnbogen.\n\nKatzenelnbogen originated as a castle built on a promontory over the river Lahn around 1095. The lords of the castle became important local magnates, acquiring during the centuries some key and highly lucrative customs rights on the Rhine. The Counts of Katzenelnbogen also built Burg Neukatzenelnbogen and Burg Rheinfels on the Rhine. The German family died out in 1479, while the Austrian lineage continued, and the county became disputed between Hesse and Nassau. In 1557, the former finally won, but when Hesse was split due to the testament of Philipp the Magnanimous, Katzenelnbogen was split as well, between Hesse-Darmstadt and the small new secondary principality of Hesse-Rheinfels. When the latter line expired in 1583, its property went to Hesse-Kassel (or Hesse-Cassel), which added the inherited part of Katzenelnbogen to its side-line principality of Hesse-Rotenburg. After the Congress of Vienna, this part of Katzenelnbogen was given to Nassau in exchange for property that had been taken away from it; after the War of 1866, with all Nassau, it became part of Prussia.\n\nIn 1945, Hesse-Darmstadt was united with most of the Prussian province of Hesse-Nassau, which included the former Hesse-Kassel along with Nassau and the formerly Free City of Frankfurt, to form the federal state of Hesse. Thus, Hesse now includes the larger part of former county of Katzenelnbogen. A smaller part of Nassau, including the old castle and village bearing the name of Katzenelnbogen, ended up as part of Rhineland-Palatinate (part of the Rhein-Lahn and Westerwaldkreis districts). One of the titles of the King of the Netherlands (the House of Orange-Nassau) is that of Count of Katzenelnbogen.\n\nHistorians speculated that the name derives from \"Cattimelibocus\", a combination of two words: the ancient Germanic tribal name of the Chatti and \"Melibokus\", a generic Roman name for \"mountains\"., The theory is based on the name Μηλίβοκον (\"Mēlíbokon\") used by Ptolemy specifically for a mountain range farther to the east, either the Harz, the Thuringian Forest, or both. Melibokon in a Latinised form would then be \"Melibocus\" or \"Melibokus\". The fact that the name, in any recognisable form, first appears in medieval documents also suggests that it has no older, i.e. Roman, origin.\n\nIn the history of wine, Katzenelnbogen is famous for the first documentation of Riesling grapes in the world: this was in 1435, when the storage inventory of Count John IV of Katzenelnbogen, a member of the Holy Roman high nobility, lists the purchase of vines of \"Rieslingen\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56479851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56479851", "title": "Kyrillos Katerelos", "text": "Kyrillos Katerelos\n\nKyrillos Katerelos (Kyrillos, Bishop of Abydos; Greek: Επίσκοπος Αβύδου Κύριλλος; French: Cyrille; Russian: Кирилл; Born Evangelos Katerelos Greek: Κατερέλος Ευάγγελος, 21 November 1956, Lamia) is the Eastern Orthodox Christian Bishop of Abydos (Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople). A theologian, church historian, and canonist, he is currently a professor of theology at the University of Athens.\n\nKyrillos completed his undergraduate studies in law, philology, and theology at the University of Athens. He pursued graduate studies in theology in France and Germany, obtaining a Masters degree from the University of Strasbourg (France) and earning a Ph.D from the University of Freiburg (Germany). Moreover, he earned a second Ph.D from the University of Thessaloniki, Greece under the direction of Professor Panteleimon (Rodopoulos), Metropolitan Bishop of Tirolois.\n\nKaterelos is a polyglot, fluent in German, French, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Turkish, and English, in addition to his mother tongue, Modern Greek. He also possesses an advanced mastery of Ancient Greek and Latin.\n\nKaterelos was tonsured a monk in Preveza, Greece. His pastoral ministry began in the Church of Greece, when he was ordained to the diaconate and priesthood by Meletios (Kalamaras), Metropolitan Bishop of Nikopolis and Preveza in 1983. Thereafter, he served the Holy Metropolis of Thebes and Livadeia. He has served parishes in the Metropolis of Germany, where he was instrumental in the construction of Saints Peter and Paul Greek Orthodox Church in Stuttgart. He was elected Bishop of Abydos by the Holy Synod of the Ecumenical Patriarchate on February 7, 2008, and elevated to the episcopacy on February 23, 2008 at the Patriarchal Church of St. George in the Phanar (Istanbul, Turkey). He currently resides in Athens, Greece, where he serves a district of parishes in a pastoral capacity.\n\nKaterelos is a tenured professor of theology at the University of Athens, where he holds a full-time academic chair. Additionally, He served as Dean of the Department of Social Theology from 2007-2009. In 2015, he was visiting Professor of Canon Law at the Holy Cross Greek Orthodox School of Theology in Boston, Massachusetts, where the student body elected him Professor of the Year. In 2016, the Faculty of Theology at Ovidius University of Constanta, Romania awarded him an honorary doctorate.\n\nAs of 2017, Katerelos is President Emeritus of the Society for the Law of Eastern Churches, after serving as its president for the better part of a decade.\n\nKaterelos is an international academic authority. He has written several books and articles. His research interests include Historical Dogmatics, Primacy, Theology of Religions, and Liberation Theology.\n"}
{"id": "32578030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32578030", "title": "List of Interwar military aircraft", "text": "List of Interwar military aircraft\n\nInterwar military aircraft are military aircraft that were developed and used between World War I and World War II, also known as the \"Golden Age of Aviation\".\n\nFor the purposes of this list this is defined as aircraft that entered service into any country's military after the armistice on 11 November 1918 and before the Invasion of Poland on 1 September 1939.\n\nAircraft are listed alphabetically by their country of origin. Civilian aircraft modified for military use are included but those that remained primarily civilian aircraft are not. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8908033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8908033", "title": "List of former airline hubs", "text": "List of former airline hubs\n\nThis is a list of former airline hubs of major passenger airlines.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57892921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57892921", "title": "List of proposed currencies", "text": "List of proposed currencies\n\nThis is a list of proposed currencies. Currencies are listed by their latest significant proposal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13363495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13363495", "title": "Loud Speaker", "text": "Loud Speaker\n\nLoud Speaker is a play by American playwright John Howard Lawson. It was first produced by the New Playwrights' Theatre at the 52nd Street Theatre in New York, opening on March 2 1927. Harry Wagstaff Gribble directed, Mordecai Gorelik designed the sets, Eugene L. Berton composed its music, and Leonard Sillman choreographed its dances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18395745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18395745", "title": "Medicina Plinii", "text": "Medicina Plinii\n\nThe Medicina Plinii or Medical Pliny is an anonymous Latin compilation of medical remedies dating to the early 4th century AD. The excerptor, saying that he speaks from experience, offers the work as a compact resource for travelers in dealing with hucksters who sell worthless drugs at exorbitant prices or with know-nothings only interested in profit. The material is presented in three books in the conventional order \"a capite ad calcem\" (“from head to toe,” in the equivalent English expression), the first dealing with treatments pertaining to the head and throat, the second the torso and lower extremities, and the third systemic ailments, skin diseases, and poisons.\n\nThe book contains more than 1,100 pharmacological recipes, the vast majority of them from the \"Historia naturalis\" of Pliny the Elder. Other sources include Celsus, Scribonius Largus, and Dioscorides. Most of the recipes contain a limited number of ingredients, and in contrast to more expansive and thorough collections such as the \"De medicamentis liber\" of Marcellus Empiricus, precise measurements in \"drachmae\", \"denarii\" or other units are specified for only a few formulations.\n\nPerhaps because Pliny's name was attached to it, the book enjoyed great popularity and influence, with many manuscript versions from the Middle Ages. It was often used as a handbook in monastic infirmaries. \n\nThe collection is also referred to as \"Medicina Plinii Secundi\" or \"Plinii valeriani,\" and its authorship is sometimes noted as “Pseudo-Pliny.” It was a major source for the \"Physica Plinii\", a 5th- or 6th-century medical compilation.\n\nThe ingredients and methods in the \"Medicina Plinii\" are typical of Latin pharmacological handbooks. Materials may be botanical, animal-derived, or metallic; processes include decoction, emulsification, calcination and fermentation. Preparations may be applied topically, or consumed. Magic, perhaps to be compared with faith healing, was a regular feature of the manuals.\n\nFollowing is a prescription for bloodshot eyes:\n\nSeveral treatments are listed for quartan fever (\"quartanis\", probably malaria). The first requires a nail that was used in a crucifixion, which is to be bound to the head with a strip of cloth, or a rope from a cross, then sprinkled with calcined cow manure. In the eight sentences of remedies — involving, among other substances, dill seed, hare's heart, a boy's urine, and a frog boiled in oil, not to mention the capture, ear-clipping, and release of a live mouse — the absence of syntactical transitions makes it less clear than in the work of Marcellus whether a sequence of treatment is meant or a series of alternatives offered. The chapter concludes with a charm and careful instructions to the practitioner:\n\nThe sympathetic magic employed here (tree = person) is similar to arboreal healing charms in Cato the Elder and Marcellus. The name \"Gaius Seius\" (or \"Gaius Lucius\") was the Latin equivalent of John Doe; the patient's name was to be substituted. Magico-medical spells and inscriptions, as on amulets, frequently personify and apostrophize the ailment (here, \"Fever\"). The reference to Solomon is a perhaps unexpected but not unusual reminder of the syncretistic, international character of Hellenistic magic; Solomon is frequently invoked in healing charms or depicted on amulets as driving away or defeating an affliction.\n\nAs Calvert Watkins has pointed out, “magical, carminative medicine was in Indo-European culture and society a manifestation of the power of the spoken word,” and was one of the three modes of healing: surgery, botanical pharmacology, and formulaic magic. As recipients of this tradition, Greek and Roman medical writers offered magical, verbal therapies along with theoretical and empirical approaches. From the perspective of modern medicine, the irrational element can perhaps be overemphasized; many remedies in the \"Medicina Plinii\", such as a topical cream for sores made from bear fat and red clay, or any number of potent herbal preparations, are typical of traditional medicine and contain active ingredients with demonstrated effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "464405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464405", "title": "Nikoloz Janashia", "text": "Nikoloz Janashia\n\nNikoloz (Lasha) Janashia (Georgian: ნიკოლოზ (ლაშა) ჯანაშია) (November 18, 1931 in Tbilisi – September 7, 1982 in Tbilisi) was a famous Georgian historian and public benefactor, PhD in History (1962), associate professor (1966).\n\nJanashia born in Tbilisi, son of a noted Georgian historian Simon Janashia (1900–1947).\n\nIn 1954, Janashia graduated from the faculty of history of the Tbilisi State University.\n\nHe began as a research fellow at the Institute of History and Ethnology of the Georgian Academy of Sciences (GAS) in 1957. After he received his PhD in history in 1962, he came a senior research fellow at GAS, and from 1970 to 1982, he served as a deputy director of its Institute of Manuscripts. He was also hired as an associate professor at Tbilisi State University in 1965, a position he maintained until his death.\n\nJanashia also served as a scientific secretary of the Historical Society of Georgia, a member of the Commission of the source studies of the history of Georgia of the Presidium of GAS.\n\nThe main fields of Janashia's research were the history of Georgia of the 4th-5th centuries, and Georgian and Armenian sources of the history of Georgia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3944595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3944595", "title": "Petrus Comestor", "text": "Petrus Comestor\n\nPetrus Comestor, also known as Pierre le Mangeur – both names, respectively, the Latin and French for \"Peter the Devourer\" (of knowledge) – was a twelfth-century French theological writer and university administrator who died around 1178.\n\nPetrus Comestor was born in Troyes and was a member of the Church of Notre-Dame, referring to himself as \"Presbyter Trecensis\". In approximately 1148 A.D., he became Dean of the Chapter and received a benefice. In 1160, he formed one of the Chapters of Notre-Dame at Paris. He then replaced Eudes (Odon) as ecclesiastical chancellor and took charge of the theological school.\n\nWhile in Paris, Petrus Comestor composed and finished his \"Historia Scholastica\" dedicated to the Bishop of Sens, Guillaume aux Blanches Mains (1169–76). Pope Alexander III ordered the Cardinal Peter of St. Chrysogonus to allow Chancellor Peter to charge a small fee on conferring the license to teach. This authorization was personal. In conversation with Alexander III shortly thereafter, Cardinal Peter of St. Chrysogonus described Petrus as one of the three most cultured men in France.\n\nPetrus’s nickname \"Comestor\" (\"Devourer\") demonstrated the esteem in which his learning was held. He was a bibliophile and prolific author, although much of his work was not published. Some of his unpublished work included commentaries on the Gospels, allegories on Holy Scripture, and a moral commentary on St. Paul.\n\nHis \"Historia Scholastica\" is a kind of sacred history composed for students. The author begins the sacred narrative at the Creation, and continues it to the end of the incidents related in the Acts of the Apostles. All the books of the Bible are contained therein, except those whose nature is purely didactic – the Book of Wisdom, the Psalms, the Prophets, the Epistles, etc. The discourses are abbreviated.\n\nPetrus Comestor borrowed frequently from profane authors, especially Flavius Josephus for the beginning of the Gospels. The text is as though paraphrased in a commentary where all data, cosmological, physical, philosophical, theological, geographical, etc., are found. There are numerous inaccuracies and fables. The work consists of twenty books, and often small \"additions\" supply geographical or etymological appendices at the end of the chapters. This Biblical history met with great success, as witnessed by the large number of manuscripts, by the mention of his name in all the libraries of the Middle Ages, and the lists of classical books for the universities and schools. The quotations and eulogies where the author was named (cf. the canonist Huguccio, about 1190) and its numerous translations, the first written by the Flemish poet Jacob van Maerlant († c. 1288) and finished on March 25, 1271: \"Scolastica in dietschen\" better known as \"Rijmbijbel\", but most of all the \"Bible Historiale\" in French. In the fifteenth century, the work was still in great demand, as can be seen by the editions made before 1500 of the Latin text, or of the French translation. Migne reproduces the Madrid edition of 1699.\n\nThe sermons of Peter Comestor have left us numerous manuscripts, often under different names. However, the complete and continued series has not yet been published. A series of fifty-one sermons was placed wrongly under the name of Peter of Blois and printed among his work. Some believe the work of Hildebert de Mans was also included. The sermon in which the word \"transubstantiation\" occurs, the ninety third (not seventy third), is not Hildebert's but Peter Comestor's; the word however is already found in Roland Bandinelli (the later Pope Alexander III) before 1150.\n\nOther collections, like that of the 114 sermons copied at St. Victor before 1185, are still unpublished. More than twelve manuscripts are in Paris libraries, and all have not yet been unraveled. As a preacher, Peter was subtle and pedantic in his style in keeping with the taste of his time, and of his audience of scholars and professors assembled around the pulpit of the chancellor. The sermons attributed to him during his stay at St. Victor are simple in style, instructive, and natural in tone. Also some verses are attributed to Peter Comestor and a collection of maxims entitled \"Pancrisis\", perhaps that which still exists in a manuscript of Troyes.\n\nHe often referred his surname in his sermons and in his own epitaph, which he allegedly composed. The words included \"Petrus eram ... dictusque comestor, nunc comedor.\" (\"Peter was I... and called the devourer: now I am eaten.\") Afterwards, he withdrew to St. Victor's Abbey, Paris and made a profession of canonical life. Petrus Comestor died in Paris, around 21 October 1178 and was buried at St. Victor's. The necrology of the canons mentions him as \"one of themselves\".\n\n\n\nM. J. Clark, \"The Making of the\" Historia scholastica\", 1150–1200\" (\"Studies and Texts\", 198), Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies, 2016 ()\n"}
{"id": "21844546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21844546", "title": "Princess Maria Anna of Saxony (1799–1832)", "text": "Princess Maria Anna of Saxony (1799–1832)\n\nMarie Anna of Saxony, Grand Duchess of Tuscany (15 November 1799 – 24 March 1832), (full name: Maria Anna Carolina Josepha Vincentia Xaveria Nepomucena Franziska de Paula Franziska de Chantal Johanna Antonia Elisabeth Cunigunde Gertrud Leopoldina), was a princess of Saxony. She became Grand Duchess of Tuscany by her marriage to Leopold II, Grand Duke of Tuscany.\n\nMarie Anna was born in Dresden, one of the seven children of Maximilian of Saxony by his first wife Caroline of Bourbon-Parma.\n\nHer father was a son of Frederick Christian, Elector of Saxony. Her mother was a daughter of Ferdinand, Duke of Parma. Through her mother, Maria Anna was also a direct descendant of Louis XIV of France and William the Conqueror.\n\nDuring her short life she showed an especial interest for ancient paintings and classical poetry, acquiring the \"Liber Interitus\" by Horace for an unknown but extremely high price. She was inspired by Gnostic writings to write a short poet entitled \"Chuchotet d'Archont\", published posthumously. Along with her husband she was the founding patron of L'Istituto Statale della Ss. Annunziata, the first female boarding school in Florence set up to educate aristocratic and noble young ladies. She died in Italy of tuberculosis she passed onto Auguste, her only surviving daughter.\n\nHer husband's granddaughter Archduchess Luise of Austria described Maria Anna as a \"highly nervous girl who was so terrified at the idea of meeting her unknown bridegroom that she refused to leave Dresden unless accompanied by her sister\" Princess Maria Ferdinanda of Saxony. As her sister agreed to travel with her, Maria Anna duly married on 16 November 1817 the future Leopold II, Grand Duke of Tuscany, son of Ferdinand III, Grand Duke of Tuscany and his first wife Princess Luisa of Naples and Sicily. During the celebrations, Ferdinand became attached to Maria Anna's sister, and they were later married. Her sister Maria Ferdinanda thus became Maria Anna's stepmother-in-law.\n\nThey had three children:\n\n\nAfter Maria Anna's death at Pisa in 1832, her husband married Princess Maria Antonia of the Two Sicilies.\n"}
{"id": "12086535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12086535", "title": "Raising of school leaving age", "text": "Raising of school leaving age\n\nThe raising of school leaving age (often shortened to ROSLA) is an act brought into force when the legal age a child is allowed to leave compulsory education increases. In most countries, the school leaving age reflects when young people are seen to be mature enough within their society, but not necessarily when they are old enough to be regarded as an adult.\n\nThere are several reasons why a government may wish to raise the school leaving age. It may be due to a lack of skilled labour in the country, or it may simply be a way of reducing a country's unemployment figures.\n\nIn Brazil, the current school leaving age is 17.\n\nIn Canada, the age in which children are required to attend schools is determined by the provinces. Currently, enrollment in education is compulsory up to the age of 16 in all provinces and territories of Canada, barring Manitoba, New Brunswick and Ontario in which the school-leaving age is 18 unless the student graduates secondary education at an earlier age. In some provinces, early leaving exemptions can be granted under certain circumstances under the age of 16.\n\nIn the United States, as of January 2014, 23 states, Washington, D.C., American Samoa, and Puerto Rico require students to attend school until they are 18 or until they graduate high school. In two of these states, the requirement went into effect in July 2017. There are 11 states that require school attendance until age 17, while 16 states and the Virgin Islands only require schooling until age 16. Those states which have raised their minimum dropout ages above 16 may provide for exceptions with parental consent at ages 16 or 17. Further, most states have clauses allowing for graduation by students who manage to complete all academic requirements early.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe school leaving age was raised from 16 to 18 following a law change on 17 July 2007. The change will be implemented within three years of the law being passed.\n\nThe school leaving age in Belgium is set at 18.\n\nThe statutory minimum school leaving age in France is 16. There are, however, a few specific cases where young people may enter employment before the age of 16, such as employment in the parents’ company, sporadic work or taking up an apprenticeship at 14, to name a few. The apprenticeship option is becoming increasingly popular \n\nThe school leaving age in Germany is essentially set at 18. However, it does differ depending on the school type. For example, those attending a Gymnasium study for their Abitur and so leave at a later age of 18 than those for example attending a Berufsschule (16) or a Hauptschule (also 16).\n\nAlthough the national schools provided free primary education in Ireland from the 1830s, the Powis Commission of 1868-70 recognised a problem of low school attendance. The Education (Ireland) Act 1892 made attendance compulsory from ages 6 to 14 in urban districts, extended to rural districts by the Local Government (Ireland) Act 1898. However, there were many exemptions and enforcement was patchy. The Killanin Committee of 1918–19 documented the flaws in the system. The School Attendance Act, 1926 established a harder minimum of 14 years, controversially retaining a temporary exemption in spring and autumn for children over 12 working on the family farm. This exemption was extended in 1936 and expired in 1940. The 1926 Act also empowered the Minister for Education to raise the school leaving age to 15 or 16 for some or all children; though debated from the 1940s on, this was not invoked until 1972, to raise the age to 15. The Education (Welfare) Act, 2000 raised the age to the current minimum of 16 years, and prohibits under-18s from leaving school until they have completed three years of secondary education (i.e. up to Junior Certificate).\n\nUntil recently in Italy, students could leave school once they reached the age of 14. The compulsory school leaving age was raised to 16 years to bring the country into line with the rest of the EU. The reform of the educational system presently underway in Italy has increased the school leaving age to 18 years. Apprentices below the age of 18 without occupational qualifications are offered the option of completing compulsory education required by Italian law.\n\nSchool leaving age in Netherlands is set at 18.\n\nThe most recent occurrence of the school leaving age being raised in Poland was in 1999. The Polish government overhauled the country's education system, resulting in school attendance being made compulsory up to the age of 18, though there are some non-school alternatives including apprenticeships.\n\nIn Spain, compulsory education is enforced from the age of 6, with their school leaving age set at 16.\n\nThe school leaving age in the UK, particularly in England and Wales, has been raised numerous times. The first act to introduce and enforce compulsory attendance was the Elementary Education Act 1870, with school boards set up to ensure children attended school, although exemptions were made for illness and travelling distance. Since then, the age has been raised several times, most notably to 15 through the Education Act 1944 and to 16 in 1972, along with the addition of so called \"ROSLA Buildings\" built as part of a school expansion scheme to cope with the extra number of students and Middle schools, the latter serving the 8-12 or 9-13 age ranges, though many have since been abolished.\n\nSome 16-year-olds in England and Wales are of compulsory age (those who turn 16 between September and June). Students must remain in school until the last Friday in June in the school year they turn 16 (usually the end of Year 11), however all students academically graduate on 31 August once everyone turns 16 as some students are still 15 throughout July to the end of August.\n\nIn September 2013 the education leaving age was raised to 17, and from September 2015 it was raised to 18. These changes allow that becoming an apprentice, having a full time or part time job to enroll into or going to college are alternatives to school.\n\nRaising the participation age to 18 was first proposed to come into effect with the Education Act 1918. Plans for this were soon dropped when the government needed to cut public spending after World War I, as was the case when attempts were made to raise it in 1944, with cuts in spending after World War II delaying any plans preparing for it.\n\nThe current age which a child can leave compulsory education in the state of New South Wales was raised to 17 in May 2009. The Education Minister Carmel Tebbutt stated \"all the research shows that if students either get their Higher School Certificate or an equivalent vocational qualification, then their employment opportunities in later life are far greater and so is their income-earning capacity.\" She mentions the change to the school leaving age is being combined with more subject options to make sure school remains relevant for all students.\n\nThe state of South Australia also suggested similar proposals in March 2006, saying that their school minimum age should be raised from 16 to 17 by 2008. Independent state MP Bob Such suggests that it may not happen for at least another four years, whilst in the meantime, too many children are leaving school without any qualifications. The age will be raised by law on 1 January 2009 to 17 or 16 if the person is working or training.\n\nTasmania has for decades had their school leaving age set at 16, with a requirement to be participating in education or training until age 17 recently enacted as of 2007 according to the Department of Education.\n\nThe Western Australian government is pushing the minimum school leaving age up from 15 in 2006 to 16 in January 2007 and to 17 in January 2008.\n\nVictoria changed their school leaving age from 15 to 16 in 2006.\n\nThe minimum ages for leaving school (but not necessarily education) are currently the following:\n\nSome states such as Queensland allow for students to leave conventional schooling at 15 if going into full-time employment, obtaining an apprenticeship or completing a tertiary education course at approved institutions (I.e. TAFE) (From 1 January 2006 the Queensland minimum school leaving age was raised from 15 to 16 years or when a student has completed Year 10, whichever comes first.)\n"}
{"id": "20739171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20739171", "title": "Robert Bradford Fox", "text": "Robert Bradford Fox\n\nRobert Bradford Fox (1918–1985) was an anthropologist and leading historian on the prehispanic Philippines.\n\nIn 1958, Fox led a National Museum team in conducting extensive excavations on two sites at Calatagan, Batangas, in what may be considered the first systematic excavation involving the National Museum in the country. His report, published in 1959, was based on artifacts and information derived from 505 graves in two sites known as Kay Tomas and Pulong Bakaw. In the 1960s, by then the head of the Anthropology Division of the National Museum of the Philippines, he led a six-year archaeological research project in Palawan, focusing mainly on the caves and rockshelters of Lipuun Point in the southern part of the island (Fox 1970). Its most outstanding site is the Tabon Cave complex, the large main cave delivered the only Pleistocene human fossils found in the Philippines to date. The fossil finds include a skullcap, jaw bones, teeth and several other fragmented bones. Dubbed as the \"Tabon Man\", the finds represent more than just one individual. Their age has been determined using radiometric dating, giving dates between 16500 ±2000 B.P for the skull cap and 48,000 ±11-10,000 B.P. for a tibia fragment.\n\nFox actively served the National Museum of the Philippines from 1948 to 1975. In 1975, while serving as consultant to the Philippine President on anthropological matters and as Dean of Brent School in Baguio City, Philippines, he suffered a stroke which impaired his speech and right arm, preventing him from pursuing his teaching and research work. Subsequent strokes left him confined to home until his death in 1985. Besides his service with the National Museum, Fox taught at the University of the Philippines and served as Presidential Assistant for National Minorities. An obituary appeared in The Journal of Asian Studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8325156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8325156", "title": "Robert Digges Wimberly Connor", "text": "Robert Digges Wimberly Connor\n\nRobert Digges Wimberly Connor (September 26, 1878 – February 25, 1950) was an American historian and the first Archivist of the United States, 1934-1941. He was born to Henry G. Connor and Kate Whitfield Connor on September 26, 1878, in Wilson, North Carolina. At the time that President Franklin Roosevelt appointed him to head the National Archives, Connor was serving as a professor of history at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, from which he graduated himself in 1899. Connor served as the third president of the Society of American Archivists between 1941-1943.\n\n"}
{"id": "3265610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3265610", "title": "Russell Meiggs", "text": "Russell Meiggs\n\nRussell Meiggs (20 October 1902 – 24 June 1989) was a British ancient historian, perhaps best known for his extensive work on the Roman port city of Ostia.\n\nHe was educated at Christ's Hospital and Keble College, Oxford. He was Fellow and Tutor in Ancient History at Balliol College, Oxford, from 1939 to 1970. During World War II he worked at the Ministry of Supply in the timber section. Meiggs served as Prefect of the College from 1945 until 1969. His eccentricity was legendary. His papers are in the Balliol College library.\n\nHe met his future wife, the historian Pauline Gregg (1909-2006), at the Ministry of Supply; the couple married in 1941.\n\nHe was a periodic visiting professor in the Classics Department at Swarthmore College in the 1970s, where he taught (among other classes) Greece in the Fifth Century (BCE) and Roman Ostia. See Dover in reference 2, below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57303349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57303349", "title": "Sunhild Kleingärtner", "text": "Sunhild Kleingärtner\n\nSunhild Kleingärtner (born 1974) is a German historian and archaeologist, specialising in maritime history and maritime archaeology.\n\nKleingärtner was born in Wolfsburg, and began her studies at the University of Kiel in 1994. Her research focused on prehistoric archaeology, classical archaeology and art history. In 2000 she gained a Master of Arts degree, and thereafter worked as a research assistant at the Kiel Institute of Prehistoric and Protohistoric Archaeology (Institut für Ur- und Frühgeschichte in Kiel), where she took over the management of terrestrial and subaquatic excavations.\nIn 2004 Kleingärtner gained her PhD from the University of Kiel, with a study of the archaeological finds at Hedeby harbour (Title: 'Der Pressmodelfund aus dem Hafen von Haithabu'). The same year, she was a researcher on the Tissø project at the National Museum of Denmark at Copenhagen. Between 2006 and 2012 Kleingärtner was a researcher at the University of Kiel, where she completed her Habilitationsschrift on ‘The Early Phase of Urbanisation in the Early Middle Ages on the Southern Baltic Sea Coast’ (Die frühe Phase der Urbanisierung im Frühmittelalter an der südlichen Ostseeküste).\nIn 2013 Kleingärtner took posts as director of the German Maritime Museum at Bremerhaven and as professor of maritime history and maritime archaeology at the University of Bremen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "130421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130421", "title": "Taft, Oklahoma", "text": "Taft, Oklahoma\n\nTaft is a town in Muskogee County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 250 at the 2010 census, a decline of 28.4 percent from 349 at the 2000 census. The town began as an all-black town on land allotted to Creek Freedmen. It is named for President William Howard Taft.\n\nThis community began as an all-Black town on land allotted to freedmen of the Creek Nation. It was originally named Twine, for William H. Twine, and had a post office by 1902. Twine moved to Muskogee, and the citizens voted to rename the town as Taft, for President William Howard Taft, who was then Secretary of War in the Theodore Roosevelt administration.\n\nEducational and correctional facilities have long been the town's leading employers. These have included: W. T. Vernon School (1908), the Industrial Institute for the Deaf, Blind, and Orphans of the Colored Race (1909), Moton High School, and the State Training School for Negro Girls.\n\nTaft also contains two penitentiaries: Dr. Eddie Warrior Correctional Center, for women, and Jess Dunn Correctional Center, for men.\n\nTaft is located at (35.762595, -95.546046). It is about west of the city of Muskogee. According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , all of it land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 349 people, 136 households, and 87 families residing in the town. The population density was 227.8 people per square mile (88.1/km²). There were 155 housing units at an average density of 101.2 per square mile (39.1/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 85.39% African American, 3.72% White, 1.15% Native American, 0.29% from other races, and 9.46% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.57% of the population.\n\nThere were 136 households out of which 33.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 36.0% were married couples living together, 23.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 35.3% were non-families. 31.6% of all households were made up of individuals and 12.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.57 and the average family size was 3.30.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 35.0% under the age of 18, 7.2% from 18 to 24, 20.1% from 25 to 44, 19.8% from 45 to 64, and 18.1% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females, there were 75.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 65.7 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $18,889, and the median income for a family was $26,500. Males had a median income of $20,417 versus $17,813 for females. The per capita income for the town was $11,278. About 23.0% of families and 33.7% of the population were below the poverty line, including 44.4% of those under age 18 and 18.8% of those age 65 or over.\n\n"}
{"id": "2580264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2580264", "title": "The European Miracle", "text": "The European Miracle\n\nThe European Miracle: Environments, Economies and Geopolitics in the History of Europe and Asia is a book written by Eric Jones in 1981 to refer to the sudden rise of Europe during the late Middle Ages. Ahead of the Islamic and Chinese civilizations, Europe steadily rose since the Early Modern period to a complete domination of world trade and politics that remained unchallenged until the early 20th century.\n\nThis process started with the first European contacts and subsequent colonization of great expanses of the world. The industrial revolution further reinforced it.\n\nJones's book gave rise to the term \"European miracle\". It is closely related to the idea of the Great divergence, which rather than on the origins of the rise of Europe during the Renaissance focuses on the culmination of the process in the 18th century and the subsequent \"imperial century\" of Britain.\n\nJones aims at providing an answer to the question of \"Why did modern states and economies develop first in the peripheral and late-coming culture of Europe?\" Jones attempts to argue a concatenation of various factors, in particular the interplay of natural and economic factors which have worked to Europe's advantage and to the disadvantage of its Asian competitors.\n\nThe European miracle theory purports that because the European family was nuclear, women married late, and had few children, Europe's population was better controlled than the rest of the world, which \"multiplied insensately\" according to Jones. This meant that Europe was not vulnerable to Malthusian Crises and therefore able to form a progressive, capitalist society.\n\nUrbanization is also adduced as a factor. Crucially, these cities were also \"semi-autonomous\", especially the Italian city-states. The growth of banking, accounting and general financial infrastructure in such cities is seen as unique and vital to the rise of Europe.\n\nJones's 1981 study is one of the most influential books dedicated to the question of European exceptionalism. Some historians, in particular of the \"California school\" have felt that Jones has over-stated the degree of difference between Europe and non-European regions on the eve of the Industrial Revolution.\n\nThe attention attracted by the book has also resulted in it being described by American historian Joel Mokyr as \"the whipping boy of those who have resented what they viewed as historiographical triumphalism, eurocentricity, and even racism.\" It has been attacked by thinkers such as James Blaut, Andre Gunder Frank, Kenneth Pomeranz, and John M. Hobson. They accuse Jones of Eurocentrism and \"cultural racism\" (Blaut's term).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6857429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6857429", "title": "Thomas M'Crie the elder", "text": "Thomas M'Crie the elder\n\nThomas M'Crie (sometimes known as Thomas McCree or Maccrae) (November 1772 – 5 August 1835) was a Scottish historian, writer, and preacher born in the town of Duns in November 1772.\n\nThomas M'Crie was born in Duns, the eldest of a family of three daughters and four sons. His father was a manufacturer and merchant in Duns, and lived to witness the literary celebrity of his son, as his death did not occur until 1828. Thomas was educated at the High School in Edinburgh.\n\nHe was nursed in the class of Secession called \"Anti-burghers\" during the time when it still retained much of the primitive earnestness and simplicity of the old days of the covenant. Upon being sent to the parish school, young M'Crie soon became not only an apt scholar, but distinguished for applying the habits of hard work in which he would later employ in his historical and antiquarian research. This progress, however, was somewhat alarming to his cautious father, who saw no reason for impoverishing a whole family to make his first-born a finished scholar. Had these paternal purposes been carried out, perhaps the future biographer of John Knox and Andrew Melville would have become nothing better than a thriving Berwickshire store-keeper, or a prosperous mercantile adventurer in London. But kind relatives interposed, and the boy was allowed to follow his original bent. This he did so effectually that before he had reached the age of fifteen, he was himself able to become a teacher in two country schools successively.\n\nAt the age of 16, Thomas M'Crie enrolled as a student in the University of Edinburgh. His favourite studies at the university were those allied with ethics, philology, and history. In this way his course went on from year to year, his studies being frequently alternated with the laborious work of a schoolmaster, but his mind exhibiting on every occasion a happy combination of student-like diligence. In September 1795, he was licensed to be a preacher by the Associate Presbytery of Kelso; and in this capacity his first public attempts were so acceptable that, little more than a month after being licensed, he received a call from the Associate congregation in Potter Row, Edinburgh, to become their second minister.\n\nA short time after he had entered the work of the ministry, he married Janet Dickson, daughter of a respectable farmer in Swinton, to whom he had long been attached. Their long marriage lasted until the death of his wife some years later.\n\nAt the outset of his ministry, Thomas M'Crie's sermons were distinguished by a careful attention to those requirements of eloquence and rules of oratory, in which he excelled. Indeed, the older brethren seem to have been of the opinion that M'Crie's eloquence and speech was carried to such an undue length that it was in danger of glorifying himself more than the Word of God. He soon appears to have been of the same opinion himself, more especially after a missionary tour through the Orkney Islands, hitherto in a state of grievous spiritual destitution, but now eager to hear the word of life, in whatever form it was proclaimed; and there he saw, in the demeanour of his primitive audiences, the vast importance of the great doctrines of salvation, as compared with those mere human appliances by which it is adorned and recommended. This wholesome conviction brought him back, not, however, with recoil into the opposite extreme, but into that happy medium where the true grandeur of the subject is allowed its full predominance, and where its expression is valued by how much the speaker himself becomes invisible behind his all-important theme.\n\nThis, indeed, is the secret of true pulpit eloquence; an eloquence M'Crie attained after his return from Orkney. The consequence was that his acceptability as a preacher increased, his congregation became more numerous, and a deeper spirit of earnestness was manifested in their general bearing and character.\n\nThe same spirit of disinterested devotedness to his work was also evinced by Mr. M'Crie in trials which some may reckon equally hard to be withstood. Though his flock was numerous, it was chiefly from the humbler classes, so that his income was a small one; and in 1798, the price of provisions rose so high that families of limited means were reduced to near or outright poverty. In this state of things, the congregation of Potter Row adopted the generous resolution of increasing the salary of their minister; but no sooner did he hear of it, than he wrote to them a letter, earnestly dissuading them from the measure. \"The allowance which you promised me,\" he said,\n\n\"when I first came among you as your minister, and which has been always punctually paid, though not so liberal as what may be given to others of the same station in this place, has hitherto been sufficient. From any general knowledge I have of the state of your funds, it is as much as you can be supposed to give, especially considering the burdens under which you labour. The expense of living has indeed been increasing for some time past, but the incomes of trades-people have not increased in proportion; and as the most of you are of that description, I don't consider myself entitled to make any increasing demand upon you.\"\n\nThis kind negation was gratefully received, and inserted in the minute-book of the congregation. Here, however, the disinterestedness of their pastor did not terminate. That period of famine, so universal throughout Britain, and still well remembered in Scotland as \"The Dearth,\" had reached its height in 1800, so that the middle were now transformed into the lower classes, while the lower were little better than paupers. At this crisis the minister stepped forward with a generous proposal; it was that, in consequence of the prevalent poverty, the amount of his stipend should be reduced. The people, however, who were able to appreciate his motives, refused to consent, and thus ended a contest that was equally honourable to both.\n\nAfter this, the life of Mr. M'Crie was fated for some time to be embittered by ecclesiastical controversy. The great subject of religious debate in Scotland has been, since the Reformation, not so much about Christian doctrine as about Christian polity. What is the duty of the state in aiding, upholding, and fortifying the spiritual government of the church? And what is the nature and amount of that deference which the church should render to the state in return? The relationship between these powers was fully established in Scotland by the first and second Books of Discipline, and finally ratified by the \"Westminster Confession of Faith\".\n\nBut toward the close of the last century, the principles of the French revolution, so active in other countries, had also found their entrance into Scotland; and there they menaced not only the civil but also the ecclesiastical authority of the state. This was especially the case in that body called the Secession, to a part of which Mr. M'Crie belonged. The Seceders had caught that Gallican spirit so hostile to kings and rulers, and they now found out that all connection between church and state should cease. Each was to shift for itself as it best could, without the aid or co-operation of the other; while kings and magistrates, instead of being bound by their office to be nursing fathers of the church, were engaged to nothing more, and could claim nothing higher, than what they might effect as mere members and private individuals. In this way the Voluntary principle was recognised as the only earthly stay of the church's dependence, and the party who adopted it thenceforth became, not seceders from the Establishment, but Dissenters. It was thus that they closed and bolted the door against any future reunion with the parent church, let the latter become as reformed and as pure as it might.\n\nIn this painful controversy, Mr. M'Crie was deeply involved, and he took the unpopular side of the question, holding fast by those original standards of the Secession which the majority were so eager to abandon. The result was that numbers and votes prevailed, so that he, and three conscientious brethren of the church who held the same principles with himself, were formally deposed in 1806. The dissidents, under the new name of the Constitutional Associate Presbytery, were thus dispossessed of their churches, but not of their congregations, who still adhered to them. They repaired to new places of worship and continued to exercise their ministry as before. In this way they formed a separate and distinct, though small and unnoticed body, until 1827, when they united themselves with another portion of protesters from the same synod, under the common title of Original Seceders.\n\nDuring the progress of these events, which extended over a course of years, and with which Mr. M'Crie was so vitally connected, their whole bearing of the Original Seceders had a most momentous influence upon M'Crie's future literary labours. They threw his mind back upon the original principles of the Scottish Reformation, and made them the chief subjects of his inquiry; they brought him into close contact with those illustrious characters by whom the Reformation was commenced; and they animated and strengthened that love of religious consistency, and hostility to ecclesiastical tyranny and oppression, that accorded so materially with his original character.\n\nIn the following sentence from one of his letters in 1802 can be glimpsed the man who set at nought the demolition of such things as cathedrals and monasteries when they hindered the erection of a true church, and who was well fitted to become the biographer of him whose stern principle was, \"Pull down the nests and the rooks will flee.\" \"There is something,\" he thus writes,\n\n\"in the modern study of the fine arts, belles-lettres, and mere antiquities, that gives the mind a littleness which totally unfits it for being suitably affected with things truly great in characters eminent for love of religion, liberty, and true learning. To demolish a Gothic arch, break a pane of painted glass, or deface a picture, are with them acts of ferocious sacrilege, not to be atoned for, the perpetrators of which must be ipso facto excommunicated from all civil society, and reckoned henceforth among savages; while to preserve these magnificent trifles, for which they entertain a veneration little less idolatrous than their Popish or Pagan predecessors, they would consign whole nations to ignorance or perdition.\" \n\nSentiments thus inspired, and researches so conducted, were not allowed to lie idle; and accordingly, from 1802 to 1806, he was a contributor to the \"Christian Magazine\", the pages of which he enriched with several valuable historical and biographical sketches. The titles of these sufficiently indicated the nature of his present studies, while their excellence gave promise of what might yet be accomplished. The chief of them were an \"Account of the concluding part of the Life and the Death of that illustrious man, John Knox, the most faithful Restorer of the Church of Scotland\", being a translation from the work of Principal Smeton; a \"Memoir of Mr. John Murray\", minister of Leith and Dunfermline, in the beginning of the 17th century; a \"Sketch of the Progress of the Reformation in Spain, with an account of the Spanish Protestant Martyrs; The Suppression of the Reformation in Spain\"; the \"Life of Dr. Andrew Rivet\", the French Protestant minister; the \"Life of Patrick Hamilton\"; the \"Life of Francis Lambert, of Avignon\"; and the \"Life of Alexander Henderson\".\n\nThe journal in which they appeared was of limited circulation, and its literary merits were little appreciated, so that these admirable articles were scarcely known beyond the small circle of subscribers to the \"Christian Magazine\", most of whom were Seceders.\n\nIn this way, the mind of the author had been imbued with the subject of the Reformation at large; and he had been thus led to study its developments, not only in Scotland, but in Spain, France, and Italy. But in which of these important departments was his first great attempt in historical authorship to be made? Happily, his mind was not out at sea upon this conclusive question, for by the close of 1803 his choice had been decided. It was that of a leal-hearted Scotsman and zealous Covenanter, and on the proposal that had been made to him of writing a separate work instead of unconnected articles, he thus replies:\n\n\"As you have suggested this, I shall use the freedom of mentioning to you a floating idea which has sometimes passed through my mind, without ever assuming the formality of a resolution or design; namely, a selection of lives of Scottish reformers, in some such order as to embrace the most important periods of the history of the Church of Scotland; in which a number of facts which are reckoned too minute and trivial for general history might be brought to bear upon, and occasionally illustrate it. The order, for instance, might be (I write merely from the recollection of the moment), Patrick Hamilton, George Wishart, John Knox, John Craig, Andrew Melvine, Patrick Simpson, Robert Bruce, &c.\" \n\nIt is easy to see how this variety, comprising the chief personages of the first and second great movements of the Scottish Reformation, would finally resolve themselves into John Knox and Andrew Melville, to whom the others were merely subsidiary. With Knox, therefore, he commenced; and the task was not an easy one. Obscure authors had to be discovered, and long-forgotten books resuscitated; contending facts had to be weighed, and contradictory statements reconciled; while a mass of manuscripts, such as might have daunted the most zealous antiquary at a period when Scottish antiquarianism was still in infancy, had to be pored over and deciphered. And all this was to be accomplished, not by the sung Fellow of a college, reposing in learned leisure in the deep shadow of Gothic halls which the sound of the world could not reach, but by one who had the weekly and daily toil of a Scottish Secession minister to interrupt him, as well as its very scanty emoluments to impede his efforts and limit his literary resources.\n\nAnd all this for what? The whole literary world was now united against John Knox, whose very name was the signal for ridicule or execration. The man whose heart was so hard and pitiless, who demolished stately architectures and fair churches from sheer hatred of things grand or beautiful, who shared in, or at least who countenanced, the foulest assassinations of the period, and who had finally imposed upon the land a sour, shrivelled, and soul-stunting creed, under the name of a reformation, which, thanks to Moderatism, the country was now getting rid of. This was he whom M'Crie, under every disadvantage, and at every hazard, was resolved to chronicle and to vindicate.\n\nThe materials for this important work, as may readily be surmised, had been long in accumulating: as for the \"Life\" itself, it appears to have been fairly commenced in 1807, and it was published in 1811. On its appearance, the public was for a while silent: many were doubtless astonished that such a subject should have been chosen at all, while some must have wondered that it could be handled so well. A complete change was to be wrought upon public feeling, and the obloquy of two centuries was to be recanted.\n\nAt length, \"the song began from Jove,\"—for the first keynote was sounded, and the chorus led by no less a journal than the \"Edinburgh Review\", now the great oracle of the world of criticism, while the article itself was written by no less a personage than Francis Jeffrey, the hierophant and Pontifex Maximus of critics. After commencing his critique with an allusion to those distinguished benefactors whose merits the world has been tardy in acknowledging, the reviewer thus continues:\n\n\"Among the many who have suffered by this partiality of fortune, we scarcely know any one to whom harder measure has been dealt, than the eminent person who is the subject of the work before us. In the reformed island of Great Britain no honours now wait on the memory of the greatest of the British reformers; and even among us zealous Presbyterians of the north, the name of Knox, to whom our Presbyterian Church is indebted, not merely for its establishment, but its existence, is oftener remembered for reproach than for veneration; and his apostolic zeal and sanctity, his heroic courage, his learning, talents, and accomplishments, are all coldly forgotten; while a thousand tongues are still ready to pour out their censure or derision of his fierceness, his ambition, and his bigotry. Some part of this injustice we must probably be content to ascribe to the fatality to which we have already made reference; but some part, at least, seems to admit of a better explanation.\" \n\nAfter having stated these palliating circumstances, in which a portion of the general prejudice originated, the critic adds:\n\n\"From these, or from other causes, however, it seems to be undeniable that the prevailing opinion about John Knox, even in this country, has come to be, that he was a fierce and gloomy bigot, equally a foe to polite learning and innocent enjoyment; and that, not satisfied with exposing the abuses of the Romish superstitions, he laboured to substitute for the rational religion and regulated worship of enlightened men, the ardent and un-rectified spirit of vulgar enthusiasm, dashed with dreams of spiritual and political independence, and all the impracticability's of the earthly kingdom of the saints. How unfair, and how marvellously incorrect these representations are, may be learned from the perusal of the book before us – a work which has afforded us more amusement and more instruction than any thing we ever read upon the subject; and which, independent of its theological merits, we do not hesitate to pronounce by far the best piece of history which has appeared since the commencement of our critical career. It is extremely accurate, learned, and concise, and, at the same time, very full of spirit and animation, exhibiting, as it appears to us, a rare union of the patient research and sober judgment which characterize the more laborious class of historians, with the boldness of thinking and force of imagination which is sometimes substituted in their place. It affords us very great pleasure to bear this public testimony to the merits of a writer who has been hitherto unknown, we believe, to the literary world either of this or the neighbouring country; of whom, or of whose existence at least, though residing in the same city with ourselves, it never was our fortune to have heard till his volume was put into our hands; and who, in his first emergence from the humble obscurity in which he has pursued the studies and performed the duties of his profession, has presented the world with a work which may put so many of his contemporaries to the blush, for the big promises they have broken, and the vast opportunities they have neglected.\"\n\nThis was much, coming as it did from the \"Edinburgh Review\", a work that hitherto had been by no means distinguished for its advocacy of Christian principles or love of evangelical piety; and nothing, therefore, was better fitted to arrest the attention of the world in behalf of the volume that had lately appeared. The subject thus discussed in the great northern journal for July 1812, was taken up by its powerful southern rival, and in the \"Quarterly Review\" of July 1813, appeared a critique, in which the reviewers, in their admiration of John Knox, seem to have allowed their well-known devotedness to Episcopacy and Toryism for the time to go to sleep.\n\nAfter expressing their admiration that the Scottish reformer should have found a better biographer than had yet fallen to the lot of even John Calvin and Martin Luther, they thus characterise the literary merits of the work:\n\n\"Compact and vigorous, often coarse, but never affected, without tumour and without verbosity, we can scarcely forbear to wonder by what effort of taste or discrimination the style of Dr. M'Crie has been preserved so nearly unpolluted by the disgusting and circumlocutory nonsense of his contemporaries. Here is no puling about the 'interesting sufferer,' 'the patient saint,' 'the angelic preacher.' Knox is plain Knox, in acting and in suffering always a hero; and his story is told as a hero would wish that it should be told – with simplicity, precision, and force.\" \n\nStill, however, the reviewers could not well get over the old John Knox, the destroyer of cathedrals, the man whose heart was said to be so hard and pitiless that the tears of Queen Mary fell on it as upon cold iron, and in their wrath they administered the following rebuke to the biographer, which, however, he accepted as no small compliment:\n\n\"But of the literal subversion of many noble buildings, which, perhaps unavoidably, took place in the course of this great revolution, Dr. M'Crie permits himself to speak with a savage and sarcastic triumph, which evinces how zealous and practical a helper he would himself have proved in the work of destruction, had he been born in the 16th century. Less, we are persuaded, would then have been heard of Row or Willock, as auxiliaries of Knox, than of M'Crie... Like Knox himself, he has neither a tear nor a sigh for Mary; and we doubt not that, like him, he would have voted to bring the royal adulteress and murderer, for such both esteem her, to the block.\"\n\n\"Is not that great praise?\" says M'Crie, with good humour, while quoting to a friend this portion of the criticism. The other journals followed the lead of their two Titans; and encouraged by the reception of the work, and the high importance it quickly attained, the author commenced a second edition, in which he judiciously availed himself not only of the advice, but in many cases of the harsh censures of his numerous reviewers. The result was that in 1813, he published a second edition of the \"Life of John Knox\", so greatly amplified and improved, as to be almost a new work; and this, in course of time, was translated and published in French, Dutch, and German.\n\nPrevious to the appearance of the second edition, the author had been honoured with the degree of doctor in divinity by the University of Edinburgh, the first instance in which it had ever conferred the title upon a Dissenting minister. This distinction, however, Dr. M'Crie had neither sought nor expected; it was frankly given upon the application of Mr. Blackwood, his publisher, and the chief difficulty lay in persuading the author to allow the initials to be appended to his name in the second edition of the work. His opinion was, that such distinctions were incompatible with the strictness of Presbyterian parity.\n\nA compromise, however, was effected. He could not prevent the world from terming him Doctor, or become deaf when he was thus hailed; but when he went to the church courts he there sought equality with his brethren, and nothing more, and would allow himself to be designated as nothing higher than the Rev. Mr. M'Crie. It would, indeed, have been passing strange if our northern seats of learning had failed to confer their highest honours upon him who had achieved a literary feat so difficult, and achieved it so well. For by one great effort he had rolled back the tide of obloquy under which the most honoured of our national names had been buried so long, and restored it to its proper eminence and lustre. He had enabled Scotsmen to avoid the shame which they and their fathers had felt when that name was mentioned in their hearing, and inspired them with an honest pride in the character of their reformer. He had even carried this success into England, and made John Knox as popular there as he was at first, when he was the friend and assistant of Cranmer, the chaplain of Edward VI, and the solicited but recusant object of an English mitre. But wider and wider still the circle of intelligence upon the character of the Scottish reformer had been expanded, until the pious and reflective of Europe at large were enabled to perceive, and obliged to confess, that the ruthless demolisher of goodly architecture, which every other country had spared, was neither an illiterate Goth nor a ferocious Vandal, but one of those illustrious few of whom history is so justly proud. All this was much, but it was not yet the utmost which Dr. M'Crie had effected. Knox had, as it were, been recalled to life, and sent once more upon his momentous mission. His presence was seen and his voice heard in every district in Scotland. A heedless generation, by whom he was despised or neglected, had been compelled yet again to hear the instructions which he had formerly uttered, and to ponder for themselves how woefully these instructions had been forgot.\n\nIn short, their attention had been irresistibly called to the subject of the Scottish Reformation, and the principles upon which their church had been founded, and to the inquiry as to whether these principles were still in operation, or hastening to become a mere dead letter. And this inquiry was neither unnecessary nor in vain. A death-blow was struck at that Erastianism which had lately become so predominant in the Church of Scotland; and such was the spirit of research among the mouldering records of its long-neglected library, and the ardour with which they were published and diffused, that the former ignorance and indifference could be tolerated no longer. These effects went on from year to year, and their result we know. Scotland is now awake, and the creed which was almost filched from her relaxing hand, is held with as tight a grasp as ever.\n\nThe next literary undertaking, in which we find Dr. M'Crie employed, was a conflict with an antagonist every way worthy of his prowess. The \"Great Unknown\" was now in the ascendant, and as he wrote to amuse, he was sure of the sympathies of at least three-fourths of the community. Such he must have felt when he gave to the world the tale of \"Old Mortality,\" in which the Covenanters were held up to derision, while their sufferings were described as justly merited. All this was enough for the novel-reading public, that was too ignorant to know, and too idle to inquire, and accordingly the statements of Sir Walter Scott, embodied as they were in so attractive a form, were received as veritable history. Nothing was now more common in England, and it may be added in Scotland also, than to hear the martyr-spirit of the days of the covenant laughed at, and its choicest adherents represented as madmen, fanatics, and cut-throats. It was needful that the \"Author of Waverley\" should be met by a fitting antagonist, and this he soon found in the author of the life of John Knox. No two such other men could have been culled from the crowded ranks of British literature -— the one so completely the type of ancient feudalism and Episcopacy in grafted on modern Toryism, and the other of the sturdy independence of the good old Whiggamores, and the Presbyterian devotedness of Drumelog and the Grassmarket.\n\nDr. M'Crie had also the greater right to step forward on this occasion. An elaborate review of \"Old Mortality\" was therefore written, and published in the first three numbers of the \"Christian Instructor\" for the year 1817. It could scarcely have been expected from one so competent to the task as Dr. M'Crie, that it would have been otherwise than a complete historical refutation of the misstatements of the novel, and a successful vindication of the vilified Covenanters. But it was also something more than this in the eyes of Scott and his admirers; for it attacked him with a strength of wit and power of sarcasm that threatened to turn the laugh against himself, and foil him at his own chosen weapon. So at least he felt, and his complaints upon the subject, as well as his attempted defence in the \"Quarterly Review\", bespoke a mind ill at ease about the issue of such a controversy. The result was that the novelist was generally condemned, and that his tale, notwithstanding the popularity which at first attended it, sank in popular estimation, and became one of the least valued of all his admired productions.\n\nThe success, with which the \"Life of Knox\" was attended, would have been sufficient to make most authors repeat the attempt; but, besides this, the task of Dr. M'Crie had already been chosen, of which his first great effort had only been the commencement. The distinguished lights of the Scottish Reformation had long stood arrayed before his view as successively demanding their due commemoration; and after having completed the first and best in the series, the choice of the next was not a matter of difficulty. \"If the love of pure religion, rational liberty, and polite letters,\" he writes, \"forms the basis of national virtue and happiness, I know no individual, after her reformer, from whom Scotland has received greater benefits, and to whom she owes a deeper debt of gratitude and respect, than Andrew Melville.\"\n\nUpon this, therefore, he had been employed for years, and towards the close of 1819 the \"Life of Andrew Melville\" was published. Such was the toil which this work occasioned him, which he was wont to say it had cost him \"a hundred times more labour than the life of Knox.\" This will be apparent when we consider not only the immense quantity of facts which such a narrative involved, but the difficulty of finding them, as they were no longer the broad, distinct, and widely published statements which so largely enter into the history of our first reformers. And yet, though the life of Melville is to the full as well written as that of Knox, and exhibits still greater learning and research, it never attained the same popularity. The cause of this is to be found in the subject itself. After the national hero has crossed the scene, all who follow in his path, be their deeds and merits what they may, must possess an inferior interest. Besides this, Melville was not a reformer from Popery, the common enemy of the Protestant Church, but from Episcopacy; and therefore, while the interest of the event was mainly confined to Presbyterian Scotland, it excited dislike in England, while it awoke scarcely any sympathy in the continental reformed churches. But will the work continue to be thus rated beneath its value?—we scarcely think so. The great question of centuries, the question of the rights of the church in reference to its connection with the state, promises to become more generally felt and more keenly agitated than ever; and in this important controversy, the opinions and example of Andrew Melville are likely to assume their due weight. And where, in this case, will posterity be likely to find a record better written than that of Dr. M'Crie? It may be, that before the present century has closed, his \"Life of Andrew Melville\" will be more widely perused and deeply considered than the author himself could have anticipated.\n\nCalamities and afflictions of various kinds were now at hand to try the temper and purify the patience of the hitherto successful author. The perils by which the principle of church establishment was beset, and the prospect of further division among Christian communities, clouded his spirit with anxious forebodings -— for his was not a temper to rest satisfied that all should be well in his own day. Domestic sorrow was soon added to his public anxieties; for his amiable partner in life, who for the last six years had been an invalid, was removed from him by death in June 1821. Soon afterwards his own health began to fail, in consequence of his intense application to study; and even his eyesight was so impaired with the poring of years over dim and difficult manuscripts, as to threaten total blindness.\n\nCessation from labour and the recreation of travel were judged necessary for his recovery; and accordingly, in the summer of 1822, he made a short tour of two months to the continent, during which his studies were only changed, not suspended, and he returned home considerably invigorated in health and spirits. On his return, a new and soul-inspiring subject quickly brought him into action; it was the cause of Greece, that land so trampled under foot and crushed into the dust by centuries of oppression, but now rising from the dead; the first to attempt the great historical problem, as to whether a whole nation may be capable of a resurrection and a new life after ages of death and burial. But something more than mere historic curiosity was aroused by the event. Sympathy was also kindled throughout our whole island for the sufferings of the Greeks in their new war of independence, so that British swords and British money were freely tendered in their behalf. And not the least or the latest in this good cause was the city of Edinburgh, now rejoicing in the title of \"Modern Athens,\" and prompt, by its brotherly sympathy, to make that title good.\n\nPublic meetings were called for the purpose of raising money for the relief of the inhabitants of Scio, and for the promotion of education in Greece, and on both occasions Dr. M'Crie was enlisted as the advocate of suffering Hellas. He was now to appear before the public in a new phase. Hitherto he had carefully avoided addressing such meetings, while his pulpit oratory was the stern, unadorned, didactic theology of the old school. But eloquent as was the historian of Knox in the closet, and amidst historic details, was he also capable of eloquence in the crowded popular assembly, with a subject so delicate as Greece for his theme? The answer was given in addresses so imbued with the spirit of ancient heroism and Marathonian liberty, so pervaded by the classical tone of Athenian poetry, and so wide in their range, from playful, refined, subtle wit, to the most vehement and subduing appeals of outraged indignant humanity, that the audiences were astonished and electrified.\n\nIt was now evident that, had he so pleased, he might have been among the first of our orators. But hitherto he had been content to be known as a theologian and historian, while he magnanimously left it to others to shine upon the platform; and having now performed his allotted task, he retired, amidst the deep wonderment of his hearers, to the modest seclusion of his study, and the silent labours that awaited him there.\n\nAnd these labours were not pursued remissly. Besides his studies for the pulpit, which he prosecuted with all the diligence of his early days, he continued his researches into the history of the period of the Reformation; and in 1825, he published his edited \"Memoirs of Mr. William Veitch and George Bryson, written by themselves\", narratives which he considered of high importance, as illustrative of the covenanting days of Scotland, and to which he appended biographical sketches and illustrative notes. In 1827 appeared his \"History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation in Italy,\" a work that had formed the subject of his earlier studies, but for many years had been laid aside. It was a most complex and laborious task, as he was obliged to trace the origin, progress, and decline of the Reformation through twenty-five of the Italian states, among which the great movement was divided. Such was the interest of this work, that it was translated into French, German, and Dutch, and inserted by the ecclesiastical tribunal of Rome in the \"Index Expurgatorius\".\n\nIn 1829, he published \"The Progress and Suppression of the Reformation in Spain in the Sixteenth Century,\" a sequel to \"The History of the Reformation in Italy\" during the same period. As a proof of his indefatigable diligence and zeal in the study of history, it may be mentioned here, that to make himself fully acquainted with the two last subjects, he had mastered, in the decline of his days, the Spanish and Italian languages, that he might study the proper authorities from their original sources.\n\nWhile Dr. M'Crie was thus occupied, the bill introduced in 1829 for the emancipation of Roman Catholics from political restrictions, and their admission into places of authority and trust, was passed. It is perhaps unnecessary to add, that one who had studied and written as he had done, was entirely opposed to the measure. He not only thought it unsafe to concede such privileges, in a Protestant country, to men doing homage to a foreign ecclesiastical power and a hostile creed, but he was also of opinion that by such concessions our country abandoned the solemn covenants to which it had pledged itself since the Reformation, and forfeited the privileges which it enjoyed as the head of European Protestantism.\n\nIn the old covenanting spirit, he carried the subject to the pulpit, where it had but too much right to enter, and in his lectures on the book of Ezra, where it could be appropriately introduced, he uttered his prophetic warnings.\n\n\"We have been told from a high quarter,\" he said, \"to avoid such subjects, unless we wish to rekindle the flames of Smithfield, now long forgotten. Long forgotten! where forgotten? In heaven? No. In Britain? God forbid! They may be forgotten at St. Stephen's or Westminster Abbey, but they are not forgotten in Britain. And if ever such a day arrives, the hours of Britain's prosperity have been numbered.\" \n\nHe drew up a petition against the measure, which was signed by 13,150 names, but this, like other petitions of the same kind, was ineffectual. The bill was passed, and silly, duped, disappointed Britain is now ready, like the Roman voter in favour of Coriolanus, to exclaim, \"An' it were to do again -— but no matter!\"\n\nThe career of Dr. M'Crie was now drawing to a termination. His literary labours, especially in the lives of Knox and Melville, combined with his extreme care that every idea which he gave forth to the public, and every sentence in which it was embodied, should be worthy of those important subjects in which he dealt —- all this, connected with the daily and almost hourly avocations of his ministerial office, and the numerous calls that were made upon him, in consequence of his interference with the great public movements of the day, had reduced him to the debility and bodily ailments of \"threescore and ten,\" while as yet he was ten years short of the mark. But his was a mind that had never rested, and that knew not how to rest.\n\nIn 1827, he had enjoyed the satisfaction, after much labour and anxiety, of seeing a union effected between the church party to which he belonged, and the body who had seceded from the Burgher and Antiburgher Synods in 1820, under the name of Protesters; and, in 1830, his anxieties were excited, and his pen employed, in endeavours to promote a union between his own party, now greatly increased, and the Associate Synod of Original Burghers. Many may smile at these divisions as unnecessary and unmeaning, and many may wonder that such a mind as that of Dr. M'Crie should have been so intent in reconciling them. But religious dissension is no triviality, and the bond of Christian unity is worth any sacrifice short of religious principle; and upon this subject, therefore, the conscientious spirit of Dr. M'Crie was as anxious as ever was statesman to combine jarring parties into one, for the accomplishment of some great national and common benefit. While thus employed, a heavy public bereavement visited him with all the weight of a personal affliction; this was the death of the Rev. Dr. Andrew Thomson, who, in the full strength and vigour of his days, suddenly fell down and expired upon the threshold of his home, which he was just about to enter.\n\nBy this event, which occurred on 9 February 1831, Dr. M'Crie was bereaved of a close affectionate intercourse which he had for years enjoyed with a most congenial heart and intellect, and saw himself fated to hold onward in his course, and continue the \"good fight,\" un-cheered by the voice that had so often revived his courage.\n\nAt this time he was living on the south side of Edinburgh at 13 Salisbury Place.\n\nAfter he had rallied from the unexpected blow, Dr. M'Crie was employed in what was called the \"Marrow Controversy,\" which, notwithstanding the uncouth title it bore, had for its object the vindication of the important doctrine of justification by faith against Arminianism. This was followed by the Anti-patronage controversy in 1833, a subject which the Kirk of Scotland had never lost sight of since the time when patronage was first imposed upon it, and which was now fast ripening into such important results as neither friend nor enemy could anticipate.\n\nAs might be expected, Dr. M'Crie was no mere onlooker. He belonged to a body whose conscientious hope was a return to the church of their fathers, when it was loosed from its bonds and purified from its errors; but who saw no prospect of the realisation of that hope until the right of pastoral election was conceded to the people. Upon this question Dr. M'Crie published what proved to be the last work he was to produce as an author, in the form of an anonymous pamphlet, entitled \"What ought the General Assembly to do at the Present Crisis?\" His answer to the question was express and brief: \"Without delay, petition the legislature for the abolition of patronage.\"\n\nThe outcry in Scotland against patronage became so loud that statesmen saw they must be up and doing and a committee of the House of Commons was appointed to hold an inquest upon the alleged grievance. It was natural that the most distinguished of Scotland's ecclesiastical historians should be heard upon the subject, more especially as his testimony was likely to be unbiased either by party feeling or self-interest; and accordingly, besides the many eminent ministers of the Established Church who were summoned before the committee, Dr. M'Crie was called to give his statement upon the effects of ecclesiastical patronage.\n\nHe repaired to London at this authoritative summons, although with reluctance, and underwent two long examinations before the committee, the one on 2 May 1834, the other on 7 May 1834. It was not thus, however, that the question was to be settled; and he returned from London, wondering what would be the result, but comforting himself with the conviction that an over-ruling wisdom predominated over earthly counsels, and that all would be controlled for the best.\n\nAmidst these public cares, and a debility that was daily increasing, Dr. M'Crie now addressed himself in earnest to accomplish what, in all likelihood, would have proved the most laborious of his literary undertakings. It was nothing less than a \"Life of Calvin\", to which his attention had been directed during his studies upon the progress of the Reformation on the continent, and for which he had collected a considerable amount of materials. This, however, was not enough, for he felt that to accomplish such a work in a satisfactory manner, it would be necessary to consult the ancient records of Geneva, a step which his ministerial duties prevented.\n\nHis friends, aware of his wishes on the subject, had offered to send, at their own expense, a qualified person to Geneva to transcribe the required documents; but this kind offer, which was made in 1831, he declined. In 1833, however, his son John, a young man of high talent, who was studying for the church, had repaired with two pupils on a travelling excursion to Geneva, and to him the task was committed of making the necessary extracts upon the subject. The commission could not have been better bestowed. \"John has been so laborious in his researches,\" said the affectionate father, \"and sent me home so many materials, that I found myself shut up to make an attempt, if it were for no other reason than to show that I was not altogether insensible to his exertions.\"\n\nHe felt more and more the growing lassitude that was stealing upon him, and thus wrote, eight months afterwards, about the materials that were pouring in upon him from Geneva: \"I have neither time nor leisure to avail myself of them; and instead of rejoicing, as I used to do, at the sight of such treasures, I rather feel inclined to weep. Yet if I can make nothing of them, some other may.\"\n\nThus he went on until the middle of the following year, his attention to Calvin being in the meantime divided by the great ecclesiastical events that were hastening onward to the disruption of the Church of Scotland. Of the Life of the great Reformer, however, he had already written out, and prepared for the press three ample chapters, in which Calvin's career was traced through the studies of his youth, onward to his adoption of the reformed doctrines, his preface to the \"Institution of the Christian Religion\", and his residence in Geneva. But here the historian's task was to terminate, and terminate most unexpectedly and abruptly.\n\nOn 4 August 1835, he was suddenly taken unwell; a stupor succeeded, from which it was impossible to rouse him; and on the following day he breathed his last, without a groan or struggle, but insensible to the presence of his grieving friends who were assembled round his death-bed. Thus died in his sixty-third year of age. His remains were buried in the western extension of Greyfriars Kirkyard, halfway down the eastern path. A large monument was erected by his congregation, with an inscription commemorative of his worth and their regret. Unfortunately the bronze portrait head of McCrie on the grave has been stolen.\n\nAt his death, he left a widow, for he was twice married, upon whom government, to show their sense of his worth, settled a liberal pension. His children, who were all by his first marriage, consisted of four sons, of whom John, the third, his faithful assistant among the archives of Geneva, died only two years after his father. Besides these, he had one daughter, married to Archibald Meikle, Esq., Flemington.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58235338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58235338", "title": "Timeline of Kurdish history", "text": "Timeline of Kurdish history\n\nThe following is a timeline of Kurdish history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Kurdistan and its predecessor states and entities. To read about the background to these events, see History of the Kurds.\n"}
{"id": "53168095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53168095", "title": "Timeline of the Holocaust", "text": "Timeline of the Holocaust\n\nA timeline of the Holocaust is detailed in the events listed below. Also referred to as the Shoah (in Hebrew), the Holocaust was a genocide in which some six million European Jews were killed by Nazi Germany and its World War II collaborators. About 1.5 million of the victims were children. Two-thirds of the nine million Jews who had resided in Europe were murdered. The following timeline has been compiled from a variety of sources including the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "16926862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16926862", "title": "Villa rustica", "text": "Villa rustica\n\nVilla rustica (countryside villa) was the term used by the ancient Romans to denote a villa set in the open countryside, often as the hub of a large agricultural estate (\"latifundium\"). The adjective \"rusticum\" was used to distinguish it from an urban or resort villa. The \"villa rustica\" would thus serve both as a residence of the landowner and his family (and retainers) and also as a farm management centre. It would often comprise separate buildings to accommodate farm labourers and sheds and barns for animals and crops.\nIn modern British archaeology, a \"villa rustica\" is commonly (and misleadingly) referred to simply as a \"Roman villa\".\n\nThe villa rustica's design differed depending on the architect, but usually it consisted of three parts; the urbana (main house), agricultural center and the rusticana (farm area).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBaden-Württemberg\n\nBavaria\n\nHesse\n\n\nNorthrhine-Westphalia\n\nRheinland-Palatine\n\nSaarland\n\n\n\nAargau\n\nBasel-Landschaft\nGenf\n\nJura\n\nSolothurn\n\nWaadt\n\nZürich\n\n"}
{"id": "24450142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24450142", "title": "Vilmos Nagy de Nagybaczon", "text": "Vilmos Nagy de Nagybaczon\n\nVilmos Nagy de Nagybaczon (Parajd, 30 May 1884 – Piliscsaba, 21 June 1976), was a commanding general of the Royal Hungarian Army (1920–1945), Minister of Defence, a military theorist and historian.\n\n\nVilmos Nagy was born into a family of country nobility of Székely ancestry. His ancestors received their patent of nobility in 1676 from Apafi Mihály I, a ruling prince of Transylvania, and the title of \"Nagybaczoni\" (Transl: \"of Nagybaczon\") refers to his ancestral home in Covasna County, Transylvania.\n\nHe lost his father, \"Nagy Zsigmond\" (Sigmund Nagy), a mining engineer of little means at an early age, and his widowed mother could not provide for the children's education. Thus, with no other options, together with his brother Béla he decided to pursue a military career.\n\nIn 1902, he graduated with honours from the Kun Kollégium high school in Szászváros, and his exemplary record gained him tuition free admittance, with continuing financial support, to the prestigious Ludovica Military Academy.\n\nAfter his graduation in 1905, he elected to serve with the Royal Hungarian Army rather than joining the Imperial Austro-Hungarian Army. This was considered to be a career limiting choice, since there were fewer possibilities for advancement.\n\nHis outstanding service surpassed that of his fellow officers and four years after receiving his first commission, he completed the Imperial War College in Vienna (1909–1912). Thus, in his thirtieth year, he was appointed to the Imperial General Staff with the rank of major.\n\nAs a young Staff officer in World War I, he participated in operations against Serbia, in the battles of the Carpathian front, the breakthrough at Gorlice, and operations in Volhynia.\n\nIn 1919, after the end of the war and collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire,\nhis extensive military experience and expertise was utilized by the Hungarian Red Army of the Hungarian Soviet Republic and he was again assigned to the General Staff with the rank of major.\n\nThe career of Major Vilmos Nagy continued its uninterrupted rise following the collapse of the short lived Socialist Republic, as he was reassigned to the general staff of the newly formed Royal Hungarian Army.\n\nBetween 1927 and 1931, he served as the commanding officer of the 1st Mounted Infantry. This was followed by his appointment as chief adjutant to the Commander in Chief of the military forces. On 1 May 1934, he was promoted to Colonel, and assigned command of the Quartermaster Corps. Then, on 1 May 1937 he was promoted to Brigadier General, and in the following year, was assigned the command of the 1st Mounted Infantry Corps.\n\nFollowing the First Vienna Award concerning Slovakia, he commanded the forces occupying the city of Košice (Hungarian: \"Kassa)\". Within a short while and on a temporary basis, he was assigned to be the Inspector General of the Infantry. Within a year, in March 1940, he was appointed as the commanding officer of the 1st Hungarian Army, and two months later, he was promoted to the rank of Major General.\n\nFollowing the Second Vienna Award, on September 1940, he led the 1st Hungarian Army into the city of Marosvásárhely (Târgu Mureş). His responsibilities included strengthening the borders of the re-conquered territory, and overseeing the distribution of food supplies to the population at large.\n\nIn a completely unexpected move on 31 March 1941, the High Command retired him with the rank of Lieutenant General, and at this point it seemed that the military career of Vilmos Nagy of Nagybaczon has ended.\n\nOn 21 September 1942 the Regent, Miklós Horthy, offered General Nagy the portfolio of the Minister of Defense. In this position, and true to his convictions, Nagy did everything to keep the military out of politics, and struggled to modernize and preserve the remaining Hungarian military stationed at home to prevent the repeat of another debacle which followed the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1918.\n\nPrior to his appointment, the government committed the 2nd Hungarian Army to the Eastern Front, where they eventually met a tragic end by their complete annihilation at Voronezh. While Nagy couldn't bring back the troops from the front, he made every effort to preserve and safeguard the troops back home and ameliorate the conditions of the forced labour battalions. He issued numerous orders for the improvement of their conditions.\n\nThese actions have met with opposition from the officers' corps at the ministry and politicians of the extreme right. His political effectiveness diminished as he sought to curb the military's culture of Antisemitism and the inhumane treatment of the forced labourers. He strenuously objected to the German request of sending Jewish forced labourers to the copper mines at Bor, Serbia, and in February 1943, he opposed acquiescing to the German request of sending Hungarian troops to the Balkans.\n\nDue to his position on these issues, he was viewed as increasingly dangerous by his enemies. He was ridiculed, accused of being a 'Jewish lackey' (\"Zsidóbérenc\"), of being anti-Axis, and was under constant attack by the extreme political right. Seeing that neither Regent Horthy, nor the Prime Minister Kállay were able or willing to defend him, on 8 June 1943, he submitted his resignation.\n\nHe was succeeded by Colonel-In-Chief Lajos Csatay, and the daily press praised the person of the departing minister. On 16 June, the social democratic daily Népszava (\"Voice of the People\") published an exceptionally warm appraisal. Endre Bajcsy-Zsilinszky, in his memoirs on government related matters, he wrote that in his 10 June submission to the Regent, he praised the service of the departing minister. The city of Marosvásárhely named him an honorary citizen but, due to 19 March 1944 occupation of Hungary by the Germans, the ceremony was cancelled.\n\nFrom behind the scenes, Vilmos Nagy continued to support the efforts of those who wished to achieve a separate peace with the Allies. Hungary lay in the direct path of the Nazi armies retreating from the onslaught of the Red Army and, based on past experience, he foresaw the utter destruction to be visited upon the land and the people as the fighting moved ever closer to the borders of Hungary.\n\nThe extreme right was not satisfied with distancing him from a position of power and authority, and after the government's takeover by the fascist Arrow Cross, on 16 November 1944, the gendarmerie (\"csendőrök\") arrested him at his Piliscsaba home. After being held for two days at Hotel Lomnic on Svábhegy, which served as a prison facility of the Arrow Cross, together with his brother Béla and other prisoners, he was transferred to the prison in Sopronköhida.\n\nAs the Red Army approached, the prisoners, under the command of lieutenant colonel Árpád Barcsay of the gendarmes, were transported to Passau Bavaria, then to Pfarrkirchen, and finally force marched to Gschaid. The Ministry of Defense discovered the constantly moving prisoners in Simbach, and their intervention forced the prisoners' transport to the ministry compound in Tann where they were released. From Tann, on Sunday 28 April 1945, together with his brother, he moved to where he found accommodations on a Bavarian farm until the US forces reached them on 1 May.\n\nHe managed to return to Hungary in 1946, and in the initial period of the governing coalition of the various political factions, he participated as a committee member for the assessment of military pensions.\n\nAfter the Communist takeover of 1948, together with many of his peers, he was unjustly attacked, his apartment confiscated, and his pension revoked. He found employment as a gardener and caretaker at the tree nursery of Pilisi Parkerdő gazdaság (), where he tended to the planting and care of seedlings and, later, he found employment as a metalsmith.\n\nAt the beginning of 1950s a singularly unexpected event transpired. He received an invitation to the fiftieth graduation reunion of his high school. The invitation came from his former classmate and fellow graduate, Dr. Petru Groza, who at the time was the President of Romania. Nagy replied that he cannot participate due to his lack of funds and a passport. The President then used his influence with the Hungarian government, and the Secretary of the Hungarian Communist Party, Mátyás Rákosi, was obliged to provide the means to attend the reunion. Further intervention by the President saw the general's pension reinstated.\n\nHe gained a measure of comfort and fulfillment when he was selected in 1965 as the first Hungarian Righteous Among the Nations by the Yad Vashem Institute of Jerusalem. The aging general remained mentally active until his death by spending his time writing, editing, and reading. In 1964, he re-edited his work, \"Végzetes esztendök\" (\"Fateful Years\"), which was originally published in 1947. The long-lived soldier died in Piliscsaba on 21 June 1976, shortly after his ninety-second birthday.\n\nIn addition to his military expertise, Vilmos Nagy of Nagybaczon was also a military theorist and a historian.\n\nBased on his personal and extensive battlefield and General Staff experience, his valuable contributions to our knowledge of the times has been invaluable. His works include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13463268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13463268", "title": "Vladas Drėma", "text": "Vladas Drėma\n\nVladas Drėma (born in Riga on 3 December 1910 – died in Vilnius on 4 January 1995) was one of the most prominent Lithuanian art historians, critics, and art conservation specialists. He is also a known artists. One of the most remembered publications of Vladas Drėma's is \"Dingęs Vilnius\" (\"Lost Vilnius\", published in 1991).\n\nIn 1926–1931 Drėma attended an art studio run by Vytautas Kairiūkštis. After graduating from the Stefan Batory University in 1936, Drėma continued his studies in Warsaw. From 1932 he lectured in various schools. He founded \"Vilnius group\", that involved Lithuanian, Polish and Jewish artists. At first Drėma's works were influenced by cubism and constructivism.\n\nIn 1945 he was invited to become director of Ethnography Museum. Drėma held this position until 1946. He lectured in Vilnius University until 1948 and in Lithuanian Art Institute until 1970. In 1992 Drėma was awarded an honorary degree of Vilnius Academy of Fine Arts. He maintained active and long-term correspondence with Stanisław Lorentz about Vilnius art history, and heritage, that was published in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "10765893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10765893", "title": "Werner Baer", "text": "Werner Baer\n\nWerner Baer (May 6, 1931 – March 31, 2016) was an American economist at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and the Jorge Lemann Professor of Economics. He received his bachelor's degree from Queen's College in 1953, and a Master's and a Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1955 and 1958 respectively. His research centered on Latin America's industrialization and economic development, especially of Import Substitution Industrialization (ISI) and Brazil.\n\nBaer’s research and writing focused primarily on the areas of industrialization, growth and economic development, public policy, inflation, and income distribution and equity.\n\nHe had a distinguished record of scholarly achievement, including such books as Industrialization and Economic Development in Brazil (1965), The Development of the Brazilian Steel Industry (1970) The Brazilian Economy: Its Growth and Development (1979), now in its sixth edition, as well as a lengthy stream of articles on a diverse range of economic and policy issues.\n\nOne of the unique aspects of Baer's work is the link he makes between historical, social, and institutional legacies of the Brazilian past and his direct and ongoing engagement with the most current issues of economic and public policy.\n\nHe served on the editorial boards of the Luso-Brazilian Review, Emerging Markets Review, Economia Aplicada, Latin American Business Review, Revista Latinoamericana de Historica Economica y Social, Revista Paraguaya de Estudios Sociologicos, Latin American Research Review, and World Development.\n\nHe taught at Yale (1961–65), Vanderbilt (1965–74), and the University of Illinois (1974–2016), and he served as a program advisor for the Ford Foundation in Rio de Janeiro from 1967 to 1976. He encouraged large numbers of young people to enter Brazilian studies and recruited many, from both the United States and Brazil, to undertake doctoral studies in economics under his direction.\n\nBaer’s multiple contributions have been widely recognized in Brazil. He received the prestigious Rio Branco Medal from the Brazilian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (December 2000), the Medalha de Honra da Inconfidência from the state of Minas Gerais (1995), and the National Order of the Southern Cross from the government of Brazil (1982).\n\nCarlos Alberto Braga, an economist at The World Bank, notes that not only does Baer’s analysis of Latin American economic development occupy a well-deserved place in the economic literature dedicated to the region but also that he was a highly influential thinker and researcher. This is because he was responsible for establishing one of the largest networks of those interested in the economies of Latin American. His impact on debates about Latin America’s economic experience goes well beyond his writings. Rafael Correa, the current president of Ecuador, and Alexandre Tombini, former president of the Brazilian Central Bank, were advised by Baer during their time at Illinois.\n\nHis book, \"The Brazilian Economy: Growth and Development\", is one of the only comprehensive studies in English of all aspects of Brazil's economic development, and is currently in its 7th edition.\n\nHe served as a visiting lecturer at the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil as well as the New University of Lisbon, Portugal. He also served as an assistant professor at Yale and an instructor at Harvard.\n\nWerner Baer died after a sudden and brief illness on March 31, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "318672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318672", "title": "Whakapapa", "text": "Whakapapa\n\nWhakapapa (), or genealogy, is a fundamental principle in Māori culture. A person reciting their whakapapa proclaims their identity, places themselves in a wider context, and links themselves to land and tribal groupings and the mana of those.\n\nExperts in \"whakapapa\" can trace and recite a lineage not only through the many generations in a linear sense, but also between such generations in a lateral sense.\n\nRaymond Firth, an acclaimed New Zealand economist and anthropologist during the early 20th century, asserted that there are four different levels of Maori kinship terminology that are as follows:\n\nMaori Term Literal Translation Kingroup Term\n\n\"Whanaau\" 'to give birth' extended family\n\n\"Hapuu\" 'pregnancy' ramage\n\n\"Iwi\" 'bones';'people' clan\n\n\"Waka\" 'canoe' phratry\n\nSome scholars have attributed this type of genealogical activity as being tantamount to ancestor worship. Most Māori would probably attribute this to ancestor reverence. Tribes and sub-tribes are mostly named after an ancestor (either male or female): for example, \"Ngati Kahungunu\" means 'descendants of \"Kahungunu\" ' (a famous chief who lived mostly in what is now called the Hawke's Bay region).\n\nMany physiological terms are also genealogical in 'nature'. For example, the terms 'iwi', 'hapu', and 'whānau' (as noted above) can also be translated in order as 'bones', 'pregnant', and 'give birth'. The prize winning Māori author, Keri Hulme, named her best known novel as \"The Bone People\": a title linked directly to the dual meaning of the word 'iwi as both 'bone' and '[tribal] people'.\n\nMost formal orations (or \"whaikorero\") begin with the \"nasal\" expression - \"Tihei Mauriora\"! This is translated as the 'Sneeze of Life'. In effect, the orator (whose 'sneeze' reminds us of a newborn clearing his or her airways to take the first breath of life) is announcing that 'his' speech has now begun, and that his 'airways' are clear enough to give a suitable oration.\n\nWhakapapa is defined as the \"genealogical descent of all living things from the gods to the present time (p. 173). \"Since all living things including rocks and mountains are believed to possess whakapapa, it is further defined as \"a basis for the organisation of knowledge in the respect of the creation and development of all things\" (p. 173).\n\nHence, whakapapa also implies a deep connection to land and the roots of one’s ancestry. In order to trace one’s whakapapa it is essential to identify the location where one’s ancestral heritage began; \"you can’t trace it back any further\". \"Whakapapa links all people back to the land and sea and sky and outer universe, therefore, the obligations of whanaungatanga extend to the physical world and all being in it\" (p. 14).\n\nWhile some family and community health organisations may require details of whakapapa as part of client assessment, it is generally better if whakapapa is disclosed voluntarily by whanau, if they are comfortable with this. Usually details of a client’s whakapapa are not required since sufficient information can be obtained through their iwi identification. Cases where whakapapa may be required include adoption cases or situations where whakapapa information may be of benefit to the client’s health and well-being.\n\nWhakapapa is also believed to determine an individual’s intrinsic tapu. \"Sharing whakapapa enables the identification of obligations...and gaining trust of participants\" (p. 31). Additionally since whakapapa is believed to be \"inextricably linked to the physical gene\" (p. 32) concepts of tapu would still apply. Therefore, it is essential to ensure that appropriate cultural protocols are adhered to.\n\nMisuse of such private and privileged information is of great concern to Māori. While whakapapa information may be disclosed to a \"kaimatai hinengaro\" in confidence, this information may be stored in databases that could be accessed by others. While most health professions are embracing technological advances of data storage, this may be an area of further investigation so that confidential information pertaining to a client’s whakapapa cannot be disclosed to others.\n\nAdditionally, it may be beneficial to find out if the client is comfortable with whakapapa information being stored in ways that have the potential to be disclosed to others. To combat such issues, a Māori Code of Ethics has been suggested. A Māori Code of Ethics may prevent \"the mismanagement or manipulation of either the information or the informants\" (p. 30).\n\nAlthough not rigorously applied in the past, people have to prove whakapapa to become members of the international New Zealand Māori rugby union team, New Zealand Māori rugby league team and New Zealand Māori cricket team to qualify.\n"}
{"id": "17597609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17597609", "title": "Zacharias Rhetor", "text": "Zacharias Rhetor\n\nZacharias of Mytilene (c. 465, Gaza – after 536), also known as Zacharias Scholasticus or Zacharias Rhetor, was a bishop and ecclesiastical historian. \n\nThe life of Zacharias of Mytilene can be reconstructed only from a few scattered reports in contemporary sources (the accounts are also partly conflicting – for example, some Syrian authors have \"Melitene\" instead of \"Mytilene\"). Zacharias was born and raised in a Christian family near Gaza, which hosted a significant school of rhetorics in late antiquity. That was also where he received his initial education. In 485, he travelled to Alexandria, where he studied philosophy for two years. In Alexandria, he was embroiled in a conflict between Christians and Pagans in connection with the Horapollo affair. It was also there he met Severus, who was later to become a notable patriarch of Antioch. Zacharias travelled in 487 to Beirut to study law at its law school. He stayed there, leading a very ascetic life, until 491, but he also made several journeys to different parts of Palestine in search for religious knowledge. He finally moved to Constantinople, where he worked as a lawyer for a long time. Zacharias, who was Miaphysite in Christology, yet not ardently opposing Chalcedonians, seems to have often played with the thought of becoming a monk. He apparently had good contacts with the Imperial court and that probably won him the appointment as Bishop of Mytilene (on Lesbos). His successor is known to have taken the post in 553, setting the terminus ante quem for his death. He was certainly alive in 536, as he took part in the Synod in Constantinople that year.\n\nZacharias composed several works in Greek, among which an ecclesiastical history that was probably completed towards the end of the 5th century. The document, dedicated to Eupraxius, a dignitary, contains valuable historical material and describes the time period from 451 to 491. It was used by Evagrius Scholasticus for his own history.\nZacharias also composed three biographies of Monophysitic clergymen that he had met personally: the above-mentioned Severus, Peter the Iberian and the Egyptian monk Isaiah the Younger. The biographies have been preserved with varying quality. Zacharias also wrote several polemic works, e.g. against the philosopher Ammonius Hermiae and against the Manichaeans.\n\nWhile all original versions of Zacharias's ecclesiastical histories were later lost, a truncated and revised Syriac version was preserved, by an author believed to have been a Monophysite monk from Amida. This anonymous author, who has been commonly known as Pseudo-Zacharias Rhetor, incorporated it in \"Historia Miscellanea\", a 12-book compilation of ecclesiastical histories. Pseudo-Zacharias's edition of Zacharias's ecclesiastical history, constituted books 3-6 in is also usually known as \"Pseudo-Zacharias Rhetor\".\n\nThe first English translation of \"Pseudo-Zacharias Rhetor\" was not published until in 1899 under the title \"The Syriac Chronicle\" by F. J. Hamilton and E. W. Brooks. It was part of a five-volume series, \"Byzantine Texts\", edited by J. B. Bury. A new English translation was published by Liverpool University Press in 2011 under the title \"The Chronicle of Pseudo-Zachariah Rhetor: Church and War in Late Antiquity\". Edited by Geoffrey Greatrex and translated into English by Robert R. Phenix and Cornelia B. Horn, it consists of a translation of books 3-12 of \"Historia Miscellanea\"; a second volume is planned for the translation of books 1-2.\n\n\n\n"}
