{"id": "50341894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50341894", "title": "Advanced electronic signature", "text": "Advanced electronic signature\n\nAn advanced electronic signature (AdES) is an electronic signature that has met the requirements set forth under EU Regulation No 910/2014 (eIDAS-regulation) on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market.\n\neIDAS created standards for the use of electronic signatures so that they could be used in a secure manner when conducting business online, such as an electronic fund transfer or official business across borders with EU Member States. The advanced electronic signature is one of the standards outlined in eIDAS.\n\nFor an electronic signature to be considered as advanced, it must meet several requirements:\n\nAdvanced electronic signatures that are compliant with eIDAS may be technically implemented through the Ades Baseline Profiles that have been developed by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI):\n\nThe implementation of advanced electronic signatures under the specification of eIDAS serves several purposes. Business and public services processes, even those that go across borders can be safely expedited by using electronic signing. With eIDAS, EU States are required to establish “points of single contact” (PSCs) for trust services that ensure the electronic ID schemes can be used in public sector transactions that occur cross-borders, including access to healthcare information across borders.\n\nIn the past, when signing a document or message, the signatory would sign it and then return it to its intended recipient through the postal service, via facsimile service, or by scanning and attaching it to an email. This could lead to delays and of course, the possibility that signatures could be forged and documents altered, especially when multiple signatures from different people located in different locations are required. The process of using an advanced electronic signature saves time, is legally binding and assures a high level of technical security.\n\nFollowing Article 25 (1) of the eIDAS regulation, an advanced electronic signature shall \"not be denied legal effect and admissibility as evidence in legal proceedings\". However it will reach a higher probative value when enhanced to the level of a qualified electronic signature. By adding a certificate that has been issued by a qualified trust service provider that attests to the authenticity of the qualified signature, the upgraded advanced signature then carries according to Article 24 (2) of the eIDAS Regulation the same legal value as a handwritten signature. However, this is only regulated in the European Union and similarly through ZertES in Switzerland. A qualified electronic signature is not defined in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "24927519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24927519", "title": "British Frontier Service", "text": "British Frontier Service\n\nThe British Frontier Service was a British government organisation that was responsible for border monitoring duties in West Germany between 1946 and 1991. Its personnel served on Germany's international borders with Denmark, the Netherlands and Belgium before focusing on the inner German border. It was charged with a number of tasks, including assisting the movements of British military personnel and their dependents, monitoring the border regions and helping to defuse border incidents. It was ultimately disbanded following German reunification.\n\nFollowing the end of the Second World War, British troops in Germany were deployed along the international borders of the British zone of Allied-occupied Germany to control the flow of refugees and prevent smuggling. They were replaced in 1946 by the Frontier Control Service, a civilian frontier force administered by the British Control Commission of Germany. It went through a series of names thereafter: the Frontier Control Service from 1946–49; the Frontier Inspection Service, 1949–55; and British Frontier Service, 1955-91.\n\nMany of its members were recruited from the Royal Marines, the Royal Navy and the British Army. Its first director was a Royal Navy officer, Captain Guy Maund DSO. It was under his leadership that the BFS adopted its distinctive naval-style uniform with silver rank badges. Its personnel were given honorary Army ranks, with its director given the rank of full colonel.\n\nThe BFS initially had 300 personnel, augmented by remaining personnel from the German customs service. Former German customs officials were released from prisoner of war camps and put to work carrying out day-to-day border control duties, while the BFS concentrated on preventing illegal activities such as smuggling and unauthorised border crossings. For the first few years after the war it concentrated almost entirely on Germany's borders with Belgium, Denmark and the Netherlands, leaving the border of the Soviet occupation zone almost entirely unguarded. This changed after the Berlin Blockade of 1948-49 and the increasing flow of illegal imports from the Soviet zone. The BFS and the newly established West German \"Zollgrenzdienst\" (Federal Customs Service) were deployed along what became the inner German border from Lübeck down to Göttingen, a distance of some .\n\nIn 1955 the British Control Commission was wound up as sovereignty was passed from the Western Allies to the West German state. The BFS underwent drastic changes, passing from the jurisdiction of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office to that of the War Office, later the Ministry of Defence (although it remained a civilian organisation). Its staff was reduced from around 300 personnel to 38, and it lost many of its executive responsibilities. A limited number of its staff worked on the eastern border but the majority worked at transit points as liaison with the German border authorities. They assisted with the movements of members of the British armed forces in Germany and their dependents, under the Status of Forces Agreement with West Germany. The headquarters of the BFS was moved to Wahner Heide near Bonn – now Cologne Bonn Airport – where it was administered as part of the Joint Services Liaison Organization. Its operations along the eastern border were administered from a regional headquarters at Hannover. Additional regional liaison offices were located in Berlin, Düsseldorf and Helmstedt, near the main border crossing (Checkpoint Alpha) on the Hamburg-Berlin autobahn.\n\nThe BFS went through further changes in 1967, when it was established as a permanent Civil Service organisation. Its role changed again in 1972 following the signature of the Treaty on the Basis of Relations between East and West Germany, when the two states agreed to recognise each other. The British government took the view at this point that the United Kingdom was no longer responsible for the inner German border and considered eliminating the BFS altogether. However, it was decided that it would continue to have a very limited role on the border, chiefly involving conducting liaison with the German border agencies. It was reduced to 16 members with only the British Frontier Post at Helmstedt, manned by four personnel, remaining open. The BFS was finally dissolved on 28 May 1991, following the reunification of Germany.\n\nBetween 1955 and 1972, the BFS played a front-line role in managing tensions on the inner German border. Its officers were called to the scene of border incidents or unusual activity to defuse disputes and provide an independent British view of situations. They dealt with a wide variety of incidents ranging from escapes over the East German border fortifications, to intruding East German border markers, or attempts to block West German boats along the disputed river border on the Elbe. West German customs or Bundesgrenzschutz (BGS Federal Border Protection) personnel would deal directly with the East Germans with the BFS officer providing advice.\n\nThe BFS also assisted the British Army in carrying out patrols of the inner German border. Its personnel were a familiar sight, guiding units of the British Army of the Rhine (BAOR) along the southern sector of the British zone from Lauenburg to Schmidekopf. Although the BAOR did not patrol the much shorter northern sector from Lübeck to Lauenburg, the BFS filled the gap with occasional \"visits\". It presented a somewhat odd appearance, described by \"The Times\" as \"delightful, perhaps unique\":\n\nSeveral BFS personnel were honoured for their work. Jack Owen, a BFS officer and former Royal Marine, was awarded an MBE in 1963 following a tense incident at Bohldamm near Lüchow in Lower Saxony. The border ran along a stream, but its precise location was disputed. The West Germans considered the far side of the stream to be the location of the border, while the East Germans regarded the border as lying in the middle of the stream. An overgrown cobbled footbridge crossed the stream but was blocked by the East Germans with a movable barbed wire trestle barrier situated at the far end of the bridge. One day in 1962 the East Germans moved the barrier to the middle of the bridge, despite protests from West German border guards and customs officials. The situation escalated when the East Germans warned that they would shoot anyone who touched the trestle and backed up their warning by emplacing machine guns and armoured cars on their side of the stream. The West Germans called up a BFS platoon and a British Army section to back them up. Owen called the East Germans' bluff by walking onto the bridge with two British soldiers and carrying the trestle back to the eastern side of the stream. He then stood by it for the next eight hours to make sure that it would not be moved again.\n\nTommy Jones, a former member of the Royal Military Police special investigations branch, became well known as a guide for Western journalists and visitors to the inner German border. Although he escorted around 4,000-5,000 visitors a year along the border, he averred that he \"never [got] frustrated. It is important to show people this border. It is impossible to imagine it or to describe it.\" Jones arrived in Germany in 1945 during the British advance to the Elbe in the closing months of the Second World War and remained there for the next 45 years. He joined the BFS in 1960, moved to Helmstedt in 1974 and became the head of the BFS in 1983, by which time it had only four personnel left. In January 1990, he was awarded an MBE and retired to become a Chelsea Pensioner. His departure was noted not just by the West Germans with whom he had worked for so long, but by the East German border guards as well; as he put it, \"For 16 years at Helmstedt, the East German border guards never spoke to me... All they did was take pictures of me from behind bushes. When the border was opened, suddenly the East German guards decided they wanted to try and shake my hand. But I didn't feel like shaking their hands.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25644172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25644172", "title": "California Association of Student Councils", "text": "California Association of Student Councils\n\nThe California Association of Student Councils (CASC) is a non-profit, student-led youth leadership and advocacy organization.\n\nThe California Association of Student Councils is a youth training/mentoring organization that also lobbies for youth-oriented legislation. It runs over sixty student leadership training events a year training students from elementary, middle, and high school students in leadership and team-building skills. All trainings are peer-to-peer, and thus all directors and counselors at the conferences are students.\n\nIn addition to leadership trainings, CASC serves as an advocate for youth in Sacramento, lobbying continuously through the year. CASC holds two conferences each year at which students create formal proposals to the California State Board of Education and California State Senate or California State Assembly Education Committees. \n\nCASC programs are hands-on experiences that demonstrate the power of peer-to-peer teaching, with students as mentors and instructors. CASC works toward the principles on which it was founded in 1947: “to give students actual experiences and involvement in decision making and democratic experiences.” Their student officers, trainers and alumni are consistently recognized for their professionalism, competence, and adaptability.\n\n“The mission of the California Association of Student Councils is to provide leadership development for elementary, middle and high school students that emphasize authenticity, ethics, and collaborative decision-making through peer counseling. Our primary focus is the training of students, advisors and organizations in California and across the world. CASC enhances the quality of education by involving students in activities and programs outside the classroom that build citizenship and encourage self-esteem. CASC serves as an advocate for youth, provides a channel for student views, and empowers youth to take action.\"\n\n\"The purpose of the California Association of Student Councils is to improve the quality of life in the world by developing skilled, ethical and sensitive leaders of diverse backgrounds and cultures.\"\n\nMost of the work done by the California Association of Student Councils is completed by the members of the State Council. The State Council is made up entirely of high school students that are appointed in the spring of each year to serve a one-year term. The positions are:\nEach region has its respective president who appoints a cabinet from students between the grades of 9-12 from that region. The positions available on Region Cabinet include but are not limited to:\n\nThe CASC Board of Directors is composed of eleven adults and five students elected by the State Council. Students and adults on the board share equal permissions and responsibilities as board members.\n\nThe current members of the board include:\n\nCASC summer leadership conferences bring together students and advisors at multi-day training conferences held on college campuses such as University of California, Berkeley and University of California, Santa Barbara. All of the curriculum is taught through hands-on activities in small groups led by high school and college students. Skills are taught in areas including.\n\nOne-day workshops throughout the state focus on individual and group skill development. Working with trained high school and college students who serve as role models, students meet in small groups with peers from other local schools to practice meeting and presentation skills and to engage in collaborative problem solving exercises.\n\nStudents (sophomores and older) who have successfully completed the CASC basic high school summer leadership program become eligible to attend a three-day staff development program. Upon completing the training they may be recommended to serve as a trainer at any CASC conference. Additionally, selected college-age CASC trainers are invited to attend Advanced Skills Training. Trainers of trainers and international staff are selected from this group.\n\nThis two-day workshop focuses on the role of a Student Council/ASB, structure, selection and training of members, team-building techniques, evaluation of performance, coaching and feedback. Participants have an opportunity to share best practices as well as address current challenges.\n\nThis two-day program is focused on curriculum for training current and aspiring student leaders.\nTopics covered include: units of study, principles of design, integration of lessons with event planning, and grading. Participants develop skills in meeting planning and management, situational leadership, team development, and project planning. Time is allocated for exploring resources.\n\nAt this multi day conference, students from all over the state learn about education policy and have an opportunity to influence it. The SABE conference has been held annually since 1966. SABE proposals are presented to the State Board of Education. SABE is run by the Education Policy Director\n\nAdditionally, delegates at the SABE conference elect the top six of twelve candidates for the student position on the State Board of Education. These six are then sent to the State Board to be narrowed down the top three.\n\nHigh school and middle school students throughout California gather in Sacramento to discuss educational issues of common concern and prepare proposals for the Assembly Education Committee and the Senate Education Committee. SABLE is run by the Education Policy Director.\n\nHeld during the school year, this multi-day conference for high school and middle school students attracts participants throughout the state. Participants are trained in skills including project planning, meeting skills, resolving conflict, lobbying, collaborating with adults, attracting media attention and surveying student opinion. Opportunities for action at school and in the community are explored in elective workshops. YASC is run by the YASC Director on the State Council\n\nThese one-day interactive workshops bring together serving and aspiring student board members together with adult board members and consultants. The program focuses on training in areas necessary for these students to serve effectively, including responsibilities and roles, best practices and techniques for surveying students.\n\nIn cooperation with the Western Association of Schools and Colleges, CASC selects students to be members of school accreditation teams.\n\nCASC designs full school leadership and personal development programs, differentiated instruction opportunities, conflict management training, meeting skills, workshops and team building for individual student councils, schools, districts, departments, and organizations. Custom Designed Programs are called Special Projects, and are run by the Special Projects Director.\n\nCASC 2020 is CASC’s vision for the ideal state of education in California by the year 2020. This program rests on four main goals:\nWith these four goals, CASC has created benchmarks and guidelines for schools to work to accomplish these goals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43135204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43135204", "title": "Canadian Unitarian Universalist Women's Association", "text": "Canadian Unitarian Universalist Women's Association\n\nCanadian Unitarian Universalist Women's Association (CUUWA) (established in May 2011) is a Canadian Unitarian Universalist women's rights organization that is an associate member of the Canadian Unitarian Council. The association wants to raise awareness for women and close the gender gap. For example, research has shown that in businesses, women have less than one-fifth of a chance to get promoted and move up the company.\n\nBefore the official Canadian Unitarian Universalist Women's Association was established, it was originally called the Canadian Unitarian Universalist Women's Federation that wanted to raise awareness for women's education, human rights, and equality of income. In doing so, they got participants from Prairie Women's Gathering and the Vancouver Island Women's retreat which finally got them a pre-conference workshop in Victoria. At this meeting, many women were attracted to this organization and many of Canadian women were there. From there, they changed the name to Canadian Unitarian Universalist Women's Association and is officially the first national women movement in Canada.\n\nThe Canadian Unitarian Universalist Women's Association main mission is to raise awareness of women history. In the past years, women weren't acknowledged for their works that they contributed to society. The Association aims to change the attitudes society placed on women and inform our society of the issues that women have dealt with on a national and international level. Women have always faced a gender wage gap from men and deserves to get paid equally for their contributions. In addition, the Canadian Unitarian Universalist Women's Association wants to circulate educational learning materials that highlight their work to prove to others of their contributions. Women deserve to be equal to any other human being and deserve more recognition.\n\nThe women's movement hopes to have access to the women members in the congregation of their contributions, roles, and responsibilities that are affiliated with the Unitarian Universalist in Canada. In addition, the movement hopes to achieve other women individuals to step up and join this organization. The Canadian Unitarian Universalist Women's Association are hosting annual meetings located in Host City or the Canadian Unitarian Council Annual Conference and hopes others will come out to support it.\n\n"}
{"id": "55817023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55817023", "title": "Chris Sidoti", "text": "Chris Sidoti\n\nChris Sidoti is an Australian expert on international human rights law, a lawyer and advocate. He is a former Human Rights Commissioner, and a former commissioner of the Australian Law Reform Commission, and has held a range of other distinguished posts.\n\nChris Sidoti was the Foundation Secretary of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission (since renamed the Australian Human Rights Commission) in 1987. In November 2016, Sidoti gave a speech for the Commission reflecting on thirty years of achievements and lessons. He later served as Australian Human Rights Commissioner from 1995 to 2000, and a commissioner of the Australian Law Reform Commission from 1992-1995. Sidoti also played a role in the establishment of the Asia Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions. In 2008, Sidoti was appointed to the position of chairman of the New South Wales Casino Control Authority and subsequently the Casino, Liquor and Gaming Authority. In 2007-2008, Chris Sidoti held the independent position of chair of the Northern Ireland Bill of Rights Forum. He formerly held a position as National Secretary of the now dismantled Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace. Chris Sidoti was appointed to the Board of Trustees of the UN Voluntary Fund for Technical Cooperation in the Field of Human Rights in 2011.\n\nIn non-governmental roles, Sidoti served as Director of the International Service for Human Rights from 2003 to 2007 and later served on the board of the organization. He has also worked for the Human Rights Council of Australia and the Australian Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace. Sidoti is also a drafting committee member and signatory of the Yogyakarta Principles plus 10, on the application of international human rights law in relation to sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression and sex characteristics.\n\nChris Sidoti also holds a number of academic positions. He serves as adjunct professor at the University of Western Sydney, Griffith University, University of the Sunshine Coast, and the Australian Catholic University. He is a Fellow of the Castan Centre for Human Rights Law at Monash University, and an Affiliate at the Sydney Centre for International Law at the University of Sydney.\n"}
{"id": "52770134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52770134", "title": "Collateral freedom", "text": "Collateral freedom\n\nCollateral freedom is an anti-censorship strategy that attempts to make it economically prohibitive for censors to block content on the Internet. This is achieved by hosting content on cloud services that are considered by censors to be \"too important to block,\" and then using encryption to prevent censors from identifying requests for censored information that is hosted among other content, forcing censors to either allow access to the censored information or take down entire services.\n\n"}
{"id": "33312697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33312697", "title": "Concordis international", "text": "Concordis international\n\nConcordis International is a non-profit organisation (UK Charity Commission Number 1105697) that works alongside and in support of official peace processes, where they exist, to improve the potential for lasting peace. The organisation has headquarters in London, and offices in Cambridge, and country-offices in Juba more widely in South Sudan and Nouakchott, Mauritania. Concordis' historical roots are in peacebuilding work by the Newick Park Initiative in South Africa (1986–91) and in post-genocide Rwanda (1994-7). Much of Concordis’ work now focuses on Sudan and South Sudan,where, initially as Relationships Foundation International, the organisation have been working since 1999. Concordis remains actively engaged there both nationally and with respect to regional conflicts, including Darfur. There is an emphasis on gender awareness within programmes and women from Darfur and elsewhere in Sudan have played a prominent role in the process.\n\nConcordis International’s interventions are based on unofficial dialogue between and across different levels of society on different sides engaged in or affected by violent conflicts. The dialogue focuses on the issues surrounding the causes and consequences of conflicts and is informed by expert contributions and research. The aim of this is to:\nConcordis’ work is guided by:\n\nConcordis International’s work in Sudan and South Sudan has aimed to facilitate informal dialogue, providing a forum where North and South Sudanese representatives can work together on key issues. Grounded in ten previous years of sustained peacebuilding engagement, the 2-year Sudanese Peace-Building Initiative (PBI), primarily funded by the European Union, lasted from January 2009 to December 2010 and, in cooperation with a number of Sudanese partners, increasingly focused on the development of cooperative, secure and economically viable relations across Sudan’s North-South border. With further funding from the EU and Norway, this border-related work continues.\nConcordis has recently started work on a new project called Cultural Healing, based on a concept developed by British-Sudanese filmmaker Taghreed Elsanhouri and funded by the European Union. Work began for this project in 2010 and is scheduled to end in March 2013. The programme is inspired by a successful EU co-funded programme in Afghanistan which has contributed towards the development of an independent media sector. The programme involves training people from a wide range of backgrounds within Sudan and South Sudan to make films that express their own culture and traditions. It will be jointly executed with a local partner Nasaq. \nConcordis’ work on Darfur started soon after the Darfur conflict broke out in 2003. A series of inclusive consultations were held in 2004-5 on land use and tenure, on cultural, political and economic marginalisation of the region and also on enabling the sustainable and safe return as well as integration of the displaced. After the signature of the Darfur Peace Accord in 2006, Concordis worked with senior Darfurians, the African Union and others to develop Darfurian unity as a foundation for a lasting settlement.\nConcordis has also worked in partnership with the Sudan Inter-Religious Council (SIRC) to develop the capacity of Sudanese religious leaders of different faiths, from across the country, to cooperate in promoting and facilitating peace and reconciliation.\n\nConcordis International's work in Kenya focuses on policy-makers from the national to the community level and aims to encourage dialogue on land reform as Kenya starts to implement a New Land Policy. Consultations to promote reconciliation and reduce the threat of renewed violent conflict in Kenya are held in partnership with the Sychar Centre and the Institute for the Study of African Realities, both in Nairobi.To date, three such consultations have been facilitated in Nairobi since 2008.\n\nConcordis conducted background research and an assessment of conflict in Afghanistan in 2003 prior to a visit there in January 2004. Concordis has maintained a modest level of research and networking on Afghanistan for several years and has been involved in the Afghan/Canadian-led Pathways To Peace project.\nConcordis assisted the Annapolis Friends Peace and Justice Center with expert advice on its work with the Palestinian/Israeli Geneva Initiative, bringing Palestinian and Israeli participants together for three days of intensive discussions in August 2008 on the difficult issue of access to water supplies. Concordis held a consultation in 2009 on the role of churches in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, bringing together experts and leaders from UK churches.\nConcordis has undertaken in-depth research and confidential partnering discussions in other areas and also contributes to conflict analysis and public awareness, informing different groups about the complexities of conflict.\n\nConcordis International has cooperated with several other agencies, often acting in partnerships.\nConcordis is a member of the following networks:\n\nAdvocates for International Development (A4ID)\n\nAlliance for Peacebuilding\n\nBritish Overseas Network for Development (BOND)\nThe Humanitarian Centre, Cambridge, UK\n\nThe Jubilee House Forum\n\nConcordis has worked with the following local partners:\n\nSudan and South Sudan\n\nKenya\n\nAfghanistan\n\nMore than a line: Sudan’s North-South Border\n\nAccord:Peace by Piece\n\nConcordis Briefing 1: 'Overarching Inter-Governmental Frameworks: Comparative Reflections on Nigeria’s Tested Mechanisms'\n\nConcordis Briefing 2: 'Trade and Cross-Border Economic Cooperation'\n\nConcordis Briefing 3: 'Strategies in Border Management and Security'\n\nConcordis Briefing 4: 'Border Management and Security in Africa'\n\nConcordis Briefing 5: 'Policy Frameworks for Cross-Border Transhumance'\n\nConcordis Papers I: Land Use and Tenure - A Key to Sustainable Development in Darfur\n\nConcordis Papers II: Devolved Government within the Post-Naivasha Sudanese Constitution - A Key to Sustainable Peace in Darfur\n\nConcordis Papers III: Enabling the Sustainable and Safe Return and Reintegration of the Displaced in Darfur\n\nConcordis Papers IV: Access to Education in Sudan\n\nConcordis Papers V: The Role of Investment in Sudan’s Economic and Political Future\n\nConcordis Papers VI: Promoting Sustainable Peace in Sudan through Post-Conflict Justice and Reconciliation\n\nConcordis Papers VII: Intra-Governmental Relationships in Sudan\n\nConcordis Papers VIII: Christian Churches and the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict\n\n"}
{"id": "5670645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5670645", "title": "Credit tenant lease", "text": "Credit tenant lease\n\nA credit tenant lease is a method of financing real estate. The landlord borrows money to finance the property and pledges as security the rents to be received from the tenant. Usually, the financing is structured as nonrecourse debt, and the lease is structured as a triple net lease.\n\nCredit tenant leases may be created either in sale/leaseback transactions, or new purchase transactions.\n\nA credit tenant is usually an organization with a national footprint, a large regional tenant, or a local tenant with excellent credit that may be better than their national competitors. Only larger companies are called credit tenants. A lender will offer better financing terms for a development with a certain amount of space preleased or currently leased to credit tenants.\n"}
{"id": "41535973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41535973", "title": "Empty Beds, Wasted Dollars", "text": "Empty Beds, Wasted Dollars\n\nEmpty Beds, Wasted Dollars was the strategic communications and advocacy strategy developed and executed by Edward Borges to support New York State Office of Children and Family Services Commissioner Gladys Carrion's transformation of New York's juvenile justice system from a failed, punitive, correctional model to an evidence-based program to improve outcomes for children and make communities safer, despite formidable opposition from Upstate Republican legislators in whose districts the majority of juvenile jails were located and the employees who worked in these facilities.\n\nEmpty Beds, Wasted Dollars campaign generated more than 300 newspaper, magazine, television, radio and online story and op-ed placements and 30 editorials in fewer than three years. It is widely-credited with creating the political capital needed to close more than half the state's juvenile jails where children in custody had been maltreated by state employees and where an emotionally disturbed 15-year-old boy was killed in 2006, when two state workers sat on him until he stopped breathing. The success of this campaign provided Carrión the clout to advance reform of the state's child welfare and child care systems and improve overall child well-being across New York.\n"}
{"id": "24587131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24587131", "title": "Five Star Movement", "text": "Five Star Movement\n\nThe Five Star Movement ( , M5S) is a political party in Italy. The M5S was founded on 4 October 2009 by Beppe Grillo, a popular comedian and blogger, and Gianroberto Casaleggio, a web strategist. After Casaleggio's death in April 2016, Grillo appointed a directorate composed of five leading MPs (Alessandro Di Battista, Luigi Di Maio, Roberto Fico, Carla Ruocco and Carlo Sibilia), which lasted until the following October when he dissolved it and proclaimed himself the \"political head\" of the M5S. Grillo is also formally president of the association named the Five Star Movement; his nephew, Enrico Grillo, serves as vice president; and his accountant, Enrico Maria Nadasi, as secretary. Davide Casaleggio, Gianroberto's son, has an increasingly important albeit unofficial role.\n\nThe M5S is variously considered populist, anti-establishment, environmentalist, alter-globalist and Eurosceptic. The party has also been described as New Right and accused of being right-wing due to its anti-immigration stance despite its promotion of policies usually advocated by Italian left-wingers, such as citizen's income and green policies. Grillo himself once provocatively referred to the movement as \"populist\". Its members stress that the M5S is not a party but a \"movement\", and it may not be included in the traditional left–right paradigm. The \"five stars\" are a reference to five key issues for the party: public water, sustainable transport, sustainable development, right to Internet access, and environmentalism. The party also advocates e-democracy, direct democracy, the principle of \"zero-cost politics\", degrowth and nonviolence.\n\nIn the 2013 general election, the M5S won the most votes of all parties (excluding votes from Italians abroad) for the Chamber of Deputies. However, its deputies only held 109 of 630 positions as M5S refused to join a coalition. Since the 2014 European Parliament election, the M5S has been part of the Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy (EFDD) group in the European Parliament, along with the UK Independence Party and minor right-wing parties. In January 2017, M5S members voted in favor of Grillo's proposal to join the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE) group, but the party was eventually refused, and M5S continues to be part of the EFDD group.\n\nIn 2016, two party members, Virginia Raggi and Chiara Appendino, were elected mayors of Rome and Turin, respectively. On 21–22 September 2017, the Vice President of the Chamber of Deputies Luigi Di Maio was elected with 82% of votes in an online primary election as candidate to the premiership and \"political head\" of the movement, replacing Grillo as leader of the M5S, but not as the M5S's \"guarantor\". In January 2018, Grillo separated his own blog from the movement, which was used in the previous years as an M5S online newspaper and the main propaganda tool.\n\nIn the 2018 general election, the M5S became the largest individual party in the Italian Parliament and entered government.\n\nOn 16 July 2005, Beppe Grillo suggested through his blog that supporters adopt social networks, such as Meetup, to communicate and coordinate local meetings. The first \"40 Friends of Beppe Grillo\" meetups began with the initial aim to \"have fun, get together, share ideas and proposals for a better world, starting from one's own city, and discuss and develop my posts, if you believe them\". Meetups featured thematic working groups on topics entitled \"technology and innovation\", \"press-communication\", \"ethical consumerism\", \"currency study\", \"no incinerators\" and others. From these beginnings, Grillo was asked to stand in the October 2005 primaries for the selection of the prime ministerial candidate of the centre-left coalition, The Union.\nOn three occasions (17 December 2005 in Turin, 26 March 2006 in Piacenza, and 16 to 18 June 2006 in Sorrento), the representatives of the Friends of Beppe Grillo meetups held national meetings with Grillo, where proposals regarding environmental issues such as the replacement of polluting incinerators with systems applying mechanical-biological waste treatment were discussed.\nDuring the fourth national meeting held in Genoa on 3 February 2007, Grillo announced his desire to provide an autonomous space during his touring shows for local meetup activists.\n\nOn 14 July 2007, some civic list representatives who participated in local elections the previous spring met in Parma to establish a national coordination between associations, movements, and organisations. They met to practise promoting and experimenting with direct and participatory democracy and to share a document of intent, which included the establishment of proposals, repealing referenda, the direct election of the Ombudsman, the institution of participatory budgeting, and a \"bound\" mandate for public administrators and open primaries.\n\nOn 14 June 2007, Grillo launched \"Vaffanculo Day\" (Fuck-off Day), or V-Day, in Bologna. V-Day was meant to mobilize the collection of signatures to submit a popular initiative seeking to introduce preferences in the current electoral law and to prevent parliamentary candidate nominations for the criminally convicted and those who have already completed two terms in office.\nThe name V-Day was chosen to reflect four references. The first refers to the Normandy landings of the Allies in Normandy during World War II in order to symbolise how Italian citizens would \"invade\" bad policy. The second refers to the motion picture and graphic novel \"V for Vendetta\" which the Five Stars Movement frequently relates with its principles of political renewal (the logo of the movement borrows the V symbol from the franchise). The third refers to the interjection \"Fuck you\" directed at bad policy. The fourth is a reference to the Roman numeral for five.\n\nV-Day, which continued the \"Clean Parliament\" initiative promoted by Grillo since 2006, took place in many Italian cities on 8 September 2007 to evoke the state of confusion caused by the Badoglio Proclamation on 8 September 1943. On that day, 336,000 signatures were collected, far exceeding the 50,000 required to file a popular initiative law. For the occasion, Michele Serra coined the term \"grillismo\".\nV2-Day was organised for 25 April 2008, a second day of action aimed at collecting signatures for three referenda. On 29 and 30 September 2007 in Lucca, several members of the meetups and local civic lists, in the initial wake of the discussions started on the net and in the wake of the previous meeting of Perugia, defined the policies for the establishment of civic lists. On 10 October 2007, Grillo gave guidance on how to create the civic lists.\n\nOn 3 December 2008, Grillo presented the symbol of the Five Star Civic Lists for the 2009 local elections. The logo in the \"V\" of \"citizenship\" is a reference to V-Day On 17 February 2009 in Bologna, a gathering of civic lists discussed the future of the movement and the coming elections. In particular, Sonia Alfano consulted with the activist base of the movement about her possible candidacy for the European Parliament as an independent candidate with the Italy of Values list.\nOn 8 March 2009, the first national meeting of the Five Star Civic Lists was held in Florence. Here, Grillo presented the \"Charter of Florence\", a 12-point program of the various local civic lists in the afternoon. About twenty local groups presented their ideas and experiences. In April, Grillo announced he had received a letter from Nobel Prize winner in economics Joseph Stiglitz in which he declared he would look carefully at the experience of local civic lists promoted through the blog.\nOn 29 March 2009, Grillo announced that in the upcoming European elections he would support Luigi de Magistris and Sonia Alfano (figures close to the movement) as independent candidates in the lists of Italy of Values, together with the journalist Carlo Vulpio (also close to the movement). On 11 June, De Magistris and Alfano, candidates in all five constituencies, were elected to the European Parliament, resulting in the first and second preferences (of 419 000 and 143 000). In the same election, as stated by Beppe Grillo, 23 councilors were elected from the Five Star Civic Lists, especially in the municipalities of Emilia-Romagna in central Italy.\n\nOn 9 September 2009, the launch of the National Five Star Movement, inspired by the ideologies of the \"Charter of Florence\", was announced.\"\n\nAlong with Gianroberto Casaleggio, on 4 October 2009, Grillo declared the birth of the Five Star Movement and presented a programme at the Emerald Theatre in Milan.\n\nDuring the 2010 regional elections, the M5S obtained notable results in the five regions where it ran a candidate for President: Giovanni Favia gained 7.0% of the vote in Emilia-Romagna (6.0% for the list, with two regional councilors elected); Davide Bono 4.1% in Piedmont (3.7%, two councilors); David Borrelli 3.2% in Veneto (2.6%, no councilors); Vito Crimi 3.0% in Lombardy (2.3%, no councilors); and Roberto Fico 1.3% in Campania (1.3%, no councilors).\n\nIn the local elections on 15 and 16 May 2011, the M5S was present in 75 of the 1,177 municipalities in the vote, including 18 of the 23 provincial capitals called to vote. In the first round, the M5S entered its representatives in 28 municipalities (for a total of 34 elected councilors) and often resulting in some important decisive ballots. Its best results were in the cities and towns of the center-north, especially in Emilia-Romagna where the list achieved a share of the vote of between 9% and 12% in Bologna, Rimini and Ravenna) and Piedmont. In the south it rarely obtained 2% of the vote. \nIn the regional elections in Molise on 16 and 17 October 2011, the M5S had its own candidate for the presidency and its own list. The list received 2.27% of the votes and the presidential candidate garnered 5.60% of the vote, but the movement achieved no seats.\n\nIn the 2012 local elections, the M5S did well in several cities of the North, notably in Genoa (14.1%), Verona (9.5%), Parma (19.9%), Monza (10.2%), and Piacenza (10.0%). In the small Venetian town of Sarego, the M5S's candidate was elected mayor with 35.2% of the vote (there is no run-off in towns with less than 15,000 inhabitants). In the run-offs the party won the mayorships of Parma (60.2%), Mira (52.5%), and Comacchio (69.2%). After the election, the party consistently scored around 15–20% nationally in opinion polls, frequently ahead of The People of Freedom and second to the Democratic Party.\n\nIn the Sicilian regional elections of 2012, the M5S fielded Giancarlo Cancelleri as candidate. The campaign kicked off with Grillo's arrival in Messina on 10 October swimming from the mainland. In the election, Cancelleri came third with 18.2% of the vote, while the M5S was the most voted for party at 14.9%, obtaining 15 seats out of 90 in the Regional Assembly in a very fragmented political landscape. However, the election was characterised by low participation as only 47.4% of eligible voters turned out to vote.\n\nOn 29 October 2012, Grillo announced guidelines for candidates wishing to stand in the 2013 general election. For the first time in Italy, the candidates were chosen by party members through an online primary, which took place 3 to 6 December.\n\nOn 12 December 2012, Grillo expelled two leading members from the party: Giovanni Favia, regional councillor of Emilia-Romagna; and Federica Salsi, municipal councillor in Bologna, for breaking the party's rules. The former had talked about the lack of democracy within the party while the latter had taken part in a political talk show on Italian television, something that was discouraged and later forbidden by Grillo.\n\nOn 22 February 2013, a large crowd of 800,000 people attended Grillo's final rally before the 2013 general election in Piazza San Giovanni in Rome. On 24 and 25 February 2013, the M5S contested all Italian constituencies: Grillo was listed as head of the coalition, although he was not an electoral candidate. The vote for M5S in the Chamber of Deputies reached 25.55% of the vote in Italy and 9.67% for overseas voters, a total of 8,784,499 votes, making it the second most voted-for list after the Democratic Party (which acquired 25.42% of the votes in Italy and 29.9% abroad, or 8,932,615 votes), electing 108 deputies. The M5S vote for the Senate was 23.79% in Italy and 10% abroad, a total of 7,375,412 votes, second only to the Democratic Party (which garnered 8,674,893 votes), electing 54 Senators. The party gained a higher share of the vote than was predicted by any of the opinion polls. The M5S won 25.6% of the vote for the Chamber of Deputies, more than any other single party. However, both the Italy Common Good centre-left coalition dominated by the Democratic Party, and the centre-right alliance centred on The People of Freedom, obtained more votes as coalitions. The M5S was the largest party in the Abruzzo, Marche, Liguria, Sicily and Sardinia.\n\nOn 21 March 2013, Luigi Di Maio was elected vice president of the Chamber of Deputies with 173 votes. Aged 26, he was the youngest vice president of the house to date.\n\nCompeting in its first European election, the M5S won second place at the national level 2014 European Parliament elections, receiving 21.15% of the vote and returning 17 members of the European Parliament (MEP).\nIn the run-up to the 8th parliamentary term, the M5S lacked a European affiliation and sought a European parliament group. Initial negotiations were held with Europe of Freedom and Democracy (EFD) co-president Nigel Farage and The Greens–European Free Alliance (Greens/EFA). On 4 June 2014, The Greens/EFA rejected Grillo's attempts to obtain group membership. On 11 June 2014, the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE) group rejected M5S as a potential affiliate in a statement citing M5S's perceived Euroscepticism and populism. In an online referendum offered to M5S members on 12 June 2014, the choice of European Parliament affiliation offered were Europe of Freedom and Democracy (EFD), the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR), or to become Non-Inscrits. Party activists voted 78.1% to join the EFD group. On 18 June 2014, it was announced that the EFD group had enough MEPs to continue into the 8th European Parliament term. On 24 June 2014, M5S MEP David Borrelli was chosen as the group's new co-president and the EFD group name was amended to Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy (EFDD) for the upcoming parliament. The EFDD group lost its official group status on 16 October 2014 after the defection of Latvian MEP Iveta Grigule until Polish MEP Robert Iwaszkiewicz joined the group four days later.\n\nOn 17 November 2015, after an online poll in which 40,995 people took part, the movement changed its logo to replace the URL of co-founder Beppe Grillo (beppegrillo.it) with the official movement URL. The other option was to remove Grillo's URL entirely, replacing it with nothing. The grounds for the removal of Grillo's name was \"the 5 Star Movement is mature enough and is preparing to govern Italy, so I believe it's correct not to associate it to a name anymore\".\n\nThe movement's founder and main strategist Gianroberto Casaleggio died on 12 April 2016 in Milan at the age of 61 after a long period of illness due to brain cancer. After his death, his son Davide was appointed as the president of Casaleggio Associati and took his father's office as leader and strategist of the M5S.\n\nIn the 2018 general election held on 4 March 2018, neither of the three main groupings (the M5S, the centre-right coalition and the Democratic Party-led centre-left) won a majority of seats in Parliament, although the M5S became the largest individual party, with 32.7% of the vote and 227 seats in the Chamber. In May, the M5S entered into coalition talks with the Lega Nord. The talks resulted in the proposal for a so-called Government of Change under the leadership of Giuseppe Conte, a law professor close to the M5S. The formation of the cabinet initially failed on 27 May as President Sergio Mattarella did not agree on the appointment of Paolo Savona as Minister of Economy and Finances due to his perceived Euroscepticism.\n\nIn the M5S, themes derived from ecological and anti-particracy promoting the direct participation of citizens converge in the management of public affairs through forms of digital democracy. The movement wants to be a \"democratic encounter outside of party and associative ties and without the mediation of directive or representational organisms, recognising to all users of the Internet the role of government and direction that is normally attributed to a few\". From the economic point of view, it embraces the theories of degrowth, supporting the creation of \"green jobs\" and the rejection of polluting and expensive \"great works\", including incinerators and high-speed rail, aiming for an overall better quality of life and greater social justice. The M5S proposes the adoption of large-scale energy projects, elimination of waste, sustainable mobility, protection of territory from overbuilding and teleworking. The movement's political discourse often refers to the Internet as a solution to many social, economic and environmental problems. This approach bears similarities with North American cyber-utopianism and the Californian Ideology.\n\nThe movement bases its principles on direct democracy as an evolution of representative democracy. The idea is that citizens will no longer delegate their power to parties (considered old and corrupted intermediates between the state and themselves) that serve the interests of lobby groups and financial powers. They will succeed only by creating a collective intelligence made possible by the Internet.\n\nIn order to go in this direction, the M5S chose its Italian and European parliamentary candidates through online voting by registered members of Beppe Grillo's blog. Through an application called Rousseau reachable on the web, the registered users of M5S discuss, approve or reject legislative proposals (submitted then in the Parliament by the M5S group). For example, the M5S electoral law was shaped through a series of online votes, like the name of the M5S candidate for President of the Republic. The choice to support the abolition of a law against immigrants was taken online by members of the M5S even if the final decision was against the opinions of Grillo and Casaleggio. The partnership with the UK Independence Party was also decided by online voting, although the given options for the choice of European Parliament group for M5S were limited to Europe of Freedom and Democracy (EFD), European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR) and \"Stay independent\" (Non-Inscrits). The option of joining the Greens/EFA group was discussed, but this option was not available at the time of the voting due to that group's prior rejection of the M5S.\n\nOne of the most important rules of M5S is that politics is a temporary service: no one who has already been elected twice at any level (local or national) can be a candidate again and has to return to their original job. Another feature of the movement is the so-called \"zero-cost politics\", according to which politics must not become a career and way to make money. Belonging to the movement requires the self-reduction of the salaries of the citizens elected. The movement also rejects campaign contributions. In the regional elections in Sicily in 2012, the Sicilian wing of the M5S also decided to allocate the money saved by the reduction of the salaries of their elected to a fund for microcredit to help small and medium enterprises. In the general elections of 2013, the M5S claimed to have rejected over €42 million of public electoral refunds, supporting its expenses for the campaign with crowdfunding through the blog.\n\nIn order to be M5S candidates, citizens must not have a criminal record. The party also supports initiatives to ban politicians with criminal records from being elected. Among the greater political battles of M5S is the ethical commitment to a greater simplicity and transparency to counter the practice of holding two or more positions, which show the intricate conflicts of interest between any organization, subsequently strengthened by public register to avoid centralisations that are nepotistic and clientelistic. The no-criminal-record rule currently prevents the M5S's founder Beppe Grillo from running for office in view of an old conviction for vehicular manslaughter as a court found him guilty because he was the driver in a car crash.\n\nOn 15 July 2012, Grillo publicly expressed his support for same-sex marriage while the subject was discussed in the National Assembly. In offering his support to marriage between homosexual citizens, Grillo broke his silence on the subject. Some observers had speculated he opposed same-sex marriage.\n\nOn 28 October 2014, an online referendum took place among the activists of the M5S on the recognition of same-sex civil partnerships: 21,360 voted yes and 3,908 voted no. In February 2016, the M5S decided not to officially back the proposal of recognition of stepchild adoption for same sex civil partnerships, refusing to take an official stand and gave its parliamentarians freedom to vote their conscience on the matter.\n\nGrillo's campaign has an unwillingness to form alliances as a result of his refusal to be associated or characterised like any of the older political families including the centre-left and centre-right. As the government itself is made up of both centre-left and centre-right parties, the M5S has had difficulties coming to an agreement with any of the other parties. Despite the different views within the party, the issues on which the movement agrees keep the party intact through advocating the main five principles of the M5S.\n\nA Tecné poll in the aftermath of the 2018 Italian general election suggested that 56% of M5S voters preferred a government coalition between M5S and Lega Nord. A coalition between the M5S and the centre-right coalition as a whole was preferred by only 4%. 22% preferred a coalition between the M5S, the centre-left coalition led by the Democratic Party along with the hard-left Free and Equal. A technocratic government was only supported by 1% of the M5S's voters.\n\nThe M5S's position on immigration has been ambiguous, but Grillo wrote in his blog on 23 December 2016 that all illegal immigrants should be expelled from Italy, that Schengen should be temporarily suspended in the event of a terrorist attack until the threat has been removed, and that there should be revision of the Dublin Regulation. On 21 April 2017, Grillo published a piece questioning the role non-governmental organizations (NGOs) operating rescue ships off Libya are playing in the migrant crisis, asking where are they getting their money, and strongly suggesting they may be aiding traffickers. On 5 August 2017, Luigi Di Maio, who led the M5S in the 2018 election, called for \"an immediate stop to the sea-taxi service\" bringing migrants to Europe.\n\nThe Five-Star Movement has strong links to anti-vaccination activists, and party leaders have called for rolling back mandatory vaccination laws.\n\nAbout the politics of the European Union and the Euro, the M5S has often been highly critical, but like on other issues its position is ambiguous. On 12 June 2014, the M5S having been rejected by both the Greens/EFA, and the ALDE European Parliament groups, offered its activists a limited-choice online referendum to choose a group for the party. 78% of participating activists voted for the Eurosceptic EFDD.\n\nOn January 2017, the M5S tried to change its group inside the European Parliament, moving from the EFDD to the ALDE. Despite an initial agreement, ALDE leader Guy Verhofstadt refused the M5S' adhesion to the group due to insufficient guarantees to come to a common position on European integration. The attempted move caused a chilling of relations with EFDD leader Nigel Farage, who was not informed about the M5S' agreement with the ALDE. Grillo was highly critical of the rejection and blamed \"the establishment\" for preventing them joining the ALDE. On 9 January, the Radio Radicale news correspondent David Carretta published documents about the fiscal and political benefits which would have accrued to the M5S for its adhesion to ALDE on Twitter.\n\nIn December 2017, the M5S electoral leader Luigi Di Maio stated that he supported a referendum for Italy to leave the Eurozone and would vote to leave. However, he rejected his previous position in January 2018, refusing the idea of a referendum on the Euro, which was previously strongly supported by the movement. In February 2018, Di Maio also stated that \"European Union is the Five Star Movement's home\".\n\nDuring the 2010 Italian elections, some parties highlighted a contradiction between the voluntary collective action in the struggles of civil society and openness in political representation Also in 2010, there were tensions between the movement and Italy of Values party.\nIn March 2012, a city councillor in Rimini, Valentino Tavolazzi, advocated a national meeting on behalf of the movement, which gathered about 150 participants. At the meeting, there was both praise and criticism from the participants including from the few politicians who were present. The meeting took a harsh stance on the \"conditions of Regulation M5S\" because it was discovered to be in conflict with the statutes of its Civic Party of origin Project for Ferrara. In response, they lost the use of the logo and were banned from taking any position on behalf of M5S, which was portrayed as a controversial move regarding internal democracy.\n\nSince 2007, Grillo has criticized the cost of politics by supporting the reduction of payment for deputies and senators. Based on this policy, the benefits received by members of parliament would not exceed €5,000 gross per month, with any surplus returned to the state with solidarity allowance (also called end-term). However, according to the regional director of the M5S, Giovanni Favia, the deduction of €5,000 gross salary of parliamentarians is contrary to the principles of the movement as it would result in a reduction of only €2,500 net. In an interview published in several newspapers in November 2012, Favia estimated at €11,000 per month the fees prescribed for a member of M5S. The article does not explain how Favia got to deduct that amount because it necessarily includes reimbursements and per diem is not flat as costs and expenses which vary from member to member.\n\nFollowing the expulsion of Giovanni Favia and Federica Salsi for expressing views about the lack of internal democracy, the party has expelled several members for criticisms. The expulsions were made unilaterally by Grillo and as per regulation took place without prior consultation with members of the movement.\nAnother criticism frequently made by the same movement activists and former activists, such as Federico Pistono, social entrepreneur and author of \"Robots Will Steal Your Job, But That's OK: How to Survive the Economic Collapse and Be Happy\" and former member, is about the absence of any form of effective participation on the web. There is a tool for collective writing of the program and the proposed laws, but the forum is considered inadequate for the purpose. Through his blog in September 2012, Grillo said that a portal to participate via the web was already under construction. The triggering was scheduled for the end of 2012, but at the time of the February 2013 elections it was not yet realized.\n\nOn 28 January 2014, Giorgio Sorial, a deputy of the M5S, accused President Giorgio Napolitano of being a hangman who repressed opponents. Prime Minister Enrico Letta immediately defended President Napolitano, charging the M5S with being extremists. The following day, Angelo Tofalo, another deputy of the movement, ended his speech in the Chamber of Deputies by shouting \"Boia chi molla!\" (\"Hangman who gives up!\") a famous motto used during the Fascist era. Often the movement's members, especially its leader Beppe Grillo, have been accused of being too vulgar and (verbally) violent.\n\nOnce a M5S demonstration inside the Chamber of Deputies against a law approved by the government caused a brawl between the M5S, the centrist Civic Choice, the right-wing Brothers of Italy and the centre-left Democratic Party. Following insults to the President of the Chamber of Deputies Laura Boldrini, Italian journalist Corrado Augias stated on 31 January 2014 that the violence used by the M5S reminded him of fascism. The following day, a militant activist of the M5S burned some of Augias books and uploaded the photos to his Facebook profile because according to him \"Augias offended the movement\". This episode was readily taken up by major national newspapers and heavily criticized by public opinion due to some similarities with Nazi book burnings. Grillo criticized the action, saying the person who uploaded the photos did not represent the movement.\n\nOn 4 March 2018, Piera Aiello was elected a Member of Parliament for the Chamber of Deputies within the M5S as she had won 51 per cent of the majority vote in her constituency in Sicily despite being unable to publicly campaign and meet voters. Aiello's campaign mainly consisted of television interviews and she kept her identity hidden throughout the television appearances. One Italian newspaper claimed \"it was the culmination of a surreal election campaign\". Aiello, who had been living under police protection since 1991, is the widow of a gunned-down Sicilian Mafia member.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43992664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43992664", "title": "Galician Socialist Union", "text": "Galician Socialist Union\n\nThe Galician Socialist Union (USG, \"Unión Socialista Galega\" in Galician language) was a Galician nationalist and Marxist party founded in August 1932 by Xohán Xesús González a prominent militant of the UGT and a member of the Seminary of Socialist Studies.\n\nAt first it had only implementation in the region of Santiago. It had \"Amañecer\" as its official magazine (published biweekly). In the elections of November 1933 presented candidates in all provinces as independent (Xohán Xesus González for A Coruña, Siervo González Rivas for Lugo, Jesús Núñez Rodríguez by Ourense and Francisco Guimarey for Pontevedra) and shared rallies with the Partido Galeguista candidates. Dissolved after the electoral failure and the triumph of the right, the USG merged with the Republican Left. In 1936 several of the party members were killed by the Francoist forces, including almost all their leadership. The USG was the historical and ideological antecedent of the Marxist and Galician nationalist parties that appeared in Galiza in the 60s. A lot of the USG members were supporters of the independence of Galiza, including their leader Xohán Xesús González.\n"}
{"id": "36898325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36898325", "title": "Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction", "text": "Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction\n\nThe G8 Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction is a security initiative announced at the 2002 G8 summit. It entails a pledge by G8 members to commit US$ 20 billion, over a ten-year period, towards the elimination and security of some weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) in Russia and former soviet states. The agreement was initiated against the backdrop of the September 11 attacks and specifically aimed to deny terrorists access to WMDs. Some of the stated priorities include: destroying stockpiles of chemical weapons, dismantling decommissioned nuclear submarines, safeguarding/disposing fissile material as well as employing former weapons scientists. The initiative was extended in 2011. Now it has 27 members after Hungary joined in December, 2013.\n"}
{"id": "392816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392816", "title": "Greater Romania", "text": "Greater Romania\n\nThe term Greater Romania () usually refers to the borders of the Kingdom of Romania in the interwar period. It also refers to a pan-nationalist idea.\n\nAs a concept, its main goal is the re-creation of a nation-state which would incorporate all Romanian speakers. The phrase is strongly associated with the Kingdom of Romania between 1918 and 1940, often considered the realization of the pan-Romanian goal. In 1918, after the incorporation of Transylvania, Bukovina and Bessarabia, the Romanian state reached its largest peacetime geographical extent ever (295,049 km²). Today the concept serves as a guiding principle for the unification of Romania and Moldova.\n\nThe idea is comparable to other similar conceptions such as the Greek Megali Idea, Greater Hungary, United Macedonia, Great Yugoslavia, as well as Greater Italy.\n\nThe theme of national identity had been always a key concern for Romanian culture and politics. The Romanian national ideology in the first decades of the twentieth century was a typical example of ethnocentric nationalism. The concept of \"Greater Romania\" shows similarities to the idea of national state. The Romanian territorial claims were based on \"primordial racial modalities\", the essential goal of them was to unify the biologically defined Romanians. The nation-building based on the French model of a unitary nation-state became an all time priority especially in the interwar and the Communist periods.\n\nThe union of Michael the Brave, who ruled over the three principalities with Romanian population (Wallachia, Transylvania and Moldavia) for a short period of time, was viewed in later periods as the precursor of a modern Romania, a thesis which was argued with noted intensity by Nicolae Bălcescu. This theory became a point of reference for nationalists, as well as a catalyst for various Romanian forces to achieve a single Romanian state.\n\nThe Romanian revolution in 1848 already carried the seeds of the national dream of a unified and united Romania, though the \"idea of unification\" had been known from earlier works of Naum Ramniceanu (1802) and Ion Budai-Deleanu (1804). The concept owes its life to Dumitru Brătianu, who introduced the term \"Greater Romania\" in 1852. The first step in re-unifying Romanians was to establish The United Principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia in 1859, which became known as Romania since the 1866 Constitution and turned into a Kingdom in 1881, after gaining independence from the Ottoman Empire. However, before the Austro-Hungarian Compromise, the elite of the Transylvanian Romanians did not support the concept of \"Greater Romania\", instead they wanted only equality with the other nations in Transylvania. The concept became a political reality when, in 1881, the Romanian National Party of Transylvania gathered Romanians on a common political platform to fight together for Transylvania's autonomy. According to Livezeanu the creation of Greater Romania with \"a unifying concept of nationhood\" started to evolve in the late 1910s. The Word War One played a crucial part in the development of Romanian national consciousness.\n\nThe Treaty of Bucharest (1916) was signed between Romania and the Entente Powers on 4 (Old Style)/17 (New Style) August 1916 in Bucharest. The treaty stipulated the conditions under which Romania agreed to join the war on the side of the Entente, particularly territorial promises in Austria-Hungary. The signatories bound themselves to keep secret the contents of the treaty until a general peace was concluded.\n\nThe concept of \"Greater Romania\" materialized as a geopolitical reality after the First World War. Romania gained control over Bessarabia, Bukovina and Transylvania. The borders established by the treaties concluding the war did not change until 1940. The resulting state, often referred to as \"România Mare\" or, alternatively, as (roughly translated in English as \"Romania Made Whole,\" or \"Entire Romania\"), was seen as the 'true', \"whole\" Romanian state, or, as Tom Gallagher states, the \"Holy Grail of Romanian nationalism\". Its constitution, proclaimed in 1923, \"largely ignored the new ethnic and cultural realities\".\n\nThe Romanian ideology changed due to the demographic, cultural and social alterations, however the nationalist desire for a homogeneous Romanian state conflicted with the multiethnic, multicultural truth of Greater Romania. The ideological rewriting of the role of \"spiritual victimization\", turning it into \"spiritual police\", was a radical and challenging task for the Romanian intellectuals because they had to entirely revise the national identity and the destiny of the Romanian nation. In accordance with this view, Livezeanu states that the Great Union created a \"deeply fragmented\" interwar Romania where the determination of national identity met with great difficulties mainly because of the effects of the hundred years of political separation. Due to the inability of the government to solve the problems of the Transylvanian Romanians' integration and the effects of the worldwide economic depression \"the population gradually lost its faith in the democratic conception of Greater Romania\".\n\nBessarabia declared its sovereignty as the Moldavian Democratic Republic in 1917 by the newly formed \"Council of the Country\" (\"Sfatul Țării\") The state was faced with the disorderly retreat through its territory of Russian troops from disbanded units. In January 1918, the \"Sfatul Ţării\" called on Romanian troops to protect the province from the Bolsheviks who were spreading the Russian Revolution. After declaring independence from Russia on 24 January 1918, the \"Sfatul Ţării\" voted for union with Romania on 9 April 1918. Of the 138 deputies in the council, 86 voted for union, 3 against, 36 abstained (mostly the deputies representing minorities, 52% of the population at the time) and 13 were not present. The United Kingdom, France, Italy and Japan recognized the incorporation of Bessarabia through the Treaty of Paris. The United States and the Soviet Union however refused to do so, the latter maintaining a claim to the territory for the whole interwar period. Furthermore, Japan failed to ratify the treaty, which therefore never entered into force.\n\nIn Bukovina, after being occupied by the Romanian Army, a National Council voted for union with Romania. While the Romanian, German, and Polish deputies unanimously voted for union, the Ukrainian deputies (representing 38% of the population according to the 1910 Austrian census) and Jewish deputies did not attend the council. The unification was ratified in the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye.\n\nTransylvania (the last of the three regions to join) joined Romania by the \"Proclamation of Union\" of Alba Iulia adopted by the Deputies of the Romanians of Transylvania, and supported one month later by the vote of the Deputies of the Saxons of Transylvania. The Hungarian-speakers of Transylvania, about 32% at the time (including a large Hungarian-speaking Jewish community), and the Germans of Banat did not elect deputies upon the dissolution of Austria-Hungary, since they were considered represented by the Budapest government of Hungary. In the 1920 Treaty of Trianon, Hungary was forced to give up all claims over Transylvania from the Romanians.\n\nIn 1940, the Romanian state agreed to cede Bessarabia to the Soviet Union, as provided for by the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact between the Soviet Union and Germany. It also lost Northern Bukovina and the Herța region, which were not mentioned in the pact, to the Soviet Union. It lost Northern Transylvania to Hungary, through the Second Vienna Award, and the Southern Dobruja to Bulgaria by the Treaty of Craiova. In the course of World War II, Romania, which was allied with the Axis Powers, not only re-annexed Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina, but also took under administrative control lands to the east of Dniester (parts of recently formed Moldavian SSR, and of Odessa and Vinnytsia oblasts of Ukrainian SSR), creating Transnistria Governorate. Despite clear Ukrainian majority in the governorate's ethnic composition, demonstrated by census conducted in December 1941, Romanian government hoped to annex it eventually as a \"compensation\" for Northern Transylvania lost to Hungary.\n\nThese territories were lost again when the tide of the war turned. After the war, Romania regained the Transylvanian territories lost to Hungary, but not territory lost to Bulgaria or the Soviet Union. In 1948 a treaty between the Soviet Union and Soviet-occupied Communist Romania also provided for the transfer of four uninhabited islands to the Soviet Union, three in the Danube Delta and Snake Island in the Black Sea.\n\nAfter the war, the concept was interpreted as \"obsolete\" because of the Romanian defeat. However, even the Communist politicians between 1944 and 1947 plainly supported the re-establishment of Greater Romania. Gheorghe Apostol's reminiscence strengthens the view for the nationalist argument of the Communists at the negotiations with Stalin about the future of Northern Transylvania. In contrast with this view, Romsics quotes Valter Roman, one of the heads of the Romanian Communist Party, as writing in his memo of April 1944: \"the two parts of Transylvania should be reunited as an independent state.\"\n\nThe Romanian Communist politicians' behavior were depicted as nationalist, and this circumstance brought about the concept of National Communism, which amalgamated elements of Stalinism and Fascism. According to Trond Gilberg the regime needed the strongly nationalist attitude because of the social, economic and political challenges. After the retreat of the Soviet troops from Romania in 1958, the national ideology was reborn, however it raises questions about its reconcilability with internationalist communism. Nicolae Ceaușescu fancied the idea that the creation of Greater Romania was the fruit of the end of the nation-formation process.\n\nThe fall of the socialist regimes in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union and the economic downturn accompanying it led to a resurgence of nationalism in the region. Romania and Moldova, state comprising the bulk of Bessarabia which had become independent after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, confronted with their eastern neighbor, Ukraine. Bucharest and Chișinău announced territorial claims on Ukrainian lands (on parts of Chernivtsi and Odessa regions). Bulgaria surmised that the concept of Greater Romania stood behind Romanian foreign policy toward Moldova therefore expressed concerns about possible developments on Dobruja.\n\nIn 1992, the issue on unification of Moldova and Romania was negotiated between Romanian and Moldovan governments and they wanted to achieve it until the end of the year. However, the \"unionists\" lost their dominance in Moldova in the middle of the year. Bucharest admitted the existence of the two Romanian states (Romania and Moldova) and defined priorities in reference to this matter: \"the creation of a common cultural space; the creation of an economically integrated zone; and gradual political integration\". The Moldovan Snegur government became more pragmatic and realized that the nationalist propaganda from Bucharest did not help their aims especially on the problem of \"Soviet annexed Bessarabia\". The Romanian organizations ignored the result of the Moldovan referendum on independence because the referendum did not ask Romanians in Romania. Romanian politicians blamed Russia and the Moldovan regime that unification became unreal. According to Edward Ozhiganov (Head of the Division for Ethnopolitical Research at the Analytical Center of the Federation Council in Russia), the armed conflict in Moldova was due to the Romanian ethnic nationalism, in other words, \"the attempt to create a unitary, ethnic state with power concentrated in the hands of ethnic nationalists in what was actually a multiethnic society.\"\n\nBucharest's behavior toward Ukraine did not change until 1997 when Romanian politicians realized that resolving border disputes were a precondition for NATO membership.\n\nPresent-day Romanian irredentists (such as members of PRM) aim to take possession of territories of northern Bukovina and Bessarabia. These regions currently belong to Ukraine and Moldova. The Russian presence and the tense political situation in Moldova also inflame their demands.. Nevertheless, radicals make territorial demands on Hungary too. The Greater Romania Party (Partidul România Mare – PRM) is an emblematic representative of the aforesaid concept, though the conception is fostered also by other right-wing groups (e.g. the organisation of the New Right –Noua Dreaptă with paramilitary inclinations).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23814334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23814334", "title": "Group Risk Protection", "text": "Group Risk Protection\n\nGroup Risk Protection (GRP) is a form of crop insurance available in certain parts of the United States that makes an indemnity payment to all participating crop farmers in a particular area when the entire county’s crop production is a certain percentage below the normal production level of the county. This differs from the basic crop insurance program that makes payments to participating farmers when the individual farmer’s own crop yield is less than the producer’s normal yield.\n"}
{"id": "6337402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6337402", "title": "Human rights in Korea", "text": "Human rights in Korea\n\nThe human rights situation in Korea is the subject of two separate articles:\n"}
{"id": "9072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9072", "title": "Jacques-Louis David", "text": "Jacques-Louis David\n\nJacques-Louis David (; 30 August 1748 – 29 December 1825) was a French painter in the Neoclassical style, considered to be the preeminent painter of the era. In the 1780s his cerebral brand of history painting marked a change in taste away from Rococo frivolity toward classical austerity and severity and heightened feeling, harmonizing with the moral climate of the final years of the Ancien Régime.\n\nDavid later became an active supporter of the French Revolution and friend of Maximilien Robespierre (1758–1794), and was effectively a dictator of the arts under the French Republic. Imprisoned after Robespierre's fall from power, he aligned himself with yet another political regime upon his release: that of Napoleon, The First Consul of France. At this time he developed his Empire style, notable for its use of warm Venetian colours. After Napoleon's fall from Imperial power and the Bourbon revival, David exiled himself to Brussels, then in the United Kingdom of the Netherlands, where he remained until his death. David had , making him the strongest influence in French art of the early 19th century, especially academic Salon painting.\n\nJacques-Louis David was born into a prosperous family in Paris on 30 August 1748. When he was about nine his father was killed in a duel and his mother left him with his well-off architect uncles. They saw to it that he received an excellent education at the Collège des Quatre-Nations, University of Paris, but he was never a good student-- he had a facial tumor that impeded his speech, and he was always preoccupied with drawing. He covered his notebooks with drawings, and he once said, \"I was always hiding behind the instructor's chair, drawing for the duration of the class\". Soon, he desired to be a painter, but his uncles and mother wanted him to be an architect. He overcame the opposition, and went to learn from François Boucher (1703–1770), the leading painter of the time, who was also a distant relative. Boucher was a Rococo painter, but tastes were changing, and the fashion for Rococo was giving way to a more classical style. Boucher decided that instead of taking over David's tutelage, he would send David to his friend, Joseph-Marie Vien (1716–1809), a painter who embraced the classical reaction to Rococo. There, David attended the Royal Academy, based in what is now the Louvre.\n\nEach year the Academy awarded an outstanding student the prestigious Prix de Rome, which funded a 3-5 year stay in the Eternal City. Since artists were now revisiting classical styles, the trip to Rome provided its winners the opportunity to study the remains of classical antiquity and the works of the Italian Renaissance masters at first hand. Each \"pensionnaire\" was lodged in the French Academy's Roman outpost, which from the years 1737 to 1793 was the Palazzo Mancini in the Via del Corso. David competed for, and failed to win, the prize for three consecutive years (with \"Minerva Fighting Mars\", \"Diana and Apollo Killing Niobe's Children\" and \"The Death of Seneca\"). Each failure contributed to his lifelong grudge against the institution. After his second loss in 1772, David went on a hunger strike, which lasted two and a half days before the faculty encouraged him to continue painting. Confident he now had the support and backing needed to win the prize, he resumed his studies with great zeal—only to fail to win the Prix de Rome again the following year. Finally, in 1774, David was awarded the Prix de Rome on the strength of his painting of \"Erasistratus Discovering the Cause of Antiochus' Disease\", a subject set by the judges. In October 1775 he made the journey to Italy with his mentor, Joseph-Marie Vien, who had just been appointed director of the French Academy at Rome.\n\nWhile in Italy, David mostly studied the works of 17th-century masters such as Poussin, Caravaggio, and the Carracci. Although he declared, \"the Antique will not seduce me, it lacks animation, it does not move\", David filled twelve sketchbooks with drawings that he and his studio used as model books for the rest of his life. He was introduced to the painter Raphael Mengs (1728–1779), who opposed the Rococo tendency to sweeten and trivialize ancient subjects, advocating instead the rigorous study of classical sources and close adherence to ancient models. Mengs' principled, historicizing approach to the representation of classical subjects profoundly influenced David's pre-revolutionary painting, such as \"The Vestal Virgin\", probably from the 1780s. Mengs also introduced David to the theoretical writings on ancient sculpture by Johann Joachim Winckelmann (1717–1768), the German scholar held to be the founder of modern art history. As part of the Prix de Rome, David toured the newly excavated ruins of Pompeii in 1779, which deepened his belief that the persistence of classical culture was an index of its eternal conceptual and formal power. During the trip David also assiduously studied the High Renaissance painters, Raphael making a profound and lasting impression on the young French artist.\n\nAlthough David's fellow students at the academy found him difficult to get along with, they recognized his genius. David's stay at the French Academy in Rome was extended by a year. In July 1780, he returned to Paris. There, he found people ready to use their influence for him, and he was made and official member of the Royal Academy. He sent the Academy two paintings, and both were included in the Salon of 1781, a high honor. He was praised by his famous contemporary painters, but the administration of the Royal Academy was very hostile to this young upstart. After the Salon, the King granted David lodging in the Louvre, an ancient and much desired privilege of great artists. When the contractor of the King's buildings, M. Pécoul, was arranging with David, he asked the artist to marry his daughter, Marguerite Charlotte. This marriage brought him money and eventually four children. David had about 50 of his own pupils and was commissioned by the government to paint \"\"Horace defended by his Father\", but he soon decided, \"Only in Rome can I paint Romans.\"\" His father-in-law provided the money he needed for the trip, and David headed for Rome with his wife and three of his students, one of whom, Jean-Germain Drouais (1763–1788), was the Prix de Rome winner of that year.\n\nIn Rome, David painted his famous \"Oath of the Horatii\", 1784. In this piece, the artist references Enlightenment values while alluding to Rousseau's social contract. The republican ideal of the general became the central focus of the painting with all three sons positioned in compliance with the father. The Oath between the characters can be read as an act of unification of men to the binding of the state. The issue of gender roles also becomes apparent in this piece, as the women in Horatii greatly contrast the group of brothers. David depicts the father with his back to the women, shutting them out of the oath. They also appear to be smaller in scale and physically isolated from the male figures. The masculine virility and discipline displayed by the men's rigid and confident stances is also severely contrasted to the slouching, swooning female softness created in the other half of the composition. Here we see the clear division of male-female attributes that confined the sexes to specific roles under Rousseau's popularized doctrine of \"separate spheres\".\n\nThese revolutionary ideals are also apparent in the \"Distribution of Eagles\". While \"Oath of the Horatii\" and \"The Tennis Court Oath\" stress the importance of masculine self-sacrifice for one's country and patriotism, the \"Distribution of Eagles\" would ask for self-sacrifice for one's Emperor (Napoleon) and the importance of battlefield glory.\nIn 1787, David did not become the Director of the French Academy in Rome, which was a position he wanted dearly. The Count in charge of the appointments said David was too young, but said he would support him in 6 to 12 years. This situation would be one of many that would cause him to lash out at the Academy in years to come.\n\nFor the Salon of 1787, David exhibited his famous \"Death of Socrates\". \"Condemned to death, Socrates, strong, calm and at peace, discusses the immortality of the soul. Surrounded by Crito, his grieving friends and students, he is teaching, philosophizing, and in fact, thanking the God of Health, Asclepius, for the hemlock brew which will ensure a peaceful death... The wife of Socrates can be seen grieving alone outside the chamber, dismissed for her weakness. Plato is depicted as an old man seated at the end of the bed.\" Critics compared the Socrates with Michelangelo's Sistine Ceiling and Raphael's Stanze, and one, after ten visits to the Salon, described it as \"in every sense perfect\". Denis Diderot said it looked like he copied it from some ancient bas-relief. The painting was very much in tune with the political climate at the time. For this painting, David was not honored by a royal \"works of encouragement\".\n\nFor his next painting, David created \"The Lictors Bring to Brutus the Bodies of His Sons\". The work had tremendous appeal for the time. Before the opening of the Salon, the French Revolution had begun. The National Assembly had been established, and the Bastille had fallen. The royal court did not want propaganda agitating the people, so all paintings had to be checked before being hung. David's portrait of Lavoisier, who was a chemist and physicist as well as an active member of the Jacobin party, was banned by the authorities for such reasons. When the newspapers reported that the government had not allowed the showing of \"The Lictors Bring to Brutus the Bodies of His Sons\", the people were outraged, and the royals were forced to give in. The painting was hung in the exhibition, protected by art students. The painting depicts Lucius Junius Brutus, the Roman leader, grieving for his sons. Brutus's sons had attempted to overthrow the government and restore the monarchy, so the father ordered their death to maintain the republic. Brutus was the heroic defender of the republic, sacrificing his own family for the good of the republic. On the right, the mother holds her two daughters, and the nurse is seen on the far right, in anguish. Brutus sits on the left, alone, brooding, seemingly dismissing the dead bodies of his sons. Knowing what he did was best for his country, but the tense posture of his feet and toes reveals his inner turmoil. The whole painting was a Republican symbol, and obviously had immense meaning during these times in France. It exemplified civic virtue, a value highly regarded during the Revolution.\n\nIn the beginning, David was a supporter of the Revolution, a friend of Robespierre, and a member of the Jacobin Club. While others were leaving the country for new and greater opportunities, David stayed behind to help destroy the old order; he was a regicide who voted in the National Convention for the Execution of Louis XVI. It is uncertain why he did this, as there were many more opportunities for him under the King than the new order; some people suggest David's love for the classical made him embrace everything about that period, including a republican government.\nOthers believed that they found the key to the artist's revolutionary career in his personality. Undoubtedly, David's artistic sensibility, mercurial temperament, volatile emotions, ardent enthusiasm, and fierce independence might have been expected to help turn him against the established order but they did not fully explain his devotion to the republican regime. Nor did the vague statements of those who insisted upon his \"powerful ambition...and unusual energy of will\" actually account for his revolutionary connections. Those who knew him maintained that \"generous ardor\", high-minded idealism and well-meaning though sometimes fanatical enthusiasm, rather than opportunism and jealousy, motivated his activities during this period.\n\nSoon, David turned his critical sights on the Royal Academy of Painting and Sculpture. This attack was probably caused primarily by the hypocrisy of the organization and their personal opposition against his work, as seen in previous episodes in David's life. The Royal Academy was controlled by royalists, who opposed David's attempts at reform; so the National Assembly finally ordered it to make changes to conform to the new constitution.\n\nDavid then began work on something that would later hound him: propaganda for the new republic. David's painting of Brutus was shown during the play \"Brutus\" by Voltaire.\n\nIn 1789, Jacques-Louis David attempted to leave his artistic mark on the historical beginnings of the French Revolution with his painting of \"The Oath of the Tennis Court\". David undertook this task not out of personal political conviction but rather because he was commissioned to do so. The painting was meant to commemorate the event of the same name but was never completed. A meeting of the Estates General was convened in May to address reforms of the monarchy. Dissent arose over whether the three estates would meet separately, as had been tradition, or as one body. The King's acquiescence with the demands of the upper orders led to the deputies of the Third Estate renaming themselves as the National Assembly on 17 June. They were locked out of the meeting hall three days later when they attempted to meet, and forced to reconvene to the royal indoor tennis court. Presided over by Jean-Sylvain Bailly, they made a 'solemn oath never to separate' until a national constitution had been created. In 1789 this event was seen as a symbol of the national unity against the \"ancien regime\". Rejecting the current conditions, the oath signified a new transition in human history and ideology. David was enlisted by the Society of Friends of the Constitution, the body that would eventually form the Jacobins, to enshrine this symbolic event.\n\nThis instance is notable in more ways than one because it eventually led David to finally become involved in politics as he joined the Jacobins. The picture was meant to be massive in scale; the figures in the foreground were to be life-sized portraits of the counterparts, including Jean-Sylvain Bailly, the President of the Constituent Assembly. Seeking additional funding, David turned to the Society of Friends of the Constitution. The funding for the project was to come from over three thousand subscribers hoping to receive a print of the image. However, when the funding was insufficient, the state ended up financing the project.\n\nDavid set out in 1790 to transform the contemporary event into a major historical picture which would appear at the Salon of 1791 as a large pen-and-ink drawing. As in the \"Oath of the Horatii\", David represents the unity of men in the service of a patriotic ideal. The outstretched arms which are prominent in both works betray David's deeply held belief that acts of republican virtue akin to those of the Romans were being played out in France. In what was essentially an act of intellect and reason, David creates an air of drama in this work. The very power of the people appears to be \"blowing\" through the scene with the stormy weather, in a sense alluding to the storm that would be the revolution.\n\nSymbolism in this work of art closely represents the revolutionary events taking place at the time. The figure in the middle is raising his right arm making the oath that they will never disband until they have reached their goal of creating a \"constitution of the realm fixed upon solid foundations.\" The importance of this symbol is highlighted by the fact that the crowd's arms are angled to his hand forming a triangular shape. Additionally, the open space in the top half contrasted to the commotion in the lower half serves to emphasize the magnitude of the Tennis Court Oath.\n\nIn his attempt to depict political events of the Revolution in \"real time\", David was venturing down a new and untrodden path in the art world. However, Thomas Crow argues that this path \"proved to be less a way forward than a cul-de-sac for history painting.\" Essentially, the history of the demise of David's \"The Tennis Court Oath\" illustrates the difficulty of creating works of art that portray current and controversial political occurrences. Political circumstances in France proved too volatile to allow the completion of the painting. The unity that was to be symbolized in \"The Tennis Court Oath\" no longer existed in radicalized 1792. The National Assembly had split between conservatives and radical Jacobins, both vying for political power. By 1792 there was no longer consensus that all the revolutionaries at the tennis court were \"heroes\". A sizeable number of the heroes of 1789 had become the villains of 1792. In this unstable political climate David's work remained unfinished. With only a few nude figures sketched onto the massive canvas, David abandoned \"The Oath of the Tennis Court\". To have completed it would have been politically unsound. After this incident, when David attempted to make a political statement in his paintings, he returned to the less politically charged use of metaphor to convey his message.\n\nWhen Voltaire died in 1778, the church denied him a church burial, and his body was interred near a monastery. A year later, Voltaire's old friends began a campaign to have his body buried in the Panthéon, as church property had been confiscated by the French Government. In 1791, David was appointed to head the organizing committee for the ceremony, a parade through the streets of Paris to the Panthéon. Despite rain and opposition from conservatives due to the amount of money spent, the procession went ahead. Up to 100,000 people watched the \"Father of the Revolution\" being carried to his resting place. This was the first of many large festivals organized by David for the republic. He went on to organize festivals for martyrs that died fighting royalists. These funerals echoed the religious festivals of the pagan Greeks and Romans and are seen by many as Saturnalian.\n\nDavid incorporated many revolutionary symbols into these theatrical performances and orchestrated ceremonial rituals, in effect radicalizing the applied arts themselves. The most popular symbol for which David was responsible as propaganda minister was drawn from classical Greek images; changing and transforming them with contemporary politics. In an elaborate festival held on the anniversary of the revolt that brought the monarchy to its knees, David's Hercules figure was revealed in a procession following the Goddess of Liberty (Marianne). Liberty, the symbol of Enlightenment ideals was here being overturned by the Hercules symbol; that of strength and passion for the protection of the Republic against disunity and factionalism. In his speech during the procession, David \"explicitly emphasized the opposition between people and monarchy; Hercules was chosen, after all, to make this opposition more evident\". The ideals that David linked to his Hercules single-handedly transformed the figure from a sign of the old regime into a powerful new symbol of revolution. \"David turned him into the representation of a collective, popular power. He took one of the favorite signs of monarchy and reproduced, elevated, and monumentalized it into the sign of its opposite.\" Hercules, the image, became to the revolutionaries, something to rally around.\n\nIn June 1791, the King made an ill-fated attempt to flee the country, but was apprehended short of his goal on the Austrian Netherlands border and was forced to return under guard to Paris. Louis XVI had made secret requests to Emperor Leopold II of Austria, Marie-Antoinette's brother, to restore him to his throne. This was granted and Austria threatened France if the royal couple were hurt. In reaction, the people arrested the King. This led to an Invasion after the trials and execution of Louis and Marie-Antoinette. The Bourbon monarchy was destroyed by the French people in 1792—it would be restored after Napoleon, then destroyed again with the Restoration of the House of Bonaparte. When the new National Convention held its first meeting, David was sitting with his friends Jean-Paul Marat and Robespierre. In the Convention, David soon earned a nickname \"ferocious terrorist\". Soon, Robespierre's agents discovered a secret vault of the king's proving he was trying to overthrow the government, and demanded his execution. The National Convention held the trial of Louis XVI and David voted for the death of the King, causing his wife, a royalist, to divorce him.\n\nWhen Louis XVI was executed on 21 January 1793, another man had already died as well—Louis Michel le Peletier de Saint-Fargeau. Le Peletier was killed on the preceding day by a royal bodyguard in revenge for having voted for the death of the King. David was called upon to organize a funeral, and he painted \"Le Peletier Assassinated\". In it, the assassin's sword was seen hanging by a single strand of horsehair above Le Peletier's body, a concept inspired by the proverbial ancient tale of the sword of Damocles, which illustrated the insecurity of power and position. This underscored the courage displayed by Le Peletier and his companions in routing an oppressive king. The sword pierces a piece of paper on which is written \"I vote the death of the tyrant\", and as a tribute at the bottom right of the picture David placed the inscription \"David to Le Peletier. 20 January 1793\". The painting was later destroyed by Le Peletier's royalist daughter, and is known by only a drawing, an engraving, and contemporary accounts. Nevertheless, this work was important in David's career because it was the first completed painting of the French Revolution, made in less than three months, and a work through which he initiated the regeneration process that would continue with \"The Death of Marat\", David's masterpiece.\n\nOn 13 July 1793, David's friend Marat was assassinated by Charlotte Corday with a knife she had hidden in her clothing. She gained entrance to Marat's house on the pretense of presenting him a list of people who should be executed as enemies of France. Marat thanked her and said that they would be guillotined next week upon which Corday immediately fatally stabbed him. She was guillotined shortly thereafter. Corday was of an opposing political party, whose name can be seen in the note Marat holds in David's subsequent painting, \"The Death of Marat\". Marat, a member of the National Convention and a journalist, had a skin disease that caused him to itch horribly. The only relief he could get was in his bath over which he improvised a desk to write his list of suspect counter-revolutionaries who were to be quickly tried and, if convicted, guillotined. David once again organized a spectacular funeral, and Marat was buried in the Panthéon. Marat's body was to be placed upon a Roman bed, his wound displayed and his right arm extended holding the pen which he had used to defend the Republic and its people. This concept was to be complicated by the fact that the corpse had begun to putrefy. Marat's body had to be periodically sprinkled with water and vinegar as the public crowded to see his corpse prior to the funeral on 15 and 16 July. The stench became so bad however that the funeral had to be brought forward to the evening of 16 July.\n\n\"The Death of Marat\", perhaps David's most famous painting, has been called the Pietà of the revolution. Upon presenting the painting to the convention, he said \"Citizens, the people were again calling for their friend; their desolate voice was heard: David, take up your brushes.., avenge Marat... I heard the voice of the people. I obeyed.\" David had to work quickly, but the result was a simple and powerful image.\n\n\"The Death of Marat\", 1793, became the leading image of the Terror and immortalized both Marat and David in the world of the revolution. This piece stands today as \"a moving testimony to what can be achieved when an artist's political convictions are directly manifested in his work\". A political martyr was instantly created as David portrayed Marat with all the marks of the real murder, in a fashion which greatly resembles that of Christ or his disciples. The subject although realistically depicted remains lifeless in a rather supernatural composition. With the surrogate tombstone placed in front of him and the almost holy light cast upon the whole scene; alluding to an out of this world existence. \"Atheists though they were, David and Marat, like so many other fervent social reformers of the modern world, seem to have created a new kind of religion.\" At the very center of these beliefs, there stood the republic.\n\nAfter the King's execution, war broke out between the new Republic and virtually every major power in Europe. David, as a member of the Committee of General Security, contributed directly to the Reign of Terror. David organized his last festival: the festival of the Supreme Being. Robespierre had realized what a tremendous propaganda tool these festivals were, and he decided to create a new religion, mixing moral ideas with the Republic and based on the ideas of Rousseau. This process had already begun by confiscating church lands and requiring priests to take an oath to the state. The festivals, called fêtes, would be the method of indoctrination. On the appointed day, 20 Prairial by the revolutionary calendar, Robespierre spoke, descended steps, and with a torch presented to him by David, incinerated a cardboard image symbolizing atheism, revealing an image of wisdom underneath.\n\nSoon, the war began to go well; French troops marched across the southern half of the Netherlands (which would later become Belgium), and the emergency that had placed the Committee of Public Safety in control was no more. Then plotters seized Robespierre at the National Convention and he was later guillotined, in effect ending the Reign of Terror. As Robespierre was arrested, David yelled to his friend \"if you drink hemlock, I shall drink it with you.\" After this, he supposedly fell ill, and did not attend the evening session because of \"stomach pain\", which saved him from being guillotined along with Robespierre. David was arrested and placed in prison, first from 2 August to 28 December 1794 and then from 29 May to 3 August 1795. There he painted his own portrait, showing him much younger than he actually was, as well as that of his jailer.\n\nAfter David's wife visited him in jail, he conceived the idea of telling the story of The rape of the Sabine women. \"The Sabine Women Enforcing Peace by Running between the Combatants\", also called \"The Intervention of the Sabine Women\" is said to have been painted to honor his wife, with the theme being love prevailing over conflict. The painting was also seen as a plea for the people to reunite after the bloodshed of the revolution.\n\nDavid conceived a new style for this painting, one which he called the \"Pure Greek Style\", as opposed to the \"Roman style\" of his earlier historical paintings. The new style was influenced heavily by the work of art historian Johann Joachim Winckelmann. In David's words, \"the most prominent general characteristics of the Greek masterpieces are a noble simplicity and silent greatness in pose as well as in expression.\" Instead of the muscularity and angularity of the figures of his past works, these were more air-brushed, feminine, and painterly. \nThis work also brought him to the attention of Napoleon. The story for the painting is as follows: \"The Romans have abducted the daughters of their neighbors, the Sabines. To avenge this abduction, the Sabines attacked Rome, although not immediately—since Hersilia, the daughter of Tatius, the leader of the Sabines, had been married to Romulus, the Roman leader, and then had two children by him in the interim. Here we see Hersilia between her father and husband as she adjures the warriors on both sides not to take wives away from their husbands or mothers away from their children. The other Sabine Women join in her exhortations.\" During this time, the martyrs of the Revolution were taken from the Pantheon and buried in common ground, and revolutionary statues were destroyed. When David was finally released to the country, France had changed. His wife managed to get him released from prison, and he wrote letters to his former wife, and told her he never ceased loving her. He remarried her in 1796. Finally, wholly restored to his position, he retreated to his studio, took pupils and for the most part, retired from politics.\n\nIn August 1796, David and many other artists signed a petition orchestrated by Quatremère de Quincy which questioned the wisdom of the planned seizure of works of art from Rome. The Director Barras believed that David was \"tricked\" into signing, although one of David's students recalled that in 1798 his master lamented the fact that masterpieces had been imported from Italy.\n\nDavid's close association with the Committee of Public Safety during the Terror resulted in his signing of the death warrant for Alexandre de Beauharnais, a minor noble. Beauharnais's widow, Joséphine, went on to marry Napoleon Bonaparte and became his empress; David himself depicted their coronation in the \"Coronation of Napoleon and Josephine, 2 December 1804\".\nDavid had been an admirer of Napoleon from their first meeting, struck by Bonaparte's classical features. Requesting a sitting from the busy and impatient general, David was able to sketch Napoleon in 1797. David recorded the face of the conqueror of Italy, but the full composition of Napoleon holding the peace treaty with Austria remains unfinished. Bonaparte had high esteem for David, and asked him to accompany him to Egypt in 1798, but David refused, claiming he was too old for adventuring and sending instead his student, Antoine-Jean Gros.\n\nAfter Napoleon's successful coup d'état in 1799, as First Consul he commissioned David to commemorate his daring crossing of the Alps. The crossing of the St. Bernard Pass had allowed the French to surprise the Austrian army and win victory at the Battle of Marengo on 14 June 1800. Although Napoleon had crossed the Alps on a mule, he requested that he be portrayed \"calm upon a fiery steed\". David complied with \"Napoleon Crossing the Saint-Bernard.\" After the proclamation of the Empire in 1804, David became the official court painter of the regime. During this period he took students, one of whom was the Belgian painter Pieter van Hanselaere.\n\nOne of the works David was commissioned for was \"The Coronation of Napoleon in Notre Dame\". David was permitted to watch the event. He had plans of Notre Dame delivered and participants in the coronation came to his studio to pose individually, though never the Emperor (the only time David obtained a sitting from Napoleon had been in 1797). David did manage to get a private sitting with the Empress Joséphine and Napoleon's sister, Caroline Murat, through the intervention of erstwhile art patron Marshal Joachim Murat, the Emperor's brother-in-law. For his background, David had the choir of Notre Dame act as his fill-in characters. Pope Pius VII came to sit for the painting, and actually blessed David. Napoleon came to see the painter, stared at the canvas for an hour and said \"David, I salute you.\" David had to redo several parts of the painting because of Napoleon's various whims, and for this painting, he received twenty-four thousand Francs.\n\nOn the Bourbons returning to power, David figured in the list of proscribed former revolutionaries and Bonapartists—for having voted execution for the deposed King Louis XVI; and for participating in the death of Louis XVII. Mistreated and starved, the imprisoned Louis XVII was forced into a false confession of incest with his mother, Queen Marie-Antoinette. This was untrue, as the son was separated from his mother early and was not allowed communication with her, nevertheless, the allegation helped earn her the guillotine. The newly restored Bourbon King, Louis XVIII, however, granted amnesty to David and even offered him the position of court painter. David refused, preferring self-exile in Brussels. There, he trained and influenced Brussels artists like François-Joseph Navez and Ignace Brice, painted \"Cupid and Psyche\" and quietly lived the remainder of his life with his wife (whom he had remarried). In that time, he painted smaller-scale mythological scenes, and portraits of citizens of Brussels and Napoleonic émigrés, such as the Baron Gerard.\n\nDavid created his last great work, \"Mars Being Disarmed by Venus and the Three Graces\", from 1822 to 1824. In December 1823, he wrote: \"This is the last picture I want to paint, but I want to surpass myself in it. I will put the date of my seventy-five years on it and afterwards I will never again pick up my brush.\" The finished painting—evoking painted porcelain because of its limpid coloration—was exhibited first in Brussels, then in Paris, where his former students flocked to view it. \nThe exhibition was profitable—13,000 francs, after deducting operating costs, thus, more than 10,000 people visited and viewed the painting. In his later years, David remained in full command of his artistic faculties, even after a stroke in the spring of 1825 disfigured his face and slurred his speech. In June 1825, he resolved to embark on an improved version of his \"Anger of Achilles\" (also known as the \"Sacrifice of Iphigenie\"); the earlier version was completed in 1819 and is now in the collection of the Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth, Texas. David remarked to his friends who visited his studio \"this [painting] is what is killing me\" such was his determination to complete the work, but by October it must have already been well advanced, as his former pupil Gros wrote to congratulate him, having heard reports of the painting's merits. By the time David died, the painting had been completed and the commissioner Ambroise Firmin-Didot brought it back to Paris to include it in the exhibition \"Pour les grecs\" that he had organised and which opened in Paris in April 1826.\n\nWhen David was leaving a theater, a carriage struck him, and he later died, on 29 December 1825. At his death, some portraits were auctioned in Paris, they sold for little; the famous \"Death of Marat\" was exhibited in a secluded room, to avoid outraging public sensibilities. Disallowed return to France for burial, for having been a regicide of King Louis XVI, the body of the painter Jacques-Louis David was buried in Brussels and moved in 1882 to Brussels Cemetery, while some say his heart was buried with his wife at Père Lachaise Cemetery, Paris.\nDavid was made a Chevalier de la Légion d'honneur in 1803. He was promoted to an Officier in 1808. And, in 1815, he was promoted to a Commandant (now Commandeur) de la Légion d'honneur.\n\nThe theme of the oath found in several works like \"The Oath of the Tennis Court\", \"The Distribution of the Eagles\", and \"Leonidas at Thermopylae\", was perhaps inspired by the rituals of Freemasonry. In 1989 during the \"David against David\" conference Albert Boime was able to prove, on the basis of a document dated in 1787, the painter's membership in the \"La Moderation\" Masonic Lodge.\n\nJacques-Louis David's facial abnormalities were traditionally reported to be a consequence of a deep facial sword wound after a fencing incident. These left him with a noticeable asymmetry during facial expression and resulted in his difficulty in eating or speaking (he could not pronounce some consonants such as the letter 'r'). A sword scar wound on the left side of his face is present in his self-portrait and sculptures and corresponds to some of the buccal branches of the facial nerve. An injury to this nerve and its branches are likely to have resulted in the difficulties with his left facial movement.\n\nFurthermore, as a result of this injury, he suffered from a growth on his face that biographers and art historians have defined as a benign tumor. These, however, may have been a granuloma, or even a post-traumatic neuroma. As Simon Schama has pointed out, witty banter and public speaking ability were key aspects of the social culture of 18th-century France. In light of these cultural keystones, David's tumor would have been a heavy obstacle in his social life. David was sometimes referred to as \"David of the Tumor\".\n\nIn addition to his history paintings, David completed a number of privately commissioned portraits. Warren Roberts, among others, has pointed out the contrast between David's \"public style\" of painting, as shown in his history paintings, and his \"private style\", as shown in his portraits. His portraits were characterized by a sense of truth and realism. He focused on defining his subjects’ features and characters without idealizing them. This is different from the style seen in his historical paintings, in which he idealizes his figures’ features and bodies to align with Greek and Roman ideals of beauty. He puts a great deal of detail into his portraits, defining smaller features like hands and fabric. The compositions of his portraits remain simple with blank backgrounds that allow the viewer to focus on the details of the subject.\n\nThe portrait he did of his wife (1813) is an example of his typical portrait style. The background is dark and simple without any clues as to the setting, which forces the viewer to focus entirely on her. Her features are un-idealized and truthful to her appearance. There is a great amount of detail that can be seen in his attention to portraying the satin material of the dress she wears, the drapery of the scarf around her, and her hands which rest in her lap. \nIn the painting of Brutus (1789), the man and his wife are separated, both morally and physically. Paintings like these, depicting the great strength of patriotic sacrifice, made David a popular hero of the revolution.\n\nIn the \"Portrait of Antoine-Laurent Lavoisier and his wife\" (1788), the man and his wife are tied together in an intimate pose. She leans on his shoulder while he pauses from his work to look up at her. David casts them in a soft light, not in the sharp contrast of Brutus or of the Horatii. Also of interest—Lavoisier was a tax collector, as well as a famous chemist. Though he spent some of his money trying to clean up swamps and eradicate malaria, he was nonetheless sent to the guillotine during the Reign of Terror as an enemy of the people. David, then a powerful member of the National Assembly, stood idly by and watched.\n\nOther portraits include paintings of his sister-in-law and her husband, Madame and Monsieur Seriziat. The picture of Monsieur Seriziat depicts a man of wealth, sitting comfortably with his horse-riding equipment. The picture of the Madame shows her wearing an unadorned white dress, holding her young child's hand as they lean against a bed. David painted these portraits of Madame and Monsieur Seriziat out of gratitude for letting him stay with them after he was in jail.\n\nTowards the end of David's life, he painted a portrait of his old friend \"Abbé Sieyès\". Both had been involved in the Revolution, both had survived the purging of political radicals that followed the reign of terror. \n\nThe shift in David's perspective played an important role in the paintings of David's later life, including this one of Sieyès. During the height of the reign of terror, David was an ardent supporter of radicals such as Robespierre and Marat, and twice offered up his life in their defense. He organized revolutionary festivals and painted portraits of martyrs of the revolution, such as Lepeletier, who was assassinated for voting for the death of the king. David was an impassioned speaker at times in the National Assembly. In speaking to the Assembly about the young boy named Bara, another martyr of the revolution, David said, \"O Bara! O Viala! The blood that you have spread still smokes; it rises toward Heaven and cries for vengeance.\"\n\nAfter Robespierre was sent to the guillotine, however, David was imprisoned and changed the attitude of his rhetoric. During his imprisonment he wrote many letters, pleading his innocence. In one he wrote, \"I am prevented from returning to my atelier, which, alas, I should never have left. I believed that in accepting the most honorable position, but very difficult to fill, that of legislator, that a righteous heart would suffice, but I lacked the second quality, understanding.\"\n\nLater, while explaining his developing \"Grecian style\" for paintings such as \"The Intervention of the Sabine Women\", David further commented on a shift in attitude: \"In all human activity the violent and transitory develops first; repose and profundity appear last. The recognition of these latter qualities requires time; only great masters have them, while their pupils have access only to violent passions.\"\n\nJacques-Louis David was, in his time, regarded as the leading painter in France, and arguably all of Western Europe; many of the painters honored by the restored Bourbons following the French Revolution had been David's pupils. David's student Antoine-Jean Gros for example, was made a Baron and honored by Napoleon Bonaparte's court. Another pupil of David's, Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres became the most important artist of the restored Royal Academy and the figurehead of the Neoclassical school of art, engaging the increasingly popular Romantic school of art that was beginning to challenge Neoclassicism. David invested in the formation of young artists for the Rome Prize, which was also a way to pursue his old rivalry with other contemporary painters such as Joseph-Benoît Suvée, who had also started teaching classes. To be one of David's students was considered prestigious and earned his students a lifetime reputation. He also called on the more advanced students, such as Jérôme-Martin Langlois, to help him paint his large canvases.\n\nDespite David's reputation, he was more fiercely criticized right after his death than at any point during his life. His style came under the most serious criticism for being static, rigid, and uniform throughout all his work. David's art was also attacked for being cold and lacking warmth. David, however, made his career precisely by challenging what he saw as the earlier rigidity and conformity of the French Royal Academy's approach to art. David's later works also reflect his growth in the development of the Empire style, notable for its dynamism and warm colors. It is likely that much of the criticism of David following his death came from David's opponents; during his lifetime David made a great many enemies with his competitive and arrogant personality as well as his role in the Terror. David sent many people to the guillotine and personally signed the death warrants for King Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette. One significant episode in David's political career that earned him a great deal of contempt was the execution of Emilie Chalgrin. A fellow painter Carle Vernet had approached David, who was on the Committee of Public Safety, requesting him to intervene on behalf of his sister, Chalgrin. She had been accused of crimes against the Republic, most notably possessing stolen items. David refused to intervene in her favor, and she was executed. Vernet blamed David for her death, and the episode followed him for the rest of his life and after.\n\nIn the last 50 years David has enjoyed a revival in popular favor and in 1948 his two-hundredth birthday was celebrated with an exhibition at the Musée de l'Orangerie in Paris and at Versailles showing his life's works. Following World War II, Jacques-Louis David was increasingly regarded as a symbol of French national pride and identity, as well as a vital force in the development of European and French art in the modern era.\n\nThe birth of Romanticism is traditionally credited to the paintings of eighteenth century French artists such as Jacques-Louis David. \n\n\"Danton\" (Andrzej Wajda, France, 1982) – Historical drama. Many scenes include David as a silent character watching and drawing. The film focuses on the period of the Terror.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4182139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4182139", "title": "Košice Self-governing Region", "text": "Košice Self-governing Region\n\nThe Košice Self-governing Region (, \"KSK\") or the Košice Higher Territorial Unit (Slovak: \"Košický vyšší územný celok\", \"KVÚC\") is one of Slovakia's eight \"self-governing regions\" whose territory is identical with that of the administrative Košice Region.\n\nThe establishing session of the first Council of the Košice Self-governing Region was held on December 19, 2001 in the historical hall of former \"Župný dom\" (County House, today's East Slovak Gallery building) with the participation of 57 deputies elected in the first regional elections for the second level of self-government in Slovakia. Rudolf Bauer (a Christian democrat) was elected as the first president of the Košice Self-governing Region. His successor is Zdenko Trebuľa (a social democrat) elected for the president of the Košice Self-governing Region on December 10, 2005. He was inaugurated on January 9, 2006.\n\nThe seat of the Košice Self-governing Region is a former military headquarters building (generally known as \"The Division\") on the eastern part of the \"Námestie Maratónu mieru\" (Peace Marathon Square) in Košice. It was completed in 1908 as the largest and the most modern building in the town at that time.\n\n"}
{"id": "46281688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46281688", "title": "Land reform in Prussia", "text": "Land reform in Prussia\n\nSeveral land reforms were done in Prussia, beginning at 1763, in order to liberate the peasants from the bondages of Feudalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3182956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3182956", "title": "Land registration", "text": "Land registration\n\nLand registration generally describes systems by which matters concerning ownership, possession or other rights in land can be recorded (usually with a government agency or department) to provide evidence of title, facilitate transactions and to prevent unlawful disposal. The information recorded and the protection provided will vary by jurisdiction.\n\nIn common law countries, particularly in jurisdictions in the Commonwealth of Nations, when replacing the deeds registration system, title registrations are broadly classified into two basic types: the Torrens title system and the English system, a modified version of the Torrens system.\n\nCadastre and land registration are both types of land recording and complement each other.\n\nThe Falkland Islands registry holds copies of all Crown Grants from 1844.\n\nFinland operates a cadastral system operated by the National Land Survey of Finland \n\nThe French system uses a cadastre, maintained by the French public land registry. The plans are boundaries of land parcels but do not provide details of the land owner or precise boundaries.\n\nThe Hong Kong Land Registry administers the Land Registration Ordinance and provides facilities for search of the Land Register and related records by the public and government departments. It has responsibility for the registration of owners corporations under the Building Management Ordinance.\n\nLand registration is compulsory across all of Ireland, and two parallel registries are maintained: the Land Registry (Clárlann na Talún in Irish) and the Registry of Deeds (Clárlann na nGníomhas).\n\nThe system in Ireland follows the English system, but with features typical of the Torrens system (for example, anyone can inspect the register). Robert Torrens himself drafted the Record of Title (Ireland) Act, 1865 in order to record titles conveyed. The Landed Estates Court a register, the \"Record of Title\". While the record was not open to the public, the index could be inspected by anyone, today the index and folios can be viewed by anyone with an administration charge. Recording of title under the Act was voluntary and this was one of the reasons why the Act proved ineffective.\n\nThe Land Registry has been dealing with the registration of all transactions (purchase, sale, mortgage, remortgage and other burdens) concerning \"registered land\" since 1892, and issued \"land certificates\" which are a state guarantee of the registered owner's good title up to 1 January 2007. Land Certificates have been abolished by virtue of Section 23 of the Registration of Deeds and Title Act, 2006. Every piece of land in the register — which is arranged by county — is granted a folio number, under which all transactions pertaining to the land can be examined on request and after payment of a fee. Approximately 90% of land by area, and 85% of title, is registered.\n\nThe Registry of Deeds has since 1708 dealt with the registration of wills, title deeds, mortgage documents and other documentation concerning granting of title over land. It was originally set up to enforce the legislation regarding ownership of land by Catholics. A registered deed took precedence over an unregistered deed. Original deeds and their schedules were not retained by the registry, but rather detailed summaries (called \"memorials\") of conveyancing and mortgage documents are stamped and filed by the registrar. These documents are generally signed by at least one of the parties and one of the witnesses of the deeds. No certificates or guarantees of title are issued: the registry merely endeavours to provide information concerning the deeds lodged against a certain property — and, crucially, the order in which they were lodged — such as the last named owner or the latest mortgage to be lodged.\n\nBoth registries are managed by the Property Registration Authority and have offices in Dublin, Waterford and in Roscommon. Since most of Ireland gained independence in 1922, the registries have dealt with the land in the 26 counties of the Republic of Ireland (formerly the Irish Free State, 1922–37) only, the registers of land in Northern Ireland now being administered by the Land and Property Services in the Northern Ireland Department of Finance and Personnel.\n\nRecording of title under recent legislative changes is now compulsory. Public access to the index and folios is limited to individuals who have an account with the Property Registration Authority.\n\nThe Property Registration Authority in Ireland is connected to the European Land Information Service EULIS.\n\nNew Zealand uses the Torrens title system, which it adopted in 1870, replacing the deeds registration system. Land registration is governed by the Land Transfer Act 1952.\n\nThe Deeds system was introduced in 1841 and the Torrens system in 1870. Both methods ran in parallel until 1924 when registration under the Land Transfer Act (Torrens system) became compulsory and a project to issue titles for all property was instituted. A title could be issued \"Limited as to Title\" or \"Limited as to Parcel\" if there were doubts about the ownership or the survey.\n\nContent in this edit is translated from the existing Russian Wikipedia article at ; see its history for attribution.\nAdvantages of the Torrens system were seen in Russia almost immediately after its occurrence , but scrapped the Russian legal system for the overthrow of the Provisional Government and the dispersal of the Constituent Assembly did all ideas Russian imperial jurists consigned to history.\nNow operating the system of accounting and registration of rights to immovable property in Russia can not be called a complete system or Torrens cadastral system, although some of its elements and principles correspond to the Torrens title. Accounting for land, buildings and natural sites organized in Russia in the database of real estate cadastre of the State on the basis of a federal law in 2007 № 221-FZ \"On State Real Estate Cadastre\". The account holder of these facilities is conducted in another database: the Unified State Register of rights to immovable property and transactions with them on the basis of a federal law in 1997 № 122-FZ \"On State Registration of Rights to Real Estate and Transactions Therewith\". Both laws established openness cadastre and registry information, and assigned to a single organization responsible for their management - Rosreestr . Entry in the Unified State Register of real property rights is a necessary and sufficient condition for the emergence of property rights to real estate. For information about the property, contained in the cadastre and registry, sufficiently detailed and structured cover most essential information about an object runs open cadastral map. With a fairly simple web forms can be found and read a part of the information on any object property .These laws are not, however, establish an immediate full liability of the state for the correctness of the information contained in databases.\nIn 2015, the State Duma has been registered a bill that covers public access to information about the owners of the property . The bill was supported by the Government . According to some experts, the restriction of information openness reduces the chances of identifying the public cases of illegal enrichment and increases business risks . .\n\nIn the United Kingdom there are several land registers, including HM Land Registry for England and Wales, Registers of Scotland, and Land and Property Services in Northern Ireland.\n\nA national system of land registration was first attempted in England and Wales under the Land Registration Act 1862, a register having operated for the county of Middlesex (excluding the City of London) since 1709. This voluntary national system proved ineffective and, following further attempts in 1875 and 1897, the present system was brought into force by the Land Registration Act 1925. It is operated by \"HM Land Registry\".\n\nOver time various areas of the country were designated areas of compulsory registration by order so in different parts of the country compulsory registration has been around longer than in others. The last order was made in 1990, so now virtually all transactions in land result in compulsory registration. One difference is land changing ownership after death, where land is gifted rather than sold; these became compulsorily registrable only in April 1998. Similarly it became compulsory to register land when a mortgage is created on it in 1998.\n\nThe Land Registration Act 2002 leaves the 1925 system substantially in place but enables the future compulsory introduction of electronic conveyancing using electronic signatures to transfer and register property.\n\nThe Land Registry is connected to the European Land Information Service EULIS.\n\nDetails of registrations are available to any person upon payment of the prescribed fees. Precautionary measures have been introduced in recent years to verify the identity of persons attempting to change records of title. No details will be on record for any land which has not had a relevant transaction recorded as will often occur if, for example, ownership was last transferred before the introduction of compulsory registration in a particular area. Public access to the title and filed plans in pdf format is available for a fee at Land Registry of England and Wales. Public access to a digital version of the boundaries on aerial photography is available at .\n\nA legal boundary deals with the precise separation of ownership of land. It is an invisible line dividing one person's land from another's. It does not have thickness or width and usually, but not always, falls somewhere in or along a physical boundary feature such as a wall, fence or hedge. The exact positions of the legal boundaries are almost never shown on registered title plans and are not shown on Ordnance Survey maps.\n\nIn a joint statement between Land Registry (England and Wales) and Ordnance Survey they state that:\n\nScotland is one of the first countries in the world to have a system of land registration. Land registration commenced in Scotland with the creation of the \"Register of Sasines\" by the Registration Act 1617.\n\nToday, almost all land in Scotland is registered in the Register of Sasines making it possible (but, because of the mapping limitations of that register, sometimes difficult) to determine who owns what.\n\nSince 1981 the Register of Sasines is being replaced by the Registers of Scotland, although certain deeds can continue to be recorded in the old register for the time being. The Registers of Scotland agency is responsible for maintaining both the Register of Sasines and the new register.\n\nThe governing legislation is the Land Registration etc. (Scotland) Act 2012, replacing the earlier Land Registration (Scotland) Act 1979. The Land Registration (Scotland) Act 1979 introduced a new system which now records all changes of ownership of land and creation of new titles.\n\nScotland is divided into 33 registration counties. The Land Register was introduced in a rolling programme beginning with Renfrew in 1981 and finishing in 2003 with Banff, Caithness, Moray, Orkney and Shetland. The scheme is that, once a county becomes operational for the Land Register, properties switch from the Sasine to the Land Register on the first occasion that they are transferred. The switching process is known as first registration. According to the latest figures, some 55% (1.4 million) of all properties are now on the Land Register. This represents only 21% of the land mass although there is considerable variation throughout the 33 registration counties. In Glasgow and its conurbation the figure is over 50%, reflecting both its urban nature and the relatively early date at which it was brought on to the Register.\n\nLand registration in Northern Ireland is operated by \"Land and Property Services\", an executive agency within the Department of Finance and Personnel for Northern Ireland. Prior to 1 Apr 2007 it was dealt with by the \"Land Registers Northern Ireland\" government agency.\n\nLand registration is a matter for individual states in the USA. Thus each state will define the officials, authorities, and their functions and duties with respect to the ownership of land within that state, as is more fully described in the specified main article.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47779402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47779402", "title": "Library Freedom Project", "text": "Library Freedom Project\n\nThe Library Freedom Project teaches librarians about surveillance threats, privacy rights, and digital tools to thwart surveillance. In 2015 the Project began an endeavour to place relays and, particularly, exit nodes of the Tor anonymity network in public libraries.\n\nIts pilot project enabled the Kilton Public Library in Lebanon, New Hampshire to become in July 2015 the first library in the United States to host Tor, running a middle relay on its excess bandwidth. This service was put on hold in early September, however, when the library was visited by the local police department after they had received a \"heads up\" e-mail from Department of Homeland Security highlighting the criminal uses of the Tor network (and which falsely claimed that this was the network's primary usage), whereupon the library began reconsidering the deployment from a public relations perspective.\n\nAfter an outpouring of support from the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the Massachusetts and New Hampshire affiliates of the ACLU, the Tor Project itself, an editorial in the local paper Valley News strongly in favor of the pilot project, and virtually unanimous public testimony, the library board of trustees decided on 15 September 2015 to renew the anonymity service, letting stand its previous unanimous vote to establish the middle relay. A dozen libraries and their supporters nationwide expressed interest hosting their own nodes after the DHS involvement became public (an example of the Streisand effect), and U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif) released a letter on 10 December 2015, in which she asked the DHS to clarify its procedures, stating that “While the Kilton Public Library’s board ultimately voted to restore their Tor relay, I am no less disturbed by the possibility that DHS employers are pressuring or persuading public and private entities to discontinue or degrade services that protect the privacy and anonymity of U.S. citizens.”\n\nIn March 2016, New Hampshire state representative Keith Ammon introduced a bill allowing public libraries to run privacy software such as Tor which specifically referenced Tor itself. The bill was crafted with extensive input from Library Freedom director Alison Macrina, and was the direct result of the Kilton Public Library imbroglio. The bill was passed by the House 268-62.\n\nAlso in March 2016, the first Tor middle relay at a library in Canada was established, at the University of Western Ontario. Given that the running of a Tor exit node is an unsettled area of Canadian law, and that institutions are more capable than individuals to cope with legal pressures, Alison Macrina has opined that in some ways she would like to see intelligence agencies and law enforcement attempt to intervene in the event that an exit node were established.\n\nAlso in March 2016, the Library Freedom Project was awarded the Free Software Foundation's 2015 \nFree Software Award for Projects of Social Benefit at MIT.\n\nAs of 26 June 2016, the Kilton Library is the only library in the U.S. running a Tor exit node. However, in August of that same year, Kilton Library's IT Manager, Chuck McAndrew, said they still hoped other libraries would run their own, adding, \"We always planned on our library simply being the pilot for a larger nationwide program. Like everything, this will take time. We continue to talk to other libraries, and the Library Freedom Project is actively working with a number of libraries that have an interest in participating.\"\n\n Working with ACLU affiliates across the country, the Library Freedom Project provides workshops to educate librarians about \"some of the major surveillance programs and authorizations, including the USA PATRIOT Act, section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act, PRISM, XKEYSCORE, and more, connecting the NSA’s dragnet with FBI and local police surveillance\". They also discuss current and developing privacy law on both the federal and state levels, in addition to advising librarians how to handle issues like gag orders and National Security Letters. Other topics covered include Privacy Enhancing Technology (PET) that might help library patrons browse anonymously or evade online tracking.\n\nFurthermore, the project conducts training classes for library patrons themselves which focus on on-line security and privacy. The classes can be adjusted to accommodate any level of user, from beginner to advanced, and various security needs. Given that library patrons, including but not limited to domestic violence survivors, political activists, whistle blowers, journalists, and LGBT teens or adults in many communities, face various threat models, the gestalt of digital security is not a matter of one-size-fits-all. In this regard Alison Macrina has remarked at a library conference that \" “Digital security isn’t about which tools you use; rather, it’s about understanding the threats you face and how you can counter those threats. To become more secure, you must determine what you need to protect, and whom you need to protect it from. Threats can change depending on where you’re located, what you’re doing, and whom you’re working with.”\n\nThe Library Freedom Project is a member of the torservers.net network, an organization of nonprofits which specializes in the general establishment of exit nodes via workshops and donations.\n\nIn January 2015 the Library Freedom Project received $244,700 in grant funding from the Knight Foundation, and in January 2016 $50,000 from the Rose Foundation's Consumer Privacy Rights Fund (the fiscal sponsor of that grant being the Miami Foundation).\n\nIn August 2017 the Library Freedom Project was awarded a $249,504 grant from the Laura Bush 21st Century Librarian Program to facilitate the use of practical privacy tools in libraries using a \"training the trainers\" model. 40 geographically dispersed Privacy Advocates are expected to be trained in a six month course. New York University (NYU) and the Library Freedom Project have since created a formal collaborative program funded by the Institute of Museum and Library Services called Library Freedom Institute; its inaugural course is expected to begin in June 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "24944282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24944282", "title": "List of Soviet Union–United States summits", "text": "List of Soviet Union–United States summits\n\nSoviet Union–United States summits were held from 1943 to 1991. The topics discussed at the summits between the President of the United States and either the General Secretary or the Premier of the Soviet Union ranged from fighting the Axis Powers during World War II to arms control between the two superpowers themselves during the Cold War.\n\n"}
{"id": "3798726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3798726", "title": "May Day riots of 1894", "text": "May Day riots of 1894\n\nThe May Day riots of 1894 were a series of violent demonstrations that occurred throughout Cleveland, Ohio on May 1, 1894 (May Day). Cleveland's unemployment rate increased dramatically during the Panic of 1893. Finally, riots broke out among the unemployed who condemned city leaders for their ineffective relief measures. According to the New York Times, \"[t]he desire to stop work seemed to take possession of every laborer...\" on May Day of 1894.\n\nMay Day, or International Workers' Day was a day for remembering the workers who died during the Haymarket affair of 1886. During a General Strike in Chicago, Illinois, an unknown person threw a bomb into the crowd, prompting police to fire into the crowd, killing civilians and police alike. The same day in 1890, Raymond Lavigne called for international demonstrations to commemorate the day. In 1894 the Pullman Strike in Illinois, as well as this series of unemployed workers' riots on May Day in Cleveland, prompted U.S. President Grover Cleveland to propose a bill that would make a Labor Day a national public holiday. After the Haymarket Square riot in May, 1886, US President Grover Cleveland \nfeared that commemorating Labor Day on May 1 could become an opportunity to commemorate the riots. May Day celebrations have diminished in the United States, because of the creation of Labor Day.\n\nOne of the major causes of the riots was the Panic of 1893. The panic precipitated one of the most severe depressions in American History. The closure of two major railroads and other major companies triggered a stock market collapse. The New York banks had heavily invested in the stock market, and bank failures soon began. This caused a contraction of credit, and many other, newer, businesses started to shut down as well. The depression produced widespread social unrest, mostly among the now-unemployed workers. Some people tried to create public works programs for the unemployed, but this was unsuccessful.\n\nThe riot is now known to have associations with left-wing politics and communism. The Red Scare followed soon after the riots.\n\nThe riots of 1894, along with the Haymarket Affair, brought about a series of discussions about the workforce in America and the depression. In 1904, the International Socialist Conference meeting in Amsterdam called on \"all Social Democratic Party organizations and trade unions of all countries to demonstrate energetically on May First for the legal establishment of the 8-hour day, for the class demands of the proletariat, and for universal peace.\" The congress made it \"mandatory upon the proletarian organizations of all countries to stop work on May 1, wherever it is possible without injury to the workers.\"\n\nThe city was suffering from an economic crisis. Eventually scores of people lost their jobs and this led to the massive demonstrations and rallies. These became violent and led to confrontations with authorities. The mob consisted of around 4 000 men, who were said to be \"a rabble made up chiefly of foreigners\". The mob marched through the manufacturing district of the city, called \"The Flats\" armed with clubs and stones. Much property was destroyed, but they were ultimately taken down by the police. Men with flags shouted to the crowd to encourage them to join the riots, but only about a dozen boys joined them. The square was abandoned as the mob marched on. The crowd was \"hooting and jeering those who didn't join them.\"\n\nThey then attacked firemen, believing they were police. The firemen held their ground as clubs flew. They soon met up with the leader of the mob, who encouraged them to keep peace; he was ignored. They entered the foundry department, where workmen were forced to halt. One man attempted to restart his work, but was held by mob members while others fled from the building. Shops were closed and barred, while employees fled\n\nMobmen all ran at the Standard Paint Works with the cry \"Victory!\" The workers of the shop joined the ranks of the men in their attack of the Upson Nut Works. People threw coal at the shop, breaking windows and knocking down workers before they had the chance to retreat. Many men on the inside of the factory were injured in the raid. The coal-throwing stopped as the mob rushed the gates. This slight resistance made the mob take \"vengeance by tearing the doors and gates to pieces.\" The men then took complete possession over the building, and workers fled in terror. Everything breakable in the shop was destroyed. They left the destroyed shop and went down the railroad tracks to the main office of the company.\n\nThe police came, which deterred the mob for a short period of time. They took over the coal carts and used them as barriers as they surrounded the police; they threw stones at them. Some of the rioters were scared by the presence of the police, and fled. The crowd of 5 000 \"dwindled to half that number.\" The leaders of the riot planned an attack on the Faulhaber Furniture Company; but the police stopped them before there could be a repeat of the event at the Upson factory. The police grew to such numbers that they \"presented a formidable appearance.\" They dispersed the rioters and arrested their leader, Tom Moore.\n\nThe eastern part of the city was little better off. A throng of 200 Italians marched through the streets armed with clubs, iron and wire rods, and gate posts. At Gates's quarry there were speeches and threats; workers dropped their tools and joined them. The same speeches and threats were made at Neff's quarry, and more men joined. At Reader's quarry, there was little opposition. They broke into boarding houses and compelled more to join them.\n\nThe Mayor urged the people not to riot, and called for police forces to be assembled. The stated that the city would use every power to maintain law and order. Armories were prepared for discharge at the mayor's order.\n\nAnother mob forced the workers of the United Salt Company out. They proceeded to the Cleveland Rolling Mills where they met by the police. After several minutes of serious clubbing, the mob dispersed in every direction. Seven men, all with broken heads, were arrested.\n\nPolicemen were stationed in the public square to prevent any gathering there. There was also considerable fear that the rioters would gather the dynamite used by the railroad companies to blow up factories and private residences; however, there is no evidence that they did so.\n\n"}
{"id": "305847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305847", "title": "Megali Idea", "text": "Megali Idea\n\nThe Megali Idea (, \"Megáli Idéa\", \"Great Idea\") was an irredentist concept of Greek nationalism that expressed the goal of establishing a Greek state that would encompass all historically ethnic Greek-inhabited areas, including the large Greek populations that were still under Ottoman rule after the end of the Greek War of Independence (1821–1828) and all the regions that traditionally belonged to Greeks in ancient times (the Southern Balkans, Anatolia and Cyprus).\n\nThe term appeared for the first time during the debates of Prime Minister Ioannis Kolettis with King Otto that preceded the promulgation of the 1844 constitution. This was a visionary nationalist aspiration that was to dominate foreign relations and, to a significant extent, determine domestic politics of the Greek state for much of the first century of independence. The expression was new in 1844 but the concept had roots in the Greek popular psyche. It long had hopes of liberation from Turkish rule and restoration of the Byzantine Empire.\n\nΠάλι με χρόνια με καιρούς,\n(\"Once more, as years and time go by, once more they shall be ours\").\n\nThe \"Megali Idea\" implied the goal of reviving the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire, by establishing a Greek state, which would be, as ancient geographer Strabo wrote, a Greek world encompassing mostly the former Byzantine lands from the Ionian Sea to the west, to Asia Minor and the Black Sea to the east and from Thrace, Macedonia and Epirus to the north, to Crete and Cyprus to the south. This new state would have Constantinople as its capital: it would be the \"Greece of Two Continents and Five Seas\" (Europe and Asia, the Ionian, Aegean, Marmara, Black and Libyan seas, respectively).\n\nThe \"Megali Idea\" dominated foreign policy and domestic politics of Greece from the War of Independence in the 1820s through the Balkan wars in the beginning of the 20th century. It started to fade after the defeat of Greece in the Greco-Turkish War (1919–1922) and the Great Fire of Smyrna in 1922, followed by the Population exchange between Greece and Turkey in 1923. Despite the end of the Megali Idea project in 1922, the Greek state expanded five times in its history, either through military conquest or diplomacy (often with British support). After the creation of Greece in 1830, it later annexed the Ionian Islands (Treaty of London, 1864), Thessaly (Convention of Constantinople (1881)), Macedonia, Crete, southern Epirus and the Eastern Aegean Islands (Treaty of Bucharest (1913)), Western Thrace (Treaty of Neuilly, 1920) and the Dodecanese (Treaty of Peace with Italy, 1947), making them Greek territory.\n\nThough the Byzantine Empire was Roman in origin and was called the \"Roman Empire\" by its inhabitants and the entire world, until some 120 years after its fall, when Hieronymus Wolf coined the usage of Byzantium. It became Hellenistic with time to the point where Greek replaced Latin as the official language in AD 610, owing to several factors: Its religion, being Christian, with the New Testament written in Greek; its location in the Greek-speaking realm and sphere of influence; and the fact that, following the fall of the Western Roman Empire, it became the eastern continuation of the Roman Empire. Byzantium held out against the invasions of the centuries with a vitality that the Western Roman Empire lost, repelling the Visigoths, the Huns, the Saracens, the Mongols and finally the Turks (during the first siege). Constantinople, the capital of Byzantium, fell to the Fourth Crusaders in the early years of the 13th century. The city was eventually liberated by the Empire of Nicaea, a Byzantine successor, and the Empire was restored. However, the city fell to a different foe in 1453—the Ottoman Turks—and this fall of Constantinople marked the nadir of Byzantine civilization; the city was comprehensively sacked and looted; the Hagia Sophia was turned into a mosque. Following the conquest of Constantinople, the capture of the remainder of the Byzantine territories was easily accomplished by the Ottomans.\n\nIn the Millet system in force during the Ottoman empire, the population was classified according to religion rather than language or ethnicity. Orthodox Greeks were seen as part of the \"millet-i Rûm\" (literally \"Roman community\") which included all Orthodox Christians, including besides Greeks also Bulgarians, Serbs, Vlachs, Slavs, Georgians, Arabs, Romanians and Albanians, despite their differences in ethnicity and language and despite the fact that the religious hierarchy was Greek dominated. It is not clear to what extent one can speak of a Greek identity during those times as opposed to a Christian or Orthodox identity. In the late 1780s, Catherine II of Russia and Joseph II of Austria intended to reclaim the Byzantine heritage and restore the Greek statehood as part of their joint Greek Plan.\n\nIt is notable that during the Middle Ages and the Ottoman period, Greek-speaking Christians identified as \"Romans\" and thought of themselves as the descendants of the Roman Empire (including the Medieval Eastern Roman Empire). Indeed, the term \"Roman\" was often interpreted as synonymous with \"Christian\" throughout Europe and the Mediterranean during this time. The terms \"Greek\" or \"Hellene\" were largely seen by Ottoman Christians as referring to the ancient pagan peoples of the region. This, however, changed during the late stages of the Ottoman Empire and the emergence of the Greek independence movement.\n\nAfter the Greek War of Independence ended in 1829, a new Southern Greek state was established, with assistance from the United Kingdom, France and Imperial Russia. However, this new Greek state under John Capodistria after the Greek War of Independence was, with Serbia, one of the only two countries of the era whose population was smaller than the population of the same ethnicity outside its borders; most of ethnic Greeks still resided within the borders of Ottoman Empire. This version of Greece was designed by the Great Powers, who had no desire to see a larger Greek state supplant the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe Great Idea embodied a desire to bring all ethnic Greeks into the Greek state, and subsequently revive the Byzantine Empire; specifically those Greeks in Epirus, Thessaly, Macedonia, Thrace, the Aegean Islands, Crete, Cyprus, parts of Anatolia, and the city of Constantinople, which would replace Athens as capital.\n\nWhen the young Danish prince Wilhelm Georg was elected king in 1863, the title offered to him by the Greek National Assembly was \"not\" \"King of Greece\", the title of his deposed predecessor, King Otto; but rather \"King of \"the Hellenes\"\". Implicit in the wording was that George I was to be king of all Greeks, regardless of whether they then lived within the borders of his new kingdom.\n\nThe first areas to be incorporated into the Kingdom were the Ionian islands in 1864, and later Thessaly with the Treaty of Berlin (1878).\n\nIn January 1897, violence and disorder were escalating in Crete, polarizing the population. Massacres of the Christian population took place in Chania and Rethimno. The Greek government, pressured by public opinion, intransigent political elements, extreme nationalist groups (e.g. Ethniki Etairia) and with the Great Powers reluctant to intervene, decided to send warships and personnel to assist the Cretans. The Great Powers had no option then but to proceed with the occupation of the island, but they were too late. A Greek force of 1,500 men had landed at Kolymbari on 1 February 1897, and its commanding officer, Colonel Timoleon Vassos, declared that he was taking over the island \"in the name of the King of the Hellenes\" and that he was announcing the union of Crete with Greece. This led to an uprising that spread immediately throughout the island. The Great Powers finally decided to land their troops and stopped the Greek army force from approaching Chania. At the same time their fleets blockaded Crete, preventing both Greeks and Turks from bringing any more troops to the island.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire, in reaction to the rebellion of Crete and the assistance sent by Greece, relocated a significant part of its army in the Balkans to the north of Thessaly, close to the borders with Greece. Greece in reply reinforced its borders in Thessaly. However, irregular Greek forces and followers of the Megali Idea acted without orders and raided Turkish outposts, leading the Ottoman Empire to declare war on Greece; the war is known as the Greco-Turkish War of 1897. The Turkish army, far outnumbering the Greek, was also better prepared, due to the recent reforms carried out by a German mission under Baron von der Goltz. The Greek army fell back in retreat. The other Great Powers then intervened and an armistice was signed in May 1897. The war, however, only ended in December of that year.\n\nThe military defeat of Greece in the Greco-Turkish war cost it small territorial losses along the border line in northern Thessaly, and a large sum of financial reparations that wrecked Greece's economy for years, while giving no lasting solution to the Cretan Question. The Great Powers (Britain, France, Russia, and Italy) in order to prevent future clashes and trying to avoid the creation of a revanchist climate in Greece, imposed what they thought of as the final solution on the Cretan Question: Crete was proclaimed an autonomous \"Cretan State\". The four Great Powers assumed the administration of Crete; and, in a decisive diplomatic victory for Greece, Prince George of Greece (second son of King George I) became High Commissioner.\n\nA major proponent of the Megali Idea was Eleftherios Venizelos, under whose leadership Greek territory doubled in the Balkan Wars of 1912–13 — southern Epirus, Crete, Lesbos, Chios, Samos along with the totality of Aegean Islands and the majority of Macedonia were attached to Greece. Born and raised in Crete, in 1909 Venizelos was already a prominent Cretan and had influence in mainland Greece. As such, he was chosen after the Goudi coup in 1909 to become Prime Minister of Greece. A proponent of the \"Megali Idea\", Venizelos pressed forward a series of reforms in society, as well as the military and administration, which helped Greece succeed in its goals during the Balkan Wars.\n\nThe ongoing Greek genocide and refugees speaking of Turkish atrocities as well as a victory in World War I seemed to promise an even greater realization of the Megali Idea. Greece gained in Asia Minor the administration of Smyrna and its hinterland for five years (after with a referendum it could be incorporated), the islands of Imbros and Tenedos, Western and Eastern Thrace, the border then drawn a few miles from the walls of Constantinople: the Imperial City seemed within reach.\n\nA major defeat followed in 1922, however, when the Turkish revolutionaries defeated and expelled the Greeks from Anatolia during the Greco-Turkish War (1919-1922). The Treaty of Lausanne saw Greece lose Eastern Thrace, Imbros and Tenedos, Smyrna and the possibility of staying in Anatolia. To avoid any further territorial claims, both Greece and Turkey engaged in an \"exchange of populations\": During the conflict, 151,892 Greeks had already fled Asia Minor. The Treaty of Lausanne moved 1,104,216 Greeks from Turkey, while 380,000 Turks left the Greek territory for Turkey. Also, in Greece had also moved (after WWI) 40,027 Greeks from Bulgaria, 58,522 from Russia (because of the defeat of Wrangel) and 10,080 from other lands (for example Dodecanese or Albania), while 60,000 Bulgarians from Thrace and Macedonia had moved to Bulgaria.\n\nThe immediate reception of refugees to Greece cost 45 million francs, so the League of Nations arranged for a loan of 150 million francs to aid settlement of refugees. In 1930, Venizelos even went on an official visit to Turkey, where he proposed that Mustafa Kemal be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nAlthough the Great Idea ceased to be a driving force behind Greek foreign policy, some remnants continued to influence Greek foreign policy throughout the remainder of the 20th century.\n\nThus, after his coup d'état of 4 August 1936, Ioannis Metaxas proclaimed the advent of the \"Third Hellenic Civilization\", similar to Adolf Hitler's Third Reich. The attack by Italy from Albania and the Greek victories enabled Greece to conquer, during the winter of 1940–1941, parts of southern Albania (Northern Epirus, as it is identified by Greeks) which were administered as a province of Greece for a short time until the German offensive of April 1941.\n\nThe occupation, resistance and the civil war initially put the Great Idea in the background. Nevertheless, another very good diplomatic performance by the Greek side at the Paris Peace Conference, 1946 secured a further enlargement of Greek territory, in the form of the Dodecanese Islands, despite the very strong opposition of Vyacheslav Molotov and the Soviet delegates. The Soviet opposition was also the main reason for the non incorporation of the Northern Epirus, since Albania was, after WW2, communist controlled.\n\nThe British colony of Cyprus became the \"apple of discord\" in Greco-Turkish relations. In 1955, a Greek army colonel of Greek Cypriot origin, George Grivas, began a campaign of civil disobedience whose purpose was primarily to drive the British from the island, then move for \"Enosis\" with Greece. The Greek Prime Minister, Alexandros Papagos, was not unfavourable to this idea. There was increasing polarisation of opinion between the dominant Greek population and the minority Turks.\n\nThe problems in Cyprus affected the continent itself. In September 1955, in response to the demand for \"Énosis\", an anti-Greek riot took place in Istanbul. During the Istanbul Pogrom 4,000 stores, 100 hotels and restaurants and 70 churches were destroyed or damaged. This led to the last great wave of migration from Turkey to Greece.\n\nThe Zürich Agreement of 1959 culminated in independence of the island within the British Commonwealth. The inter-ethnic clashes from 1960 led to the dispatch of a peacekeeping force of the United Nations in 1964.\n\nThe Cyprus issue was revived by the dictatorship of the colonels, who presented their April 21, 1967, \"coup d'état\" as the only way to defend the traditional values of what they called the \"Hellenic-Christian Civilization\".\n\nAgainst the backdrop of the oil crisis in the Aegean, Brigadier General Ioannidis arranged, in July 1974, to overthrow Cypriot President Archbishop Makarios, and proceed to \"Enosis\" with Greece. This led to an immediate reaction from Turkey. Turkey invaded the north part of the island. The two countries moved to a general mobilization and there was a well-founded fear of an imminent war with Turkey.\n\nToday, there is no significant population of Greeks in Turkey, due to the population exchange between Greece and Turkey and the Greek genocide. There are several extant Greek–Turkish border disputes, most notably taking place at Imia/Kardak.\n\nRelations between Greece and Turkey improved after the Greek aid sent after the 1999 İzmit earthquake and the Turkish aid sent after the 1999 Athens earthquake. This period of mutual reconciliation is known as the earthquake diplomacy, and Greco-Turkish relations have been more cordial since then.\n\nThe nationalist Golden Dawn party, which has had a recent surge in electoral support, supports the Megali Idea.\n\n\"Regions and claims vary in significance. Usually only regions with a modern Greek presence were attested in official contexts.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41514192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41514192", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (Jamaica)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (Jamaica)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MoAF) is a government ministry of Jamaica.\n\nIts head office is in Kingston.\n\n"}
{"id": "32877288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32877288", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (Equatorial Guinea)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (Equatorial Guinea)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is the state sector organisation of Equatorial Guinea that deals with matters relating to agriculture, forestry and biosecurity. The responsible minister is the Minister of Agriculture Teodorin Nguema Obiang Mangue.\n\nThe ministry is responsible for biosecurity, managing Equatorial Guinea's state forests, supporting rural communities, ensuring the humane and responsible use of animals, and helping win access to overseas markets for Equatorial Guinea products. It also works to promote sustainability in the Equatorial Guinea's rural sectors, and to manage land, water and irrigation in rural Equatorial Guinea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31358233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31358233", "title": "Moussa Ibrahim", "text": "Moussa Ibrahim\n\nMoussa Ibrahim ( ; romanized also as \"Mussa\" and \"Musa\", born 7 December 1974) is a Libyan political figure who rose to international attention in 2011 as Muammar Gaddafi's Information Minister and official spokesman, serving in this role until the government was toppled in the Libyan Civil War. Ibrahim held frequent press conferences in the course of the war, denouncing rebel forces and the NATO-led military intervention, often in defiant and impassioned tones. His status and whereabouts remained unknown following the Battle of Tripoli in which the Gaddafi government was overthrown, although there were several claims and subsequent refutations of his capture. Eventually, in late 2014, it was discovered he was in Egypt before he was deported and fled to Serbia. On 12 January 2015 Moussa Ibrahim spoke publicly by video link at a political event hosted at the Committee Rooms Houses of Parliament, Westminster, London from an undisclosed location, also the Director of Private Security Company. \n\nIbrahim was born on 7 December 1974 into Gaddafi's Qadhadhfa tribe. He studied politics at the University of Exeter in the early 2000s, where he met his future wife Julia Ramelow, a German-born theology student, with whom he has a young son. He worked on a PhD in media arts at Royal Holloway, University of London, completing his final exam in May 2010, although he has not formally received his doctorate as supervisors are awaiting a small number of required amendments to his thesis. One of Ibrahim's lecturers at the University of Exeter, Dr. Larbi Sadiki, described him as an engaging, friendly but serious student — \"a nice guy but with a short fuse.\" He told Sky News: \"I lived in London for 15 years. I know every street in London. I know how decent the British people are.\"\n\nOn 19 August 2011, his brother was allegedly killed by an Apache helicopter in Zawiya. During the Battle of Tripoli, he called for a ceasefire and blamed NATO and the West for the situation, saying that the conflicting parties should sit down and negotiate; although he also said that thousands of professional soldiers were ready to defend Tripoli against rebel forces staging an uprising within the capital, as well those advancing towards the city from Zawiya.\n\nIt was incorrectly reported by Misrata-based Freedom TV on 29 September 2011 that Ibrahim had been captured near Sirte by NTC fighters. No independent confirmation was forthcoming, and the report was denied by a pro-Gaddafi TV channel. Later that day a spokesman for the Misrata military council, Adel Ibrahim, told AFP \"We cannot confirm he was arrested\", and two days later an NTC commander admitted they had not captured him. On 20 October 2011, Reuters reported that Ibrahim had been captured near Sirte, according to a Libyan transitional forces commander; however, this was again proven to be untrue. On 22 October 2011, he was reportedly captured for a third time, along with Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, near Bani Walid. This claim was also discredited, as Saif was not captured until 19 November near the town of Ubari. On 20 January 2012, it was reported for the fourth time that Ibrahim had been captured in Asbi'a, Libya. However, the following day these claims were denied by officials in Tripoli.\n\nOn 20 October 2012, Ibrahim was reported captured for the fifth time, in the town of Tarhuna, 40 miles south of Tripoli. For the first time, the reports were backed by the government, who said he was \"being transferred to Tripoli to begin interrogation.\" An audio clip was then released on Facebook, purporting to be Ibrahim's voice denying the reports. On 24 October, government spokesman Nasser Al Manaa apologised for the false reports along with claims that Khamis Gaddafi had been killed.\n\nIbrahim's elder brother Mohamed Ibrahim Mansour, a \"senior finance official\" under Gaddafi, was reportedly arrested in Cairo on 19 March 2013, facing charges of corruption. Several new audio clips purportedly of Ibrahim have been published online, but remain unverified.\n\nOn 31 October 2014 Egypt, which had become increasingly close to the internationally recognized government of Libya based in Tobruk, agreed to deport Moussa Ibrahim from Cairo.\n\nOn 12 January 2015 Moussa Ibrahim spoke publicly by video link at an event called \"Libya: NATO's untold story\" hosted by the Tricontinental Anti-Imperialist Platform at the Committee Rooms Houses of Parliament, in Westminster, London.\n\n"}
{"id": "24653440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24653440", "title": "National Emergency Alarm Repeater", "text": "National Emergency Alarm Repeater\n\nThe National Emergency Alarm Repeater (NEAR) was a civilian emergency warning device in the United States. It was a 2–3\" (5–7.5 cm) square box designed to plug into a standard power outlet to receive a special signal sent over the electric power transmission lines. Research and testing for the NEAR program was developed in 1956 during the Cold War to supplement the existing siren warning systems and radio broadcasts in the event of a nuclear attack. The advent of the radio Emergency Broadcast System rendered NEAR obsolete, although a severe disadvantage inherent in the Emergency Broadcast System was that it required a television or radio to be turned on for a household to receive the emergency alarm, whereas NEAR did not. Despite this advantage, upon the introduction of the Emergency Broadcast System, stockpiled NEAR repeaters were destroyed by their respective manufacturers.\n\nA similar program was proposed in the United Kingdom during the 1960s.\n\nA \"Time\" magazine article in the November 14, 1960 issue outlined a new program supplementing the then \"basically unsound\" warning system consisting of localized sirens and the CONELRAD radio-alert system.\n\nThe U.S. Army argued that in the age of intercontinental ballistic missiles a civil-defense warning system should be capable of warning 90% of the population within 30 seconds after a signal is given by the national civil-defense center in Colorado Springs.\n\nThe device is a buzzer installed into ordinary electrical outlets. The devices would be set off in an emergency by altering the regular AC signal being generated and transmitted by the local power companies. This would be done by having a specific alternating current of a specific frequency superimposed upon it; the imposed current would be generated by special generators and would be at 270 Hz at 3 volts RMS for 50,000 cycles (), approximately three minutes.\n\nThe indoor buzzers would be supplemented with outdoor warning sirens.\n\nAn episode of the PBS television program \"History Detectives\" suggested that \nproblems with NEAR might have included limited instructions on what to do when an alert was received and the device's inability to provide information on what exactly was happening. EMP effects of a high-altitude nuclear could have disabled the system. After a decade of federal support for testing and development, the program was terminated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1672828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1672828", "title": "New Fourth Army", "text": "New Fourth Army\n\nThe New Fourth Army () was a unit of the National Revolutionary Army of the Republic of China established in 1937. In contrast to most of the National Revolutionary Army, it was controlled by the Communist Party of China and not by the ruling Kuomintang. The New Fourth Army and the Eighth Route Army were the two main communist forces from 1938. The New Fourth Army was active south of the Yangtze River (Chang Jiang), while the Eighth Route Army was based in Yan'an in the northwest.\n\nMembers of the New Fourth Army wore their badges on the left arm, with \"N4A\" and the soldier's unit and name listed on the badge.\n\nAfter the Xi'an Incident, the Kuomintang led by Chiang Kai-shek and the Communist Party of China led by Mao Zedong formed a United Front against Japan, which was already in control of Manchuria and pushing into North China. The Marco Polo Bridge Incident in July 1937 marked the beginning of the Sino-Japanese War (1937-1945).\n\nIn October, 1937, an announcement was made that Red Army soldiers active in the eight provinces in southern China — those who did not embark on the Long March would be part of the New Fourth Army. The New Fourth Army was established on December 25, 1937 in Hankou, moving to Nanchang on January 6, 1938, when the detachments began marching to the battlefront. At the beginning, the New Fourth Army had four detachments and one task force battalion and numbered roughly ten thousand. Later the army moved to Anhui province. Ye Ting was the army commander, Xiang Ying the deputy army commander.\n\nIt was in theory a united front against Japan but in practice there was friction between Nationalist and Communist Forces, which intensified in the fall of 1940, culminating in the New Fourth Army Incident with a full-fledged battle between the New Fourth Army and KMT National Revolutionary Army forces. Up until that point, most of the battles had been skirmishes. The army was fully reorganised after the incident and remained in active combat until the end of the war. \n\n"}
{"id": "17584042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17584042", "title": "New York Human Rights Law", "text": "New York Human Rights Law\n\nThe New York Human Rights Law (NYHRL) is article 15 of the Executive Law (which is itself chapter 18 of the Consolidated Laws of New York) which prohibits discrimination on the basis of \"age, race, creed, color, national origin, sexual orientation, military status, sex, marital status or disability\" in employment, housing, education, credit, and access to public accommodations The law was originally passed in 1945 as the Law Against Discrimination, and was the first of its kind in the United States. It is enforced by the New York State Division of Human Rights.\n\nThe Sexual Orientation Non-Discrimination Act passed in 2002 added \"sexual orientation\"; the Gender Expression Non-Discrimination Act is a bill proposed to add \"gender identity or expression\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3973664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3973664", "title": "North Korea Peace Museum", "text": "North Korea Peace Museum\n\nThe North Korea Peace Museum is in the building constructed to house the signing of the Korean War Armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953. It is located in the former village of Panmunjeom (P'anmunjŏm) in North Hwanghae Province, North Korea.\n\nIt is located approximately north-west of the Joint Security Area (JSA), in the northern half of the Demilitarized Zone. The building is all that remains of the former village, and since the mid-1950s, references to Panmunjom actually refer to the Joint Security Area itself. It is about north-east of Kijong-dong, often referred to as \"Propaganda Village\".\n\nThe weapons used to kill U.S. Army Captain Arthur Bonifas and Lieutenant Mark Barrett in the axe murder incident of 1976 are housed within the Museum.\n\nThere is a symbol of a dove above the door. At the time of the signing of the armistice, a copy of Pablo Picasso's \"The Dove\" was hanging inside the building. The Americans objected to it as a symbol of Communism (Picasso was a Communist), and it was covered up.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "184438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=184438", "title": "Oil imperialism theories", "text": "Oil imperialism theories\n\nOil imperialism theories assert that direct and indirect control of world petroleum reserves is a root factor in current international politics.\n\nWhile economists and historians agree that access to and control of the access of others to important resources has throughout history been a factor in warfare and in diplomacy, oil imperialism theorists generally tend to assert that control of petroleum reserves has played an overriding role in international politics since World War I. In recent years, oil resources were certainly important considerations behind the Gulf War, the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and the Libyan Crisis. Some theories hold that access to oil defined 20th-century empires and was the key to the ascendance of the United States as the world's sole superpower, and explained how a transitioning country like Russia was able to obtain rapid GDP growth for a time (see Economy of the Soviet Union).\n\nCritics of oil imperialism theories suggest that because the United States has historically been one of the leading oil producers in the world, the United States would be unlikely to predicate its foreign policy on the acquisition of oil with such an undue focus. They point out that, relative to its consumption rate, oil is not an expensive commodity in the market.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1051502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1051502", "title": "Paul Hausser", "text": "Paul Hausser\n\nPaul Hausser (7 October 1880 – 21 December 1972) was a high-ranking commander in the \"Waffen-SS\" of Nazi Germany during World War II who played a key role in the post-war efforts by former members of the \"Waffen-SS\" to achieve historical and legal rehabilitation.\n\nHausser served as an officer in the Prussian Army during World War I and attained the rank of general in the inter-war \"Reichsheer\". After retirement, he joined the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) of Nazi Germany and was instrumental in forming the \"Waffen-SS\". During World War II, he rose to the level of army group commander. He led \"Waffen-SS\" troops in the Third Battle of Kharkov, the Battle of Kursk and the Normandy Campaign. Hausser was the highest-ranking officer in the \"Waffen-SS\" alongside Sepp Dietrich. Unlike Dietrich, Hausser was a professional staff officer before joining the SS.\n\nAfter the war Hausser became a founding member and the first spokesperson of HIAG, a lobby group and a revisionist veterans' organisation, founded by former high-ranking \"Waffen-SS\" personnel in West Germany in 1951. It campaigned for the restoration of legal and economic rights of the \"Waffen-SS\" employing a multi-prong propaganda campaign to achieve its aims.\n\nHausser wrote two books, published by right-wing imprints, arguing the purely military role of the \"Waffen-SS\" and advancing the notion that its troops were \"soldiers like any other\", according to the title of the second book. Under Hausser's leadership, HIAG reshaped the image of the \"Waffen-SS\" as a so-called pan-European force that fought honorably and had no part in war crimes or Nazi atrocities. These ideas have since been discredited by historians.\nHausser was born on 7 October 1880 in Brandenburg an der Havel into a Prussian military family and entered the army in 1892. In 1899, he graduated from a cadet academy and was commissioned as a lieutenant in the 155th (7th West Prussian) Infantry Regiment. Hausser graduated from the Prussian Military Academy in Berlin in 1911. Hausser married Elisabeth Gerard in 1912; the couple had one daughter who was born in December 1913.\n\nDuring World War I he served in the German General Staff and in staff roles on the Eastern Front, primarily serving with the 109th Infantry Division between 1916 and 1918. He was promoted to major in 1918 and was retained in the postwar \"Reichswehr\", reaching the rank of \"Oberst\" (colonel) by 1927.\n\nHausser retired from the \"Reichswehr\" in 1932 with the rank of \"Generalleutnant\", having filled various appointments including chief of staff of \"Wehrkreis II\" (Military District 2) in Stettin, commander of the 10th Infantry Regiment, and deputy commander of the 4th Infantry Division. Hausser joined the right-wing World War I veterans' organization \"Stahlhelm\", becoming the head of its Brandenburg-Berlin chapter in 1933. Soon after, the \"Stahlhelm\" was incorporated into the \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA), and, with the SA's demise, into the SS.\n\nIn November 1934 Hausser was transferred to the \"SS-Verfügungstruppe\" (SS Dispositional Troops; SS-VT) and assigned to the SS officer training school. He became the Inspector of the SS-VT in 1936. In this role, Hausser was in charge of the troop's military and ideological training, but did not have command authority. The decision on deployment of the troops remained in Himmler's hands. This aligned with Hitler's intentions to maintain these troops exclusively at his disposal, \"neither [a part] of the army, nor of the police\", according to Hitler's order of 17 August 1938.\nHausser served during the 1939 invasion of Poland as an observer with the mixed \"Wehrmacht\"/SS Panzer Division \"Kempf\". In October 1939 the SS-VT was formed as a motorized infantry division known as the SS-\"Verfügungs\"-Division with Hausser in command. He led the division, later renamed 2nd SS Division Das Reich, through the French campaign of 1940 and in the early stages of Operation Barbarossa. For his service in the Soviet Union, Hausser was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross in 1941 and the Oak Leaves in 1943 (he received the Swords for his service in Normandy) and was severely wounded, losing an eye.\n\nAfter recovering, he commanded the newly formed SS-Panzer Corps (renamed II SS Panzer Corps in June 1943) and against Hitler's explicit orders withdrew his troops from Kharkov to avoid encirclement. He led the 1st, 2nd and 3rd SS divisions during the Battle of Kursk. After Kursk, his Corps was reformed (substituting the 1st, 2nd and 3rd SS Panzer Divisions with the 9th and 10th SS divisions) and sent to Italy, then to France where he commanded them in the early stages of the Normandy Campaign.\n\nAfter the death of Friedrich Dollmann, commander of the Seventh Army, Hausser was promoted to its command. During the Falaise encirclement in 1944, Hausser was seriously wounded (shot through the jaw). Hausser was promoted to SS-\"Oberst-Gruppenführer\" in August 1944 and subsequently commanded Army Group Oberrhein and later Army Group G until 3 April 1945. On the day he was relieved, Joseph Goebbels wrote, \"He has definitely not stood the test.\" He ended the war on \"Generalfeldmarschall\" Albert Kesselring's staff. At the Nuremberg Trials he claimed that the \"Waffen-SS\" only had a military role and denied that it was involved in war crimes and atrocities.\n\nFollowing the war, Hausser participated in the work of the U.S. Army Historical Division, where under the guidance of Franz Halder, German generals wrote World War II operational studies for the U.S. Army, first as POWs and then as employees. In the late 1940s, Hausser authored an operational study on the Seventh Army's response to the Allied Normandy breakout. The study, together with contributions from Rudolf Christoph von Gersdorff, Heinrich Freiherr von Lüttwitz, Wilhelm Fahrmbacher and Heinrich Eberbach, was published in 2004 as \"Fighting the Breakout: The German Army in Normandy from COBRA to the Falaise Gap\".\n\nFrom 1950, Hausser was active in HIAG, a revisionist organization and a lobby group of former \"Waffen-SS\" members. HIAG began in the late 1950 as a loose association of local groups; by October 1951, however, it claimed to embrace 376 local branches across West Germany. In December 1951, Hausser became its first spokesperson.\n\nWith the publication of its first periodical in late 1951, HIAG was beginning to draw attention to itself and generate public controversy, including speculation that it was a neo-Nazi organization. In response, Hausser wrote an open letter to the \"Bundestag\" denying these accusations and describing the HIAG as an advocacy organisation for former \"Waffen-SS\" troops. Hausser asserted that its members rejected all forms of radicalism and were \"upstanding citizens\".\n\nAs part of its lobbying efforts, HIAG attempted to \"manipulate historical record or simply to ignore it\", according to the historian David C. Large, who studied HIAG in the 1980s. HIAG's rewriting of history included significant multi-prong propaganda efforts, including tendentious periodicals, books and public speeches, along with the publishing house of Munin Verlag, to serve as a platform for its publicity aims. The express aim of Munin Verlag was to publish the \"war narratives\" of former \"Waffen-SS\" members, in cooperation with HIAG.\n\nPaul Hausser's 1953 book \"Waffen-SS im Einsatz\" (\"Waffen-SS in Action\") was the first major work by one of the HIAG leaders. It was published by , owned by a right-wing politician and publisher . A foreword from the former \"Wehrmacht\" General Heinz Guderian provided an endorsement for the \"Waffen-SS\" troops and referred to them as \"the first realization of the European idea\".\n\nThe book described the growth of \"Waffen-SS\" into a multinational force where foreign volunteers fought heroically as a \"militant example of the great European idea\". Historians have refuted this characterisation, arguing that it was largely Nazi propaganda employed to bolster the ranks of the \"Waffen-SS\" with foreign volunteers. The message was later repurposed by HIAG as it sought historical and legal rehabilitation of the force. \"Waffen-SS in Action\" was included in the index of objectionable war books maintained by West Germany's Federal Department for Media Harmful to Young Persons. The index was created in the early 1960s to limit the sale of such works to minors due to their chauvinism and glorification of violence.\n\nHausser later wrote another book, published in 1966 by HIAG's imprint , under the title \"Soldaten wie andere auch\" (\"Soldiers Like Any Other\"). According to the military historian S.P. MacKenzie, the work epitomised how HIAG leaders wanted the \"Waffen-SS\" to be remembered, while the historian Charles Sydnor described it as \"equally tendentious\".\n\nHausser's books, along with those by other key HIAG members and former \"Waffen-SS\" Generals Felix Steiner and Kurt Meyer, have been characterised by the historian Charles Sydnor as the \"most important works of [Waffen-SS] apologist literature.\" These works demanded rehabilitation of the military branch of the Nazi Party and presented \"Waffen-SS\" members as both victims and misunderstood heroes.\n\nBy the mid-1950s, under Hausser's guidance, HIAG attempted to establish a position that separated the \"Waffen-SS\" from other SS formations and shifted responsibility for crimes that could not be denied to the \"Allgemeine-SS\" (security and police), the \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\" (concentration camp organisation, \"Death's Head troops\") and the \"Einsatzgruppen\" (mobile killing units). The \"Waffen-SS\", according to this position, could thus be successfully integrated into the parallel myth of the clean \"Wehrmacht\".\n\nHausser continued to deny that there was any connection between the \"Waffen-SS\" and Nazi atrocities. In 1957, he wrote an open letter in \"Der Freiwillige\", HIAG's official publication, to West Germany's minister of defence, stating that Death's Head troops \"merely served as external guards in the concentration camps without the possibility of interfering with the internal procedure\". He did not mention that the guards accompanied prisoners on external labor details and that commanders of concentration camps generally came from the \"Waffen-SS\". This apologist position also ignored the fact that the organizational structure of the SS tied the \"Waffen-SS\" to the Nazi annihilation machine through transfer of personnel between various SS units and the shifting responsibilities of the units themselves, as they may perform frontline duties at one time and then be reassigned to \"pacification actions\", the Nazi term for punitive operations in the rear.\n\nThe German historian Karsten Wilke, who wrote a book on HIAG, \"Die \"Hilfsgemeinschaft auf Gegenseitigkeit\" (HIAG) 1950–1990: Veteranen der Waffen-SS in der Bundesrepublik\" (\"HIAG 1950–1990: Waffen-SS veterans in the Federal Republic\"), notes that, by the 1970s, HIAG attained a monopoly on the historical representation of the \"Waffen-SS\". Its recipe was simple and contained just four ingredients:\n\nHistorians dismiss, and even ridicule, this characterisation. The French author Jean-Paul Picaper labels it as a \"self-panegyric\", while David Clay Large uses the words \"extravagant fantasies about [Waffen-SS's] past and future\". The historian James M. Diehl describes HIAG's claims of the \"Waffen-SS\" being the \"fourth branch of the Wehrmacht\" as \"false\", and HIAG's insistence that the force was a precursor to NATO as \"even more outrageous\".\n\nHausser's last project within HIAG was the five-hundred page SS picture tome under the nostalgic title \"Wenn alle Brüder schweigen\" (\"When All Our Brothers Are Silent\"); the project was spearheaded by Hausser, with Jochen Peiper, another prominent \"Waffen-SS\" figure, as a contributor. The publication was released in 1973.\n\nHausser died at the age of 92, on 21 December 1972 at Ludwigsburg.\n\n\n\nHausser authored two books:\n\nHausser's operational study on the 7th Army is included in the following volume:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "977171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977171", "title": "Polder model", "text": "Polder model\n\nThe polder model () is consensus decision-making, based on the acclaimed Dutch version of consensus-based economic and social policy making in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nThe polder model has been described as \"a pragmatic recognition of pluriformity\" and \"cooperation despite differences\". It is thought that the Dutch politician Ina Brouwer was the first to use the term \"poldermodel\", in her 1990 article \"Het socialisme als poldermodel?\" (Socialism as polder model?), although it is uncertain whether she coined the term or simply seems to have been the first to write it down.\n\nThe Dutch polder model is characterised by the tri-partite cooperation between employers' organisations such as VNO-NCW, labour unions such as the Federation Dutch Labour Movement, and the government. These talks are embodied in the Social-Economic Council (, SER). The SER serves as the central forum to discuss labour issues and has a long tradition of consensus, often defusing labour conflicts and avoiding strikes. Similar models are in use in Finland, namely Comprehensive Income Policy Agreement and universal validity of collective labour agreements.\n\nThe current Dutch polder model is said to have begun with the Wassenaar Accords of 1982, when unions, employers, and government decided on a comprehensive plan to revitalise the economy involving shorter working times and less pay on the one hand, and more employment on the other. This polder model, combined with a neoliberal economic policy of privatisation and budget cuts has been held to be responsible for the Dutch economic miracle of the late 1990s.\n\nAn important role in this process was played by the Dutch Central Planning Bureau (CPB), founded by Jan Tinbergen. The CPB's policy advice since 1976, in particular with the Den Hartog and Tjan model, in favour of wage restraint, was an important argument, supportive for government and employers, that the unions could not easily counter.\n\nMany authors and researchers, however, have argued that the Wassenaar Agreement has been largely overrated. Most of these writers have argued that considerable continuity can be seen from the 1950s on. The young historian Stijn Kuipers, however, draws the line even further. In an article which is much indebted to the work of Coen Helderman, Kuipers argues that the modern socioeconomic polder model already manifested itself in 1920 with the Dutch High Council of Labour. It would follow that the polder model is much older and therefore could have had a larger influence on Dutch society and economy than has generally been thought up to now.\n\nThe term polder model and especially the verb \"polderen\" (to polder) has been used pejoratively by some politicians to describe the slow decision-making process where all parties have to be heard. The model flourished under the \"Purple\" governments of Dutch prime minister Wim Kok, a coalition including the traditional rivals the Labour Party (a social-democratic party, whose colour is red) and the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (right-wing liberals, whose colour is blue). In the declining economic climate of the early 21st century the model came under fierce attack particularly from right-wing politicians and Pim Fortuyn in his book entitled \"De puinhopen van acht jaar Paars\" (\"The wreckage of eight years Purple\").\n\nThere is no consensus about the exact historical background of the polder model. In general there are three views on this subject.\n\nOne explanation points to the rebuilding of the Netherlands after World War II. Corporatism was an important feature of Christian Democratic, and particularly Catholic, political thought. During the postwar period, the Catholic, Protestant, Christian, social-democratic, and liberal parties decided to work together to reconstruct the Netherlands, as did unions and employers' organizations. Important institutions of the polder model, like the SER, were founded in this period. No single political party has ever had anything approaching an overall majority in parliament, so coalition government is inevitable. This makes parties extremely cautious, since today's enemy may be tomorrow's ally, all the more so in present times when the \"death of ideology\" has made it possible for almost all the parties to work together.\n\nAnother explanation points to the dependency of the Netherlands on the international economy. The Dutch cannot afford protectionism against the unpredictable tides of the international economy, because the Netherlands is not an autarkic economy. Therefore, to cushion against the international economy, they set up a tri-partite council which oversaw an extensive welfare state.\n\nA third explanation refers to a unique aspect of the Netherlands, that it consists in large part of polders, land reclaimed from the sea, which requires constant pumping and maintenance of the dykes. So ever since the Middle Ages, when the process of land reclamation began, different societies living in the same polder have been forced to cooperate because without unanimous agreement on shared responsibility for maintenance of the dykes and pumping stations, the polders would have flooded and everyone would have suffered. Crucially, even when different cities in the same polder were at war, they still had to cooperate in this respect. This is thought to have taught the Dutch to set aside differences for a greater purpose.\n\n"}
{"id": "14536794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14536794", "title": "Police of Denmark", "text": "Police of Denmark\n\nThe police of Denmark () is the interior part of the Danish legitimate force providers (the Danish military being the exterior). The police are empowered to enforce the law and to effect public and social order, as well as being responsible for border control.\n\nThe common police of Denmark consists of 12 districts each managed by a director and two minor districts in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, run by a local chief of police.\nThe district of Copenhagen is somewhat differently organized due to its size and tasks.\n\nBesides the regular districts other organizations exist that work outside the common police:\n\nThe common uniform is a light blue shirt with the police insignia on the sleeve. Usually a tie is also worn. Rank-insignia is worn on the shoulders. The pants are dark blue with reflective patches. Black shoes are also included in the standard uniform. Special tactical suits are made of flame-resistant materials and are worn in situations requiring such equipment. The tactical suit also includes a protected helmet. \n\nFor the daily duties, the patrol-vehicles are white and dog-patrols are mostly dark blue. They have a blue strobe-light or flashing light and the word \"POLITI\" painted on the side in a reflective and clear paint. The most commonly used patrol vehicles are Ford Mondeo, Volkswagen Passat and Opel Vectra, with 2.0 to 2.2 litre engines. In 2009, the 3.6 litre Škoda Superb was added to the fleet. Unmarked cars are usually fitted with engines with a size of around 1.6 to 2.2 litre. In addition a large number of small unmarked cars are used like Peugeot 307, Opel Astra, Ford Focus and Toyota Yaris - with engine size of around 1.2 to 1.6 litre. The Peugeot 607 is used as a security attachment for cabinet members and the royal court. Toyota Landcruiser and VW Touareg are used for special tasks. Small detachments typically use VW Transporters, while VW LTs and Ford Transit mini-buses are used in larger operations, which require a lot of manpower (demonstrations, football matches and larger civil unrests). In extreme events, a variation of the MB Vario is used. It is generally known as the \"Dutchman's vehicle\" (in Danish \"Hollændervogn\"). This name derives from the fact that these vehicles are fitted in the Netherlands as light APC's with reinforced windows, wheels and metal parts and fire-resistant coating. They are used both as light APCs in event of demonstrations or public disturbances, and as general transportation of large numbers of arrestees. Other vehicles in use are the Mercedes-Benz Vito (used by both Central Turnout Leaders, a kind of on-street watch commanders) and Nissan Patrols used by the mounted police squads with a horse carrier attached.\n\nThe traffic police also use unmarked vans for automatic traffic control. These are primarily VW Transporters, Mercedes Benz Vitos, Toyota Hiaces, but others are used as well.\n\nSome rural police officers use civilian vehicles with a dismountable magnet roof flash.\n\nFor traffic regulation and VIP and ambulance escorts motorcycles are also used, primarily Yamaha FJR1300A, Honda ST1300a, BMW K1200RS and BMW K1200GT (over time replacing older BMW K1100LT and BMW R1100RT).\n\nThe standard service handgun is the H&K USP Compact 9mm pistol. For special tasks the H&K MP5 sub-machine gun is used. Officers are also equipped with batons and pepper spray cans.\n\nThe operation of Danish police is regulated in the \"Act on Police Enforcement\" (da: \"Lov om politiets virksomhed\"), commonly known as \"The Police Act\" (da: \"politiloven\") of 20 August 2015.\n\nIts first section states that:\n\n\"The police must work to ensure security, safety, peace and order in society. The police must promote this purpose through preventive, helping and enforcing work.\"\n\nThe second section states that other areas of police jurisdiction include:\n\n\nLastly, the third section states:\n\"The police may in other situations than those mentioned in statutory law only interfere with citizens under this Act.\"\n\nIn Denmark, the local prosecution service is part of the police. Since 2014, only Chief Prosecutors wear uniforms; other prosecutors, such as senior prosecutors, prosecutors, associate prosecutors, and advocates, do not.\n\nThe military police (MP) in Denmark are police units within the armed forces branches. Each branch has its own MP corps, although they often work together and wear similar insignias.\n\nMP personnel typically wear either specific display dress uniforms with white MP shoulder markings or the branch-common daily battle dress uniforms with a red beret.\n\nMP personnel generally do not have any legal authority towards civilians in non-military places, but only towards military personnel as towards everyone on military installations (also publicly accessible places such as the Holmen naval base in Copenhagen), in the buildings housing the Ministry of Defence, royal palaces (like Amalienborg Palace) and parts of Christiansborg Palace. On some occasions, MP personnel can provide support to the civilian police for certain tasks, but will only have slightly more legal authority than civilians, similar to the police home guard.\n\nThe Danish police can call upon assistance from a section of the Danish home guard: Politihjemmeværnet the \"police home guard\". The police home guard consists of 47 companies, each led by professional police officers.\n\nThe volunteers are mainly used for traffic control at festivals, searches for victims and guarding community installations and are never used in tasks involving direct confrontation with civilians (riot control or planned arrests). These companies are part of the Army Home Guard.\n\nThey wear branch-common daily battle dress uniforms, green berets and bright yellow vests with the text \"POLITI HJEMMEVÆRNET\" (POLICE HOME GUARD). \n\nMembers of the police home guard have slightly more legal authority than regular citizens when the service they provide calls for it, but they are always under the supervision of the civilian police.\n\n"}
{"id": "2827915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2827915", "title": "Potere Operaio", "text": "Potere Operaio\n\nPotere Operaio (\"Workers' Power\") was a radical left-wing Italian political group, active between 1968 and 1973. (It shouldn't be confused with \"Potere Operaio Pisano\" which was one of the components of a competing revolutionary group, Lotta Continua.) Among the group's leaders were Antonio ('Toni') Negri, Nanni Balestrini, Franco Piperno, Oreste Scalzone and Valerio Morucci, who led its clandestine armed wing. It was part of the \"workerist\" movement (\"operaismo\"), leading to the later development of the Autonomist movement.\n\n\"Potere Operaio\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s main sphere of operations was in factories, especially big factories in the industrial North, and publishing newspapers and leaflets. It sought to base its Marxist theory on the everyday life of supposedly revolutionary factory workers.\n\nPotere Operaio officially ceased to exist on 3 June 1973. Most of its core members went on to be involved in Autonomia Operaia, signalling the shift from operaismo to autonomism. Some of the leaders later drifted towards more radical groups such as the Red Brigades, including Morucci and Adriana Faranda, who took part in the Moro murder. Negri was arrested in the late 1970s, accused of being the leader of the Red Brigades, before being cleared of charges. Oreste Scalzone also was arrested, in connection with violent acts.\n\n"}
{"id": "32918086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32918086", "title": "Provisional Government of Mexico (1823–24)", "text": "Provisional Government of Mexico (1823–24)\n\nThe Provisional Government of Mexico, was an organization denominated Supreme Executive Power () which served as Executive to govern México between 1823 and 1824, after the fall of the Mexican Empire of Agustín I. The organization was responsible for convening the creation of a Federal Republic, the United Mexican States and was in effect from April 1, 1823 to October 10, 1824.\n\nOn September 27, 1821 after three centuries of Spanish rule, Mexico reached its independence. The Treaty of Córdoba recognized part of the Viceroyalty of New Spain as an Independent Empire, which was recognized as \"Monarchist, constitutional and moderate\". The new country adopted the name of Mexican Empire.\n\nA minority of the Constituent Congress in search of stability elected as monarch Agustín de Iturbide and thus he was proclaimed Emperor of Mexico on May 18, 1822. However, the \n\"Constitutional Empire\" soon demonstrated the incompatibility of its two main parts, the Emperor and the Constituent Congress. The deputies were imprisoned simply for expressing their disagreements with Iturbide and finally, Iturbide decided to permanently eliminate the Congress, establishing instead a National Junta Board.\n\nThe lack of Congress, the arbitrary nature of the Emperor and the absence of solutions to the serious problems that the country was facing increased conspiracies to change the imperial system. Antonio López de Santa Anna proclaimed the Plan of Casa Mata which was later joined by Vicente Guerrero and Nicolás Bravo. Iturbide then was forced to reestablish the Congress and in a vain attempt to save the order and keep the situation favorable to his supporters, he abdicated to the crown of the Empire on March 19, 1823.\nHowever, the Congress nullified the designation of Iturbide and therefore the recognition of the abdication and made seem the coronation of Iturbide as a logic error in the consummation of Independence.\n\nOn March 31, 1823, Constituent Congress appointed a triumvirate consisting by Nicolás Bravo, Guadalupe Victoria and Pedro Celestino Negrete to lead the nation, this organization was named Supreme Executive Power. To replace Bravo and Victoria, who were not in the capital, were chosen and Miguel Domínguez and José Mariano Michelena.\n\nThe Supreme Executive Power was commissioned to summon the former provinces now Free States, to create the Federal Republic and also to call elections for a new constituent congress. Also, had to overcome a series of political difficulties as the case of the Central American provinces that chose not to join Mexican Federation, the provinces of Oaxaca, Yucatán, Jalisco and Zacatecas that declared itself free and sovereign states, also faced a conspiracy of supporters of Iturbide and anti-Spanish rebellion attempt.\n\nOn November 5, 1823 was installed the new constituent congress. On January 31, 1824 was issued the decree which created the Constitutive Act of the Mexican Federation.\n\nThe draft constitution was submitted for discussion on April 1, 1824, and was approved on October 3 of that year, and finally, was enacted the Federal Constitution of the United Mexican States of 1824 on October 4, 1824 by which was officially founded the United Mexican States.\n\nOn October 10, 1824, Guadalupe Victoria took office as the first President of Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "16743785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16743785", "title": "Queen of Norway's Crown", "text": "Queen of Norway's Crown\n\nThe crown of the Queen of Norway was made in 1830 for Désirée Clary's coronation. It did not take place, and was first used in 1860, for the coronation of Louise of the Netherlands.\n\nIt was made in Stockholm and, though it is unknown by whom, probably by Marc Giron, the royal jeweller, some have speculated it may have been by Erik Lundberg, or, perhaps is a combination of both's work, and the design is probably based on the crown of Louisa Ulrika of Prussia.\n\nIt made of silver-gilt and gold, and is decorated with a number of multicoloured gems and pearls, including violet (Amethysts), yellow (Citrine and Topaz) and green (chrysoprase). It weighs approx 530g.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2313065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2313065", "title": "Ray Anderson (entrepreneur)", "text": "Ray Anderson (entrepreneur)\n\nRay C. Anderson (July 28, 1934 – August 8, 2011) was founder and chairman of Interface Inc., one of the world's largest manufacturers of modular carpet for commercial and residential applications and a leading producer of commercial broadloom and commercial fabrics. He was \"known in environmental circles for his advanced and progressive stance on industrial ecology and sustainability.\"\n\nAnderson died on August 8, 2011, twenty months after being diagnosed with cancer.\nOn July 28, 2012, Anderson’s family re-launched the Ray C. Anderson Foundation. with a new purpose.\n\nOriginally created to fund Ray Anderson’s personal philanthropic giving, family members announced the rebirth and refocus of the Foundation on Anderson’s birthday, nearly one year after his 2011 death. The purpose of the Ray C. Anderson Foundation is to perpetuate shared values and continue the legacy that Anderson left behind. The Ray C. Anderson Foundation is a not-for-profit 501(c)3 organization whose mission is to promote and advance the concepts of sustainable production and consumption.\n\nAnderson was an honors graduate of the Georgia Institute of Technology in the school of industrial and systems engineering in 1956. He learned the carpet trade through more than 14 years at Deering, Milliken & Company and Callaway Mills.\n\nAnderson founded Interface in 1973 to produce the first free-lay carpet tiles in America. Interface is one of the world’s largest producers of modular commercial floorcoverings, with sales in 110 countries and manufacturing facilities on four continents.\n\nAnderson first turned his focus toward the environment in 1994 when he read \"The Ecology of Commerce\" by Paul Hawken, and also \"Ishmael\" by Daniel Quinn, seeking inspiration for a speech to an internal task force on the company’s environmental vision. Hawken argues that the industrial system is destroying the planet and only industry leaders are powerful enough to stop it.\n\nIn 2009, Anderson estimated that Interface was more than halfway towards the vision of “Mission Zero,” the company’s promise to eliminate any negative impact it may have on the environment by the year 2020 through the redesign of processes and products, the pioneering of new technologies, and efforts to reduce or eliminate waste and harmful emissions while increasing the use of renewable materials and sources of energy.\n\nAnderson chronicled the Mission Zero journey in two books, \"Mid-Course Correction: Toward a Sustainable Enterprise: The Interface Model\" (1998) and \"Confessions of a Radical Industrialist: Profits, People, Purpose: Doing Business by Respecting the Earth\" (2009). The latter was released in paperback as \"Business Lessons from a Radical Industrialist\" in 2011.\n\nAnderson was featured several documentaries and films, such as \"The Corporation\", (2004 Canadian documentary); \"The 11th Hour\" (2007 Leonardo DiCaprio film); \"I Am\" (2011 Tom Shadyac documentary); \"Big Ideas for a Small Planet\" (Sundance Channel series); and others.\n\nThe Interface story is the focus of the documentary film “So Right, So Smart” (2009).\n\nRay served a stint as co-chair of the President’s Council on Sustainable Development during President Clinton’s administration, which led to him co-chairing the Presidential Climate Action Plan in 2008, a team that presented the Obama Administration with a 100-day action plan on climate. Together, he and Interface funded the creation of the Anderson-Interface Chair in Natural Systems at Georgia Tech, where Associate Professor Valerie Thomas conducts research in sustainability.\n\nRay Anderson received a host of accolades throughout his life, including:\n\n\nUnder Anderson’s leadership, Interface was named to CRO magazine’s (formerly Business Ethics magazine) 100 Best Corporate Citizens List for three years. In 2006, Sustainablebusiness.com named Interface to their SB20 list of Companies Changing the World, and in 2006 GlobeScan listed Interface #1 in the world for corporate sustainability.\n\nAnderson was former Board Chair for The Georgia Conservancy and served on the boards of the Ida Cason Callaway Foundation, Rocky Mountain Institute, the David Suzuki Foundation, Emory University Board of Ethics Advisory Council, the ASID Foundation, Worldwatch Institute, and the Arizona State University Global Institute of Sustainability Advisory Board. He was on the Advisory Boards of the Harvard Medical School Center for Health and the Global Environment and the Upper Chattahoochee Riverkeeper.\n\nHe was awarded 12 honorary doctorates from Northland College (public service), LaGrange College (business), N.C. State University (humane letters), University of Southern Maine (humane letters), The University of the South (civil law), and Colby College (law), Kendall College of Art and Design (art), Emory University (science), Central College in Pella, Iowa, (humane letters), Chapman University (humane letters), Clarkson University (science), and the Georgia Institute of Technology (philosophy).\n\nAnderson’s papers were donated to the Georgia Historical Society by the Ray C. Anderson Foundation and Interface, Inc. in late 2015. The collection, which includes biographical materials, business records, correspondence, organizational records, photographs, presentations, speeches, writings, travel files, and books, is available at the Georgia Historical Society’s Research Center in Savannah. The online finding aid can be found here.\n\n"}
{"id": "57322807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57322807", "title": "Re Bristol South-East Parliamentary Election", "text": "Re Bristol South-East Parliamentary Election\n\nRe Bristol South-East Parliamentary Election ([1961] 3 All ER 354) is a 1961 United Kingdom election court case brought about by an election petition by Malcolm St Clair against Tony Benn, the winner of the 1961 Bristol South-East by-election where Benn had won the most votes but was disqualified from taking his seat in the House of Commons as he had inherited a hereditary peerage as 2nd Viscount Stansgate. Benn argued that as he had not applied for a writ of summons, he was not a member of the House of Lords and that the voters had the right to choose who they wanted to represent them.\n\nThe court made a ruling of undue election because the voters were aware that Benn was legally disqualified from sitting in the House of Commons, their votes had to be counted as being \"thrown away\" and Malcolm St Clair as the runner-up would take the seat instead.\n\nAnthony Wedgwood Benn had been elected as the MP for Bristol South East since 1950 as a Labour Party candidate. During that time he was heir to the Viscount Stansgate title held by his father William Wedgwood Benn, 1st Viscount Stansgate, which Benn tried several times to renounce his right to. When his father died in 1961, Benn called the Speaker of the House of Commons to inform him of this. The Speaker told Benn that because he was now legally a peer, he was disqualified from sitting and speaking in the House of Commons. A by-election was called and Benn decided to fight it anyway. The Conservative Party candidate, Malcolm St Clair ran several adverts in local papers telling voters that there was no point in voting for Benn as he was disqualified from sitting in the House of Commons as he was a hereditary peer. Despite this, Benn won the election and went to the door of the House of Commons to take his oath of allegiance. However the doorkeeper of the House had been told by the Speaker to not allow Benn access, specifically authorising the use of force to prevent him entering, because he was not legally allowed in the Commons as a hereditary peer. \n\nSt Clair issued an election petition against the results stating that Benn could not take his seat as he was disqualified. The petition was accepted by the Queen's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice of England and Wales and the case would be heard by an election court. During the two months preceding the case, Benn along with his sons Stephen and Hilary, and his legal advisor Michael Zander were granted permission by the Speaker to access the House of Commons Library to help with their case.\n\nAgainst legal advice of the Labour Party's Queen's Counsels, Benn represented himself \"in pro per\" during the proceedings. During his opening address, Benn took 22 hours to make it and took 537 questions while doing so. Sir Andrew Clark QC, acting as St Clair's barrister argued in his response that a peer upon succession, regardless of whether they had asked for one or not, was entitled to a writ of summons to the House of Lords which the Crown could not refuse to grant. He argued that merely having that right was grounds for disqualification as being a member of the House of Lords was incompatible with being an MP in the House of Commons.\n\nBenn argued that to expel an elected member of the House of Commons on the grounds that he had the right for a writ of summons, was to punish him for doing something he hadn't done. He cited there was no precedence to punish a hereditary peer for refusing a writ of summons and referenced the Garter King of Arms's Register of Lords Spiritual and Temporal, where there were forty instances in 500 years of peers not claiming their right to a writ. Since 1955, if a peer did not reply to the Lord Chancellor in relation to their right, they were deemed to be on a leave of absence and attendance was not expected.\n\nJustices Gorman and McNair delivered their verdict, which took two hours to read out. During it they praised Benn for “the magnificent way he had presented his case”. However, they found the election of Benn to be undue, as he had succeeded his father as Viscount Stansgate and thus was disqualified from being elected as a hereditary peer. They stated that a hereditary peerage was \"an incorporeal hereditament affixed to your blood and annexed for posterity\". They made their judgement in favour of St Clair as despite the voters knowing that Benn was disqualified during the election campaign, their votes were to be treated as being \"thrown away\" as they had been given notice by St Clair of Benn's ineligibility. Benn's attempts to renounce his title were stated as being too technical for voters to have easily understood. As a result, St Clair was elected in place of Benn.\n\nDespite losing the court case, Benn continued to campaign to be able to renounce his peerage. The Peerage Act 1963 was passed which allowed for hereditary peers to disclaim their peerage and surrender their right to sit in the House of Lords. This act was created partially as a result of Benn's campaign but also because of the Conservative Party wishing for either Alec Douglas-Home, Earl of Home or Quintin Hogg, Viscount Hailsham to become Prime Minister and it was considered constitutionally inappropriate for the Prime Minister to sit in the House of Lords. Benn took the opportunity to disclaim his title 22 minutes after the bill had come into law. St Clair, acting pursuant to a promise he made to respect the wishes of the people of his constituency, agreed to take the position of Crown Steward and Bailiff of the Manor of Northstead, an office of profit under the Crown, in order to disqualify himself from his seat. This forced a by-election which Benn won, allowing him to reclaim his seat in the House of Commons.\n"}
{"id": "4915709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4915709", "title": "Richard Desmond", "text": "Richard Desmond\n\nRichard Clive Desmond (born 8 December 1951) is a British publisher, businessman and philanthropist. He is the former owner of Express Newspapers and founder of Northern & Shell, which publishes various celebrity magazines, such as \"OK!\" and \"New!\", and British national newspapers \"Daily Star\" and \"Daily Express\". Express Newspapers were sold to Reach Plc (formerly Trinity Mirror) for a consideration of £200m of which £74m was invested in the Express newspapers pension scheme until 2027. Northern & Shell owned Channel 5 before selling it to US broadcaster Viacom for £463m in May 2014. The company sold its adult television network, Portland, in April 2016 for less than £1m.\n\nIn 2010, Desmond was ranked the equal-57th richest man in Britain according to \"The Sunday Times Rich List\", with a net worth of £950 million. He was once again listed on the 2011 \"Sunday Times Rich List\", with his fortune still at £950 million. In 2014, he was ranked 78th and worth £1.2 billion. In 2016 Forbes estimated his fortune at close to $1.49 billion, while the 2016 \"Sunday Times Rich List\" reported his net worth at £2.25 billion. When the 2017 \"Sunday Times Rich List\" was announced, it recorded a rise in his net worth of £250m, to £2.5 billion, making him the 46th richest person in Britain.\n\nIn 2015, Desmond released his autobiography \"The Real Deal\".\n\nDesmond was born in Hampstead, London, into a Jewish family, the youngest of three children, and grew up in Edgware, in north west London. His father was descended from Latvian Jews, and his mother was of Ukrainian-Jewish descent. His father, Cyril, was at one time managing director of cinema advertising company Pearl & Dean. An ear infection caused the sudden loss of Cyril's hearing and, according to Richard, he used to take him along, when he was no more than three years old, to act as \"his ears\" in business meetings, where he ostensibly acquired his \"first taste of business dealings\". After Cyril lost a significant amount of family money to gambling, his parents divorced and 11-year-old Desmond moved with his mother, Millie, into a flat above a garage; he has described his impoverished early adolescence as a time when he was \"very fat and very lonely\".\n\nDesmond was educated at Edgware Junior School and Christ's College, Finchley.\n\nDesmond left school at 15 and started working in the classified advertisements section of the Thomson Group, while playing the drums at gigs after a day's work. After moving to another company, he became sales director of Beat Instrumental Magazine at 18. Desmond owned two record shops by the time he was 21. In the mid-1970s, Desmond combined his interest in music and advertising to found, with Ray Hammond, \"International Musician and Recording World\", a monthly magazine for musicians, eventually driving out of business long-established publications such as \"Beat Instrumental\".\n\nHe was an early pioneer of the international licensing of magazines: \"International Musician\" soon had editions in the US, Australia, Japan, Germany as well as the UK. This was followed by the publication of \"Home Organist\", whose editor contributed the old-school motto \"Forti Nihil Difficile\" (\"Nothing is difficult for the strong\" – it was Disraeli's motto), still used by the Northern & Shell publishing group. Desmond eventually bought out Hammond.\n\nIn 1982, Northern & Shell began to publish the UK edition of \"Penthouse\", although the licensing deal ended in the 1990s. The company soon moved on to publishing a range of adult titles, including \"Asian Babes\", alongside about 40 other specialist publications, on subjects such as green issues, bicycles, fitness, stamps, cars and cooking. It was the first company to move to the revamped Docklands and the Princess Royal opened the offices, which were cleaned temporarily of all evidence of \"Penthouse\". When the company moved to the Northern & Shell Tower, the Duke of Edinburgh presided over the ceremonies.\n\nNorthern & Shell began publication of the celebrity \"OK!\" magazine as a monthly in 1993, later becoming a weekly in March 1996. It is the largest weekly magazine in the world, with 23 separate editions from the US to Australia to Azerbaijan and with a readership in excess of 31 million. It was originally an imitation of \"Hello!\" magazine but now outsells its rival.\n\nClaims of dealings with the New York mafia in the early 1990s emerged in a May 2001 article by John Sweeney of \"The Observer\". Desmond had made a deal in 1991 with Norman Chanes for running advertisements in his adult titles for telephone sex lines run by Chanes mafia associate, Richard Martino of the Gambino crime family. The \"Village Voice\" newspaper asserted in February 2005 that the three men had a meeting in September 1992 at the Four Seasons hotel near Hyde Park in London at which Martino accused Desmond of charging high rates for advertisements in magazines which sold no copies. BBC News reported in 2004 that Desmond did not know the other two men were connected to organised crime, while a spokesman for Northern and Shell said in 2005 that Desmond had never met Martino or had dealings with him.\n\nThis deal reportedly left the Americans out of pocket, and an October 1992 incident in New York followed in which Desmond's then managing director, Philip Bailey, was violently and sexually assaulted as an explicit threat to Desmond himself. \"If your boss sets foot here, he's a dead man\", one of the attackers told Bailey according to the article in the \"Village Voice\". Desmond hired James Brown, a convicted criminal, as his bodyguard. Desmond has asserted that this account is false. Desmond continues to regularly visit New York having started OK! USA and grown Northern & Shell in North America since 2004.\n\nIn February 2005, \"The Guardian\" reported that the claim Desmond had received death threats from the New York Gambino mafia family was contained in affidavits from FBI agents released during Martino's trial relating to the fraudulent use of the telephone lines. Martino pleaded guilty to the charge of trying to extort money from Desmond and Northern and Shell. Desmond has denied the whole episode; he asserted there was no evidence he knew about the fraud perpetrated by Martino.\n\nIn November 2000, Northern & Shell acquired Express Newspapers from United News & Media for £125 million, enlarging the group to include the \"Daily\" and \"Sunday Express\" titles, the \"Daily Star\" and \"Daily Star Sunday\" (which Desmond started), and the \"Irish Daily Star\" (owned jointly with the Irish Independent News & Media group). The \"Daily\" and \"Sunday Express\" each sell around 700,000 copies per issue. The \"Daily Star\" was the only national paper to increase sales year on year with an 18% increase from September 2008 to September 2009 and circulation figures of around 850,000, largely due to aggressive pricing policies which significantly undercut competitors such as \"The Sun\".\n\nAfter buying Express Newspapers, Desmond became embroiled in a feud with Viscount Rothermere, publisher of the \"Daily Mail\", the rival to the \"Daily Express\", largely derived from stories relating to Rothermere's private life.\n\nIn February 2004, in a move that some newspapers interpreted as an attempt to clear and bolster his image in view of his bid for the \"Daily Telegraph\", Desmond sold the adult magazine business to Remnant Media for approximately £10 million. \nIn April 2004, the \"Daily Express\" reverted to supporting the Conservatives, after a period backing Labour. On the same day, Desmond accused \"The Daily Telegraph\", (with which he was a joint venture partner in the West Ferry newspaper printing plant) then considering accepting a takeover by the German Axel Springer group, of giving in to Nazis. Desmond reportedly harangued \"The Daily Telegraph\" chief executive and associates in faux German at a business meeting and imitated Adolf Hitler. This incident was described as a form of institutionalised racism prevalent among newspaper proprietors. Previously, in August 2001, the National Union of Journalists' chapel at the \"Express & Star\" also condemned Desmond for the newspaper's \"hysterical and racist\" campaign against asylum seekers; this campaign was also criticised by Yasmin Alibhai-Brown, writing for \"The Independent\" in June 2002.\n\nIn August 2005, the former executive editor of the \"Daily Express\" Ted Young made an out-of-court settlement with Desmond's company ahead of an industrial tribunal. This related to an incident with Desmond in the newsroom in September 2004, during which Desmond was said to have hit the journalist. Desmond has repeatedly denied the claims.\n\nDesmond is often referred to as \"Richard 'Dirty' Desmond\" or \"Dirty Des\" in the \"Private Eye\" magazine due to his company Northern & Shell formerly owning a number of pornographic magazines and television channels. Desmond was apparently \"wounded\" by references to himself as a pornographer. In an interview with BBC Breakfast in 2015, Desmond was referred to as Digi Des due to his investments in digital media. A headline in the \"Evening Standard\" in 2000 said \"Porn Publisher to Buy Express\" in reference to Desmond. In a 2002 interview for \"BBC Newsnight\" with Jeremy Paxman, Tony Blair was asked if it were appropriate to accept a controversial £100,000 donation from Desmond due to Desmond's links with the pornography industry, to which Blair replied \"if someone is fit and proper to own one of the major national newspaper groups in the country then there is no reason why we would not accept donations from them\". Desmond has emphasised that his material has been available through WHSmith and Freeview, saying that: \"If it was pornography you would end up in prison because pornography is illegal\". In 2008, Northern & Shell reported a turnover of £483.9 million.\n\nLitigation began at the High Court on 6 July 2009 over claims in journalist Tom Bower's joint biography of Conrad Black and Barbara Amiel, \"\", that Desmond had made a \"humiliating climbdown\" over an \"Express\" story at the end of 2002 on the state of Lord Black's finances, which it was alleged Desmond had ordered to be written.\n\nThis claim of a weakening of Desmond's \"super-tough\" reputation as a businessman was viewed as defamation by Desmond. Bower denied libel on the grounds of the story being \"substantially true\". The following day, the presiding judge The Hon. Mr Justice Eady, discharged the jury as \"fundamental\" evidence and legal submissions had emerged. The new jury later found in favour of Bower.\n\nA biography of Desmond, \"Rough Trader\", was written by Bower and printed in 2006, but still awaits publication.\n\nIn July 2010, Desmond bought the UK terrestrial-television channel Channel 5, which was losing money, from the German group RTL, for £103.5 million. \"Never before\", wrote Tom Bower in \"The Guardian\" at the time, \"has a government regulator (Ofcom) lowered the threshold for the suitability of the prospective owner of a TV channel enough for someone like Desmond to control a potentially lucrative franchise.\"\n\nThe new owner immediately proceeded to cut costs, starting with the dismissal of seven of Channel 5's nine directors, beginning a drive to eliminate \"£20m of yearly expenses\". The stated plan included the dismissal of up to 80 of the network's 300 employees.\n\nIn the year before Desmond acquired Channel 5 it had made a total loss of €41m (£37m), or a €9m loss at an operating level under its previous owner. Despite specific cost cutting, Desmond made significant investments in Channel 5 content, significantly increasing the programming budget. In the first full year of Desmond’s ownership of Channel 5, the broadcaster saw a 28% surge in revenue - the biggest TV advertising haul in the broadcaster's 14-year history - \"thanks to factors including the arrival of Big Brother and the return of a major media buying contract with Aegis\". He sold Channel 5 to Viacom for £463m in May 2014.\n\nBy December 2010, the privately owned publishing venture employed more than 2,000 people internationally, according to Desmond. Northern & Shell's business interests in pornography finally ended in April 2016 when the Portland Television subsidiary, which broadcasts Television X and the Red Hot channels, was sold for under £1 million in a management buyout.\n\nIn 2003, Desmond and Roger Daltrey formed the RD Crusaders, a rock group featuring Desmond on drums, to raise money for charitable causes. Since its inception, the group has raised around £14 million via a series of fundraising concerts for charities including Marie Curie, the Teenage Cancer Trust, Norwood Child Care and the Evelina Children's Hospital. As well as Daltrey and Desmond, the line-up occasionally includes Robert Plant, Lulu, Steve Harley, guitarists Russ Ballard (of Argent) and Rick Wills (of Foreigner and Bad Company), keyboardist Steve Smith and organist Zoot Money.\n\nDesmond, an active supporter of children's charities, became president of Norwood in 2006. Norwood is a leading UK Jewish charity, supporting vulnerable children, families and people with learning disabilities. He also ensured the attachment of his name to a children's centre at Moorfields Eye Hospital, by contributing £2.5m to the £15m project. The centre is the world's largest specialist paediatric eye clinic, a centre treating more than 25,000 children a year. The centre was officially inaugurated in 2007 by Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nIn December 2014, during the run up the 2015 general election, Desmond was reported to have agreed to donate £300,000 to the UK Independence Party. There was speculation at the time that a further donation could follow, and in April 2015 it was announced that he had given an additional £1 million to the party.\n\nDesmond's company, Northern and Shell, launched the Health Lottery in October 2011 of which around 20% of turnover goes to charity. The grants, distributed by the People's Health Trust (PHT), help many good causes and the elderly in local communities across the UK. By March 2018, The Health Lottery has raised nearly £100m for charities around the United Kingdom . It supports local health causes throughout England, Scotland and Wales. The Health Lottery was to return 20.34p per £1 lottery ticket to good causes, which was compared unfavourably with the National Lottery donating 28p per £1 ticket. Sir Stephen Bubb, then Chief Executive of the Association of Chief Executives of Voluntary Organisations, accused Desmond of \"profiteering on the back of charities\". However, The Health Lottery's public accounts confirm that, as of 2017, the company had not made a profit since inception. In December 2017, Sir Henry Bellingham, MP, North West Norfolk, led a debate in Westminster Hall with members of Parliament representing 5 parties from across the United Kingdom on the \"‘Future of Society Lotteries, the Health Lottery and limits on prize values’\". The debate concluded that the much-needed changes to the prize limits of these lotteries - to £1m - would receive widespread support - not just from the Government benches but from the entire House - if they were to be made by the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport.\n\nIn an article in the Financial Times on 12 November, Desmond announced his intention to bid for the National Lottery license when it comes up for renewal in 2019.\n\nDesmond and Janet Robertson were married for 27 years; the couple have a son, Robert. In October 2010, Janet filed for divorce on the grounds of his \"unreasonable behaviour\" and was granted a decree nisi from the court.\n\nHe married Joy Canfield, a former manager for British Airways, in 2012. The couple have two children; daughter Angel Millie (born 2011) and a son, Valentine (born 2015).\n\nThe tycoon's autobiography, \"The Real Deal: The Autobiography of Britain's Most Controversial Media Mogul\", was published in June 2015 by Random House. It was ghost-written by \"Sunday Express\" editor Martin Townsend. He also provided his voice for the audiobook version. The autobiography received a five-star review in the Desmond-owned \"Daily Express\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2731550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2731550", "title": "Satire Ménippée", "text": "Satire Ménippée\n\nThe Satire Ménippée () or \"La Satyre Ménippée de la vertu du Catholicon d'Espagne\" (written in 1593, published in Tours in 1594) was a political and satirical work (in French) in prose and verse which criticized the excesses of the Catholic League and Spanish pretensions during the Wars of Religion in France and defended the idea of an independent but Catholic France. The title derives from the classical Roman literary genre \"menippean satire\" which included a mixture of prose and verse.\n\nThe work was written during the Etats Généraux which were convened by Charles of Lorraine, Duke of Mayenne (leader of the Catholic League) in Paris (on February 10, 1593) in the hopes of electing himself to the French throne (replacing the pretender to the throne, the future Henry IV of France). The work was conceived by Pierre le Roy (canon of Rouen and chaplain to the cardinal of Bourbon) during discussions with friends (\"français en politique et gallicans en religion\" or \"French in politics and Gallicans in religion\") in Paris at the home of Jacques Gillot (canon of the Sainte-Chapelle). The work was written by Nicolas Rapin, Jean Passerat and Florent Chrestien, and edited/revised by Pierre Pithou.\n\nThe philosophy of the group around Pithou and Rapin and the \"Satire Ménippée\" is that of the \"Politiques\", moderate Catholics who privileged peace, conceived of a distinction between the State and Religion, and sought political accommodation with the Huguenots. By the end of the civil wars, the \"politiques\" were the favored target of attack of the Catholic League.\n\nThe work includes several remarkable passages, including a description of a procession and all the forces of the League, the public orations of the Duke of Mayenne, of the legate of the Pope, and of the cardinals Pelvé (attributed to Chrestien) and Aubray (attributed to Pithou). The writers paint the miseries of the nation and the blindness of their detractors, and they encourage an alliance of the people and the monarchy to save the nation.\n\nNotably, Diderot's \"Encyclopédie\" praises the work for its \"singularity\" and notes its usefulness to Henry IV.\n\nSatyre Menippee de la Vertu du Catholicon d'Espagne et de la tenue des Estats de Paris, MARTIN Martial (édition critique de), Paris, Honoré Champion, 2007, \"Textes de la Renaissance\", n° 117, 944 p. \n\n"}
{"id": "47891300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47891300", "title": "Sophie Walker", "text": "Sophie Walker\n\nSophie Walker (born 27 May 1971) is the Leader of the Women's Equality Party (WE) in the United Kingdom.\n\nShe was appointed as inaugural leader by the steering committee and was the unanimous choice; from 2017 the leadership will be decided by elections. Walker was also the party candidate in the 2016 London mayoral election.\n\nWalker was born on 27 May 1971, the daughter of Lesley and David Walker. She was born in Blackpool, in England, but grew up in Glasgow, in Scotland.\n\nShe attended university in England, studying English and French at the University of Reading. Walker then took a postgraduate diploma in newspaper journalism at City University, in London.\n\nWalker's early career was in journalism, working as a reporter and then as an editor at the Reuters news agency. She covered the fields of finance, business and trade, plus politics. She reported from London, Paris and Washington and from Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan.\n\nAs interim party leader, Walker launched the policy manifesto of the Women's Equality Party (WE) at Conway Hall, 20 October 2015. Walker had previously told BBC Radio Wales \"Sunday Supplement\" programme that the party would be taking a non-partisan approach to elections, \"We will be undertaking consultations with our members and deciding which seats to target.\" \n\nWalker was elected party leader in March 2018 with over 90% of the vote. The term of office is five years and is due to run until 2023.\n\nWalker stood for election in the London mayoral election held on 5 May 2016. She came sixth, with 53,055 votes (2% of the vote).\n\nWalker stood in the 2017 general election in Shipley, against the sitting Conservative MP Philip Davies, an anti-political correctness and men's rights campaigner. She received 1,040 votes (1.9%) and finished fourth out of four candidates. Three months later the Labour Party announced they would be targeting Shipley at the next election and their candidate would be selected from an all-women shortlist, Jo Pike was chosen in December the same year.\n\nWalker is married to Christopher Naylor, the chief executive officer of Barking and Dagenham council. They live in London and have one daughter.\n\nGrace, Walker's daughter from a previous marriage has Asperger's syndrome and Walker wrote a blog to give her daughter's life a voice. This was published as the book \"Grace Under Pressure\". Walker has accepted an advocacy role with the National Autistic Society.\n\nWalker has appeared on a number of media broadcasts within the UK including a panel discussion on free speech and equality with Jordan Peterson and Michael Fabricant for \"The Wright Stuff\" in which she stated, \"I think the difference between Jordan and me is that we look at evidence and we lean towards different theories. So, Jordan's theory is very much evolutionary, that there are inherent differences in men and women, mine is very much more social role theory, if you like, that men and women are taking on different roles due to the expectations that society puts on them.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21222862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21222862", "title": "Sustainable Commodity Initiative", "text": "Sustainable Commodity Initiative\n\nThe Sustainable Commodity Initiative (SCI) is a joint initiative launched by the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in 2003. The SCI works closely with the international community to discover ways to ensure that sustainable practices are adopted into commodity production and trade that enhance social, environmental and economic welfare on a global scale. The SCI was formed to facilitate the development of sustainable commodity production and trade sectors. The initiative works collaboratively with producers and producer organizations, voluntary sustainability initiatives (VSI's), the private sector, government institutions and development focussed NGO’s. The initiative receives project funding from numerous governments worldwide, United Nations agencies, foundations, the private sector and individual donors.\n\nThe SCI conducts targeted research on market impacts, facilities collaboration and information sharing across existing voluntary sustainability initiatives (VSI's) and facilitates policy and initiative development.\n\nSpecific objectives include:\n\nThrough ongoing multi-stakeholder consultation, the SCI identified five cross-cutting areas for the development of sustainable production practices across global supply chains, which include:\n\nThe SCI considers \"voluntary sustainability initiatives\" or \"VSI's\" to be any non-mandatory, rules based partnership or collaboration among multiple supply chain stakeholders aimed at improving the social, economic and environmental sustainability of commodity production and/or trade. Over the last decade, more than 20 new global VSI's have been established with the aim of\nleveraging market forces to promote sustainable development.\n\nExamples of operational VSI's include; Fairtrade, International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM), Forest Stewardship Council, Marine Stewardship Council, The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, Global Compact, ISO 14000, Global Reporting Initiative, CERES Principles etc.\n\nVoluntary initiatives have the potential to bring many benefits to international trade sectors including:\n\n\nVSI's also offer a vehicle for channelling a growing private sector interest in promoting sustainability towards common approaches and pooled investment. With the potential to create unified approaches and the economies of scale needed to bring about widespread change at the global level, voluntary supply-chain approaches are ready to establish a new paradigm for commodity production and trade.\n\n\"Cross-cutting\" initiatives seek to promote inter-initiative cooperation to improve efficiency, transparency and effectiveness within the sector. The growth in the number of NGO, government and industry led initiatives has increased the opportunities to promote sustainable practice in commodity sectors, but has also led to a multiplication of transaction and implementation costs that threaten the viability and impact of these approaches. Most initiatives have the potential to benefit considerably from shared learning and collaboration with service provision since they have similar objectives implement similar activitieson the ground.\n\nSince the majority of voluntary initiatives focus on the practices of individual supply chain actors, a largely untapped global \"macro\" oriented approach to production poses new opportunities for the development of sustainable commodity supply chains. In addition to carrying out its own inter-ininitiative collaboration, the SCI is either a participant or member of the following cross-cutting initiatives:\n\nThe Trade Standards Practitioners Network provides detailed descriptions of major VSI's across commodity sectors worldwide.\n\nThe Committee on Sustainability Assessment (COSA) project is a multi-stakeholder led research consortium assessing the costs and benefits of sustainability standards.\n\nRecent growth in sustainable markets has created new opportunities for producers in developing countries to sell higher priced specialty products and create more stable trading relationships. The adoption of sustainable production methods and the entry into sustainable markets however, is becoming increasingly more complicated for producers and other supply chain actors to navigate, especially as the number of sustainability programs/processes and certification bodies grow.\n\nWith a diverse range of sustainability programs to choose from, producers, consumers, policy-makers and companies lack independent, credible data on what it really means to become compliant with social, economic and environmental sustainability initiatives. To date, there is very little detailed information on the impacts of sustainability standards. Information is limited for example, on what costs and benefits producers experience when adopting compliance with any given sustainability initiative, and how much time it takes for producers to see returns on an investment in a particular sustainability initiative. Where information is available it is usually partial, often partisan and rarely based on comparable science-based methodologies. An apt analogy may be that we have designed a class of medicines but are not really certain of their full impact or to what extent they may have unintended side-effects. Since many standards are either requested or required by buyers in international markets, the need for improved information on field level impacts is urgent.\n\nThe Sustainable Commodity Initiative’s Committee on Sustainability Assessment (COSA) project was founded to strengthen the evidence base on the impacts of sustainable products and supply chains. COSA has developed a scientific methodology using multi-criteria analysis for gathering and understanding concrete, fact-based data on the outcomes associated with sustainability programs.\n\nThe COSA executive committee includes the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), Nicaragua’s Centro Agronómico Tropical de Investigación y Enseñanza (CATIE), Costa Rica’s [Centro de Inteligencia sobre Mercados Sostenibles] (CIMS/INCAE), France’s Centre de coopération internationale en recherche agronomique pour le développement (CIRAD) and Switzerland’s State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO). This committee, with the endorsement of the International Coffee Organization and initial seed support from USAID, NORAD and BTC, worked with leading institutions in several producing countries to adapt and develop the COSA methodology.\n\nCreated in 2007, the Finance Alliance for Sustainable Trade (FAST) is a member driven, non-profit international organization headquartered in Montreal, Canada. Its current membership base (over 100 members) represents Small and Medium Enterprise producer organizations, commercial and socially-oriented lenders, development focused NGOs, and other sustainable trade stakeholders.\n\nSmall and medium-sized enterprise (SME) producers have been identified as one of the most important drivers of economic growth and poverty reduction in developing countries. Sustainable SME producers are growing in number and are key drivers behind a global transition to sustainable trade. Currently, a major barrier facing the continued growth and development of SME's is the unmet need for external finance. Since entry into sustainable markets typically requires additional capital investment - many producers in developing countries simply cannot afford to invest in the transition.\n\nFAST's mission is to facilitate a global collaborative effort among its members to ensure continued growth of the sustainable trade sector. This is made possible by increasing the number of producers in developing countries who can successfully access affordable trade finance and longer-term loans, tailored to their business needs as they enter sustainable markets.\n\nThe SCI's role in the development of FAST dates back to 2003, when discussions among members of the SCI's Sustainable Coffee Partnership identified improving producer access to finance as a key strategy in achieving its core objectives of enabling the adoption of more sustainable practices across commodity markets. The SCI took the lead in convening FAST stakeholders at the Specialty Coffee Association of America's annual conference in 2005 and 2006 and continued to lead the process, along with steering committee participants, until FAST's formal establishment as a non-profit organization in 2007. Currently, the SCI and FAST work collaboratively on a number of projects.\n\nThe Sustainable Commodity Assistance Network (SCAN) partnership is a multi-initiative platform led by the Sustainable Commodity Initiative (SCI) and funded by HIVOS and Solidaridad. The goal of the SCAN partnership is to improve the livelihoods of rural commodity producers, workers and communities in developing countries by empower smallholder producer groups through focused technical assistance to undertake sustainable farm and business management practices and attain efficient entry into sustainable markets. SCAN will link the technical assistance efforts of VSI's through a common platform.\n\nSCAN is working with existing technical assistance providers, VSI's and development focussed NGO's to create a more cohesive global technical assistance platform that will address the following observations:\n\n\nThe State of Sustainability Initiatives (SSI) is a global initiative that will research and report on the impacts of market-based, voluntary approaches to sustainable commodity production and trade. The SSI is a knowledge-sharing programme that will improve information-sharing and transparency in voluntary supply chain initiatives through an independent annual reporting service and learning network. The SSI began in 2008 and is coordinated by the International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED), the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), AidEnvironment and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD).\n\nOver the past two decades a growing number of voluntary sustainability initiatives and other multi-stakeholder alliances have emerged to improve the livelihoods of the millions of commodity-dependent producers and manufacturers around the world. The growth of such initiatives represents an important opportunity for all stakeholders to participate in the greening of global supply chains and improvement of producer livelihoods. The multiplication of these initiatives makes it increasingly challenging for all stakeholders to stay abreast of the latest developments and best practices across the voluntary sector. Moreover, it is exceedingly difficult to assess their utility and performance, let alone the steps required to mainstream best practice. The reporting activities the SSI will enable stakeholders to interact with each other, helping them to benchmark performance and become more effective.\n\nThe State of Sustainability Initiatives Annual Review will begin in 2009 and will provide a regular overview of the voluntary initiatives sector, including statistics, market trends, performance metrics in development and use, forward looking strategies. Each annual issue will focus on the relationship between voluntary sustainability initiatives and a key sustainable development theme. The SSI will also peoduce journalistic updates on developments in sustainable commodity markets and voluntary initiatives around the world, and thematic reports and briefings.\n\nSCI Research projects in 2008 included:\n\nThe SCI frequently publishes research reports, working papers and policy briefings and recommendations. The majority of the SCI's publications are available to download as pdfs from the SCI website and hard copies of many can be ordered.\n\n"}
{"id": "206208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206208", "title": "Swedish-speaking population of Finland", "text": "Swedish-speaking population of Finland\n\nThe Swedish-speaking population of Finland (whose members are often called Swedish-speaking Finns, Finland-Swedes, Finland Swedes, Finnish Swedes, or Swedes of Finland—see below; ; ; the term Swedo-Finnish—; —can be used as an attribute) is a linguistic minority in Finland. They maintain a strong identity and are seen either as a separate ethnic group, while still being Finns, or as a distinct nationality. They speak Finland Swedish, which encompasses both a standard language and distinct dialects that are mutually intelligible with the dialects spoken in Sweden and, to a lesser extent, other Scandinavian languages.\n\nAccording to Statistics Finland, Swedish is the mother tongue of about 270,000 people in mainland Finland and of about 25,000 people in Åland, a self-governing archipelago of islands off the west coast of Finland, where Swedish speakers constitute a majority. Swedish-speakers comprise 5.4% of the total Finnish population or about 4.9% without Åland. The proportion has been steadily diminishing since the early 19th century, when Swedish was the mother tongue of approximately 15% of the population and considered a prestige language. According to a statistical analysis made by Fjalar Finnäs, the population of the minority group is today stable and may even be increasing slightly in total numbers since more parents from bilingual families tend to register their children as Swedish speakers. It is estimated that 70% of bilingual families—that is, ones with one parent Finnish-speaking and the other Swedish-speaking—register their children as Swedish-speaking.\n\nThe Swedish term \"finlandssvensk\" (literally \"Finland-Swede\"), which is used by the group itself, does not have an established English translation. The Society of Swedish Authors in Finland and the main political institutions for the Swedish-speaking minority such as the Swedish People's Party and Swedish Assembly of Finland use the expression \"Swedish-speaking population of Finland\", but Swedish-speaking NGOs often use the term Finland-Swedes.\n\nThe Research Institute for the Languages of Finland proposes \"Swedish-speaking Finns\", \"Swedish Finns\", or \"Finland-Swedes\", the first of which is the sole form used on the institute's website. Some debators insist for the use of the more traditional English-language form, \"Finland-Swedes\", as they view the labelling of them as \"Swedish-speaking Finns\" as a way of depriving them their ethnic affiliation, reducing it to merely a matter of language and de-emphasising the \"Swedish part\" of Finland-Swedish identity, i.e. their relations to Sweden.\n\nAmong Finnish Americans the term \"Swede-Finn\" became dominant before the independence of Finland in 1917, and the term has remained common to the present, despite later immigrants tending to use different terms such as \"Finland-Swede\". The expressions \"Swedish-speaking Finns\", \"Swedes of Finland\", \"Finland Swedes\", \"Finnish Swedes\", and \"Swedish Finns\" are all used in academic literature.\n\nThe age of the Swedish-speaking population in the territory that today constitutes Finland was a subject of fierce debate in the early 20th century as a part of the Finland's language strife. Some Finland-Swede scholars, such as Ralf Saxén, Knut Hugo Pipping and Tor Karsten, used place names in trying to prove that the Swedish settlement in Finland dates back to prehistoric times. Their views were opposed mainly by Heikki Ojansuu in the 1920s.\n\nIn 1966, the historian Hämäläinen (as referenced by McRae 1993) addressed the strong correlation between the scholar's mother-tongue and the views on the age and continuity of the Scandinavian settlement history of Finland.\n\"Whereas Finnish-speaking scholars tended to deny or minimize the presence of Swedish-speakers before the historically documented Swedish expeditions starting from the 12th century, Swedish-speaking scholars have found archeological and philological evidence for a continuous and Swedish or Germanic presence in Finland from pre-historic times.\"\n\nSince the late 20th century, several Swedish-speaking philologists, archaeologists and historians from Finland have criticized the theories of Germanic/Scandinavian continuity in Finland. Current research has established that the Swedish-speaking population and Swedish place names in Finland date to the Swedish colonisation of Uusimaa and Ostrobothnia coastal regions of Finland in the 12th and 13th centuries.\n\nThe first Swedish arrivals in Finland have often been linked to the putative First Swedish Crusade (ca. 1150) which, if it took place, served to expand Christianity and annex Finnish territories to the kingdom of Sweden. Simultaneously the growth of population in Sweden, together with lack of land, resulted in Swedish settlements in Southern and Western coastal areas of Finland. The Second Swedish Crusade against the Tavastians in the 13th century extended the Swedish settlements to Uusimaa. During the 14th century, the population expansion from Sweden proper increasingly took the form of organised mass migration: the new settlers came in large numbers in large ships from various parts of Sweden's Eastern coast, from Småland to Hälsingland. Their departure from Sweden proper to Finland was encouraged and organized by the Swedish authorities. The coast of Ostrobothnia received large-scale Swedish settlements during the 13th and 15th centuries, in parallel with events that resulted in Swedish expansion to Norrland and Estonia's coastal area.\n\nThe proportion of Swedish speakers in Finland has declined since the 18th century, when almost 20% spoke Swedish (these 18th-century statistics excluded Karelia and Kexholm County, which were ceded to Russia in 1743, and the northern parts of present-day Finland were counted as part of Norrland). When the Grand Duchy of Finland was formed and Karelia was reunited with Finland, the share of Swedish speakers was 15% of the population.\nDuring the 19th century a national awakening occurred in Finland. It was supported by the Russian central administration for practical reasons, as a security measure to weaken Swedish influence in Finland. This trend was reinforced by the general wave of nationalism in Europe in the mid-19th century. As a result, under the influence of the German idea of one national language, a strong movement arose that promoted the use of the Finnish language in education, research and administration. Many influential Swedish-speaking families learned Finnish, fennicized their names and changed their everyday language to Finnish, sometimes not a very easy task. This linguistic change had many similarities with the linguistic and cultural revival of 19th century Lithuania where many former Polish speakers expressed their affiliation with the Lithuanian nation by adopting Lithuanian as their spoken language. As the educated class in Finland was almost entirely Swedish-speaking, the first generation of the Finnish nationalists and Fennomans came predominantly from a Swedish-speaking background.\n\nThe language issue was not primarily an issue of ethnicity, but an ideological and philosophical issue as to what language policy would best preserve Finland as a nation. This also explains why so many academically educated Swedish speakers changed to Finnish: it was motivated by ideology. Both parties had the same patriotic objectives, but their methods were completely the opposite. The language strife would continue up until World War II.\n\nThe majority of the population – both Swedish and Finnish speakers – were farmers, fishermen and other workers. The farmers lived mainly in unilingual areas, while the other workers lived in bilingual areas such as Helsinki. This co-existence gave birth to Helsinki slang – a Finnish slang with novel slang words of Finnish, local and common Swedish and Russian origin. Helsinki was primarily Swedish-speaking until the late 19th century, see further: Fennicization of Helsinki.\n\nThe Finnish-speaking parties, under the lead of Senator E.N Setälä who played a major role in the drafting the language act (1922) and the language paragraphs (1919) in the Finnish constitution, interpreted the language provisions so that they are not supposed to suggest the existence of two nationalities. According to this view Finland has two national languages but only one nationality. This view was never shared in the Swedish-speaking political circles and paved the way for a linguistic conflict. Contrary to the Finnish-speaking view the leaders of the Swedish nationality movement (Axel Lille and others) maintained that the Swedish population of Finland constituted a nationality of its own and the provisions of the constitution act were seen to support the view. The Finnish-speaking political circles denoted the cultural rights of Finland-Swedes as minority rights. The Finland-Swedish political view emphasized the equality of the Swedish nationality next to the Finnish-speaking nationality and the fact the national languages of Finland were the languages of the respective nationalities of the country, not the languages of the state itself. The concept of minority, although de facto the case for Swedish speakers, was perceived as being against the spirit of the constitution. However, gradually after the Second World War, the concept of minority has been increasingly applied to Swedish speakers, even within the Finland-Swedish political discourse.\n\nThe Swedish nationality movement was effectively mobilized during the aftermath of Finnish independence and the civil war that shortly followed. The Swedish assembly of Finland was founded to protect the linguistic integrity of Swedish-speakers and seek fixed territorial guarantees for the Swedish language for those parts of the country where Swedish speakers made up the local majority. The Finnish-speaking parties and leadership studiously avoided self-government for Swedish speakers in the Finnish mainland. Of the broader wishes of the Swedish-speaking political movement only cultural concessions—most notably administrative autonomy for Swedish schools and a Swedish diocese—were realized, which nevertheless were sufficient to prevent more thorough conflict between the ethno-linguistic groups.\n\nThe urbanization and industrialization that began in the late 19th century increased the interaction between people speaking different languages with each other, especially in the bigger towns. Helsinki (Helsingfors in Swedish and dominantly used until the late 19th century), named after medieval settlers from the Swedish province of Hälsingland, still mainly Swedish speaking in the beginning of the 19th century, attracted Finnish-speaking workers, civil servants and university students from other parts of Finland, as did other Swedish-speaking areas. As a result, the originally unilingual Swedish-speaking coastal regions in the province of Nyland Uusimaa were cut into two parts. There was a smaller migration in the opposite direction, and a few Swedish-speaking \"islands\" emerged in towns like Tampere, Oulu and Kotka.\n\nAccording to official statistics, Swedish speakers made up 12.89% of the total population of Finland of 2.6 million in 1900. By 1950 the share had fallen to 8.64% of a total of 4 million people. By 1990 the share was 5.94% of 5 million people. This sharp decline has since levelled off to a decline of 0.02% or 0.03% per year.\n\nAn important contribution to the decline of Swedish speakers in Finland during the second half of the 20th century was that many Swedish speakers emigrated to Sweden. An estimated 30% – 50% of all Finnish citizens who moved to Sweden were Swedish-speaking Finns. Reliable statistics are not available, as the Swedish authorities, as opposed to their Finnish counterpart, do not register languages. Another reason is that the natural increase of the Finnish-speakers has been somewhat faster than that of the Swedish-speakers until recent times, when the trend has reversed.\n\nDuring most of the 20th century, marriages across language borders tended to result in children becoming Finnish speakers, and knowledge of Swedish declined. During the last decades the trend has been reversed: many bilingual families chose to register their children as Swedish speakers and put their children in Swedish schools. One motive is the language skills needed during their professional lives. Population statistics do not recognize bilingualism.\n\nThe Finnish substrate toponyms (place names) within today's Swedish-speaking areas have been interpreted as indicative of earlier Finnish settlements in the area. A toponymical analysis from e.g. the Turunmaa archipelago—today largely Swedish-speaking—suggests the existence of a large population of native Finnish speakers up until the early modern age. Whether the Finnish settlements prior the arrival of the Swedes have been permanent or seasonal is debated. According to another toponymic study, some Finnish villages and farms on the south-western coast and the archipelago became Swedish-speaking by assimilation.\n\nAccording to another view (e.g. Tarkiainen 2008) the two major areas of Swedish language speakers (Uusimaa and Ostrobothnia) were largely uninhabited at the time of the arrival of Swedes.\n\nAccording to an interpretation based on the results of recent (2008) genome-wide SNP scans and on church records from the early modern period, Swedish-speaking peasantry has been overwhelmingly endogamous. Historian Tarkiainen (2008) presents that from the late Middle Ages onwards until relatively recent times, Swedish-speaking peasants tended to select their marriage partners from the same parish, often from the same village as themselves. This tends to be the rule among traditional peasant communities everywhere. As tightly-knit peasant communities tend to assimilate potential newcomers very quickly, this has meant that most marriages within the Swedish-speaking peasantry during this period were contracted with members of the same language group. During the time of early immigration by Swedes to the coastal regions (approximatively between 1150 and 1350), the situation was different and according to a study from the 1970s (as referenced by Tarkiainen, 2008) the intermarriage rate between local Finns and Swedish newcomers was considerable. According to Tarkiainen, in the areas of initial Swedish immigration, the local Finns were assimilated into the Swedish-speaking population.\n\nThe Finland-Swedish folklore at the coast has been traditionally maritime influenced. The themes for the folklore are typical in the Nordic context. Stories and tales involving the evil water-spirit are in central. The origins of the tales have been German and French from where they have adapted to the Nordic-milieu. The (Finland)-Swedish folklore has had a significant impact also to the folklore of Finnish-speakers.\n\nFinland-Swedish literature has a rich legacy. Under the lead of Edith Södergran, who also captivated audiences in English-speaking world, Gunnar Björling and Elmer Diktonius, the Finland-Swedish modernists of the early 20th century had a significant impact for the whole Scandinavian modernism.\n\nTove Jansson is perhaps the most renowned example of Finland-Swedish prose. Her Moomin books have fascinated children and adults throughout the world.\n\nIn a 2008 study a joint analysis was performed for the first time on Swedish and Finnish autosomal genotypes. Swedish-speakers from Ostrobothnia (reference population of the study representing 40% of all Swedish-speakers in Finland) did not differ significantly from the neighbouring, adjacent Finnish-speaking populations but formed a genetic cluster with the Swedes and also the amount of genetic admixture between the groups which have taken place historically. According to a 2008 Y-DNA study, a Swedish-speaking reference group from Larsmo, Ostrobothnia, differed significantly from the Finnish-speaking sub-populations in the country in terms of Y-STR variation. This study however was comparing one small Swedish-speaking municipality of 4652 inhabitants to Finnish-speaking provinces and only tells about the origin of two different Y-DNA haplotypes.\n\nAccording to a sociological study published in 1981, the Swedish-speaking Finns meet the four major criteria for a separate ethnic group: self-identification of ethnicity, language, social structure, and ancestry. However, not all Swedish-speaking Finns are willing to self-identify as representatives of a distinct ethnicity. The major political organisation representing the Swedish-speakers in Finland, the Swedish People's Party, has defined the Swedish-speaking Finns as a people who express Finnish identity in the Swedish language. The issue is debated: an opposite view is still that the Swedish-speaking Finns are a sub-group of the ethnic Swedes, \"östsvenskar\" or \"East Swedes\".\n\nDespite these varying viewpoints, the Swedish-speaking population in Finland in general have their own identity distinct from that of the majority, and they wish to be recognized as such. In speaking Swedish, Swedish-speaking Finns predominantly use the Swedish word \"finländare\" (approximately translatable as \"Finlanders\") when referring to all Finnish nationals. The purpose is to use a term that includes both themselves and Finnish-speaking Finns because the Swedish word \"finnar\", in Finland-Swedish usage, implies a Finnish-speaking Finn. In Sweden, this distinction between \"finländare\" and \"finnar\" is not widely understood and often not made.\n\nIn literature regarding to international law and minority rights, a view that the Swedish-speakers in Finland not only constitute an ethnic minority but a distinct nationality has also been presented.\n\nMarriages between Swedish- and Finnish-speakers are nowadays very common. According to a study commissioned by the Swedish Assembly of Finland in 2005, 48.5% of all families with children where at least one of the parents was Swedish-speaking were bilingual in the sense of one parent being Swedish- and the other Finnish-speaking (only families living in those municipalities where Swedish was at least a co-official language were included in this study). 67.7% of the children from these bilingual families were registered as Swedish-speaking. The proportion of those who attended schools where Swedish was the language of instruction was even higher. The Finnish authorities classify a person as a Swedish- or Finnish-speaker based only upon that person's (or parent's) own choice, which can be changed at any time. It is only possible to be registered either as Swedish- or Finnish-speaking, not both as in Canada, for example. It is significantly more common nowadays than it used to be for children from bilingual families to be registered as Swedish-speaking.\n\nAreas of modern-day Finland were integrated into the Swedish realm in the 13th century, at a time when that realm was still in the process of being formed. At the time of Late Middle Ages Latin was still the language of instruction from the secondary school upwards and in use among the educated class and priests. As Finland was part of Sweden proper for 550 years, Swedish was the language of the nobility, administration and education. Hence the two highest estates of the realm, i.e. nobles and priests, had Swedish as their language. In the two minor estates, burghers and peasants, Swedish also held sway, but in a more varying degree depending on regional differences.\n\nMost noble families of the medieval period arrived directly from Sweden. A significant minority of the nobility had foreign origins (predominantly German), but their descendants normally adopted Swedish as their first language.\n\nThe clergy in the earlier part the formation of the Lutheran Church (in its High Church form) was constituted most often of the wealthier strata of the peasantry with the closely linked medieval Finnish nobility and the rising burgher class in the expanding cities. The Church required fluency in Finnish from clergymen serving in predominantly or totally Finnish-speaking parishes (most of the country); consequently clerical families tended to maintain a high degree of functional bilingualism. Clerical families in the whole seem to have been more fluent in Finnish than the burghers as whole. In the Middle Ages, commerce in the Swedish realm, including Finland, was dominated by German merchants who immigrated in large numbers to the cities and towns of Sweden and Finland. As a result, the wealthier burghers in Sweden (and in cities as Turku (Åbo) and Vyborg (Viborg)) during the late Middle Ages tended to be of German origin. In the 19th century, a new wave of immigration came from German-speaking countries predominantly connected to commercial activities, which has formed a notable part of the grand bourgeoisie in Finland to this day .\n\nAfter the Finnish war, Sweden lost Finland to Russia. During the period of Russian sovereignty (1809–1917) the Finnish language was promoted by the Russian authorities as a way to sever the cultural and emotional ties with Sweden and to counter the threat of a reunion with Sweden. Consequently, the Finnish language began to replace Swedish in the administrative and cultural sphere during the later part of the 19th century.\n\nThe rise of the Finnish language to an increasingly prevalent position in society was, at the outset, mainly a construct of eager promoters of the Finnish language from the higher strata of society, mainly with Swedish-speaking family backgrounds. A later development, especially at the beginning of the 20th century, was the adoption or translation or modification of Swedish surnames into Finnish (fennicization). This was generally done throughout the entire society. In upper-class families it was predominantly in cadet branches of families that the name translations took place.\n\nOpposition to the Swedish language was partly based around historical prejudices and conflicts that had sprung up during the 19th century. The intensified language strife and the aspiration to raise the Finnish language and Finnic culture from peasant status to the position of a national language and a national culture gave rise to negative portrayals of Swedish speakers as foreign oppressors of the peaceful Finnish-speaking peasant.\n\nEven though the proportional distribution of Swedish-speakers among different social strata closely reflects that of the general population, there is still a lingering conception of Swedish as a language of the historical upper class culture of Finland. This is reinforced by the fact that Swedish-speakers are statistically overrepresented among \"old money \" families as well as within the Finnish nobility consisting of about 6000 persons, of which about two thirds are Swedish-speakers. Still the majority of the Swedish-speaking Finns have traditionally been farmers and fishermen from the Finnish coastal municipalities and archipelago.\n\nFinland is a bilingual country according to its constitution. This means that members of the Swedish language minority have the right to communicate with the state authorities in their mother tongue.\n\nOn the municipal level, this right is legally restricted to municipalities with a certain minimum of speakers of the minority language. All Finnish communities and towns are classified as either monolingual or bilingual. When the proportion of the minority language increases to 8% (or 3000), then the municipality is defined as bilingual, and when it falls below 6%, the municipality becomes monolingual. In bilingual municipalities, all civil servants must have satisfactory language skill in either Finnish or Swedish (in addition to native-level skill in the other language). Both languages can be used in all communications with the civil servants in such a town. Public signs (such as street and traffic signs, as illustrated) are in both languages in bilingual towns and municipalities the name in majority language being on the top.\n\nThe Swedish-speaking areas in Finnish Mainland do not have fixed territorial protection, unlike the languages of several national minorities in Central Europe such as German in Belgium and North Italy. This has caused a heated debate among Swedish-speaking Finns. The current language act of Finland has been criticized as inadequate instrument to protect the linguistic rights of Swedish-speaking Finns in practice. The criticism was partly legitimized by the report (2008) conducted by Finnish government which showed severe problems in the practical implementation of the language act. The recent administrative reforms in Finland have caused harsh criticism in the Swedish-speaking media and created fear over the survival of Swedish as an administrative language in Finland. A special status in the form partial self-determination and fixed protection for Swedish language in Swedish-speaking municipalities have been proposed in Finland's Swedish-speaking media.\n\nFollowing an educational reform in the 1970s, both Swedish and Finnish became compulsory school subjects. The school subjects are not called \"Finnish\" or \"Swedish\"; the primary language in which lessons are taught depends upon the pupil's mother tongue. This language of instruction is officially and in general practice called the \"mother tongue\" (' in Finnish, ' in Swedish). The secondary language, as a school subject, is called the \"other domestic language\" (' in Finnish, ' in Swedish). Lessons in the \"other domestic language\" usually start in the third, fifth or seventh form of comprehensive school and are a part of the curriculum in all secondary education. In polytechnics and universities, all students are required to pass an examination in the \"other domestic language\" on a level that enables them to be employed as civil servants in bilingual offices and communities. The actual linguistic abilities of those who have passed the various examinations however vary considerably.\n\nBeing a small minority usually leads to functional bilingualism. Swedish-speaking Finns are more fluent in Finnish than Finnish-speakers are in Swedish due to the practical matter of living in a predominantly Finnish-speaking country. In big cities with a significant Swedish-speaking population such as Helsinki and Turku, most of them are fluent in both Swedish and Finnish. Although in some municipalities Swedish is the only official language, Finnish is the dominant language in most towns and at most employers in Finland. In areas with a Finnish-speaking majority, Finnish is most often used when interacting with strangers and known Finnish speakers. However, 50% of all Swedish speakers live in areas in which Swedish is the majority language and in which they can use Swedish in all or most contexts (see demographics below).\n\nOf the Swedish-speaking population of Finland:\n\n\nThere is a small community of Swedish-speaking immigrants in Finland. Many of them come from Sweden, or have resided there (about 8,500 Swedish citizens live in Finland and around 30,000 residents in Finland were born in Sweden), while others have opted for Swedish because it is the main language in the city in which they live, or because their partners are Swedish-speaking. About one quarter of immigrants in the Helsinki area would choose to integrate in Swedish if they had the option. According to a report by Finland's Swedish think tank, Magma, there is a widespread perception among immigrants that they are more easily integrated in the Swedish-speaking community than in the majority society. However, some immigrants also question whether they ever will be fully accepted as Finland Swedes. Swedish-speaking immigrants also have their own association, Ifisk and in the capital region there is a publicly financed project named \"Delaktig\" aimed at facilitating integration of immigrants who know or wish to learn Swedish. Most if not all immigrants also wish to be fluent in Finnish due to the fact that it is the dominant language in Finnish society.\n\nSwedish speakers have migrated to many parts of the world. For a number of reasons such as geographic and linguistic among others Sweden has traditionally been the number one destination for Swedish-speaking emigrants and about 65 000 Finland-Swedes live in Sweden, according to \"\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4875288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4875288", "title": "T. J. Clark (art historian)", "text": "T. J. Clark (art historian)\n\nTimothy James \"T.J.\" Clark (born 12 April 1943 in Bristol, England) is a British art historian and writer. He taught art history in a number of universities in England and the United States, including Harvard and the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nClark has been influential in developing the field of art history, examining modern paintings as an articulation of the social and political conditions of modern life. His orientation is distinctly leftist, and he has often referred to himself as a Marxist.\n\nClark attended Bristol Grammar School. He completed his undergraduate studies at St John's College, Cambridge, he obtained a first-class honours degree in 1964. He received his PhD in art history from the Courtauld Institute of Art, University of London in 1973. He lectured at the University of Essex 1967–69 and then at Camberwell College of Arts as a senior lecturer, 1970–74.\n\nDuring this time he was also a member of the British Section of the Situationist International, from which he was expelled along with the other members of the English section. He was also involved in the group King Mob.\n\nIn 1973 he published two books based on his PhD dissertation: \"The Absolute Bourgeois: Artists and Politics in France, 1848–1851\" and \"Image of the People: Gustave Courbet and the Second French Republic, 1848–1851.\" He taught at the University of California, Los Angeles in 1974–76. In 1976, he became a founding member of the Caucus for Marxism and Art of the College Art Association.\n\nClark returned to Britain in 1976 when he was appointed professor and head of the Department of Fine Art at the University of Leeds. In 1980 Clark joined the Department of Fine Arts at Harvard University, which angered some of the more conservative, connoisseurship-oriented faculty members, especially the Renaissance art historian Sydney Freedberg, with whom he had a public feud.\n\nIn 1982 he published an essay, \"Clement Greenberg's Theory of Art\", critical of prevailing Modernist theory, which prompted a notable and pointed exchange with Michael Fried. This exchange contributed to the debate between formalist and social histories of art.\n\nClark's works have taken art history in a new direction, away from traditional preoccupations with style and iconography. His books regard modern paintings as expressions of sociopolitical conditions in modern life.\n\nIn 1988 he joined the faculty at the University of California, Berkeley, where he held the George C. and Helen N. Pardee Chair as Professor of Modern Art until his retirement.\n\nIn 1991 Clark was awarded the College Art Association's Distinguished Teaching of Art History Award. Notable students include Brigid Doherty, Hollis Clayson, Thomas E. Crow, Margaret Werth, Nancy Locke, Christina Kiaer, Michael Kimmelman, Howard Lay, Michael Leja, Ara H. Merjian, Richard Meyer, John O'Brian, Bridget Alsdorf, Matthew Jackson, Joshua Shannon, and Jonathan Weinberg.\n\nAs a member of Retort, a Bay Area-based collective of radical intellectuals, he co-authored the book \"Afflicted Powers: Capital and Spectacle in a New Age of War\", published by Verso Books in 2005.\n\nIn 2005 Clark received a Mellon Foundation Distinguished Achievement Award. In 2006 he received an honorary degree from the Courtauld Institute of Art. He and his wife Anne Wagner, who also taught art history at Berkeley, retired in 2010 and moved to London. He continues to be active as a guest lecturer, author, and now as a poet. His book \"Picasso and Truth: From Cubism to Guernica\" is based on his Mellon Lectures in Fine Art delivered in spring 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24750948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24750948", "title": "Texas Workforce Commission", "text": "Texas Workforce Commission\n\nThe Texas Workforce Commission is a governmental agency in the U.S. state of Texas that provides unemployment benefits and services related to employment to eligible individuals and businesses.\n\nFor employers, TWC offers recruiting, retention, training and retraining, and outplacement services, as well as valuable information on labor law and unemployment insurance, tax-saving programs and labor market planning. For job seekers, TWC offers career development information, job search resources, training programs, and administers the unemployment benefits program.\n\nTWC's online job-matching system, WorkInTexas.com, features thousands of opportunities for Texas jobseekers and qualified applicants for Texas employers.\n\nOne large program, the Skills Development Fund, is Texas' premier job–training program providing training dollars for Texas businesses to help workers learn new skills and upgrade existing skills.\n\nThrough TWC's new \"Texas Back to Work\" program, employers can earn up to $2,000 for each new employee they hire who has been receiving unemployment insurance.\n\nTWC also administers the Texas Payday Law, Texas Child Labor Law and Child Care Services. TWC works with 28 Local Workforce Development Boards to provide employment assistance and promote self-sufficiency for customers. The boards oversee the delivery of child care services, employment and training programs for welfare recipients, as well as planning employment services in their area's Texas Workforce Centers. They also direct the services called for under the Workforce Investment Act.\nThe agency is headquartered in Downtown Austin.\n\nTWC is responsible for administering the Texas Commission on Human Rights Act to investigate and regulate unlawful forms of discrimination in employment in the state of Texas. The Texas Commission on Human Rights Act (TCHRA) is codified in chapter 21 of the Texas Labor Code although it is commonly still referred to as the TCHRA. The TCHRA/chapter 21 of the Texas Labor Code empowers the TWC similar to the federal Equal Employment Opportunities Commission (EEOC) with analogous responsibilities at the state level.\n\nIn 2016, several vocational rehabilitation services provided through the Department of Assistive and Rehabilitation Services were transferred. These included:\n•The Vocational Rehabilitation program for individuals with visual impairments, including the Criss Cole Rehabilitation Center\n•The Vocational Rehabilitation program for individuals with other disabilities\n•The Business Enterprises of Texas program\n•The Independent Living Services program for older individuals who are blind.\n\nIn 2018, the Coalition of Texans with Disabilities threatened to sue because TWC staff were not offering to help Texans with disabilities receiving VR services register to vote or updating voter registration information under the 1993 National Voter Registration Act. This service had previously been provided by DARS.TWC Staff later agreed to provide the services in a letter signed by the Texas Secretary of State \nIn 2013, a Fort Worth TWC employee was sentenced to six months in federal prison for identity theft and mail fraud. Deshon Haynes diverted unemployment insurance of deceased individuals and at least five other claimants. Haynes was also required to pay full restitution.\n\nIn 2011, the TWC was involved in a data breach exposing personal information of 3.5 million Texans, Encryption procedures to conceal Social Security, names, addresses, and other identifying material had not been utilized. The Texas Attorney General and the FBI reviewed security procedures \n\n"}
{"id": "896352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=896352", "title": "The Global Trap", "text": "The Global Trap\n\nDie Globalisierungsfalle: Der Angriff auf Demokratie und Wohlstand is a 1996 non-fiction book by Hans-Peter Martin (born 1957 in Bregenz, Austria), and Harald Schumann (born 1957 in Kassel, Germany), that describes possible implications of current trends in globalisation. It was published in English as The Global Trap: Globalization and the Assault on Democracy and Prosperity in 1997. At this time, both authors were editors of the news magazine Der Spiegel. From 1999 to 2014, Hans-Peter Martin, who is stated in the book to be one of just three journalists to be allowed to take part in all activities at the Fairmont convention, was a member of the European Parliament.\n\nThe book was a best-seller in the author's native Austria and Germany and went on to be a worldwide bestseller with over 800,000 copies sold and translated into 27 languages.\n\nIn particular, the book is known for defining a possible \"20/80 society\". In this possible society of the 21st century, 20 percent of the working age population will be enough to keep the world economy going. The other 80 percent live on some form of welfare and are entertained with a concept called \"tittytainment\", which aims at keeping the 80 percent of frustrated citizens happy with a mixture of deadeningly predictable, lowest common denominator entertainment for the soul and nourishment for the body.\n\nThe book deals mainly with the effects of globalization. It describes a growing social divide as a result of \"delimitation\" of the economy and a loss of political control by the state over the economic development, which is increasingly controlled by global corporations. The authors warn of a so-called \"20-to-80-society\". They describe how a global 80:20 distribution already exists in many aspects, and illustrate possible economic, social and political consequences of free trade and deregulated financial markets.\n\nIn the beginning, they describe how at a conference at the invitation of Mikhail Gorbachev with 500 leading politicians, business leaders and academics from all continents from September 27 - October 1st 1995 at the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco, the term \"one-fifth-society\" arose. The authors describe an increase in productivity caused by the decrease in the amount of work, so this could be done by one-fifth of the global labor force and leave four-fifths of the working age people out of work. The authors predict huge number of unemployed, perhaps finding themselves in low-paid voluntary community services to boost their morale.\n\n"}
{"id": "15835437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15835437", "title": "The Radical Therapist", "text": "The Radical Therapist\n\nThe Radical Therapist was a journal that emerged in the early 1970s in the context of the counter-culture and the radical U.S. antiwar movement. It was an \"alternate journal\" in the mental health field that published 12 issues between 1970 and 1972, and \"voiced pointed criticisms of psychiatrists during this period\". It was run by a group of psychiatrists and activists who believed that mental illness was best treated by social change, not behaviour modification. Their motto was \"Therapy means social, political and personal change, not adjustment\".\n\nIn the 1960s, a movement developed to challenge many principals of psychiatry and dispute the mental health system as a successful humanitarian enterprise. The challenge came from Ernest Becker, Erving Goffman, R.D. Laing, Thomas Scheff, and Thomas Szasz. Their writings, along with articles in the journal \"The Radical Therapist\", were given the umbrella label anti-psychiatry despite wide divergences in philosophy. This critical literature, with an associated left-wing activist movement, \"emphasized the hegemony of medical model psychiatry, its spurious sources of authority, its mystification of human problems, and the more oppressive practices of the mental health system, such as involuntary hospitalisation, drugging, and electroshock\".\n\n\"The Radical Therapist\" took shape in the winter of 1969, in Minot, North Dakota, the product of three officers in the U.S. Air Force Regional Hospital. The idea for the journal came from Michael Glenn, a psychiatrist who had recently arrived as Chief of Neurology and Psychiatry. He was joined by David Bryan, the hospital social worker, and by Michael Galan, an MBA working in the hospital business office. The three of them further developed the idea, and — with Sara Glenn and Linda Bryan — formed the Radical Therapist Collective. The Collective solicited articles, contributing editors and subscriptions, and worked to produce and distribute the journal. After a year, they were joined by Deborah Levitt, from Bennington, Vermont, who had traveled cross-country to work with them. Their manifesto stated: \nWhy have we begun another journal? No other publication meets the need we feel exists: to unite all people concerned with the radical analysis of therapy in this society. It is time we grouped together and made common cause. We need to exchange experience and ideas, and join others working toward change. The other “professional” journals are essentially establishment organs which back the status quo on most controversial issues… We need a new forum for our views.\n\nIn the midst of a society tormented by war, racism, and social turmoil, therapy goes on with business as usual. In fact, therapists often look suspiciously at social change and label as ‘disturbed’ those who press towards it.\n\nTherapy today has become a commodity, a means of social control. We reject such an approach to people`s distress. We reject the pleasant careers with which the system rewards its adherents. The social system must change, and we will be workers toward such change. \nThe Manifesto promised that the journal would provide a needed forum for all people working in the therapy fields; work to liberate therapy, therapists and others from backwards ideology; help develop new training programs; encourage the elaboration of a new psychology of men and women, as well as a new concept of family and community life; foster the development of more responsive therapy programs under client control; encourage new techniques; and confront the various ways U.S. society uses mental health institutions to oppress various people.\n\nThe journal was highly critical of the “Establishment” and all its institutions. In this sense, \"The Radical Therapist\" was similar to \"The Insurgent Sociologist\", \"Science for the People\", \"Radical Teacher\", and other publications that targeted various groups of professionals whose political spectrum included left-leaning, radical, and revolutionary-minded activists.\n\nDuring its time in Minot, the journal was typeset and published locally, and mailed out via a collective effort. The journal printed articles critiquing the therapy “establishment” and its practice and outlining a “radical” approach to the ways therapy could be used instead. It enthusiastically promoted women’s liberation and gay liberation, and critically examined how therapy ideology and practice were alleged to contribute to sexist and homophobic oppression, and to the oppression and abuse of mental patients. “The Radical Therapist” also spoke out against the Vietnam War, racism, and the greed of consumerist society, and it was an early supporter of the struggle of mental patients for their rights.\n\nContributing editors and authors while the RT was in Minot included Joe Berke, Judith Brown, Phil Brown, Phyllis Chesler, Larry Constantine, Rona Fields, Dennis Jaffe, Kenneth Keniston, David Koulack, Rick Kunnes, Terry Kupers, Howard Levy, Robert Jay Lifton, Ken Locke, Peter Roemer, Kris Rosenthal, Steve Sharfstein, Pam Skinner, Claude Steiner, Irving Weisberg, Steve Wood and others. Early issues of \"The Radical Therapist\" also reprinted and made more widely available articles such as Anne Koedt’s “The Myth of the Vaginal Orgasm,” Carol Hanish’s “The Personal is Political,” and Howard Levy’s “Prison Psychiatry\".\n\nThe 3rd issue of the RT focussed entirely on Women. It examined both women’s oppression and women’s psychology. The issue began with an editorial by the feminist Judith Brown, and followed with the Redstockings’ “Manifesto;” a critique of male supremacy, private property and the family by Carol Giardina; and a reprint of Naomi Weisstein’s “Kinder, Kuche Kirche.”’ There were also articles by Kathie Sarachild, Phyllis Chesler, Marilyn Zweig, Martha Shelley, and others, as well as a Women’s Liberation bibliography.\n\nDuring its first year, The Radical Therapist worked collegially with many other groups, including Psychologists for a Democratic Society, the Radical Caucus of the American Psychiatric Association, the Radical Caucus in the American Orthopsychiatry Association, the Association for Women in Psychology, the Feminist Psychology Coalition, the Medical Committee for Human Rights, Psychologists for Social Action, Joe Berke’s Anti-Psychiatry group in London, Claude Steiner’s “Radical Psychiatry” movement in Berkeley, Dennis and Yvonne Jaffe’s Number Nine in New Haven, and other radical groups in the therapy and health professions. It reported on developments affecting mental health issues around the country, and published a list of radical therapy centers around the country.\n\nMany of the articles which appeared during the first year of the RT were collected together in \"The Radical Therapist\", (Ballantine Books, New York, 1971), an anthology gathered together by the collective and produced by Jerome Agel.\n\nVolume Two of \"The Radical Therapist\" began in Minot in April 1971. But the collective only published that one issue (Number 1) of Volume Two from Minot. That summer, after David Bryan, Michael Galan, and Michael Glenn were discharged from the Air Force, the collective moved from North Dakota to Somerville, Massachusetts. Volume Two, Number 2 which appeared in September 1971, would be the product of a substantially different collective.\n\nThe new Radical Therapist Collective that formed in Somerville in the late summer of 1971 included Michael Glenn, Sara Snow (Glenn) and Debbie Levitt from the Minot group, as well as Michael Galan, who continued to handle the business aspects of the journal. Phil Brown, who had been active in Psychologists for a Democratic Society, and who had enthusiastically worked with the journal since its inception, moved from New York to join the collective that summer; so did Nancy Henley, an activist feminist psychologist from Baltimore. Other new members joined the Somerville collective over the next few months. These included the therapists John Bayliss, Cynthia Ganung, and Chuck Robinson; as well as Anne Mine, Christine Nozchese and Laurin Pensel. After publishing the first Somerville issue (Volume Two, Number 2) the third issue was entirely devoted to articles from the Radical Psychiatry movement in Berkeley, California — including a number of articles by Claude Steiner, Hogie Wyckoff, and Dot Vance.\n\nBy the winter of 1971, sharp political struggle had broken out in the collective over issues of elitism and professionalism. Some members raised questions as to whether therapists really had any skills at all, and whether the field had simply mystified its practices. There were also questions as to the journal’s real audience. The use of the words “radical” and “therapist” were heatedly debated; many in the collective held them to be suspect. The struggle spilled onto the pages of the journal itself. Therapists who were deeply critical of their own therapy “establishment” now found themselves having to defend therapy as a \"bona fide\" discipline — and themselves as “privileged” individuals. Contention among the collective about the journal’s name, and by implication its base and audience, deepened. Some members of the collective felt that the original focus on therapy professionals had been both limited and elitist, and the more revolutionary-minded staff members urged the journal to go beyond the therapy world and expand its support to all bona fide liberation movements. More and more, the collective simply called the journal the “RT.” Soon after arriving in Somerville, the collective established close ties with the mental patients' rights movement, including the Mental Patients Liberation Front in Boston and many others throughout North America. The RT quickly began publishing articles by its leaders, which were sharply critical of the therapy profession as a whole for tolerating and participating in a wide range of abusive psychiatric practices.\n\nWith the April 1972 issue (Volume Two, number 6), the collective changed the journal’s name to Rough Times, and stopped being a publication aimed predominantly at mental health professionals. As Nancy Henley recalled in 1980, “Many of us (and our readers) disliked the original name when it became clear that this might be a contradiction in terms, there was much more to combat than therapeutic practice; radical had bad connotations for some, therapist did for others, [and] the magazine wasn’t necessarily by or for therapists….”\n\nBy July 1972 (Volume Two, Number 8), almost all the members of the Somerville collective with any clinical therapy experience (or an identity as “therapists”) had left. From this point on, the journal’s articles were mainly written by and for people who were not therapists.\n\nIn December 1972, the RT Collective published an article, \"Combat Liberalism in Radical Therapy,\" formally criticizing the Radical Psychiatry Center group in Berkeley. The article was sparked by the RPC's efforts to promote its own new journal to the RT's readers and by genuine political differences. The RT said it had relayed criticisms to the RPC in private, but they had been ignored. The criticisms therefore had to be made publicly. The RT decried the RPC as individualistic and middle-class. It said the RPC avoided political action or organizing, and instead clung to their elite status as therapists. \"Hip therapies are part of the system,\" the Collective said. The RPC was too concerned with ways of \"getting it together\" and elaborating \"how to do it\" techniques, rather than \"attacking the real political/economic/social bases of power.\" They also ignored mental patients' organizing as a major force in the mental health arena.\n\nThe RPC did not respond, but instead continued to promote its own journal, \"Issues in Radical Therapy\". After this time, the “IRT” contained articles that were concerned with “radical therapy,” whereas \"Rough Times\" focussed on exposing the abuses and oppressive institutional practices of the mental health profession, as well as on promoting liberation struggles in the U.S. and around the world, especially the movement of mental patients to defend and claim their rights.\n\nIn the second collection of articles from the RT that appeared (Rough Times, Ballantine Books, 1973—also produced by Jerome Agel), the new collective clarified its ideological perspective further:\nA year ago we were fewer in number and tucked away in North Dakota. Although we had different positions on RT’s role in making a revolution, there was a de facto consensus of aiming our work toward professionals, students, and intellectuals, believing that they held the key to radical work in the mental health fields. We have been finding, primarily in the last half year, that while some of those people are open to change, most of them are too comfortable in their professionally detached attitudes, pseudo-hip life-styles, and removed position from world revolution as well as personal change.\n\nWe began to see our position in terms of being part of a revolutionary movement. Our goals were more linked to a broad-based socialist movement than to a radical caucus at a professional convention. We began to reassert, with more force and conviction, that RT should be part of a movement to build a revolutionary new world.\nBy the time Volume Three, Number 1 of \"Rough Times formerly The Radical Therapist\" came out in December 1972, the collective had contracted down to a few people. An “RT Position Paper” laid out the staff’s evolved position: support for worldwide socialist revolution; belief in the exploitation of labor as today’s primary cause of people’s oppression; support for all just liberation struggles; deep involvement in and support for the mental health/self-help struggle; belief that the psychological/psychiatric establishment per se is a tool of oppression and that mental illness is a myth; demands for an end to abuses of mental patients; dedication to a search for new, liberating ways of helping people in emotional pain; and at the same time an openness to working with therapy professionals who could identify with the interests of the people.\n\n“Rough Times” continued on for several more years, continuing to contain sections such as “Unmasking the Enemy,” “Mental Hospitals,” and “On the Move.” It reported on the struggles of mental patients for their rights and against all forms of abusive treatment. And it continued to support movements for liberation — for women, gays, mental patients, and others — around the world.\n\nEventually, somewhere around 1975, “Rough Times” changed its name to “State and Mind.” As such, it continued into the 1980s. Its 10th anniversary issue in the summer of 1980 contained a personal retrospective article by Nancy Henley entitled “Ten Years in the Life of a Radical Psychology Journal.”\n\nIn 1974, the psychiatrist John Talbott published an article critical of \"The Radical Therapist\" in the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\". The piece reviewed articles published in the first twelve issues, and included commentary by Dr. Talbott.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32032690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32032690", "title": "The Revolution Will Not Be Microwaved", "text": "The Revolution Will Not Be Microwaved\n\nThe Revolution Will Not Be Microwaved: Inside America's Underground Food Movements is a 2003 book by food activist Sandor Katz that examines how contemporary food production differs drastically from our recent past. The author challenges the corporate food industry as well as the way we think about food. He suggests how traditional cultural practices of sustainable agriculture might subvert the corporate farm system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "485037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=485037", "title": "Urban guerrilla warfare", "text": "Urban guerrilla warfare\n\nAn urban guerrilla is someone who fights a government using unconventional warfare or domestic terrorism in an urban environment.\n\nThe urban guerrilla phenomenon is essentially one of industrialised society, resting both on the presence of large urban agglomerations where hideouts are easy to find and on a theory of alienation proper to the modern society of mass consumption.\n\nMichael Collins, a commander of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) is often considered to be the father of modern urban guerrilla warfare. In April 1919 an elite assassination unit, known as The Squad or \"Twelve Apostles\" was created in Dublin. The unit was tasked with hunting down and executing British Intelligence operatives in the city, they can be considered one of the first true urban guerrilla units.\n\nHistorically guerrilla warfare was a rural phenomenon, it was not until the 1960s that the limitations of this form were clearly demonstrated. The technique was almost entirely ineffective when used outside of the later colonial environment, as was shown by the Cuban sponsored efforts in Latin America during the 1960s culminating in the \"foco\" campaign headed by Che Guevara in Bolivia that culminated in his death. The need for the target government to be simultaneously incompetent, iniquitous, and politically isolated was rarely met.\n\nThe failure of rural insurgency forced the discontented to find new avenues for action, essentially random terrorism aimed at creating maximum publicity, provoking the targeted regimes into excessive repression and so inciting the general population to join a wider revolutionary struggle. This movement found its mentor in the leader of the ephemeral Ação Libertadora Nacional, Carlos Marighela. Before his death in 1969 he wrote the \"Minimanual of the Urban Guerrilla\" which, between the polemics, gave clear advice on strategy and was quickly adopted by others around the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLeftists:\n\nFascists:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLeftists:\n\nFascists:\n\nLeftists:\n\nFascists:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNationalists\n\n\n\nHowever, not all urban political violence can be labeled as \"urban guerrilla\". The Black Panther Party might not qualify, due to its public nature, although its policy of \"self-defense\" was interchangeable with a policy of armed struggle in militarily occupied African American communities. Similarly the Italian Autonomia movement, and the German Autonomen engaged in urban political violence, but not as urban guerrillas due to their policies of public, mass and non-deadly violence.\n\nIn the 1970s BBC comedy \"Citizen Smith\" Wolfie Smith, the leader of the fictional \"Tooting Popular Front\" described himself as an Urban Guerrilla.\n\n\nSuggested readings:\n\n"}
