{"id": "4983607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4983607", "title": "Acherusa", "text": "Acherusa\n\nAcherusa is a lake that lies near the city of Christ, according to chapters 22 – 23 of the extracanonical \"Apocalypse of Paul\":\n\nAcherusa is also mentioned in the older, fragmentary work \"The Apocalypse of Peter\", though in \"Peter\" it is a field, rather than a lake:\n\nThe name appears to be derived from the Greek \"akherousai\", which means \"marshlike water\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1746820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1746820", "title": "Arabic Bayán", "text": "Arabic Bayán\n\nThe Arabic Bayán is a book written by the Báb around 1848. Its larger sister book is the \"Persian Bayán\". The work is incomplete, containing only eleven Vahids. Each Vahid serves as a chapter and contains nineteen Abwab. The grammar is highly irregular. The work was composed while the Báb was imprisoned in Maku, Iran.\n"}
{"id": "17260410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17260410", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Norway", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Norway\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Norway began with contact between traveling Scandinavians with early Persian believers of the Bahá'í Faith in the mid-to-late 19th century. Bahá'ís first visited Scandinavia in the 1920s following `Abdu'l-Bahá's, then head of the religion, request outlining Norway among the countries Bahá'ís should pioneer to and the first Bahá'í to settle in Norway was Johanna Schubartt. Following a period of more Bahá'í pioneers coming to the country, Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies spread across Norway while the national community eventually formed a Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly in 1962. In 2010 the national census reported around 1000 Bahá'ís in the country however the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 2700 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nThe first mentions of the religion happened in the era when Norway was politically united with Sweden; the first mention of the Báb, who Bahá'ís view as the herald to the founder of the religion, Bahá'u'lláh, was published in accounts of Persian travels in 1869, and the first mentions of Bahá'u'lláh were made in 1896.\n\nRagna Linné was a nineteenth and twentieth century classical soprano born in Oslo during the period of Union between Sweden and Norway and of Swedish/Norwegian roots who encountered the Bahá'í Faith after she moved to Chicago. She traveled back to Norway at least in 1908. She was visible as a Bahá'í circa 1908 in newspapers and to 1916 in the magazine Star of the West by Bahá'ís. She was at the 1912 convention, attended by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, then head of the religion.\n\nSwedish Sufi Ivan Aguéli was able to meet `Abdu'l-Bahá, in 1912 in Egypt.\n\nThe next steps in the history of the Bahá'í Faith in Norway start after the political independence of Norway from Sweden in 1905. `Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The seventh of the tablets was the first to mention several countries in Europe including beyond where `Abdu'l-Bahá had visited in 1911-12 and 1912-13. Written on April 11, 1916, it was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. World traveling Bahá'í journalist Martha Root's subsequently visited King Haakon VII of Norway among her many trips. The seventh tablet was translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919.\n\n\"In brief, this world-consuming war has set such a conflagration to the hearts that no word can describe it. In all the countries of the world the longing for universal peace is taking possession of the consciousness of men. There is not a soul who does not yearn for concord and peace. A most wonderful state of receptivity is being realized.… Therefore, O ye believers of God! Show ye an effort and after this war spread ye the synopsis of the divine teachings in the British Isles, France, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Russia, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Portugal, Rumania, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, San Marino, Balearic Isles, Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, Malta, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Shetland Islands, Hebrides and Orkney Islands.\"\n\nFollowing the release of these tablets a few Bahá'ís began moving to or at least visiting countries across Europe. August Rudd became the first Bahá'í pioneer in Scandinavia (Sweden) in 1920. Johanne Høeg became the first citizen of Denmark to become a Bahá'í (see Bahá'í Faith in Denmark.)\n\nJohanna (Christensen) Schubarth is called the \"Mother Bahá'í of Norway\". She was born in 1877 in Sandefjord. She moved to the United States and learned of the Bahá'í Faith from May Maxwell in 1919. She returned to Norway in 1927. Dagmar Dole was another early pioneer. In 1934 Martha Root returned to Oslo for a number of speaking engagements through 1935 and met up with Lidia Zamenhof whom she had known for a decade since her conversion to the religion, for some Esperanto conventions. A 1946 telegram of Shoghi Effendi, head of the religion after the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá, called for pioneers to the capitals of several countries including Norway. The first Local Spiritual Assembly of Oslo formed in 1948 with Schubartt. A 1950 European Teaching Conference in Denmark, including Dagmar Dole, coordinated pioneers - two Americans settled in the Lofoten Islands in 1953 and in 1955 a pioneer reached extreme northern Batsfjord. Schubarth died in 1952 and is buried in Oslo. Svalbard is sometimes mentioned as a remote location - it's off northern Norway. A Bahá'í had settled there in 1958.\n\nThe first Local Spiritual Assembly was formed in Oslo in 1948. As the religion spread across Scandinavia it reached the point where a regional National Spiritual Assembly for Norway, Finland, Sweden and Denmark was established in 1957. Meanwhile, pioneers continued to arrive from other counties—a British Bahá'í settled for a time in Spitsbergen in 1958 though later a Norwegian couple moved there in 1970. The second Norwegian Local Spiritual Assembly formed in Bergen in 1955, and a third in Stavanger in 1960.\n\nIn 1962-3 Norway added two Local Spiritual Assemblies in Bergen, and Hetland, with smaller groups between one and nine adults in Bærum and Fana and isolated Bahá'ís in Ås, Harstad, Kristiansund, Laksevåg, Narvik, Sandefjord, Sandnes, and Stokmarknes.\n\nIn 1962 Norway, also, elected its own National Spiritual Assembly. The Sami people had a Local Spiritual Assembly in Trondheim in 1969 with the conversion of the first of their people to the Bahá'í Faith. In 1973 Local Assemblies were added in Lillehammer, Bærum and Bodø; in 1979 in Hurum and Gjøvik and in 1984 in Tromsø.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. The National Spiritual Assembly of Norway established an institution—the Norwegian Agency for International Development Cooperation—and in 1988 it began a working relationship with India's New Era Development Institute (see New Era High School), with support for a two-year rural community development program. In 1989, funding was extended to cover a one-year community development facilitators course and short courses on agriculture, rural technology, literacy, and domestic science. But controversy has also served to focus the efforts of the community. In 1983 the Universal House of Justice, current elected head of the religion, addressed a letter to the National Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Norway concerning practices of meditation—it appears many Norwegian Bahá'ís were particularly attracted to the practice but had differences of opinion about the place and practice of meditation. In an attempt to start \"a campaign of spiritualization of the Bahá'í community\" called for by the House of Justice, a committee in Norway had established a meditation class at a summer school that offered one particular method. Observing that as Bahá'u'lláh had not outlined any method of mediation, the House of Justice cautioned that any private personal choice on a method of meditation should not be institutionalized or mandated. The House of Justice elaborated that the community was struggling with the regrettable atmosphere of appalling suffering brought on by religions in the past -that there had arisen a kind of revulsion of various kinds of personal and public spiritual practices of religion that the Bahá'í Faith nevertheless does stress and outlined them as follows:\n\n\nFrom 1998 through 2001 the Bahá'í International Community and the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Norway committed to participating in Norwegian interfaith initiatives resulting in an Oslo Declaration on Freedom of Religion or Belief.\n\nIn the late 1990s by one count there were 173 Bahá'ís per million population in Norway which implies around 800 Bahá'ís while by 2005 a Norwegian Census reports just over 1000 Bahá'ís. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 2,700 Bahá'ís in 2005. In May 2001 the Bahá'í youth gathered for \"Project Panacea\" for a Bahá'í Youth Workshop (see Oscar DeGruy) including public performances. There have been successive Youth Conferences across Scandinavia since 2004 and there exists a Bahá'i Student Club of Oslo University. In July 2008, the Norwegian translation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas was unveiled.\n\nIn 2000 Norway rose in support of a United Nations human rights resolution about concern over the Bahá'ís in Iran as well as taking steps to further document conditions. The Norwegian government supported the declaration of the Presidency of the European Union when he \"denounced\" the trial of Iranian Bahá'ís announced in February 2009. See Persecution of Bahá'ís.\n\nLasse Thoresen has been a Bahá'í since about 1971 (he was elected as NSA Secretary in 1975) and is a professor with the Norwegian Academy of Music with a graduate degree in composition from the Oslo Music Conservatory, where he studied under Finn Mortensen. From 1988 to 2000 Thoresen occupied the principal chair of composition at the Norwegian Academy of Music in Oslo. Among his compositions is \"The Carmel Eulogies\", a symphony that premiered in Oslo in 1993 with repeated performances since. Commissioned by the Oslo Philharmonic Orchestra on the occasion of its 75th jubilee, the symphony consists of two parts, \"Fragrances of Mercy\" and \"Circumambulations.\" The rhythm of saying \"Allah'u'Abha\" (\"God the All-Glorious\") is inherent in the work, which is based on the Bahá'u'lláh's Tablet of Carmel. The symphony was critically acclaimed, and many members of the audience were visibly moved during the performance. It was broadcast live on national radio and taped for later airing on the national television network.\n\nMargun Risa is another Norwegian Bahá'í artist - she's a singer/teacher who studied at Rogaland academy in Stavanger. Risa became a Bahá'í about 1976 and in 1986 was invited to sing for the opening of the Lotus Temple in New Delhi. In 1992 Thoresen asked Risa to sing as part of the opening of the Second Bahá'í World Congress. Later Risa studied under Anne Brown, an American who was the first to sing the part of Bess in Gerschwin's opera, Porgy and Bess.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8214288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8214288", "title": "Bishmizzine", "text": "Bishmizzine\n\nBishmizzine (), or Bishmezzine, Bechmezzine, Beshmizzine, Bishmezzine, is a village in the Koura district of the North Governorate of Lebanon. It is about 275 meters above sea level. Bishmizzine borders the villages of Afisdeeq, Kfar-Hazir, Amyoun, Fi', and B'terram.\n\nBishmizzine is known for its export of intellectuals. The genetic lineage is mixed as is the whole of Lebanon. The inhabitants are representative of the Lebanese genetic pool comprising mainly Arab and Mediterranean people. The people are friendly, educated and hospitable.\n\nThe people are Greek Orthodox and other confessions.\nThere is a minority of Sunni Muslims. There are several historical churches and a mosque and local shrines throughout the village. In addition, there are also residents of other Christian sects, such as Maronite and Protestant. All places of worship are located near the village center.\n\nBishmizzine rests in the middle of the Koura plain, probably one of the largest uninterrupted olive groves in the world. It is bordered by hills and thus winter rain flows in water ways down to the town. The village rests on a large aquifer and this underground water body partially explains the extremes in climate when compared to neighbouring villages. For example, thin ice develops overnight in winter while it does not in neighbouring villages. At night the temperature may differ by 5 to 7 degrees C lower than the nearby adjacent surrounding hills or neighboring villages. Another factor that may play a role in explaining this climate conundrum is the fact that Bishmizzine rests in the plain at the base of the Western Lebanese Range of mountains and is surrounded by hills which act to trap any cold air that may flow by convection down the range from as high up as the Cedars of Lebanon in Bcharre. Hence there was a climatology station for the government in the village that utilized the temperature of the plain at 4 to 5 am before sunrise in an equation to arbitrarily calculate the temperature at the top of the mountain range. In the old days this environmental phenomena was counteracted by a pine forest that used to blockade the cold night air advancing down the mountain slopes towards the town. Remnants of this pine forest remain to this day and act as a picnic zone visited by many. The argylls soil in Bishmizzine has been sought after by cement factories that find its characteristics favorable for quality cement production. This has been a blessing and a curse at the same time. The blessing is obviously financial for the land owner and jobs created in the nearby cement factories however the environmental impact has been catastrophic. Huge deep excavation areas emptied of soil remained after the removal of the soil. These areas then filled up with rain water during the winter and resulted in a swamp/wetland like environment with rising humidity. The damp environment as well as soil erosion have rendered the surrounding area susceptible to fungal diseases ex olive leaf spot or peacock eye spot \"Spilocea oleaginea \" which infested initially the area around the excavations and then spread to involve the surrounding olive fields rendering the once productive olive groves unproductive. This disease now infests olives in an area up to 4 km away from the epicenter. Noteworthy is the recent natural transformation of these excavation sites from a swamp to a wetland habitat with flora and fauna uncharacteristic of Lebanon. This transformation has recently stopped soil erosion and stabilized the habitat. Also this phenomenon has become a source of inquiry for botanists curious as to where some of the atypical flora came from ex. reeds characteristic of the Nile or Danube. Since Bishmizzine lies on the route of migratory birds some experts have postulated that the water holes became a rest area for migrating birds ex storks and hence the seeds were carried in their feathers from distant areas. The disease burden of fungal olive disease peacock eye remains high however and a concerted effort by farmers, government and NGOs is needed. A large area of Bishmizzine remains free of fungal disease and produces some of the best extra virgin olive oil and table olives in the area.\n\nThe climate of Bishmizzine is characterized by a dry-summer subtropical Mediterranean climate, and thus has moderate weather throughout the seasons. Summers are hot and dry, while winters are rainy with occasional light snow.\n\nBichmizzine is known for its active community and municipality.\n\n\nElectricity is supplied by the grid from the concessions of Quadisha electric company part of Electricité du Lebanon (EDL). There is a privately owned diesel generator which supplies the village in the event of power shortage. Also many villagers own their own generator. Water is supplied through a deep well tapping the underground aquifer and maintained by regular fees paid by the villagers. Waste management is mainly through underground waste pools, though a system of waste collection has been partly laid out as part of the plan to collect the waste of the region in a waste management plant. Telephones exist in nearly every house as well as low speed internet access. Wireless coverage is excellent and covers all the Bishmizzine area.\n\nText to be added.\nFruits consist mainly of : Olive trees producing quality table olives and olive oil, Quince (Sfargal), Grapes: seedless and non seedless, Pine producing quality pine seeds, Citrus trees, cactus, pomegranate and a variety of other fruits in non commercial quantity ex. Apples, apricot, mulberry, peaches, plums. Vegetables include mainly peas, fava beans, sumac, and wild cucumbers as well as a small scale privately owned organic farm producing many quality vegetables ex. Cucumber, parsley, radish, mint, tomato, onion, garlic. Some fields are planted with corn, wheat, oat and barely but in non commercial quantities. Previously almonds were produced in commercial quantity but have been wiped out by an almond virus 25 years ago and have not been replanted also wild scented roses were produced in large quantity and a factory for rose essence existed but is no longer. Oak trees grow sporadically in the fields and are used for biofuels. Livestock consist of a small dairy farm and few poultry farms. The main experimental farm for the Koura Development Council is situated in Bishmizzine and is the site of several educational lectures and events for the farmers and Koura intellectuals.\n\nRelies mostly on global immigrants from the village returning for the holidays whether from the Lebanese cities or from abroad. The financial return is negligible and never truly exploited. The presence of some buildings of architectural beauty built hundreds of years ago has been an attraction for university scholars. The water collection systems and wells built also hundreds of years ago has been neglected but some remain to this day. The pine forest is a source of small scale local outings. The four ancient churches are visited on a small scale by the locals or scouts camping nearby or for prayer on the patron saint's day. One church, Virgin Mary, in the middle of the old village dates back to the crusader era. Recently outings and festivals to gather the villagers have been arranged. Shops that sell refreshments, ice-cream and snacks exist for the tourists that pass through on their way to major tourist destinations ex. Balamand Monastery or University, Bsharre Cedars, Ehden or Zghourta.\n\nEasily accessible from the main highway (Autostrade Al Arz) passing in neighbouring Kfarhazir and Amioun (Cedar highway). The roads are satisfactory and well maintained by the municipality. The road through town leads either to Balamand University through Afsdik, Fih and Qulhat or to Zghourta/ Tripoli through Btouram and Abaa. Also the old Cedar road remains which connects Bishmizzine to Amioun and the new highway.\nMany agricultural routes through the olive groves and fields are a source of pleasure to the hiker.\n\nBishmizzine High School offers two programs of study for students: A full educational program from Nursery to Baccalaureate II designed to be compatible with the requirements of the Lebanese Ministry of Education.\n\nA small public clinic exists with limited capabilities but provides vital services. An eye clinic supported by a non-private organization offers services for a nominal fee. Private doctor clinics exist for different specialities. There are 2 pharmacies available. There are nearby hospitals that are easily accessible: Borgi Hospital in Amioun is 5 minutes away, Kura Hospital is 15 minutes away and North Lebanon Hospital(CHN)in Zghourta is 25 minutes away. The Red cross based in nearby Amioun provides free EMS service ex. patient first aid and transportation.\n\nOne of the many Lebanese villages where the number of inhabitants is a speck compared to the number of villagers abroad. Global emigration occurred as far back as the mid 19th century with records showing young men and families migrating to the new world mainly Australia and the Americas (North and South). This emigration was greatly hastened after the economic ill fortunes of the silk textile factories after the advent of cheap artificial silk by the far east. The economy in the mid to late 19th century relied heavily on silkworms and silk spinning and weaving with at least 5 large factories in Bishmizzine alone each sustaining at least 40 workers. The first world war also took its toll and the civil war and its repercussions. The emigration continues till the present day. Some families are extinct and others are greatly reduced in number. However, in the diaspora, if you visit any major city or town especially in Brazil, Argentina, Australia, or the USA you will almost certainly find someone whose ancestors come from this village. During holidays, especially summer, many of the empty houses are joyfully cleaned and return to life with visiting families.\n\nThere is a playground maintained by a local club where volleyball matches are held. Once a year in summer a volleyball tournament is organized and many teams participate. This event is attended by many fans from neighboring villages and by many villagers living abroad who happen to visit their loved ones for the summer vacation. Also there is a private tennis club with 3 playgrounds and night illumination and a tennis coach capable of providing private lessons. The excavations by cement factories in the plain have left ditches that are adored by those that like extreme driving with four wheel drive vehicles or offroad motor bikes through the challenging terrain. In addition there is a private club with auditorium where dancing lessons and other activities are provided. Horse back riding is also possible at a ranch. Hiking through the olive groves and fields is a popular sport for many visitors. In addition Bichmezzine volleyball team are the champions in all of Koura district.\n\n"}
{"id": "1610318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610318", "title": "Bochasanwasi Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha", "text": "Bochasanwasi Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha\n\nBochasanwasi Akshar Purushottam Sanstha (BAPS) (IAST: \"\"), is a Hindu religious and social organization within the Swaminarayan branch of Hinduism. BAPS was established on 5 June 1907 by Shastriji Maharaj after leaving the Vadtal Gadi of the Swaminarayan Sampraday. It was formed on the founder's interpretation that Swaminarayan was to remain present on earth through a lineage of Gunatit Gurus or Akshar dating all the way back to Gunatitanand Swami - one of Swaminarayan's prominent devotees. Gunatitanand Swami was succeeded by Bhagatji Maharaj, Shastriji Maharaj, Yogiji Maharaj, Pramukh Swami Maharaj and Mahant Swami Maharaj. Due to the organizational emphasis on the Akshar Purushottam doctrine, it essentially forms the organization's middle name. The fundamental beliefs of BAPS include the spiritual guidance through the living Akshar or Guru who is believed to have attained oneness with Swaminarayan. Mahant Swami Maharaj is the current Guru and the president of the organization.\n\nAs a global well established Hindu organization, BAPS actively engages in a range of endeavors aimed at spirituality, character-building, and human welfare. The activities span religious, cultural, social, and humanitarian domains. Through these activities, it aims to preserve Indian culture, ideals of Hindu faith, family unity, selfless service, interfaith harmony and peaceful coexistence. 55,000 volunteers and 3,300 temples serve 3,300 communities around the world. As of August 2018 the BAPS has approximately 1,560 saints or Sadhus, among the most saints in one sanstha in Hinduism. \nAs part of its efforts towards community outreach, BAPS also engages in a host of humanitarian and charitable endeavors, by which its volunteers serve neighbors and communities. Through the BAPS Charities non-profit aid organization, With total assets valued approximately at 2.23 lakh crore INR roughly 30.7 billion USD in 2018 the BAPS has spearheaded a number of projects around the world in the arenas of healthcare, education, environmental causes, and community-building campaigns.\n\nThe mandir, known as a Hindu place of worship, serves as a hub for the spiritual, cultural, and humanitarian activities of BAPS. The organization has about 1,300 mandirs and a total of 3,300 volunteer-run centers spanning five continents. In the tradition of the Bhakti Movement, Swaminarayan and his spiritual successors began erecting mandirs to provide a means to uphold proper devotion to God on the path towards moksha, or ultimate liberation. BAPS mandirs thus facilitate devotional commitment to the Akshar Purushottam Upasana, in which followers strive to reach the spiritually perfect state of Aksharbrahman, or the ideal devotee, thereby gaining the ability to properly worship Purushottam, the Supreme Godhead.\n\nThe offering of bhakti, or devotion to God, remains at the center of mandir activities. In all BAPS Swaminarayan mandirs, murtis, or sacred images of Swaminarayan, Gunatitanand Swami, BAPS guru's and other deities, are enshrined in the inner sanctum. After completion of prana pratishta or life-force installation ceremonies, the deities are believed to reside in the murtis, and are thus subjects of direct worship through sacred daily rituals. In many mandirs, murtis are adorned with clothes and ornaments and devotees come to perform darshan, the act of worshiping the deity by viewing the sacred image. Aarti, which is a ritual of waving lit lamps in circular motions to illuminate the different parts of the murti while singing a song of praise, is performed five times daily in shikharbaddha mandirs and twice daily in smaller mandirs. Additionally, food is offered to the murtis amidst the singing of devotional songs three times a day as part of the ritual of thaal, and the sanctified food is then distributed to devotees. Daily readings of and discourses on various Hindu scriptures also take place in the mandir. Many mandirs are also home to BAPS sadhus, or monks. On weekends, assemblies are held in which sadhus and devotees deliver discourses on a variety of spiritual topics. During these assemblies, bhakti is offered in the form of call-and-response hymns (\"kirtans\") with traditional musical accompaniment. Religious assemblies also take place for children and teenagers of various age ranges. Throughout the year, mandirs celebrate traditional Hindu festivals. Assemblies with special discourses, kirtans, and other performances are arranged to commemorate Rama Navami, Janmashtami, Diwali, and other major Hindu holidays. Members of the sect are known as Satsangies. Male Satsangies are generally initiated by obtaining a kanthi at the hands of a sadhu or senior male devotee while females receive the vartman from the senior women followers.\n\nIn addition to being focal points of religious activity, BAPS mandirs are also centers of culture. Many forms of traditional Indian art have their roots in Hindu scriptures and have been preserved and flourished in the setting of mandirs. Many BAPS mandirs outside of India hold Gujarati classes to facilitate scriptural study, instruction in traditional dance forms in preparation for performances in festival assemblies, and music classes where students are taught how to play traditional instruments such as tabla. Many devotees view the mandir as a place for transmission of knowledge of Hindu values and their incorporation into daily routines, family life, and careers.\n\nApart from classes teaching about religion and culture, mandirs are also the site of activities focused on youth development. Many centers organize college preparatory classes, leadership training seminars and workplace skills development workshops. Many centers host women's conferences aimed at empowering young women. They also host sports tournaments and initiatives to promote healthy lifestyles among children and youth. Many centers also host parenting seminars, marriage counseling, and events for family bonding.\n\nBAPS mandirs and cultural centers serve as hubs of several humanitarian activities powered by local volunteers. Mandirs in the US and UK host an annual walkathon to raise funds for local charities such as hospitals or schools. Many centers also host annual health fairs where needy members of the community can undergo health screenings and consultations. During weekend assemblies, physicians are periodically invited to speak on various aspects of preventative medicine and to raise awareness on common conditions. In times of disaster, centers closest to the affected area become hubs for relief activity ranging from providing meals to reconstructing communities.\n\nThe founder of BAPS, Shastriji Maharaj, built its first and \"namesake\" mandir in Bochasan, Gujarat.\n\nThe organization's second mandir was built in Sarangpur, which also hosts a seminary for BAPS sadhus.\n\nThe mandir in Gondal was constructed around the Akshar Deri, the cremation memorial of Gunatitanand Swami, who is revered as a manifestation of Aksharbrahman.\n\nShastriji Maharaj constructed his last mandir on the banks of the River Ghela in Gadhada, where Swaminarayan resided for the majority of his adult life.\n\nYogiji Maharaj constructed the mandir in the Shahibaug section of Ahmedabad, which remains the site of the international headquarters of the organization.\n\nUnder the leadership of Pramukh Swami Maharaj, over 25 additional shikharbaddha mandirs have been erected across Gujarat and other regions of India and abroad.\n\nAs a consequence of the Indian emigration patterns, mandirs have been erected in Africa, Europe, North America, and the Asia-Pacific region. The BAPS mandir in Neasden, London was the first traditional Hindu mandir built in Europe. The organization's sixth and largest North American shikharbaddha mandir was inaugurated in 2014 in the New Jersey suburb of Robbinsville Township, and is the world's largest Hindu temple.\n\nBAPS has constructed three large temple complexes dedicated to Swaminarayan called Akshardham, which in addition to a large stone-carved mandir has exhibitions that explain Hindu traditions and Swaminarayan history and values. Akshardham temple complexes have been built in India in New Delhi and Gandhinagar, Gujarat, and one in the United States at Robbinsville Township in Central New Jersey.\n\nBAPS will construct the first Hindu stone temple in the Middle East, in Abu Dhabi, the Capital city of United Arab Emirates. The temple will be constructed on 55,000 square metres of land. The temple will be hand-carved by Indian temple artisans and assembled in the UAE. It is projected to completed by 2020, and open to people of all religious backgrounds. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi officially launched the foundation stone-laying ceremony. The UAE is home to over three million people of Indian origin.\n\nThe History of BAPS as an organization begins with Shastriji Maharaj's desire to propagate the mode of worship as interpreted from Swaminarayan's teachings. During Swaminarayan's own time, his group's spread had been curbed by opposition from Vaishnava sampradayas and others hostile to Swaminarayan's bhakti teachings. Due to the hostility of those who found Swaminarayan's growing popularity and teachings unacceptable, sadhus and devotees during Swaminarayan's time tempered some of the public presentation of his doctrine, despite their own convictions, to mitigate violence towards their newly formed devotional community. The original doctrine taught by Swaminarayan continued to be conveyed in less public fora, but with the passage of time, Shastriji Maharaj sought to publicly reveal this doctrine, which asserted that Swaminarayan and his choicest devotee, Gunatitanand Swami, were ontologically, Purushottam and Akshar, respectively. However, when Shastriji Maharaj began openly discoursing about this doctrine, hereafter the Akshar-Purushottam doctrine, he was met with opposition from some quarters within the Vartal diocese. As the opposition against him grew violent, Shastriji Maharaj was left with no choice but to leave Vartal to escape violent physical assaults. Thus, Williams notes, the very basis for separation from the Vartal diocese and raison d’être for the formation of BAPS was this doctrinal issue.\n\nSwaminarayan is viewed as God (Purushottama) by BAPS followers. Thus, his writings and discourses form the foundation for BAPS’ theological tenets. Regarding Swaminarayan's philosophy, Akshar plays a fundamental role in the overall scheme of ultimate liberation. To that end, Swaminarayan indicated that those who wish to offer pure devotion to God (Purushottama) and are desirous of Moksha should imbibe the qualities of the Gunatit Guru [Satsangijivanam Volume IV/72:1,2]. As Akshar, embodied as the Gunatit Guru, epitomizes ideal devotion transcending Maya. Swaminarayan's philosophical stand that liberation is unattainable unless one \"identifies oneself with Akshar (a synonym of Brahman) and offers the highest devotion to Purushottam\" is also found in various Hindu scriptures [Mundaka Upanishad 3/2:9, Shrimad Bhagavatam I/1:1, Bhagvad Gita XVIII/54]. It follows that the doctrine that Shastriji Maharaj propagated, as Kim observes, \"did not result in the rejection of any scriptures; instead, it was the beginning of a distinctive theology which added a single but powerful qualification, [that Akshar plays] in the form of the living guru\".\n\nBAPS devotees also believe that Swaminarayan propagated the same doctrine through the mandirs he built. From 1822 to 1828, Swaminarayan constructed a total of six shikharbaddha mandirs in Gujarat; in each he installed the murtis of a principal deity coupled with their ideal devotee in the central shrine: Nar-Narayan-Dev in Ahmedabad (1822) and Bhuj (1823), Lakshmi-Narayan-Dev in Vartal (1824), Madan-Mohan-Dev in Dholera (1826), Radha-Raman-Dev in Junagadh (1828), and Gopi-Nathji in Gadhada (1828).\n\nAs Kim notes, \"For BAPS devotees, the dual murtis in the original Swaminarayan temples imply that Swaminarayan did install a murti of himself alongside the murti of his ideal bhakta or Guru\". Thus, Shastriji Maharaj, was simply extending that idea by enshrining the murti of Swaminarayan along with Gunatitanand Swami, his ideal devotee, in the central sanctum. However, many within the Vartal and Ahmedabad dioceses did not subscribe to this view, and this became one of the main points of disagreement that led to the schism.\n\nShastriji Maharaj explained that as per Swaminarayan's teachings, God desired to remain on earth through a succession of enlightened gurus. In many of his discourses in the Vachanamrut (Gadhada I-71, Gadhada III-26 and Vadtal 5) Swaminarayan explains that there forever exists a Gunatit Guru (perfect devotee) through whom Swaminarayan manifests on earth for the ultimate redemption of jivas.\n\nShastriji Maharaj noted that Swaminarayan had \"expressly designated\" the Gunatit Guru to spiritually guide the satsang (spiritual fellowship) while instructing his nephews to help manage the administration of the fellowship within their respective dioceses.\n\nNumerous historical accounts and texts written during Swaminarayan and Gunatitanand Swami's time period identify Gunatitanand Swami as the embodiment of Akshar. Followers of BAPS believe that the Ekantik dharma that Swaminarayan desired to establish is embodied and propagated by the Ekantik Satpurush – the Gunatit Guru. The first such guru in the lineage was Gunatitanand Swami. Shastriji Maharaj had understood from his own guru, Bhagatji Maharaj, that Gunatitanand Swami was the first Gunatit Guru in the lineage.\n\nHistorically, each Gunatit Guru in the lineage has continued to reveal his successor; Gunatitanand Swami revealed Pragji Bhakta (Bhagatji Maharaj), who in turn revealed Shastriji Maharaj, who pointed to Yogiji Maharaj, who revealed Pramukh Swami Maharaj, the Guru, thus continuing the lineage of Akshar. Most recently, Pramukh Swami Maharaj revealed Mahant Swami Maharaj as the next and current Guru in the lineage.\n\nBhagatji Maharaj, born Pragji Bhakta, was originally a householder disciple of Gopalanand Swami. He was instructed to seek the company of Gunatitanand Swami if he desired to attain the Gunatit state. As he associated with Gunatitanand Swami, he began spending more time in Junagadh and obeyed every command from his new guru. He wanted to renounce the world and become an ascetic but he was told not to. Bhagatji Maharaj over time came to believe that the doctrine of Akshar-Purushottam was the true doctrine propagated by Swaminarayan.\n\nHe was excommunicated from the Swaminarayan Sampraday for preaching about Akshar Purushottam Upsana. After Gunatitanand Swami’s passing in 1867, Bhagatji Maharaj continue to spread the knowledge of his guru’s identity as Akshar and Swaminarayan's identity as Purushottam. He was later reinstated and continued to teach as a householder. Though he had a checkered history with the saints and authorities at Vadtal, the task to organize a separate religious community was left to his successor. He himself was not recognized as Akshar by the masses during his lifetime but his inclusion is significant in the BAPS lineage because he was a Sat-Shudra (lower caste) from a family of a tailor caste and was not a sadhu.\n\nIn 1883, Shastriji Maharaj met Bhagatji Maharaj in Surat. Recognizing Bhagatji Maharaj's spiritual caliber, Shastriji Maharaj began spending increasing amounts of time listening to Bhagatji Maharaj's discourses, and soon, he accepted Bhagatji Maharaj as his guru. Over time, Shastriji Maharaj also became a strong proponent of the Akshar-Purushottam Upasana. After Bhagatji Maharaj died on 7 November 1897, Shastriji Maharaj became the primary proponent of the doctrine of Akshar-Purushottam. He believed that the construction of mandirs guided by this doctrine was urgently needed to facilitate followers’ practice of this understanding of Swaminarayan devotion and identified Gunatitanand Swami and Bhagatji Maharaj as the first and second embodiments of Akshar.\n\nIn this regard, Shastriji Maharaj persuaded Acharya Kunjvihariprasadji to consecrate the murtis of Akshar (Gunatitanand Swami) and Purushottam (Swaminarayan) in the Vadhwan mandir. Shastriji Maharaj's identification of Gunatitanand Swami as the personal form of Akshar was already a paradigm shift for some that led to \"opposition and hostility\" from many within the Vadtal diocese. Moreover, the installation of Gunatitanand Swami's murti next to Swaminarayan in the Vadhwan Mandir, led to further hostility and opposition from many sadhus of the Vadtal temple who were determined to prevent the murti of Gunatitanand Swami from being placed [along with Swaminarayan in the central shrine]. Jaga Bhakta, a respected devotee of Gunatitanand Swami said: \"It is the wish of Maharaj that the upasana (worship) of Akshar Purushottam should be established. Therefore, you must take up this work. It shall be your shortcoming if you don't take a pledge to accomplish this task, and it shall be my shortcoming if I default in fulfilling it.\"\n\nFollowing this, several attempts to murder him were made, but Shastriji Maharaj maintained his reluctance to leave Vadtal. Since Bhagatji Maharaj promised him, \"Even if they cut you into pieces, I will stitch you together, but you must never leave the doors of Vartal,” Shastriji Maharaj refused to leave. Seeing the unrelenting threat to Shastriji Maharaj's life, Krishnaji Ada, a respected devotee of the Swaminarayan Sampraday, advised him to leave for his own safety, as per the teachings of Swaminarayan in the Shikshapatri Verse 153–154. Acknowledging the commands of Swaminarayan in the Shikshapatri, and interpreting Krishnaji Ada's words to be of Bhagatji Maharaj, Shastriji Maharaj decided to leave the Vadtal temple to preach in the surrounding regions until the temple became safe again.\n\nOn 12 November 1905, Shastriji Maharaj left the Vadtal temple with five sadhus and the support of about 150 devotees. However, he did not want to believe that he was separating from Vadtal as he initially instructed his followers to continue their financial contributions to and participation in the temples of the Vartal diocese. After several court proceedings, lawsuits and hearings, a legal conclusion was reached. A district judge citing an affidavit from Shastriji Maharaj which stated that he succeeded from the Swaminarayan Sampraday ruled that BAPS sadhus did not have the right to stay or preach in the Swaminarayan Sampraday and he ordered Shastriji to stop sending his sadhus to their temples. See Shastriji Maharaj: Formation of BAPS\n\nOn 5 June 1907 he consecrated the murtis of Swaminarayan and Gunatitanand Swami in the central shrine of a shikharbaddha mandir he was constructing in the village of Bochasan in the Kheda District of Gujarat. This event was later seen to mark the formal establishment of the Bochasanwasi Akshar-Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha, which was later abbreviated as BAPS. The Gujarati word Bochasanwasi implies hailing from Bochasan, since the organization's first Mandir was in this village.\n\nShastriji Maharaj continued to consolidate and spread the Akshar-Purushottam teachings of the nascent BAPS and spent the majority of 1908–15 discoursing throughout Gujarat, while continuing construction work of mandirs in Bochasan and Sarangpur. As recognition of Shastriji Maharaj's teachings continued to spread throughout Gujarat, he acquired a loyal and growing group of devotees, admirers, and supporters, many of whom were formerly associated with the Vartal or Ahmedabad diocese of the Swaminarayan Sampradaya. Over the next four decades, Shastriji Maharaj completed four more shikharabaddha mandirs in Gujarat (Sarangpur - 1916, Gondal - 1934, Atladra - 1945, and Gadadha - 1951).\n\nKim notes that these temples, in essence, represented the fundamental doctrine that Shastriji Maharaj wished to propagate based on Swaminarayan's teachings: \"the ultimate reality [Purushottam] and the means, in the form of the Guru, which [enables a] devotee to offer eternal devotion to the ultimate reality\". Thus, this historical period marked a \"focused emphasis\" on building shikharabaddha mandirs as a means of conveying Swaminarayan doctrine. Shashtriji Maharaj was accepted as the third successor, or Akshar by BAPS devotees.\n\nOn 12 August 1910 Shastriji Maharaj met his eventual successor, Yogiji Maharaj, at the house of Jadavji in Bochasan. Yogiji Maharaj was a resident sadhu at Junagadh Mandir (Saurãshtra), where Gunatitanand Swami had served as mahant. Yogiji Maharaj regarded Gunatitanand Swami as Akshar and also served the murti of Shri Harikrishna Maharaj which had previously been worshipped by Gunatitanand Swami. As he already believed in the doctrine being preached by Shastriji Maharaj, Yogiji Maharaj left Junagadh on 9 July 1911 with six sadhus to join Shastriji Maharaj's mission.\n\nOn 7 November 1939, 17-year-old Shantilal Patel(who would become Pramukh Swami Maharaj) left his home and was initiated by Shastriji Maharaj into the parshad order, as Shanti Bhagat, on 22 November 1939, and into the sadhu order, as Sadhu Narayanswarupdas, on 10 January 1940. Initially, he studied Sanskrit and Hindu scriptures and served as Shastriji Maharaj's personal secretary. In 1946, he was appointed administrative head (\"Kothari\") of the Sarangpur mandir.\n\nIn the early part of 1950, Shastriji Maharaj wrote several letters to 28-year-old Shastri Narayanswarupdas expressing a wish to appoint him as the administrative president of the organization. Initially, Shastri Narayanswarupdas was reluctant to accept the position, citing his young age and lack of experience and suggesting that an elderly, experienced sadhu should take the responsibility. However, Shastriji Maharaj insisted over several months, until, seeing the wish and insistence of his guru, Shastri Narayanswarupdas accepted the responsibility. On 21 May 1950 at Ambli-Vali Pol in Amdavad, Shastriji Maharaj appointed Shastri Narayanswarupdas as the administrative president (\"Pramukh\") of BAPS. He instructed Shastri Narayanswarupdas, who now began to be referred to as Pramukh Swami, to ennoble Satsang under the guidance of Yogiji Maharaj.\n\nIn the last few years of his life, Shastriji Maharaj took steps to preserve the growth and future of BAPS by registering BAPS as a charitable trust in 1947 under India's new legal code.\n\nAfter the death of Shastriji Maharaj on 10 May 1951, Yogiji Maharaj became the spiritual leader, or Guru, of the organization while Pramukh Swami continued to oversee administrative matters as president of the organization. Yogiji Maharaj carried Shastriji Maharaj's mission of fostering the Akshar-Purushottam doctrine by building temples, touring villages, preaching overseas and initiating weekly local religious assemblies for children, youths and elders. In his 20 years as guru, from 1951 to 1971, he visited over 4,000 cities, towns and villages, consecrated over 60 mandirs and wrote over 545,000 letters to devotees.\n\nThis period of BAPS history saw an important expansion in youth activities. Yogiji Maharaj believed that in a time of profound and rapid social ferment, there was an imminent need to save the young from ‘degeneration of moral, cultural and religious values’. To fill a void in spiritual activities for youths, Yogiji Maharaj started a regular Sunday gathering (Yuvak Mandal) of young men in Bombay in 1952. Brear notes, \"His flair, dynamism and concern led within ten years to the establishment of many yuvak mandals of dedicated young men in Gujarat and East Africa\".\nIn addition to providing religious and spiritual guidance, Yogiji Maharaj encouraged youths to work hard and excel in their studies. Towards realizing such ideals, he would often remind them to stay away from worldly temptations. A number of youths decided to take monastic vows. On 11 May 1961 during the Gadhada Kalash Mahotsav, he initiated 51 college-educated youths into the monastic order as sadhus. Mahant Swami initiated as Sadhu Keshavjivandas was one of the initiates.\n\nSatsang in Africa had started during Shastriji Maharaj's lifetime, as many devotees had migrated to Africa for economic reasons. One of Shastriji Maharaj's senior sadhus, Nirgundas Swami, engaged in lengthy correspondence with these devotees, answering their questions and inspiring them to start satsang assemblies in Africa. Eventually, in 1928, Harman Patel took the murtis of Akshar-Purushottam Maharaj to East Africa and started a small center. Soon, the East Africa Satsang Mandal was established under the leadership of Harman Patel and Magan Patel.\n\nIn 1955, Yogiji Maharaj embarked on his first foreign tour to East Africa. The prime reason for the visit was to consecrate Africa's first Akshar-Purushottam temple in Mombasa. The temple was inaugurated on 25 April 1955. He also travelled to Nairobi, Nakuru, Kisumu, Tororo, Jinja, Kampala, Mwanza and Dar es salaam. His travels inspired the local devotees to begin temple construction projects. \nDue to the visit, in a span of five years, the devotees in Uganda completed the construction of temples in Tororo, Jinja and Kampala and asked Yogiji Maharaj to revisit Uganda to install the murtis of Akshar-Purushottam Maharaj. The rapid temple constructions in Africa were helped by the presence of early immigrants, mainly Leva Patels, who came to work as masons, and were particularly skilled in temple building.\n\nAs a result, Yogiji Maharaj made a second visit to East Africa in 1960 and consecrated hari mandirs in Kampala, Jinja and Tororo in Uganda. \nDespite his failing health, Yogiji Maharaj at the age of 78 undertook a third overseas tour of London and East Africa in 1970. Prior to his visit, the devotees had purchased the premises of the Indian Christian Union at Ngara, Kenya in 1966 and remodeled it to resemble a three-spired temple. Yogiji Maharaj inaugurated the temple in Ngara, a suburb of Nairobi in 1970.\n\nIn 1950, disciples Mahendra Patel and Purushottam Patel held small personal services at their homes in England. Mahendra Patel, a barrister by vocation, writes, \"I landed in London in 1950 for further studies. Purushottambhai Patel...was residing in the county of Kent. His address was given to me by Yogiji Maharaj\". Beginning 1953, D. D. Meghani held assemblies in his office that brought together several followers in an organized setting. \nIn 1958, leading devotees including Navin Swaminarayan, Praful Patel and Chatranjan Patel from India and East Africa began arriving to the UK. They started weekly assemblies at Seymour Place every Saturday evening at a devotee's house. \nIn 1959, a formal constitution was drafted and the group registered as the \"Swaminarayan Hindu Mission, London Fellowship Centre\". D.D. Megani served as Chairman, Mahendra Patel as Vice-Chairman and Praful Patel the secretary.\nOn Sunday, 14 June 1970, the first BAPS temple in England was opened at Islington by Yogiji Maharaj. In this same year he established the Shree Swaminarayan Mission as a formal organization.\n\nYogiji Maharaj was unable to travel to the United States during his consecutive foreign tours. Nonetheless, he asked Dr. K.C. Patel, a chemistry instructor at Brooklyn College, to begin satsang assemblies in the United States. He gave Dr. Patel the names of twenty-eight satsangi students to help conduct [satsang] assemblies.\n\nIn 1970, Yogiji Maharaj accepted the request of these students and sent four sadhus to visit the U.S. The tour motivated followers to start satsang sabhas in their own homes every Sunday around the country. Soon, K.C. Patel established a non-profit organization known as BSS under US law. Thus, a fledgling Satsang Mandal formed in the United States before the death of Yogiji Maharaj in 1971.\n\nAfter Yogiji Maharaj’s death, Pramukh Swami Maharaj became both the spiritual and administrative head of BAPS in 1971. He was the fifth spiritual Guru of the BAPS organization. Under his leadership, BAPS has grown into a global Hindu organization and has witnessed expansion in several areas. His work has been built on the foundations laid by his gurus – Shastriji Maharaj and Yogiji Maharaj.\n\nImmediately upon taking helm, Pramukh Swami Maharaj ventured on a hectic spiritual tour in the first decade of his role as the new Spiritual Guru. Despite health conditions—cataract operation in 1980—he continued to make extensive tours to more than 4000 villages and towns, visiting over 67,000 homes and performing image installation ceremonies in 77 temples in this first decade. He also embarked on a series of overseas tours beginning in 1974 as the Guru. Subsequent tours were made in 1977, 1979, and 1980.\n\nOverall, he embarked on a total of 27 international spiritual tours between 1974 and 2007. His travels were motivated by his desire to reach out to devotees for their spiritual uplift and to spread the teachings of Swaminarayan.\n\nThe personal outreach (vicharan) of the earlier era (1971–81) by Pramukh Swami Maharaj through traveling to villages and towns, writing letters to devotees, and giving discourses contributed to sustaining a global BAPS community.\n\nThe Gujarati migration patterns in the early 1970s, globalization factors and economic dynamics between India and the West saw the organization transform into a transnational devotional movement. Organizational needs spanned from transmitting cultural identity through spiritual discourses to the newer much alienated generation in the new lands, temple upkeep and traveling to regional and local centers to disseminate spiritual knowledge. As a result, this era saw a significant rise in the number of sadhus initiated to maintain the organizational needs of the community – both in India and abroad. Furthermore, having access to a greater volunteer force and community enabled the organization to celebrate festivals on a massive scale which marked the arrival of a number of milestone anniversaries in the history of the organization, including the bicentenary of Swaminarayan, bicentenary of Gunatitanand Swami, and the centenary of Yogiji Maharaj. Some effects of the celebration included a maturation of organizational capacity, increased commitment and skill of volunteers, and tangentially, an increased interest in the monastic path.\n\nThe Swaminarayan bicentenary celebration, a once in a life-time event for Swaminarayan followers, was held in Amdavad in April 1981. On 7th March 1981, 207 youths were initiated into the monastic order. In 1985 the bicentenary birth of Gunatitanand Swami was celebrated. During this festival, 200 youths were initiated into the monastic order.\n\nThe organization held Cultural festivals of India in London in 1985 and New Jersey in 1991. The month-long Cultural Festival of India was held at Alexandra Palace in London in 1985. The same festival was shipped to US as a month-long Cultural Festival of India at Middlesex County College in Edison, New Jersey.\n\nMigrational patterns in the 70s led to a disproportionate number of Hindus in the diaspora. Culturally, a need arose to celebrate special festivals (Cultural Festival of India) to reach out to youths in the diaspora to foster understanding and appreciation of their mother culture in a context accessible to them. To engage the youths, festival grounds housed temporary exhibitions ranging from interactive media, dioramas, panoramic scenes and even 3D-exhibits.\n\nBy the end of the era, owing to the success of these festivals and the cultural impact it had on the youths, the organization saw a need to create a permanent exhibition in the Gandhinagar Akshardham Temple complex in 1991.\n\nIn 1992, a month-long festival was held to both celebrate Yogiji Maharaj's centenary and to inaugurate a permanent exhibition and temple called Swaminarayan Akshardham in Gandhinagar. The festival also saw 125 youths initiated into the monastic order bringing the total number of sadhus initiated to more than 700 in fulfillment to a prophecy made by Yogiji Maharaj.\n\n\nIn the third leg of the era, the organization saw an unprecedented level of mandir construction activities taking place in order to accommodate the rapid rise of adherents across the global Indian diaspora. Initially, beginning with the inauguration of Swaminarayan Akshardham in Gandhinagar in 1992. A number of Shikharbaddha mandirs (large traditional stone mandirs) were inaugurated in major cities; Neasden (1995), Nairobi (1999), New Delhi (2004), Swaminarayan Akshardham (2005), Houston (2004), Chicago (2004), Toronto (2007), Atlanta (2007) and Los Angeles (2012).\n\nToday, BAPS continues to flourish further with the guidance and inspiration from Mahant Swami Maharaj. He takes forward the legacy of Gunatit Satpurush by continuous vicharan (Travelling across the World) and helping spiritual seekers (Devotees) to attain the higher state of spirituality. He further nurtures the work of Pramukh Swami Maharaj by creating wonderful Temples, initiate Sadhus (monk) by giving diksha to aspiring devotees and promote the creation & sustenance of shastras - or spiritual scripts.\n\nHe continues to travel across the world by visiting BAPS temples in India, Africa, Europe, America and Asia-Pacific countries. During his vicharan, he guide the spiritual seekers by blessing them in the form of his Darshan (seeing him) and Katha (his discourse). During his morning discourse after his pooja and in the evening assemblies; he mainly speaks on how we can attain God and peace by being Egoless (Nirmani), seeing divinity in all (Divyabhav), not seeing, talking or adapting any negative nature or behaviour of people around us (No Abhav-Avgun) and keeping unity amongst us (Samp).\n\nThe philosophy of BAPS is centered on the doctrine of Akshar Purshottam Upasana, in which followers worship Swaminarayan as God, or Purshottam, and his choicest devotee Gunatitanand Swami, as Akshar. The concept of Akshar has been interpreted differently by various Swaminarayan denominations, and one major reason for the separation of BAPS from the Vartal diocese has been attributed to doctrinal differences in the interpretation of the concept of Akshar. Both the Vadtal and Ahmedabad dioceses of the Swaminaryan sampradaya believe Akshar to be the divine abode of the supreme entity Purushottam. The BAPS denomination concurs that Akshar is the divine abode of Purushottam, but they further understand Akshar as \"an eternally existing spiritual reality having two forms, the impersonal and the personal\" Followers of BAPS identify various scriptures and documented statements of Swaminarayan as supporting this understanding of Akshar within the Akshar Purushottam Upasana. BAPS teaches that the entity of Akshar remains on earth through a lineage of \"perfect devotees\", the gurus or spiritual teachers of the organization, who provide \"authentication of office through Gunatitanand Swami and back to Swaminarayan himself.\" Followers hold Mahant Swami Maharaj as the personified form of Akshar and the spiritual leader of BAPS.\n\nThe Swaminarayan ontology comprises five eternal entities: Jiva, Ishwar, Maya, Brahman, and Parabrahman. The entities are separate and distinct from one another and structured within a hierarchy. Encompassing the entities of both Swaminarayan and his ideal devotee, this hierarchy emphasizes the relationship between Akshar and Purshottam.\n\n\"Parabrahma\"- At the top is Parabrahman. Parabrahman is the highest reality, God. He is understood as Sarva karta (all-doer), Sarvopari (transcendent), Sakar (having a form), and Pragat (present on the earth). He is also one and unparalleled, the reservoir for all forms of bliss and eternally divine. Parabrahman is also referred to as Purshottam and Paramatma, both of which reflect his supreme existential state. Furthermore, Parabrahman is the only unconditioned entity upon which the other four entities are contingent.\n\n\"Brahma\"- Subservient to Parabrahman is Brahman, also known as Akshar, which exists simultaneously in four states. The first state is in the form of the impersonal Chidakash, the divine, all-pervading substratum of the cosmos. Another form of Akshar is the divine abode of Parabrahman, known as Akshardham. Muktas, or liberated jivas (souls), also dwell here in unfathomable bliss and luster which is beyond the scope of human imagination. The other two states of Akshar are personal, which manifest as the ideal servant of Purshottam, both within his divine abode of Akshardham and simultaneously on earth as the God-realized saint.\n\n\"Maya\"- Below Brahman is maya. Maya has three main qualities of sattva, rajas, and tamas (These influences encompass the spectrum of maya, ranging from goodness, passions, and darkness, respectively) that it utilizes to create the physical world. Maya entangles Ishwar and Jiva and causes them to form an attachment to both their physical bodies and the material world. This attachment denies them liberation, and only through contact with the personal form of Brahman can they overcome the illusion created by maya and attain liberation.\n\n\"Ishwar\"- Ishwars are conscious spiritual beings that are responsible for the creation, sustenance, and destruction of the cosmos, at the behest of Parabrahman. They have greater power than the jivas and are infinite in number. They are the deities that are above jiva, but are also subject to maya.\n\n\"Jiva\"- The jiva is the eternal soul which has not been liberated, as it is under the influence of maya, and can be freed only through association with Aksharbrahma.\n\nIn 1907, Shastriji Maharaj consecrated the images of Akshar and Purshottam in a temple's central shrine in the village of Bochasan as sacred, marking the formation of the BAPS fellowship as a formally distinct organization. However, the fundamental beliefs of the sampraday date back to the time of Swaminarayan. One revelation of Gunatitanand Swami as Akshar occurred in 1810 at the grand yagna of Dhaban, during which Swaminarayan initiated Gunatitanand Swami as a sadhu. On this occasion, Swaminarayan publicly confirmed that Gunatitanand Swami was the incarnation of Akshar, declaring, \"Today, I am extremely happy to initiate Mulji Sharma. He is my divine abode – Akshardham, which is infinite and endless.\" The first Acharya of the Vartal diocese, Raghuvirji Maharaj, recorded this declaration in his composition, the Harililakalpataru (7.17.49-50). Under Shastriji Maharaj, considered the manifest form of Akshar at the time, the fellowship continued the traditions of the Akshar Purshottam Upasana. He focused on the revelations of Gunatitanand Swami as Swaminaryan's divine abode and choicest devotee.\n\nThe Akshar Purushottam Upasana refers to two separate entities within the Swaminarayan ontology. These two entities are worshipped in conjunction by followers of BAPS in accordance with the instructions laid down in the Vachanamrut. According to BAPS, Swaminarayan refers to Akshar in the \"Vachanamrut\", with numerous appellations such as Sant, Satpurush, Bhakta and Sadhu, as having an august status that makes it an entity worth worshipping alongside God. For example, in \"Vachanamrut Gadhada\" I-37, Swaminarayan states:\n\"In fact, the darshan of such a true Bhakta of God is equivalent to the darshan of God Himself\" \nMoreover, in Vachanamrut Vartal 5, Swaminarayan states:\nJust as one performs the mãnsi puja of God, if one also performs the mãnsi puja of the ideal Bhakta along with God, by offering him the prasãd of God; and just as one prepares a thãl for God, similarly, if one also prepares a thãl for God's ideal Bhakta and serves it to him; and just as one donates five rupees to God, similarly, if one also donates money to the great Sant – then by performing with extreme affection such similar service of God and the Sant who possesses the highest qualities…he will become a devotee of the highest calibre in this very life. \nThus, in all BAPS mandirs the image of Akshar is placed in the central shrine and worshipped alongside the image of Purushottam.\nFurthermore, BAPS believes that by understanding the greatness of God's choicest devotee, coupled with devotion and service to him and God, followers are able to grow spiritually. This practice is mentioned by Swaminarayan in Vachanamrut Vartal 5:\n\"by performing with extreme affection such similar service of God and the Sant who possesses the highest qualities, even if he is a devotee of the lowest type and was destined to become a devotee of the highest type after two lives, or after four lives, or after ten lives, or after 100 lives, he will become a devotee of the highest caliber in this very life. Such are the fruits of the similar service of God and God's Bhakta.\"\n\nAs per the Akshar Purushottam Upasana, each jiva attains liberation and true realization through the manifest form of Akshar. Jivas who perform devotion to this personal form of Brahman can, despite remaining ontologically different, attain a similar spiritual standing as Brahman and then go to Akshardham. It is only through the performance of devotion to Brahman that Parabrahman can be both realized and attained.\n\nAccording to the Akshar Purushottam Upasana, the personal form of Akshar is forever present on the earth through a lineage of spiritual leaders, or gurus. It is through these gurus that Swaminarayan is also held to forever remain present on the earth. These gurus are also essential in illuminating the path that needs to be taken by the jivas that earnestly desire to be liberated from the cycle of rebirth. This lineage begins with Gunatitanand Swami (1785–1867), a sadhu who lived conterminously with Swaminarayan. Members of BAPS point to numerous historical anecdotes and scriptural references, particularly from the central Swaminarayan text known as the \"Vachanamrut\", as veritable evidence that Gunatitanand Swami was the manifest form of Akshar. Swaminarayan refers to this concept specifically in the Vachnamrut chapters of Gadhada I-21, Gadhada I-71, Gadhada III-26, Vadtal 5. Following Gunatitanand Swami, the lineage continued on through Bhagatji Maharaj (1829–1897), Shastriji Maharaj (1865–1951), Yogiji Maharaj (1892–1971), and Pramukh Swami Maharaj (1921–2016). Today Mahant Swami Maharaj is said to be the manifest form of Akshar.\n\nAccording to BAPS doctrines, followers aim to attain a spiritual state similar to Brahman which is necessary for ultimate liberation. The practices of BAPS Swaminarayans are an idealistic \"portrait of Hinduism.\" To become an ideal Hindu, followers must identify with Brahman, separate from the material body, and offer devotion to god It is understood that through association with Akshar, in the form of the God-realized guru, one is able to achieve this spiritual state. Followers live according to the spiritual guidance of the guru who is able to elevate the jiva to the state of Brahman. Thus devotees aim to follow the spiritual guidance of the manifest form of Akshar embedding the principles of dharma (righteousness), gnana (knowledge), vairagya (detachment from material pleasures) and bhakti (devotion unto God) in to their lives.\nThe basic practices of the Swaminarayan sect are based on these four principles. Followers receive jnana through regularly listening to spiritual discourses and reading scriptures in an effort to gain knowledge of God and one's true self. Dharma encompasses righteous conduct as prescribed by the scriptures. The ideals of dharma range from practicing non-violence to avoiding meat, onions, garlic, and other items in their diet. Lord Swaminarayan has outlined the dharma of his devotees in the scripture the Shikshapatri. He has included practical aspects of living life such as not committing adultery to respecting elders, gurus, and those of authority. Devotees develop vairagya in order to spiritually elevate their jivas to a Brahmic state. This entails practices such as fasting every eleventh day of each half of each lunar month and avoiding worldly pleasures by strongly attaching themselves to God. The fourth pillar, bhakti, or devotion is at the heart of the BAPS faith community. Common practices of devotion include daily prayers, offering prepared dishes (thal) to the image of God, mental worship of God and his ideal devotee, and singing religious hymns. Spiritual service, or seva, is a form of devotion where devotees serve selflessly \"while keeping only the Lord in mind.\"\n\nFollowers participate in various socio-spiritual activities with the objective to earn the grace of the guru and thus attain association with God through voluntary service. These numerous activities stem directly from the ideals taught by Swaminarayan, to find spiritual devotion in the service of others. By serving and volunteering in communities to please the guru, devotees are considered to be serving the guru. This relationship is the driving force for the spiritual actions of devotees. The guru is Mahant Swami Maharaj, who is seen as embodiment of selfless devotion. Under the guidance of Mahant Swami Maharaj, followers observe the tenets of Swaminarayan through the above-mentioned practices, striving to please the guru and become close to God.\n\nWith total assets valued approximately at 2.23 lakh crore INR The BAPS funds various charity events. To prevent and alleviate bodily suffering and to foster good health and physical well-being, BAPS Charities engages in numerous health-focused activities. The organization operates 16 hospitals and clinics serving over 600,000 people annually, with its most recent hospitals opening in Ahmedabad in 2012 and in Vadodara in 2013. Additionally, BAPS Charities organizes health fairs run by volunteer medical professionals where visitors can undergo screening tests, increase health awareness, participate in consultations, and receive treatment. Supporting the goals of Michelle Obama's \"Let's Move\" campaign which is working to end childhood obesity, BAPS Charities recently launched a health awareness initiative in the United States focused on educating parents and children on benefits of a vegetarian diet. To support biomedical research, the Toronto chapter of BAPS Charities donated $100,000 raised from walk-a-thons for Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children's Research and Learning Tower Campaign. In India, the organization has carried out anti-addiction campaigns led by several thousand children who spent their summer vacations traveling through cities and villages persuading people to give up their addictions with personal appeals and presentations on the dangers of addictive behaviors.\n\nWith a goal of improving educational opportunities and outcomes for younger generations, BAPS Charities funds scholarships, operates 10 schools and 8 colleges in addition to supporting other schools and running hostels. Through volunteer-led classes, the organization is working towards achieving 100 percent literacy in villages in India. In Africa, BAPS Charities has been active in providing children in need with school uniforms, school supplies, and food and in addition to helping improve school facilities. In North America, BAPS Charities also organizes annual seminars for professional development where workshops help youth develop interpersonal skills, public speaking, management skills.\n\nBAPS Charities manages several programs designed to protect and improve the environment. Volunteers across the world have raised ecological awareness and promoted conservation by employing energy-efficient technologies and organizing large-scale tree planting campaigns and recycling programs. In India, the organization also leads campaigns to improve water supply and conservation and arranges camps to teach better animal husbandry. In Gujarat, BAPS along with other religious sects, professional associations, and civil rights groups expressed support for the Sardar Sarovar Dam project in the 1990s, citing its prospect of generating hydropower, irrigation, potable water, and flood management. Although some groups criticized the project for its effect of displacing area residents, BAPS sponsored initiatives to relocate and aid the affected communities.\n\nRelieving human suffering in times of humanitarian emergencies remains an important component of BAPS Charities’ work. Within hours after the 2001 Gujarat earthquake, BAPS volunteers began providing victims with daily hot meals, clean water, and clothing and assisted with debris removal and search and rescue missions; the organization also adopted more than 10 villages in which they rebuilt the entire community, including all infrastructure and thousands of earthquake-resistant homes. With the help of donations from volunteers in India and abroad, the organization helped rebuild the area's communities by constructing schools, hospitals, and other buildings. After Hurricane Katrina struck the United States Gulf Coast region, BAPS Charities volunteer teams supplied hot food, water, emergency supplies, and relocation aid for victims. The organization partnered with UNICEF to provide medicine, clean water, and temporary housing for children affected by the 2010 Haiti earthquake.\n\nAlong the continuum of humanitarian activities, BAPS Charities also organizes initiatives with the goal of effecting positive social change and promoting a stronger sense of community. The organization recently donated $250,000 to the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York City to educate future generations about the importance of ahimsa, or non-violence, and the consequences of hatred. In India, BAPS Charities has organized numerous activities to help promote gender equality and improve the lives of women. Programs include campaigns against marriage dowries and domestic violence and seminars offering vocational guidance and self-employment training. Caring for the elderly and disabled is also a core value promoted by the organization. In the United Kingdom, BAPS Charities has an outreach program in place where children with chaperones regularly visit assisted living facilities and homes in their communities to spend time with the elderly residents.\n\nBAPS Swaminarayan Sanstha is a charitable Non-governmental organization. The organization is recognized as a non-governmental organization, that holds general consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25601121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25601121", "title": "Canadian Unitarians for Social Justice", "text": "Canadian Unitarians for Social Justice\n\nCanadian Unitarians for Social Justice (CUSJ), established in 1996, is a Canadian Unitarian Universalist social justice organization that is an associate member of the Canadian Unitarian Council. The organization publishes quarterly issues of JUSTnews and quarterly discussion papers each year.\n"}
{"id": "26809329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26809329", "title": "Christopher Neil-Smith", "text": "Christopher Neil-Smith\n\nChristopher Neil-Smith (1920–1995) was an Anglican minister who served as vicar of St Saviour's Hampstead and is best known for his practice of exorcism and his parapsychological interests.\n\nNeil-Smith is credited with performing more than three thousand exorcisms in Britain, starting in 1949. In 1972, the Bishop of London authorized him to exorcise demons according to his own judgement.\n\nNeil-Smith wrote \"Praying for Daylight: God Through Modern Eyes\", as well as \"The Exorcist and the Possessed\", in which he detailed his experiences with and beliefs about exorcism. In the latter, he claimed that evil should be treated as an actual force rather than an abstract idea.\n\nAppearing on radio and television programs, he became notable as an authority on the subject of exorcism when Peter Blatty's \"The Exorcist\" was released in 1970. According to biographer Trevor Beeson, the media coverage he gained \"emphasized the more dramatic elements in his ministry, and encouraged him to extravagances which he later regretted.\" Neil-Smith died at the age of 75. He was married, and had two sons.\n\nThe impact of Christopher Neil-Smith's ministry at St Saviour's Church was to bring issues most closely related to deliverance ministry to the fore, although there is some suggestion that not all his parishioners were entirely enamoured of a priest whose interests, by his own admission, led him for a time into spiritual excesses. A colleague of Neil-Smith, Jack Dover Wellman, vicar of Emmanuel Church, Hampstead was also an authority on the paranormal and upon exorcism, although with a greater emphasis upon Christian spiritual healing. Dover Wellman appears to have taken a gentler approach to his ministry than Neil-Smith sometimes managed, and maintained that to be psychic was a gift from God which needed to be developed in strict conformity with the teachings of Christ.\n\nFollowing Neil-Smith's retirement, his former vicarage in Eton Road, Hampstead was purchased by the psychiatrist R.D. Laing , who used it as his home and base for his practice for a number of years. According to biographers, Laing believed the house to be haunted, and performed an exorcism of his own there before taking up residence.\n\n"}
{"id": "186758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186758", "title": "Dispensationalism", "text": "Dispensationalism\n\nDispensationalism is a religious interpretive system for the Bible. It considers Biblical history as divided by God into dispensations, defined periods or ages to which God has allotted distinctive administrative principles. According to dispensationalist theology, each age of God's plan is thus administered in a certain way, and humanity is held responsible as a steward during that time. Dispensationalists' presuppositions start with the harmony of history as focusing on the glory of God and put God at its center - as opposed to a central focus on humanity and their need for salvation. A dispensational perspective can be seen in the writings of Jewish sects dating from around the time Christianity arose, for example in the Dead Sea Scrolls Community Rule (1QS). Early Christian fundamentalists embraced the system as a defense of the Bible against religious liberalism and modernism, and dispensationalism became the majority position within Christian fundamentalism. \n\nEach divine dispensation features a cycle:\n\nUltimately, dispensationalism demonstrates the progress of God's revelation to humanity and God's sovereignty through history -\na divine grand narrative.\n\nThe number of dispensations discerned by theologians within Biblical history vary typically from three to eight (See History below). The three- and four-dispensation schemes are often referred to as minimalist, as they include the commonly recognized divisions within Biblical history. The typical seven-dispensation scheme is as follows:\n\n\nNumerous purposes for this cycle of administrations have been suggested. God is seen to be testing humanity under varying conditions, while vindicating his ways with humanity in originally granting them free will. The dispensations reveal God's truth in a progressive manner, and are designed to maximize the glory that will accrue to God as he brings history to a climax with a Kingdom administered by Christ, thus vindicating his original plan of administering rule on earth through \"human\" means. The goal of the dispensations is summarized by Paul the Apostle in , \"He made known to us the mystery of His will, according to His kind intention which He purposed in Him with a view to an administration suitable to the fullness of the times, that is, the summing up of all things in Christ, things in the heavens and things on the earth\" (NASB).\n\nBelow is a table comparing the various dispensational schemes:\n\nOne important underlying theological concept for dispensationalism is progressive revelation. Some non-dispensationalists start with progressive revelation in the New Testament and refer this revelation back into the Old Testament, whereas dispensationalists begin with progressive revelation in the Old Testament and read forward in a historical sense. Therefore, there is an emphasis on a gradually developed unity as seen in the entirety of Scripture. Biblical covenants are associated with the dispensations.\nWhen these Biblical covenants are compared and contrasted, the result is a historical ordering of different dispensations. Dispensationalism emphasizes the original recipients to whom the different Biblical covenant promises were written. This has resulted in certain fundamental dispensational beliefs, such as a distinction between Israel and the Church.\n\nAnother important theological concept is an emphasis on the historical-grammatical (or literal) method of biblical interpretation. For example, Israel is said to have literally experienced the curses mentioned by the Old Testament, and dispensationalists believe that the Jews will one day literally receive the blessings mentioned by the Old Testament. Neither the historical-grammatical method nor the concept of progressive revelation is exclusive to dispensationalists. However, a dispensational distinctive is created when the historical-grammatical method is coupled with an emphasis on progressive revelation, along with the historical development of the covenants in Scripture.\n\nThe spectrum of teaching on Israel and the Church may be depicted as below:\n\nDispensationalists profess a definite distinction between Israel and the Church. For dispensationalists, Israel is an ethnic nation consisting of Hebrews (Israelites), beginning with Abraham and continuing in existence to the present. The Church, on the other hand, consists of all saved individuals in this present dispensation—i.e., from the \"birth of the Church\" in Acts until the time of the Rapture. According to progressive dispensationalism in contrast to the older forms, the distinction between Israel and the Church is not mutually exclusive, as there is a recognized overlap between the two. The overlap consists of Jewish Christians such as Peter and Paul, who were ethnically Jewish and also had faith in Jesus.\n\nDispensationalists believe that Israel as a nation will embrace Jesus as their messiah toward the end of the Great Tribulation, right before the Second Coming. \nClassical dispensationalists refer to the present-day Church as a \"parenthesis\" or temporary interlude in the progress of Israel's prophesied history. Progressive dispensationalism \"softens\" the Church/Israel distinction by seeing some Old Testament promises as expanded by the New Testament to include the Church. However, progressives never view this expansion as replacing promises to its original audience, Israel.\n\nClassic dispensationalists such as C. I. Scofield and Harry A. Ironside followed by Revised dispensationalists identify Pentecost (Acts 2) with the start of the Church as distinct from Israel; this may be referred to as the \"Acts 2\" position. Grace Movement Dispensationalists believe that the church started later in Acts and emphasize the beginning of the church with the ministry of Paul. Advocates of this \"mid-Acts\" position identify the start of the church variously from with the salvation of Saul in Acts 9 to the Holy Spirit's commissioning of Paul in Acts 13. The \"Acts 28\" position posits the beginning of the church in Acts chapter 28 where the Apostle Paul quotes Isaiah 6:9-10 concerning the blindness of Israel, announcing that the salvation of God is sent to the Gentile world (Acts 28:28).\n\nDispensationalists are premillennialists who affirm a future, literal 1,000-year reign of Jesus Christ which merges with and continues on to the eternal state in the \"new heavens and the new earth\", and they claim that the millennial kingdom will be theocratic in nature and not mainly soteriological, as it is considered by George Eldon Ladd and others with a non-dispensational form of premillennialism. Dispensationalism is known for its opinions respecting the nation of Israel during this millennial kingdom reign, in which Israel as a nation plays a major role and regains a king, a land, and an everlasting kingdom.\n\nThe vast majority of dispensationalists profess the pretribulation rapture, with small minorities professing to either a mid-tribulation or post-tribulation rapture.\n\nThe concept of the arranging of divisions of Biblical history dates back to Irenaeus during the second century. Other Christian writers since then have offered their own arrangements of history, such as Augustine of Hippo and Joachim of Fiore (1135–1202). Many Protestant and Calvinist writers also developed theological schemes and divisions of history, in particular after the Westminster Confession of Faith noted \"various dispensations\". Other concepts also predated dispensationalism as a system, such as premillennialism and the rapture.\n\nDispensationalism developed as a system from the teachings of John Nelson Darby (1800–82) who strongly influenced the Plymouth Brethren of the 1830s in Ireland and England. The original concept came when Darby considered the implications of Isaiah 32 for Israel. He saw that prophecy required a future fulfillment and realization of Israel's kingdom. The New Testament church was seen as a separate program not related to that kingdom. Thus arose a prophetic earthly kingdom program for Israel and a separate \"Mystery\" heavenly program for the church. In order to not conflate the two programs, the prophetic program had to be put on hold to allow for the church to come into existence. Then it is necessary for the church to be raptured away before prophecy can resume its earthly program for Israel. Some critics have claimed that there was no Christian teaching of a rapture before Darby began preaching about it in the 1830s, but recent research has discovered many sources in the preceding 250 years showing a development of the concept. In Darby's conception of dispensations, the Mosaic dispensation continues as a divine administration over earth up until the return of Christ. The church being a heavenly designated assembly does not have its own dispensation as per Scofield. Darby conceives of dispensations relating exclusively to the divine government of the earth and thus the church is not associated with any dispensations.\n\nDarby traveled extensively to continental Europe, New Zealand, Canada, and the United States in an attempt to make converts to the Brethren philosophy. While his Brethren ecclesiology failed to catch on in America, his eschatological doctrine became widely popular in the United States, especially among Baptists and Old School Presbyterians. American dispensationalism crossed over many denominational boundaries.\n\nRegarding any supposed connection to Edward Irving:\n\nJohn Nelson Darby is considered by some to be the father of dispensationalism, which was adopted, modified, and made popular in the United States by the Scofield Reference Bible. Charles Henry Mackintosh (1820–96) popularized Darby more than any other Brethren author.\n\nDispensationalism was introduced to North America by James Inglis (1813–72) through the monthly magazine \"Waymarks in the Wilderness\", published intermittently between 1854 and 1872. During 1866, Inglis organized the Believers' Meeting for Bible Study, which introduced dispensationalist ideas to a small but influential circle of American evangelicals. They were disturbed by the inroads of religious liberalism and saw premillennialism as an answer. Dispensationalism was introduced as a premillennial position, and it largely took over the fundamentalist movement, over a period of several decades. The American church denominations rejected Darby's ecclesiology but accepted his eschatology. Many of these churches were Presbyterian and Baptist, and they retained Darby's Calvinistic soteriology. \n\nAfter Inglis' death, James H. Brookes (1830–98), the pastor of Walnut Street Presbyterian Church in St. Louis, organized the Niagara Bible Conference (1876–97) to continue the dissemination of dispensationalist ideas. Dispensationalism was boosted after Dwight L. Moody (1837–1899) learned of dispensational theology from an unidentified member of the Brethren during 1872. Moody worked with Brookes and other dispensationalists and encouraged the spread of dispensationalism. The efforts of C.I. Scofield and his associates introduced dispensationalism to a wider audience in America by his Scofield Reference Bible. The publication of the Scofield Reference Bible during 1909 by the Oxford University Press for the first time displayed overtly dispensationalist notes on the pages of the Biblical text. The Scofield Bible became a popular Bible used by independent Evangelicals in the United States. Evangelist and Bible teacher Lewis Sperry Chafer (1871–1952) was influenced by Scofield; he founded the Dallas Theological Seminary during 1924, which has become the main institution of dispensationalism in America. The Baptist Bible Seminary in Clarks Summit, Pennsylvania became another dispensational school. Grace School of Theology opened in Houston, TX in 2003 as a dispensational school. Founded by graduates of Dallas Theological Seminary, it holds \"that the Bible must be interpreted as language is normally used, recognizing the importance of dispensational distinctions.\"\n\nOther prominent dispensationalists include Reuben Archer Torrey (1856–1928), James M. Gray (1851–1925), William J. Erdman (1833–1923), A. C. Dixon (1854–1925), A. J. Gordon (1836–95), and William Eugene Blackstone, author of the book \"Jesus is Coming\" (endorsed by Torrey and Erdman). These men were active evangelists who promoted a host of Bible conferences and other missionary and evangelistic efforts. They also gave the dispensationalist philosophy institutional permanence by assuming leadership of new independent Bible institutes, such as the Moody Bible Institute during 1886, the Bible Institute of Los Angeles (now Biola University) during 1908, and Philadelphia College of Bible (now Cairn University, formerly Philadelphia Biblical University) during 1913. The network of related institutes that soon developed became the nucleus for the spread of American dispensationalism.\n\nDispensationalism has become very popular with American evangelicalism, especially among nondenominational Bible churches, Baptists, Pentecostal, and Charismatic groups. Conversely, Protestant denominations that embrace covenant theology as a whole tend to reject dispensationalism. For example, the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.) (which subsequently merged with the United Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A. (PCUSA) in which Dispensationalism existed) termed it \"evil and subversive\" and regarded it as a heresy. The Churches of Christ underwent division during the 1930s as Robert Henry Boll (who taught a variant of the dispensational philosophy) and Foy E. Wallace (representing the amillennial opinion) disputed severely over eschatology.\n\nDispensationalism rejects the notion of supersessionism, still considers the Jewish people as God's chosen people, and some see the modern State of Israel as resulting in the Israel who will receive the fulfillment of all God's Old Testament promises.\n\nJohn Nelson Darby taught, and most subsequent dispensationalists have maintained, that God considers the Jews as his earthly chosen people, even as they remain in rejection of Jesus Christ, and God continues to maintain an earthly destiny in the future millennial Kingdom when the Lord Jesus Christ returns to earth and establishes it in fulfillment of prophecy in the prophetic scheme. Dispensationalists teach that a remnant within the nation of Israel will be born again, called of God, and by grace brought to realize that they crucified their Messiah. Dispensationalism is unique in teaching that the Church stands in a dispensation that occurs as a parenthesis in the prophetic Kingdom program, a dispensational \"mystery\" or \"grace\" period, meaning that it was not directly revealed in prophecy in the Old Testament, and that this \"age of grace\" will end with the rapture of the church allowing the prophetic clock for Israel to start up again. Then the Jewish remnant becomes manifest through the Great Tribulation as a result of recognizing Jesus as their promised Messiah during the trials that come upon them in this Tribulation which serves to purify the nation. Darby's teachings envision Judaism as continuing to enjoy God's protection literally to the end of time, and teach that God has a separate earthly and prophetic Kingdom \"program,\" to use J. Dwight Pentecost's term, for Israel and another heavenly (destined) Mystery program for the Church. Dispensationalists teach that God has eternal covenants with Israel which cannot be violated and must be honored and fulfilled.\n\nDispensationalists affirm the necessity for Jews to receive Jesus as Messiah, while also stressing that God has not forsaken those who are physically descended from Abraham through Isaac. They claim that God made unconditional covenants with Israel as a people and nation in the Abrahamic, Palestinian, Davidic, and New Covenant.\n\nChristian dispensationalists sometimes endorse what some critics have pejoratively termed \"Judeophilia\", ranging from endorsement of the state of Israel to observing traditional Jewish holidays and practicing traditionally Jewish religious rituals. (\"See also\" Christian Zionism, Jewish Christians, Judaizers, Hebrew Roots, and Messianic Judaism). Dispensationalists typically endorse the modern state of Israel, consider its existence as a political entity as God revealing his will for the Last Days, and reject anti-Semitism.\n\nDispensationalists tend to have special interest in the Jews because the dispensationalist hermeneutic honors Biblical passages that list Jews as among God's chosen people. Some Messianic Jews, however, reject dispensationalism in favor of related but distinct hermeneutics called Olive Tree Theology. The name refers to the passages of Romans 11:17–18: \"If some of the branches were broken off, and you, a wild olive, were grafted in among them and have become equal sharers in the rich root of the olive tree, then don't boast as if you were better than the branches!\"\n\nIsrael has allied with U.S. evangelicals and dispensationalists to influence U.S. foreign policy, including protection of the Jewish people in Israel and continued aid for the state of Israel. Israel's alliance with televangelist John Hagee began in the early 1980s as he met with every Prime Minister of Israel since Menachem Begin. Since the mid-2000s Israel has been in commercial alliance with televangelist and sometimes-politician Pat Robertson, and in 2005 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said, \"I mean that we have no greater friend in the whole world than Pat Robertson.\"\n\nPolitical commentator Kevin Phillips claimed in \"American Theocracy\" (2006) that dispensationalist and other fundamentalist Christians, together with the oil lobby, have provided political assistance for the invasion of Iraq during 2003.\n\nDispensationalist themes form the basis of the popular \"Left Behind\" series of books.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17604737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17604737", "title": "Dongyue Temple", "text": "Dongyue Temple\n\nDongyue Temple may refer to several Taoist/folk religious temples dedicated to the Great Deity of the Eastern Peak (), that is Mount Tai:\n\n"}
{"id": "46465561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46465561", "title": "Dun Ailline Druid Brotherhood", "text": "Dun Ailline Druid Brotherhood\n\nThe Dun Ailline Druid Brotherhood (also known as Dun Ailline or HDDA, \"Hermandad Druida Dun Ailline\" in Spanish) is a pagan organization for followers of the Celtic Neopaganism based on Spain in 2010, which supports the practice of a type of Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism called Druidism, centered on the Celtic culture of Ireland, and whose principal deities are known as the Tuatha Dé Danann. Its members consider themselves practitioners of a European native religion and they call themselves \"creidim\", a concept of Irish origin.\n\nIn Spain, the Dun Ailline Druidic Brotherhood is legally registered under the number and Irish name 2854-SG/A – Traidisiún na Beannach Fia Mór – Irish Reconstructionist Druid Tradition, being one of the first neopagan religions legally recognized in Spain, traditionally a Catholic country, with other organizations like the \"Fintan Druidic Order\" and the \"Celtiberic Wicca\", among others.\n\nThe first revival of Druidism came from the hand of John Aubrey and John Toland. The September 21, 1716, day of the autumn equinox, the Druidic group of which John Toland was one of the members, was commissioned to proclaim symbolically at the top of Primrose Hill, and \"facing the eye of light\" (the sun), the call, for all Druids that may exist around the world, the assembly that was to take place on September 22, 1717 in London in the Apple Tree Tavern, Charles st., Coven garden. At the same time calls were sent by messengers to the various 'Bosquets or Groves' that were known to still exist. The delegates of the Druidic bardic circles and represented at the meeting of September 22, 1717 came from bosquets, groves or circles so far as London, York, Oxford, Wales, Cornwall, the Isle of Man, Anglesey, Scotland, Ireland and Armorica in France, especially of the town of Nantes.\n\nSubsequently, because of the Irish diaspora, a new nativist Druidic line, centered on the reconstructionism of the culture, spirituality and folklore of Ireland arises in United States. The \"creidim\" honor the deities known as Tuatha Dé Danann, headed by An Dagda and oldest Celtic deities like Cernunnos. The word \"creidim\" means believer in Gaeilge.\n\nAfter the disappearance of the Ord Draiochta Na Uisnech - ODU, Order made by Kenn R. White, in 2009 closes the Grove Magh Mor, \"grove\" in Spain that ODU dedicated to promoting the \"Tradition of the Great Stag\". In 2010 Marta Vey founded the \"Dun Ailline Druid Brotherhood\", in order to preserve and transmit the Tradition of the Great Stag. In the same year, 2010, a cultural association focused on the recreationism of Ireland in the 6th-9th centuries, whose purpose is to publicize their culture, customs and myths, was created.\n\nIn October 2012, HDDA becomes recognized as a religious denomination by the Government of Spain.\n\nIn November 2012 was admitted as a full member of the Spanish Platform for Religious Freedom of Paganism, created with the purpose of obtaining legal rights to practitioners of pagan beliefs and serve as interlocutor with the Government of Spain.\n\nIn December 2014, the HDDA participates in the II Pagan Day held in L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, (Barcelona).\n\nThe organization is headed by the \"Ard droi / Ard Bandrui\" who legally represents the religious association, being also the religious leader of it.\n\nHDDA base is formed by creidim. The priesthood is made by \"droi\" and \"Bandrui\". Any creidim can access the priestly preparation if you meet the requirements.\n\nIn 2014, the founder Marta Vey was named \"Ard Bandrui\" by the priestly assembly, and was ratified as legal and religious representative of HDDA.\n\nThe \"creidim \" are organized into local groups that meet for holding various celebrations.\n\n\nThe Four Pillars of Druidism and the Six Celtic Virtues, ethical code that suggest the behavior patterns of the creidim.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13817404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13817404", "title": "Eroakirkosta.fi", "text": "Eroakirkosta.fi\n\nEroakirkosta.fi is a Finnish website which offers an electronic service for resigning from Finland's state churches; the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland and the Finnish Orthodox Church. \"Eroa kirkosta\" translates to \"resign from the church\".\n\nThe website was created by Freethinkers of Tampere, an organisation that supports a formal separation of church and state, and opened on 21 November 2003. The Finnish law on freedom of religion was updated on 1 August 2003 and then allowed resigning from religions without a visit to a bureau. Because eroakirkosta.fi is not maintained by magistrates, the website can not directly resign a person from a church. Instead, the website forwards the filled-in resignation forms to magistrates who then complete the resignation. Resignations through e-mail are allowed because the Finnish law requires resignations to be \"in writing\" but not \"signed\". Eroakirkosta.fi also gives the user the alternative to print the resignation form and send it through regular mail.\n\nEroakirkosta.fi became popular very quickly. Within ten weeks over 1,400 people had resigned through the website. In 2004, almost 39% of all resignations in the country were done through eroakirkosta.fi. In 2005, the percentage increased to 68.9. In 2006, almost four out of five persons resigned through the website. The total resignation rates in Finland have also increased. The number of people resigning from the state churches has tripled in six years (2000–2006), and the 2005 and 2006 resignation numbers both break the old record of 30,710 from 1992. 47 300 members left the church through the service in 2008, that is 91% of all resignations (52,200). In 2011, 46,502 resignations and in 2012, 41,261 resignations were registered at the Eroakirkosta.fi site.\n\nThe web service received publicity October 2010, after a gay rights panel discussion on TV on 12 October was followed by thousands of people resigning from the Evangelical Lutheran Church by using the service.\n\nFrom inception through the end of 2015 more than a half million Finns out of a total population of 5.5 million resigned using the Eroa Kirkosta website, for the number of resignations by year refer table below. \n"}
{"id": "28569941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28569941", "title": "Exorcism in Christianity", "text": "Exorcism in Christianity\n\nExorcism in Christianity is the practice of casting out demons from a person they are believed to have possessed. The person performing the exorcism, known as an exorcist, is often a member of the Christian Church, or an individual thought to be graced with special powers or skills. The exorcist may use prayers and religious material, such as set formulas, gestures, symbols, icons, amulets, etc. The exorcist often invokes God, Jesus and/or several different angels and archangels to intervene with the exorcism. A survey of Christian exorcists found that most exorcists believe that any mature Christian can perform an exorcism, not just members of clergy. Christian exorcists most commonly believe the authority given to them by the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit (the Trinity) is the source of their ability to cast out demons.\n\nThe term became prominent in Early Christianity from the early 2nd century onward.\n\nIn general, people considered to be possessed are not regarded as evil in themselves, nor wholly responsible for their actions, because possession is considered to be unwilling manipulation by a demon resulting in harm to self or others. Therefore, practitioners regard exorcism as more of a cure than a punishment. The mainstream rituals usually take this into account, making sure that there is no violence to the possessed, only that they be tied down if there is potential for violence.\n\nThe \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" says that there is only one apparent case of demonic possession in the Old Testament, of King Saul being tormented by an \"evil spirit\" (1 Samuel 16:14), but it relies on an interpretation of the Hebrew word \"rûah\" as \"evil spirit\", an interpretation that is doubted by the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\". The \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" ties exorcism methods mentioned in extra-canonical Jewish literature to the driving off of a demon in the book of Tobias. Some theologians such as Ángel Manuel Rodríguez say that mediums like the ones mentioned in Leviticus 20:27 were possessed by demons.\n\nChristian exorcism is founded on the belief that Jesus commanded his followers to expel evil spirits in his name. According to the Catholic Encyclopedia article on Exorcism, Jesus points to this ability as a sign of his Messiahship, and he empowered his disciples to do the same.\n\nThe Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod traces the practice of exorcism to the Scriptural claim that Jesus Christ expelled demons with a simple command (Mark 1:23–26; 9:14–29; Luke 11:14–26). The apostles continued the practice with the power and in the name of Jesus (Matthew 10:1; Acts 19:11–16).\n\nThe Jewish Encyclopedia article on Jesus states that Jesus, \"was devoted especially to casting out demons,\" and also believed that he passed this on to his followers; however, \"his superiority to his followers was shown by his casting out demons which they had failed to expel.\"\n\nSt. Cyril of Jerusalem wrote, \"Receive the exorcisms with devotion...Divine exorcisms, borrowed from the Scripture, purify the soul.\"\n\nThe Benedictine \"Vade retro satana\" was used in the medieval era.\n\nIn the 15th century, Catholic exorcists were both clerical and lay, since every Christian has the power to command demons and drive them out in the name of Christ.\n\nAfter the Protestant Reformation, Martin Luther abbreviated the Roman ritual used for exorcism. In 1526, the ritual was further abbreviated and the exsufflation was omitted. This form of the \"Lutheran Ritual for Exorcism\" was incorporated into the majority of the Lutheran service-books and implemented.\n\nIn 1974, the Church of England set up the \"Deliverance ministry\". As part of its creation, every diocese in the country was equipped with a team trained in both exorcism and psychiatry. According to its representatives, most cases brought before it have conventional explanations, and actual exorcisms are quite rare; blessings, though, are sometimes given to people for psychological reasons.\n\nAnglican priests may not perform an exorcism without permission from the Diocesan bishop. An exorcism is not usually performed unless the bishop and his team of specialists (including a psychiatrist and physician) have approved it.\n\nIn the Episcopal Church, the \"Book of Occasional Services\" discusses provision for exorcism; but it does not indicate any specific rite, nor does it establish an office of \"exorcist\". Diocesan exorcists usually continue in their role when they have retired from all other church duties.\n\nAlbert Mohler, the ninth president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, states that Baptists, among other evangelical Christians, do \nAs a result of this theology, for the Baptist Christian, the weapons of \"warfare are spiritual, and the powers that the forces of darkness most fear are the name of Jesus, the authority of the Bible, and the power of his Gospel.\"\n\nIn Catholic dogma exorcism is a sacramental but not a sacrament, unlike baptism or confession. Unlike a sacrament, exorcism's \"integrity and efficacy do not depend ... on the rigid use of an unchanging formula or on the ordered sequence of prescribed actions. Its efficacy depends on two elements: authorization from valid and licit Church authorities, and the faith of the exorcist.\"\n\nThe Catholic Church revised the Rite of Exorcism in January 1999, though the traditional Rite of Exorcism in Latin is allowed as an option. The act of exorcism is considered to be an incredibly dangerous spiritual task. The ritual assumes that possessed persons retain their free will, though the demon may hold control over their physical body, and involves prayers, blessings, and invocations with the use of the document \"Of Exorcisms and Certain Supplications\". In the modern era, Catholic bishops rarely authorize exorcisms, approaching would-be cases with the presumption that mental or physical illness is more likely.\n\nSolemn exorcisms, according to the Canon law of the church, can be exercised only by an ordained priest (or higher prelate), with the express permission of the local bishop, and only after a careful medical examination to exclude the possibility of mental illness, and in the ritual people cannot in any circumstance be harmed. The \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" (1908) enjoined: \"Superstition ought not to be confounded with religion, however much their history may be interwoven, nor magic, however white it may be, with a legitimate religious rite.\" Things listed in the Roman Ritual as being indicators of possible demonic possession include: speaking foreign or ancient languages of which the possessed has no prior knowledge; supernatural abilities and strength; knowledge of hidden or remote things which the possessed has no way of knowing; an aversion to anything holy; and profuse blasphemy and/or sacrilege.\n\nFr. Gabriele Amorth, who claimed to have performed 160,000 exorcisms, said exorcists have the ability to detect an evil presence. However, he notes that \"they are not always right: their 'feelings' must be checked out.\" In his examples, they are able to detect the events that caused the demon to enter, or are able to discover the evil object that has cursed the individual. He notes that \"they are always humble.\"\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church, demonic activity is inextricably associated with disease and blight. As a result, exorcisms are quite common, even finding their way in rituals involving the blessing of fields. The exorcism ritual, found in the \"Euchologion\", is that of St. Basil the Great. The baptism liturgy in Eastern Orthodoxy also contains an exorcism ritual.\n\nThe Lutheran Church traces the practice of exorcism to the Scriptural claim that Jesus Christ expelled demons with a simple command (Mark 1:23–26; 9:14–29; Luke 11:14–26). The apostles continued the practice with the power and in the name of Jesus (Matthew 10:1; Acts 19:11–16). Contrary to some denominations of Christianity, Lutheranism affirms that the individual, both the believer and the non-believer, can be plagued by demons, based on several arguments, including the one that \"just as a believer, whom Jesus Christ has delivered from sin (Romans 6:18), can still be bound by sin in his life, so he can still be bound by a demon in his life.\"\n\nAfter the Protestant Reformation, Martin Luther abbreviated the Roman ritual used for exorcism. In 1526, the ritual was further abbreviated and the exsufflation was omitted. This form of the \"Lutheran Ritual for Exorcism\" was incorporated into the majority of the Lutheran service-books and implemented. According to a Pastoral Handbook of the Lutheran Church, \nThese pastoral manuals warn that often, symptoms such as ecstasy, epileptic seizures, lethargy, insanity, and a frantic state of mind, are the results of natural causes and should not be mistaken for demon possession. According to the Lutheran Church, primary symptoms that may indicate demon possession and the need of an exorcism include:\nThe Church lists the secondary symptoms of horrible shouting (Mark 5:5), blasphemy of God and jeering at one's neighbor, deformation of movements (e.g. ferocious movements, facial contortion, immodest laughing, gnashing of teeth, spitting, removing clothes, lacerating self, Mk. 9:20; Lk. 8:27.), inhuman revelry (e.g. when they take food beyond the capability of nature), torment of bodies, unusual injuries of the body and of those nearby, extraordinary motion of bodies (e.g., an elderly man who, being demon-possessed, was able to run as fast as a horse), and forgetfulness of things done. Other symptoms include the corruption of reason in man, which make him like an animal, melancholy, the acceleration of death (Mark 9:18 [suicide attempts]), and the presence of other supernatural occurrences.\n\nAfter these determinations have been made, the Church recommends experienced physicians to determine whether there is a medical explanation for the behaviour of the individual. When a true possession is recognized, the poor one is to be committed to the care of a minister of the Church who teaches sound doctrine, is of a blameless life, who does nothing for the sake of filthy lucre, but does everything from the soul. The pastor is then to diligently inquire what kind of life the possessed one led up to this point and lead him or her through the law to the recognition of his sins. After this admonition or consolation has taken place, the works of a natural physician are to be used, who will cleanse the possessed one from malicious fluids with the appropriate medicines. The Pastoral Handbook then states:\nMany Mennonite colleges and seminaries include training for the ministry of exorcism. The Mennonite minister and exorcist Dean Hochstetler states that powwowing, a practice done by some in the Pennsylvania Dutch community, \"brings people under bondage to Satan.\" On 30 July to 1 August 1987, the \"Associated Mennonite Biblical Seminaries, Mennonite Board of Missions (MC) and the Indiana-Michigan Mennonite Conference (MC) sponsored a consultation on 'Bondage and Deliverance'.\"\n\nThe British Methodist Church holds that the ritual of exorcism involves \"the casting out of an objective power of evil which has gained possession of a person.\" Moreover, the Methodist Church teaches that \"the authority to exorcise has been given to the Church as one of the ways in which Christ's Ministry is continued in the world.\" A minister must first consult the District Chair in order to perform an exorcism. The Methodist Church holds that it is of great importance to ensure that the presence and love of Christ is assured to the individual(s) seeking help. In addition, the ministry of the \"Bible, prayer and sacraments\" should be extended to these individuals as well. A combination of these things has been proven to be effective.\n\nFor example, in one particular situation, a Roman Catholic woman believed that her house was haunted, and therefore consulted her priest for assistance. Since he was not available to drive the demons from the woman's home, she contacted a Methodist pastor, who exorcised the evil spirits from a room, which was believed to be the source of distress in the house, and celebrated Holy Communion in the same place; following these actions, there was no longer any problem in the house. In another situation, The Reverend Jay Bartlett writes that a young lady who was involved with \"drug abuse, self mutilation, severe abuse, mental torment, Satanism, occult activity, communion with demons, and other evils\" was exorcised at Mt. Olive Free Methodist Church in Dallas over a period of seven nights, with \"anointing oil, the Word of God (the sword of the Spirit), holy water, the sacred symbols of the cross, the blood of Christ, and consecrated materials [being] utilized to drive out the demons.\"\n\nIn the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, priests intervene and perform exorcisms on behalf of those believed to be afflicted by demons or \"buda\". According to a 2010 Pew Research Center study, 74% of Christians in Ethiopia claim to have experienced or witnessed an exorcism. Demon-possessed persons are brought to a church or prayer meeting. Often, when an ill person has not responded to modern medical treatment, the affliction is attributed to demons. Unusual or especially perverse deeds, particularly when performed in public, are symptomatic of a demoniac. Superhuman strength – such as breaking one's bindings, as described in the New Testament accounts – along with glossolalia are observed in the afflicted. Amsalu Geleta, in a modern case study, relates elements that are common to Ethiopian Christian exorcisms:\n\nIt includes singing praise and victory songs, reading from the Scripture, prayer and confronting the spirit in the name of Jesus. Dialogue with the spirit is another important part of the exorcism ceremony. It helps the counselor (exorcist) to know how the spirit was operating in the life of the demoniac. The signs and events mentioned by the spirit are affirmed by the victim after deliverance.\n\nThe exorcism is not always successful, and Geleta notes another instance in which the usual methods were unsuccessful, and the demons apparently left the subject at a later time. In any event, \"in all cases the spirit is commanded in no other name than the name of Jesus.\"\n\nIn the Pentecostal Church, Charismatic Movement, and other the less formalized sections of Christianity, the exorcism ritual can take many forms and belief structures. The most common of these is the deliverance ceremony. Deliverance differs from the exorcism ceremony in that the Devil may have gotten a foothold into a person's life rather than gaining complete control . If complete control has been gained, a full-fledged exorcism is necessary. However, a \"spirit-filled Christian\" cannot be possessed, based on their beliefs. Within this belief structure, the reasons for the devil to get a foothold are usually explained to be some sort of deviation from theological doctrine or because of pre-conversion activities (like dealing with the occult).\n\nThe traditional method for determining if a person needs a deliverance is done by having someone present who has the gift of discerning of spirits. This is a gift of the Holy Spirit from 1 Corinthians 12 that allows a person to \"sense\" in some way an evil presence. While the initial diagnosis is usually uncontested by the congregation, when many people are endowed with this gift in a single congregation, results may vary.\n\nCritics of exorcism contend that so-called 'possession' is often, in fact, undiagnosed mental illness and the performance of an exorcism in such cases exacerbates the condition and can even be considered abuse. There have also been cases where exorcists have abused their position for financial gain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13630332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13630332", "title": "Gender in Bible translation", "text": "Gender in Bible translation\n\nGender in Bible translation concerns various issues, such as the gender of God and generic antecedents in reference to people. Many in today’s churches have become conscious of and concerned about sexism. Bruce Metzger states the English language is so biased towards the male gender that it may restrict and obscure meaning from original languages. The New Revised Standard Version (NRSV) was one of the first major translations to adopt gender-neutral language. The King James Version translated at least one passage using a technique that many now reject in other translations, \"Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God\" (Matt. 5:9). The Greek word υἱοὶ that appears in the original is usually translated as \"sons\", but in this passage the translators chose to use the term \"children\" that included both genders. Opponents of gender neutral language believe that readers who are not familiar with the original languages, can be influenced by a compromised meaning they believe is feminist.\n\nThere are two translations that are particularly notable for their efforts to take radical steps in this regard, both explaining their reasons and their techniques in their front matter. The titles of the two translations are similar, but the two translations are distinct. The first is \"The Inclusive New Testament\" (1994), the second is \"\" (1995). The first one deliberately tried to make the text agree with their creed, pointing out that when they saw problems with the message of the text \"it becomes our license to introduce \"midrash\" into the text\" (p. xxi). It is an original translation. The second one, however, is based on the NRSV, making changes as the editorial team saw fit, but being less radical to change the message of the original. \n\nThere are a number of ways to translate the names of God into English from Hebrew. Hebrew uses only four consonants for the name—\"Yod-Heh-Waw-Heh\" (יהוה, YHWH)—hence it is called the Tetragrammaton. Some modern English bibles render this as \"L\"—\"L\" capital, and \"ord\" in small capital font face. Others use \"Yahweh\", and the old King James Version used \"Jehovah\". In English, outside Bible translations, the tetragrammaton is often written as \"YHWH\" or \"YHVH\".\n\nThe original meaning of this form is connected with the \"I AM\" of Exodus 3:14 (and it probably contains a Hebrew masculine verb prefix—the \"Y\" or \"yod\"). Sometimes this word is rendered into English by using Hebrew \"Adonai\", instead of attempting to directly translate \"YHWH\", following an ancient Jewish custom of respect.\n\nThe Hebrew word \"Adonai\" literally means \"my lord\" (with pseudo-plural), and is usually translated as \"Lord\". The Hebrew names \"Elohim\", \"El\", \"Shaddai\", and \"Yah\" are usually translated as \"God\"—with \"Elohim\" being the most common. \"Elyon\" translates as \"Most High\".\n\nThere are a number of compound names for God. \"YHVH Tzevaot\" is translated as \"Lord of Hosts\". \"YHVH Elohe tzevaot\" would be \"Lord God of Hosts\". Among non-Orthodox Jews, there is a growing tendency to avoid the gender-in-English-language debate, and to simultaneously reclaim the vocabulary of Hebrew itself, by not translating these names in English prayers.\n\nAn example of a traditional translation is:\nAn alternative translation is:\n\nMany prayers use one or more of the names for God many times within the same paragraph. The first time it appears a proper name is used, while further instances use a third person pronoun (he, she or it). English speakers usually use masculine or feminine third person pronouns to refer to people, and the third person pronoun—\"it\"—to refer to non-people. Traditionally, in Jewish, Christian, and Muslim writing, the third-person pronoun \"He\" has been used to refer to God in English translations. In non-religious contexts, English speakers have generally used the word \"he\" as a substitute for a gender-neutral third person pronoun.\n\nThe idea of God being an \"It\" rather than a \"he\" or \"she\" does have some support in Jewish, Christian and Islamic rationalist medieval thought, much of which was based on Neo-Aristotelian philosophy. Some medieval philosophers of all three of these religions took great pains to make clear that God was in no way like a person, and that all apparently physical descriptions of God were only poetic metaphors.\n\nIn the Chinese language, translators of the Christian Bible have created a new Chinese character to act as a divine pronoun: 祂 (Pinyin: \"tā\"). \"Tā\", in essence, is the universal third person pronoun for all objects and persons. However, personhood (as well as gender) can be distinguished in writing. The normal pronoun for \"he\", 他, is also used in generic cases. The radical 亻(\"rén\") marks personhood (distinct from non-human referents), not simply gender alone. The radical in 祂, 礻(\"shì\"), marks the \"elevated personhood\" of divinity, without implying anything about the gender of the divinity referred to. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "18073438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18073438", "title": "Ghoonghat", "text": "Ghoonghat\n\nA ghoonghat (\"ghunghat\", \"ghunghta\", \"ghumta\", \"odhni\", \"laaj\", \"chunari\", \"jhund\") is a veil or headscarf worn by some married Hindu, and Jain women to cover their head, and often their face. Generally \"aanchal\" or \"pallu\", the loose end of a sari is pulled over the head and face to act as a ghunghat. A \"dupatta\" (long scarf) is also commonly used as a ghungat. Today, facial veiling by Hindu women as part of everyday attire is now mostly limited to the Hindi-speaking areas of India.\n\nFacial veiling is not sanctioned in Hinduism, Jainism, and Buddhism but some sections of the society from the 1st century B.C. advocated the use of the veil for married women, which came to be known as ghoonghat. It has been both romanticized and criticized in religious and folk literature.\n\nThe word \"ghoongat\", \"ghunghat\" or \"ghunghta\" is derived from \"Avagunthana\" (Sanskrit: अवगुण्ठन) meaning \"veil\", \"hiding\" and \"cloak\" and \"Oguntheti\" (Pali: ओगुन्थेति) \"to cover\", \"veil over\" and \"hide\". \n\nThe \"ghoongat\", \"ghunghat\" or \"ghunghta\" veil evolved from ancient \"Avagunthana\" in (Sanskrit: अवगुण्ठन) \"veil\", \"hiding\" and \"cloak\". Early Sanskrit literature has a wide vocabulary of terms for the veils used by women, such as \"avagunthana\" meaning cloak-veil, \"uttariya\" meaning shoulder-veil, \"mukha-pata\" meaning face-veil, and \"sirovas-tra\" meaning head-veil.\n\nIn Valmiki's \"Ramayana\" dated between the 5th century BCE to the first century BCE, Prince Rama asks his wife Sita to unveil herself so that the gathered citizens of Ayodhya can take a look at them before they go in exile to the forest; there is no mention of Sita veiling herself again after this incident. At the end of the epic, hearing the news of Ravana's death, his queens giving up to lamentations rush outside without their \"Avagunthana\", in which chief queen Mandodari surrounding his corpse says \"Why do you not get angry, beholding me, having put off my veil, walk out on foot by the city gate? Do you behold your wives who have thrown off their veils. Why are you not angry seeing them all come out of the city?\" Thus, it is notable that royal women avoided public gaze and veiling was expected to be worn only by married women. \n\nŚūdraka, the author of Mṛcchakatika set in the fifth century BC, said that the \"Avagaunthaha\" was not used by women everyday and at every time. He said that a married lady was expected to put on a veil while moving in the public. This may indicate that it was not necessary for unmarried females to put on a veil.\n\nIn Mṛcchakatika written in 3rd century BCE, courtesan Vasantasena's mother, having received ornaments for her daughter from a wealthy suitor to keep her as his mistress, she sends Vasantasena with her maid, asks her to go in the carriage bedecked with ornaments and to put on her \"avagunthana\" veil. This instruction is taken to signify that a courtesan who has accepted a suitor, had to use a veil in public similar to married women. At the end of the play when Vasanthasena is legally wedded, she receives the title \"\"Vadhūśabda\" meaning \"title of a bride\" simultaneously with the veil \"vasantasenām avagunthya\" meaning \"a token of honorable marriage\"\". In the same literature, courtesans' maid servant Madanika marries her lover Sarvilaka, a thief who changes his ways. Her new husband says to her that she has achieved what is difficult to acquire: \"\"Vadhūśabda avagunthanam\" meaning \"the title and veil of a bride\"\". \n\nIn the \"Pratimānātaka\", a play by Bhāsa (3 - 4 CE) describes in context of the \"Avagunthana\" cloak-veil that \"ladies may be seen without any blame [for the parties concerned] in a religious session, in marriage festivities, during a calamity and in a forest\". The same sentiment is more generically expressed in \"Nāgānanda\" and \"Priyadarśikā\" by Harsha, where maidens were expected to wear no veil; it was donned only after the marriage. Later, the veil was referred to by the same term, \"avagunthana\", in \"Śiśupālavadha\" and the \"Dashakumaracharita\". According to commentator Sankara, the ladies of Sthanvisvara used to go about covering their faces with a veil.\n\nIn Buddhist Mahayana literature, Lalitavistara Sūtra written in the 3rd century CE, young bride Yasodharā objected to observe veiling (oguntheti/oguṇthikā) in front of respected elders. This was taken to be a sign of immodesty and willfulness, as people criticized her and gossiped. When she became aware of this, Yasodharā came before the assembled court and defended herself in a long statement: \"Those whose thoughts have no cover, no shame or decorum or any virtue, those who gossip, may cover themselves with a thousand garments, yet they walk the earth naked. But those who veil their minds, control their senses, and have no thought for any other except their husband, why should they veil their faces?\" Yasodharā's parents-in-law were delighted with their daughter-in-law's proud statement and gave her two white garments covered with jewels. \n\nThe Lalitavistara Sūtra reflects changing times around the 3rd century CE and Buddhists' attempt to counter this growing practice, as there is no mention of this entire incident in early Buddhist Theravada literature. \n\nIn \"Abhijñānaśākuntalam\" by Kālidāsa, written between the 3rd and 4th century CE, when the heroine arrives at King Duhsanta's palace, seeking to take up her wifely status, the king first remarks \"\"Kā svid avagunthanavati\" meaning \"who is this veiled one?\"\" and immediately forbears to look at her, with the words \"Anirvarnaniyam parakalatram\" meaning \"The wife of another is not to be inspected.\" This largely indicates that \"Avagunthana\" was a sign of a respectable married woman, and was a married woman's raiment.\n\nIn \"Kathāsaritsāgara\" written in the 11th century AD, heroine in the story \"Ratnaprabhā\" protesting: \"I consider that the strict seclusion of women is a folly produced by jealousy. It is of no use whatsoever. Women of good character are guarded only by their own virtue and nothing else.\" Rational opposition against veiling and seclusion from spirited ladies resulted in the system not becoming popular for several centuries. However, it is notable that some section of society from the 1st century B.C. advocated the use of the veil for married women. There is no proof that a large section of society observed \"strict\" veiling until the medieval period. \n\nUnder the Islamic Mughal Empire, various aspects of veiling and seclusion of women was adopted, such as the concept of Purdah and Zenana, partly as an additional protection for women. Purdah became common in the 15th and 16th century, as both \"Vidyāpati\" and \"Chaitanya\" mention it. Sikhism was highly critical of purdah; Guru Amar Das condemned it and rejected seclusion and veiling of women, which saw decline of purdah among most classes during this period.\n\nIn ghoonghat practice, facial veiling observed by married women is known as \"Laaj\" (Sanskrit: लज्जा, Lajja - \"modesty\", \"honor\", \"shame\"). In veiling practice, it literally means \"To keep (one's) modesty, shame and honor\". Earliest attested word \"Laaj\" in context of veiling is found in Valmiki's \"Ramayana\" as \"lajjaavaguNThanaan\" describing Mandodari. However, it is unclear whether it refers to facial veiling.\n\nDuring a marriage ceremony, the bride wears a veil given by her parents. Later, during the ceremony the bride's mother-in-law covers her face with ghoonghat; she therefore simultaneously wears the veil given by her parents and that from her in-laws, symbolizing her passing from the protection of one's household to another. \n\nMuh Dikhai (Devanagari: मूह दिखाई, first gaze) is a post-wedding ceremony, where the bride is formally introduced to the groom's relatives and extended family. The ceremony takes place once the bride arrives in her new home; each family member lifts her veil, looks at the bride and gives her a welcoming gift. She receives \"Shagun\" from her mother-in-law, which is typically jewelry, clothing and silverware. After this ceremony the bride observes full veiling for the next few months or until her parents-in-law advise her to unveil.\n\nDuring the early 1900s, women of royal and aristocratic class were first to abandon strict veiling in public. However, the head was loosely veiled due to sensitivity towards the custom during changing times. The other classes soon followed; it lingered on in some parts of India until well after the 1940s. Facial veiling has gradually declined, and is mostly limited to parts of Hindi-speaking areas today. In ghungat, a woman will veil her face from all men to whom she's related by marriage and who are senior to her husband. This would include, for example, her husband's father, elder brother and uncles. The effect of ghungat is to limit a young woman's interaction with older men.\n\nIn 2004, the India Human Development Survey (IHDS) found that 55% of women in India practice some form of ghoonghat, majority of them in Hindi-speaking states. The survey found that some women may cover their face fully but for others, partial covering of the face is more a nod to propriety than a large impediment.\n"}
{"id": "4692621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4692621", "title": "Green Acre Bahá'í School", "text": "Green Acre Bahá'í School\n\nGreen Acre Bahá'í School is one of three leading institutions owned by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States. The name of the site has had various versions of \"Green Acre\" since before its founding in 1894 by Sarah Farmer and is a conference facility in Eliot, Maine, in the United States. It had a prolonged process of progress and challenge while run by Farmer until about 1913 when she was indisposed after converting to the Bahá'í Faith in 1900. `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, visited there during his travels in the West in 1912. Farmer died in 1916 and thereafter it had evolved into the quintessential Bahá'í school directly inspiring Louhelen Bahá'í School and Bosch Bahá'í School, the other two of the three schools owned by the national assembly, and today serves as a leading institution of the religion in America. It hosted diverse programs of study, presenters, and been a focus for dealing with racism in the United States through being a significant venue for Race Amity Conventions (later renamed Race Unity Day meetings) and less than a century later the Black Men's Gatherings and further events.\n\nThe Piscataqua River by which Green Acre Bahá'í school stands was named from Abenaki Native Americans of the Wabanaki Confederacy describing where a river separates into several parts - \"a place where boats and canoes ascending the river together from its mouth were compelled to separate according to their several destinations.\" The town of Eliot was founded 1810 from Kittery, Maine which itself was founded in the 1600s. By the mid 1800s the area served as a shipyard including launching the USS Nightingale in 1851. At the time of the founding of the school there were some 1,400 people in Eliot and the town has grown in recent years to near 7,000 today.\n\nSarah Farmer's mother, Hannah Tobey Farmer (1823–1891) was raised Methodist. Her father, Moses Gerrish Farmer (1820–1893) a Dartmouth graduate in 1844, had success in the new field of electrical engineering and telegraph work and was a heartfelt Christian, though he has also been called a Spiritualist and Transcendentalist. Moses and Hannah also married in 1844 and Sarah was born 1847. It is said that the Farmer's home, before they lived in Eliot, was part of the Underground railroad.\n\nIt is unclear when the land in Eliot came to be owned by the Farmer family. However, they lived in a variety of places in New England until, after 1880, when the family moved to Eliot and Moses retired. The home they built in Eliot was called Bittersweat, or Bittersweet-in-the-Fields. Hannah established a memorial non-segregated service called \"Rosemary\" as a retreat for unwed or poor mothers and working women in Eliot where, for a donation of $7 ($181 in 2014,) families would have a two-week vacation, up to 40 at a time in 1888. In 1887 Sarah re-animated the Eliot Library Association and set a number of meetings with speakers while also serving as secretary and helping build a list of patrons of the library of some 700 people. Singer Emma Cecilia Thursby recalled her first visit to what was called \"Greenacre\" was in 1889. Greenacre is and was situated on a bluff overlooking the river which is a mile wide. A group of investors signed a contract to set up a hotel at the cite in 1890 initially called the Eliot Hotel or Inn. In 1891 there were paying customers staying at the Inn. Farmer had an originating idea about a spiritual theme for the development of the property in June 1892 and then journeyed with her father to the Chicago Columbian Exposition in late 1892 where she met with Swedenborgian Charles Bonney, the \"visionary\" behind the World's Parliament of Religions, and gained encouragement for her vision for a center of learning for spiritual teachers - an idea blessed by family friends Arthur Wesley Down and John Greenleaf Whittier. Her father died that spring, 1893, and she had to leave before the Parliament took place. She took a brief trip to Norway with Sara Chapman Bull in her grief, and she made it back to the Parliament only in October 1893 after it was over. Farmer made what she recorded in her diary as a \"solemn vow\" to building the school for spiritual teachers on 4 February 1894. However, by about 1894 the hotel was called a failure and was boarded up when Farmer approached the investors with the plan to use Greenacre as a place to host lectures on religion. Farmer proposed to her investors to use the closed Inn. By 1897 it was capable of housing 75 or more guests and had a number of cottages around the property with a grassy plain that sometimes hosted a tent camp.\n\nFollowing the enthusiasm of the Parliament, Farmer set up the beginnings of using the Greenacre Inn as a summer center of cross-religion gatherings and cultural development. She had success attracting support from Bostonian businessmen, wives of businessmen and politicians, most especially Phoebe Hearst. The work was inaugurated in 1894 with her words \"The spirit of criticism will be absolutely laid down - if it comes in it will be gently laid aside; each will contribute his best and listen sympathetically to those who present different ideals. The comparison will be made by the audience, not by the teachers.\" The early collection of religious interests was wide - Farmer participated with Spiritualist trance-speakers who appeared to channel her father so convincingly the family dog responded, a fact William James took note of.\n\nOne of the first such promulgators of spiritual insight there was Carl H. A. Bjerregaard where he would frequent through at least 1896. Swami Vivekananda, a prominent Hindu monk serving in interfaith awareness efforts and spent nearly two months there in the summer of 1894. His words were printed in the short lived \"The Greenacre Voice\" established with the school-and-conference center running at least to 1897. A review appeared in the local Boston Evening Transcript.\nA short list of presentations was published in the newspaper even as far away as Chicago also featured academic scholars as well as priests presenting on religions: Professor Ernst Fenollosa, Boston Museum of Fine Arts - \"The Relation of Religion to Art\"; Rev. Dr. Edward Everett Hale, \"Sociology\"; Rev. Dr. William Alger, \"Universal Religion\"; Edwin Meade, \"Immanuel Kant\"; Professor Thomas C. Wild, \"Union for Practical Progress\"; Frank B Sanborn, \"The Humane treatment of Mental and Spiritual Aberrations\"; Margaret B. Peeke from Sandusky Ohio, \"The Soul in its search after God\"; and Abby Morton Diaz, \"The Work of humanity for humanity\" were among the \"well known\" presenters but the distinction of the summer school was of lecturers who were younger and less well known that those of the earlier Concord School of Philosophy maintained by the Transcendentalists previously which closed about 1887 and less about philosophy than of comparative study initially. The sessions were positively reviewed. Sanborn would soon be among the leaders operating at Greenacre. Professor Lewis G. Janes was there giving talks on \"Darwin and Spencer\", \"Social Tendencies under Evolution\" and \"Life as a Fine Art\" and would also soon take a leading role in developments as well. There was also something of a windstorm that year. The \"school\" had a winter session in Cambridge with several repeat appearances hosted by Sara Chapman Bull. Indeed, these winter sessions continued some years and came to be called the \"Cambridge Conferences\" directed by Janes.\n\nAn 1895 address book of Farmer's revealed she had contact information on a number of leaders of thought and religion in America. That summer among those that met at the conference center were evolutionists, and Farmer invited Lewis Janes to assist with the program development. Janes was a student of Herbert Spencer. An engine inventor also presented. The conference grew to the point the Inn itself was too small and a tent camp arose as well as buildings to provide shelter from rain or sun were added.\n\nIn 1896 Sanborn organized an \"Emerson Day\" (after Ralph Waldo Emerson) and it continued for more than a decade. That year a formal reunion of the Concord School of Philosophy was also held. In addition to the talks on art, actual musical concerts, painters, sculptors, poets began to make appearances at Greenacre. Strong calls for peace against war from the conference got printed in the \"Boston Evening Transcript\".\n\nThe \"Monsalvat School for the Comparative Study of Religion\", a progressive or liberal development seen against conservative religious experience, was established formally in 1896 as an institution hosted at Greenacre and the first director was Lewis Janes. \"Monsalvat\" was named after the sacred mountain in Wagner's Parsifal where the Holy Grail was kept, though it is most often spelled \"Montsalvat\". However, Farmer and Janes differed often - Janes wanted academic credentials among his speakers and a business-like plan for the economic solvency of the work by charging everyone rather than trusting on contributions. They had serious difficulty even agreeing on what they were talking about - \"This difference of understanding could never have occurred between two men accustomed to business methods,\" Janes wrote in 1899. Farmer framed the school as a place for encounter between religious leaders for \"a fuller realization\" of unity among religions, and relied on generosity and enthusiasm to overcome the challenges of economy. Nevertheless, the school and Greenacre continue to operate and was noted in newspapers.\nThe August 1897 season opened with the new lecture hall the \"Eirenion\", (\"place of peace\",) and Sarah Farmer and Greenacre made the New York Times. A book was circulated in Japan about it too. Prominent Buddhist monk Anagarika Dharmapala stayed at Greenacre where he worked on practices himself and offered classes and talks on specific meditational disciplines as well as quotes on the teachings of the Buddha. He was enthusiastic about the kind of interfaith coming together process of Greenacre. Unitarian Alfred W. Martin closed the 1897 season with a talk \"Universal Religion and the World's Religions\", the theme of which became his life's work. Electrical engineers met at the conference center at least in 1897 as the fiftieth anniversary of the invention of the electric tolley car.\n\nThe 1898 session on the Monsalvat school listed a variety of people including Janes himself on \"Relation of Science to Religious Thought\", Swami Abhedananda on \"Vedanta philosophy and Religions of India\", \"Hebrew Prophets\" by Prof. Nathaniel Schmidt, \"Literature, Ethics and Philosophy of the Talmud\" by Rabbi Joseph Krauskopf, \"Islam and the Koran\" by Emil Nabokoff, \"Philosophy and Religions of the Jains\" by Vichand Raghavji Gandhi and others.\nA diary of Charles W. Chesnutt noted he was a replacement speaker for Walter Hines Page for a talk in 1899 on the condition of African-Americans in the South, and commented on witnessing a diversity of clothing representing cultures of the world. Farmer's farewell address for the 1899 season was printed in the Boston Evening Transcript and contained warm thoughts of the development of the work and its ongoing goals. A beatific booklet \"Greenacre on the Piscataqua\" of some 22 pages with a section written in August 1899 and another in September 1900 was published. Bahá'ís have identified a quote from the religion in the 1899 program and speculate Farmer had heard of the religion. However, in Farmer's life and the structure of Greenacre there was crisis. According to scholar Eric Leigh Schmidt Sanborn was working for a \"creation of a new shrine\" for transcendentalism akin to reforming the Concord school centered on Emerson and used his coverage work of Greenacre in newspaper stories to frame that development while at the same time Janes drifted explicitly from Farmer's approach by charging people for the classes and insisting on academic credentials and approaches to understand the diversity of religions. Janes' disconnect from Farmer had reached the point of shutting down the Monsalvat school. There were also tensions between Sanborn and Janes and among other groups. There had been speculation on Farmer being bought out, creditors were nervous, and her business partners had thought to force Farmer to sell out.\n\nWhile her partners were seeking to meet with her, Farmer was already aboard the SS \"Fürst Bismarck\" out of New York as a guest of Maria P. Wilson trying to release herself of her worries in first week of January 1900. Wilson and Farmer ran into friends Josephine Locke and Elizabeth Knudson aboard ship - and eventually learned they were on the way to see `Abdu'l-Bahá who was leader of a new religion and had in their possession an early prayer book. Wilson was dubious but eventually the ladies changed their plans and went along. They waited in Egypt where there are pictures of her with Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl and scenes there, before leaving for Haifa March 23, 1900.\n\nA few years later her friend Mary Hanford Ford related some of what took place meeting `Abdu'l-Bahá as a second hand account. A few facts are detailed - Farmer had met `Abdu'l-Bahá and accepted the religion on one occasion, and on another wanted to ask him a series of questions in the context of a review of her whole life - but when she wrote it all down she left the notebook in the hurry of being called to come to him in the early morning. She reported he answered the questions spontaneously and in the right order starting in such a way that the translator was confused because no question had been asked. At the end of that interview she cried \"... strange tears of ecstatic happiness, and went to her room to recover the composure which had been shaken by these surprising and illuminating events.\" This list of questions is referred to in another briefer recollection. Anise Rideout had a similar record of the incident. Rideout reports that `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote an inscription in Farmer's Bible dated March 26. For Maria Wilson's part she also joined the religion and was the first Bahá'í to move to Boston.\n\nAfter being in Haifa and Egypt the women also spent some time in Paris among a small group of Bahá'ís after the visit, and Rome.\n\nThe Summer 1900 program went on without Farmer, though the Monsalvat school was suspended that year. Farmer returned to the United States in November, injured on arrival according to one account. There were also reports that the translator at the meeting had come to the United States with Farmer on the return voyage. She was noted back in Eliot in May 1901. An organizational meeting came together May 22 and dedicated a site on nearby \"Mount Monsalvat\", as Farmer called it, to eventually host a school. Kate C. Ives was among those present. That Spring of 1901 she also met with Phoebe Hearst, who herself had been to see `Abdu'l-Bahá a few years earlier and she too had adopted the religion.\n\nFarmer was publicly linked with the religion in June 1901. Of the Bahá'í Faith, it was explained, \"... she has found the common faith in which all devout souls may unite and yet be free.\" At the time there were some 700 Bahá'ís in the United States.\n\nAmidst her conflict with Janes and new found attachment to the Bahá'í Faith she offered free classes in parallel, even conflicting on time, with Janes' Monsalvat school classes. In 1901 the charge for the entire season of classes with Janes' group was five dollars for the Monsalvat school - in inflation terms that would be $140 in 2014.\n\nSchmidt featured Farmer and Greenacre in a chapter \"Freedom and Self-Surrender\" of a book \"Restless Souls: The Making of American Spirituality\" published by the University of California Press in 2012: \n\nThe struggle at the heart of liberal spirituality ... was over the firmness and fragility of religious identity in the modern world. ... Was the point precisely the \"freedom\" of spiritual seeking? Or was the real point to find a well-marked path and to submit to the disciplines of a new religious authority in order to submerge the self in a larger relationship to God and community? ... Farmer's eventual acceptance of the Baha'i faith or \"the Persian Revelation\" ... discomfited her liberal, universalistic friends, many of whom preferred ongoing inquiry to actually finding one path to follow. For Farmer, the vision that she found in the Baha'i faith of a new age of religious unity, racial reconciliation, gender equality, and global peace was the fulfillment of Transcendentalism's reform impulses and progressivism's millennial dreams. To her skeptical associates, her turn to the Persian Revelation represented a betrayal of their deepest ideals as free-ranging seekers whose vision of a cosmopolitan piety dimmed at the prospect of one movement serving as a singular focus for the universal religion.\n\nNevertheless, Farmer focused the efforts of the institution on Bahá'í themes. In her words in 1902:\n\nMy joy in the Persian Revelation is not that it reveals one of the streams flowing to the great Ocean of Life, Light and Love, but that it is a perfect mirror of that Ocean. What, in Green Acre, was a \"vision\" and a \"hope\" becomes, through it a \"blessed reality\" now. It has illuminated for me every other expression of Truth which I had hitherto known and place my feet on a Rock from which they cannot be moved. And it is the Manifestation of the Fatherhood - Behá'u'lláh (ed - as it was spelled in those days) - who had taught me to look away from even the Greatest and find within the One 'Powerful, Mighty, and Supreme' who is to be the Redeemer of my life. It is a Revelation of Unity such as I had never before found. By means of its Light, as shown the life of the Master Abbas Abdul Beha, I have entered into a joy greater than any I have hitherto known. Green Acre was established as a means to that end and in proportion as well lay aside all spirit of criticism of others and seek only to live the Unity we find, shall we be able to help others to the same divine realization.\nFarmer opened the 1901 session at Greenacre with an address \"The Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh and its relation to the Monsalvat School\" while others gave related talks - \"The New Jerusalem, or the City We Want\", \"Lecture on the Persian Revelation\", and \"Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh.\" Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, among the most scholarly trained Bahá'ís of the time, was there, and his talk was \"Lectures on the Revelations of the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh of Persia\". Ali Kuli Khan, to serve as his translator, arrived in the United States in June. Abu'l-Fadl had accompanied Anton Haddad, the first Bahá'í to live in the United States, on his return trip to America. They had been sent by `Abdu'l-Bahá. The later well known Bahá'í Agnes Baldwin Alexander, later appointed to a high office of the religion, was also there. Esther Davis reports others were there that summer of 1901: she herself, Raffii, the translator at one of Farmer's meetings with `Abdu'l-Bahá, and \"Mother Beecher\" (Ellen Tuller Beecher.) Mary Hanford Ford was there giving one of her talks on literature, and it was at these classes with Abu'l-Fadl it is considered she joined the religion. Out of this the community of Bahá'ís began to form in Boston. Farmer and `Abdu'l-Bahá began an active exchange of letters some twenty-plus of his which were gathered and printed initially in 1909 and then the third edition in 1919.\n\nNevertheless, Farmer did not embark on a heavy handed approach to the presence of the religion and made various compromises to limit its mention and presence, and this fits the Bahá'í teaching about not proselytizing. Her problems did not go away though Janes suddenly died in the fall of 1901. A memorial was held at Greenacre September 6. Fillmore Moore, the director of the Comparative Religion school after Janes, continued the criticism. Others sided with Janes' views including Sanborn and investor Sara Chapman Bull. Meanwhile, a number of eastern teachers presenting their own religions, beyond those of the Bahá'ís themselves, began to appear officially on the programs of Monsalvat School beyond those of academically interested non-believers - Muslim Shehadi Abd-Allah Shehadi in 1901, (and later lived in Providence, RI and had a park named after him,) Buddhist Sister Sanghamitta before she left for India as a new convert, B. S. Kimura of Japan, in 1902, Dharmpala, M. Barukatulah, Baha Premanand in 1904, and C. Jinaradadaen in 1905. Fadl and Khan were profiled along with a review of the religion in 1903.\n\nRalph Waldo Trine wrote a book while at Greenacre and published it in 1903. Additionally music concerts became more common - one of the first was directed by early Bahá'í Edward Kinney. Myron H. Phelps, as part of the transition of the Monsalvat School in his position as director in 1904 and 5 gave a talk on the religion at the 1904 conference following his 1903 book, (though it was later judged to be full of inaccuracies by the Bahá'ís.) Articles based on the work were printed in various journals, some noting Greenacre as well.\n\nIn the face of the changing realms of support Phoebe Hearst was particularly stabilizing for Farmer in 1902 followed by Helen E. Cole in 1906. Another factor in the progress of Greenacre was that steamer boat service from Portsmouth ran regularly in 1895, and the arrival of electric train service in Eliot near the hotel in 1902. Finally in 1902 Farmer initiated a voluntary board - a \"Fellowship\" - \"a sustaining body to help carry forward the Green Acre Conferences of which Sarah J. Farmer is the director.\" Amidst this Farmer's personal home burned to the ground in 1904, and Randolph Bolles, whose sister and niece were well known Bahá'ís, took up residence living there until he died in 1939.\nIn 1904 and 1905 Japanese diplomats visited Greenacre - Yokoyama Taikan, Okakura Kakuzō and Kentok Hori, signing Farmer's autograph book with quotations and drawings for a special tea service and presentations. As an institution Greenacre developed a brief set of \"branch\" associations including one in Washington D.C. in 1905 that began to host peace conferences.\n\nFarmer's connections and determination for peace was such that she was present at the signing of the Portsmouth Peace Treaty and indeed was the only woman on the naval base. The event was remembered in more recent times. Diplomats from the treaty meeting attended functions at Greenacre. Some 300 attended, including a few reporters from Japan, though President Roosevelt and the Russian delegation did not. There were several talks presented on peace including by Minister Takahira and Ali Kuli Khan, who, in a letter to his wife, called it the most important day in the history of Green Acre to that point.\n\nAt the same time a few became interested in the Bahá'í Faith at Green Acre - Harlan Ober and Alfred E. Lunt were Bostonians who joined the religion in the summer of 1905 at Greenacre with Ober learning of the religion first through Lua Getsinger and Alice Buckton, and then Lunt learned of the religion from Ober. Ober had been in shipping interests. Ober and Lunt were leaders in Republican party politics on college campuses, in the era of the Fourth Party System also known as the Progressive Era. About 1905 a formal board to supervise Greenacre called the \"Green Acre Fellowship\" superseded the earlier voluntary one and was arranged with five trustees - Francis Keefe, Aldred E. Lunt, Horatio Dresser, Maria Wilson, and Fillmore Moore, (two were Bahá'í, three not.)\n\nIn the summer of 1906 Stanwood Cobb learned of the religion from a series of articles in the \"Boston Transcript\" and went to Green Acre to learn more. He conversed with Sarah Farmer. Thornton Chase, the \"first occidental Bahá'í\" was also there giving a series of talks. It was on that occasion that Cobb joined the religion. Others were also there giving talks, as well as a meeting of civil war veterans. Ponnambalam Ramanathan's talk that year was featured in the Boston Evening Transcript.\n\nOthers also came to Greenacre. In 1906 among others noted, then Third assistant Secretary of State Huntington Wilson, then retired General O. O. Howard, and Ex-Governor John Green Brady of Alaska all gave talks or hosted meetings. Marsden Hartley took a job as a handyman there and through his association he secured his first exhibition, and was friends with Ober and Lunt.\n\nIn 1907 it was still possible to review things at Greenacre without mentioning Bahá'ís. May Wright Sewall spoke in 1907 at Green Acre. Newspaper coverage began to cover the division and resolution at Greenacre and Farmer managed to keep the reputation of Greenacre high through 1907. Coverage of events occurred in Indianapolis.\n\nBahá'ís sometimes objected that contradictory ideas were presented together while others sometimes objected there was too much Bahá'í coverage. `Abdu'l-Bahá's advise to Farmer was to be more direct about the religion and less supportive of \"mouldered, two thousand years old superstitions\". However, in 1907 other events took hold when, at the age of 60, Farmer fell off a train car in Boston, was injured and never fully recovered. She checked herself into McLean Hospital possibly with a severe injury to her back, when it was a sanitorium.\n\nThe 1908 season went on though with perhaps a reduced schedule. Fillmore Moore pressed her to surrender the right of trustee appointing and issued a pained statement in 1909. Writer Diane Iverson feels Farmer progressed in her hospitalization over a broken heart from the contention over Greenacre. Her care transferred to a private duty nurse in Portsmouth and from there, when she \"became 'too much to handle'\", into the care of early psychologist Dr. Edward Cowles.\n\nFarmer's last public appearance at Green Acre was in 1909. The season was successful with singer Mary Lucas (who had joined the religion in 1905,) and many others. That year the Green Acre Fellowship board voted to rebuild Farmer's residence on the site of her father's home at a cost of $5000.\n\nFarmer changed her will to bequeath Greenacre to the Bahá'ís in the event of her death via an agent of Phoebe Hearst. Her family involuntarily committed her to a mental institution in July 1910, At the same time the by-laws of the institution allowed Farmer to appoint 3 of its 5 trustees, fill vacancies, and remove any of the trustees. All this was just before the centenary of the town of Eliot itself was celebrated including at Greenacre. Meanwhile, early Canadian Bahá'ís, the Magees, began to be regular summer visitors. Among the several presenters and singers were a few Bahá'ís, as well as W. E. B. Du Bois and Swami Paramananda.\n\nA review of the history of Greenacre was published in 1911 in the local paper though there was more description of the alienness of Vivekananda in racist terms. The season had many speakers.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, embarked on travels to the West following release from imprisonment. While the regular season at Greenacre ran in July, he was there from 16 to 23 August.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá referred to renaming it \"Green Acre\" vs \"Greenacre\" in relation to the Bahá'í presence where the founder of the religion is buried - referring to Acre, Syria. Though Farmer herself referred to \"Green Acre\" since 1902 and publicly in 1903 and the formation documents of the Fellowship also used \"Green Acre\" - nevertheless Schmidt notes the change in use as a dividing line among the groups involved. Another name sometimes used is \"Green-acre-on-the-Piscataqua\" dating from 1897 and in modern times. Greenacre itself as a name for the site seems to predate the building of the hotel.\n\nSome five or eight hundred people were there to hear `Abdu'l-Bahá's first talk. The talk was about ways of knowing the truth - he disavowed individual approaches like pure reason, simple authority, individual inspiration, etc., but affirmed:\n\n[A] statement presented to the mind accompanied by proofs which the senses can perceive to be correct, which the faculty of reason can accept, which is in accord with traditional authority and sanctioned by the promptings of the heart, can be adjudged and relied upon as perfectly correct, for it has been proved and tested by all the standards of judgment and found to be complete. \n\nSome repudiated their former beliefs in the sanctity in pure inspiration.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá then visited Farmer at her home.\n\nThat evening `Abdu'l-Bahá addressed the audience at the Eirenion and he wrote a prayer for Farmer. He was in the program speaking August 16, 17, 18, and 19 with Herbert Peckham speaking at most of the remaining schedule of the week. Several of `Abdu'l-Bahá's talks were gathered and published in \"The Promulgation of Universal Peace\" pages 253-275. He also visited the homes of other Bahá'ís - Mason Remey, Carrie and Edward Kinney. At other talks members of the audience wept during his prayers or fainted. He spoke to a girls club camp group by the river on August 19. In a letter he declared Farmer was not insane but experiencing \"religious exultation\" and not suffering from female hysteria as these things were viewed in the day. He met with individuals on other days at Green Acre or the home of Kate Ives, the first woman member of the religion, offering advice and a listening ear to each.\n\nFred Mortensen arrived August 20. Mortensen had been a criminal that fled arrest - his lawyer was Bahá'í Albert Hall of Minnesota from whom he learned of the religion. Riding from Minneapolis to Cleveland he then went on to Green Acre - all by way of Freighthopping. Being introduced in a crowd he was embarrassed at his dirty appearance and then was told to sit down amid the company of people in fine dress and wait but soon `Abdu'l-Bahá returned and began to speak closely with Mortensen His inquiry revealed how Mortensen had traveled. \n\nMortensen had arrived on a day `Abdu'l-Baha had arranged as a feast which was held on \"Mount Monsalvat\" and a large panomramic picture taken. Mortensen is seated farthest on the left. Farmer was also reportedly there led by the hand by `Abdu'l-Bahá across the hill for a few minutes and had a long conversation then publicly pointed out the area would be host to the second Bahá'í Temple for America as well as a university and then praised Farmer openly.\n\nThere followed a few more talks and farewell visits on topics like elimination of prejudice. He was said to characterize the work as \"like that of the exhausted iron worker's apprentice whose master said to him 'Die, but pump.'\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá again visited Farmer and they went on a car tour including a stop to view the shipyard where the treaty had been signed. On the return trip she was not allowed to step off the car when it stopped at Green Acre.\n\nOn the last day at Green Acre he met with individuals and then left stopping at Farmer's hospitalization again this time by carriage - she wept at his feet on that occasion.\n\nWith news that Farmer was visible, if only briefly, her health was celebrated, but the \"more urgent\" appeal by some was to warn people that Green Acre was \"threatened with dire calamity\" in June 1913. A meeting in June seemed to present a calm front, and noted Farmer had previously appointed a guardian while she was indisposed, but the controversy continued in July. What had happened was that the terms of the trust Green Acre had specified authority resting on Farmer as long as she could direct the program. However, in 1913 she could not and a re-arrangement was undertaken by the board allowing a trustee to run the conference and maintain the program - a step feared by the Sanborn and Fillmore affiliated groups. Sanborn published arguments over rights of access. Public rallies were echoed in print in \"Open Court\" and newspapers especially opposing a sense of the religious self-surrender and the foreignness of the Bahá'í Faith. Nevertheless, the board was expanded to nine members and William Randall, shipping businessman and Bahá'í since before 1912, was appointed a trustee, and only one was not a Bahá'í. Scary headlines in various places continued near and far. A program was carried on regardless. Kate Ives, the first Bahá'í of Boston, wrote a letter to the editor inviting Portsmouth residents to a talk on the religion. Debates began about who was Farmer's guardian started in January 1914 with news there was another guardian of her affairs. But Farmer then had been declared sane in February, though the matter was raised again in March when Farmer's family sought to have her guardian appointed by them. Amidst partisan charges in the newspaper the doctor agreed Farmer was sane and competent to run her own affairs in June.\n\nMeanwhile, in May 1914 Alfred E. Lunt was elect to the national leadership of the religion along with William Randall.\n\nThe controversy at Green Acre grew more tense. In July Farmer's mental condition was challenged with complaints and support statements all brought into court again as well as the rightful jurisdiction of two guardians of Farmer raised to superior courts.\n\nThe July 1914 program at Green Acre went on - it included a talk by later Bahá'í Howard Colby Ives which was printed in the newspaper, as well as Alice Breed, Alfred E. Lunt, and others, while others gave protesting talks from the street. The Fellowship board of Green Acre had argued over money ultimately in court which was settled, but the propriety of the expanded elected board was affirmed and required by-law amendments to be not just by the trustees but by the whole group of investors.\n\nEarly Canadian Bahá'í Hariet Magee died at Green Acre in January 1915. Early in 1915 Randall oversaw the electrification of the Inn and driveway. Following the Bahá'í participation at the Panama–Pacific International Exposition in spring 1915, Lunt again served on the national board of Bahá'ís in the United States; this time as president, with Ober as secretary. Bahá'ís then began to buy several neighboring properties to Green Acre. Still Farmer was not released from hospitalization despite several rounds of judging her sane and fit to mind her own affairs and she had been treated with drugs and electroshock therapy. Now Bahá'ís began to plan for Farmer's release - primarily William Randall, Urbain Ledoux, and Montford Mills - and tried various approaches. Ultimately they gathered a chief of police and a judge to accompany a court order with some intercepting the doctor physically and others carried Farmer to a waiting car to effect her freedom. A cousin of Farmer, Helen Green, also participated and recorded her testimony retained in the Bahá'í national archives. Randall and Ober and others were visible at Green Acre a week later. Farmer managed to have her next birthday in comparative freedom, quietly. `Abdu'l-Bahá praised the work freeing Farmer. There was a session that summer at Green Acre.\n\nThe case was appealed questioning jurisdiction in the argument over guardians in late 1915. The courts settled the case over guardianship against Sanborn's group in 1916. Meanwhile, the donation of Helen Cole in 1902 was set for building what became to be called the Fellowship House constructed in the middle 1916. Farmer was interviewed in the \"Boston Post\" in August during which the reporter had an experience he couldn't explain, (though there also several typos in the article and mis-labeling), and Farmer then died in November, while walking in her family cemetery. There was a guard to protect her body lest it be taken. Sanborn called for an official inquiry of her death. The eulogy was read by Kate Ives and attending were Lunt, Ober and Randall among others of Boston and the area - Ober was noted an officer of Green Acre along with Lunt. With Farmer and her Will supporting the Bahá'ís the case ended. The transcendentalists school were, to put it mildly, upset, as were the supporters of the academic school. The Bahá'ís inherited the $25k in debt too. Though at the time the newspaper coverage was dismissive over her work, modern coverage noted \"She anticipated the peace movement, women's liberation and the New Age culture.\" Farmer's contribution was considered a \"singularly important\" to the development of Bahá'í schools. Posthumously, Shoghi Effendi, later head of the religion, appointed her as one of the Disciples of `Abdu'l-Bahá. Bahá'ís noted her individual service as raising a status of organization vs institutionalization, setting a place for the rise of some of Americas' most active supporters of the religion, and the very nature of that place. However, liberal religious idealization noticed that a democratic system had awarded Green Acre to sectarian view. It is true that before 1900 there were about a half dozen Bahá'ís in New England and that most of the growth of the religion in the region is attributed to the work done at Green Acre.\n\nThere is no record of a summer session in 1916. Ober wrote a letter to the editor about the religion and Green Acre earlier in August.\n\nThe 1917 Spring national convention of Bahá'ís with meetings held at Green Acre and Boston. In 1917 William Randall was again elected to the national board of the religion and that year he was elected as president of the board and Harlan Ober was elected to the board as well. Among the speakers on the summer schedule at Green Acre in 1917 were Horace Holley, Randall, Albert R. Vail, Louis G. Gregory, Eshteal Ebn Kalanter, Lunt, and Albert Hall. Randall spoke at Green Acre on \"The mission of Green Acre\" and another \"Talks of `Abdu'l-Bahá\" as well as others by Frederick Strong on several topics as well as Edward Getsinger.\n\nThe military discussed taking over the Green Acre property for its workmen in 1918. Randall was again elected to the national board of the religion, this time as treasurer, in 1918. Though the Inn did not open there was still a summer session with James F. Morton Jr. and a national Esperanto conference being held. Martha Root attended. And Mr and Mrs. Ober, Lunt, and May Maxwell were noted in the services for the funeral program for a close friend of Farmer who died. Randall along with Juliet Thompson, May Maxwell and Albert Vail, debated the position of Green Acre on whether to raise the Peace Flag and ultimately decided it should be raised. Prayers were said at Green Acre to end World War I.\n\nRandall was on Bahá'í pilgrimage after the war, in 1919 and `Abdu'l-Bahá encouraged him to continue the work of Farmer at Green Acre. Randall served as the administrator of Green Acre from 1919 to 1929 when he died. Harlan Ober was at the 1919 national convention of Bahá'ís was held in New York. The 1919 convention was a major event in the religion because it was also the place the Tablets of the Divine Plan of `Abdu'l-Bahá were published.\n\nTraveling teacher of the religion Fádil Mazandarání gave several talks at Green Acre in 1920. Randall was elected to the national board again in 1920 as treasurer and addressed the convention. Randall was listed as the contact for announcing events and reserving rooms at Green Acre in 1920 by Albert Vail.\n\nSiegfried Schopflocher, later to become another Hand of the Cause, joined the religion at Green Acre in 1921 and helped improve the property. A Tea House and gift shop were established. Paul Haney and May Maxwell were also known at the facility in 1921. A major memorial for the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá was held in 1922. Otherwise there is no known program in 1921. In 1922 a program was carried on by Louis Gregory, Albert Watson, Juliet Putnam, George Latimer, Mr. and Mrs. Aldo Randagger, Mrs. E. Boye, W H Randall. Randall was appointed to the supervisory board of the Bahá'í periodical \"Star of the West\" in 1922, and contributed an article on Green Acre. In 1923 he was noted as chairman of the board of Green Acre while continuing as treasurer for the newly designated National Spiritual Assembly. A general renovation was begun in 1921 and completed in 1924 - repairs, painting, and clearing away scrub growth, etc., was done. A program went on in 1923 with Fádil Mazandarání giving a talk, among the program that summer. The \"Eirenion\" burned down in 1924, right before the summer season of Green Acre was held with an international theme and presence and the first appearance of Glenn A. Shook, professor of Wheaton College (Massachusetts).\n\nIn 1925 there were a number of developments. First the national convention was held at Green Acre. Famous African-American leader Alain Locke, a Bahá'í since 1918, spoke at the 1925 convention. Second, the national election was held under new rules fully endorsed by the head of the religion. That year a local assembly was elected for the first time in Eliot. And lastly it was announced the administrative offices of the religion would be run from Green Acre. The members of the Eliot local assembly were - Horace and Doris Holley, Kate Ives, Ivy Drew Edwards, Marion Jack, Colonel Henry and Mary Culver, Ella Roberts and Phillip Marangella. Lunt was noted on the board of trustees of Green Acre. Bahá'í Mary Lucas who had performed at Green Acre several times held her professional school for singers there.\n\nWhile the history of persecution of Bahá'ís in Persia goes back some many years the first known newspaper mention in the area was in 1926. That summer the program was \"Green Acre Summer School of World Unity\" in August. But the National Assembly acquired direct authority of the Green Acre establishment. At the same time the national assembly began a \"Plans of Unified Action\" process that included a plan to centralize all Bahá'í funding of projects through one national fund including Green Acre resulting in a learning process for the assembly and the community in maintaining priorities in a nationwide context - a process that extended into the 1930s during the Great Depression. Education reformer Stanwood Cobb established \"Mast Cove Camp\" at Eliot that year too.\n\nIn 1927 Green Acre hosted its first Race Amity Convention in mid-July following an initiative push by Shoghi Effendi, then head of the religion, in April. The first convention had been held in Washington D.C. in 1921 followed by a lapse, and this 1927 convention was arranged by a committee appointed by the US Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly - Agnes Parsons, Coralie F. Cook, Louis Gregory, Zia Bagdadi, Alain Locke, Elizabeth G. Hopper and Isabel Ives, (though Locke appears on the program he did not actually speak at the convention.) Prominent contributors at the convention included Devere Allen of The World Tomorrow, Samuel McComb of the Emmanuel Movement, Rev. William Stafford Jones and recent pilgrims Edwina Powell and S. E. J. Oglesby. According to Louis Gregory he had to chair one of the sessions \"so that the affair would not be too one-sided\" in the face of low participation despite \"a little under-current of bad feeling\" among some Bahá'ís. This proved the first of a series of annual race amity conferences. However, the event turned out to be so successful that money from the national budget to support the event was in fact covered by generous individuals caught up in the event and instead the allotment of about $400,(alittle over $5400 in 2014 dollars,) was returned to be contributed to the costs for building the American Bahá'í Temple. There was a peace program the following August.\n\nThe success of Green Acre as a Bahá'í institution began to inspire other regional schools for the religion: first came Bosch Bahá'í School becoming more formally a Bahá'í school in 1927 and another in 1931 at Louhelen Bahá'í School.\n\nThe pace of race amity meetings continued nationwide for Bahá'ís into 1928 when it was again held at Green Acre in August. Randall also took part in it. Perhaps Randall's final appearance was August 1928 at a commemoration of the visit of `Abdu'l-Bahá to Green Acre. Randall died Feb 11, 1929. Meanwhile, in 1928 Ober gave a talk in Brooklyn, and Grace hosted an evening social at Green Acre. That year the official board of Green Acre, the \"Fellowship\", formally deeded Green Acre to a trustees appointed by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States. Lunt served on the national assembly that year.\n\nThe regular program at Green Acre ran in 1930 with talks and services by Albert Vail, Glenn Shook, Stanwood Cobb, Genevieve Coy, Doris Gregory, Allen McDaniel, A B Herst, Mrs Willard McKay, and Louis Gregory. A third Race Amity Convention was also held at Green Acre that year despite the onset of The Great Depression and among which officers of the national Urban League assisted. The 1931 summer conference included a talk by William Leo Hansberry of Howard University discussing the science behind recognizing \"Negro civilizations in Ancient Africa\". In the 1930s Genevieve Coy directed studies at Green Acre and more formal classes were undertaken than lectures - on languages and Bahá'í texts for example. Fundraising at Green Acre was undertaken to aid in the construction of the Bahá'í House of Worship (Wilmette, Illinois). By 1932 both Farmer and Randall were noted as Disciples of `Abdu'l-Bahá. The 1932 season was noted in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The Ober family purchased a home near Green Acre in 1932 in the midst of the Great Depression, and Harlan soon was reading on the radio at Portsmouth's WHEB station weekly after noon from spring into the fall from 1933 into 1935 (with occasional gaps). Grace spoke at the Portsmouth chapter of Hadassah and Ober was also visible at other events - a funeral, and several series of talks in 1933. In 1933 he also gave a program series on \"Psychology and Life\" for Alpha Beta sorority and a ladies club. The regular summer season at Green Acre took place. Glenn Shook's talk was profiled in the local paper. And a \"Race Amity Conference\" was held too, following which Gregory expressed satisfaction with the now long history of Race Amity meetings at Green Acre despite the economic troubles during the Great Depression.\n\nA Race Amity Convention was held at a time when few others were being held across the country in August 1934. It proved to be the last in the 1930s. In 1936 the national assembly had noted that race amity meetings had sometimes emphasized race differences rather than unity and reconciliation when held at a national level and instead asked local communities to provide meetings which a few communities continued to do later into the 1930s. In November Ober gave a talk in Eliot for the Christian Endeavor Society, and Zeta Alpha Men's Club of a Baptist church. The family wintered in New York to February 1935, and their college student daughter visited them in the summer of 1935. There was also smaller race amity conference that year as part of the general session. It hosted week long course on \"Racial likenesses and differences: the scientific evidence and the Bahá'í Teachings\" by Genevieve Coy and there were individual talks by Coy, Glenn Shook, Standwood Cobb, Lunt and Samuel Chiles Mitchell, past president of the University of South Carolina (1909–1913).\n\nOber was a substitute speaker in January 1936 at Green Acre, and lead a funeral there. The Summer schedule at Green Acre went on including Montford Mills, Louis G. Gregory, Manses L. Sato, Dorothy Beecher Baker, Mary Collison, Hishmat Alai, and featuring Stanwood Cobb. Then there was another \"Race Amity\" session during the summer session of the school. The structure of the classes and offerings at Green Acre further transitioned from summer conferencing to focused classes that year too noting participation by Horace Holley, Edward H. Adams, Louis G. Gregory with music by Evelyn Loveday, sessions by Mrs. M. B. Trotman, Maxwell Miller, Mrs. Bishp Lewis, Ludmilla Bechtold, Theodore C. A. McCardy, and more music by Martha Boutwell.\n\nAfter serving on the national assembly off an on into the 1930s Lunt died from an illness in 1937 and Shoghi Effendi asked the entire national assembly to assemble at his gravesite on his behalf in Boston. That year a Hall was built replacing the burned down Eirenion a decade earlier and the fourth floor of the Inn was renovated.\n\nGrace Ober died immediately after giving a talk at the Chicago Bahá'í national convention in April 1938 - Harlan was then serving on the national spiritual assembly after traveling in Louisville Kentucky. Harlan gave the next talk at Green Acre that July 1938, and the August schedule for Green Acre took place. Ober then toured universities in December, and served on the Green Acre summer committee for the school in 1939. The 1939 season at Green Acre went on with among the teachers Louis Gregory, and Horace Holley and officers of the program committee including Mrs. Harold Bowman, Ober, Lorna Tasker and Marjorie Wheeler; and there was a focus on discussing international problems.\n\nAlso known as Mrs. Harold Bowditch, Nancy was the daughter of George de Forest Brush who was active in Dublin, New Hampshire as well as Europe. Though she was among those who had met `Abdu-l-Bahá at Green Acre her life changed with the unexpected death of her husband shortly after and she and her new child soon moved away - it wasn't until she came across the religion again in 1927 and heard Randal speak that she considered the religion. This may have been an event the Boston Bahá'í community hosted called a \"World Unity Conference\" as part of a series sponsored by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States. A report of the conference was published in the \"Boston Evening Transcript\". Randall helped organize and spoke at it. She then credits Randall, Louise Drake Wright and her sister Mrs. George Nelson as aiding her inquiry into the religion while she read books like Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era. She officially joined the religion in 1929. She was visible in the 1930 Race Amity Convention held at Green Acre, and left on Bahá'í pilgrimage in late March 1931 with her then 19 yr old daughter. They spent three weeks in the area of Haifa and left by way of Jerusalem taking in Christian paths of pilgrimage. She then attended the 1931 national convention reporting on events in Boston as the chair of the Boston Assembly.\n\nBowditch repeated her activity at the Green Acre Race Amity conference in 1934 including an event at her home. In 1936 she assisted in \"World Order magazine\" publications with some cover art. In 1937 she offered a talk for the summer program at Green Acre that also dedicated a new hall. In 1938 she took up residence in a summer studio at Green Acre and ran a program on art for the school. There is a break in visible activity in 1940 and her father died April 24, 1941, but she was again involved at Green Acre in July 1941 for a pageant. After another year gap in activity she was on the centenary committee of 1943–44, to commemorate the founding of the religion in 1844. In Portsmouth she offered a program at the Bahá'í library about her pilgrimage, as well as at Green Acre. She was on the maintenance committee for Green Acre across 1945–1947. In Teaneck, New Jersey she offered a program for youth on dramatizations of the religion, and her poem \"The Song of Tahirih\" was published in July 1947 \"World Order\" magazine. In 1948 she was listed as the corresponding secretary of the Bahá'í group of Brookline, Massachusetts, and offered a program in nearby Hamilton, Massachusetts. Her mother died in 1949. In 1950 she published a play \"The desert tent: An Easter play in three episodes\".\n\nIn 1953 Bowditch was noted helping a Portsmouth community pageant, and her family moved to Peterborough, New Hampshire in the south of the state in 1959, attended the 1963 Bahá'í World Congress with her husband and a granddaughter, and in 1965 Bowditch is pictured on the first local Spiritual Assembly of Brookline, the local administrative organization of the religion.\n\n1972 she was noted for a Portsmouth Friends of the Library, spoke at Meriden Connecticut on her memory of meeting `Abdu'l-Bahá, and aided in costumes for play at Keene State College.\n\nShe died May 1, 1979 and a posthumously published memoir, \"The Artist's Daughter: Memoirs 1890–1979\" was printed with the aide of her grandchildren.\n\nRegular hosts at Green Acre were Bahiyyih Randall and Harry Ford along with Mildred Mottahedeh in the 1940s. Louis Gregory and Curtis Kelsey led a race unity workshop at Green Acre in August 1940 and there was a focus on religion and science in a series of talks as well as individual talks. During the tenure of Randall and Ford, Randall gathered historical materials both at Green Acre and from the Bahá'í national archives, the fourth floor of the Inn was renovated, and a new separate building, Baha'i Hall, was built.\n\nIn 1941 a trusteeship was created for Green Acre for the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada - its members were Allen McDaniel, Dorothy Baker, Roy Wilhelm, Horace Holley, Siegfried Scholpflocher, Leroy Ioas, Amelia Collings, Louis Gregory, Harlan Ober. The Bahá'ís officially announced the new name of the institution as the \"Green Acre Bahá'í School\". The extended program of events carried on with wide attendance. That year the site also began to host annual race unity conferences - that year having talks by Louis Gregory, Roy Wilkins of the NAACP and \"The Crisis\", Matthew Bullock and Dorothy Baker.\n\nIn July 1942 Helen Archambault, William Kenneth and Robert Christian, Harry Ford, Ober and Cobb all gave talks at the summer session of Green Acre, followed by a study class series by William Kenneth, Roberta Christian, and Ober. Paul Haney married Helen Margery Wheeler there in 1942. Shook's talk at Green Acre in July 1942 was profiled in the local paper, and his presentations went on into September along with other events. A number of prominent Bahá'ís were in a Green Acre \"Race Amity\" conference in August 1942 - Dorothy Beecher Baker, Matthew Bollock, Ali Kuli Khan, Mabel Jenkins, Harlan Ober, Lorna Tasker, Louis Gregory, Doris McKay, Hillery Thorne, and Harriet Kelsey were all on the speaker list. Among the other presenters were Phyllis Weatley and James Weldon Johnson. Ober continued at a general session at Green Acre a few days later.\n\n1943 was a year of race riots around the United States - the Beaumont race riot of 1943 of mid-June, the Detroit race riot of 1943 of late June, and the Harlem riot of 1943 of early August. Profiles of the religion's teaching of race unity had been highlighted by Alice Simmons Cox in \"The New York Age\" in the winter-spring Dorothy Beecher Baker had a talk series including the subject of race unity in Rochester, NY, in late July just before the Green Acre summer session and Mrs. Charles Witt talk on race unity over in Los Angeles, CA. Ober was one among several present in a August series of talks at Green Acre - Mary Coristine, Philip Sprague, Lorraine Welsh, Lorna Tasker, Mary McClendon, Gertrude Atkinson, Louis Gregory, Horace Holley, Mrs Ali Kuli Khan, Hesmat Ala'i, Maud Mickle, and Mabel Jenkins all contributed on topics of equality of women and unity of humanity, with the largest attendance of the season, partly from a nationwide call for the prominence of the topic, while the late August session also featured a review of the life of Muhammad. The National assembly had set in motion a series of efforts in anticipation of the Centenary of the Declaration of the Báb, saying the situation of race in the country \"demands our devoted attention and endeavor throughout September and October, the fundamental teaching of the Faith, its most challenging principle, its swift healing antidote for the ills of a divided world.\" There was a specific attempt to reach the public, and on the subject of the oneness of mankind - race unity. The conference achieved some newspaper publicity, and there was indeed a breadth of many talks by Bahá'ís into November. Among them were Dorothy Beecher Baker, Louis G. Gregory, and Alain Locke.\n\nThe next summer, of 1944, had its own crisis. There was a series by managed by Ober and Nancy Bowditch in early July, but pleas came from the National Assembly that Tera Cowart-Smith drop her plans in Atlanta and arrange to be at Green Acre to take over the management of the summer session. She reports great difficulty in deciding to go in the face of having to drop her clients, and in getting there, and many privations figuring out how to feed the guests. Mildred Mottahedeh was there assisting her through the period and 75 guests came. The public news covered her at Green Acre. The race unity meeting had Genevieve Coy, Mildred Mottahedeh, Ober, Gregory, Lydia Martin and Sarah Martin (Pereira), and Matthew Bullock (who himself recalled the bitter disappointment of integrated service in the military and returning home to a segregated society.) The national assembly advertised for managers for Green Acre in November. Ober also gave a later series at the Portsmouth Bahá'í Center late in the year and into spring 1945. Sessions of near one hundred people ran in the 1945 race unity meeting and in 1946 a week long study was done on \"The Negro in American Life\". Gregory called it \"the most wonderful season in its history, save that of 1912 when His Holidness `Abdu'l-Bahá Himself taught here.\"\n\nWinter season classes were begun in 1947 by Emanuel (Manny) and Janet Reimer in their cottage \"on campus\" which grew to be housed in the main \"Fellowship Hall\". Though talks were held in June 1949, during the rest of 1949 and 1950 the executive decision was made by then head of the religion Shoghi Effendi to close Green Acre School for two years of \"austerity\" while the final push to finish the Bahá'í House of Worship was under way. A program for World Religion Day did take place in January 1950 over in Portsmouth with Bahá'í support and others Shook was elected chair of the Eliot assembly in 1950 - the other members were Lucien McComb, Mrs McComb, Thorton Pearsall, Vincent Minutti, Mrs Delbert Cress, Mrs Dudley Blakely, Mrs John Marlow, Emaniel Reimer - and other smaller events took place.\n\nGreen Acre Bahá'í School was reopened in 1951 thanks in part to youth groups working on getting the facility ready.\n\nLouis G. Gregory went to Green Acre in the fall of 1911 for the first time - it was just a few months after his return from Bahá'í pilgrimage. In 1912 he married Louise Matthews. He was next known at Green Acre in 1917 when he gave a talk \"Prophetic proofs of the Baha'i Revelation.\" In 1920 the Gregories were able to spend some ten days together after many months each traveling in different directions for the religion amidst a time where inter-racial marriage was socially troubled and he was \"so onerous and irritable, so unlike himself\" that his wife was in despair over his condition - nevertheless he set out on the longest of his teaching tours the following year. From then on most summers they were able to be in the environment at Eliot and it became their \"home base\". In 1922, while a member of the National Spiritual Assembly, he chaired the summer program and gave two talks at Green Acre - \"Prayer and Praise\", and \"The Holy Mariner\". They were there in 1923. He attended the organizing 1925 national convention held at Green Acre. The 1926 summer program at Green Acre had Gregory as co-director with Albert Vail and Howard MacNutt. They were there in June 1929 before the Green Acre program started. Like many leaders in the religion, the Gregories began to serve over seas for extended periods in the 1930s - Louise in Europe at first and then the both of them in Haiti. The Gregorys returned to Green Acre in 1938 but wintered in Cambridge.\n\nIn 1940 the Gregories bought a different summer cottage in Eliot, and a winter apartment in Portsmouth. A small community held Nineteen Day Feast in September 1941. Gregory served several years on the Green Acre school committee itself in the 1940s and loved to work with children's classes. From 1946, now that Louise was over eighty years old and less independent, Gregory stayed more at home than traveling the country as he had done for decades. Both his race and their inter-racial marriage seemed well accepted in Eliot. Friends often saw them on the porch or at events in Green Acre and their garden was doing well at home.\n\nIn December 1948 Gregory suffered a stroke a couple months after returning from a funeral for a friend and between him and his wife, whose health also declined, began to stay closer to home. His recovery was more than the doctor predicted when a couple months later he had regained his hand-writing though slanted. By the summer of 1949 he was again carrying on an active correspondence. In particular Gregory carried on correspondence with U.S. District Court Judge Julius Waties Waring and his wife in 1950–51 who was involved in Briggs v. Elliott even while Green Acre was closed for austerity.\n\nGregory died aged seventy-seven on July 30, 1951. He is buried at Eliot and just a few days later during the memorial service a telegram arrived stating he was appointed as one of the Hands of the Cause, the highest office open to individuals in the religion, by then head of the religion, Shoghi Effendi.\n\nOber stayed home in the summer of 1951, and officiated at the funeral of Louis G. Gregory, which was followed up with a series of talks at Green Acre, as well as other opportunities. For a few years the public mentions of Ober are a couple funerals he oversaw, but in 1956 he gave a series of talks.\n\nIn 1952 the room `Abdu'l-Bahá's used while staying there was set aside for prayers and meditation.\n\nLegal cases began to question the roll of Green Acre as a religious institution and its status for tax reasons. In 1954 the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine ruled that the Green Acre Bahá'í Institute was entitled to tax exemption as a charitable institution. Horace Holley made public some material on the legal timeline of Green Acre in 1955 sharing information affecting its tax status. Nathan Rutstein lived at Green Acre in the summer of 1955 with his new wife before getting into television production and appointed as a Auxiliary Board member for the religion.\n\nIn the 1960s, the first full-time staff of the school and the first year-round live-in caretaker were hired - Stuart Rhode and Emma Rice. The first full-time property manager, Edwin Miller was hired in the 1970s. Emma Rice, former Knight of Bahá'u'lláh for Sicily, became the resident caretaker of the Fellowship House. The tax status of Green Acre Baha'i Institute was contested in 1963 and the same court removed the tax exemption, based on a 1957 law limiting exemptions to institutions that primarily serve residents of Maine. Richard Grover grew into the first full-time administrator of Green Acre in the 1980s. The administration of Green Acre transferred to Ray Labelle around 1990 and then James and Jeannine Sacco in 1995-96. Later, in 1997, the US Supreme Court declared the Maine law unconstitutional reverting the tax status of Green Acre. Green Acre became recognized as \"paradigmatic of a Bahá'í institution\".\n\nA variety of individuals visited in the 1960 and into the 1970s in addition to regular presenters. The 1960 session included Firuz Kazemzadeh. A Pennacook Indian, Gerard Morin aka Little Bishop, presented on local Indian culture in Green Acre in 1966. Hand of the Cause Ali Akbar Furutan visited in 1969. Hand of the Cause William Sears visited in 1978 with his wife Marguerite Reimer Sears as part of establishing the Reimer award for service to Green Acre. Its first recipient was Emma Rice.\n\nIt was also during the 1960s that the first Bahá'í studies of the history of Sarah Farmer, Green Acre, and Monsalvat took place by Douglas Martin and H.T.D. Rost. This was extended in the 1980s with occasional lectures entitled Farmer Family Memorial Lectures began, while Kenneth Walter published a polemical compilation of the rise and fall of transcendentalism at Green Acre in 1980 recalling the vehemence against the Bahá'ís. The Association for Bahá'í Studies held its first regional conference at Green Acre in 1983. Sessions began to be held preserving Green Acre history and in 1986 the National Spiritual Assembly made the restoration of the Sarah Farmer Inn a goal for the Bahá'ís of the Northeast. In 1989 local chapters of peace groups offered programs at Green Acre, and centennial observances began starting with its inception in 1890. Restoration of the Sarah Farmer Inn continued for many years as funds became available and was finally completed in summer of 1994, the centennial of the first Greenacre Meeting entitled \"100 Years for Peace\" commemorated with a post office cancelation and some 1500 guests (greater than the population of the town of Eliot when the site opened.) Some 300 attended program of the Vedanta Society to commemorate Swami Vivekenda's presence in 1894 with a plaque along with publishing a collection of poetry, \"Voice of Lovers\". Bahá'í academies and training sessions by the Bahá'í International Community office at the United Nations were held in the 1990s.\n\nIn 1998 the institution of the \"Black Men's gathering\" began annual meetings at Green Acre Bahá'í School after being hosted at Louis Gregory Bahá'í Institute and other places until it ended in 2011. Each year the group walked in procession to Gregory's gravesite. Green Acre Bahá'í School has also been home to the annual \"Turning 15 Academy\"/\"Badasht Prep Academy\"/\"Badasht Academy\" (variously named and often named after the Conference of Badasht) since the summer of 1999 as a week-long intensive study of Bahá'í history and religious practices.\n\nIn 2000 Ruhi Institute courses were offered. Observances memorializing the deaths in 9-11 were held in cooperation with the Eliot public library and the local congregational church. In 2002 the old Baha'i Hall was taken down and replaced the same year with the Curtis and Harriet Kelsey Center which featured an auditorium for 220 seats and seven classrooms. Noted scholar on Khalil Gibran, Suheil Bushrui spoke at Green Acre Bahá'í school in 2003 giving a two-day course on `Abdu'l-Bahá's teachings on peace. Renovations and expansion at Green Acre as part of an investment across all the Bahá'í schools was initiated in 2000 under the name \"Kingdom Project\" and finished in 2005.\n\nIn 2004 a commemorative peace garden was established at the School and the property of the home of the Gregory's was added to the holdings of Green Acre Bahá'í School in Eliot.\n\nIn 2005 the centenary of the Portsmouth Peace Treaty and Farmer's involvement was established in a Sarah Farmer Peace Award by the Bahá'ís of Eliot and has been given out annually and Ryozo Kato, Japanese Ambassador to the United States in 2005, made an official visit to Green Acre commemorating the treaty. The events were held included re-enactments for Theodore Roosevelt, Ida B. Wells, Thomas Edison, William Jennings Bryan, and Fred Harvey as well as Sarah Farmer herself, along with contributions from speakers, writers and artists were held at Green Acre Bahá'í School itself as well as a meeting of the Association of Bahá'í Studies of the US and Canada.\n\nThe School also continued to network with the area chapter of the NAACP.\n\nIn 2007 sessions included the sitting Chair for Peace from the University of Maryland, Dr. John Grayzel, gave a class with the chair of the Portsmouth Peace Treaty Anniversary Committee.\n\nThe Eliot 2010 bicentenary was celebrated and there was a play at Green Acre as part of it. Green Acre was also reviewed in line with other movements of the turn of the 20th century in a documentary about peace activism related to the Treaty of Portsmouth and was premiered on the campus in 2012 during the centenary of `Abdu'l-Bahá's visit. Four more buildings were dedicated after a four-year construction project: the Harry Randall Guest House, Louise and Louisa Gregory Cottage, Mildred and Rafi Mottahedeh Cottage, and Emma Rice Cottage replacing four of the older cottages on the property. In Washington D. C. a commemorative tour recalled Stanwood Cobb's association with Green Acre and Eliot.\n\nDon Tennant appreciated living in the atmosphere of honesty at Green Acre while he wrote \"Spy the lie\", published in 2012, while his wife worked at Green Acre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47028863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47028863", "title": "Half-widow", "text": "Half-widow\n\nHalf-widow is a term given to Kashmiri women whose husbands have disappeared and were still missing during the ongoing conflict in Kashmir. These women are called \"half-widows\" because they have no idea whether their husbands are dead or alive.\n\nThousands of husbands in Kashmir disappeared during the conflict. .\n\nMost of the half-widows have not remarried due to doubt about their husband's fate and a lack of consensus among Muslim scholars on the issue. In Kashmir, a group of religious scholars issued a fatwa on the 26 of December 2013 saying that half-widows are allowed to remarry after a waiting period of four years.\n"}
{"id": "182880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182880", "title": "Hellblazer", "text": "Hellblazer\n\nHellblazer (also known as John Constantine, Hellblazer) is an American contemporary horror comic book series, originally published by DC Comics, and subsequently by the Vertigo imprint since March 1993 when the imprint was introduced. Its central character is the streetwise magician John Constantine, who was created by Alan Moore and Stephen R. Bissette, and first appeared as a supporting character in \"Swamp Thing\" (vol. 2) #37 (June 1985), during that creative team's run on that title. \"Hellblazer\" had been published continuously since January 1988, and was Vertigo's longest running title, the only remaining publication from the imprint's launch. In 2013, the series concluded with issue 300, and has been replaced by a DC Universe title, \"Constantine\". It was then relaunched in 2016 with the title \"The Hellblazer\" as part of \"DC Rebirth\", restoring the character to his original cast, tone and setting, before the series' cancellation in 2018. Well known for its political and social commentary, the series has spawned a film adaptation, television show, novels, and multiple spin-offs and crossovers.\n\nThe series was the longest-running and one of the most successful titles of DC's Vertigo imprint, and was the stepping stone for many British writers. Notable writers who have contributed to the series include Jamie Delano, Garth Ennis, Eddie Campbell, Paul Jenkins, Warren Ellis, Grant Morrison, Neil Gaiman, Brian Azzarello, Darko Macan, Mike Carey, Andy Diggle,Robert Venditti, Peter Milligan, Jeff Lemire, Ray Fawke, Ming Doyle, James Tynion IV, Simon Oliver, Tim Seeley, Ian Rankin and Si Spencer . \"Hellblazer\" was one of the first modern occult detective fiction works and heavily influenced the genre to come.\n\nAfter favorable reader reaction to John Constantine's appearances in the comic book series \"Swamp Thing\", where he had been introduced by Alan Moore during his authorship of the title, the character was given his own comic book series in 1988. The series was intended to bear the title \"Hellraiser\", but this title was revised before publication due to the contemporaneous release of Clive Barker's unrelated film of the same name. Initial writer Jamie Delano was, in his own words, \"fairly ambivalent\" about the change of title.\n\nThe initial creative team was writer Jamie Delano and artist John Ridgway, with Dave McKean supplying distinctive painted and collage covers. Delano introduced a political aspect to the character, about which he stated: \"...generally I was interested in commenting on 1980s Britain. That was where I was living, it was shit, and I wanted to tell everybody.\" The book, originally published as a regular DC Comics title, became a Vertigo title with the imprint's launch in March 1993 (issue #63 of the series). In October 2011, it was announced that this would join DC titles in being published digitally on the same day as its physical release, starting in January 2012.\n\nMany writers had lengthy runs on the series, such as Garth Ennis and Mike Carey, who respectively had the second- and third-longest runs on the book, (only behind Peter Milligan). Other writers who wrote for the series include Paul Jenkins, Warren Ellis, Brian Azzarello, Neil Gaiman, Grant Morrison, Denise Mina, and Andy Diggle.\n\nNumerous artists worked on the series as well, such as John Ridgway (the original series artist), Simon Bisley, Mark Buckingham, Richard Corben, Steve Dillon, Marcelo Frusin, Jock, David Lloyd, Leonardo Manco, and Sean Phillips. Cover artists included Dave McKean (who designed the first run of the series' covers), Tim Bradstreet (who designed the most), Glenn Fabry, Kent Williams, David Lloyd, and Sean Phillips.\n\n\"Hellblazer\" was set in a contemporary world, albeit a world of magic and supernatural conflict behind the scenes. Although the official setting of the series was the DC Universe, well-known DC characters were rarely seen or mentioned. However, some DC Comics characters—most notably the fringe supernatural characters such as Zatanna, the Phantom Stranger, Shade, the Changing Man, Dream of the Endless, and the Swamp Thing made appearances.\n\nJohn Constantine, the main character of \"Hellblazer\", was portrayed as a kind of confidence man and occult detective who did morally questionable things, arguably for the greater good. He usually triumphed through guile, deceit, and misdirection, but often made more enemies in the process than he defeated. Indeed, it was a common theme in the book that Constantine was unable to effect any lasting change or enjoy unequivocal victories. While sometimes striving for the good of mankind, Constantine was often manipulative and a dangerous person to have as a friend, as the lives and souls of those around him became perilously involved in his misadventures. He took pains to protect himself from direct attacks, but his friends and relatives were often endangered in order to strike at him. The spirits of deceased friends haunted him, individually or as an entourage of ghosts.\n\nConstantine made appearances in other comic book titles, such as \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", \"Infinite Crisis\", \"Green Arrow\", \"Green Lantern\", \"The Sandman\", \"Lucifer\", and \"Shade, the Changing Man\". He was a recurring supporting character in both \"Swamp Thing\" and \"The Books of Magic\" throughout their numerous incarnations. Some attempts to use the character in other superhero or family-friendly comics were altered due to editorial mandate, such as \"Gregori Eilovotich Rasputin\" in \"Firestorm\" and \"Captain Atom\" (who refers to Constantine as \"an impertinent bumbler in England\"). Grant Morrison created \"Willoughby Kipling\" for \"Doom Patrol\" after being refused Constantine by DC, changing his appearance to that of Richard E. Grant in \"Withnail and I\", following which Phil Foglio was forced to create \"Ambroise Bierce\" in \"Stanley and His Monster\", having been refused both Constantine \"and\" Willoughby Kipling.\n\nJohn Constantine was reintroduced into the DC Universe in 2011, initially in the \"Brightest Day\" crossover event title \"Search for the Swamp Thing\", and in the ongoing The New 52 title \"Justice League Dark\".\n\nHaving previously worked on \"D.R. & Quinch\" for \"2000 AD\", a title made popular by John Constantine's creator Alan Moore, Delano was selected to start the character's first run in his own comic by then editor Karen Berger in 1988. Delano's run was characterised by his political satire, taking on late 1980s and 1990s tropes such as with city financiers being literal demons, and Constantine meeting with Freemasons from the Houses of Parliament. He also had environmentalist issues crop up, especially in \"The Fear Machine\" (issues #15–22), where John fell in with a travelling community of environmental activists. Indeed, editor Karen Berger noted on Delano's departure the irony that his final issue was handed in the week that Margaret Thatcher was forced out of office.\n\nThere were five main storylines in the run. The first, collected as \"Original Sins\", deals with John travelling to America to exorcise a demon, Mnemoth, and investigate a strange cult known as Damnation's Army, crossing paths with a demon called Nergal (from whom he gains demon blood), and having to be responsible for killing an old friend, Gary Lester, and betraying another, called Zed, in the process. The following four issues, \"The Devil You Know\" finally explain John's failure to save a young girl, Astra, from a demon in Newcastle, an event that left him near insane and incarcerated in an asylum known as Ravenscar, and still haunted him to the comic's end. He eventually discovers that the demon responsible for this was Nergal, and uses a technological scheme to trap him, and lead him back to hell. It also contains a crossover with \"Swamp Thing\", where Constantine loses his body while the Swamp Thing uses it to procreate.\n\nThis was followed by a lengthy nine-issue story arc, \"The Fear Machine\", revolving around a masonic plot to collect people's fears, in order to resurrect a Cthulhian god known as Juntakillokian, and his efforts to prevent this with the help of environmentalists, including Mercury, a young psychic girl, and Marj, her mother, with whom he becomes romantically involved. The penultimate major run of Delano's tenure was \"The Family Man\", which differed from the main body of the series thus far in that Constantine's nemesis is not supernatural (beyond an opening metafictional encounter with a fictional fence), but a former policeman turned serial killer. John's ethical quandary as to whether murder is ever acceptable, and his coping with the murder of his father, Thomas, frames this story. During this run on the title, Grant Morrison (issues #25 & 26) and Neil Gaiman (issue #27) both filled in during a three-month break, Grant Morrison's story dealing with nuclear fear, and Neil Gaiman's being a simple romantic ghost story.\n\nDelano's run ended with \"The Golden Child\", where John is reunited with Marj and Mercury, who help him discover that he murdered his more perfect twin in the womb, culminating in an extended story, in which we are shown what would have occurred had the other twin survived in his place. During his run, there was also a stand-alone issue, \"Hellblazer Annual\" #1, exploring Constantine's ancestry, and featuring the video to John's punk band, Mucous Membrane's song \"Venus of the Hardsell\".\n\nJamie Delano returned to the title on several occasions. Between the Garth Ennis and Paul Jenkins runs on \"Hellblazer\", he finally told the story of why John's best friend Chas 'owes' him, and he returned again for one of the five Christmas stories in issue #250. He also wrote the miniseries \"The Horrorist\" in 1995, and \"\" in 2000, both featuring John Constantine. A more substantial return was made in 2010 for a hardcover graphic novel \"\" with artist Jock to commemorate the 25th anniversary of John Constantine's first appearance in \"Swamp Thing\".\n\nIrish writer Garth Ennis then took over the title in 1991, again from \"2000 AD\", where he had been working on \"Judge Dredd\". He proceeded to write the longest run for any writer on the title. His take on the title was more personal than Jamie Delano's, with John's relationships coming to the fore. It also had a strong religious theme, with John's dealings with the First of the Fallen, and some storylines, such as the relationship between an angel, Tali, and a succubus demon, Ellie, would go on to be used again as a major plot device in \"Preacher\", one of his most popular works. He also references the music of The Pogues and the poetry of Brendan Behan, both of these being relevant to Ennis' Irish heritage.\n\nHis run started with \"Dangerous Habits\" (41–46), which was the basis for the 2005 film \"Constantine\", and dealt with John Constantine contracting lung cancer, and the desperate deal he makes with the First of the Fallen, and various other lords of Hell, to save himself. In the course of trying to save himself, he visits Ireland, where he becomes reacquainted with Kit Ryan, an old friend. The following few issues follow the early stages of his relationship with Kit, a plot to install a demon on the British throne in the plotline \"Royal Blood\", and in the extended issue #50, his first meeting with the King of the Vampires. One minor story in this arc (issue #51) was written by guest writer John Smith.\n\nThe next major arc, \"Fear and Loathing\" (issues 62-67) covers a high point of John's personal life, with his relationship with Kit going well, and a fortieth birthday party where his friends Ellie, Zatanna, and the Swamp Thing attend, and use their various abilities to create a large quantity of Bushmills whiskey and marijuana. The story then takes him to his lowest point, through his dealings with the National Front, their threats towards Kit, and her leaving him to return to Ireland. Following this, John is defeated, and lives homeless on the streets, drinking to forget his life. This remains the case until the King of the Vampires hunts him out, and is poisoned by his demon blood, leaving him out in the sun at dawn, killing him. Following his recovery, the storyline \"Damnation's Flame\" (Issues #72–77) follows a trip to the US, where Constantine is put into an alternative America by his old adversary Papa Midnite, a Vodun shaman. He is accompanied by the spirit of JFK, who has to hold his brain in place from his infamous wound. He eventually learns how to escape, shortly before running into the First of the Fallen, in the guise of Abraham Lincoln. There then follows a small break where he meets the spirit of a dead friend in Dublin, offering some closure to his recent problems. Ennis' run ends with \"Rake at the Gates of Hell\", a story which finally brings together the racism storyline, with riots in Mile End, echoing the real-life Brixton and Broadwater Farm riots in London, the revenge attempt of the First of the Fallen, started in \"Dangerous Habits\", and the end of John's relationship with Kit Ryan. John's eventual Pyrrhic victory leaves this run with closure, and a relatively clean slate for a new writer to take over.\n\nFollowing a brief interlude by \"From Hell\" artist Eddie Campbell, the series' direction was taken over by Paul Jenkins in 1995. He had been the former editor of \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" and other Mirage Studios lines. He had pitched to several comic houses, having tired of editing, and eventually managed to gain stewardship of \"Hellblazer\", the first largely untested writer to achieve this. Jenkins' run is more traditionally English in its themes, with Albion, Arthurian legend, and old English battles all featuring, and even an appearance by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, and a speculative explanation of the writing of Kubla Khan, and what the interruption of the 'man from Porlock' may have been. He also returns to Jamie Delano's coverage of anarchist lifestyles, and the effects of the Criminal Justice Act of 1994, a controversial law which restricted the ability of the public to throw raves and large demonstrations.\n\nMajor storylines in this run include \"Critical Mass\", where Constantine is forced to use magic to purge his darker side into another human body, in order to avoid being damned to Hell as part of a trade to save the possessed son of a friend, thus creating the antagonistic character, Demon Constantine, with the assistance of Aleister Crowley. The landmark hundredth issue gave more detail on John Constantine's father, and the abusive relationship that they had shared. However, it is unclear as to whether this is happening in reality, or in his mind as John convalesces in a coma. \"Last Man Standing\" reveals that his friend Rich is the current descendant of King Arthur, and Merlin's attempt to discover God's secret, an act which would destroy England, using John's few remaining friends as bait.\n\nThe tenth anniversary issue breaks from the usual format, in breaking the fourth wall, and addressing the reader as if they are in a pub with Constantine for a monthly get together to hear his stories. Over the course of the issue, most of the characters from Constantine's history appear, along with Death of the Endless from \"Sandman\". There are also appearances by writers and artists, including series creator Alan Moore, Garth Ennis, and Jenkins himself. Jenkins' run then draws to a close with two storylines, \"Up the Down Staircase\" and \"How to Play With Fire\", which relate the First of the Fallen's new plan, to essentially let mankind ruin itself through television and consumerism, and Ellie's plot to leave Constantine friendless and alone. John eventually saves himself, through a literal deus ex machina, in a campfire conversation with God. However, at that time Rich and his family finally sever their friendship with John, and the latter ends the run alone. Paul Jenkins later returned for one of the five stories in issue #250.\n\nEnnis briefly returned to the title in 1998 with \"Son of Man\", filling the gaps between Paul Jenkins's and Warren Ellis's runs on the title. This more irreverent story is about the consequences of Constantine resurrecting the dead son of an East London gangster, using the spirit of a demon. He also had two specials published during his run on the title, the \"Hellblazer Special\" and \"Heartland\", which follows Kit Ryan's return to Ireland.\n\nWarren Ellis took over the title in 1999, after his work on \"Transmetropolitan\" which had moved to the Vertigo imprint, following the closure of Helix Comics. He was meant to become a full-time writer for several years, as Delano, Ennis and Jenkins before him, but left the title early after DC refused to publish the story \"Shoot\", about high school shootings, following the Columbine High School massacre, despite the fact it had been written and submitted prior to the event. The story was finally published in 2010.\n\nHis brief run began with \"Haunted\", a London-based story in which John investigates the brutal murder of a former girlfriend, Isabel by an Aleister Crowley style magician, Josh Wright. The story introduces, or reintroduces many characters who became an important part of the Hellblazer universe, including Inspector Watford (originally from Jamie Delano's run on the title), aging magician Clarice, and Map, a powerful magician who works on tube renovations in his part as custodian of London. The remainder of Ellis' brief tenure was taken up with single issue stories, collected as \"Setting Sun\".\n\nFollowing a brief interlude by Croatian writer Darko Macan, the series was then taken over by Brian Azzarello, once again hired on the strength of his own series for Vertigo, \"100 Bullets\". Azzarello's run is one large meta-story, that follows John Constantine on a trip across America, starting with his incarceration in prison, then variously uncovering a pornography ring, catching a serial killer, taking on a Neo Nazi group before finally dealing with the architect of his incarceration, Stanley W. Manor, a thinly-veiled pastiche of Batman. Brian Azzarello did return for one of the five stories in issue #250. This arc achieved minor controversy for its depiction of Constantine as in a homosexual relationship.\n\nFollowing Azzarello's run, writer Mike Carey took over the title, following his Eisner award-winning title \"Lucifer\", set in the \"Sandman\" universe. Carey's run attempted to return John Constantine to his roots, with the title largely set back in London, and featuring many characters from former runs on the title. Mike Carey also has the honour of being the first Liverpudlian to write the Liverpudlian character. His was the second longest run by any single author on the title, second only to Garth Ennis.\n\nThe start of his run introduces Angie Spatchcock, a fellow magician, and reintroduces his niece, Gemma Constantine, who has also fallen into magic use, to her uncle's consternation. After ridding his sister's house of an evil spirit, and finding out Gemma has gone missing, John returns to London, to find his old colleagues and enemies are all taking sides in the hunt for a mythical item, known as the Red Sepulchre. John eventually locates the item, and finds Gemma, freeing her from his old enemy Josh Wright. Following several forewarnings, Constantine then travels the world to set up a plan for a forthcoming tragedy, which will occur when \"Three doors are opened\", involving Swamp Thing and the Garden of Eden amongst others.\n\nJohn's preparations have no effect, however, as he is tricked into killing the guardian that had been preventing the tragedy, freeing a beast which can control the collective unconsciousness of mankind. John Constantine cuts his own wrists, in order to free himself from consciousness, and plays a confidence trick on the beast, allowing his friends time to use the collective consciousness to rebuild the guardian that had kept the beast trapped. However, in this process, Swamp Thing has his human soul removed, setting up the fourth run of the comic, relaunched shortly afterward. In the process John loses his memory, setting up the events leading up to the 200th issue. Leading up to the landmark issue, John has little control over events, and is led along by a psychic serial killer, who threatens to kill Chas and his family, and a demon, Rosacarnis, who offers his memories back, at the cost of 24 hours in her service. John eventually gives into this offer, and the 200th issue shows how Rosacarnis manipulates his reality, making him raise three children with her, in the guise of Kit Ryan, from Garth Ennis's time on the title, Zed, from Jamie Delano's, and Angie, from the current run, with three different artists, Steve Dillon, Marcelo Frusin and Leonardo Manco each drawing one story, as the past, present and future of the title.\n\nCarey's final run followed the attempts of John's three new children attempting to kill all of his family and friends, culminating in the death of his sister, Cheryl, at the hands of her possessed husband. John then travels into Hell to try to rescue her soul, with the assistance of Rosacarnis's father, Nergal. The plan ultimately fails, and John returns broken, and intending to renounce magic.\n\nMike Carey returned to the title for a single issue between Denise Mina and Andy Diggle's runs on the title, and also wrote the well-received \"Hellblazer\" graphic novel \"All His Engines\" about a strange illness sweeping the globe.\n\nDenise Mina had not written for comics when she took over the title in 2006, but had three acclaimed crime novels to her name, the Garnetthill trilogy, the first of which won the CWA award for best debut crime novel. Her run on the title took John to Scotland, to attempt to stop a plot to make everybody empathise with each other. However, John fails to stop this, and, overwhelmed by the grief and horror they're forced to empathically share, suicides abound through the people of Glasgow. With help from Gemma Constantine, Angie Spatchcock and Chas Chandler, a plan to reverse the problem is made, as tension builds among the soldiers now surrounding the city. The soldiers keenly listen to a World Cup match between England and Portugal on the radio. When England loses the match, it seems all is lost, but the expected psychic riot fails to materialize. The soldiers are Scottish, so England's loss is celebrated, saving the day, and proving there's no source of joy like Schadenfreude.\n\nAndy Diggle, having previously written the \"Hellblazer\" special, \"Lady Constantine\", and Vertigo titles \"The Losers\" and \"Swamp Thing\", took over the title in 2007, another former writer for \"2000 AD\" to have done this. He left the title in 2009 after accepting an exclusive contract with Marvel.\n\nThe run starts by introducing two main antagonists, an aging politician, who is using a strange portal to enter other people's minds and commit crimes, and Mako, a cannibalistic mage who devours other magicians in order to obtain their power. Constantine's attempt to play them off one another only succeeds in making them join forces in a further plot. Constantine then traps them both with considerable ease, and questions how this has been so easy. It then becomes apparent that he has been manipulated by the 'Golden Child', his twin who did not survive childbirth, and has been manipulating events for the whole of the series, including his battle with cancer and many other events. He declines his twin's offer to merge souls, suspicious that his twin has been weakening his will in past years to make him accept this offer, choosing instead to take control of his own destiny.\n\nPeter Milligan, a veteran of the Vertigo line, having written both \"Shade, The Changing Man\" and \"Animal Man\" at the publisher's inception, then took over, starting with a short story in the landmark 250th issue, and taking over full-time following this. His run implemented several major changes, including John Constantine's wedding and the loss of his thumb.\n\nIn a rare change, Milligan's run on the title starts with John living in domestic bliss with a nurse, Phoebe. Over the course of the first storyline, several new characters are introduced, including Epiphany Greaves, the alchemist daughter of a notorious London gangster, and Julian, a Babylonian demon. Over the course of the run, John dealt with a demon taking revenge on people involved in the Liverpool dockers' strike gone insane and sought help from Shade, The Changing Man, after chopping off his own thumb, seen Phoebe die at the hands of Julian, and traveled to India to try to find a way of saving her. Following this, he realised that he was in love with Epiphany, and married her in the 275th issue. However, the events of this wedding turned Constantine's niece Gemma against him, due to the Demon Constantine sexually assaulting her in the restroom. The strain of this traumatic incident turned her against John, and she enlisted the help of a coven of witches to kill him, which later came to a head when John was forced to fight off a brutal Demon summoned by them using John's iconic trenchcoat to target him.\n\nAfterwards, John's coat (which Gemma sold on eBay) began to manipulate its various new owners into murder, suicide, or other horrific acts until coming into the hands of a man from the U.S., who tried to kill John and Epiphany. During the time the coat was missing, John's magical abilities had begun to go out of control. John eventually resolves this, and he was re-united with his coat. Since this, Gemma and John have a very shaky relationship with one another, and she began a sexual relationship with Epiphany's crime-boss father Terry in order to \"punish\" John. When he confronted her about this relationship though, she told him that she would not stop unless he was able to retrieve her mother's soul from Hell. John agreed. In order to get his sister to leave Hell, John agreed to track down her son, his adopted nephew, in Ireland.\n\nOn October 8, 2012, the series was announced as ending with issue 300, following which a new title, \"Constantine\" started at the main imprint of DC comics. By 2013, Constantine was contacted by the Three Fates, who tell him that he will finally meet his end in five days. Having lived a good and adventurous life, he happily accepts his fate rather than trying to fight it like he always does. When the last day came, Constantine was ambushed and shot in his own home right in front of a horrified Epiphany. After he died, Epiphany and Finn had an affair as a way to comfort each other. John's ghost saw them having sex in a graveyard and seemed to give his blessing, making the fates decide that John wasn't going to try to come back to life. Then, of course, he did. He contacted Epiphany and asked her to help resurrect him by making him cigarettes from his ashes, which, after he smoked them, made him corporeal again. Thinking to disappear and live happily ever after with Epiphany, they moved to a tiny house in Ireland, courtesy of Finn, that was totally off the grid and far removed from any apparent trouble, the last place anyone would think to look for John. That didn't last long, though, as John realized he can never run from his past.\n\nSo John left Epiphany in Ireland and returned to England to confront Gemma. He stole the last dart holding the concoction that killed his demon twin, but ultimately gave it back to Gemma and told her either she could kill him, and live her life without him in but consumed with guilt for killing him, or she could let him disappear from her life forever, without any guilt for murdering him. Gemma shot the dart at him, but John disappeared. The final panel of Hellblazer reveals John, looking shocked and much older than we'd previously seen him, standing in a bar appropriately called \"A Long Journey's End\" surrounded by people, in front of a shelf full of bottles with the names of the comic's staff over the years.\n\nIn 2011, it was announced that a younger John Constantine would feature in \"Justice League Dark\", one of the new titles launched as part of September 2011's DC Universe reboot. He was to be part of a team including Shade, The Changing Man, Deadman and Madame Xanadu, known as Justice League Dark. As part of the DC universe reboot in September 2011, Peter Milligan started the title which featured an alternate version of John Constantine as a prominent part of the team. Milligan wrote eight issues of \"Justice League Dark\", with writer Jeff Lemire taking over on issue nine.\n\nOn November 8, 2012, DC announced that \"Hellblazer\" would be cancelled following its 300th issue, and would be replaced by \"Constantine\" written by Robert Venditti and drawn by Renato Guedes starring the younger New 52 John Constantine, rather than the version from Hellblazer, depicted as being in his late 50s. The \"Constantine\" series ended its run with its 23rd issue in May 2015. Nonetheless, the character would again star in another solo series entitled \"Constantine: The Hellblazer\", written by Ming Doyle and art by Riley Rossmo, and released in June 10, 2015. Writer Ming Doyle expressed excitement in her chance to write Constantine, stating that the reason of putting the term \"Hellblazer\" back to the character's title was to \"take Constantine back to what he was at the start.\" On July 20, 2016 a new comic book entitled \"The Hellblazer: Rebirth\" was released as part of \"DC Rebirth\", a major relaunch in an effort to return famous DC stories from before the New 52 back into the reboot. The plot concerns John Constantine finally returning to London after being cursed by a demon that forced him to leave the city. Former \"Hellblazer\" characters such as Chas Chandler and Mercury made appearances in the series, and the comic was written by Simon Oliver who previously wrote the spin-off series \"\".\n\n\"Hellblazer\" was first published during the early days of the Modern Age of Comics, and so its themes were as dark, edgy, and politically and morally complex as its contemporaries. The comic mixed supernatural and real life horror, akin to contemporary gothic, with noire, surrealism and occult detective fiction elements. Unlike other comic books, it is also unique as it follows real time in its span of 20 years, with its protagonist John Constantine aging in every publication. Because of this, writers of the series often places their era's culture and social commentary in their run. When Jamie Delano first wrote the series in the late 1980s and early 1990s, his issues were heavily inspired by the era such as punk rock and the British economy. Delano would be the first to put his political views in the series, an element never before seen in mainstream comics, such as his negative views of Thatcher's regime and by 2005 includes the War on Terror. This made John Constantine different from other comic book characters at that time, in that he fights the political and social injustice of Great Britain.\n\nWhen Garth Ennis took over writing, he included his trademark representation of racism and religious fanaticism, as well his depictions of the Falklands War. The most controversial writer, Brian Azzarello, tackled issues such as neo-Nazism, prison rape and homosexuality. During Warren Ellis' run, he included American school shootings in a one-shot issue which led to a major controversy. In his run, Peter Milligan managed to put punk ideology in the series, with the protagonist trying to reacquire his former punk self, while also characterizing the Conservative government as a demon infestation with the punk subculture fighting against this supposed subversion and abuse. As such, much of Hellblazer's horror often comes in the crisis and controversies of its time. Being set in the UK, many famous British personalities have appeared or made cameos such as Sid Vicious, Margaret Thatcher, Aleister Crowley and Alan Moore.\n\nAs stated by Warren Ellis, Hellblazer's major themes were cynicism, nihilism and \"sudden violence\", with the protagonist oftentimes narrating the story in dark proses with occasional breaking of the fourth wall. In many story arcs every victory Constantine makes has a negative side effect and often leads to tragedy. His friends, family, and others would be sacrificed or be caught in the crossfire, many of them are dead or have left him. John tries his best to make something good in his life, but most of it leading to failure.\n\nOver the two decades that it had been published, \"Hellblazer\" had normally been quite well received. While not attaining the sales of 'mainstream' comics, it had sustained healthy figures, consistently being one of the top selling Vertigo titles, and was sustained by healthy sales of trade paperbacks. Hillary Goldstein of IGN described it as, \"Sometimes surreal, often provocative and almost always entertaining, the adventures of the Hellblazer are among the best Vertigo has to offer.\" Well-known comic book writer Warren Ellis also praised the series as his favorite, calling it as \"among the very best horror works of the 1990's.\" Andre Borges from \"DNA India\" listed it in the \"15 Must Read Graphic Novels\", describing it as \"one of the first of its kind\", and that its \"writing and art work have been praised throughout its run.\" Robert Tutton of \"Paste Magazine\" listed the series at #4 in its \"13 Terrifying Modern Horror Comics\", stating that \"Constantine’s most frightening encounters have hewn close enough to that kernel of truth to remind readers that real life can be as terrifying as any succubus or demon spawn.\"\n\nJamie Delano's original run on the title is looked on fondly, with journalist Helen Braithwaite stating, \"His take on the character of John Constantine has never been equalled. Delano's \"Original Sins\" graphic novel should be in every comic book fan's collection.\" She added that, \"His writing evokes an incredible sense of dread and terror in a reader.\" IGN listed the title as one of the 25 Best Vertigo Books, calling John Constantine as \"one of Vertigo's best characters.\"\n\nGarth Ennis' run is also much loved, particularly \"Dangerous Habits\", which was voted the best Garth Ennis story on Comic Book Resources, ahead of his work on \"Preacher\", \"The Boys\" and \"The Punisher\". In the same article Brian Cronin describes John's one time love, Kit Ryan, as one of the series' most memorable characters. The popularity of Ennis and Dillon's run on \"Hellblazer\" is also credited for Vertigo agreeing to publish their seminal series \"Preacher\". Empire Magazine called \"Dangerous Habits\" storyline as \"rightly one of the most celebrated in comic book history.\" Glenn Fabry who was the cover artist during Ennis' run, won an Eisner Ward for \"Best Cover Artist\" in 1995.\n\nThe creator of the protagonist, Alan Moore, praised Jamie Delano's portrayal of the character, commenting \"[Delano] demonstrates brilliantly that English horror didn't vanish with the fog and gas lit cobblestones at the end of the Victorian era.\" Moore also liked Brian Azzarello's run on the series, commenting that Azzarello and Corben captured the character \"down, cold and to the life.\"\n\nThe character received positive critical reception while starring in the series. Empire Magazine ranked Constantine third in their 50 Greatest Comic Characters of All Time, while IGN ranked him #29 in their Top 100 Comic Book Heroes, and the character ranked #10 in Wizard Magazine's Top 200 Comic Book Characters of All Time.\n\nThe comic book's initial cancellation, and the introduction of the character to DC led to many negative feedback and reception. \"I, Vampire\" writer Joshua Hale Fialkov expressed sadness he would never get to write \"the 'real' John Constantine\", noted crime author and former \"Hellblazer\" writer Ian Rankin stated that Constantine was the only comic book character he ever wanted to write for, and Alan Moore's daughter, Leah Moore expressing doubt that \"Constantine\" could replace \"Hellblazer\", among others. As a result, DC co-publisher Dan Didio issued a statement defending this decision, stating that, \"Hellblazer's had a long and incredibly successful run and that's a tip of the hat to all the great creators that have worked on the book over the years. The new Constantine series will return him back to his roots in the DCU and hopefully be the start of another incredible run.\" \"Comic Alliance\" described \"Hellblazer's\" cancellation as marking \"the end of an era for Vertigo\" while adding it to be \"one of a handful of comics from the late eighties that helped comic books and their readers grow up.\"\n\n\"Hellblazer\" boosted the popularity and image of the occult detective fiction genre and shaped it to its modern form. Many modern examples of the genre such as \"Hellboy\", \"Supernatural\", \"Grimm\", \"The Originals\", and \"The Dresden Files\" have been influenced by it, and many imitators of both the series and its character flourished such as \"Criminal Macabre\", \"Gravel\", \"Planetary\", and others. Its elements and style have been used countless of times in other works and many analogues of the cynical John Constantine have appeared.\n\nThe first adaptation of \"Hellblazer\" ever filmed for the screen is one of the scenes in the documentary feature film \"The Mindscape of Alan Moore\", which was shot in early 2002. The dramatization consists of the John Constantine character wandering through London and, in the film ending, experiencing a mystical epiphany of sorts.\n\nIn 2005, \"Constantine\" was released, a feature film that did not use the same title as the comic book, in order to avoid confusion with the \"Hellraiser\" horror franchise. The only links to the character of John Constantine were the name and a plotline loosely based on the \"Dangerous Habits\" story arc (\"Hellblazer\" #41–46). DC Comics announced a sequel to the 2005 \"Constantine\" movie was in the works, with producer Lorenzo di Bonaventura linked to the project. He stated: \"I'd love to do it...We want to do a hard, R-rated version of it. We're going to scale back the size of the movie to try and persuade the studio to go ahead and make a tough version of it.\" In late 2012, director Guillermo del Toro publicly discussed the notion of creating a film that would star John Constantine alongside other DC/Vertigo characters such as Zatanna, Swamp Thing, and more.\n\nConstantine appears in the animated film \"Justice League Dark\", with Matt Ryan reprising his role from the Arrowverse.\n\nIn January 2014 it was announced that David Goyer and Daniel Cerone were developing a TV series based on \"Hellblazer\" and that NBC had ordered a pilot for it. A few weeks later it was announced that Neil Marshall would be directing the pilot. The series will follow Constantine in his early years, defending humanity against dark forces from beyond. On February, 21 it was announced that Welsh actor Matt Ryan (whose credits include \"\" and Edward Kenway in \"\") will play the role of Constantine in the TV series pilot. On May 8, NBC announced it had officially picked up \"Constantine\" for the Fall 2014 season. The show ran for 13 episodes, and on May 8, 2015, NBC cancelled \"Constantine\" after the end of its first season. It was later announced that the character of Constantine as portrayed by Ryan would be reappearing in the fourth season of The CW's \"Arrow\". Ryan will reprise the role in multiple episodes of the third season of \"Legends of Tomorrow\". In March 2018 it was announced Ryan’s Constantine will join the cast as a series regular for the fourth season. In January 2017, it was announced that Matt Ryan would reprise his role as John Constantine on a new animated series, after making a guest appearing in \"Arrow\"s fourth season, as well as in the short-lived live-action series. In January 2017, The CW president Pedowitz stated there were no plans \"at this point in time\" for Ryan to appear in any of the Arrowverse live-action series and noted there had yet to be discussions regarding if any other characters that appeared in the cancelled live-action series to appear in the web series, nor if this version of the character would \"connect back to the live-action storylines he's been a part of.\" The series was developed by Warner Bros. Animation and Blue Ribbon Content, with Greg Berlanti, Schechter and David S. Goyer (one of the creators of the live-action series) serving as executive producers, and Butch Lukic served as producer. J. M. DeMatteis wrote the series, which will be directed by Doug Murphy. Warner Bros Animation and Blue Ribbon Content Vice President Peter Girardi said the series aimed to be \"darker\" than the live-action series, and closer to the Hellblazer comics published by Vertigo. Constantine appears in \"Justice League Action\", voiced by Damian O'Hare\n\nTHQ released a video game tie-in of the film \"Constantine\". The song \"Stranger in the Mirror\" by Ookla the Mok is written from Constantine's point of view, including a lyrical reference to 'the Newcastle incident'. The song \"Venus of the Hardsell\", which first appeared in \"Hellblazer Annual #1\" and written by Jamie Delano, was adapted by the rock group Spiderlegs.\n\nFantasy fiction author John Shirley is credited in writing three \"Hellblazer\" novels, including the novelisation of the \"Constantine\" film. The novel \"Hellblazer: War Lord\" features Constantine talking about \"another John Constantine in an alternate universe, [who] has black hair and lives most of his life in Los Angeles\" whilst giving a brief summary of the film's plot.\n\n"}
{"id": "28334618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28334618", "title": "Hinduism Invades America", "text": "Hinduism Invades America\n\nHinduism Invades America is an early twentieth-century scholarly work on the introduction of Hinduism in America which was authored by Wendell Thomas in 1930.\n\n"}
{"id": "1667764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1667764", "title": "Honorary Prelate", "text": "Honorary Prelate\n\nAn Honorary Prelate of His Holiness is a priest to whom the Pope has granted this title. They are addressed as Monsignor and have certain privileges as regards ecclesiastical dress.\n\nBefore the motu proprio \"Pontificalis Domus\" of 28 March 1968, Honorary Prelates were called Domestic Prelates (in Latin, \"Antistites Urbani\"), a title that then also went with certain offices such as that of Archbishop or Bishop Assistant at the Throne or membership of the Roman Prelature, and that was also maintained by Archbishops, Bishops and Apostolic Protonotaries who had been awarded it before their appointment to those positions.\n\nToday, as well as those to whom the award is granted individually, generally at the request of their bishops, the following are \"ex officio\" Honorary Prelates:\n\nWith the reforms of \"Pontificalis Domus\", Honorary Prelates were made the second of three ranks of Monsignors. However, Pope Francis, in 2014, decreed that (allegedly to cut down on clerical \"careerism\") there would be only one class of Monsignor, the lowest, Chaplain of His Holiness (formerly called Papal Chamberlain, and the category right below Honorary Prelate), and that it would be awarded only to those diocesan priests who were at least 65 years old (these changes did not affect those priests serving in the Roman Curia; religious order priests can be named Bishops but are not given largely honorary titles such as Monsignor). The higher two categories would be abolished for diocesan priests, but the change is not retroactive—those who have the three grades can still keep them (but they will not be raised to a higher grade).\n\n"}
{"id": "1186417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1186417", "title": "Islam in the Maldives", "text": "Islam in the Maldives\n\nIslam is the major religion and the most widespread religion of the Maldives. It is also the official religion of Maldives. The Maldivians population consists of over 80 percent Muslims, with about 10 to 15 percent either unaffiliated or of other views.\n\nThe importance of the Arabs as traders in the Indian Ocean by the 12th century may partly explain why the last Buddhist king of Maldives Dhovemi converted to Islam in the year 1153 (or 1193, for certain copper plate grants give a later date). \nThe king thereupon adopted the Muslim title and name (in Arabic) of Sultan (besides the old Divehi title of \"Maha Radun\" or \"Ras Kilege\" or \"Rasgefānu\") Muhammad al Adil, initiating a series of six Islamic dynasties consisting of eighty-four sultans and sultanas that lasted until 1932 when the sultanate became elective.The formal title of the Sultan up to 1965 was, \"Sultan of Land and Sea, Lord of the twelve-thousand islands and Sultan of the Maldives\" which came with the style \"Highness\". \nThe person traditionally deemed responsible for this conversion was a Sunni Muslim visitor named Abu al Barakat, or more commonly known as the Shaykh Yusuf bin Ahmad al-Kawneyn. His venerated tomb now stands on the grounds of Hukuru Mosque in the capital Malé. Built in 1656, this is the oldest mosque in Maldives. \nFollowing the Islamic concept that before Islam there was the time of Jahiliya (ignorance), in the history books used by Maldivians the introduction of Islam at the end of the 12th century is considered the cornerstone of the country's history.\n\nCompared to the other areas of South Asia, the conversion of the Maldives to Islam happened relatively late. Arab Traders had converted populations in the Malabar Coast since the 7th century, and the Muslim General Muhammad Bin Qāsim had converted of Sindh and Southern Punjab to Islam at about the same time. The Maldives remained a Buddhist kingdom for another five hundred years (perhaps the south-westernmost Buddhist country) until the conversion to Islam.\n\nArab interest in Maldives also was reflected in the residence there in the 1340s of Ibn Battutah. The well-known North African traveler wrote how a Maghrebi, one \"Abu Barakat the Berber\", was believed to have been responsible for spreading Islam in the islands, reportedly convincing the local king after having subdued Ranna Maari, a demon coming from the sea. Even though this report has been contested in later sources, it does explain some crucial aspects of Maldivian culture. For instance, historically Arabic has been the prime language of administration there, instead of the Persian and Urdu languages used in the nearby Muslim states. Another link to North Africa was the Maliki school of jurisprudence, used throughout most of North Africa, which was the official one in the Maldives until the 17th century.\n\nSome scholars have suggested the possibility of Ibn Battuta misreading Maldive texts,and having a bias towards the North African, Maghrebi narrative of this Shaykh, instead of the East African origins account that was known as well at the time. Even when Ibn Battuta visited the islands the governor of the island at that time was Abd Aziz Al Mogadishawi, a Somali \n\nScholars have posited another scenario where this Abu Barakat might have been a native of Berbera, a significant trading port on the north western coast of Somalia. \"Barbara\" or \"Barbaroi\" (Berbers), as the ancestors of the Somalis were referred to by medieval Arab and ancient Greek geographers, respectively. This is also seen when Ibn Batuta visited Mogadishu, he mentions that the Sultan at that time 'Abu Bakr ibn Shaikh Omar', was a Berber(Somali). According to scholars Abu Barakat Al Barbari was Yusuf bin Ahmad al-Kawneyn, a famous native Somali scholar known for establishing the Walashma dynasty of the Horn of Africa. After his conversion of the population of Dogor (now known as Aw Barkhadle), a town in Somalia, he is also credited to have been responsible for spreading Islam in the Maldivian islands, establishing the Hukuru Miskiiy Mosque, and converting the Maldivian population into Islam. Ibn Batuta states the Maldivian king was converted by Abu Al Barakat Al Berber (Blessed Father of Somalia). This scenario would also help explain the usage of the Arabic language and the predominance of the Maliki school on the islands. \n\nAnother interpretation, held by the more reliable local historical chronicles, \"Raadavalhi\" and \"Taarikh\", is that Abu Barakat was an Iranian from Tabriz called Yusuf Shamsud-din, also locally known as Tabrīzugefānu. In the Arabic script the words al-Barbari and al-Tabrizi are very much alike, owing to the fact that at the time, Arabic had several consonants that looked identical and could only be differentiated by overall context (this has since changed by addition of dots above or below letters to clarify pronunciation – For example, the letter \"B\" in modern Arabic has a dot below, whereas the letter \"T\" looks identical except there are two dots above it). The first reference to an Iranian origin dates to an 18th-century Persian text.\n\nThe much venerated tomb of this saint now stands opposite the grounds of Hukuru Miski, in the centre of Malé.\n\nThe Maldives have had a long history of Sufic orders, as can be seen in the history of the country such as the building of tombs. They were used until as recently as the 1980s for seeking the help of buried saints. They can be seen today next to some old mosques and are considered today as cultural heritage.\n\nOther aspects of tassawuf, such as ritualised dhikr ceremonies called Maulūdu (Mawlid) — the liturgy of which included recitations and certain supplications in a melodical tone—existed until very recent times. These Maulūdu festivals were held in ornate tents specially built for the occasion. At present Islam is the official religion of the entire population, as adherence to it is required for citizenship.\n\nIslam is the state religion of Maldives, and adherence to it is legally required for citizens by a revision of the constitution in 2008: Article 9, Section D \"states that a non-Muslim may not become a citizen of the Maldives.\"\n\nThe traditional Islamic law code of shariah, known in Dhivehi as sariatu, forms the Maldives' basic code of law, as interpreted to conform to local Maldivian conditions by the President, the attorney general, the Ministry of Home Affairs, and the Majlis. On the inhabited islands, the \"miski\", or mosque, forms the central place where Islam is practiced. Because Friday is the most important day for Muslims to attend mosque, shops and offices in towns and villages close around 11 a.m., and the sermon begins by 12:30 p.m.\n\nAdhan (prayer) sessions are held five times daily. Mudimu, the mosque caretakers, make the call. Most shops and offices close for fifteen minutes after each call. During the ninth Muslim month of Ramadan, cafés and restaurants are closed during the day, and working hours are limited.\n\nMost inhabited Maldivian islands have several mosques; Malé has more than thirty. Most traditional mosques are whitewashed buildings constructed of coral stone with corrugated iron or thatched roofs.\n\nSome Maldivian mosques host mandala-like decorative elements, cultural influences from the pre-Islamic period and/or from the Indian sub-continent.\nIn Malé, the Islamic Center and the Grand Friday Mosque, built in 1984 with funding from the Persian Gulf states, Pakistan, Brunei, and Malaysia, are imposing elegant structures. The gold-colored dome of this mosque is the first structure sighted when approaching Malé. In mid-1991 Maldives had a total of 725 mosques and 266 women's mosques.\n\nIn the late 1990s the spread of Wahhabism challenged more traditional Islamic practices. After the 2004 tsunami, Saudi-funded preachers gained even more influence.\nIndian Newspaper \"The Week\" reported that charities that served as fronts for Pakistani terrorist groups like Lashkar e Toiba used disaster relief missions to tsunami-torn Maldives as an opportunity to recruit potential jihadists.\n\nThe Guardian estimates that 50-100 fighters have joined ISIS and al Qaeda from the Maldives. The Financial Times puts the number at 200. Radicalization often happens in jail where the \"only thing to read is the Qur’an or religious literature. There are also lots of older militants and young guys look up to them.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49542030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49542030", "title": "Islamic Reporting Initiative", "text": "Islamic Reporting Initiative\n\nThe Islamic Reporting Initiative (IRI) is an independent not-for-profit organization leading the creation of the IRI standard; the guiding integrated Corporate Sustainability and Social Responsibility (CSR) reporting standard based on Islamic principles and values that works towards achieving international standards of best practice. The framework will enable organizations to inclusively assess, report, verify and certify their CSR and philanthropic programs supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.\n\nFounded on 4 April 2015, the IRI seeks to make CSR reporting standard practice in organizations across the Islamic world and OIC countries in particular. The IRI is headquartered in The Netherlands, and (as of 2016) has members in more than 50 countries. \nIn 2015, the IRI was commended by the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the second largest inter-governmental organization after the United Nations, with membership of 57 states over four continents.\n\nThe vision of the IRI is a sustainable global economy that contributes actively to society and the environment integrating the values of peace, compassion, tolerance, righteousness, environmental stewardship and human dignity into corporate culture.\n\nThe mission of the IRI is to enable organizations throughout the world to examine the values that guide their activities and express with clarity and simplicity their contribution to sustainability in society and the environment.\n\nThe IRI aims to provide a range of internationally recognized business tools, guidelines and standards to accelerate the mainstream implementation of the shared post-2015 goals as outlined in both the OIC-2025 plan of action and the UN Sustainable Development Goals 2030.\n\nThe IRI was created in response to research that identified low rates of sustainability and CSR reporting despite a prevalence of sustainability and CSR practice in organizations where Islamic principles and values are an important element of corporate culture. Such findings indicate that existing sustainability reporting standards, such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and ISO Standards, among others, are not always as practical or relevant in a local and cultural context.\n\nThe IRI is a culturally-responsive reporting framework based on Islamic principles and values and the embedded widespread practice of philanthropy. Such values shape organizational cultures and ground CSR as an economic and moral initiative, founded on the understanding that an organization aspires to be a ‘good corporate citizen’. The framework will be compatible with elements specific to the culture, such as Zakat and other organizational codes of conduct. At the same time, the IRI framework will be compatible with Sharia compliant finance, one of the fastest growing types of finance: between 2009 and 2013 Islamic banking assets grew at an annual rate of 17.6%, and are expected to grow annually by an average of 19.7% until 2018.\n\nIn March 2017, the IRI was recognized by the Cambridge IF Analytica Global Islamic Finance Report (GIFR) as one of the leading initiatives in Islamic Finance in 2017.\n\nThe IRI deems the need for CSR reporting to be culturally-responsive in order to maximize the nuances that lend themselves to the overall ambition of CSR and to maximize stakeholder engagement. With CSR reports primarily used by stakeholders, it is important that the motivations for CSR practice are framed within the local context and use a language that is familiar, meaningful and relatable to culture. Once such a framework \"fits into its place\", it creates stable, flourishing and interconnected economic, social and cultural environments.\n\nThe IRI enables CSR and sustainability metrics to be incorporated into wider business practice through the integrated nature of the framework. CSR and sustainability reporting is a concept encouraging businesses and institutions to report on their social and environmental performance. The combination of non-financial and financial metrics provides an additional layer of information important to stakeholders and investors in the measurement and management of risk.\n\nThe IRI was founded by Daan Elffers, CEO of EMG Group, as part of the advisory firm’s own CSR program. EMG Group’s advisory board is chaired by H.H. Prince Pieter-Christiaan of Orange-Nassau, van Vollenhoven and other members include prominent financier Gerrit Heyns and the former Danish Minister of Environment, Ida Auken MP. \n\nThe IRI Advisory Council includes H.E. Hakima El Haïté Delegate Minister in charge of the Environment of Morocco; Host of the UN Climate Change COP22 in Marrakech, H.E. Dr Taher Shakhshir, Minister of Environment, The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Thoraya Al Awadhi, Founder and CEO of the Thoraya Al Awadhi Group of Companies and President of the Rotary Club of Dubai, and Dr. Yacoub Nasereddin, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Middle East University in Jordan and Founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors of YAN Group.\n\nThe foundation for the IRI \"Stichting IRI Reporting Standard\" was founded on 15 December 2015. The Trustees/board members of the foundation for the IRI are its founder Drs Daan Elffers; entrepreneur, thought leader and philanthropist Mohamed Amersi; the award-winning entrepreneur Ms Amal Daraghmeh-Masri; sustainability thought leader Gerrit Heyns; and senior academic Dr Abdel-Aziz Sharabati.\n\nOn 17 February 2017, IRI Trustee Ms Amal Daraghmeh Masri of Palestine was appointed Knight (Chevalier) of the French National Order of Merit (Ordre national du Mérite).\n\nThe IRI collaborates with a global network of governmental, corporate and not- for-profit organizations across the Islamic world, referred to as members. The IRI has members from over 50 countries, and include DQS Certification and Auditing (Germany), the Social Stock Exchange (London, United Kingdom), the International Medical Centre (IMC, Saudi Arabia), and Glowork (Saudi Arabia). The IRI has more than 20 media partners, including Middle East Business News and Magazine (Palestine) and Business Islamica (United Arab Emirates). The Middle East University in Jordan is one of the first members of the initiative.\n\nAs the framework develops, the IRI global network of users will, in disclosing their CSR and sustainability data, be actively engaged in advancing the IRI framework in line with international best practice.\n\nIn 2015, the IRI has been active at the following international events:\n\nOn 7 November 2016, the IRI held its first round table (discussion) as an official side event of the UN Climate Change Conference COP22 \n\nIn 2015, the IRI contributed to the 2015 Islamic Finance Development Report, published by ICD - Thomson Reuters, and has been featured in ‘Making It’, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) quarterly magazine.\n\n\nThe IRI has contributed to, and been part of academic studies into the effect of CSR on business performance in the MENA region (pending publication).\n\n"}
{"id": "18320056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18320056", "title": "Islamic studies by author (non-Muslim or academic)", "text": "Islamic studies by author (non-Muslim or academic)\n\nIncluded are prominent authors who have made studies concerning Islam, the religion and its civilization, and the culture of Muslim peoples. Not included are those studies of Islam produced by Muslim authors meant primarily for a Muslim audience.\n\nHerein most of the authors from the early centuries of Islam belonged to non-Muslim societies, cultures, or religions. The primary intent of many early works was to inform non-Muslims about a distant and/or unfamiliar Islam; some were clearly polemical in motivation and cannot be termed objective. As time went on, academic standards were developed generally, and were increasingly applied to studies of Islam. Many of the authors here are of Christian provenance, yet there are also Jewish, Zoroastrian, Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Taoist, Confucian, Communist, and secular points of view. The most recent entries are often sourced in universities, and include works by Muslim professors whose publications address a worldwide audience.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2282265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2282265", "title": "Johannes Buxtorf", "text": "Johannes Buxtorf\n\nJohannes Buxtorf (December 25, 1564September 13, 1629) was a celebrated Hebraist, member of a family of Orientalists; professor of Hebrew for thirty-nine years at Basel and was known by the title, \"Master of the Rabbis\". His massive tome, \"De Synagoga Judaica\" (1st. ed. 1603), scrupulously documents the customs and society of German Jewry in the early modern period.\n\nBuxtorf was the father of Johannes Buxtorf the Younger.\n\nBuxtorf was born at Kamen in Westphalia. The original form of the name was Bockstrop, or Boxtrop, from which was derived the family crest, which bore the figure of a goat (Ger. Bock, he-goat). After the death of his father, who was minister of Kamen, Buxtorf studied at Marburg and the newly founded Herborn Academy, at the latter of which Caspar Olevian (1536–1587) and Johannes Piscator (1546–1625) had been appointed professors of theology. At a later date Piscator received the assistance of Buxtorf in the preparation of his Latin translation of the Old Testament, published at Herborn in 1602-1603. From Herborn Buxtorf went to Heidelberg, and thence to Basel, attracted by the reputation of Johann Jakob Grynaeus and J. G. Hospinian (1515–1575).\n\nAfter a short residence at Basel, he studied successively under Heinrich Bullinger (1504–1575) at Zürich and Theodore Beza at Geneva. On his return to Basel, Grynaeus, desirous that the services of so promising a scholar should be secured to the university, procured him a situation as tutor in the family of Leo Curio, son of Celio Secondo Curione, well known for his sufferings on account of the Reformed faith. At the insistence of Grynaeus, Buxtorf undertook the duties of the Hebrew chair in the university, and discharged them for two years with such ability that at the end of that time he was unanimously appointed to the vacant office. From this date (1591) to his death in 1629 he remained in Basel, and devoted himself with remarkable zeal to the study of Hebrew and rabbinic literature. He received into his house many learned Jews, that he might discuss his difficulties with them, and he was frequently consulted by Jews themselves on matters relating to their ceremonial law. He seems to have well deserved the title which was conferred upon him of \"Master of the Rabbins.\" His partiality for Jewish society brought him, indeed, on one occasion into trouble with the authorities of the city, the laws against the Jews being very strict. Nevertheless, on the whole, his relations with the city of Basel were friendly. He remained firmly attached to the university which first recognized his merits, and declined two invitations from the University of Leiden and Academy of Saumur successively. His correspondence with the most distinguished scholars of the day was very extensive; the library of the university of Basel contains a rich collection of letters, which are valuable for a literary history of the time.\n\n\nBuxtorf did not live to complete the two works on which his reputation chiefly rests, his \"Lexicon Chaldaicum, Talmudicum, et Rabbinicum\", and the \"Concordantiae Bibliorum Hebraicorum\", both of which were edited by his son. The lexicon was republished at Leipzig in 1869 with some additions by Bernard Fischer, and the concordance was assumed by Julius Fürst as the basis of his own Hebrew concordance, which appeared in 1840. \n\nWilhelm Gesenius wrote in 1815 that he considered Buxtorf's Hebrew grammar the best yet written.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10209031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10209031", "title": "John William Brodie-Innes", "text": "John William Brodie-Innes\n\nJohn William Brodie-Innes ( 10 March 1848 – 8 December 1923 ) was a leading member of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn's Amen-Ra Temple in Edinburgh.\n\nJ.W. Brodie- Innes was born at Downe in Kent, where his Scottish born father Rev. John Brodie Innes ( 1815-1894 ) had been Vicar from 1846. His father was a friend and confidant of a neighbour at Downe, Charles Darwin. A lawyer by profession, he was a member of the Sette of Odde Volumes ( a London bibliophile society ), and was its president in 1911. He wrote several novels on witchcraft and magic and is believed to have been one of Dion Fortune's occult teachers. (Fortune was also taught by such occult practitioners as Moina Mathers and Dr Theodore Moriarty).\n\nThroughout the dissensions of the Golden Dawn, Brodie-Innes remained loyal to MacGregor Mathers, and on the death of his chief in 1918 published an affectionate obituary titled \"MacGregor Mathers - Some Personal Reminiscences\" in the May 1919 issue of \"The Occult Review\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58773889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58773889", "title": "José Nakens", "text": "José Nakens\n\nJosé Nakens (1841–1926) was a Spanish journalist, anticlerical, and republican activist.\n\nFollowing his attempted bombing of Spanish King Alfonso XIII's vehicle on return from his wedding in May 1906, which killed 24 bystanders and military, wounded over 100, and left the royals unscathed, the anarchist fugitive Mateo Morral sought refuge from Nakens. Nakens was a vocal opponent of anarchism, but his anticlerical leadership attracted such radicals. Historians have disagreed as to whether Morral's choice of approaching Nakens was premeditated, but Morral was likely introduced to Nakens through Ferrer's school, which purchased the journalist's anticlerical writings. Morral introduced himself as the assassin upon entering Nakens' printing press and recounted how Nakens had previously helped Michele Angiolillo, the Italian anarchist who had assassinated the Spanish Prime Minister in 1897. Nakens was hesitant but agreed to help. He hid Morral at the press while arranging lodging for Morral, and returned 90 minutes later to transport him to a friend's house for the night. But Morral grew distrustful during the night and was gone by morning. The fugitive died a day later.\n\nOn the day of Morral's death, the republican journalist José Nakens had published a denunciation of the regicide attempt and terrorism writ large in his journal, \"El Motín\", without mentioning Morral or Nakens' own harboring of the fugitive. He was arrested within the week and the next day published a full accounting of his actions in two newspapers, in which he reaffirmed his opposition to anarchism, described Morral's attack as cowardly, and recanted his brief support of Morral as misguided but driven by his desire to help his fellow man.\n\nThe judgement in Nakens' case came easily. While the court believed that Nakens had no prior connection with Morral, they found that his planning for Morral was more deliberate than a brief lapse of judgement. They argued that this aid led to Morral's pre-suicide murder of a villager, and for this aid, sentenced Nakens to nine years of prison and financial restitution for the Royals, the military, and families affected by the bombing. Nakens' friends Bernardo Mata and Isidro Ibarra were jailed as well. Only half of his prison time between his June 1906 arrest and June 1907 sentencing was commuted. For Nakens' initial months, he could not bear to read the newspapers and was not aware of the republican campaign for his royal pardon.\n\nIn Madrid's Cárcel Modelo prison, Nakens became an advocate for prison reform. He received unlimited space in a republican daily newspaper, \"El País\", where he wrote about sordid prison conditions and, in turn, improved his standing with those previously upset by his harboring of Morral. Nakens wrote about prisoner malnourishment, disease, lack of heating, neglect from underpaid guards, and uncomforting clergy. He renewed calls for a more secular and humane prison system as a platform that combined his anticlericalism with the issue of prison reform.\n\nSimultaneously, a campaign mounted for Nakens' pardon. Even before his sentencing, republican papers called for his release, the prime minister and his cabinet received international letters daily, and prison officials described Nakens as a reformed, model prisoner. Ultimately, President Antonio Maura recommended the pardon of Nakens and his friends in May 1908, which Alfonso XIII granted.\n\nThe affair spotlighted Spanish republican fissures that would become an identity crisis, as Nakens impatiently broke from the gradualist philosophy of the old generation of republicans and both republican factions showed intransigence towards cooperation. Fallout from the affair appeared to favor the republican moderates (Gumersindo de Azcárate, Nicolás Salmerón), who condemned the radical, young republicans (Alejandro Lerroux, Vicente Blasco Ibáñez) and made Nakens appear, by juxtaposition, to be unstable. This schism appeared to hasten the coming revolution.\n\nIn hindsight, historian Enrique Sanabria proposes Nakens as a tragic parable: that Nakens' decision to hide Morral reflected a willingness to work with revolutionaries that, when pronounced, would ostracize him from his more moderate republican colleagues. Nakens was shortsighted to believe that his messages of egalitarianism, democracy, and cultural revolution would not appeal to the leftists he sought to avoid, and his popularity within anarchist and radical circles reflected anticlericalism's status as a uniting force across the left. But whereas anticlericalism was attached to nationalism for republicans like Nakens, it was not necessarily attached for anarchists and socialists. Nakens \"became political roadkill\" in the aftermath of the affair for his inability to draw an audience of workers while tolerating their revolutionary politics.\n\nUpon his release from prison, Nakens worked out of poverty until he could reopen \"El Motín\" in October 1908. Further radicalized, he planned to make radical anticlericalism its primary message. The periodical was present through the dictatorship of Miguel Primo de Rivera.\n"}
{"id": "44414413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44414413", "title": "Kongzi Jiayu", "text": "Kongzi Jiayu\n\nThe Kongzi Jiayu (), translated as The School Sayings of Confucius or Family Sayings of Confucius, is a collection of sayings of Confucius (Kongzi), written as a supplement to the \"Analects\" (\"Lunyu\").\n\nA book by the title had existed since at least the early Han dynasty (206 BC – 220 AD), and was listed in the 1st-century imperial bibliography \"Yiwenzhi\" with 27 scrolls. The extant version, however, was compiled by the Cao Wei official-scholar Wang Su (195–256 AD), and contains 10 scrolls and 44 sections.\n\nChinese scholars had long concluded that the received text was a 3rd-century forgery by Wang Su that had nothing to do with the original text of the same title, but this verdict has been overturned by archaeological discoveries of Western Han dynasty tombs at Dingzhou (55 BC) and Shuanggudui (165 BC).\n\nIn the postface to the \"Kongzi Jiayu\", its author describes the collection as discussions Confucius had with his disciples and others, recorded by his disciples. Selected discussions were published as the \"Analects\" (\"Lunyu\"), while the rest was collected in the \"Jiayu\". This characterization is consistent with the content of the \"Jiayu\", which contains nearly all the Confucian lore found in such diverse ancient texts as the \"Zuozhuan\", \"Guoyu\", \"Mencius\", \"Han Feizi\", \"Book of Rites\", \"Han Shi Waizhuan\", \"Lüshi Chunqiu\", \"Huainanzi\", etc., except what is included in the \"Analects\", the \"Classic of Filial Piety\", and a few other works.\n\nThe topics covered by the \"Kongzi Jiayu\" include Confucius' detailed ancestry, his parents, his birth, episodes and events from his life, and his sayings. His disciples also feature prominently, including one section devoted entirely to Yan Hui, Confucius' favourite. In all, 76 disciples are mentioned by name.\n\nThe postface to the \"Kongzi Jiayu\" asserts that it was compiled by Kong Anguo, an influential scholar and descendant of Confucius who lived in the 2nd century BC, from actual recordings of Confucius' sayings made by his disciples. Soon after Wang Su, who was a critic of the scholar Zheng Xuan, published his version of the \"Jiayu\", Ma Zhao (馬昭), a follower of Zheng, declared that it had been \"amended and enlarged\" by Wang.\n\nDespite lingering doubts about its authenticity, the \"Jiayu\" was influential throughout the Tang and Song dynasties. Sima Zhen, author of an important commentary to Sima Qian's \"Shiji\", valued it as highly as the \"Shiji\" itself. Zhu Xi, the leading Neo-Confucianist, also held it in high regard.\n\nA new rationalist intellectual movement, Han learning, gained influence during the Qing dynasty and began a thorough criticism of the \"Kongzi Jiayu\" and other purportedly authentic ancient works. A large number of scholars, including Sun Zhizu (孫志祖), Fan Jiaxiang (范家相), Yao Jiheng (姚際恒), Cui Shu (崔述), Pi Xirui (皮錫瑞), Wang Pinzhen (王聘珍), and Ding Yan, all reached the same verdict that the \"Jiayu\" was a forgery. Sun and Fan both wrote detailed analyses supporting their conclusion. Although the \"Jiayu\" had its defenders, represented by Chen Shike (陳士珂), they were a small minority.\n\nIn the 20th century, Gu Jiegang, the leading force of the highly influential Doubting Antiquity School, reaffirmed the Qing scholars' conclusion that the \"Kongzi Jiayu\" was a forgery by Wang Su, and called it \"worthless\" for the study of Confucius. As a result, few modern scholars studied the work.\n\nDue to the controversy surrounding the \"Kongzi Jiayu\", and the fact that much of its content was known from other ancient texts, early Western sinologists did not pay much attention to the work. A few, however, including James Legge, Alfred Forke, and Richard Wilhelm, believed the \"Jiayu\" was authentic, despite the forgery verdict reached by the Chinese scholars.\n\nRobert Paul Kramers translated the first ten sections of the \"Kongzi Jiayu\" into English, published in 1950 under the title \"K'ung Tzu Chia Yü: The School Sayings of Confucius\". In his introduction, Kramers rejects the possibility that Wang Su may have forged the entire work.\n\nIn 1973, Chinese archaeologists excavated a large Western Han dynasty tomb in Bajiaolang, Dingzhou, Hebei province, which was dated to 55 BC. Among the bamboo strips discovered in the tomb was a text entitled \"Ru Jia Zhe Yan\" (, \"Words of the Ru (Confucian) Lineage\"), which bears great similarities to the \"Kongzi Jiayu\".\n\nIn 1977, archaeologists discovered the Shuanggudui tomb, sealed in 165 BC, in Fuyang, Anhui province. A wooden board found in the tomb contains the table of contents of \"Ru Jia Zhe Yan\", which is also very similar to the received text of the \"Kongzi Jiayu\".\n\nThese archaeological discoveries, together with research on the Shanghai Museum bamboo slips, and publication of the \"Kongzi Jiayu\" text from the Dunhuang manuscripts in the British Library, have convinced many scholars that the received text of the \"Kongzi Jiayu\" could not have been forged by Wang Su, and could well have been compiled by Kong Anguo, as Wang had claimed. Scholars are now paying renewed attention to the text. Yang Chaoming (楊朝明), author of the 2005 book \"Kongzi Jiayu Tongjie\" (孔子家語通解), considers the \"Kongzi Jiayu\" no less valuable than the \"Analects\" to the study of Confucius.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37532162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37532162", "title": "Le Petit Tlemcenien", "text": "Le Petit Tlemcenien\n\nLe Petit Tlemcenien was a French language weekly newspaper published from Tlemcen, Algeria, serving the local Jewish community. It was founded in 1882.\n"}
{"id": "2362222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2362222", "title": "List of Quaker businesses, organizations and charities", "text": "List of Quaker businesses, organizations and charities\n\nThis is a list of notable businesses, organizations or charities founded by Quakers. Many of these are no longer managed or influenced by Quakers. At the end of the article are businesses that have never had any connection to Quakers, although some people may believe that they did or still do.\n\nSee separate List of Friends schools\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14836740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14836740", "title": "List of places named after Guru Nanak Dev", "text": "List of places named after Guru Nanak Dev\n\nThis is a list of places named after the first guru of Sikhs, Guru Nanak Dev Ji.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21619497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21619497", "title": "List of religious ideas in fantasy fiction", "text": "List of religious ideas in fantasy fiction\n\nReligious themes appear in fantasy fiction, including literature, film and television. These themes may be expressed directly, or through allegory and symbolism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11256029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11256029", "title": "List of theology journals", "text": "List of theology journals\n\nTheological journals are academic periodical publications in the field of theology. WorldCat returns about 4,000 items for the search subject \"Theology Periodicals\" and more than 2,200 for \"Bible Periodicals\". Some journals are listed below.\n\n"}
{"id": "3076424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3076424", "title": "Lucus Feroniae", "text": "Lucus Feroniae\n\nLucus Feroniae was an ancient sacred grove (\"lucus\") dedicated to the Sabine goddess Feronia. It was located in Etruria, across the ancient Via Tiberina, in what is now the territory of the modern commune of Capena, Lazio, next to the border with the neighbouring comune of Fiano Romano.\n\nIt was visited both by Latins and Sabines even in the time of Tullus Hostilius and was plundered by Hannibal in 211 BCE. In Imperial times it became an independent community receiving a colony of Octavian's veterans (\"Colonia Iulia felix Lucoferensis\") and possessing an amphitheatre, capable of housing up to 5,000 spectators, a basilica, a forum, baths and numerous other edifices. See \"Feronia (Etruria).\n\nA museum houses parts of statues, some of them with interchangeable hands and heads, depending from the current emperor ruling.\n\nThe villa of the Volusii Saturnini is located nearby.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "268259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268259", "title": "Maud Gonne", "text": "Maud Gonne\n\nMaud Gonne MacBride (, 21 December 1866 – 27 April 1953) was an English-born Irish revolutionary, suffragette and actress. Of Anglo-Irish descent, she was won over to Irish nationalism by the plight of evicted people in the Land Wars. She also actively agitated for Home Rule.\n\nShe was born at Tongham near Farnham, Surrey, as \"Edith Maud Gonne\", the eldest daughter of Captain Thomas Gonne (1835–86) of the 17th Lancers, whose ancestors hailed from Caithness in Scotland, and his wife, Edith Frith Gonne, born Cook (1844–71). After her mother died while Maud was still a child, her father sent her to a boarding school in France to be educated. \"The Gonnes came from County Mayo, but my great-great grandfather was disinherited and sought fortune abroad trading in Spanish wine,\" she wrote. \"My grandfather was head of a prosperous firm with houses in London and Oporto – he destined my father to take charge of the foreign business and had him educated abroad. My father spoke 6 languages but had little taste for business, so he got a commission in the English army; his gift for languages secured for him diplomatic appointments in Austria, the Balkans and Russia, and he was as much at home in Paris as in Dublin.\"\n\nIn 1882 her father, an army officer, was posted to Dublin. She accompanied him and remained with him until his death. She returned to France after a bout of tuberculosis and fell in love with a right wing politician, Lucien Millevoye. They agreed to fight for Irish independence and to regain Alsace-Lorraine for France. She returned to Ireland and worked tirelessly for the release of Irish political prisoners from jail. In 1889, she first met W. B. Yeats, who fell in love with her.\n\nIn 1890 she returned to France where she once again met Millevoye and had a son, Georges, with him. Georges died, possibly of meningitis, in 1891. Gonne was distraught, and buried him in a large memorial chapel built for him with money she had inherited. Her distress remained with her; in her will she asked for Georges's baby shoes to be interred with her, but made no mention of the daughter born a few years after him. In Dublin, London and Paris she was attracted to the occultist and spiritualist worlds deeply important to Yeats, asking his friends about the reality of reincarnation. In 1891 she briefly joined the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, a magical organisation with which Yeats had involved himself. Gonne separated from Millevoye after Georges' death, but in late 1893 she arranged to meet him at the mausoleum in Samois-sur-Seine and, next to the coffin, they had sexual intercourse. Her purpose was to conceive a baby with the same father, to whom the soul of Georges would transmigrate in metempsychosis. In August 1894 Gonne and Millevoye's daughter Iseult was born. At age 23, Iseult was proposed to by then-52-year-old William Butler Yeats, and she had a brief affair with Ezra Pound. At age 26, Iseult married the Irish-Australian novelist, Francis Stuart, who was then 18 years old.\n\nDuring the 1890s Gonne travelled extensively throughout England, Wales, Scotland and the United States campaigning for the nationalist cause, forming an organization called the \"Irish League\" (L'association irlandaise) in 1896. In 1899 her relationship with Millevoye ended.\n\nGonne, in opposition to the attempts of the British to gain the loyalty of the young Irish during the early 1900s, was known to hold special receptions for children. She, along with other volunteers, fought to preserve the Irish culture during the period of Britain's colonization, founding Inghinidhe na hÉireann Twenty-nine women attended the first meeting. They decided to \"combat in every way English influence doing so much injury to the artistic taste and refinement of the Irish people.\"\n\nIn her autobiography she wrote, \"I have always hated war and am by nature and philosophy a pacifist, but it is the English who are forcing war on us, and the first principle of war is to kill the enemy.\"\n\nIn 1897, along with Yeats and Arthur Griffith, she organised protests against Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee. In April 1902, she took a leading role in Yeats's play \"Cathleen Ní Houlihan\". She portrayed Cathleen, the \"old woman of Ireland,\" who mourns for her four provinces, lost to the English colonizers. She was already spending much of her time in Paris.\n\nIn the same year, she joined the Roman Catholic Church. She refused many marriage proposals from Yeats, not only because he was unwilling to convert to Catholicism or because she viewed him as insufficiently radical in his nationalism, but also because she believed his unrequited love for her had been a boon for his poetry and that the world should thank her for never having accepted his proposals. When Yeats told her he was not happy without her, she replied,\nIn the 30s she was involved in the Friends of Soviet Russia organisation.\n\nIn Paris in 1903, after having turned down at least four marriage proposals from Yeats between 1891 and 1901, Maud married Major John MacBride, who had led the Irish Transvaal Brigade against the British in the Second Boer War. The following year their son Seán MacBride was born. \nAfterwards Gonne and her husband agreed to end their marriage. She demanded sole custody of their son, but MacBride refused, and a divorce case began in Paris on 28 February 1905. The only charge against MacBride substantiated in court was that he had been drunk on one occasion during the marriage. A divorce was not granted, and MacBride was given the right to visit his son twice weekly.\n\nAfter the marriage ended, Gonne made allegations of domestic violence and, according to W. B. Yeats, of sexual molestation of Iseult, her daughter from a previous relationship, then aged eleven. Some critics have suggested that Yeats may have fabricated his allegations due to his hatred of MacBride over Maud’s rejection of him in favour of MacBride. Neither the divorce papers submitted by Gonne nor Iseult's own writings mention any such incident, which is unsurprising, given the reticence of the times around such matters, but Frances Stuart, Iseult's later husband, attests to Iseult telling him about it. The allegation concerning Iseult was made by Maud to Dr. Anthony MacBride, John's brother. Though Maud omitted it from court proceedings, the MacBride side raised it in court to have John's name cleared. As Maud wrote to Yeats, MacBride succeeded in this. Nevertheless, Yeats and some of his biographers still insisted on traducing John MacBride, insisting that Iseult was a victim. Some of them have gone so far as to omit entirely the fact that MacBride raised the matter in Court and was cleared by the Court of this allegation. In 1917 Yeats, in his fifties, proposed to the 23-year-old Iseult, who did not accept. He had known her since she was four, and often referred to her as his darling child and took a paternal interest in her writings. Many Dubliners wrongly suspected that Yeats was her father.\n\nMacBride visited his son as allowed for a short time, but returned to Ireland and never saw him again. Gonne raised the boy in Paris. MacBride was executed in May 1916 along with James Connolly and other leaders of the Easter Rising. After MacBride's death Gonne felt that she could safely return to live permanently in Ireland.\n\nYeats proposed to Iseult Gonne once again in 1918, and she considered the proposal. The three travelled back together to London, from France, where Iseult finally turned him down, because he was not really in love with her and it would upset her mother too much.\n\nGonne remained very active in Paris. In 1913, she established \"L'Irlande libre\", a French newspaper. She wanted Cumann na mBan to be considered seriously: her idea was to get affiliation with the English Red Cross, and wrote to Geneva to gain an international profile for the new nationalist organization. In 1918, she was arrested in Dublin and imprisoned in England for six months.\n\nShe worked with the Irish White Cross for the relief of victims of violence. Gonne MacBride moved in upper-class circles. Lord French's sister, Mrs Charlotte Despard was a famous suffragist, who was already a Sinn Feiner when she arrived in Dublin in 1920. She naturally accompanied Gonne on a tour of County Cork, seat of the most fervent revolutionary activity. Cork was under Martial Law Area (MLA) prohibited to Irishmen and women outside the zone. But the Viceroy's sister had a pass.\n\nIn 1921, she opposed the Treaty and advocated the Republican side. The committee that set up White Cross in Ireland asked Gonne to join in January 1921 to distribute funds to victims administered by Cumann na mBan. She settled in Dublin in 1922. During the street battles she headed up a delegation called The Women's Peace Committee which approached the Dáil leadership, and her old friend Arthur Griffith. But they were unable to stop the indiscriminate shooting of civilians, being more interested in law and order. In August she set up a similar organization, the Women's Prisoner's Defence League. The prisons were brutal and many women were locked up in men's prisons. The League supported families wanting news of inmates. They worked for prisoners rights, began vigils, and published stories of tragic deaths. Through her friendship with Despard and opposition to government they were labeled \"Mad and Madame Desperate\". Historians have related the extent of the damage done to her home at 75 St Stephen's Green, when soldiers of the Free State Army ransacked the place. Maud was arrested and taken to Mountjoy Jail. On 9 November 1922 the Sinn Féin Office was raided in Suffolk street; the Free State had swept the capital, rounding up opposition committing them to prison for internment. The evidence comes from Margaret Buckley, who as Secretary of Sinn Féin acted as legal representative for the ladies. But there was nothing prudish about their concerted opposition to civil rights abuses.\n\nOn 10 April 1923, Maud Gonne MacBride was arrested. The charges were: 1) painting banners for seditious demonstrations, and 2) preparing anti-government literature. According to the diary account of her colleague Hannah Moynihan: Last night [10th April] at 11pm, we heard the commotion which usually accompanies the arrival of new prisoners... we pestered the wardress and she told us there were four – Maud Gonne MacBride, her daughter Mrs Iseult Stuart and two lesser lights... Early this morning... we could see Maud walking majestically past our cell door leading on a leash a funny little lap dog which answered to the name that sounded like Wuzzo - Wuzzo. She was released on 28 April, after twenty days in custody. Months later the women spread a rumour that Nell Ryan had died in custody in order to gain a propaganda victory. Women continued to be arrested. On 1 June Maud was standing in protest outside Kilmainham Jail with Dorothy Macardle, the writer and activist, and Iseult Stuart. They were supporting hungerstriker Maire Comerford. Again the source for this story seems to be fellow ex-prisoner Hanna Moynihan.\n\nMany of Yeats's poems are inspired by her, or mention her, such as \"This, This Rude Knocking.\" He wrote the plays \"The Countess Cathleen\" and \"Cathleen ni Houlihan\" for her. His poem \"Aedh wishes for the Cloths of Heaven\" ends with a reference to her:\n\nI have spread my dreams under your feet; <br> Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.\n\nFew poets have celebrated a woman's beauty to the extent Yeats did in his lyric verse about Gonne. From his second book to \"Last Poems\", she became the Rose, Helen of Troy (in \"No second Troy\"), the Ledaean Body (\"Leda and the Swan\" and \"Among School Children\"), \"Cathleen Ní Houlihan\", Pallas Athene and Deirdre.\n\nWhy should I blame her that she filled my days <br> With misery, or that she late <br> Have taught to ignorant men most violent ways <br> Or hurled the little streets upon the great. <br> (from 'No second Troy', 1916)\n\nYeats's 1893 poem \"On a Child's Death\" is thought to have been inspired by the death of Gonne's son Georges, whom Yeats thought Gonne had adopted. The poem was not published in Yeats's lifetime; scholars say he did not want the poem to be part of his canon, as it is of uneven quality.\n\nMaud Gonne MacBride published her autobiography in 1938, titled \"A Servant of the Queen\", a reference to both a vision she had of the Irish queen of old, Cathleen (or Caitlin) Ní Houlihan and an ironic title considering Gonne's Irish Nationalism and rejection of the British monarchy.\n\nHer son, Seán MacBride, was active in politics in Ireland and in the United Nations. He was a founding member of Amnesty International and its Chairman, and he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1974.\n\nShe died in Clonskeagh, aged 86 and is buried in Glasnevin Cemetery, Dublin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34807978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34807978", "title": "Mouzi Lihuolun", "text": "Mouzi Lihuolun\n\nThe Mouzi Lihoulun () is a classic Chinese Buddhist text. It comprises a purportedly autobiographical preface by Master Mou, a late 2nd-century Confucian scholar-official who converted to Buddhism, and an imaginary dialogue of questions and answers about Buddhist practices.\n\nThe \"Mouzi lihuolun\" is known under several names, including the abbreviated title \"Mouzi\".\n\n\"Mouzi\" compounds the uncommon Chinese surname Mou 牟 \"seek; obtain\" with the suffix \"-zi\" 子 \"Master\" (compare Laozi). The Japanese title \"Bōshi riwakuron\" 牟氏理惑論 (Chinese \"Moushi lihuolun\") replaces \"shi\" (\"zi\") \"Master\" with \"shi\" (\"shi\") 氏 \"Mister; a certain person.\" \n\"Lihuolun\" combines \"li\" 理 \"manage; put in order; acknowledge\"; \"huo\" 惑 \"confusion; delusion; doubt; suspicion\"; and \"lun\" 論 \"discourse; opinion; dissertation; essay.\"\n\nAccording to Yu Jiaxi 余嘉錫 (Zürcher 2007:13), the original title \"Mouzi jihuolun\" 牟子治惑論 – with \"zhi\" 治 \"rule; research; manage; cure; eliminate\" instead of \"li\" – was changed to avoid the naming taboo on Emperor Gaozong of Tang's personal name Zhi 治.\n\nEnglish translations of \"Mouzi lihuolun\" include:\nSome renditions of shortened \"Lihuolun\" are:\n\nThe received \"Mouzi Lihuolun\" text contains a supposedly autobiographical Introduction, thirty-seven articles of Dialogue between Mouzi and an unnamed Chinese critic (or critics) questioning Buddhist practices, and a Postscript in which the critic converts to Buddhism.\n\nThe Introduction identifies the author as an Eastern Han Dynasty Confucian scholar who is not mentioned in any Han-era historical records. (Later editions give the name of Mou Rong 牟融.Compare the Tang Dynasty scholar also named Mou Rong 牟融.) After the death of Emperor Ling of Han in 189 CE, scholars, especially specialists of immortality fled the chaotic Yellow Turban Rebellion and moved to the extreme south of the empire, where Mouzi argued with them. Although very admirative of the Laozi, Mouzi, as he appears in the autobiographical introduction, was very hostile to immortality practices. He himself was born in Cangwu in Jiaozhou (present day Tonkin), where he studied the Confucian Classics, the Laozi and Buddhism. \n\nThe 37 \"Mouzi\" Dialogues treat early Chinese objections to Buddhism, such as coming from a foreign \"barbarian\" culture, not being mentioned in the Chinese classics, and the doctrine of reincarnation negating Daoist \"immortality\".\n\nHaircutting exemplified Chinese/Buddhist cultural problems. Buddhist tonsure required monks to shave their heads – but Confucian filial piety prohibited Chinese adults from cutting their hair (because it was ultimately a gift from one's parents). In Article 9, \"Filial Piety and Buddhist Practice\", the interlocutor quotes the \"Classic of Filial Piety\", as does Master Mou along with the \"Analects\".\nThe questioner said, \"The \"Classic of Filiality\" says, 'Our body, limbs, hair, and skin are all received from our fathers and mothers. We dare not injure them.' When Zengzi was about to die, he bared his hands and feet [to show them intact from harm]. But now the monks shave their heads. How this violates the sayings of the sages and is out of keeping with the way of the filial! …\"<br> \nMouzi said, … \"Confucius has said, 'There are those with whom one can pursue the Way … but with whom one cannot weigh [decisions].' This is what is meant by doing what is best at the time. Furthermore, the \"Classic of Filiality\" says, 'The early kings ruled by surpassing virtue and the essential Way.' Taibo cut his hair short and tattooed his body, thus following of his own accord the [foreign] customs of Wu and Yue and going against the spirit of the 'body, limbs, hair, and skin' passage. And yet Confucius praised him, saying that his might well be called the ultimate virtue.\" (tr. De Bary 1999:422)\n\nThe \"Mouzi\" text frequently explains Buddhism in Daoist terms; for instance, it calls Buddhism the \"Fodao\" 佛道 \"Buddha Dao\". Keenan (1994:150) said the author's rhetorical strategy was \"to graft the new branch of the Buddha Tao onto the trunk of classical Chinese culture, which is represented for him by the Confucian classics and the works of classical Taoism.\" To Mouzi, Daoism included the philosophical \"Daodejing\" and \"Zhuangzi\" but excluded Xuanxue \"Neo-Daoism\" and \"xian\" \"transcendent; immortal\" practices. For example, Article 30, \"Fasting: Buddhist and Daoist\", dismisses \"bigu\" 辟穀 \"abstention from grains (in order to gain immortality)\" (see Despeux 2008).\nA critic asked: Among the Taoists, some abstain from eating grain, yet they drink their wine and eat their meat. They claim that this is the method of Lao-tzu. But the Buddha Tao considers wine and meat to be absolutely prohibited, while it does allow one to eat grain. Why such a stark difference?<br>\nMou-tzu said: Such doctrines are trivial and trifling. None of their ninety-six teachings surpasses the Buddha in tranquility and nonaction. I have inspected the two sections of the Lao Tzu and have heard of his prohibition against the five tastes, but I have never found any place where he says that we should stop eating the five grains. The sage [i.e., Confucius] has arranged the text of the Seven Classics, but they contain no method of abstaining from grains. Lao wrote the Five Thousand Words but there is no mention of avoiding grains. The sage says, \"Those who eat grain are wise; those who eat grasses are fools. Those who eat meat are violent. Those who feed on the air are long-lived.\" (tr. Keenan 1994:151) \n\"Ninety-six teachings\" refers to the Buddhist Anguttara Nikaya's reckoning of heterodox teachings (Keenan 1994:148). The Five Grains and Five Tastes are aspects of Wuxing \"Five Phases\" theory.\n\nIn the Postscript (\"The Thirty-seven Factors\"), the interlocutory critic decides to take Buddhist lay vows because Mouzi's answers had resolved all doubts. The Postscript relates the 37 \"Mouzi\" articles with the 37 Buddhist Bodhipakkhiyādhammā factors of enlightenment and Daoist chapters 1-37 of the \"Daodejing\" (known as the \"Daojing\" section).\nA critic asked: Your understanding is truly comprehensive, and assuredly we have never heard the like. But why do you limit yourself to these thirty-seven articIes? Do you have a model? <br>\nMou-tzu said: Tumbleweeds drifted about and cartwheels were invented. Hollow wood floated and boats and oars were made. A spider spun his web and fine nets were woven. Bird prints were seen and written words were devised. Thus it is easy to complete a task with a model but difficult to do so without one. I have examined how the essence of the Buddha's scriptures have thirty-seven factors of awakening and how Lao-tzu's classic on the Tao also has thirty-seven chapters. These are my models.<br>\nWhen the doubters heard this, they became nervously deferential, paled, clasped their hands together, and backed away from their mats. Shrinking back in humility and prostrating themselves, they said, \"We are really backward and blind persons, born into a benighted backwater. We have presumed to utter foolish words and have not distinguished happiness from sorrow. But now, upon hearing your pronouncements, as suddenly as hot water melts the snow, we beg to change our feelings, cleanse our minds, and reform ourselves. May we please receive the five precepts and become lay followers?\" (tr. Keenan 1994:174-175) \nUpāsaka and Upāsikā male and female Buddhist lay devotees take vows to follow the Five Precepts code of ethics.\n\nScholars disagree over the historicity of Mouzi and the \"Lihuolun\". According to the Dutch sinologist Erik Zürcher (2007:13), \"The early history of the text (if it had one) is wholly obscure; the treatise is neither mentioned nor quoted anywhere before the second half of the fifth century.\" See Keenan (1994:3-7) and Zürcher (2007:13-15) for historical details.\n\nThe earliest catalog of Buddhist literature, Dao An's (374) \"Zongli zhongjing mulu\" 總理眾經目錄 \"Bibliographical Catalog Comprehensively Arranging the Sutra\", does not mention the \"Mouzi Lihuolun\". It was first recorded in the (c. 465) \"Falun\" 法論 \"Dharma Discourse\", Lu Cheng 陸澄's collection of Buddhist literature compiled for the devout Emperor Ming of Liu Song. Although the \"Falun\" is lost, its table of contents is included in Sengyou's (515) \"Chu sanzang jiji\" 出三藏記集 \"Collection of Records on the Translated Tripitaka\". Sengyou also edited the (517) \"Hongmingji\" 弘明集 \"Collection Aggrandizing and Clarifying [Buddhism]\" (Link 1960:28), which is the earliest source for the transmitted \"Mouzi\" text. Another early \"Mouzi Lihouhun\" reference is found in the \"Shishuo Xinyu\" commentary by Liu Chun 劉峻 (426-521). The text was later canonized as part of the Chinese Buddhist Canon.\n\nScholars have expressed diverse opinions about the \"Mouzi lihuolun\" date of composition (Lagerway 2010:1138).\n\nMany considered the text authentic and accepted that Mouzi composed it sometime between the final years of the Later Han Dynasty (25-220 CE) and the middle of the Three Kingdoms period (220-280). They include eminent scholars such as Sun Yirang, Hu Shih, Paul Pelliot, and Henri Maspero. Maspero dated the \"Mouzi\" from around 250 because its story of the Buddha’s life (Article 1) was probably copied from that of Zhi Qian's (c. 229) \"Taizi ruiying benqi jing\" 太子瑞應本起經 translation. The Japanese scholar Fukui Kōjun 福井康順 (1898–1991) reexamined these various theories and concluded that the \"Mouzi lihuolun\" text was written around the middle of the 3rd century.\n\nOther scholars have rejected the \"Mouzi\" as a spurious work that was falsely attributed to Mouzi. Hu Yinglin 胡應麟 (1551–1602) was first to deny the textual authenticity, and suggested that a scholar forged it during the Six Dynasties period (222-589). Liang Qichao considered it a falsification dating from the Eastern Jin Dynasty (317-420) or Liu Song Dynasty (420–479). \nThe Japanese Buddhologist Tokiwa Daijō 常盤大定 (1929–1945) argued that the text was concocted by the monk Huitong 慧通 (c. 426-c. 478), who is mentioned in Gu Huan 顧歡's \"Yixia lun\" 夷夏論 Daoist criticism of Buddhism. Tokiwa believed that Huitong or another later author created \"Mozi\" as an imaginary figure with a historical background linking him with some events and personalities known from other sources. Zürcher (2007:15) supported Tokiwa's argument by pointing out that the Preface's tone was too eulogistic to be autobiographical. \"Who could believe that a Chinese scholar would … claim that he 'has a complete understanding of civil as well as military affairs, and the talent to react independently (to any situation)'?\" He concluded that the Preface is \"an idealized description of the scholar-official who leads a retired life far from the bustle of the world.\"\n\nMost Chinese and foreign academics have interpreted the \"Mouzi lihuolun\" as an early Chinese Buddhist apologetic, for instance Maspero (1981:406) called Mouzi the \"first apologist for Buddhism.\" Keenan controverted this apologistic assumption because the text focuses more upon reinterpreting Chinese traditions than upon defending Buddhist teachings.\nThe argument is not over Buddhism itself, but over the validity of a Buddhist interpretation of the Chinese classics. The \"Li-huo lun\" is not, then, a Buddhist apologetic arguing for the doctrinal truth of Buddhism over against the Chinese traditions, but rather a culturally Chinese hermeneutic about how to interpret China's classical tradition, about the validity of a Buddhist hermeneutic of its classics. It is hermeneutics, not apologetics. (Keenan 1994:9-10) \nChan and Lo (2010:338) noted the treatise's ultimate reason for adhering to Buddhism \"lies in a deliberate calculation of moral reward, rather than a genuine faith in Buddhist dharma per se.\"\n\nWestern language translations of the \"Mouzi lihuolun\" include French by Paul Pelliot (1920) and English by John P. Keenan (1994), who employed reader-response criticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4848762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4848762", "title": "Murder of Margaret Ann Pahl", "text": "Murder of Margaret Ann Pahl\n\nOn May 11, 2006, retired Roman Catholic priest Gerald Robinson (April 14, 1938 – July 4, 2014) was convicted of the murder of Sister Margaret Ann Pahl (1908–1980), a Sister of Mercy, a Catholic religious order of women on Holy Saturday, April 5, 1980. Robinson repeatedly appealed, but without success. On July 4, 2014, Robinson died in prison.\n\nIn 1980 Robinson was the chaplain at Toledo Mercy Hospital, Toledo, Ohio, United States, where he ministered to the sick and terminally ill. Sister Margaret Ann was the caretaker of the chapel.\n\nRobinson was convicted of strangling and stabbing Pahl, who was 71 at the time, in the sacristy of a chapel of the hospital where they worked together. The priest presided at her funeral Mass four days after her death. Pahl was stabbed 31 times, including nine times in the shape of an inverted cross. Prosecutors considered this shape was deliberate and intended to humiliate Pahl in death. Pahl was found covered in an altar cloth, her clothes and body arranged to suggest she had been sexually assaulted, although it was not clear she had been.\n\nRobinson was questioned about the crime in 1980, but was not charged. Dean Mandros, the chief of the criminal division in the Lucas County prosecutor's office said as the priest was being questioned by detectives two weeks after the killing, Deputy Police Chief Ray Vetter, who later testified he was a practicing Catholic, interrupted the interview (which is not normal procedure) and allowed a monsignor to escort Father Robinson out of Police Headquarters, which \"upset the detectives to no end\". Mandros also said Vetter asked detectives to give him their reports on the case, and some of those reports were never seen again. A cover-up was alleged.\n\nThe case remained unsolved, with no new leads, until 2003 when police received a letter from a woman who claimed that Robinson had sexually abused her when she was a child in a series of Satanic ritual abuse that also involved human sacrifice. The woman, using the name \"Survivor Doe\", also filed a civil lawsuit against Robinson seeking financial damages for having been a victim of ritual abuse by Robinson and other adults dressed as nuns. The case was dismissed in 2011 due to having been filed too late.\n\nThe accusations were sent to the prosecutor's cold case unit. Forensic tests indicated a sword-shaped letter opener that had been found in Robinson's apartment and stored without detailed examination was consistent with the weapon that inflicted the wounds; in the words of the prosecutor's expert, it could \"not be ruled out\". The tip of the opener fitted a wound in the jaw of the nun's exhumed body \"like a key in a lock\" according to prosecutors.\n\nProsecutors also found three witnesses who said they had seen the priest near the chapel around the time of the killing. The case against Robinson went to trial on April 24, 2006. He was found guilty on all counts on May 11, 2006. This was the second conviction for homicide of a Catholic priest in the United States; Hans Schmidt, executed in 1916, was the first.\n\nOn July 11, 2008, Ohio's Sixth District Court of Appeals reaffirmed his conviction, and in December 2008 the Ohio Supreme Court declined to hear his appeal. In April 2012 he again applied for his conviction to be quashed, but in February 2013 the Ohio 6th District Court of Appeals confirmed the denial of Robinson’s petition for post-conviction relief. Robinson's attorney said the decision would shortly be appealed to the Ohio Supreme Court, and once state appeals were exhausted, the case could move to U.S. District Court. On July 4, 2014, Robinson died in prison, after a judge refused a request for him to be released to Toledo to die.\n\nThe case is described in the book \"Sin, Shame, And Secrets: The Murder of a Nun, the Conviction of a Priest, and Cover-up in the Catholic Church\" by Toledo journalist David Yonke.\n\nThe case was also re-examined in the A&E television show \"Dead Again\" where the original verdict was found to be consistent with the findings although one investigator did conclude there appeared to be enough uncertainty to not validate a verdict.\n\nRobinson died on July 4, 2014, at the Columbus, Ohio, hospice unit of Franklin Medical Center, a prison operated by the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Corrections, after a heart attack in May.\n\nFurther in depth information is available on a programme named 'on the case'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85529", "title": "Nerio", "text": "Nerio\n\nIn ancient Roman religion and myth, Nerio was an ancient war goddess and the personification of valor. She was the partner of Mars in ancient cult practices, and was sometimes identified with the goddess Bellona, and occasionally with the goddess Minerva. Spoils taken from enemies were sometimes dedicated to Nerio by the Romans. Nerio was later supplanted by mythologized deities appropriated and adapted from other religions.\n\n"}
{"id": "141833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=141833", "title": "Pete Seeger", "text": "Pete Seeger\n\nPeter Seeger (May 3, 1919 – January 27, 2014) was an American folk singer and social activist. A fixture on nationwide radio in the 1940s, he also had a string of hit records during the early 1950s as a member of the Weavers, most notably their recording of Lead Belly's \"Goodnight, Irene\", which topped the charts for 13 weeks in 1950. Members of the Weavers were blacklisted during the McCarthy Era. In the 1960s, Seeger re-emerged on the public scene as a prominent singer of protest music in support of international disarmament, civil rights, counterculture, and environmental causes.\n\nA prolific songwriter, his best-known songs include \"Where Have All the Flowers Gone?\" (with Joe Hickerson), \"If I Had a Hammer (The Hammer Song)\" (with Lee Hays of the Weavers), and \"Turn! Turn! Turn!\", which have been recorded by many artists both in and outside the folk revival movement and are sung throughout the world. \"Flowers\" was a hit recording for the Kingston Trio (1962); Marlene Dietrich, who recorded it in English, German and French (1962); and Johnny Rivers (1965). \"If I Had a Hammer\" was a hit for Peter, Paul and Mary (1962) and Trini Lopez (1963) while the Byrds had a number one hit with \"Turn! Turn! Turn!\" in 1965.\n\nSeeger was one of the folk singers responsible for popularizing the spiritual \"We Shall Overcome\" (also recorded by Joan Baez and many other singer-activists) that became the acknowledged anthem of the Civil Rights Movement, soon after folk singer and activist Guy Carawan introduced it at the founding meeting of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) in 1960. In the PBS \"American Masters\" episode \"\", Seeger said it was he who changed the lyric from the traditional \"We will overcome\" to the more singable \"We shall overcome\".\n\nSeeger was born on May 3, 1919, at the French Hospital, Midtown Manhattan. His Yankee-Protestant family, which Seeger called \"enormously Christian, in the Puritan, Calvinist New England tradition\", traced its genealogy back over 200 years. A paternal ancestor, Karl Ludwig Seeger, a doctor from Württemberg, Germany, had emigrated to America during the American Revolution and married into the old New England family of Parsons in the 1780s.\n\nSeeger's father, the Harvard-trained composer and musicologist Charles Louis Seeger, Jr., was born in Mexico City, Mexico, to American parents. Charles established the first musicology curriculum in the U.S. at the University of California in 1913, helped found the American Musicological Society, and was a key founder of the academic discipline of ethnomusicology. Pete's mother, Constance de Clyver (née Edson), raised in Tunisia and trained at the Paris Conservatory of Music, was a concert violinist and later a teacher at the Juilliard School.\nIn 1912, his father Charles Seeger was hired to establish the music department at the University of California, Berkeley, but was forced to resign in 1918 because of his outspoken pacifism during World War I. Charles and Constance moved back east, making Charles' parents' estate in Patterson, New York, northeast of New York City, their base of operations. When baby Pete was eighteen months old, they set out with him and his two older brothers in a homemade trailer to bring musical uplift to the working people in the American South. Upon their return, Constance taught violin and Charles taught composition at the New York Institute of Musical Art (later Juilliard), whose president, family friend Frank Damrosch, was Constance's adoptive \"uncle\". Charles also taught part-time at the New School for Social Research. Career and money tensions led to quarrels and reconciliations, but when Charles discovered Constance had opened a secret bank account in her own name, they separated, and Charles took custody of their three sons. Beginning in 1936, Charles held various administrative positions in the federal government's Farm Resettlement program, the WPA's Federal Music Project (1938–1940) and the wartime Pan American Union. After World War II, he taught ethnomusicology at the University of California and Yale University.\n\nCharles and Constance divorced when Pete was seven and in 1932 Charles married his composition student and assistant, Ruth Crawford, now considered by many to be one of the most important modernist composers of the 20th century. Deeply interested in folk music, Ruth had contributed musical arrangements to Carl Sandburg's extremely influential folk song anthology the \"American Songbag\" (1927) and later created significant original settings for eight of Sandburg's poems. Pete's eldest brother, Charles Seeger III, was a radio astronomer, and his next older brother, John Seeger, taught in the 1950s at the Dalton School in Manhattan and was the principal from 1960 to 1976 at Fieldston Lower School in the Bronx. Pete's uncle, Alan Seeger, a noted poet (\"I Have a Rendezvous with Death\"), had been one of the first American soldiers to be killed in World War I. All four of Pete's half-siblings from his father's second marriage – Margaret (Peggy), Mike, Barbara, and Penelope (Penny) – became folk singers. Peggy Seeger, a well-known performer in her own right, married British folk singer and activist Ewan MacColl. Mike Seeger was a founder of the New Lost City Ramblers, one of whose members, John Cohen, married Pete's half-sister Penny – also a talented singer who died young. Barbara Seeger joined her siblings in recording folk songs for children. In 1935, Pete attended Camp Rising Sun, an international leadership camp held every summer in upstate New York that influenced his life's work. He visited it most recently in 2012.\n\nIn 1943, Pete married Toshi Aline Ota, whom he credited with being the support that helped make the rest of his life possible. The couple remained married until Toshi's death in July 2013. Their first child, Peter Ōta Seeger, was born in 1944 and died at six months, while Pete was deployed overseas. Pete never saw him. They went on to have three more children: Daniel (an accomplished photographer and filmmaker), Mika (a potter and muralist), and Tinya (a potter), as well as grandchildren Tao Rodríguez-Seeger (a musician), Cassie (an artist), Kitama Cahill-Jackson (a psychotherapist), Moraya (a marriage and family therapist married to the NFL player Chris DeGeare), Penny, Isabelle, and great-grandchildren Dio and Gabel. Tao, a folk musician in his own right, sings and plays guitar, banjo, and harmonica with the Mammals. Kitama Jackson is a documentary filmmaker who was associate producer of the PBS documentary \"\".\n\nWhen asked by Beliefnet about his religious or spiritual beliefs, and his definition of God, Seeger replied:\n\nHe was a member of a Unitarian Universalist Church in New York.\n\nSeeger lived in Beacon, New York. He remained engaged politically and maintained an active lifestyle in the Hudson Valley region of New York throughout his life. He and Toshi purchased their land in 1949 and lived there first in a trailer, then in a log cabin they built themselves. Toshi died in Beacon on July 9, 2013, and Pete died in New York City on January 27, 2014.\n\nAt four, Seeger was sent away to boarding school but came home two years later when his parents learned the school had failed to inform them he had contracted scarlet fever. He attended first and second grades in Nyack, New York, where his mother lived, before entering boarding school in Ridgefield, Connecticut. Despite being classical musicians, his parents did not press him to play an instrument. On his own, the otherwise bookish and withdrawn boy gravitated to the ukulele, becoming adept at entertaining his classmates with it while laying the basis for his subsequent remarkable audience rapport. At thirteen, Seeger enrolled in the Avon Old Farms School in Avon, Connecticut, from which he graduated in 1936. He was selected to attend Camp Rising Sun, the George E. Jonas Foundation's international summer leadership program. During the summer of 1936, while traveling with his father and stepmother, Pete heard the five-string banjo for the first time at the Mountain Dance and Folk Festival in western North Carolina near Asheville, organized by local folklorist, lecturer, and traditional music performer Bascom Lamar Lunsford, whom Charles Seeger had hired for Farm Resettlement music projects. The festival took place in a covered baseball field. There the Seegers:\n\nwatched square-dance teams from Bear Wallow, Happy Hollow, Cane Creek, Spooks Branch, Cheoah Valley, Bull Creek, and Soco Gap; heard the five-string banjo player Samantha Bumgarner; and family string bands, including a group of Indians from the Cherokee reservation who played string instruments and sang ballads. They wandered among the crowds who camped out at the edge of the field, hearing music being made there as well. As Lunsford's daughter would later recall, those country people \"held the riches that Dad had discovered. They could sing, fiddle, pick the banjos, and guitars with traditional grace and style found nowhere else but deep in the mountains. I can still hear those haunting melodies drift over the ball park.\" \n\nFor the Seegers, experiencing the beauty of this music firsthand was a \"conversion experience\". Pete was deeply affected and, after learning basic strokes from Lunsford, spent much of the next four years trying to master the five-string banjo. The teenage Seeger also sometimes accompanied his parents to regular Saturday evening gatherings at the Greenwich Village loft of painter and art teacher Thomas Hart Benton and his wife Rita. Benton, a lover of Americana, played \"Cindy\" and \"Old Joe Clark\" with his students Charlie and Jackson Pollock; friends from the \"hillbilly\" recording industry; as well as avant-garde composers Carl Ruggles and Henry Cowell. It was at one of Benton's parties that Pete heard \"John Henry\" for the first time.\n\nSeeger enrolled at Harvard College on a partial scholarship, but as he became increasingly involved with politics and folk music, his grades suffered and he lost his scholarship. He dropped out of college in 1938. He dreamed of a career in journalism and took courses in art, as well. His first musical gig was leading students in folk singing at the Dalton School, where his aunt was principal. He polished his performance skills during a summer stint of touring New York State with The Vagabond Puppeteers (Jerry Oberwager, 22; Mary Wallace, 22; and Harriet Holtzman, 23), a traveling puppet theater \"inspired by rural education campaigns of post-revolutionary Mexico\". One of their shows coincided with a strike by dairy farmers. The group reprised its act in October in New York City. An article in the October 2, 1939, \"Daily Worker\" reported on the Puppeteers' six-week tour this way:\n\nThat fall Seeger took a job in Washington, D.C., assisting Alan Lomax, a friend of his father's, at the Archive of American Folk Song of the Library of Congress. Seeger's job was to help Lomax sift through commercial \"race\" and \"hillbilly\" music and select recordings that best represented American folk music, a project funded by the music division of the Pan American Union (later the Organization of American States), of whose music division his father, Charles Seeger, was head (1938–53). Lomax also encouraged Seeger's folk singing vocation, and Seeger was soon appearing as a regular performer on Alan Lomax and Nicholas Ray's weekly Columbia Broadcasting show \"Back Where I Come From\" (1940–41) alongside Josh White, Burl Ives, Lead Belly, and Woody Guthrie (whom he had first met at Will Geer's Grapes of Wrath benefit concert for migrant workers on March 3, 1940). \"Back Where I Come From\" was unique in having a racially integrated cast, which made news when it performed in March 1941 at a command performance at the White House organized by Eleanor Roosevelt called \"An Evening of Songs for American Soldiers,\" before an audience that included the Secretaries of War, Treasury, and the Navy, among other notables. The show was a success but was not picked up by commercial sponsors for nationwide broadcasting because of its integrated cast. During the war, Seeger also performed on nationwide radio broadcasts by Norman Corwin.\n\nIn 1949, Seeger worked as the vocal instructor for the progressive City and Country School in Greenwich Village, New York.\n\nIn 1936, at the age of 17, Pete Seeger joined the Young Communist League (YCL), then at the height of its popularity and influence. In 1942, he became a member of the Communist Party USA (CPUSA) itself but left in 1949.\n\nIn the spring of 1941, the twenty-one-year-old Seeger performed as a member of the Almanac Singers along with Millard Lampell, Cisco Houston, Woody Guthrie, Butch, and Bess Lomax Hawes, and Lee Hays. Seeger and the Almanacs cut several albums of 78s on Keynote and other labels, \"Songs for John Doe\" (recorded in late February or March and released in May 1941), the \"Talking Union\", and an album each of sea chanteys and pioneer songs. Written by Millard Lampell, \"Songs for John Doe\" was performed by Lampell, Seeger, and Hays, joined by Josh White and Sam Gary. It contained lines such as, \"It wouldn't be much thrill to die for Du Pont in Brazil,\" that were sharply critical of Roosevelt's unprecedented peacetime draft (enacted in September 1940). This anti-war/anti-draft tone reflected the Communist Party line after the 1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, which maintained the war was \"phony\" and a mere pretext for big American corporations to get Hitler to attack Soviet Russia. Seeger has said he believed this line of argument at the time—as did many fellow members of the Young Communist League (YCL). Though nominally members of the Popular Front, which was allied with Roosevelt and more moderate liberals, the YCL's members still smarted from Roosevelt and Churchill's arms embargo to Loyalist Spain (which Roosevelt later called a mistake), and the alliance frayed in the confusing welter of events.\n\nA June 16, 1941, review in \"Time\" magazine, which under its owner, Henry Luce, had become very interventionist, denounced the Almanacs' \"John Doe\", accusing it of scrupulously echoing what it called \"the mendacious Moscow tune\" that \"Franklin Roosevelt is leading an unwilling people into a J. P. Morgan war.\" Eleanor Roosevelt, a fan of folk music, reportedly found the album \"in bad taste,\" though President Roosevelt, when the album was shown to him, merely observed, correctly as it turned out, that few people would ever hear it. More alarmist was the reaction of eminent German-born Harvard Professor of Government Carl Joachim Friedrich, an adviser on domestic propaganda to the United States military. In a review in the June 1941 \"Atlantic Monthly\", entitled \"The Poison in Our System,\" he pronounced \"Songs for John Doe\" \"...strictly subversive and illegal,\" \"...whether Communist or Nazi financed,\" and \"a matter for the attorney general,\" observing further that \"mere\" legal \"suppression\" would not be sufficient to counteract this type of populist poison, the poison being folk music and the ease with which it could be spread.\n\nAt that point, the U.S. had not yet entered the war but was energetically re-arming. African Americans were barred from working in defense plants, a situation that greatly angered both African Americans and white progressives. Civil rights leader A. J. Muste and Black union leaders A. Philip Randolph and Bayard Rustin began planning a huge march on Washington to protest racial discrimination in war industries and to urge desegregation of the armed forces. The march, which many regard as the first manifestation of the Civil Rights Movement, was canceled after President Roosevelt issued Executive Order 8802 (The Fair Employment Act) of June 25, 1941, barring discrimination in hiring by companies holding federal contracts for defense work. This Presidential act defused black anger considerably, although the United States Army still refused to desegregate, declining to participate in what it considered social experimentation.\n\nRoosevelt's order came three days after Hitler broke the non-aggression pact and invaded the Soviet Union, at which time the Communist Party quickly directed its members to get behind the draft and forbade participation in strikes for the duration of the war (angering some leftists). Copies of \"Songs for John Doe\" were removed from sale, and the remaining inventory destroyed, though a few copies may exist in the hands of private collectors. The Almanac Singers' \"Talking Union\" album, on the other hand, was reissued as an LP by Folkways (FH 5285A) in 1955 and is still available. The following year, the Almanacs issued \"Dear Mr. President\", an album in support of Roosevelt and the war effort. The title song, \"Dear Mr. President\", was a solo by Pete Seeger, and its lines expressed his lifelong credo:\n\nSeeger's critics, however, continued to bring up the Almanacs' repudiated \"Songs for John Doe\". In 1942, a year after the \"John Doe\" album's brief appearance (and disappearance), the FBI decided that the now-pro-war Almanacs were still endangering the war effort by subverting recruitment. According to the New York \"World Telegram\" (February 14, 1942), Carl Friedrich's 1941 article \"The Poison in Our System\" was printed up as a pamphlet and distributed by the Council for Democracy (an organization that Friedrich and Henry Luce's right-hand man, C. D. Jackson, Vice President of \"Time\" magazine, had founded \"...to combat all the nazi, fascist, communist, pacifist...\" antiwar groups in the United States).\n\nSeeger served in the U.S. Army in the Pacific. He was trained as an airplane mechanic but was reassigned to entertain the American troops with music. Later, when people asked him what he did in the war, he always answered: \"I strummed my banjo.\" After returning from service, Seeger and others established People's Songs, conceived as a nationwide organization with branches on both coasts and designed to \"Create, promote and distribute songs of labor and the American People\" With Pete Seeger as its director, People's Songs worked for the 1948 presidential campaign of Roosevelt's former Secretary of Agriculture and Vice President, Henry A. Wallace, who ran as a third-party candidate on the Progressive Party ticket. Despite having attracted enormous crowds nationwide, however, Wallace won only in New York City and following the election he was excoriated for accepting the help in his campaign of Communists and fellow travelers such as Seeger and singer Paul Robeson.\n\nSeeger had been a fervent supporter of the Republican forces in the Spanish Civil War. In 1943, with Tom Glazer and Bess and Baldwin Hawes, he recorded an album of 78s called \"Songs of the Lincoln Battalion\" on Moe Asch's Stinson label. This included such songs as \"There's a Valley in Spain called Jarama\" and \"Viva la Quince Brigada\". In 1960, this collection was re-issued by Moe Asch as one side of a Folkways LP called \"Songs of the Lincoln and International Brigades\". On the other side was a reissue of the legendary \"Six Songs for Democracy\" (originally recorded in Barcelona in 1938 while bombs were falling), performed by Ernst Busch and a chorus of members of the Thälmann Battalion, made up of volunteers from Nazi Germany. The songs were: \"Moorsoldaten\" (\"Peat Bog Soldiers\", composed by political prisoners of German concentration camps); \"Die Thaelmann-Kolonne\", \"Hans Beimler\", \"Das Lied Von Der Einheitsfront\" (\"Song of The United Front\" by Hanns Eisler and Bertolt Brecht), \"Der Internationalen Brigaden\" (\"Song of the International Brigades\"), and \"Los cuatro generales\" (\"The Four Generals\", known in English as \"The Four Insurgent Generals\").\n\nAs a self-described \"split tenor\" (between an alto and a tenor), Pete Seeger was a founding member of two highly influential folk groups: the Almanac Singers and the Weavers. The Almanac Singers, which Seeger co-founded in 1941 with Millard Lampell and Arkansas singer and activist Lee Hays, was a topical group, designed to function as a singing newspaper promoting the industrial unionization movement, racial and religious inclusion, and other progressive causes. Its personnel included, at various times: Woody Guthrie, Bess Lomax Hawes, Sis Cunningham, Josh White, and Sam Gary. As a controversial Almanac singer, the 21-year-old Seeger performed under the stage name \"Pete Bowers\" to avoid compromising his father's government career.\n\nIn 1950, the Almanacs were reconstituted as the Weavers, named after the title of an 1892 play by Gerhart Hauptmann about a workers' strike (which contained the lines, \"We'll stand it no more, come what may!\"). They did benefits for strikers at which they sang songs such as 'Talking Union', about the struggles for unionisation of industrial workers such as miners and auto mobile workers. Besides Pete Seeger (performing under his own name), members of the Weavers included charter Almanac member Lee Hays, Ronnie Gilbert, and Fred Hellerman; later Frank Hamilton, Erik Darling, and Bernie Krause serially took Seeger's place. In the atmosphere of the 1950s red scare, the Weavers' repertoire had to be less overtly topical than that of the Almanacs had been, and its progressive message was couched in indirect language—arguably rendering it even more powerful. The Weavers on occasion performed in tuxedos (unlike the Almanacs, who had dressed informally) and their managers refused to let them perform at political venues. The Weavers' string of major hits began with \"On Top of Old Smoky\" and an arrangement of Lead Belly's signature waltz, \"Goodnight, Irene\", which topped the charts for 13 weeks in 1950 and was covered by many other pop singers. On the flip side of \"Irene\" was the Israeli song \"Tzena, Tzena, Tzena\". Other Weaver hits included \"Dusty Old Dust\" (\"So Long It's Been Good to Know You\" by Woody Guthrie), \"Kisses Sweeter Than Wine\" (by Hays, Seeger, and Lead Belly), and the South African Zulu song by Solomon Linda, \"Wimoweh\" (about Shaka), among others.\n\nThe Weavers' performing career was abruptly derailed in 1953 at the peak of their popularity when blacklisting prompted radio stations to refuse to play their records and all their bookings were canceled. They briefly returned to the stage, however, at a sold-out reunion at Carnegie Hall in 1955 and in a subsequent reunion tour, which produced a hit version of Merle Travis's \"Sixteen Tons\" as well as LPs of their concert performances. \"Kumbaya\", a Gullah black spiritual dating from slavery days, was also introduced to wide audiences by Pete Seeger and the Weavers (in 1959), becoming a staple of Boy and Girl Scout campfires.\n\nIn the late 1950s, the Kingston Trio was formed in direct imitation of (and homage to) the Weavers, covering much of the latter's repertoire, though with a more buttoned-down, uncontroversial, and mainstream collegiate persona. The Kingston Trio produced another phenomenal succession of Billboard chart hits and in its turn spawned a legion of imitators, laying the groundwork for the 1960s commercial folk revival.\n\nIn the documentary film \"\" (2007), Seeger states that he resigned from the Weavers when the three other band members agreed to perform a jingle for a cigarette commercial.\n\nIn 1948, Seeger wrote the first version of his now-classic \"How to Play the Five-String Banjo\", a book that many banjo players credit with starting them off on the instrument. He went on to invent the \"Long Neck\" or \"Seeger\" banjo. This instrument is three frets longer than a typical banjo, is slightly longer than a bass guitar at 25 frets, and is tuned a minor third lower than the normal 5-string banjo. Hitherto strictly limited to the Appalachian region, the five-string banjo became known nationwide as the American folk instrument par excellence, largely thanks to Seeger's championing of and improvements to it. According to an unnamed musician quoted in David King Dunaway's biography, \"by nesting a resonant chord between two precise notes, a melody note and a chiming note on the fifth string\", Pete Seeger \"gentrified\" the more percussive traditional Appalachian \"frailing\" style, \"with its vigorous hammering of the forearm and its percussive rapping of the fingernail on the banjo head.\" Although what Dunaway's informant describes is the age-old droned frailing style, the implication is that Seeger made this more acceptable to mass audiences by omitting some of its percussive complexities, while presumably still preserving the characteristic driving rhythmic quality associated with the style.\n\nFrom the late 1950s on, Seeger also accompanied himself on the 12-string guitar, an instrument of Mexican origin that had been associated with Lead Belly, who had styled himself \"the King of the 12-String Guitar\". Seeger's distinctive custom-made guitars had a triangular soundhole. He combined the long scale length (approximately 28\") and capo-to-key techniques that he favored on the banjo with a variant of drop-D (DADGBE) tuning, tuned two whole steps down with very heavy strings, which he played with thumb and finger picks.\n\nIn 1956, then \"Peter\" Seeger (see film credits) and his wife, Toshi, traveled to Port of Spain, Trinidad, to seek out information on the steelpan, steel drum or \"Ping-Pong\" as it was sometimes called. The two searched out a local panyard director Isaiah and proceeded to film the construction, tuning and playing of the then new, national instrument of Trinidad-Tobago. He was attempting to include the unique flavor of the steel pan into American Folk music.\n\nIn the 1950s and, indeed, consistently throughout his life, Seeger continued his support of civil and labor rights, racial equality, international understanding, and anti-militarism (all of which had characterized the Wallace campaign) and he continued to believe that songs could help people achieve these goals. With the ever-growing revelations of Joseph Stalin's atrocities and the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, however, he became increasingly disillusioned with Soviet Communism. He left the CPUSA in 1949 but remained friends with some who did not leave it, though he argued with them about it.\n\nOn August 18, 1955, Seeger was subpoenaed to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC). Alone among the many witnesses after the 1950 conviction and imprisonment of the Hollywood Ten for contempt of Congress, Seeger refused to plead the Fifth Amendment (which would have asserted that his testimony might be self incriminating) and instead, as the Hollywood Ten had done, refused to name personal and political associations on the grounds that this would violate his First Amendment rights: \"I am not going to answer any questions as to my association, my philosophical or religious beliefs or my political beliefs, or how I voted in any election, or any of these private affairs. I think these are very improper questions for any American to be asked, especially under such compulsion as this.\" Seeger's refusal to answer questions that violated his fundamental Constitutional rights led to a March 26, 1957, indictment for contempt of Congress; for some years, he had to keep the federal government apprised of where he was going any time he left the Southern District of New York. He was convicted in a jury trial of contempt of Congress in March 1961, and sentenced to ten 1-year terms in jail (to be served simultaneously), but in May 1962, an appeals court ruled the indictment to be flawed and overturned his conviction.\n\nIn 1960, the San Diego school board told him that he could not play a scheduled concert at a high school unless he signed an oath pledging that the concert would not be used to promote a communist agenda or an overthrow of the government. Seeger refused, and the American Civil Liberties Union obtained an injunction against the school district, allowing the concert to go on as scheduled. Almost 50 years later, in February 2009, the San Diego School District officially extended an apology to Seeger for the actions of their predecessors.\n\nTo earn money during the blacklist period of the late 1950s and early 1960s, Seeger worked gigs as a music teacher in schools and summer camps, and traveled the college campus circuit. He also recorded as many as five albums a year for Moe Asch's Folkways Records label. As the nuclear disarmament movement picked up steam in the late 1950s and early 1960s, Seeger's anti-war songs, such as, \"Where Have All the Flowers Gone?\" (co-written with Joe Hickerson), \"Turn! Turn! Turn!\", adapted from the Book of Ecclesiastes, and \"The Bells of Rhymney\" by the Welsh poet Idris Davies (1957), gained wide currency. Seeger also was closely associated with the Civil Rights Movement and in 1963 helped organize a landmark Carnegie Hall concert, featuring the youthful Freedom Singers, as a benefit for the Highlander Folk School in Tennessee. This event and Martin Luther King's March on Washington in August of that year brought the Civil Rights anthem \"We Shall Overcome\" to wide audiences where he sang it on the 50-mile walk from Selma to Montgomery, Ala. along with 1,000 other marchers.\nBy this time, Seeger was a senior figure in the 1960s folk revival centered in Greenwich Village, as a longtime columnist in \"Sing Out!\", the successor to the People's Songs \"Bulletin\", and as a founder of the topical \"Broadside\" magazine. To describe the new crop of politically committed folk singers, he coined the phrase \"Woody's children\", alluding to his associate and traveling companion, Woody Guthrie, who by this time had become a legendary figure. This urban folk-revival movement, a continuation of the activist tradition of the 1930s and 1940s and of People's Songs, used adaptations of traditional tunes and lyrics to effect social change, a practice that goes back to the Industrial Workers of the World or Wobblies' \"Little Red Song Book\", compiled by Swedish-born union organizer Joe Hill (1879–1915). (The \"Little Red Song Book\" had been a favorite of Woody Guthrie's, who was known to carry it around.)\n\nSeeger toured Australia in 1963. His single \"Little Boxes\", written by Malvina Reynolds, was number one in the nation's Top 40s. That tour sparked a folk boom throughout the country at a time when popular music tastes, post-Kennedy assassination, competed between folk, the surfing craze, and the British rock boom which gave the world the Beatles and The Rolling Stones, among others. Folk clubs sprung up all over the nation, folk performers were accepted in established venues, and Australian performers singing Australian folk songs – many of their own composing – emerged in concerts and festivals, on television, and on recordings, and overseas performers were encouraged to tour Australia.\n\nThe long television blacklist of Seeger began to end in the mid-1960s, when he hosted a regionally broadcast, educational, folk-music television show, \"Rainbow Quest\". Among his guests were Johnny Cash, June Carter, Reverend Gary Davis, Mississippi John Hurt, Doc Watson, the Stanley Brothers, Elizabeth Cotten, Patrick Sky, Buffy Sainte-Marie, Tom Paxton, Judy Collins, Hedy West, Donovan, The Clancy Brothers, Richard Fariña and Mimi Fariña, Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee, Mamou Cajun Band, Bernice Johnson Reagon, The Beers Family, Roscoe Holcomb, Malvina Reynolds, Sonia Malkine, and Shawn Phillips. Thirty-nine hour-long programs were recorded at WNJU's Newark studios in 1965 and 1966, produced by Seeger and his wife Toshi, with Sholom Rubinstein. The Smothers Brothers ended Seeger's national blacklisting by broadcasting him singing \"Waist Deep in the Big Muddy\" on their CBS variety show on February 25, 1968, after his similar performance in September 1967 was censored by CBS.\n\nIn November 1976, Seeger wrote and recorded the anti-death penalty song \"Delbert Tibbs\", about the eponymous death-row inmate, who was later exonerated. Seeger wrote the music and selected the words from poems written by Tibbs.\nSeeger also supported the Jewish Camping Movement. He came to Surprise Lake Camp in Cold Spring, New York, over the summer many times. He sang and inspired countless campers.\n\nPete Seeger was one of the earliest backers of Bob Dylan and was responsible for urging A&R man John Hammond to produce Dylan's first LP on Columbia, and for inviting him to perform at the Newport Folk Festival, of which Seeger was a board member. There was a widely repeated story that Seeger was so upset over the extremely loud amplified sound that Dylan, backed by members of the Butterfield Blues Band, brought into the 1965 Newport Folk Festival that he threatened to disconnect the equipment. There are multiple versions of what went on, some fanciful. What is certain is that tensions had been running high between Dylan's manager Albert Grossman and Festival Board members (who besides Seeger also included Theodore Bikel, Bruce Jackson, Alan Lomax, festival MC Peter Yarrow, and George Wein) over the scheduling of performers and other matters. Two days earlier, there had been a scuffle and brief exchange of blows between Grossman and Alan Lomax, and the Board in an emergency session had voted to ban Grossman from the grounds but had backed off when George Wein pointed out that Grossman also managed highly popular draws Odetta and Peter, Paul and Mary. Seeger has been portrayed as a folk \"purist\" who was one of the main opponents to Dylan's \"going electric\". but when asked in 2001 about how he recalled his \"objections\" to the electric style, he said:\n\nI couldn't understand the words. I wanted to hear the words. It was a great song, \"Maggie's Farm,\" and the sound was distorted. I ran over to the guy at the controls and shouted, \"Fix the sound so you can hear the words.\" He hollered back, \"This is the way they want it.\" I said \"Damn it, if I had an axe, I'd cut the cable right now.\" But I was at fault. I was the MC, and I could have said to the part of the crowd that booed Bob, \"you didn't boo Howlin' Wolf yesterday. He was electric!\" Though I still prefer to hear Dylan acoustic, some of his electric songs are absolutely great. Electric music is the vernacular of the second half of the twentieth century, to use my father's old term.\n\nA longstanding opponent of the arms race and of the Vietnam War, Seeger satirically attacked then-President Lyndon Johnson with his 1966 recording, on the album \"Dangerous Songs!?\", of Len Chandler's children's song, \"Beans in My Ears\". Beyond Chandler's lyrics, Seeger said that \"Mrs. Jay's little son Alby\" had \"beans in his ears,\" which, as the lyrics imply, ensures that a person does not hear what is said to them. To those opposed to continuing the Vietnam War, the phrase implied that \"Alby Jay\", a loose pronunciation of Johnson's nickname \"LBJ,\" did not listen to anti-war protests as he too had \"beans in his ears\".\n\nDuring 1966, Seeger and Malvina Reynolds took part in environmental activism. The album \"God Bless the Grass\" was released on January of that year and became the first album in history wholly dedicated to songs about environmental issues. Their politics were informed by the same ideologies of nationalism, populism, and criticism of big business.\n\nSeeger attracted wider attention starting in 1967 with his song \"Waist Deep in the Big Muddy\", about a captain—referred to in the lyrics as \"the big fool\"—who drowned while leading a platoon on maneuvers in Louisiana during World War II. With its lyrics about a platoon being led into danger by an ignorant captain, the song's anti-war message was obvious- the line \"the big fool said to push on\" is repeated several times. In the face of arguments with the management of CBS about whether the song's political weight was in keeping with the usually light-hearted entertainment of the \"Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour\", the final lines were \"Every time I read the paper/those old feelings come on/We are waist deep in the Big Muddy and the big fool says to push on.\" The lyrics could be interpreted as an allegory of Johnson as the \"big fool\" and the Vietnam War as the foreseeable danger. Although the performance was cut from the September 1967 show, after wide publicity, it was broadcast when Seeger appeared again on the Smothers' Brothers show in the following January.\n\nAt the November 15, 1969, Vietnam Moratorium March on Washington, DC, Seeger led 500,000 protesters in singing John Lennon's song \"Give Peace a Chance\" as they rallied across from the White House. Seeger's voice carried over the crowd, interspersing phrases like, \"Are you listening, Nixon?\" between the choruses of protesters singing, \"All we are saying ... is give peace a chance\".\n\nInspired by Woody Guthrie, whose guitar was labeled \"This machine kills fascists\" Seeger's banjo was emblazoned with the motto \"This Machine Surrounds Hate and Forces It to Surrender.\"\n\nIn the documentary film \"The Power of Song\", Seeger mentions that he and his family visited North Vietnam in 1972.\n\nBeing a supporter of progressive labor unions, Seeger had supported Ed Sadlowski in his bid for the presidency of the United Steelworkers of America. In 1977, Seeger appeared at a fundraiser in Homestead, Pennsylvania. In 1978, Seeger joined American folk, blues, and jazz singer Barbara Dane at a rally in New York for striking coal miners.\n\nIn 1980, Pete Seeger performed in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The performance was later released by Smithsonian Folkways as the album \"Singalong Sanders Theater, 1980\".\n\nThe most discussed pollution of the Hudson River is General Electric's contamination of the river with Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) between 1947 and 1977. This pollution caused a range of harmful effects to wildlife and people who eat fish from the river or drink the water. In response to this contamination, activists protested in various ways. Musician Pete Seeger founded the Hudson River Sloop Clearwater and the Clearwater Festival to draw attention to the problem. The activism led to the site being designated as one of the superfund sites.\n\nIn 1982, Seeger performed at a benefit concert for Poland's Solidarity resistance movement. His biographer David Dunaway considers this the first public manifestation of Seeger's decades-long personal dislike of communism in its Soviet form. In the late 1980s Seeger also expressed disapproval of violent revolutions, remarking to an interviewer that he was really in favor of incremental change and that \"the most lasting revolutions are those that take place over a period of time.\" In his autobiography \"Where Have All the Flowers Gone\" (1993, 1997, reissued in 2009), Seeger wrote, \"Should I apologize for all this? I think so.\" He went on to put his thinking in context:\n\nHow could Hitler have been stopped? Litvinov, the Soviet delegate to the League of Nations in '36, proposed a worldwide quarantine but got no takers. For more on those times check out pacifist Dave Dellinger's book, \"From Yale to Jail ...\" At any rate, today I'll apologize for a number of things, such as thinking that Stalin was merely a \"hard driver\" and not a \"supremely cruel misleader.\" I guess anyone who calls himself a Christian should be prepared to apologize for the Inquisition, the burning of heretics by Protestants, the slaughter of Jews and Muslims by Crusaders. White people in the U.S.A. ought to apologize for stealing land from Native Americans and enslaving blacks. Europeans could apologize for worldwide conquests, Mongolians for Genghis Khan. And supporters of Roosevelt could apologize for his support of Somoza, of Southern White Democrats, of Franco Spain, for putting Japanese Americans in concentration camps. Who should my granddaughter Moraya apologize to? She's part African, part European, part Chinese, part Japanese, part Native American. Let's look ahead.\n\nIn a 1995 interview, however, he insisted that \"I still call myself a communist, because communism is no more what Russia made of it than Christianity is what the churches make of it.\"\nIn recent years, as the aging Seeger began to garner awards and recognition for his lifelong activism, he also found himself criticized once again for his opinions and associations of the 1930s and 1940s. In 2006, David Boaz—Voice of America and NPR commentator and president of the libertarian Cato Institute—wrote an opinion piece in \"The Guardian\", entitled \"Stalin's Songbird\" in which he excoriated \"The New Yorker\" and \"The New York Times\" for lauding Seeger. He characterized Seeger as \"someone with a longtime habit of following the party line\" who had only \"eventually\" parted ways with the CPUSA. In support of this view, he quoted lines from the Almanac Singers' May 1941 \"Songs for John Doe\", contrasting them darkly with lines supporting the war from \"Dear Mr. President\", issued in 1942, after the United States and the Soviet Union had entered the war.\n\nIn 2007, in response to criticism from a historian Ron Radosh, a former Trotskyite who now writes for the conservative \"National Review\"—Seeger wrote a song condemning Stalin, \"Big Joe Blues\": \n\nI'm singing about old Joe, cruel Joe. / He ruled with an iron hand. /He put an end to the dreams / Of so many in every land. / He had a chance to make / A brand new start for the human race. / Instead he set it back / Right in the same nasty place. / I got the Big Joe Blues. / Keep your mouth shut or you will die fast. / I got the Big Joe Blues. / Do this job, no questions asked. / I got the Big Joe Blues. \n\nThe song was accompanied by a letter to Radosh, in which Seeger stated, \"I think you're right, I should have asked to see the gulags when I was in U.S.S.R [in 1965].\"\n\nOn March 16, 2007, Pete Seeger, his sister Peggy, his brothers Mike and John, his wife Toshi, and other family members spoke and performed at a symposium and concert sponsored by the American Folklife Center in honor of the Seeger family, held at the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C., where Pete Seeger had been employed by the Archive of American Folk Song 67 years earlier.\n\nIn September 2008, Appleseed Recordings released \"At 89\", Seeger's first studio album in 12 years. On September 29, 2008, the 89-year-old singer-activist, once banned from commercial TV, made a rare national TV appearance on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", singing \"Take It From Dr. King\".\n\nOn January 18, 2009, Seeger and his grandson Tao Rodríguez-Seeger joined Bruce Springsteen, and the crowd in singing the Woody Guthrie song \"This Land Is Your Land\" in the finale of Barack Obama's Inaugural concert in Washington, D.C. The performance was noteworthy for the inclusion of two verses not often included in the song, one about a \"private property\" sign the narrator cheerfully ignores, and the other making a passing reference to a Depression-era relief office.\n\nOver the years, he lent his fame to support numerous environmental organizations, including South Jersey's Bayshore Center, the home of New Jersey's tall ship, the oyster schooner A.J. Meerwald. Seeger's benefit concerts helped raise funds for groups so they could continue to educate and spread environmental awareness. On May 3, 2009, at the Clearwater Concert, dozens of musicians gathered in New York at Madison Square Garden to celebrate Seeger's 90th birthday (which was later televised on PBS during the summer), ranging from Dave Matthews, John Mellencamp, Billy Bragg, Bruce Springsteen, Tom Morello, Eric Weissberg, Ani DiFranco and Roger McGuinn to Joan Baez, Richie Havens, Joanne Shenandoah, R. Carlos Nakai, Bill Miller, Joseph Fire Crow, Margo Thunderbird, Tom Paxton, Ramblin' Jack Elliott, and Arlo Guthrie. Cuban singer-songwriter Silvio Rodríguez was also invited to appear but his visa was not approved in time by the United States government. Consistent with Seeger's long-time advocacy for environmental concerns, the proceeds from the event benefited the Hudson River Sloop Clearwater, a non-profit organization founded by Seeger in 1966, to defend and restore the Hudson River. Seeger's 90th Birthday was also celebrated at The College of Staten Island on May 4.\nOn September 19, 2009, Seeger made his first appearance at the 52nd Monterey Jazz Festival, which was particularly notable because the festival does not normally feature folk artists.\n\nIn 2010, still active at the age of 91, Seeger co-wrote and performed the song \"God's Counting on Me, God's Counting on You\" with Lorre Wyatt, commenting on the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. A performance of the song by Seeger, Wyatt, and friends was recorded and filmed aboard the Sloop Clearwater in August for a single and video produced by Richard Barone and Matthew Billy, released on election day November 6, 2012.\n\nOn October 21, 2011, at age 92, Pete Seeger was part of a solidarity march with Occupy Wall Street to Columbus Circle in New York City. The march began with Seeger and fellow musicians exiting Symphony Space (95th and Broadway), where they had performed as part of a benefit for Seeger's Clearwater organization. Thousands of people crowded Pete Seeger by the time they reached Columbus Circle where he performed with his grandson, Tao Rodríguez-Seeger, Arlo Guthrie, David Amram, and other celebrated musicians. The event, promoted under the name OccupyTheCircle, was live streamed, and dubbed by some as \"The Pete Seeger March\".\n\nOn December 14, 2012, Seeger performed, along with Harry Belafonte, Jackson Browne, Common, and others, at a concert to bring awareness to the 37-year-long ordeal of Native American Activist Leonard Peltier. The concert was held at the Beacon Theater in New York City.\n\nOn April 9, 2013, Hachette Audio Books issued an audiobook entitled \"Pete Seeger: The Storm King; Stories, Narratives, Poems\". This two-CD spoken-word work was conceived of and produced by noted percussionist Jeff Haynes and presents Pete Seeger telling the stories of his life against a background of music performed by more than 40 musicians of varied genres. The launch of the audiobook was held at the on April 11, 2013, to an enthusiastic audience of around two hundred people, and featured many of the musicians from the project (among them Samite, Dar Williams, Dave Eggar, and Richie Stearns of the Horse Flies and Natalie Merchant) performing live under the direction of producer and percussionist Haynes. April 15, 2013, Sirius XM Book Radio presented the concert as a special episode of \"Cover to Cover Live with Maggie Linton and Kim Alexander\" entitled \"Pete Seeger: The Storm King and Friends.\"\n\nOn August 9, 2013, one month widowed, Seeger was in New York City for the 400-year commemoration of the Two Row Wampum Treaty between the Iroquois and the Dutch. On an interview he gave that day to Democracy Now!, Seeger sang \"I Come and Stand at Every Door\" as it was also the 68th anniversary of bombing of Nagasaki.\n\nOn September 21, 2013, Pete Seeger performed at Farm Aid at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center in Saratoga Springs, New York. Joined by Wille Nelson, Neil Young, John Mellencamp, and Dave Matthews, he sang \"This Land Is Your Land\" and included a verse he said he had written specifically for the Farm Aid concert.\n\nSeeger died at New York-Presbyterian Hospital on January 27, 2014, at the age of 94. Response and reaction to Seeger's death quickly poured in. President Barack Obama noted that Seeger had been called \"America's tuning fork\" and that he believed in \"the power of song\" to bring social change, \"Over the years, Pete used his voice and his hammer to strike blows for workers' rights and civil rights; world peace and environmental conservation, and he always invited us to sing along. For reminding us where we come from and showing us where we need to go, we will always be grateful to Pete Seeger.\" Folksinger and fellow activist Billy Bragg wrote that: \"Pete believed that music could make a difference. Not change the world, he never claimed that – he once said that if music could change the world he'd only be making music – but he believed that while music didn't have agency, it did have the power to make a difference.\" Bruce Springsteen said of Seeger's death, \"I lost a great friend and a great hero last night, Pete Seeger\", before performing \"We Shall Overcome\" while on tour in South Africa.\n\n\n\nSeeger has been the recipient of many awards and recognitions throughout his career, including:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2359368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2359368", "title": "Protodeacon", "text": "Protodeacon\n\nProtodeacon derives from the Greek \"proto-\" meaning 'first' and \"diakonos\", which is a standard ancient Greek word meaning \"assistant\", \"servant\", or \"waiting-man\". The word in English may refer to any of various clergy, depending upon the usage of the particular church in question.\n\nProtodeacon is an honorific rank given to certain married deacons in Eastern Christian churches. In the Russian Orthodox Church it is an honorary title given to married deacons, as a mark of which, the clergyman is entitled to wear a burgundy-colored skufia. The equivalent rank for Hierodeacons—i.e., monastic deacons—is Archdeacon. The senior deacon of a cathedral or principal church may be awarded the title of protodeacon. In the Greek usage, the chief deacon who is attached to the person of a bishop is called an archdeacon. In the Slavic usage a protodeacon or archdeacon wears a distinctive orarion (deacon's stole). \n\nThe title of protodeacon is an award, not a distinctive order of ministry; so while a man may be ordained a deacon, he is said to be 'elevated' to the rank of protodeacon. This elevation may be awarded only by the deacon's own ruling bishop. The rite of elevation is identical for both a protodeacon and an archdeacon, and is normally done during the Little Entrance of the Divine Liturgy. \n\nA protodeacon has precedence when serving with other deacons, regardless of the date of his own ordination to the diaconate. If several protodeacons serve at the same time, their order of precedence is determined by the date of their elevation.\n\nIn the \"Archieratikon\" (Slavonic: \"Chinovnik\"), the liturgical book containing the services as celebrated by a bishop, the term Protodeacon is used to refer to the senior-ranking deacon who is serving, regardless of whether or not he has actually had that rank bestowed upon him.\n\nIn the Roman rite, the senior Cardinal Deacon is the Cardinal Protodeacon of the Holy Roman Church. He has the privilege of announcing the new Pope's election and name (once he has been ordained to the Episcopate) in the Habemus Papam announcement given from the central balcony at St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City State. In the past, during papal coronations, the Proto-Deacon also had the honor of bestowing the pallium on the new pope and crowning him with the papal tiara. However, in 1978 Pope John Paul I chose not to be crowned and opted for a simpler papal inauguration ceremony, and his three successors followed that example. As a result, the Cardinal protodeacon's privilege of crowning a new pope has effectively ceased. However, the Proto-Deacon still has the privilege of bestowing the pallium on a new pope at his papal inauguration. “Acting in the place of the Roman Pontiff, he also confers the pallium upon metropolitan bishops or gives the pallium to their proxies.” The current Cardinal Proto-Deacon is Renato Martino.\n\n"}
{"id": "2039483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2039483", "title": "Richard Rose (mystic)", "text": "Richard Rose (mystic)\n\nRichard Rose (March 14, 1917 – July 6, 2005) was an American mystic, esoteric philosopher, author, poet, and investigator of paranormal phenomena. He published a number of books and spoke widely in universities and other venues across the country during the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nRose developed a system which he described as the \"retreat from untruth,\" an examination of personal belief systems and lifestyles. In that system one discards what one finds to be false on a case-by-case basis. He believed a spiritual Ultimate truth exists and can be found for oneself with sufficient application of effort, and recommended skeptical approaches such as his.\n\nHe studied human psychology, human weakness and human potential, then wrote challenges to psychology, psychiatry, religion, academia, the legal system, and the New Age movement. His criticism included issues of group-think, dogmatism, financial motives, emotional appeals, and reliance on questionable authorities.\n\nRichard Rose was born in Benwood, West Virginia, USA. He entered a Catholic pre-seminary in Butler, Pennsylvania at age 12. He later recounted his delight at the prospect of living with monks and nuns who he believed had direct connections to God. He became disillusioned though with the teachers and with their insistence that he accept what they taught on blind faith. He left the seminary at age 17 still looking for God but having decided to do so through science. He then studied chemistry and physics in college but became disillusioned with the possibility of finding God or Truth through science. He then traveled around the U.S., in a series of jobs such as work on the first nuclear submarine at Babcock & Wilcox in Alliance, Ohio, on streptomycin at the National Jewish Medical & Research Center in Denver, and performing metallurgical testing for Martin Aircraft in Baltimore.\n\nWhile living in Baltimore, his older brother James was killed on a Merchant Marine vessel when it was torpedoed by a German U-boat. His death provided a huge shock to Rose, who contrasted his brother's selfless attitude to his own spiritual ego.\n\nRose was working in the spring of 1947 as a waiter at a tennis club in Seattle when he experienced what he described as \"God Realization\". Several months later, he wrote a description of what had occurred in \"The Three Books of the Absolute\".\n\nA few years later he married and raised a family. He supported the family as a painting contractor and by raising cattle on the family farm. He worked with people who were interested in parapsychological phenomena such as ESP and hypnosis, but said he never come across anyone working to answer questions about the nature of the mind and reality. It was in this period that he compiled his first book, \"The Albigen Papers\" published in 1973, outlining his philosophy.\n\nIn 1972 Rose was invited to give a talk at the Theosophical Society in Pittsburgh. Two students from the University of Pittsburgh attended, and they were inspired to start a group at the university to apply Rose's teaching. In 1973, Rose and a handful of students set up the TAT Foundation — \"a circle of friends with no head\" — to promote their efforts to reach out to others. The acronym TAT stood for \"Truth and Transmission.\" The Pittsburgh group spawned groups at other northeastern universities and even a couple of western locations (Denver and Los Angeles). Rose made his farm available for group gatherings and individual retreats, and students built two large buildings for meetings as well as cabins for individual use. The following two decades saw hundreds of people inspired to launch their own spiritual searches.\n\nRose continued to write and publish while his study groups expanded. His public lectures continued until the early 1990s, when he started to show signs of deterioration from Alzheimer's disease.\n\nRose's student David Gold described his work as esoteric and direct. Rose chose not to establish a popular movement of students, instead preferring a network of close students, who then reached out to a larger circle, which included author Joseph Chilton Pearce.\n\nHe came from humble roots, then studied as a scientist. His teachings were based on a lifetime of experience and research, and in particular an experience when he was thirty. Joseph Chilton Pearce described him: \"Rose is a no-nonsense West Virginian who wants nothing more from life than to somehow pass on the cataclysmic spiritual experience, the Enlightenment that blind-sided him when he was a young man.\"\n\nHis student John Kent felt Rose's teachings were difficult to describe, because Rose stressed inner work inherently subjective and intimate to each individual. They were more about pursuing personal insight and introspection than a set of specific techniques. Nonetheless, according to Kent, Rose did formulate a system of teachings based on his study of other traditions and his own insights. Kent summarized the core questions in the teachings as: \n\nRose recommends a deep investigation of \"who\" is living and experiencing: clearly defining self and ego. He also insisted that a life of activity is meaningless as long as the identity of the actor is not known. He thought approaching spirituality as a way to find peace or enhance one's life, which he called \"utilitarian,\" was foolish. Instead he advocated total dedication to a search for truth — in particular concerning self and ego — in spite of the personal consequences.\n\nHe used the term \"Jacob's Ladder\" (image) as a kind of transpersonal map. Based on that, he then used the terms \"Law of the Ladder\" and \"Ladder Work\" to describe different levels he observed among those seeking truth. He also believed that one could only effectively help, or be helped by, others who were on the same or adjacent rungs of the ladder. He felt \"extra-proportional returns\" were realized when a group of people combine their efforts in any endeavor, which he called the \"Contractor's Law\".\n\nRose cautioned against postulating what truth — with respect to self and ego, for example — should be and then trying to move toward it. Instead one removes misunderstandings. His working definition of truth was \"a condition from which all untruth has been removed.\" He used the phrases \"retreat from error\" and \"reverse vector\" to describe the process of moving away from the most obviously false, what he called \"garbage,\" which would clarify the thinking and intuition to a point where more subtle untruth could be evaluated.\n\nHe published \"The Albigen Papers\" in 1973, which he called a guidebook for seekers. His theories about the transmutation of energy from the body through the mind up to what he called the \"spiritual quantum,\" were published after that and similar to some recent theories describing the mind as a force-field. He produced a pamphlet on a method of meditation involving the dispassionate review of past traumatic events as a way to overcome psychological problems and to understand the ego. His book \"Psychology of the Observer\" encapsulated his views on the structure of mind-processes and what he described as the internal ascent from a personal, conflicted view of the world to a more Universal perspective.\n\nHe was a hypnotist, occasionally giving demonstrations, and said that understanding hypnotism was a key to understanding the mechanics of the mind. His criticism of spiritual and New Age movements often included references to their use of self-hypnotic methods.\n\nHis student John Kent described the culmination of Rose's philosophy as corresponding \"most closely with the nondualism of Advaita Vedanta\". But Kent also writes that rather than presenting a concept-structure or a specific practice upon which his teachings could be based Rose instead advocated personal immersion into available methods and religious styles while always applying what he called \"respectful doubt.\" Consequently, his followers obtained an understanding of a wide number of esoteric groups and methods, which they were able to bring back and share among themselves. Rose also believed that progress on one's spiritual path was linked to one's efforts at helping others.\n\nRose recommended a number of authors to his students and disparaged other authors, based on his research. Those he most highly recommended were Indian guru Ramana Maharshi, Chan master Huang Po, Christian mystics St. John of the Cross and Teresa of Avila, George Gurdjieff, and researchers Paul Brunton and Richard Bucke. In \"Albigen Papers\" he described H.P. Blavatsky's books as \"some of the most valuable a student can own,\" and in his publication of \"Profound Writings East & West\", called her text \"Book of Golden Precepts\" (also \"Voice of the Silence\") as \"a condensed guide to the deepest teachings of mankind.\" Rose advocated the study of what he called thaumaturgical laws as a means to protect oneself from unseen influences, for anyone who would explore the dimensions of consciousness (\"the mind dimension\"), referring to texts by Eliphas Levi and others.\n\nAccording to Kent, Rose advocated a very personal commitment similar to Gurdjieff and he discouraged casual commitment. Aspects of his style which discouraged casual commitment included: a Zen-like method of confrontation, recommending a celibate lifestyle, and strong criticism of what he described as social and political sacred cows. In personal interactions he would attempt to dispel illusions and falsehoods that students were hiding from themselves. This sharpness caused his students to call him a Zen master, even though he was highly critical of mainstream Zen. In fact, the first group established by Rose was called Zen Study Group, in Pittsburgh, reflecting his embrace of Zen methods, and other groups were called Pyramid Zen Society, an admission that those interested in total commitment would be few (the top of the pyramid) as explained in various recorded talks. He felt that requiring students to be determined would produce a more committed group of thinkers and researchers.\n\nRose gave a series of lectures in the 1970s which outlined his approach to Zen and which incorporated the term Zen in the title: \"The Psychology of Zen\"; \"Zen and Common Sense\"; \"Zen and Death\"; etc. Several of these have been transcribed from the audio tapes and published. He published for limited circulation a paper titled \"The Monitor Papers\" which established rules, guidelines and techniques to be observed during confrontation in the private group meetings where confrontation was permitted.\n\nRose had a high regard for Alfred Pulyan, a Zen teacher in Connecticut, who gave him a method of Transmission referred to in Zen literature. Rose wrote a handbook for local group leaders, \"The Monitor Papers\", currently unpublished, giving instructions on how to create \"rapport\", which in his view is a precursor to Transmission, and he published \"Energy Transmutation, Between-ness and Transmission\" in 1975.\n\nStemming from his investigations into Spiritualism, in his early lectures he often related his findings on paranormal phenomena.\n\nHe worked closely with groups, beginning with university students and professional people, mostly in the Northeast (e.g. Pennsylvania, Ohio, Massachusetts, Maryland, West Virginia). Over time, as the students graduated and entered professional lives, groups were also established in Colorado, California, North Carolina, Florida, and Maine. After he was hospitalized with Alzheimer's in the mid 1990s, many of the organizations failed, but some continued- notably, the Self-Knowledge Symposium at universities in North Carolina.\n\nHis followers believe he never pursued widespread popularity. Members of the TAT Foundation, the current umbrella organization, are dispersed geographically. People may attend study groups without becoming actual members of the umbrella group.\n\nIn 1967, Rose attempted to create an ashram of spiritual seekers on his Marshall County, West Virginia farm, and composed a letter which was published in the San Francisco Oracle expressing his desire to try \"to form an ashram of sorts here in West Virginia, in the rural section where I own about a half a section. The conception is one of a non-profit, non-interfering, non-denominational, retreat or refuge, where philosophers might come to work communally together, or independently,—where a library and other facilities might be developed.\",\n\nAmong the seekers who responded to his letter were Hare Krishna devotees Kirtanananda Swami (Keith Gordon Ham) and his partner Hayagriva Das (Howard Morton Wheeler). The two secured a 99-year lease on Rose's backwoods farm which eventually developed into the sprawling New Vrindaban Community which eventually included Prabhupada's Palace of Gold, and this community pressed against Rose's farm from all sides. When Rose attempted to fight the Krishnas in court and win back his land for non-payment of taxes, there was some talk at the community about \"eliminating\" him, and a hit man allegedly followed him for a while. Despite his troubles with the Krishnas, Rose reportedly never expressed outright regret over his decision to lease his back farm to them. \"In some ways the Krishnites are better to have around than the hillbillies,\" Rose said once. \"At least they don't get drunk and steal the radiators out of your trucks.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22322343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22322343", "title": "Robert Asch", "text": "Robert Asch\n\nRobert Charles Asch (born 1968) is a British Catholic writer and scholar. He teaches English at Chavagnes International College in France.\n\nRobert Asch was born into an Anglo-Canadian Jewish family in 1968 in London. His parents were both opera singers. He was educated at St Paul's School and the University of Toronto.\n\nAsch is co-editor of the \"St. Austin Review\", a Catholic review of culture, and Editor of Saint Austin Press.\n\nAsch has been Senior Master and teacher of English and History at Chavagnes International College, France, since its inception in 2002. He was recently awarded a Wilbur Research Fellowship at the Russell Kirk Center for Cultural Renewal for his work towards a new study of the English poet Lionel Johnson.\n\nAsch is married to the poet Ruth Tyldesley Asch. He converted to Catholicism in 1996. He resides on Northwestern France.\n\n"}
{"id": "42581480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42581480", "title": "Sawashfan", "text": "Sawashfan\n\nSawashfan (died 8th-century) was the ruler of the Afrighid dynasty of Khwarezm during the 8th-century. He was the son and successor of Askajamuk II.\n\nHe is one of the few Afrighid rulers whose coins have been identified. The coin shows a bust of Sawashfan to the left, while it shows him on horseback to the right. Sawashfan is known in Chinese sources as Shao-she-fien, where he in 751 is reportedly said to have requested help from the Tang dynasty. Sawashfan was later succeeded by his son Torkasbatha.\n\n"}
{"id": "7734374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734374", "title": "Seven of Swords", "text": "Seven of Swords\n\nSeven of Swords is a Minor Arcana tarot card.\nTarot cards are used throughout much of Europe to play Tarot card games.\n\nIn English-speaking countries, where the games are largely unknown, Tarot cards came to be utilized primarily for divinatory purposes.\n\nA hasty decision, greed and/or thoughtless behavior, the individual acts in an impulsive fashion. It represents secret plans, hidden dishonor, frustration and the possibility of failure.\n\nThe Seven of Swords, when upright means to use your wits for diplomacy and not to use aggression, this is why it can be viewed as secret planning or hidden dishonor, your acts may be legitimate however you prefer to use your mind and intellect rather than force or via obvious means.\n\nThe Reversed meaning of the card means excess use of intellect with little success on an outcome, to surrender, or to have little care on solving a problem. The questioner needs to break away from ingrained habits or ways to approach problems. \n\nThe figure is taking stealthy steps, looking back to examine the scene he is leaving. Apparently he is doing something he knows he should not be doing, and is attempting to get away with it anyway.\n"}
{"id": "39797061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39797061", "title": "Shirwal Caves", "text": "Shirwal Caves\n\nShirwal Caves are a group of 15 Buddhist caves located in a small village called Shriwal, 48 km south of Pune, India. \n\nOne is Chaitya and 14 Caves represent Vihara. All caves are plain belonging to the early phase of Buddhism.\n"}
{"id": "4327440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4327440", "title": "Smudging", "text": "Smudging\n\nSmudging is a ceremony practiced by some Indigenous peoples of the Americas, that involves the burning of sacred herbs, in some cases for spiritual cleansing or blessing. While the particulars of the ceremonies, and the herbs used can vary widely between tribes and nations, many use forms of sage (for example, common sage or white sage) and cedar that is local to their region. Not all Native American and First Nations cultures that burn herbs for ceremony call what they do, \"smudging\". While using scent and scented smoke (such as incense) in religious and spiritual rites is an element common to many different cultures worldwide, the details and spiritual meanings are usually unique to the specific cultures in question. \n\nIn some First Nations and Native American ceremonies, certain herbs are traditionally used to purify or bless people and places. For instance, some cultures use the smoke of burning red cedar as part of purification and healing ceremonies, and sometimes smudging is done in hospitals to \"cleanse and repel evil influence.\" However, the same herbs that are burned by one culture may be taboo to burn in another, or they may be used for a completely different purpose. When specific herbs are burned ceremonially, this may or may not be called \"smudging\", depending on the culture. Traditionally, when gathering herbs for ceremonial use, care is taken to determine the time of day, month, or year when the herbs should be collected; for example, at dawn or evening, at certain phases of the moon, or according to yearly cycles. Gertrude Allen, a Lumbee, reported that her father, an expert in healing with plants, stated that sage varies in potency at different times of the year.\n\nSome of the terminology in use among non-Indigenous people, such as the American English term \"smudge stick\" is usually found in use among those who imitate what they believe are Native American sacred ceremonies. However, the herbs used in commercial \"smudge sticks\" or \"sage bundles,\" and the rituals performed with them by non-Natives, are rarely the actual materials or ceremonies used by traditional Native Americans. Use of these objects have also been adopted in some forms into a number of modern belief systems, including many forms of New Age and eclectic Neopagan spirituality. This has been protested against by Native activists as a form of cultural misappropriation. \n\nSmudging \"kits\" are often sold commercially, despite traditional prohibitions against the sale of spiritual medicines like white sage. These may include bundles of a single herb or a combination of several different herbs; often these herbs are not found bundled together in traditional use, and their use is not universal to all, or even most, Native cultures. In some Native American cultures the burning of these herbs is prohibited. Other commercial items may contain herbs not native to North America, or not indigenous to the region where they are being used, as well as substances that are toxic when burnt.\n\nNative American students in college dorms have at times faced harassment and been forbidden from burning herbs for ceremonial reasons due to university policies that prohibit the burning of candles or incense in college dorm rooms. This has raised issues around the religious freedom of Native Americans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34538505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34538505", "title": "Sternberg Interfaith Gold Medallion", "text": "Sternberg Interfaith Gold Medallion\n\nThe Interfaith Gold Medallion is a prestigious award founded in 1986 and granted by the Sir Sigmund Sternberg Charitable Foundation\n\nThe purpose of the award is to recognize those who have 'endeavored to make an exceptional contribution to the improvement of understanding between the faiths in the United Kingdom, and across the world'. The Medallion is awarded to outstanding individuals who have helped promote peace and tolerance between people of different faiths. This has included Heads of State and Government, Royalty, and religious, civic, business, and philanthropic leaders. \n\nThe Chairman of the award is Michael Sternberg QC KCFO\n\n\nThe Sternberg Charitable Foundation applies its funds for general charitable purposes by the making of grants in particular to charitable institutions. It has a special interest in the furtherance of interfaith activities and the promotion and support of education in the fields of racial and religious harmony.\n"}
{"id": "2239549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239549", "title": "Sukyo Mahikari", "text": "Sukyo Mahikari\n\nSukyo Mahikari (\"Sukyo\" means universal principles and \"Mahikari\" means True Light) is an organization with centers in more than 100 countries. The organization aims to help people improve the quality of their lives and attain happiness by practicing universal principles and a method of spiritual purification called the art of True Light. It was founded by Kotama Okada in 1959 under the name L. H. Yokoshi no Tomo. Sukyo Mahikari was registered on 23 June 1978 by Keishu Okada as part of an amicable settlement following the passing of Kotama Okada. In 2013, Sukyo Mahikari announced it had a membership of approximately one million practitioners. \n\n23 June 1978: The establishment of Sukyo Mahikari is announced by Keishu Okada, the adopted daughter of Kōtama Okada. \n\n18 October 1984: Inauguration of the Inner Shrine (Okumiya) of the World Shrine near the summit of Mount Kurai.\n\n3 November 1984: Inauguration of the World Shrine (Suza) in Takayama City.\n\n23 June 1992: Inauguration of Hikaru Shinden, the shrine dedicated to the founder, Sukuinushisama.\n\n5 May 2002: Inauguration of the Sukyo Mahikari Youth Centre.\n\n3 November 2009: It is officially announced that the third spiritual leader will be Mr. Kōō Okada.\n\nThe organization aims to promote peace and harmony in society through the practice of a method of spiritual purification and the practice of universal principles, such as gratitude, acceptance, and humility in all aspects of life.\n\nSukyo Mahikari introduces a practice to purify one's spiritual aspect as an expedient toward attaining happiness. Radiating Light from the palm of the hand is a method of spiritual purification that cleanses the spirit, mind and body. It is said to help open the way to resolving all manner of problems. By purifying the spiritual aspect with the Light and leading a life based on principles of sustainability, people can revive their spirituality and attain increasing health, harmony and prosperity.\n\nThe transmission of Light is referred to as \"the art of True Light.\" Through the palm of the hand, a person (the giver) radiates Light to another person (the receiver), allowing them to purify and revitalize their spirit, mind and body.\n\nRadiating Light can be practiced by anyone who so desires, by attending the Sukyo Mahikari primary course.\n\nA session of Light typically begins with both the giver and receiver offering a short prayer. Next, the giver of Light recites a prayer that is believed to have a strong power to purify (the \"Amatsu Norigoto Prayer\"). The giver then holds his or her hand approximately 30 centimeters (12 inches) from the receiver's body. Sessions of Light usually last anywhere from 10 to 50 minutes.\n\nSukyo Mahikari does not advocate the use of the art of True Light as a substitute for medical treatment or therapy. The founder of Mahikari, Mr. Kotama Okada, taught that the purpose of the art of True Light is not to heal disease or illness, but to be of service to society, bring happiness to people, and attain divine nature.\n\nThe art of True Light is said to purify the spiritual realm of one's home and society, making them more peaceful and harmonious. Thus, members are encouraged to radiate the Light to anything, anywhere, and at anytime. Thus, the Light is not only radiated to human beings, but also to animals, food, buildings, and the natural environment.\n\nSukyo Mahikari teaches the concept of universal principles that, when practiced together with the Light, allow one to more quickly attain spiritual and personal growth.\n\nSukyo Mahikari encourages people to incorporate the divine principles in their daily life by practicing virtues such as altruistic love, gratitude, humility and acceptance of the will of God. Members also practice prayer, cultivating positive and cheerful attitudes, promoting harmony, charity and helping others, and being of service to God.\n\nFounder Kotama Okada believed that if people lived in accordance with the universal principles, they would cultivate their spirituality, and naturally come to use science and technology that was integrated with an understanding of spirituality, to find solutions to pressing issues facing humanity.\n\nSukyo Mahikari promotes the practice of yoko agriculture. The practice of yoko agriculture involves organic agriculture combined with the use of positive words and attitudes to help people to cultivate respect for nature and restore soil to its pure and fertile condition. Accordingly, respect for nature and the natural environment is encouraged. The arbitrary use of chemical fertilizers, without consideration for the local environment, is discouraged. The organization has helped to create natural farms and promotes the distribution of natural and organic produce throughout the world.\n\nThe headquarters of Sukyo Mahikari is located in Takayama City, Gifu Prefecture, Japan. \nSukyo Mahikari has established regional headquarters in Australia-Oceania, Asia, Europe, Africa, Latin America, and North America, with centers located in over 100 countries. \nWithin the United States and Canada, Sukyo Mahikari has 21 spiritual development centers.\n\nSukyo Mahikari currently has approximately a million practitioners who form its membership.\n\nBecoming a member of Sukyo Mahikari does not require giving up any pre-existing beliefs or accepting Sukyo Mahikari as the only path or faith. Sukyo Mahikari teaches that the art of True Light and the universal principles transcend religious denominations and differences in ethnicity, nationality, and ideology. Sukyo Mahikari promotes cooperation and understanding between religious organizations toward establishing a sustainable and peaceful society. The emphasis the organization places on the spiritual unity of human beings has resulted in a membership that reflects a diversity of religions and nationalities.\n\nSukyo Mahikari does not practice any form of tithe. The organization is sustained by the voluntary contributions (offerings) made by members. Rather than the amount, emphasis is placed on making offerings with sincerity. People are encouraged to make offerings that are voluntary and not beyond one's means. There are no mandatory contributions. However, there is a set amount for the appreciation offering to attend the introductory course and the spiritual cord maintenance offering. Members are encouraged to offer the monthly spiritual cord maintenance offering, which is approximately $7 in the U.S. and a similar amount in other regions. Cornille writes that there are a number of types of offerings in the organization: the spiritual cord maintenance offering; True Light appreciation offering; the special protection appreciation offering, and so on.\n\nIn 1985 Keishu Okada established the Yoko Civilization Research Institute (YCRI). The objective of the forum is to find solutions to today’s problems by having leaders in different fields, regardless of their race, nationality, religion, and ideology, come together to share their acquired wisdom.\n\n1st Yoko International Conference was held on Oct 30 to Nov 1, 1986. The theme was \"Creating the future of mankind.\"\n\n2nd Yoko International Conference was held on Oct 28 to Nov 1, 1989. The theme was \"What does it mean to be human?\"\n\n3rd Yoko International Conference was held on Aug 18 to Aug 21, 1999. The theme was \"Life and environment.\"\n\n4th Yoko International Conference was held on September 18 to Sep 21, 2005. The theme was \"Science and religion in the age of crisis.\"\n\nThe 5th Yoko International Conference was supposed to be held on November 20–23, 2011. The theme was \"Coexistence between nature and human beings: viewed through agriculture\". It was cancelled due to the Great East Japan Earthquake.\n\nSukyo Mahikari members have been involved in charity and social services around the world, such as in Côte d'Ivoire and Senegal (planting of trees and revival of national parks), in Angola (activities for children, elderly people, and beautify urban areas) and in both New York and Hawaii (for environmental cleanup activities). \n\nIn 2000, Sukyo Mahikari co-sponsored the UN Millennium Summit of World Religious Leaders.\n\nIn August 2004, Los Angeles mayor James Hahn presented Sukyo Mahikari of North America with a proclamation commending the organization for its efforts in helping to create a peaceful and harmonious society; and in September 2009, Mayor Mufi Hannemann of Honolulu presented Sukyo Mahikari with a certificate declaring September 27 as Sukyo Mahikari Day in Honolulu in recognition of beach and park cleanup activities that the organization has conducted there over the past ten years.\n\nOn May 6, 2010, the New York Center of Sukyo Mahikari was presented with a High Performance Building Plaque from The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) in pursuing a LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Silver rating from the U.S. Green Buildings Council. The plaque was given in recognition of energy-efficient measures incorporated into the new center that will help cut its energy costs by $8,400 per year and reduce its carbon footprint in New York City.\n\nIn 2014, an award for excellence in reforestation activities was presented to Sukyo Mahikari by the President of Côte d'Ivoire. The award was in recognition of the reforestation activities of the Sukyo Mahikari youth members of Africa. At the presentation ceremony in Takayama, the award was presented on behalf of the president by Côte d'Ivoire's Minister for Environment, Water and Forests, Mr. Mathieu Babaud Darret. \n\nSince 2016, Sukyo Mahikari was granted special consultative status with the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) of the United Nations.\n\nCatherine Cornille writes in a research paper that the attrition rate is high. She also states \"The emphasis on miracles and magic in Mahikari, on the other hand, accounts for the large turnover of members...\"\n\nIn the 1995 and 1999 parliamentary reports, the organization was listed as having new-age tendencies, however, no conclusions were made regarding sectarian phenomena and as of 27 May 2005, the French government decided to stop periodically releasing a list of organizations associated with sectarian phenomena.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40026562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40026562", "title": "Teotleco", "text": "Teotleco\n\nTeotleco is the name of the twelfth month of the Aztec calendar. It is also a festival in the Aztec religion and is known as the festival of All gods where all gods are worshiped.\n"}
{"id": "21585645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21585645", "title": "Timothy Tennent", "text": "Timothy Tennent\n\nTimothy C. Tennent (born September 24, 1959) is an American theologian who is the current president of Asbury Theological Seminary.\n\nTennent's education includes a B.A. from Oral Roberts University, an M.Div. from Gordon Conwell (1984), a Th.M. from Princeton Theological Seminary (1991), and a Ph.D. from the University of Edinburgh's Centre for the Study of Christianity in the Non-Western World (1998), where his dissertation was on Indian theologian Brahmabandhab Upadhyay.\n\nTennent studied under Professor John Brockington, Dr James Cox, and Professor Andrew Walls, and his research focused on the rapidly growing churches outside the West. His Ph.D. dissertation was revised and published in 2000 under the title \"Building Christianity on Indian Foundations\".\n\nTennent is also one of four graduates of a three-year mentoring in academic leadership program funded through a Lilly Endowment grant.\n\nTennent is an ordained elder (minister) in the United Methodist Church in the Kentucky Annual Conference. He is also a direct descendant of William Tennent, the founder of Log College, which was the precursor to Princeton University.\n\nTennent began his teaching career at Toccoa Falls College, where he was named Teacher of the Year in 1995. From 1998–2009, he served as professor of world missions and Indian studies at Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary in South Hamilton, Massachusetts.\n\nHe was elected to his current post as president of Asbury Seminary on February 17, 2009 and his tenure began on July 1, 2009. Tennent succeeded Ellsworth Kalas as president of Asbury. He continues to serve as a visiting professor at the Luther W. New Jr. Theological College of Dehradun, India where he has taught each summer since 1988.\n\nIn November 2009, Tennent signed an ecumenical statement known as the \"\" calling on evangelicals, Catholics and Orthodox not to comply with rules and laws permitting abortion, same-sex marriage and other matters that go against their religious consciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21517284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21517284", "title": "Valmadonna Trust Library", "text": "Valmadonna Trust Library\n\nThe Valmadonna Trust Library was a collection of 13,000 printed books and manuscripts printed in Hebrew or in Hebrew script. It was sold by the Trustees in January 2017 to the National Library of Israel. It is named after Valmadonna, a small town near Alessandria in north-west Italy with longstanding connections to the Lunzer family. The collection encompasses works from throughout the world, particularly Italy, \"the cradle of Hebrew printing\", and covers over a millennium; many items in the collection are rare or unique, and many date back to the earliest Hebrew printings. According to Arthur Kiron, curator of Judaica collections at the University of Pennsylvania, \"I don't know any other collection quite like it in private hands. It even rivals some of the great institutional collections in the world.\" \n\nNotable items in the collection include the following:\n\nIn early 2009, the collection, estimated to be worth in excess of US$40 million, was placed for sale by Sotheby's, with the proviso that it be sold as a whole and not broken up, and remain accessible to scholars. The custodian Jack V. Lunzer, who is not benefitting from the proceeds of the sale, has stated that \"I would like our library to be acquired by the Library of Congress. That would be my great joy.\" After visiting the exhibition of the collection at Sotheby's, a scholar from the Drisha Institute wrote of Lunzer's achievement:\n\nThe morning of our visit, I studied the commentary of Rabbi David Kimhi, who is known as the Radak, on Joseph's conflict with his brothers. Honestly, it felt like just another of the many rabbinic commentaries... Then I went to the Valmadonna. Peering closely at one of the oldest manuscripts, I saw that it was a volume of Psalms with the Radak's commentary. In that instant, time and space collapsed as I found myself bound to every other Jew who has studied Kimhi's work since it was penned in the late 12th and early 13th centuries. That moment made clear to me that I am not simply a modern Jew studying in a contemporary yeshiva near Lincoln Center. I am tied to every other Jew through 800 years of history. I envision Kimhi hunched over his work, and wonder if his soul knows that even still we are learning from him, that his elucidation remains as relevant to the study of biblical text as it was to his contemporaries. The books of the Valmadonna – the books of our people – bring history alive [and] keep our history alive even when the communities that produce them are long dead.\n\nIn May 2011, \"The Jewish Chronicle\" in London reported that the collection was still for sale, perhaps for around US$25 million.\n\nIn December 2015, Sotheby's New York presided over the sale of the Daniel Bomberg \"Babylonian Talmud\" (1519-1523) from the Valmadonna Trust for $9.3 million, the copy that Lunzer obtained in trade from Westminster Abbey in 1980.\n\nIn January 2017, the collection was sold to the National Library of Israel in January 2017 through a private sale arranged by Sotheby's. David Blumberg, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the National Library of Israel, said:“\"The Valmadonna Trust Library represents an historic addition to our leading collection of Jewish manuscripts, prints and books, which reflect and embody the cultures of the Jewish people around the world and across the ages\"”.The Valmadonna Trust Library will be housed in the National Library of Israel's landmark new building in Jerusalem, due to open to the public in 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "10149894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10149894", "title": "Zaebos", "text": "Zaebos\n\nZaebos is a demon or spirit in the \"Dictionnaire Infernal\". Zaebos is said to be the Grand Count of the infernal realms, and appears in the shape of a handsome soldier mounted on a crocodile.\n\n"}
