{"id": "980288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980288", "title": "32 County Sovereignty Movement", "text": "32 County Sovereignty Movement\n\nThe 32 County Sovereignty Movement, often abbreviated to 32CSM or 32csm, is an Irish republican group that was founded by Bernadette Sands McKevitt. It does not contest elections but acts as a pressure group, with branches or \"cumainn\" organised throughout the traditional counties of Ireland.\n\nThe 32CSM has been described as the \"political wing\" of the Real IRA, but this is denied by both organisations. The group originated in a split from Sinn Féin over the Mitchell Principles.\n\n\nThe organisation was founded as the 32 County Sovereignty Committee on 7 December 1997 at a meeting of like-minded Irish republicans in Finglas in Dublin. Those present were opposed to the direction taken by Sinn Féin and other mainstream republican groups in the Northern Ireland peace process, which would lead to the Belfast Agreement (also known as the Good Friday Agreement) the following year. The same division in the republican movement led to the paramilitary group now known as the Real IRA breaking away from the Provisional Irish Republican Army at around the same time.\n\nMost of its founders had been members of Sinn Féin; some had been expelled from the party for challenging the leadership's direction, while others felt they had not been properly able to air their concerns within Sinn Féin at the direction its leadership had taken. Bernadette Sands McKevitt, wife of Michael McKevitt and a sister of hunger striker Bobby Sands, was a prominent member of the group until a split in the organisation.\n\nThe name refers to the 32 counties of Ireland which were created during the Lordship and Kingdom of Ireland. With the partition of Ireland in 1920–22, twenty-six of these counties formed the Irish Free State which became the Republic of Ireland; the remaining six counties of Northern Ireland remain part of the United Kingdom.\n\nBefore the referendums on the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, the 32CSM lodged a legal submission with the United Nations challenging British sovereignty in Ireland. The referendums were opposed by the 32CSM, but were supported by 71% of voters in Northern Ireland and by 94% in the Republic of Ireland. In November 2005 the 32CSM launched a political initiative titled \"Irish Democracy, A Framework For Unity.\"\n\nOn 24 May 2014 Gary Donnelly, a member of the 32 Country Sovereignty Movement, was elected to the Derry and Strabane super council. In July 2014 a delegation from the 32 County Sovereignty Movement travelled to Canada, to take part in a six-day speaking tour. On arrival the delegation was detained and refused entry into Canada.\n\nThe 32CSM has protested against what it calls \"internment by remand\" in both jurisdictions in Ireland.\n\nOther protests include ones against former Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) leader Ian Paisley in Cobh, County Cork, against former British Prime Minister John Major being given the Keys to Cork city, against a visit to the Republic of Ireland by Police Service of Northern Ireland head Sir Hugh Orde, and against the Israeli occupation of Palestine and Anglo-American occupation of Iraq.\n\nIn 2015 the 32CSM organised a demonstration in Dundee, Scotland in solidarity with the men convicted of shooting Constable Stephen Carroll, the first police officer to be killed in Northern Ireland since the formation of the PSNI. The organisation says the \"Craigavon Two\" are innocent and have been victims of a miscarriage of justice.\n\nThe 32 County Sovereignty Movement has often been critical of the Real IRA's military actions. However the group is currently considered a foreign terrorist organization (FTO) in the United States, because the group is considered to be inseparable from the Real IRA, which is designated as an FTO. At a briefing in 2001 a spokesman for the US Department of State stated that \"evidence provided by both the British and Irish governments and open source materials demonstrate clearly that the individuals who created the Real IRA also established these two entities to serve as the public face of the Real IRA. These alias organizations engage in propaganda and fundraising on behalf of and in collaboration with the Real IRA.\" The US Department of State's designation made it illegal for Americans to provide material support to the Real IRA, requires US financial institutions to block the group's assets and denies alleged RIRA members visas into the US.\n\nThe 32CSM also operates outside of the island of Ireland to some extent. The Gaughan/Stagg Cumann covers England, Scotland and Wales and has an active relationship of mutual promotion with a minority of British hard left groups, including the Anti-Fascist Network. The James Larkin Republican Flute Band (founded in 1996) in Liverpool and the West of Scotland Band Alliance (founded in 1979)–the largest section of which is the Glasgow-based Parkhead Republican Flute Band–are also supporters of the 32CSM (the larger flute band communities in these areas tend to be aligned to Sinn Féin instead). As of 2014 the 32CSM's paramilitary wing, the Real IRA, was also still involved in attempts to perpetrate bombings in Britain as part of the Dissident Irish Republican campaign, which has been ongoing since 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "311468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311468", "title": "Afghan Constitution Commission", "text": "Afghan Constitution Commission\n\nThe Afghan Constitution Commission (or Afghan Constitutional Commission) was established October 5, 2002 as required by the Bonn Agreement, which stipulated that a new Afghan constitution be adopted by a loya jirga. The loya jirga was required to convene within eighteen months of the establishment of Afghan Transitional Administration, which was established by the Emergency Loya Jirga in June 2002. After some delay, the proposed Afghan Constitution was presented to President Hamid Karzai on November 3, 2003. A loya jirga began December 14, 2003 (four days after schedule) in Kabul and was endorsed January 4, 2004.\n\nThe initial Commission was made up of nine members and started work on October 5, 2002. After its work was completed (although no draft was released) the initial Commission was replaced on May 7, 2003 by a 35-member Reviewing Commission, referred to as the Constitution Commission. The 35 members were all appointed by president Karzai. Seven of the members were women.\n\nThe commission set up eight regional offices in Jalalabad, Herat, Kunduz, Kabul, Gardez, Kandahar, Mazar and Bamyan as well as in the Pakistani cities of Peshawar and Quetta, and in the Iranian cities of Tehran and Mashhad.\n\nThe process was being monitored by the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan and was funded by the United Nations Development Programme.\n\nConsultations with the Afghan public started June 10, 2003. Commission teams from Kabul and regional offices made trips through Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan. Afghan refugees in the United States were also said to be consulted. The commission also distributed posters and leaflets, and a monthly newsletter. Radio and television announcements were also made.\n\nThe initial goal was for the Commission to present the draft constitution by September 1, 2003, but in August commission members asked for a two-month delay to allow more time to gather reactions. On August 28 Ghulam Farooq Wardak announced that the loya jirga had been postponed until December 10. The commission wanted more time to consult with Afghans. Ghulam Farooq Wardak, the director of the commission's secretariat, said the delay would give Afghans more time to decide if they wanted a republic, a parliamentary system, or a return to a monarchy. Other issues, he said, included the degree of centralization in Kabul and the role of Islam. He said 100,000 questionnaires from all provinces of Afghanistan had been completed and sent to the Commission.\n\nThe Commission presented its proposed constitution on November 3, 2003. The ceremony was attended by president Karzai, former king Mohammad Zaher Shah, and United Nations special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi.\n\nThe draft was distributed throughout the country to Provincial Governors and Wuluswals for distribution to political leaders. It was also be widely distributed via the Regional Offices of Secretariat of the Constitutional Commission to ELJ district representatives, to the media, including magazines Kellid and Morsal.\n\nBacha Khan Zadran, a Pashtun warlord in Paktia province, criticized the proposed Constitution for abolishing the hereditary monarchy.\n\nMahbuba Hoquqmal, the Afghan Minister of Women's Affairs, said the constitution does not grant protection to women's property rights, and does not prevent women being forced to marry without their consent, and does not offer better guarantees of equal treatment by Afghanistan's courts. \n\nMembers of Uzbeks, Turkmens and Baluch said that the Proposed Constitution alienated their cultures. For example, the draft states that Pashto and Dari would be the two official languages, and that the national anthem would be sung in Pashto.\n\nOther issues raised by some loya jriga delegates included whether former king Mohammed Zahir Shah should maintain the title \"father of the nation,\" whether Afghanistan should be a free market economy, and whether higher education should be free.\n\n"}
{"id": "36645251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36645251", "title": "African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources", "text": "African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources\n\nThe African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (known also as Algiers Convention) is a continent-wide agreement signed in 1968 in Algiers. It supersedes the Convention Relative to the Preservation of Fauna and Flora in their Natural State of 1933 and has been superseded by the African Convention on Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (revised) signed in Maputo in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "1360551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1360551", "title": "All-Russian Central Executive Committee", "text": "All-Russian Central Executive Committee\n\nThe All-Russian Central Executive Committee ( (VTsIK)), was the highest legislative, administrative, and revising body of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (Russian SFSR) from 1917 until 1937. Although the All-Russian Congress of Soviets had supreme authority, in periods between its sessions its powers were passed to VTsIK.\n\nThe 1918 Russian Constitution required that the VTsIK convene the All-Russian Congress of Soviets no fewer than two times a year (Statute 26 of Article III). Additional Congresses could be called by the VTsIK or on the request of local Soviets. The VTsIK was elected by a full Congress, with no more than 200 individuals. It was completely subordinate to the Congress. The functions of the Collegiate or the Presidium were not declared in the Constitution, but presumably they were supposed to be purely supervisory or revisionary bodies.\n\nVTsIK gave a general direction for the policies of the Worker-Peasant government and all bodies of the Soviet power in the country. It united and coordinated activities for legislation and administration as well as supervised the endorsement of the Soviet Constitution, declarations of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets and central bodies of the Soviet power. The All-Russian Central Executive Committee reviewed and adopted the projects of decrees and other propositions introduced by the Council of People's Commissars and separate departments as well as issued its own decrees and instructions.\n\nVTsIK summoned the All-Russian Congress of Soviets to which it presented the reports on its activity, general policy, and other inquiries. The All-Russian Central Executive Committee formed the Council of People's Commissars for general administrative affairs of the republic and departments (called People's Commissariats) for the management of separate branches of administration. Members of VTsIK worked in the departments or executed special assignments of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee.\n\nThe state budget was defined by VTsIK and All-Russian Congress of Soviets together, in addition to defining the budgets of different regions.\n\nThe All-Russian Central Executive Committee was first elected at the very first All-Russian Congress of Soviets in Petrograd, June 3–24, 1917. The first Central Executive Committee of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets was not a governing body and its chairman Nikolai Chkheidze was not the head of Russian state. This changed at the Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets during the October Revolution.\n\nThe Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets met in, and elected the second Central Executive Committee. This then became the executive body of the RSFSR.\n\nIt was composed of\n\nThe first chairman of the VTsIK was Lev Kamenev, who directed the day-to-day work of the Committee. He only cast a vote if there was an even split in the committee.\n\nThe full name at one time was All-Russian Central Executive Committee of Workers', Peasants', Red Army, and Cossack Deputies (Всероссийский Центральный Исполнительный Комитет Советов рабочих, крестьянских, красноармейских и казачьих депутатов).\n\nFrom the formation of the Soviet Union in 1922, it downgraded from the highest level (federal) to the second level (federal-republic) of a governing body.\n\nFollowing the adoption of the 1936 Soviet Constitution, this organ was replaced with the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR.\n\n\nOn December 30, 1922 the Soviet Union was formed. It comprised the Russian SFSR and other communist-controlled Soviet republics. Mikhail Kalinin retained his position as Chairman of the Central Executive Committee of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets and became Chairman of the newly formed Central Executive Committee of the USSR as well. Both positions were mostly ceremonial, increasingly so in later years.\n\n"}
{"id": "55811551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55811551", "title": "Ann-Marie Williams", "text": "Ann-Marie Williams\n\nAnn-Marie Williams is a Belizean public policy advisor, administrator and former journalist. After spending over two decades as a reporter, Williams became the first Executive Director for the National Women's Commission of Belize. She serves as a governmental advisor to the legislature and executive on issues impacting women. She was honored with the US Secretary of State's Women in Public Service Award in 2011.\n\nAnn-Marie Williams was born in Belize City, Belize, the first daughter of a family of six siblings. She was raised by a single mother, who worked as a teacher and librarian. At the age of seventeen, Williams began working as an announcer at Radio Belize, at the time, the only radio broadcaster in the country. Completing a course on journalism at the Caribbean Institute of Media and Communication through the University of the West Indies, she continued her education, earning a bachelor's degree from the University College of Belize.\n\nIn 1988, Williams won the Edison Coleman Award for a program she produced for radio and was among the first reporters to read the news for Radio Belize. In 1995, she began the newscasts at Krem Radio, both writing and reading the news for a year. She went on to serve as a news anchor for Channel 3 and later at Channel 5 television. In 2000, wanting to further her education, Williams attended the University of Sussex in England, earning a master's degree in gender and development. Upon completion of her degree, she returned to Belize and Channel 5. Perhaps her most remembered expose as a journalist was the breaking of the story on the sale of Belizean passports in 2002, for which she and Channel 5 received awards from the Caribbean Broadcasting Union for investigative journalism. In 2003, she became an editor at \"The Reporter\" newspaper.\n\nIn 2008, Williams left journalism when she was appointed by the government, as the first executive director of the public policy advisory board on gender, the National Women's Commission. In that capacity, she administered public policy which relates to women's issues and advises the government on policies which expand women's equal access. In one program she implemented, the Women in Politics Project, women are trained in the political process and requirements to be a public servant. In 2011, from a pool of 200 international applicants, she received the US Secretary of State's Women in Public Service Award.\n\nWilliams and the National Women's Commission came under fire in 2013, after developing a revised gender policy for the country, from various church leaders, who were alarmed at the apparent inclusion of Belize's LGBT community. Williams' position was that the new policy included terminology to bring the document into line with the Constitution of Belize, which bars discrimination. At the time, a court challenge to Belize's anti-sodomy law was pending with several of the church bodies as opponents to legalization. Despite the controversy, the cabinet approved the policy by consensus. In 2014, Williams was named a \"trailblazer\" in the program launched by Kim Simplis Barrow, Special Envoy for Women and Children. In 2015, she was awarded a Hubert Humphrey Fellowship and completed post-graduate studies at the American University Washington College of Law on human trafficking. Williams launched an initiative for National Women's Commission in 2017 to reduce gender-based violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "57823616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57823616", "title": "Attorney General of Guyana", "text": "Attorney General of Guyana\n\nThe Ministry of Legal Affairs and Attorney General's Chambers ensures that proper legal services are provided to the Government of Guyana, as well as statutory services to the public. The Attorney General and Minister of Legal Affairs is the head of the chambers. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Legal affairs handles administrative responsibilities for the departments within the Ministry and is the Accounting Officer. The Advice and Litigation Division and the Drafting Division of the Attorney General's Chambers are headed by the Attorney General and Chief Parliamentary Counsel respectively. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "54186727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54186727", "title": "Beaulieu v Finglam", "text": "Beaulieu v Finglam\n\nBeaulieu v Finglam is a landmark and precedent setting case in English tort law. While specifically it set strict liability for the escape of fire, the judgment also demarcated the limits of responsibility and liability for tort cases. It also established the first \"ratio\" of what would become duty of care. Though a duty of care with regard to water and animals had already been established.\n"}
{"id": "1443534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1443534", "title": "Chain of responsibility", "text": "Chain of responsibility\n\nThe chain of responsibility is a policy concept used in Australian transport legislation to place legal obligations on parties in the transport supply chain or across transport industries generally. The concept was initially developed to apply in the heavy vehicle industry in regulated areas such as speeding, fatigue and mass, loading and dimension. It has since spread to other transport sectors, particularly in Victoria where it has been applied in laws which apply to the rail, bus, marine and taxi industries.\n\nThe chain of responsibility concept initially developed out of a recognition that unlawful behaviour by truck drivers is influenced and often controlled by the actions of other parties. Concerns arose that transport laws had often focussed on the actions of drivers while failing to sufficiently recognise and regulate the actions of other key parties. Chain of responsibility laws therefore seek to provide that these other parties cannot encourage, create incentives for, demand or allow drivers to undertake unlawful actions.\n\nIn recent years, the chain of responsibility concept has been widely used as a basis for the reform of transport laws in the State of Victoria. A major review of policy and legislation in that State, the Transport Legislation Review, has led to the concept being adapted for use in a number of new statutes including the Rail Safety Act 2006, the Bus Safety Act 2009 and the Marine Safety Act 2010.\n\nVictoria faced the problem of ageing and inadequate transport legislation which failed to reflect modern policy. During his second reading speech for a new rail safety statute in Victoria, the then Minister for Transport explained that -\n\nAs a result, the Minister explained that -\n\nThe Rail Safety Act which emerged from that process therefore imposes a chain of responsibility across all key parties in the rail industry in Victoria who can influence safety outcomes. Accountability at law and sanctions and penalties are allocated according to the level of responsibility each party has for creating and managing safety risks. Similar approaches were taken by the Transport Legislation Review in its work which led to new statutes in Victoria in the bus, marine and taxi industries.\n\nThe Victorian work has had influence beyond that State. Following the enactment of the Victorian Rail Safety Act in early 2006, Australian Transport Ministers approved a national Model Rail Safety Bill in June 2006 which drew heavily on the Victorian work including its adaption of the chain of responsibility concept. The national Bill proposal has since been adopted by all other States and Territories which have passed Rail Safety Acts reflecting the framework.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54415558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54415558", "title": "Chicago Public School Boycott", "text": "Chicago Public School Boycott\n\nThe Chicago Public School Boycott, also known as Freedom Day, was a mass boycott and demonstration against the segregationist policies of the Chicago Public Schools (CPS) on October 22, 1963. More than 200,000 students stayed out of school, and tens of thousands of Chicagoans joined in a protest that culminated in a march to the office of the Chicago Board of Education. This protest preceded the larger New York City Public School boycott.\n\nAlthough \"Brown v. Board of Education\" prohibited racial segregation in schools, in 1963, Chicago's public schools continued to be segregated as a result of residential segregation. This was exacerbated by the migration of more black Americans from the Southern United States to Chicago during the Jim Crow era. School boundary lines were drawn specifically to preserve racial segregation, even as predominantly black schools grew overcrowded. Classes were held in hallways, and there were not enough books for all of the students. Some schools held double shifts, meaning students attended less than a full day of class. Rather than send black students to underpopulated white schools, CPS Superintendent Benjamin Willis instituted the use of mobile classrooms; 625 aluminium trailers parked in the parking lots and playgrounds of overcrowded schools. Rosie Simpson of Englewood, Chicago, coined the term \"Willis Wagons\" to describe the mobile classrooms. At one high school, these trailers were used to maintain segregation within the school; black students' classes were held in Willis Wagons, while white students went to class in the school.\n\nIn response to the school segregation enacted by Willis, community members began organizing resistance. Organizers included Chicago activist Albert Raby. The Coordinating Council of Community Organizations (CCCO) took the lead, organizing \"Freedom Day,\" the mass boycott and protest. According to the chairman of the CCCO, Lawrence Landry, \"The boycott is an effort to communicate dissatisfaction on how schools are being run.\" \"The Chicago Defender\" estimated that forty percent of CPS students would participate in the boycott. On October 22, 1963, nearly half of all CPS students skipped school, leaving schools on Chicago's South Side and West Side mostly empty. The \"Chicago Tribune\" reported that 224,770 students were absent from CPS, amounting to 47 percent of the student population. In addition to the boycott, nearly 10,000 protesters marched in Chicago's downtown, stopping outside the Chicago Board of Education offices. Chicago police kept protesters from entering the building.\n\nWhile Freedom Day was popular and widely covered, it did not have significant impact in changing the policies of Superintendent Willis. This \"de facto\" school segregation was supported by Mayor Richard J. Daley, who went on to nominate two school board members who did not support the CCCO's push for integration. Ultimately, CPS was not moved to integrate after Freedom Day, despite the best efforts of Black activists and the CCCO. Use of Willis Wagons prevailed, and Willis himself did not retire until 1966 (albeit four months before the end of his term). However, the size of the first Freedom Day protest inspired subsequent boycotts in Chicago and the United States.\n\nThe Freedom Day protest inspired Reverend Martin Luther King Jr.'s move to Chicago in 1966. Before Freedom Day, in August, 1963, then-college student Bernie Sanders was arrested while protesting the policies of Superintendent Willis. A documentary on Freedom Day, \"63 Boycott\", is in production. Today, CPS is the most segregated big-city school district in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2362332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2362332", "title": "Colour trade mark", "text": "Colour trade mark\n\nA colour trade mark (or color trademark, see spelling differences) is a non-conventional trade mark where at least one colour is used to perform the trade mark function of uniquely identifying the commercial origin of products or services. \n\nIn recent times colours have been increasingly used as trade marks in the marketplace. However, it has traditionally been difficult to protect colours as trademarks through registration, as a colour as such was not considered to be a distinctive 'trademark'. This issue was addressed by the World Trade Organization Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, which broadened the legal definition of trademark to encompass \"any sign...capable of distinguishing the goods or services of one undertaking from those of other undertakings\" (article 15(1)).\n\nDespite the recognition which must be accorded to colour trade marks in most countries, the \"graphical representation\" of such marks sometimes constitutes a problem for trademark owners seeking to protect their marks, and different countries have different methods for dealing with this issue.\n\nThis category of trade marks is distinguished from conventional (word or logo) trade marks that feature a specific colour or combination of colours; the latter category of trade marks present different legal issues.\n\nRequirements are set out in the \"Trade Marks Office Manual of Practice and Procedure\" issued by IP Australia.\n\nIn the European Union, Article 4 of \"Council Regulation (EC) No. 40-94\" of 20 December 1993 (\"signs of which a Community Trade Mark may consist\") relevantly states that any CTM may consist of \"any signs capable of being represented graphically...provided that such signs are capable of distinguishing the goods or services of one undertaking from those of other undertakings\". In Libertel Groep v Benelux Merkenbureau (case C-104/01) dated May 6, 2003 the ECJ repeats the criteria from Sieckmann v German Patent Office (case C-273/00) that graphical representation preferably means by images, lines or characters, and that the representation must be clear, precise, self-contained, easily accessible, intelligible, durable and objective.\n\nThis definition generally encompasses colour marks, and therefore an applicant for a CTM or a national trademark in the EC may define their colour trademark using an international colour code such as RAL or Pantone. In most cases, a colour trademark will be registered only after an enhanced distinctiveness through use in the EC has been proved.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, trade marks consisting of colours or combinations of colours can be registered. However, an applicant's ability to register colour trade marks is limited by several considerations, in line with European Union jurisprudence. Thus, for example, while a trade mark described simply as a colour is registrable, a trade mark described as consisting \"predominantly\" of a particular colour is not. In a recent case, the High Court of Justice, Court of Chancery held that an application to register such a trade mark was permissible in \"Société des Produits Nestlé S.A. v. Cadbury UK Limited\" (2012), but on appeal the Court of Appeal reversed the decision in October 2014.\n\nIn the United States, the United States Court of Appeals ruled in 1985 that Owens Corning had the right to prevent competitors from using the colour pink in their insulation products, thus making Owens Corning the first company in the United States to trademark a colour. In 1995, the United States Supreme Court further acknowledged that a colour could be used as a trademark in the case of \"Qualitex Co. v. Jacobson Products Co., Inc.\", 514 U.S. 159 (1995).\nThe trademark owner must show that the trademark colour has acquired substantial distinctiveness, and the colour indicates source of the goods to which it is applied.\n\nThe Lanham Act specifically states that \"[n]o trademark by which the goods of the applicant may be distinguished from the goods of others shall be refused registration on the principal register on account of its nature unless it (e) Consists of a mark which (5) comprises any matter that, as a whole, is functional.\" .\nIf a colour is held functional for any product, then it is not registrable or protectable as a trademark. \nSeveral U.S. Courts have dealt with the matter, and colours have been held functional for various purposes.\nIn Saint-Gobain Corp. v. 3M Co., 90 USPQ2d 1425 (TTAB 2007), the purple colour was considered functional for coated abrasives, because “[i]n the field of coated abrasives, color serves a myriad of functions, including color coding, and the need to color code lends support for the basic finding that color, including purple, is functional in the field of coated abrasives having paper or cloth backing.” Saint-Gobain Corp. v. 3M Co., 90 USPQ2d 1425, 1447 (TTAB 2007).\nThe Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, in In re Ferris Corp., 59 USPQ2d 1587 (TTAB 2000), held that the colour pink for wound dressings was functional and not registrable, as its colour resembles human skin and was selected for this specific purpose.\nIn In re Orange Communications, Inc., 41 USPQ2d 1036 (TTAB 1996), the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board denied registration for the colours orange and yellow for public telephones and telephone booths, because it confers the goods better visibility under any lighting condition.\nAlso, the colour coral was held functional for earplugs, because it makes them easier to see in safety checks. In re Howard S. Leight & Associates Inc., 39 USPQ2d 1058 (TTAB 1996).\n\nIn addition to the functionality bar, the colour cannot have an aesthetically functional purpose in order to be registrable or protected. In Brunswick Corp. v. British Seagull, for example, the United States Patents and Trademark Office's Trademark Trial and Appeal Board held that the black colour was not registrable for outboard motors:\n\"[A]lthough the color black is not functional in the sense that it makes these engines work better, or that it makes them easier or less expensive to manufacture, black is more desirable from the perspective of prospective purchasers because it is color compatible with a wider variety of boat colors and because objects colored black appear smaller than they do when they are painted other lighter or brighter colors. The evidence shows that people who buy outboard motors for boats like the colors of the motors to be harmonious with the colors of their vessels, and that they also find it desirable under some circumstances to reduce the perception of the size of the motors in proportion to the boats.\" British Seagull Ltd. v. Brunswick Corp., 28 USPQ 2d 1197, 1199 (1993).\nEven though there is no direct function for the colour black in this case, protection was denied under the argument that consumers prefer it for aesthetic purposes.\n\nA similar judgement was entered in Deere & Co. v. Farmhand. Deere & Co. tried to establish exclusive use of its John Deere green colour as a trademark, in order to enjoin Farmhand from applying it to its products. Although the John Deere green colour does not provide any specific function to the good to which it is applied, the United States District Court for S.D. Iowa \"found that farmers prefer to match their loaders to their tractor\". Deere & Co. v. Farmhand, Inc., 560 F. Supp. 85, 98 (U.S. Dist. Court S.D. Iowa, 1982). Therefore, if Deere & Co. were awarded exclusive use of the John Deere green, its competitors would be in disadvantage because of reasons unrelated to the functional quality or price of its products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3311548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3311548", "title": "Community Plant Variety Office", "text": "Community Plant Variety Office\n\nThe Community Plant Variety Office (CPVO) is an agency of the European Union, located in Angers, France. It was established in 1994. Its task is to administer a system of plant variety rights, also known as plant breeders' rights, a form of intellectual property right relating to plants.\n\nThe CPVO manages the largest system of plant variety rights in the World. Since the creation of the CPVO in 1995 the office has received over 61,000, of which it granted over 47,000 applications, with over 25,000 titles currently in force.\n\nPlant variety rights allow plant breeders to protect new varieties (or types of plants). The CPVO was created to encourage the creation of new plant varieties in the European Union, through the provision of better intellectual property protection for plant breeders. The Community plant variety right, gives the holder of this right an exclusive right to market the protected variety within the territory of the European Union. The Community PVR is valid for a period of 25 to 30 years.\n\nThe Breeders’ Exemption ensures that anyone is allowed to use protected (PVR) varieties as a basis for the creation of new varieties. The Breeders’ Exemption exists to ensure that PVR and the need to reward breeders for their work is balanced with the need for new & better varieties to reach & benefit the consumer as quickly as possible. It also ensures the continued production of new varieties as breeders need access to as much genetic resources as possible, including protected varieties, in order to create new varieties.\n\nThe CPVO system of PVR protection means that only one application need be made (directly to the CPVO) in order to attain EU wide protection. Before its introduction, EU wide protection was only possible through obtaining national plant variety rights from the individual member states. That option still exists today. \n\nAs part of the application procedure, each candidate variety is tested by an examination office. The examination offices are based in the member states, where they are operated by national experts. The examination offices determine whether the variety is distinct, uniform and stable – this is called a DUS test. The CPVO does not own any technical infrastructure.\n\nThe results of the DUS tests are used by the CPVO when taking the decision to grant or refuse a PVR application.\n\nBased in Angers, France the CPVO was created by the Council Regulation 2100/94 and has been operational since the 27 April 1995.\n\nThe CPVO is entirely self-financed. It neither takes from nor contributes to the EU budget. The CPVO’s budget is principally derived from PVR application fees paid by breeders who wish to protect their creations. \nThe President of the CPVO is appointed by the Council of the European Union. The President is responsible for the overall functioning of the CPVO – this includes the implementation of the CPVO’s legislative duties and all operational aspects of the CPVO. The current president of the CPVO is Martin Ekvad. Ekvad was appointed to this position in 2011. Prior to his appointment, Ekvad held the position of Head of the Legal Unit of the CPVO from 2003 to 2011.\n\nThe CPVO is supervised by the Administrative Council (AC) of the CPVO. The AC is made up of representatives from across the 28 member states, representatives from the European Commission and observer organisations. The AC is also the budgetary authority of the CPVO and adopts the responsibilities annual work programme.\n\n"}
{"id": "52550315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52550315", "title": "Constitutional Court of Abkhazia", "text": "Constitutional Court of Abkhazia\n\nThe Constitutional Court of the Republic of Abkhazia was created in 2016. Judges are elected by the People's Assembly with a two-thirds majority for fifteen year terms and may not be re-elected. Candidates are nominated by the President and must have a law degree, at least fifteen years experience in a legal profession and must at least forty years old. A group of at least one third of all deputies may formally propose candidates to the President.\n\nThe law on the Constitutional Court prescribed that it would have five judges, that it would start operating when at least three judges had been sworn in and that this had to happen by 1 January 2017.\n\nIn November 2016, President Raul Khajimba nominated five candidates: former Justice Minister Liudmila Khojashvili, former Central Election Chairman Sergei Smir, two time Presidential candidate Iakub Lakoba, as well as Tamaz Ketsba and Raul Pant. On 22 November, the People's Assembly elected Khojashvili and Pant with 26 and 25 votes respectively, while Smyr, Ketsba and Lakoba received only 20, 17 and 12 votes out of 35 total. Parliament's failure to approve three out of five candidates was criticised by Khajimba, claiming that the procedure obliged deputies to vote for or against, while many had in fact abstained, and pointing out that Ketsba's candidacy in particular had been proposed by a group of Parliament members. On 29 November, Khojashvili and Pant were formally sworn in.\n\nFollowing opposition protests against the government of Khajimba, the opposition and the government reached an agreement whereby the opposition could nominate a new Prosecutor General and two members of the Constitutional Court. It selected the lawyer Roza Zantaria and Sukhumi City Court judge Rustam Chagava. In addition, incumbent Prosecutor General Nuri Tania was nominated as Constitutional Court judge. However, on 29 December, the People's Assembly postponed the vote stating that it rejected Chagava as too inexperienced and that Zantaria had refused the nomination.\n\nBecause the deadline on the formation of the Constitutional Court had been missed, on 18 January 2017 the People's Assembly adopted a bill formally postponing the deadline to 1 June 2017. It also elected Tania with the support of 24 of the 27 deputies present. On 10 February, the People's Assembly elected with 25 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 spoiled ballots a different opposition nominee, Head of the Cabinet Staff Diana Pilia.\n"}
{"id": "40373002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40373002", "title": "Convention and Statute on the International Régime of Maritime Ports", "text": "Convention and Statute on the International Régime of Maritime Ports\n\nThe Convention and Statute on the International Régime of Maritime Ports is a 1923 League of Nations multilateral treaty whereby port states agree to treat ships equally, regardless of the nationality of the ship.\n\nThe Convention was concluded in Geneva on 9 December 1923 and entered into force on 26 July 1926. The states that ratify the Convention agree to allow all ships the freedom to access maritime ports and to not discriminate against ships based on the maritime flag the ship flies. The Convention remains in force and forms of the basis of the expectation at international law of equal treatment in maritime ports.\n\nThe Convention was most recently ratified in 2001, by Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Thailand ratified the Convention in 1925 but denounced it in 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20208217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20208217", "title": "Cotton Futures Act", "text": "Cotton Futures Act\n\nThe Cotton Futures Act of 1914 authorized the United States Department of Agriculture to establish physical standards as a means of determining color grade, staple length and strength, and other qualities and properties for cotton. It was intended to minimize speculative manipulation of the cotton market. \n\nThe Act was rendered unconstitutional in Federal district court because it originated in the Senate. As a revenue act, it should have been drafted in the House. It was replaced by the Cotton Futures Act of 1916.\n"}
{"id": "22521907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22521907", "title": "Courtroom View Network", "text": "Courtroom View Network\n\nCourtroom View Network (CVN), the media division of Courtroom Connect, is a US company webcasting video from civil trials. CVN is also the exclusive non-judicial provider of trials video to Westlaw.\n\nCVN webcasts courtroom proceedings, including civil trials, hearings, and oral arguments. CVN’s video has been used by the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Reuters, Bloomberg, Associated Press, TheStreet, The American Lawyer, and LawyersUSA. Prominent trials are sometimes live-blogged using a video feed from Courtroom View Network.\n\nCVN was founded in 2006. Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, CVN also has offices in New York City, NY; Washington, D.C.; and Sunnyvale, California.\n\nOn October 14, 2008, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York held that CVN was entitled to webcast a federal hearing over the objection of one of the parties.\n\nOn April 16, 2009, a federal district court's order allowing CVN to webcast a hearing in a high-profile copyright infringement case was reversed by the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, which blocked the webcast.\n\nOn December 3, 2010, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled that Courtroom View Network was a member of the news media and a news gathering organization entitled to webcast courtroom proceedings in Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "12609669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12609669", "title": "Daniel A. Farber", "text": "Daniel A. Farber\n\nDaniel A. Farber (born July 16, 1950) is an American author and historian.\n\nBorn in Chicago, Illinois, Farber graduated the University of Illinois, earning his B.A. (pre-law), M.A. (sociology), and J.D. degrees. He graduated \"summa cum laude\" from the College of Law, where he was class valedictorian. Farber also clerked for Justice John Paul Stevens at the United States Supreme Court.\n\nHe has contributed to the history of law, and constitutional and environmental law in the United States. He has written and lectured in the areas of law, legislation, and jurisprudence. Farber is the first Henry J. Fletcher Professor of Law, and holds an appointment as Sho Sato Professor of Law at the University of California at Berkeley. In 1981 he became a member of the University of Minnesota Law School faculty. During his years there he was the first Henry J. Fletcher Professor of Law in 1987, served as a visiting professor at Stanford Law School, Harvard Law School and the University of Chicago Law School, and was named McKnight Presidential Professor of Public Law in 2000.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13232022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13232022", "title": "Denunciation (penology)", "text": "Denunciation (penology)\n\nDenunciation in the context of sentencing philosophy is the disapproval of an act by society that is expressed by the imposition of a sentence. This is one of the purposes of sentencing, as well as a possible justification for the imposition of a sentence.\n\nDenunciation arguments can be used to justify more serious sentences than are required by the principles of retribution and deterrence.\n\nDenunciation arguments can also be used to justify the existence of laws which are never enforced; they stand as statements of a society's values rather than working parts of a criminal justice system.\n"}
{"id": "30948649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30948649", "title": "Draft United Nations resolution on Israeli settlements, 2011", "text": "Draft United Nations resolution on Israeli settlements, 2011\n\nThe Draft United Nations resolution on Israeli settlements placed before the United Nations Security Council proposed that all Israeli settlements established in the occupied Palestinian territories after 1967 be condemned, and urged that Israel and Palestine comply with their obligations under the Road Map plan in order to establish a two-State solution. The resolution failed to pass after the United States exercised its right to veto on February 18, 2011. The other 14 members of the council voted in favour of the resolution.\n\nThe peace process was revitalized in September 2010, with direct talks between Israel and Palestine, with the U.S. supporting the negotiations. With little headway made, the Palestinian National Authority decided to present a draft resolution to the Security Council, resisting strong pressure from both United States President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.\n\nA month into the discussions a roadblock was hit when a 10-month settlement construction freeze was allowed to expire on September 26. On October 2, Mahmoud Abbas announced that peace negotiations will not continue until settlement construction is once again stopped.\n\nThe resolution was sponsored by over 120 of the UN's 192 members states.\nThe U.S. attempted several times to persuade Palestine to rescind the resolution or accept a non-binding resolution instead. Palestine refused and brought the resolution to the Security Council. The final vote was 14 for and the U.S., whose vote holds veto power, alone was against it. The United States, in voting against a resolution that would have condemned Israeli settlements as illegal, argued that while settlement activity violated international legality, the resolution, if passed, would only harden the positions of both sides, complicate stalled negotiations and hinter future talks. Over 120 U.N. member states supported the resolution. This was the first U.N. veto used by the Obama administration. A spokesman for Mahmoud Abbas commented that the US veto allowed Israel to escape its obligations. Israel's Foreign Ministry expressed its appreciation for the US position, and expressed regret that the other Security Council members had refrained from making the same contribution.\n\n\nA protest is held outside the U.S. embassy in Tel Aviv, Israel, the day following the vote, with approximately 50 people attending it. One protestor was reported to have stated the protest was part of \"a new campaign pointing a finger at the US complicity in Israeli crimes.\" The following Sunday, approximately 3000 Palestinians gather in Ramallah to protest the veto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9745603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9745603", "title": "Enhanced use lease", "text": "Enhanced use lease\n\nIn the United States Enhanced Use Lease (EUL) is a method for funding construction or renovations on federal property by allowing a private developer to lease underutilized property, with rent paid by the developer in the form of cash or in-kind services. Currently, EULs are used by the Department of Defense and the Veterans Administration. Temporary authority has also been granted to the General Services Agency and the National Aeronatics and Space Administration. EUL authority is derived from Congress and is specific to each agency (e.g. 10 USC 2667 for the DoD). The information below is specific to DoD EULs.\n\nGranted a ground lease (the term may vary by agency or project), the developer is able to make improvements to the property which can be leased at market rents to any interested tenants. Under EUL, the U.S. government retains control over the leased property, the EUL developer (lessee) retaines a lease interest only.\n\nSince the agency can issue enhanced use leases only on land that is unneeded, the improvements must not be directly tied to any programmatic requirements of the installation. \n\nThe advantages to the developer include prime secure convenient locations on military installations, and the opportunity to provide sole-source services and products in lieu of rent for the ground lease. \n\nThe advantages to the federal agency include the possibility of fast-tracking alterations, repairs or new construction so that the improved space becomes available for lease. In-kind considerations or cash to no less than the fair market value of the property is provided in return by the developer.\n\nThe enhanced use lease is becoming a very popular tool to accommodate realignment of military functions under Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). Military installations are legally bound, but not necessarily funded, to accommodate BRAC-mandated realignments of functions. \n\nThe use of EULs has mushroomed with the expanded authority of Title 10 USC, Section 2667, of the National Defense Authorization Act. It remains to be seen whether this form of privatization will create increased financial, security or environmental risks. Legal complications that have emerged include how EUL-encumbered property will be treated when an installation is targeted for closure under BRAC (example, Building 40 at Walter Reed).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16457643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16457643", "title": "European Round Table on Patent Practice", "text": "European Round Table on Patent Practice\n\nThe European Round Table on Patent Practice (EUROTAB) is described as \"a pan-European group consisting of lawyers (including European Patent Office (EPO) staff, and Commission, national patent offices) in the patent field\", or a body where the national patent offices of the Contracting States of the European Patent Convention (EPC) and the European Patent Office come together to discuss differences in practice and see whether a harmonized approach is possible.\n\nAlong with the Standing Advisory Committee before the European Patent Office (SACEPO), a committee advising the European Patent Office on patent law issues, and the European Patent Judges' Symposium, EUROTAB is one of the most significant and institutionalised forums of legal professionals created and sponsored by the EPO. Already in the 1990s, \"the strong interest and active participation of contracting states in these discussions confirm[ed] the growing importance of EUROTAB as an expert forum on patent practice in Europe\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30873505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873505", "title": "Exotic pet", "text": "Exotic pet\n\nAn exotic pet is a rare or unusual animal pet: an animal kept within human households which is generally thought of as a wild species rather than as a pet.\n\nThe definition is an evolving one; some rodents, reptiles, and amphibians have become firmly enough established in the world of animal fancy to sometimes no longer be considered exotic. Sometimes any unique or wild-looking pet (including common domestic animals such as the ferret and the fancy rat) is considered an exotic pet.\n\n\"Exotic\" generally refers to a species which is not native or indigenous to the owner's locale, and \"pet\" is a companion animal living with people. Therefore, the American College of Zoological Medicine has defined the group as \"zoological companion animals\".\n\nLegally, the definition is subject to local jurisdiction, but in the United States is defined federally, in part, as \"[An animal] ... that is native to a foreign country or of foreign origin or character, is not native to the United States, or was introduced from abroad\" (a broad scope which would include most pets, such as housecats, domesticated dog breeds, horses, canaries, and parakeets). However, \"[The term pet] ...excludes exotic animals and wild animals.\"\n\n\nThe Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna, or CITES, moderates the trade of some exotic pets around the world, to prevent any threats to their survival and ecological damage. Certain animals may be strictly regulated or restricted outright due to both their conservation status, as well as the possibility of the animal becoming an invasive species.\n\nThe USDA issues permits for keeping and breeding certain exotic species, whether captured from the wild or bred. In the United States, for example, it is illegal to import non-human primates for the pet trade, but animals bred in captivity exist in the trade, using animals descended from those brought in legally before the ban was enacted. As of September 2014, most US states forbid or regulate the possession of exotic pets, but 5 states have no license or permit requirements.\n\nIn 2003, the US Captive Wild Animal Safety Act became law and in September 2007 the US Fish and Wildlife Service enacted rules to enforce the CWASA. The law now bans the sale or transport of big cats, which includes lions, tigers, leopards, jaguars, cougars, snow leopards, clouded leopards, cheetahs and their hybrids across state lines for the pet trade.\n\nIllegally transporting exotic pets is also known as wildlife smuggling, and the industry generates an estimated $7 Billion to $23 Billion (USD) each year. \n\nWhile there are many ways that live animals are smuggled across borders, there are often heavy losses due to the methods of transportation; many species of small animals can be piled into tiny, and usually airtight, containers and often die as a result. In one example of smuggling, slow lorises trafficked from Indonesia have their teeth removed prior to being sold locally, or exported to Japan or Russia. The animals are not given any pain relievers during their surgeries.\n\nInternational treaties (such as CITES) have been established to combat the illegal sale and transport of vulnerable animals and plants, but failure to properly enforce these regulations leave many loopholes for the illegal trade to continue. For example, the United States has both signed CITES during its creation as well as created its own national laws against the import and sale of elephant ivory, but as of 2008 it was found to be the second largest importer of it behind China. \n\nHistorically, trade in exotic pets has been known to drive the destruction and extinction of animals in the wild. To a much smaller extent, this holds today: one of the major factors behind the status of the slow loris is the fact it is often kept locally as a pet, or traded to Japan.\n\nHowever, with captive breeding of exotic animals becoming more prevalent, fewer and fewer animals are being captured from the wild. \n\nVeterinary costs for treatment of exotic animals may be significantly higher than for a more conventional pet, owing to the increased specialization required.\n\nZoonotic disease is known to occur in a small number of exotic pets. The American Veterinary Medical Association, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the National Animal Control Association, the American Zoo and Aquarium Association and the CDC all discourage the private ownership of certain exotic animals. Animals that are captive-bred in the United States have no risk of contracting any harmful disease as they are not exposed to it in any way.\n\nIn the UK, where exotic pet ownership is high, voluntary organizations such as \"SEEPR\" (South East Exotic Pet Rescue) take in unwanted, ill, or lost exotic animals and nurse them back to full health before rehoming them.\n\nProviding appropriate environmental conditions, housing and diet for an exotic animal may be difficult for several reasons:\n\n\nHowever, captive care and husbandry information for many commonly kept amphibians, reptiles, birds, and small exotic mammals are widely available through literature, animal enthusiast groups, and Internet websites and discussion forums.\n\nExotic animals retain their unpredictable wild nature, with some being physically capable of maiming or killing their owners. Mammals are the most likely exotic pets to injure or kill humans, with non-human primates topping the list. \n\nEven if they are bred for the pet trade and raised by humans, they may be unpredictable, relatively resistant to training; in some cases, especially as full-grown adults, they can be dangerous. Injuries to humans may be relatively common, but reported yearly deaths due to exotic pet ownership are rare. Statistics compiled by an advocacy organization indicate a yearly average of less than 3.5 fatalities per year in the United States; and another lists 87 exotic animal incidents resulting in human death from Jun 20, 1990 to Apr 15, 2016. \n\nIt has been estimated that as many as 15,000 non-human primates are kept by private individuals as pets in the United States. Nine states ban the keeping of non-human primates, but no federal law regulates ownership. In 1975, the Center for Disease Control prohibited their import into the US for use as pets. The breeding industry uses descendants of animals imported before 1975. Non-human primates of various species, including those listed as endangered, such as cottontop tamarins, baboons, chimpanzees, Diana monkeys, lemurs and gibbons are still available for purchase in the US, although due to captive breeding, this does not affect wild populations. For example, chimpanzees are popular in some areas despite their strength, aggression, and wild nature. Even in areas where keeping non-human primates as pets is illegal, the exotic pet trade continues to prosper and some people keep chimpanzees as pets mistakenly believing that they will bond with them for life. As they grow, so do their strength and aggression; some owners and others interacting with the animals have lost fingers and suffered severe facial damage among other injuries sustained in attacks.\n\nMany professionals, including veterinarians, zoologists, humane societies and others, strongly discourage the keeping of primates as pets, as their complex emotional and social needs and other highly specialized requirements may be difficult to meet by the average owner.\n\nAlthough the breeding population has been largely isolated from wild populations outside the US, they still have the potential to transmit zoonotic disease. There is a considerable risk of monkey B virus from rhesus macaques. Research workers have died from this disease contracted from non-human primate research subjects. Additionally, there is considerable risk to the non-human primate pet through transmission of human disease. One such example is herpes simplex virus, which can be deadly to certain smaller monkeys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15813321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15813321", "title": "FADO", "text": "FADO\n\nFADO (which stands for \"False and Authentic Documents Online\") is a European image-archiving system that was set up to help combat illegal immigration and organised crime. It was established by a Joint Action of the Council of the European Union enacted in 1998.\n\nThe proliferation of genuine and false documents means that frequent updating is essential. Ever more sophisticated techniques are being used to produce both genuine documents and forgeries. A computerised system with restricted access has therefore been built that enables fast and secure information exchange between the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union and between document experts in the European Union member states, Iceland, Norway and Switzerland.\n\nThe database established by the FADO Joint Acts includes the following data:\n\n\nFADO is currently available to document experts in 31 FADO partner states: in all member states of the European Union (EU) and in Iceland, Norway and in Switzerland.\n\nPart of the information shared by document experts in the classified, restricted system, FADO, is made publicly available, via the Public Register of Authentic Documents Online (PRADO) website which is managed by the Council of the European Union.\n\nDocument descriptions in FADO are available in all 24 official languages of the European Union. Documents are introduced by document experts in any of the languages and the standardised descriptions are translated automatically; thus, documents are immediately available in all supported languages. Additional free text information contained is translated later on by specialised linguists of the General Secretariat of the Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1295397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1295397", "title": "Family Procedure Rules", "text": "Family Procedure Rules\n\nThe Family Procedure Rules (previously Family Proceedings Rules), often abbreviated FPR, govern the procedures used in family courts in England and Wales. The Family Procedure Rules 2010 were introduced by Statutory Instrument and are effective 6 April 2011.\n\nPart 7 (Paragraph 75) of the Courts Act 2003 states that \"Family Procedure Rules are to be made by a committee known as the Family Procedure Rule Committee\", and specifies who should be on that committee. The Courts Act also states, \"Family Procedure Rules may modify the rules of evidence as they apply to family proceedings in any court within the scope of the rules\".\n\nThe Family Procedure Rules 2010 are split into 36 parts, together with the Practice Directions, certain Pre Action Protocols and a complete set of Forms. They are intended to modernise and standardise family court practice across the High Court, County Court and Magistrates’ Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "50737859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50737859", "title": "Gender identity under Title IX", "text": "Gender identity under Title IX\n\nTitle IX of the United States Education Amendments of 1972 prohibits discrimination \"on the basis of sex\" in educational programs and activities that receive financial assistance from the federal government. The Obama administration interpreted Title IX it to cover discrimination on the basis of assigned sex, gender identity, and transgender status. The Trump administration determined that the question of access to sex-segregated facilities should be left to the states and local school districts to decide. The validity of the executive's position is being tested in the federal courts.\n\nCongress kept the core provision of Title IX very brief, only one sentence long. The interpretation and implementation of Title IX was left to the executive, whom Congress expressly \"authorized and directed to effectuate the [statute] by issuing rules, regulations, or orders of general applicability which shall be consistent with achievement of [its] objectives ...\"\n\nPresident Nixon initially directed the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) to carry this out. In 1980, HEW was split into two separate agencies —the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Department of Education (DOE). Primary responsibility for Title IX enforcement in educational institutions was delegated to DOE's Office for Civil Rights (OCR).\n\nThe Obama administration's efforts to apply Title IX to protect LGBT students go back to President Obama's first term in office. In an October 2010 \"Dear Colleague\" letter, OCR issued guidance on clarifying that Title IX protects LGBT students from harassment on the basis of sex stereotypes. Specifically, OCR stated that, although Title IX does not prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation, \"[t]he fact that the harassment [of a hypothetical gender non-conforming student] includes anti‐LGBT comments or is partly based on the target's actual or perceived sexual orientation does not relieve a school of its obligation under Title IX to investigate and remedy overlapping sexual harassment or gender‐based harassment.\" In a 2014 Q&A document, OCR wrote unequivocally that \"Title IX's sex discrimination prohibition extends to claims of discrimination based on gender identity or failure to conform to stereotypical notions of masculinity or femininity and OCR accepts such complaints for investigation.\"\n\nSimultaneously with evolving subregulatory guidance, OCR started conducting enforcement actions under Title IX against school districts where discrimination against transgender students was alleged to have taken place. For example, in 2013, OCR reached a settlement with the Arcadia (Calif.) Unified School District, stemming from the complaint by a transgender boy, who was denied the use of boys' restrooms and locker rooms and was required to sleep alone in a separate cabin on an overnight school trip. In reaching the conclusion that Title IX applied to the facts of the Arcadia case, OCR took the position discriminating against a transgender student can be a form of sex discrimination, and that the scope of Title IX should be analyzed in light of parallel precedent under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of \"sex\" in an employment context. Title VII has also been interpreted to encompass discrimination based on sex stereotypes, gender identity, and transgender status by the EEOC and many federal courts.\n\nOn May 13, 2016, the Department of Justice (DOJ) and DOE issued joint guidance to educational institutions on the scope of Title IX, in the form of a Dear Colleague letter and an accompanying compendium of actual policies and practices, which had previously been enacted by state agencies and school districts throughout the U.S. The guidance formalized the administration's previously stated view that Title IX prohibits discrimination on the basis of gender identity and clarified that transgender students should therefore be treated consistent with their gender identity at school.\n\nIn practical terms, the administration instructed schools that Title IX's prohibition on discrimination means that schools generally must:\nThe guidance permitted a limited exception for athletics, where accommodating transgender students would impair \"the competitive fairness or physical safety of the sport.\"\n\nReactions to the Dear Colleague letter were sharply polarized. Head of the DOJ Civil Rights Division Vanita Gupta expressed hope that the guidance would give transgender students \"a safe, supportive environment that allows them to thrive and grow.\" First Lady of New York City Chirlane McCray spoke approvingly of the guidance, saying that it \"reaffirms a basic human right.\" Chad Griffin of the Human Rights Campaign said that the guidance \"sen[t] a message that every student deserves to be treated fairly and supported by their teachers and schools.\"\n\nConservative politicians voiced opposition to the letter. Texas Lt. Governor Dan Patrick urged school officials to disregard the administration's Title IX guidance, which he considered \"blackmail.\" Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump called on the federal government to take no position on discrimination against transgender students, which in his view should be an issue for the states. Rep. Brian Babin [R-TX] introduced HR 5294 to invalidate the \"Dear Colleague\" letter until superseded by an Act of Congress. In 2016 (HR 5812), and again in 2017 (HR 2796) after the prior bill had died in committee, Rep. Pete Olson [R-TX] introduced federal legislation which would limit gender identity to biological assignation, which would remove the ability to apply federal civil rights protections to transgender individuals. Olson stated the legislation was in reaction to \"the Obama Administration strongly [overreaching] by unilaterally redefining the definition of \"sex\" with respect to the Civil Rights Act outside of the lawmaking process.\" Olson went on to call on Congress to \"reject the notion of false power stolen from Congress by a White House seeking to impose social policy on America.\"\n\nIn February 2017, the Department of Justice and Department of Education under the Trump administration withdrew the guidance on gender identity issued by the Obama administration. A letter issued by the departments cited a need to \"more completely consider the legal issues involved\", and stated that \"there must be due regard for the primary role of the States and local school districts in establishing education policy\".\n\nIn June 2017, Acting Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights Candice Jackson issued instructions to directors of DOE's regional civil rights offices, providing that, although the Obama-era guidance had been rescinded, they may investigate and resolve certain kinds of allegations of sex discrimination involving transgender students, such as \"failure to promptly and equitably resolve a transgender student's complaint of sex discrimination; ... failure to assess whether sexual harassment (i.e., unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature) or gender-based harassment (i.e., based on sex stereotyping, such as acts of verbal, nonverbal, or physical aggression, intimidation, or hostility based on sex or sex-stereotyping, such as refusing to use a transgender student's preferred name or pronouns when the school uses preferred\nnames for gender-conforming students or when the refusal is motivated by animus toward people who do not conform to sex stereotypes) of a transgender student created a hostile environment; ... failure to take steps reasonably calculated to address sexual or gender-based harassment that creates a hostile environment; ... retaliation against a transgender student after concerns about possible sex discrimination were brought to the recipient's attention; ... and different treatment based on sex stereotyping (e.g., based on a student's failure to conform to stereotyped notions of masculinity or femininity).\" \n\nIn February 2018, a DOE spokesperson clarified that \"Title IX prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex, not gender identity ... Where students, including transgender students, are penalized or harassed for failing to conform to sex-based stereotypes, that is sex discrimination prohibited by Title IX ... In the case of bathrooms, however, long-standing regulations provide that separating facilities on the basis of sex is not a form of discrimination prohibited by Title IX.\"\n\nIn October 2018, \"The New York Times\" obtained a memo issued by the Department of Health and Human Services that would propose a strict definition of gender for Title IX, using the person's sex as assigned at birth and could not be changed, effectively eliminating recognition of transgendered students and potentially others. The memo stated that the government needed to define gender \"on a biological basis that is clear, grounded in science, objective and administrable\". The news brought immediate protests in several locations as well as online social media under the \"#WontBeErased\" hashtag.\n\nStarting in 2010, OCR brought a number of successful enforcement actions under Title IX on behalf of students who were subject to harassment or discrimination on the basis of their gender identity, gender expression, or failure to conform to gender stereotypes. Eight of the cases were settled in favor of the students. Several private lawsuits were brought as well on similar grounds. In 2016, the Fourth Circuit became the first Court of Appeals to rule on the scope of Title IX as applied to transgender students, in the case of Virginia high school student Gavin Grimm (\"G. G. v. Gloucester County School Board\").\n\nGrimm came out as a transgender boy while a student at Gloucester High School in Virginia. After he began using male facilities, the Gloucester County School Board passed a policy resolution requiring that access to changing rooms and bathrooms \"shall be limited to the corresponding biological genders, and students with gender identity issues shall be provided an alternative appropriate private facility\". At the school board meeting, speakers addressing the board called Grimm a \"freak\" and compared him to a dog. When he refused to use the girls' bathroom, Grimm was offered the use of some broom closets that had been retrofitted into unisex bathrooms. Grimm refused to use those as well, opting to use a bathroom in the school nurse's office.\n\nGrimm obtained legal representation from the American Civil Liberties Union, sued the school under Title IX and referred the case to the DOJ. The federal government agreed to intervene in the case on Grimm's behalf, writing to the court that Title IX \"prohibits discrimination based on sex, including gender identity, transgender status, and nonconformity to sex stereotypes\".\n\nJudge Robert G. Doumar of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia dismissed Grimm's Title IX claim and denied his request for an injunction. In his ruling, Judge Doumar held that Title IX's operative provision should be read narrowly to cover discrimination on the basis of genetic \"sex\" only, and not gender identity or expression. During the proceedings in the District Court, Judge Doumar made a number of idiosyncratic statements from the bench, saying that being transgender is a \"mental disorder\", delivering off-topic criticism of the federal government on the issues of marijuana enforcement and sanctuary cities, and explaining that Grimm is a female who \"wants to be male\". In reviewing the case, the Court of Appeals criticized Judge Doumar's conduct in the courtroom, writing that his \"extraneous remarks [and] suppositions ... marred the hearing\".\n\nGrimm appealed to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. On April 19, 2016, a three-judge panel of that court overturned Judge Doumar's decision with respect to Title IX. In their ruling, two of the three panel members agreed with the government's position that the regulation governing sex-segregated facilities is ambiguous, and held that its interpretation of this regulation is entitled to \"deference and is to be accorded controlling weight\" under \"Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.\" and \"Auer v. Robbins\". Accordingly, the Court of Appeals sent the case back to the District Court for further proceedings granting deference to DOE's interpretation of the Title IX regulation. The school board moved for rehearing \"en banc\", but the Fourth Circuit declined to rehear the case. On June 23, Judge Doumar issued a preliminary injunction in Grimm's favor.\n\nThe Supreme Court stayed the Circuit Court's decision in August 2016, and in October 2016, it agreed to take up the case. The Court reversed its decision to hear the case on March 6, 2017, and vacated the judgment in Grimm's favor citing the Trump administration's withdrawal of the DOE interpretation of the Title IX regulation to which the Fourth Circuit had granted deference.\n\nBefore being vacated by the Supreme Court, the ruling by the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals had controlling status in federal courts located in the states served by the Fourth Circuit – Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina – and was expected to influence the litigation over North Carolina's anti-LGBT law, the Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act. The Fourth Circuit ruling would have served as controlling precedent in the North Carolina litigation with respect to Title IX only – and not with respect to Title VII claims (discrimination in the employment context). The two statutes are closely linked, however: according to Duke University School of Law professor Katharine T. Bartlett, \"it would be inconceivable [that courts] would decide that transgender bias is sex discrimination under Title IX, but not under Title VII.\"\n\nOn May 22, U.S. District Judge Arenda Wright Allen of the U.S. District Court of the Eastern District of Virginia denied the Gloucester County School Board's motion to dismiss the case and ruled that Grimm had a valid claim.\n\nIn July 2016, Ash Whitaker, a transgender boy, filed suit against the Kenosha Unified School District in Wisconsin because the district denied him access to the boys' restrooms in violation of Title IX and the Equal Protection Clause of the U.S. Constitution. In September 2016, a federal district court decided that the school district must let him use the boys' restroom. The school district appealed, and a three-judge panel of the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously ruled in the student's favor, finding that \"a policy that requires an individual to use a bathroom that does not conform with his or her gender identity punishes that individual for his or her gender non‐conformance, which in turn violates Title IX.\"\n\nOn March 23, 2016, North Carolina enacted the Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act. Among the provisions of the Act is a requirement on North Carolina schools to prohibit transgender students from using bathroom and changing facilities corresponding to their gender identity. On May 4, 2016, the federal government notified Gov. Pat McCrory, the North Carolina Department of Public Safety, and the University of North Carolina system that the Act violates Title IX (\"inter alia\"), and asked North Carolina not to implement it. Failure to comply could result in the loss of billions of dollars in federal funding to the state, including $1.4 billion for the UNC system and $800 million for federally backed student loans.\n\nOn May 9, 2016, North Carolina and the federal government filed suits against each other. McCrory filed one lawsuit and Senate leader Phil Berger and House Speaker Tim Moore filed a second lawsuit against the United States, both in the Eastern District of North Carolina (assigned to Judge Terrence Boyle), seeking declaratory judgment that the Act was not discriminatory. The DOJ filed suit against North Carolina in the Middle District of North Carolina (assigned to Judge Thomas D. Schroeder), asking the court to stop the state from discriminating against transgender people based, in part, on Title IX. Attorney General Loretta Lynch described the lawsuit:\n\nOn May 25, 2016, eleven states sued to the federal government in the Northern District of Texas in at attempt to overturn the Dear Colleague letter and other administration efforts to protect transgender students under Title IX. Joining lead plaintiff Texas were the states of Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, Louisiana, Maine, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, West Virginia and Wisconsin. In their complaint, the plaintiff states alleged that by \"rewriting\" Title IX to cover discrimination on the basis of gender identity, the federal government had \"conspired to turn ... educational settings across the country into laboratories for a massive social experiment, flouting the democratic process, and running roughshod over commonsense policies protecting children and basic privacy rights\". The case was assigned to Judge Reed Charles O'Connor.\n\nAfter the suit was filed and before any court action, Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick urged schools to ignore the federal government's Title IX guidance and refuse to allow transgender students to use the facilities consistent with their gender identity.\n\nMississippi and Kentucky have joined the original plaintiffs in the litigation, and Kansas is considering joining as well.\n\nOn March 3, 2017, \"Texas\" was withdrawn by the plaintiff states in light of the recission by the Education and Justice Departments of guidance letters.\n\n"}
{"id": "25113898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25113898", "title": "Green building in Mexico", "text": "Green building in Mexico\n\nGreen building in Mexico\n\nThe Mexican town of San Felipe, Baja California, is home to the largest solar-powered community in North America (3000+ home sites), with completely off-the-grid neighborhoods within El Dorado Ranch, a development in San Felipe.\n\nBecause of the arid climate in this Gulf of California town, a number of green building initiatives have been implemented including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4429491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4429491", "title": "Heirs of the body", "text": "Heirs of the body\n\nIn English law, heirs of the body is the principle that certain types of property pass to a descendant of the original holder, recipient or grantee according to a fixed order of kinship. Upon the death of the grantee, a designated inheritance such as a parcel of land, a peerage, or a monarchy, passes automatically to that living, legitimate, natural descendant of the grantee who is most senior in descent according to primogeniture, males being preferred, however, over their sisters regardless of relative age; and thereafter the property continues to pass to subsequent descendants of the grantee, according to the same formula, upon the death of each subsequent heir. \n\nBaronies created by writ of summons to Parliament usually descend to heirs of the body of the grantee, and may thus be inherited by females. By the terms of the Act of Settlement 1701 and the Acts of Union 1707, the Crown of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland descends to heirs of the body of the Electress Sophia of Hanover who are not Catholics or married to Catholics, subject to subsequent modification by Parliament (e.g. His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act 1936 and the Succession to the Crown Act 2013).\n\nIn property law, a conveyance by the owner O \"To A and heirs of the body\", without more, creates a fee tail for the grantee (A) with a reversion in the grantor (O) should the natural, lawful descendants of the grantee all die out. Each person who inherits according to this formula is considered an heir at law of the grantee. Since the inheritance may not pass to someone who is not a natural, lawful descendant of the grantee, the heir is necessarily also \"of the body\" of the grantee. Collateral kin, who share some or all of the grantee's ancestry, but do not directly descend from the grantee, may not inherit. When there are no more heirs of the body, the terms of the original grant are expired, and the property becomes extinct (e.g. peerage), or some other criterion for allocating the property to a new possessor must be applied. If the original grant stipulated an alternative formula for succession upon exhaustion of heirs, that formula is immediately applicable. Thus, if a peerage is granted to \"heirs of the body of John Smith, failing which, to heirs general\", the title would pass to a descendant of John Smith's sibling when all of John Smith's descendants die out.\n\nThus property settled upon someone and the heirs of their body—whether male, female, or generally—will pass to children, grandchildren and so on, but not to nephews of the grantee, his or her sisters, uncles and their descendants. Nor will a limitation in a grant to someone's \"heirs\" carry the property to collateral heirs in England, since the law presumes that \"heirs of the body\" are meant though a grant to the grantee and his heirs male will.\n\nThere are other kinds of formulae for inheritance than heirs of the body, such as heirs male, heirs of the line, heirs portioners, heirs general, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "28157892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28157892", "title": "History of company law in the United Kingdom", "text": "History of company law in the United Kingdom\n\nThe history of company law in the United Kingdom concerns the change and development in UK company law within the context of the history of companies, deriving from its predecessors in Roman and English law. Company law in its current form dates from the mid-nineteenth century, however other forms of business association developed long before.\n\nIn medieval times traders would typically act through private law constructs, such as partnerships. These arose at common law whenever people acted together with a view to profit. Early guilds and livery companies were also often involved in the regulation of trade among themselves.\n\n\nAs England sought to build a mercantile Empire, the government created corporations under a Royal Charter or an Act of Parliament with the grant of a monopoly over a specified territory. The best known example, established in 1600, was the British East India Company. Queen Elizabeth I granted it the exclusive right to trade with all countries to the east of the Cape of Good Hope. Corporations at this time would essentially act on the government's behalf, bringing in revenue from its exploits abroad. Subsequently, the Company became increasingly integrated with British military and colonial policy, just as most UK corporations were essentially dependent on the British navy's ability to control trade routes.\n\n\n\nA similar chartered company, the South Sea Company, was established in 1711 to trade in the Spanish South American colonies, but met with less success. The South Sea Company's monopoly rights were backed by the Treaty of Utrecht, signed in 1713 as a settlement following the War of Spanish Succession, which gave the United Kingdom an \"assiento\" to supply slaves and engage in limited trade in other goods in the region for a period of thirty years. The trading started slowly and was in any case limited in extent by the terms of the assiento, but it was hoped that it would lead to breaking into the traditionally closed Spanish markets in America. Investors in the UK, enticed by extravagant promises of profit from the company promoters, bought thousands of shares. By 1717, the South Sea Company was so wealthy that it assumed the public debt of the UK government. This accelerated the inflation of the share price further, as did the Bubble Act 1720, which (possibly with the motive of protecting the South Sea Company from competition) prohibited the establishment of any companies without a Royal Charter. The share price rose so rapidly that people began buying shares merely in order to sell them at a higher price, which in turn led to higher share prices. This was the first speculative bubble the country had seen, but by the end of 1720, the bubble had \"burst\", and the share price sank from £1000 to under £100. As bankruptcies and recriminations ricocheted through government and high society, the mood against corporations, and errant directors, was bitter.\n\nThe Bubble Act 1720's prohibition on establishing companies remained in force until 1824.\n\n\nEven in 1776, Adam Smith wrote in \"The\" \"Wealth of Nations\" that mass corporate activity could not match private entrepreneurship, because people in charge of others' money would not exercise as much care as they would with their own. As he put it,\n\n\nBy the 1820s the Industrial Revolution had gathered pace, pressing for legal change to facilitate business activity. Restrictions were gradually lifted on ordinary people incorporating until, under the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844, it was possible through a simple registration procedure to incorporate. The advantage of establishing a company as a separate legal person was mainly administrative, as a unified entity under which the rights and duties of all investors and managers could be channeled. The most important development, was the Limited Liability Act 1855, which allowed investors to limit their liability in the event of business failure to the amount they invested in the company. These two features – a simple registration procedure and limited liability – were subsequently codified in the first modern company law Act, the Joint Stock Companies Act 1856. A series of Companies Acts up to the present Companies Act 2006 have essentially retained the same fundamental features.\n\nOver the twentieth century, companies in the UK became the dominant organisational form of economic activity, which raised concerns about how accountable those who controlled companies were to those who invested in them. The first reforms following the Great Depression, in the Companies Act 1948, ensured that directors could be removed by shareholders with a simple majority vote.\n\nIn 1977, the government's Bullock Report proposed reform to allow employees to participate in selecting the board of directors, as was happening in across Europe, exemplified by the German Codetermination Act 1976. However the UK never implemented the reforms, and from 1979 the debate shifted.\n\nThrough the 1990s the focus in corporate governance turned toward internal control mechanisms, such as auditing, separation of the chief executive position from the chair, and remuneration committees to place some check on excessive executive pay. These rules applicable to listed companies, now found in the UK Corporate Governance Code, have been complemented principles based regulation of institutional investors activity in company affairs.\n\nThe UK's integration in the European Union meant a steadily growing body of EU Directives and case law to harmonise company law within the internal market.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1169201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1169201", "title": "History of the Constitution of Brazil", "text": "History of the Constitution of Brazil\n\nDuring its independent political history, Brazil has had seven constitutions. The most recent was ratified on October 5, 1988.\n\nPrior to its independence, on September 7, 1822, Brazil had no formal Constitution, since Portugal only adopted its first Constitution on September 23, 1822, 16 days after Brazilian proclaimed independence.\nIn 1823, the Emperor Pedro I started the political process of writing a Constitution.\n\nThe elaboration of the first Constitution of Brazil was quite difficult and the power struggle involved resulted in a long-lasting unrest that plagued the country for nearly two decades. Two major facts increased the troubles:\n\nThe first circumstance meant that despite strong support of the Crown Prince Pedro I by the Brazilian landowners (the so-called \"Brazilian Party\"), the opinions of the \"reinóis\" (name then given to people fresh from Portugal) should be considered. As each side had very distinct and different objectives none could prevail and a compromise was needed.\n\nThere were extra problems involved: the Constitutional Assembly had been elected to decide the applicability of Portuguese laws in Brazil, not to draft a new constitution. As a result, some of the Portuguese deputies refused to take part in it. On the other hand, some of the Brazilian deputies, the \"liberal\" ones, had been persecuted, some exiled others imprisoned. Thus the Constitutional Assembly did not hear an appreciable number of opinions and would end reflecting the objectives of the \"Brazilian Party\", to the detriment of the \"Portuguese Party\" and the liberals.\n\nAs the draft constitution progressed it became clear that the deputies were trying to establish a constitution that would:\nThe emperor did not want to be removed out all powers and serve as a mere decorative figurehead, but rather to protect the interests of the Portuguese businessmen (who were the main economic base of Brazil) and prevent any further of his power to the Parliament. \n\nIn a quite predictable move, and in the light of the wave of conservatism led by the Holy Alliance, the Emperor used his influence over the Brazilian Army to dissolve the Constitutional Assembly, in what became known as the Night of Agony, and imposed on the country a constitution that concentrated the executive power on the Emperor himself (eventually crowned \"Constitutional Emperor and Perpetual Defender of Brazil\").\n\nThe Constitution endowed the Assembly with both status and authority, and created legislative, moderating, executive and judicial branches as \"delegations of the nation\" with the separation of those powers envisaged as providing balances in support of the Constitution and the rights it enshrined.\n\nThe Constitution of 1824 was rather less parliamentary than the draft prepared by the Constituent Assembly. In fact, it was for all purposes a peculiar and unique regime: a \"presidential\" monarchy. That did not mean, by any means, that the Brazilian monarch had prerogatives resembling those of a tyrant or dictator. The individual guarantees that guarantee human liberty and dignity were inserted into the articles of the Charter and were respected. The Emperor would not act in areas reserved to the legislative branch and the judiciary, such as to create laws or to judge and sentence. \n\nBased on the French constitution of 1792 and the Spanish constitution of 1812, the Imperial constitution was considered one of the most liberal of the times, in front of many European liberal powers.\n\nThe new constitution, published on March 25, 1824 outlined the existence of four powers:\n\nThe Emperor controlled the Executive by nominating the members of the State Council, influenced the Legislative by being allowed to propose motions and having the power to dissolve the Chamber of Deputies (senators sat for life, being, however, individually chosen by the emperor among the three most voted candidates in a given province) and also influenced the Judiciary, by appointing (for life) the members of the Highest Court.\n\nThis constitution established the Brazilian Empire as a Unitary state (the provinces had little autonomy, if any). The Amendment (\"Ato Adicional\") of August 12, 1834, enacted in a period of liberal reform, authorized the provinces to create their own legislative chambers, which were empowered to legislate on financial matters, create taxes and their own corps of civil servants under a chief executive nominated by the central power; it was however revised by an \"interpretive\" act of May 1840, enacted in a period of conservative reaction, which allowed the central power to appoint judges and police officers in the provinces.\n\nOn July 20, 1847, a Decree (number 523) established the post of President of the Council of Ministers (not to be confused with the State Council, whose ten members sat for life and which in the late Empire functioned solely as an advising body to the Emperor) – actually a prime minister chosen by the emperor, who should choose the members of the cabinet, being supported by a parliamentary majority in the General Assembly. As no act of the Executive was valid without the signature of the minister (\"State Secretary\") responsible for the issue concerned, the decree turned the Brazilian Empire into a standard constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary system.\n\nThe franchise was very limited, being censitary and indirect: no male citizen who was not head of a household and/or had a net yearly income of less than a hundred milréis was allowed to vote in the primary elections that chose actual electors, empowered with the right to vote for the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. This conservative slant – together with widespread electoral frauds – determined that no Prime Minister chosen by the Emperor – who had the power to order the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies and new elections to it – ever failed to win a parliamentary majority in subsequent elections.\n\nThe Constitution of 1824, enacted in the name of the Holy Trinity, also instituted Catholicism as the state religion, allowing other religions to be practiced only in private: non-Catholic places of worship could not be fashioned to appear as religious buildings from the outside. It also excluded slaves from Brazilian citizenship, by extending it to all people born in the Brazilian territory, if freeborn or freed.\n\nOn November 15, 1889, the emperor Pedro II was deposed, Brazilian monarchy abolished and the 1824 Constitution was put out of effect. No provisional constitution was used while a definitive successor document was being written. The writing process began in 1889, by a group of jurists and politicians, and the text was later amended by a Constitutional Congress on February 24, 1891.\n\nIn its final form, the new Constitution meant to create a lay federal state to promote, above all, individual liberties, following the basic principles of the Constitution of the United States, albeit with the adoption of a slightly different (and somewhat more centralized) form of federalism.\n\nThe main traits of the constitution were:\n\nIn 1930, after severe political problems, President Washington Luís was overthrown by a \"coup d'état\". The 1891 Constitution was annulled and the Provisional President Getúlio Vargas ruled as a \"de facto\" personal dictator, but the state landed elites (who had controlled the Brazilian state ever since independence) struggled to prevent this from continuing. In 1932, in São Paulo, the Constitutionalist Revolution demanded a Constitution. As a result, a Constitutional Assembly was elected and the constitution was promulgated on July 16, 1934, four years after the \"coup d'état\" had overthrown the Old Republic. Vargas accepted this constitution in order to legitimate his power.\n\nThis constitution was the shortest-lived Constitution of Brazil, lasting only three years (until 1937).\n\nDespite its short life, this constitution was important because it was the first time a Brazilian constitution was written from scratch by directly elected deputies in multi-party elections. As a consequence of this, it incorporated a number of improvements to Brazilian political, social and economical life:\n\nOn the night of November 10, 1937, Vargas announced in a nationwide radio address that he was seizing emergency powers under the pretext of suppressing a Communist-backed coup (the so-called \"Plano Cohen\") On the same night, he promulgated a new constitution that effectively transformed his presidency into a legal dictatorship (the short interval suggesting that the self-coup had been planned well in advance). It was written by the minister of Justice, Francisco Campos, and proofread by Vargas and his minister of War (joint-commander of the Army and Air Force), Eurico Gaspar Dutra.\n\nThe new document was called the \"Polaca\", or Polish, Constitution because it was inspired by the Polish April Constitution of 1935. It was intended to consolidate the powers of the president, while substantially limiting the powers and autonomy of Congress and the judiciary. While clearly dictatorial, it was not intended to be completely totalitarian and repressive. It kept most social improvements of the previous constitution, and added more: The right to education, the right to culture preservation and guidelines for family rights, building on the Civil Code of 1917.\n\nOn the other side, however, it heavily concentrated executive power:\n\nWhen Vargas was forced to resign in 1945, a new constitution was written, once again by a directly elected Constitutional Congress.\n\nThis was the first Brazilian constitution to provide full political freedom (even the Brazilian Communist Party was made legal, though briefly) and the last to officially name the country \"Estados Unidos do Brazil\" (and the spelling of the country's name would change later that year). It was also the first with an additional \"Act of Transitory Measures\" (a set of laws that came into effect \"before\" the constitution itself and could not be changed).\nThe key points of this constitution were:\n\nThe last two would become the major problems of this constitution, as they were prone to produce and fuel both legitimacy crises (as the presidents were usually elected by less than the majority of the votes) and conspiracies (as the vice-president was usually from another party).\n\nAfter the military \"coup d'état\" of April 1, 1964 the controllers of the new regime kept the 1946 constitution and promised to restore democracy as soon as possible. However, they eventually did not and were faced with a dilemma, as every major measure they took was strictly against that current constitution, including the coup itself.\n\nThe so-called Institutional Acts sequentially issued by the military presidents were, in practice, placed higher than the Constitution and could amend it. Even under these circumstances, the first military president, Humberto de Alencar Castelo Branco, was committed to restoring civilian rule in 1966. However, a large number of military and civilian extremists felt the military had to stay in power for some years. They also wanted to pass more \"proper\" laws to fight \"subversive individuals\" (anyone that opposed the regime).\n\nBy 1965, however, the situation reached an unbearable point when opposition candidates won the governorship of Minas Gerais and Guanabara. Castelo Branco refused to annul the results. A coup was only averted when Castelo Branco agreed to support the military's reform program. By this time, the military had decided to drop all pretense of democracy. It also felt the 1946 constitution was \"obsolete\" as the \"new institutions\" were not foreseen in it.\n\nA new constitution was written by a team of lawyers commissioned by Castelo Branco and amended (under the instructions of Castelo Branco himself) by the minister of Justice, Carlos Medeiros Silva and voted as whole by the Brazilian Parliament (already purged of most opponents of the status quo).\n\nThe main features of the new Constitution were:\n\nIn 1969, this already severely authoritarian document was widely amended by a provisional military junta and made even more repressive.\nThe 1969 Amendment is sometimes regarded as a seventh Constitution, because it in fact rewrote the whole constitutional text.\nThe new constitutional text brought some extra tools for the regime:\n\nFrom 1979 onward, however, the constitution was gradually purged of its authoritarian character. This process accelerated with the return of civilian rule in 1985, culminating in the adoption of a new constitution in 1988.\n\nThe seventh and current Brazilian Constitution was promulgated on October 5, 1988 after a two-year process in which it was written from scratch by a Constitutional Congress elected in 1986.\n\nIt appears as a reaction to the period of military dictatorship, seeking to guarantee all manner of rights and restricting the state's ability to limit freedom, to punish offenses and to regulate individual life. On the other hand, it did not provide clear rules for state reform and kept the economic regulation of the country intact.\n\nAmong the new constitutional guarantees are the errand of injunction and the \"habeas data\" (one's right to have access to any data about him kept by the Government). It also anticipated the existence of a Consumers' Defence Code (which was brought out in 1990), of Children's and Youth Code (1990) and of a new Civil Code (2002).\n\nIt was the first constitution to demand severe punishment for breaches of civil liberties and rights. Consequently, Brazil later approved a law making the propagation of prejudice against any minority or ethnic group an unbailable crime. This law provided legal redress against those who spread hate speech (like Neo-Nazis) or those who do not treat all citizens equally. This second aspect helped disabled people to have a reserved percentage of jobs in the public service (and soon in all large companies), and black people to seek reparation for prejudice in the courts.\n\nBreaking with the authoritarian logic of the Constitution of 1967, it made unbailable crimes those of torture and of actions directed against the democratic state and the constitutional order, thus creating constitutional devices to block \"coups d'état\" of any kind.\nWilling to create a truly democratic State, the Constitution has established many forms of direct popular participation besides regular voting, such as plebiscite, referendum and the possibility of ordinary citizens proposing new laws. Examples of these democratic mechanisms were the 1993 plebiscite concerning the form of government, where the Presidential system was confirmed, and the 2005 referendum concerning the prohibition of the sale of firearms and ammunition.\n\nThe mention of God in the preamble of the Constitution (and later on the Brazilian currency) was opposed by most leftists as incompatible with freedom of religion because it does not recognize the rights of polytheists (like the Amerindians) or atheists, but it has not been removed so far. The only State Constitution that does not refer to God is the one of Acre. The Supreme Federal Court has ruled that this omission of the protection of God was not unconstitutional since the preamble of the constitution is simply an indication of principles that serves as an introduction to the constitutional text and reflects the ideological conceptions of the legislator, falling within the scope of political ideology and not of the Law. Therefore, the preamble which is not actually a part of the supreme law, has no judicial validity whatsoever and cannot impose obligations or create rights.\n\nDespite its advances concerning individual rights and freedoms and also in government control, the Constitutional text brought dispositions that resulted in severe difficulties concerning governmental efficiency. In the following years, especially from 1995 onwards, this it had to be amended many times to get rid of impractical, contradictory or unclear provisions (but also to accommodate the economic reforms conducted by the government, for which such amendments have been sometimes criticized). As of December 2015, this Constitution has been amended 90 times.\n\n"}
{"id": "54197327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54197327", "title": "House Bill 142 (Session 2017 of the North Carolina General Assembly)", "text": "House Bill 142 (Session 2017 of the North Carolina General Assembly)\n\nHouse Bill 142 (HB 142) is a 2017 law that was enacted in the state of North Carolina that repealed House Bill 2. The bill states that all \"state agencies, boards, offices, departments, institutions, branches of government, including The University of North Carolina and the North Carolina Community College System, and political subdivisions of the State, are preempted from regulation of access to multiple occupancy restrooms, showers, or changing facilities, except in accordance with an act of the General Assembly.\" It also enacted that no local government in this state may enact or amend an ordinance regulating private employment practices or regulating public accommodations until December 1, 2020.\n\nOn March 30, 2017, the North Carolina Senate passed HB 142, with 32 ayes, 16 noes, and 2 excused absents. That same day, the North Carolina House of Representatives passed HB 142, with 70 ayes, 48 noes, and 2 excused absents, which Governor Roy Cooper signed into law that very day, becoming Ch. SL 2017-4.\n\nOn July 21, 2017, the Lambda Legal and the ACLU expanded \"Carcaño v. Cooper\" to include more legal challenges and plaintiffs to House Bill 142 (HB 142). On October 18, 2017, the Lambda Legal and the ACLU announced a proposed legal settlement with the state of North Carolina.\n\nOn April 14, 2017, the United States Department of Justice issued a two-sentence court filing that said it had dropped its lawsuit against the state of North Carolina over House Bill 2, which was filed in 2016 by the Obama administration, because the North Carolina legislature had replaced House Bill 2 with House Bill 142.\n\n"}
{"id": "6303315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6303315", "title": "Instabus", "text": "Instabus\n\nInstabus, is a decentralized open system to manage and control electrical devices within a facility. It is developed by Berker, Gira, Jung, Merten and Siemens AG. There are about 200 companies of electrical supplies using this communication protocol. The EIB (European Installation Bus) allows all electrical components to be interconnected through an electrical bus. Every component is able to send commands to other components, no matter where they are. A typical EIB network is made of electrical components such as switches, pulsers, electric motors, electrovalves, contactors, and sensors.\n\nThis electrical bus is made of a 2x2x0,8mm twisted pair cable, that connects all devices within the network. The theoretical maximum number of components is 57375.\n\nEIB system was developed to increase power savings, security, comfort and flexibility.\n\nAlthough the EIB is a decentralized system and doesn't need any electric switchboard or control console, it's possible to implement a PC based monitoring system to check device status and to send manual or pre-programmed commands to one or more components of the network.\n\nThe Konnex KNX (standard) was developed as a result of the convergence between EIB, BCi and EHSA.\n\n"}
{"id": "8932365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8932365", "title": "Law in Africa", "text": "Law in Africa\n\nThe law in Africa is a diverse mix of common law, customary law, civil law and religious law systems. Africa is the second largest continent and has 56 countries contained in it.\n\nModern Africa has been shaped primarily through different countries' inheritance of laws which existed in Europe through the nineteenth century. For instance, the primary sources of South Africa law were Roman-Dutch and English Common law, imports of Dutch settlements and British colonialism. Thus it is sometimes termed Anglo-Dutch law. Various lawmaking bodies have existed within South Africa over time. Yet in fact, some of the oldest legal systems began first in Africa. For instance, Ancient Egyptian law used a civil code, based on the concept of Ma'at. Tradition, rhetorical speech, social equality and impartiality were key principles. Judges kept records, which was used as precedent, although the systems developed slowly.\n\nA polycentric legal system, called \"Xeer\" developed exclusively in the Horn of Africa more than a millennium ago and is still widely used by the Somali people. Under this system, elders serve as judges and help mediate cases using precedents. Xeer is a good example of how customary law can work in lieu of civil law, and is a good approximation of what is thought of as natural law. Several scholars have noted that even though Xeer may be centuries old, it has the potential to serve as the legal system of a modern, well functioning economy.\nThe Xeer also shows how influential a system of laws can be with regard to the development of a culture. According to one report, the Somali nation did not begin with the common use of the Somali language by the Somali clans, but rather with the collective observance of Xeer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18408462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18408462", "title": "Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009", "text": "Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009\n\nThe Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 (, ) is a federal statute in the United States that was the first bill signed into law by US President Barack Obama on January 29, 2009. The Act amends the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and states that the 180-day statute of limitations for filing an equal-pay lawsuit regarding pay discrimination resets with each new paycheck affected by that discriminatory action. The law directly addressed \"Ledbetter v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.\", , a U.S. Supreme Court decision that the statute of limitations for presenting an equal-pay lawsuit begins on the date that the employer makes the initial discriminatory wage decision, not at the date of the most recent paycheck.\n\nAn earlier bill seeking to supersede the \"Ledbetter\" decision, also called the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, was first introduced in the 110th United States Congress but was not successfully enacted at that time, as it was passed by the House but failed in the Senate.\n\nDuring the campaign for the 2008 elections, the Democrats criticized Republicans for defeating the 2007 version of the bill, citing Republican presidential candidate John McCain's opposition to the bill and candidate Barack Obama's support.\n\nThe antecedents of the case were posed when Lilly Ledbetter, a production supervisor at a Goodyear tire plant in Alabama, filed an equal-pay lawsuit regarding pay discrimination under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, six months before her early retirement in 1998. The courts gave opposite verdicts, first supporting the complaint and later opposing; in conclusion the complaint brought the case to the attention of the Supreme Court. The latter ruled in 2007 by a 5-4 majority vote that Ledbetter's complaint was time-barred because the discriminatory decisions relating to pay had been made more than 180 days prior to the date she filed her charge, as explained by Justice Samuel Alito. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg's dissenting opinion proposed an interpretation according to which the law runs from the date of any paycheck that contains an amount affected by a prior discriminatory pay decision.\n\nThe \"Ledbetter\" decision was cited by federal judges in 300 cases before the LLFPA was passed. These cases involved not only Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, but also the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Fair Housing Act, Patsy T. Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act and Eighth Amendment to the Constitution.\n\nAmong the first to criticize the Court's decision that Ledbetter's complaint was time-barred was Marcia Greenberger, president of the National Women's Law Center, that saw in the ruling a \"setback for women and a setback for civil rights\" and called Ginsburg's opinion a \"clarion call to the American people that this slim majority of the court is headed in the wrong direction.\" Debra L. Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women & Families, also condemned the decision, saying, \"If employers can keep the discrimination hidden for a period of time, they can continue to discriminate without being held accountable.\" On the other side, the majority's findings were applauded by the US Chamber of Commerce, that called it a \"fair decision\" that \"eliminates a potential wind-fall against employers by employees trying to dredge up stale pay claims.\"\n\nThe House Democrats were fast to react, coming out on June 12 against the Supreme Court. Claiming lead from Justice Ruth Ginsburg's dissenting opinion, which invited the Congress to take action by amending the law, the Democrats announced their intention to intervene: House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and Education and Labor Committee Chairman George Miller said that a bill was to be passed to avoid future court rulings in line with \"Ledbetter\", clearly putting that \"a key provision of the legislation will make it clear that discrimination occurs not just when the decision to discriminate is made, but also when someone becomes subject to that discriminatory decision, and when they are affected by that discriminatory decision, including each time they are issued a discriminatory paycheck\", as said by Rep. Miller.\n\nRepublicans immediately opposed the bill as drafted, with Education and Labor Committee ranking member Howard McKeon raising the issue that business executives would be held liable for actions taken by managers who weren't leading the company anymore: \"At the end of the day, such a loophole conceivably could allow a retiring employee to seek damages against a company now led by executives who had nothing to do with the initial act of discrimination\".\n\nThe American Bar Association passed a resolution supporting the new bill. Neal Mollen, who represented the United States Chamber of Commerce in the Ledbetter case, argued that extending the term limit would put a strain on the chances of an adequate defense for the employers, as to defend themselves one \"has to rely on documents and the memory of individuals, and neither of those is permanent. If a disappointed employee can wait for many years before raising a claim of discrimination ... he or she can wait out the employer, that is ensure that the employer effectively unable to offer any meaningful defense to the claim\".\n\nOrganizations that supported the bill include the:\nAmerican Civil Liberties Union, AFL-CIO, American Federation of Teachers, National Education Association, American Rights at Work, American Library Association, People For the American Way, Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, National Employment Lawyers Association, Hadassah, National Women's Law Center, National Network to End Domestic Violence, Center for Inquiry - Washington DC\nAmerican Association of University Women, Alliance for Justice, Legal Momentum, Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, National Partnership for Women and Families, Coalition of Labor Union Women, Moms Rising, National Organization for Women, American Association of Retired Persons, Women's Voices, Women Vote Action Fund, 21st Century Democrats, 9to5, National Association of Working Women, Service Employees International Union, Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism, and Women Employed.\n\nOrganizations that opposed the bill include the:\nU.S. Chamber of Commerce, Eagle Forum, Society for Human Resource Management, National Association of Manufacturers, American Bakers Association, College and University Professional Association for Human Resources, Associated Builders and Contractors, and American Hotel & Lodging Association.\n\nThe bill ( and ) was defeated in April 2008 by Republicans in the Senate who cited the possibility of frivolous lawsuits in their opposition of the bill and criticized Democrats for refusing to allow compromises.\n\nThe bill was re-introduced in the 111th Congress (as and ) in January 2009. It passed in the House of Representatives with 250 votes in support and 177 against. The vote was split along party lines, with three Republicans voting in favor (Ed Whitfield of Kentucky, and Leonard Lance and Chris Smith both of New Jersey) and five Democrats voting against (Travis Childers of Mississippi, Dan Boren of Oklahoma, Allen Boyd of Florida, Parker Griffith of Alabama, and Bobby Bright of Alabama).\nThe Senate voted 72 to 23 to invoke cloture on S. 181 on January 15, 2009. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act passed the Senate, 61-36, on January 22, 2009. Those in favor included every Democratic senator (except Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, who was absent from the vote because of health issues), two independents who caucused with Democrats, and five Republican senators. \nPresident Obama actively supported the bill. The official White House blog said:\n\nPresident Obama has long championed this bill and Lilly Ledbetter's cause, and by signing it into law, he will ensure that women like Ms. Ledbetter and other victims of pay discrimination can effectively challenge unequal pay.\n\nHouse Majority Leader Steny Hoyer announced that the House would vote on S.181 (the bill passed by the Senate) during the week of January 26, getting the bill to President Obama's desk sooner rather than later. On January 27, the House passed S.181 by a 250-177 margin.\n\nOn January 29, 2009, Obama signed the bill into law. It was the first act he signed as president, and it fulfilled his campaign pledge to nullify \"Ledbetter v. Goodyear\". However, by signing it only two days after it was passed by the House, he incurred criticism by newspapers, such as the \"St. Petersburg Times\" which mentioned his campaign promise to give the public five days of notice to comment on legislation before he signed it. The White House through a spokesman answered that they would be \"implementing this policy in full soon\", and that currently they were \"working through implementation procedures and some initial issues with the congressional calendar\".\n\nWhile the law sought to address the rights of women in the workplace, some conservative editorialists said the law was \"[nothing] more than a trial-lawyer payout.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57750227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57750227", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Jamaica)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Jamaica)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice (headed by the Minister of Justice) was established in 2001 after having severed ties with the Ministry of National Security and Justice. As a result, prior to the change in 2001, there are past individuals who were referred to as the Minister of National Security and Justice. Additionally, certain Ministers of Justice has also served simultaneously as the Attorney General of Jamaica.The Ministry of Justice is responsible for tasks such as administering legislation, delivering justice services, and providing policy support and analyses of law-related issues.\"\n\n\nSee Attorney General of Jamaica for a listing of the individuals who served pre-1962.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27151295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27151295", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Lithuania)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Lithuania)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania () was established in 1918. Its departments include European Law, prisons, state-guaranteed legal aid services in several major Lithuania cities, a patent bureau, consumer rights protection, the Law Institute, the Metrology Inspectorate, state enterprise and legal information centers, and forensic science.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57867734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57867734", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Niger)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Niger)\n\nEstablished in 1960, the Ministry of Justice of Niger provides litigants and citizens with the means of the judicial system (magistrates, clerks, courts and paralegals) for access to justice.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "373399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373399", "title": "National Diet Library", "text": "National Diet Library\n\nThe is the national library of Japan and among the largest libraries in the world. It was established in 1948 for the purpose of assisting members of the in researching matters of public policy. The library is similar in purpose and scope to the United States Library of Congress.\n\nThe National Diet Library (NDL) consists of two main facilities in Tokyo and Kyoto, and several other branch libraries throughout Japan.\n\nThe National Diet Library is the successor of three separate libraries: the library of the House of Peers, the library of the House of Representatives, both of which were established at the creation of Japan's Imperial Diet in 1890; and the Imperial Library, which had been established in 1872 under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education.\n\nThe Diet's power in prewar Japan was limited, and its need for information was \"correspondingly small.\" The original Diet libraries \"never developed either the collections or the services which might have made them vital adjuncts of genuinely responsible legislative activity.\" Until Japan's defeat, moreover, the executive had controlled all political documents, depriving the people and the Diet of access to vital information. The U.S. occupation forces under General Douglas MacArthur deemed reform of the Diet library system to be an important part of the democratization of Japan after its defeat in World War II.\n\nIn 1946, each house of the Diet formed its own National Diet Library Standing Committee. Hani Gorō, a Marxist historian who had been imprisoned during the war for thought crimes and had been elected to the House of Councillors (the successor to the abolished House of Peers) after the war, spearheaded the reform efforts. Hani envisioned the new body as \"both a 'citadel of popular sovereignty,\" and the means of realizing a \"peaceful revolution.'\" The Occupation officers responsible for overseeing library reforms reported that, although the Occupation was a catalyst for change, local initiative pre-existed the Occupation, and the successful reforms were due to dedicated Japanese like Hani.\n\nThe National Diet Library opened in June 1948 in the present-day State Guest-House (former Akasaka Detached Palace) with an initial collection of 100,000 volumes. The first Librarian of the Diet Library was the politician Tokujirō Kanamori. The philosopher Masakazu Nakai served as the first Vice Librarian. In 1949, the NDL merged with the National Library (previously called the Imperial Library) and became the only national library in Japan. At this time the collection gained an additional million volumes previously housed in the former National Library in Ueno.\n\nIn 1961, the NDL opened at its present location in Nagatachō, adjacent to the National Diet. In 1986, the NDL's Annex was completed to accommodate a combined total of 12 million books and periodicals. The Kansai-kan (the Kansai Library), which opened in October 2002 in the Kansai Science City (Seika Town, Sōraku County, Kyoto Prefecture), has a collection of 6 million items. In May 2002, the NDL opened a new branch, the International Library of Children's Literature, in the former building of the Imperial Library in Ueno. This branch contains some 400,000 items of children's literature from around the world.\n\nThough the NDL's original mandate was to be a research library for the National Diet, the general public is the largest consumer of the library's services. In the fiscal year ending March 2004, for example, the library reported more than 250,000 reference inquiries; in contrast, it recorded only 32,000 requests for research from the National Diet.\n\nAs Japan's national library, the NDL collects copies of all publications published in Japan. Moreover, because the NDL serves as a research library for Diet members, their staffs, and the general public, it maintains an extensive collection of materials published in foreign languages on a wide range of topics.\n\nThe NDL also has eight major specialized collections: Modern Political and Constitutional History; Materials Concerning the Postwar Occupation of Japan; Laws and Preliminary Records; Science and Technology; Maps; Music; Foreign Books About Japan; and Rare Books.\n\nThe Modern Political and Constitutional History Collection comprises some 300,000 items related to Japan's political and legal modernization in the 19th century, including the original document archives of important Japanese statesmen from the latter half of the 19th century and the early 20th century like Itō Hirobumi, Iwakura Tomomi, Sanjō Sanetomi, Mutsu Munemitsu, Terauchi Masatake, and other influential figures from the Meiji (1868–1912) and Taishō (1912–1926) periods.\n\nThe NDL has an extensive microform collection of some 30 million pages of documents relating to the Occupation of Japan after World War II. This collection include the documents prepared by General Headquarters (GHQ) and the Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers (SCAP), the Far Eastern Commission (FEC), and the United States Strategic Bombing Survey Team. (The originals of these documents are in the possession of the United States National Archives.)\n\nThe Laws and Preliminary Records Collection consists of some 170,000 Japanese and 200,000 foreign-language documents concerning proceedings of the National Diet and the legislatures of some 70 foreign countries, and the official gazettes, statutes, judicial opinions, and international treaties pertaining to some 150 foreign countries.\n\nThe NDL maintains a collection of some 530,000 books and booklets and 2 million microform titles relating to the sciences. These materials include, among other things, foreign doctoral dissertations in the sciences, the proceedings and reports of academic societies, catalogues of technical standards, etc.\n\nThe NDL has a collection of approximately 440,000 maps of Japan and other countries, including the topographical, geological, and hydrological maps and charts dating back to the early Meiji period (1868–1912) and topographical maps of foreign countries.\n\nThe NDL collects all phonographic recordings made in Japan, and presently holds a collection comprising 300,000 vinyl records and 200,000 compact disks.\n\nFollowing the tradition established by the Imperial Library, the NDL collects foreign-language materials about Japan, including rare and ancient documents, such as reports of European missionaries visiting Japan in the 16th century.\n\nThe NDL houses the former Imperial Library's collection of Japanese language materials from the Edo period (1603–1867) and earlier periods. The major catalogues in this collection include: (1) some 6,000 documents relating to the Tokugawa shogunate (1603–1867), such as records of town magistrates, the shogunal Supreme Court, and the Commissioners of Shrines and Temples, as well as documents concerning the succession of \"shōguns\"; (2) the Itō Bunko and Shirai Bunko, consisting of 8,000 handwritten and woodblock printed books dating from the Edo and Meiji periods and concerning Japanese medicine; and (3) the Shinjo Bunko, consisting of 11,000 examples of pre-modern writings on astronomy and calendars, in addition to ancient Chinese works on the Qing dynasty, genealogy, and local history.\n\nKansai-kan (Kansai Library), which opened in Kyoto Prefecture in 2002, is the second facility of the NDL.\n\nThe NDL has transferred the following collections to the Kansai-kan: most western periodicals; books and other materials in non-Japanese Asian languages; certain scientific and technological materials (technical reports, papers of foreign academic societies, catalogs of Japanese and foreign technical standards, foreign doctoral dissertations, and conference proceedings in Western languages); scientific research reports compiled under grants from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology; Japanese doctoral dissertations; and books on tape.\n\nThe National Diet Library has in recent years compiled a detailed website in both Japanese and English. Its online databases consist of the National Diet Library Online Public Access Catalog (NDL-OPAC), National Diet Library Digital Collections and the Minutes of the Imperial Diet and National Diet.\n\nThe NDL provides an Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC), by which users can search the NDL's entire collection from anywhere in the world in either English or Japanese. Using OPAC to identify sources and catalog numbers, overseas users may obtain certain materials from the NDL through interlibrary loan. In addition, the NDL provides a fee-based reproduction service for scholars residing overseas. As of June 2017 NDL-OPAC is planned to end at the end of December 2017 and new online services will be launched.\n\nNDL Digital Collections provices various online materials such as rare books, audio-visual materials and the materials whose copyrights has expired. The contents consisting of Digital Library from the Meiji Era and Rare Books Image Database (to be mentioned later) are now availablable on NDL Digital Collections. NDL Digitalized Contents was renamed to be NDL Digital Collections in 2014.\n\nOne of the most important features of the NDL's website is the . The Digital Library is the digital descendant of the Maruzen Meiji Microfilm, the product of an ambitious project to microfilm the NDL's entire collection of Meiji era books, a collection of some 60,000 volumes. The digital library contains actual images of these works, which are divided into ten main categories based on Nippon Decimal Classification (NDC) : ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; and . The images are not coded, so text searches are not possible; however, Japanese-language searches for the title, author, publisher, subject, and table of contents of the works in the database are possible. Meiji period periodicals are not included in this collection. Digital Library from the Meiji Era was merged into NDL Digital Collections in 2015.\n\nThe NDL's website also contains the a collection of digital images from 37,000 illustrated books published before the Edo Period. Japanese-language searches by title, author, and call-number are possible in this database. Rare Books Image Database was integrated into NDL Digitalized Contents (now NDL Digital Collections) in 2012.\n\nThe NDL provides a database of the minutes of both the Imperial Diet and the National Diet, the only one of the NDL's online database that is full-text searchable. All minutes from the National Diet's inception in May 1947 through the present are searchable online. At present, only minutes from the last two (91st and 92nd) sessions of the Imperial Diet (November 1946 through May 1947) are available.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4769771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4769771", "title": "Patriot Act, Title III, Subtitle A", "text": "Patriot Act, Title III, Subtitle A\n\nThe USA PATRIOT Act was passed by the United States Congress in 2001 as a response to the September 11, 2001 attacks. It has ten titles, with the third title (\"Title III: International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001\") written to prevent, detect, and prosecute international money laundering and the financing of terrorism.\n\nTitle III is itself divided into three subtitles. The first subtitle, entitled Subtitle A: International Counter Money Laundering and Related Measures, is designed to put measures into place that counter international money laundering. It does this by requiring that financial institutions take several new special measures against money laundering — identification is dealt with particularly; by restricting or prohibiting the use of certain types of bank accounts; through adding further legislation that regulates a financial institution's dealing with foreign concerns; by adding new penalties for non-compliance of the law; and through regulations that are designed to facilitate and encourage reporting and communication between financial institutions and the U.S. government.\n\nA new section was added to Title 31, subchapter IV, chapter 53, subchapter II (\"Records and reports on monetary instruments transactions\") of the U.S. Code. The section was 5318A, entitled \"Special measures for jurisdictions, financial institutions, or international transactions of primary money laundering concern\". It specifies that financial institutions or financial agencies may be required to take special measures when so directed by the United States Secretary of the Treasury. Any such order by the United States Treasury, with the exception of orders that require additional record keeping or reporting for any transaction over an amount greater than the Secretary describes, is issued with a notice of rule making regarding the special measure. Orders may not remain in effect for more than 120 days, though any ruling may be extended by the Treasury.\n\nWhen the Secretary of Treasury orders special measures, that person must first consult with the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, any other appropriate Federal banking agency (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), the Secretary of State, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the National Credit Union Administration Board and any other relevant parties the Secretary of Treasury decides to call on. The special measures must take into account whether similar actions were taken by other nations and multilateral groups; whether the measure will cause any competitive disadvantage for U.S. financial organizations; how the timing or impact of the decision will affect legitimate business activities; and what effect the action would have on U.S. national security and foreign policy.\n\nThe special measures must be undertaken for all transactions that are made outside the U.S. in areas where money-laundering has been identified as a concern. The measures involve:\n\nThe section also details what is considered a \"primary money-laundering concern\". The Secretary of Treasury ultimately makes the decision on such areas in consultation with Secretary of State and the Attorney General. Several jurisdictional factors must be taken into account, including:\nThe Secretary of Treasury also considers whether financial institutions facilitate or promote money laundering, balanced against the extent to which they perform and promote legitimate business activities. He or she must also decide whether the financial institutions is undertaking any of the special measures specified above when considering whether the jurisdiction, financial institutions, types of accounts, or transactions are or are not primarily a money laundering concern.\n\nExtra due diligence requirements were added to . Each financial institution that has a correspondent bank account held and managed on behalf of a non-U.S. person must enable (or in some cases enhance) their due diligence policies, procedures and controls to detect and report instances of money laundering. The due diligence requirements focus on identifying the direct and indirect (beneficial) owners of the accounts.\n\nFinancial institutions must now undertake steps to identify the owners of any non-U.S. bank that is not publicly listed, along with the interests of each of the owners in the bank. It is expected that additional scrutiny will be applied by the U.S. institution to such banks to make sure they are not engaging in money laundering. Reasonable efforts must be undertaken to determine whether the non-U.S. bank provides correspondent bank accounts to other foreign banks and, if it is discovered they do, the U.S. financial institution is expected to try to identify the foreign banks the non-U.S. bank deals with.\n\nSimilarly, U.S. financial institutions must also identify the nominal and beneficial owners of any private bank account opened and maintained in the U.S. by non-U.S. citizens. The institution must undertake enhanced scrutiny of the account if it is owned by, or is being maintained on behalf of, any senior political figure where there is reasonable suspicion of corruption. A \"private bank account\" is defined as any account that has over $US1 million deposited by one or more people who have a direct or beneficial ownership of the account. Further, the account must be administered in whole or in part by an employee, officer or agent of a financial institution, and who acts as a liaison between the institution and the owners of the account.\n\n was amended to prohibit U.S. financial institutions from establishing, maintaining, administering, or managing a correspondent account in the U.S. for, or on behalf of, a foreign bank that does not have a physical presence in any country (otherwise known as a shell bank). U.S. financial institutions must also take steps to prevent the indirect servicing of a foreign shell bank by allowing a correspondent account to be established and maintained by another foreign bank who acts on behalf of that foreign shell bank. However, exceptions are made if the shell bank is an affiliate (under the control) of a bank that has a physical presence in the U.S. or if the foreign shell bank is subject to supervision by a banking authority in the non-U.S. country regulating the affiliated depository institution, credit union, or foreign bank.\n\nIn order to foster improved communication between financial institutions, the regulators of the financial institutions and law enforcement authorities the U.S. Treasury secretary was directed to create regulations within 120 days after the enactment of the Patriot Act that set out how information was to be shared. The aim of the act was more to encourage law enforcement authorities and financial regulation agencies to share the information they had on foreign individuals or organisations engaged in terrorism. Due to the complex nature of the task on February 26, 2002 the U.S. Treasury initially put together a proposed rule to amend the Code of Federal Regulations, and then on March 14, 2002 they released 31 CFR 103.100 which was entitled \"Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity\".\n\nThe regulation allows FinCEN to solicit, on behalf of a Federal law enforcement agency, information from a financial institution or group of financial institutions. In order to gain such information, a law enforcement agency must provide a certificate which shows who is the target of the information request — the regulation states that enough information must be provided to the institution to allow them to distinguish between common or similar names — and a contact person from the agency who knows about the request. The financial institution must then expeditiously search records for information that satisfies the request, though at any time the institution can contact the law enforcement agency to clarify the scope or terms of the request. The information that an agency must disclose is:\nAfter identifying the account asked for by FinCEN, the financial institution must provide a report back to FinCEN with:\n\nThe regulation specifically prohibits the financial institution from using information provided by FinCEN to do anything other than report information back to FinCEN, make a determination whether to do business with the named suspect or suspects, or to help them comply with an order given under the regulation. Furthermore, the financial institution may not disclose that FinCEN made a request for or obtained information to anyone other than FinCEN or to the Federal agency who was using FinCEN to gather information about the suspects. Under the regulation, financial institutions are expected to maintain appropriate security to keep such information confidential in order to satisfy the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.\n\nThe section also allows financial institutions to share information with other financial institutions when so allowed by the Secretary of Treasury, and they are now legally immune from prosecution if they gather or share information relating to terrorism or financial money-laundering in order to identify and report such activities. The section also gives immunity against breaches of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act to any organisation who undertakes actions to comply with this section.\n\nFinally, the section directs the Secretary of Treasury to produce a report semiannually to the financial services industry \"containing a detailed analysis identifying patterns of suspicious activity and other investigative insights derived from suspicious activity reports and investigations conducted by Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies\". This report must be distributed to every financial institution in the United States.\n\nSection 1956(c)(7) of title 18 of the U.S. Code was amended to further include specific acts of unlawful activity in relation to money laundering. Unlawful acts include:\n\nThis section allows the incorrect seizure of the assets of those suspected to be international terrorist to be contested. The contesting party can file a claim under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and can either assert as an affirmative defense that their property was seized improperly or plead an innocent owner defense. The act also states that:\n\nHowever, this clause does not deny a property owner of their right to contest the confiscation of assets that are suspected to be owned by international terrorists under the Fourth Amendment of the United States Constitution or under the Administrative Procedures Act. It also does not limit the remedies available to property owners defined under the civil forfeiture laws defined in the U.S. Code.\n\nThe section also made a technical amendment to the General Rules for Civil Forfeiture Proceedings by amending the definition of the term \"civil forfeiture statute\" to exclude the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA).\n\nSection 1956 of title 18 was amended in several ways. U.S. district courts are now given jurisdiction over any foreign person or financial institution where action is undertaken to prosecute them under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedures or under the laws of the country in which the foreigner is found. Offenses where the District court can have jurisdiction are in cases where that person commits an offense that involves money laundering under ; in cases where that person converts property that a U.S. court has seized; or where the foreigner is a financial institution that maintains a bank account at a U.S. financial institution.\n\nThe amendment gives the court the power to freeze bank accounts and property so they can satisfy a judgement under 18 USC § 1956. The courts may appoint a Federal Receiver to seize or control all assets of a defendant in order to satisfy a judgement of the court. The judgement may be a civil judgement about money laundering; the civil or criminal forfeiture of assets; or made against those who act as a fence. The Federal Receiver is appointed by the court after an application is made by a Federal prosecutor or Federal or State regulator, and they must be an officer of the court. The Federal Receiver is governed by and is able to gain the same information about a defendants assets from FinCen, the Department of Treasury or a foreign government (where a treaty or other agreement is in place with the U.S. government) as a Federal prosecutor.\n\nThis section expanded the definition of a financial institution to be any foreign bank, as defined in section 1 of the International Banking Act of 1978.\n\nSection 319 deals with the forfeiture of funds in Interbank accounts and the ability of Federal banking agencies to subpoena bank records or summons banking staff in order to gain access to bank records. It also gave U.S. courts the authority to order convicted criminal to return property located abroad. Paragraph (c) allowed a (since expired) grace period of 60 days from the enactment of the Act with which financial institutions were required to comply with the provisions of .\n\nAny deposits into foreign banks are considered to be deposited into any Interbank account the foreign bank may have in the U.S., and thus any restraining order, seizure warrant or arrest warrant may be made against the funds in the Interbank account held at a U.S. financial institution, up to the amount deposited in the account at the foreign bank. Provisions were made to allow the Attorney General to suspend or stop such a forfeiture if the Attorney General determines that a conflict of law exists between the laws of the foreign country in which the foreign bank resides in and with the laws of the U.S.. The Attorney General must also decide whether halting such a forfeiture would be in the interest of justice and that it would not harm the national interests of the U.S. The funds that are forfeited in the Interbank account can be contested by the foreign bank under the general rules of civil forfeiture proceedings. The U.S. government does not need to show that the funds being forfeited are directly traceable to the funds deposited at the foreign bank and the government is also not required to apply , which deals with the civil forfeiture of fungible property.\n\nSection 319 requires a financial institution to respond to a request for information from a Federal banking agency within 120 hours of the receipt of the request. Federal banking agencies can request information relating to any money-laundering activities — financial institutions must provide documentation for any account opened, maintained, administered or managed by the institution in the U.S. A summons or subpoena may be issued to any representative of a foreign bank that as a corresponding account in the U.S. — they may be required to include records (even those maintained outside the U.S.) that relate to the deposit of funds into the foreign bank. The summons may be issued to a bank with a representative in the U.S. or in foreign countries where the U.S. has a mutual legal assistance treat, a multilateral agreement or where the U.S. can expect that they will respond to a request for international law enforcement assistance. Foreign banks who maintain corresponding accounts must maintain records in the U.S. that will identify the owners' real names and addresses. The banks must be able to provide this information within 7 days of receipt of the request. It is also a requirement that when so ordered by the Attorney General or the Secretary of Treasury (they must consult each other first) the financial institution must terminate any corresponding accounts within 10 days. Corresponding accounts can be ordered to be closed if the foreign bank fails to comply with a summons or subpoena (see above), or has failed to legally contest the summons in the U.S. A financial institution is further protected from liability if they terminate a corresponding relationship in accordance with the section, and in fact the financial institution faces penalties of $US10,000 for each day the account remains open after the 10-day limit has expired.\n\nThe U.S. Code was amended by section 319 to allow a court to order a convicted criminal to return property that is located abroad. If that property cannot be located, has been transferred or sole, is placed beyond the jurisdiction of the court, is substantially reduced in value, or has been comingled with other property in such a way that it cannot be divided without difficulty then the court may order that property be forfeited in substitution of the property that must be returned. The court can also order that any property beyond the jurisdiction of the court must be returned to the jurisdiction of the court.\n\nIf a defendant enters into a pretrial restraint order to stop goods from being seized, then the defendant may be required to deposit the property either into the registry of the court, with the United States Marshals Service, or with the U.S. Secretary of Treasury in an interest-bearing account. If the defendant refuses the law states that they will be charged with contempt of court and their final sentence may be enhanced under the obstruction of justice provision of the Federal Sentencing Guidelines.\n\nThe U.S. Code was amended to allow the forfeiture of any property within the jurisdiction of the United States that was gained as the result of an offense against a foreign nation that involves the manufacture, importation, sale, or distribution of a controlled substance.\n\nSubchapter II of Chapter 53 of Title 31, United States Code requires certain reports or records from various financial institutions where they have a high degree of usefulness in criminal, tax, or regulatory investigations or proceedings, or in the conduct of intelligence or counterintelligence activities, including analysis, to protect against international terrorism. Section 321 of the USA PATRIOT Act included credit unions, Futures commission merchants, commodity trading advisors and commodity pool operators in its definition of a financial institution. It also defined in all legislation that the term \"Federal functional regulator\" includes the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).\n\nThe U.S. Code was amended to disallow a corporation whose majority shareholder or owner is a fugitive from mounting an innocent owner defense to contest the forfeiture of property by authorities.\n\nThe U.S. Code defines the means by which a foreign nation may seek to have a forfeiture or judgement notification enforced by a district court of the United States. This was amended under section 323 by adding a new paragraph that specifies how the U.S. government may apply for a restraining order to preserve the availability of property which is subject to a foreign forfeiture or confiscation judgement. In evaluating whether to issue the restraining order, the court may rely on information provided in an affidavit which describes the overseas investigation that is underway and why the property in question should be restrained. The U.S. court may also register and enforce a restraining order that has already been issued by a foreign court and which is certified by the Attorney General. Any objections to the restraining order must not include any made on grounds that are part of any parallel foreign litigation over the same property.\n\nSection 323 places a large emphasis on the ability of a foreign court to follow due process when considering an application for a forfeiture or confiscation judgement to be registered and enforced in the U.S. The definition of \"forfeiture and confiscation\" is defined to mean a final order of a foreign nation which compels a person or entity to pay money for \"any violation of foreign law that would constitute a violation or an offense for which property could be forfeited under Federal law if the offense were committed in the United States\".\n\nProvisions were made to allow the Secretary of Treasury and various other agencies (including the Attorney General, the Federal banking agencies as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the National Credit Union Administration Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission) the ability to evaluate the operations of the provisions of title III and make recommendations to Congress. These were to be made within 30 months of the enactment of the Act.\n\nA concentration account is a single account used for the internal purposes of a financial institution to facilitate the processing and settlement of multiple or individual customer transactions within the bank, usually on the same day. Such accounts can lead to the concealment by financial institutions transactions made by customers, however section 325 bans their use for such purposes by prohibiting financial institutions from allowing clients to direct transactions that move their funds into, out of, or through the concentration accounts of the financial institution. Financial institutions are also prohibited from informing clients about the existence of such accounts and disallows any disclosure that may give customer a way of identifying such accounts that the financial institution may use. The section also requires that financial institutions document and follow methods of identifying where the funds are for each customer in a concentration account that commingles funds belonging to one or more customers.\n\nThe Secretary of the Treasury was given the task of prescribing regulations that set forth the minimum standards that financial institutions must undertake to verify the identity of customers who open accounts. The rules implementing section 326 became effective on June 9, 2003, although financial institutions had until October 1, 2003 to\ncome into compliance. The minimum requirements under the section require financial institutions to establish procedures to take reasonable and practicable measures to verify the identity of those applying for an account with the institution; maintain records of the information used to verify a person's identity, including name, address, and other identifying information; and to consult lists of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations provided to the financial institution by any government agency to determine whether a person seeking to open an account appears on any such list. When prescribing the regulations, the Secretary was ordered to take into account the types of accounts available to financial institutions, the various methods someone can use to open accounts, and the various types of identifying information available to the institutions.\n\nUnder the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, banks and other financial institutions are restricted from carrying out activities that do not relate to financial activities. In these cases, the regulations must be prescribed jointly by the Secretary and each Federal functional regulator appropriate for such financial institution. The Secretary also has the power to exempt such institutions from the regulations proscribed under section 326.\n\nThe section also required a report with 6 months of the enactment of the Patriot Act from the Secretary of Treasury in consultation with Federal functional regulators as defined in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. As such, on July 23, 2002 the Department of Treasury, FinCEN, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Commission (FDIC), the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) and the National Credit Union Association (NCUA) jointly released a joint notice of rule-making in the Federal Register for banks, and Treasury simultaneously released an identical notice in the Federal Register for credit unions, private banks and trust companies who did not have a functional regulator. After a considerable response, alterations to the proposed rule making were made and Treasury and the Federal functional agencies released 31 CFR 103.121. The regulation sets out the minimum requirements for setting up a Customer Identification Program (CIP). These requirements for the CIP are that it must:\nThe regulation allows any Federal regulator, in concurrence with the Secretary of Treasury, to exempt a bank or type of account from the regulations given.\n\nThe Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 makes it unlawful, except with prior approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, for a bank to take any action that makes another company into a bank holding company or subsidiary of one; for a bank holding company to acquire direct or indirect shares of more than 5% of a bank; for bank holding companies to acquire all or most of the assets of a bank; and in most circumstances for a bank holding company to merge or consolidate with another bank holding company. Section 327 amends the Act to make the Board take into consideration the effectiveness of the company or companies in combatting money laundering activities, including in overseas branches.\n\nThe Federal Deposit Insurance Act prevents the merger of insured depository institutions with non-insured depository institutions without the written approval of a responsible agency. The Act was amended by section 327 to take into consideration the effectiveness of any insured depository institution involved in the proposed merger transaction in combatting money laundering activities, including in overseas branches, when approving such mergers.\n\nBoth of the amendments only apply to applications submitted to either the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or responsible agency after December 31, 2001, and which were not approved by the Board or responsible agency before the date of enactment of the Patriot Act.\n\nThe Secretary of the Treasury must take all reasonable steps to encourage foreign governments to require the inclusion of the name of the originator in wire transfer instructions sent to the United States and other countries, with the information to remain with the transfer from its origination until the point of disbursement. They must also report annually to the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate on the progress Treasury is making on this issue and what is impeding progress of implementing the wire transfer identification scheme.\n\nAn official or employee of the government who acts corruptly — as well as the person who induces the corrupt act — by being influenced for any official act, who is influenced to allow or collude with any fraudulent act, or who is induced to take or not take some action which is in violation of the person's official duties will be fined by an amount that is not more than three times the monetary equivalent of the bribe in question. Alternatively they may be imprisoned for not more than 15 years, or they may be fined and imprisoned. All violations are subject to chapter 227 of title 18, United States Code, and the provisions of the United States Sentencing Guidelines.\n\nThis section details that the sense of Congress is to encourage international cooperation in investigations of money laundering, financial crimes, and the finances of terrorist groups. The sense is that the U.S. President should direct the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, or the Secretary of the Treasury, as appropriate, and in consultation with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to seek to enter into negotiations with the appropriate financial supervisory agencies and other officials of any foreign country who do business with the U.S.. Congress's purpose is to ensure that foreign banks and other financial institutions maintain adequate records of transaction and account information relating to any foreign terrorist organization, any person who is a member or representative of any such organization, or any person engaged in money laundering or financial or other crimes and establish a mechanism whereby, when appropriate, these records may be made available to United States law enforcement officials and domestic financial institution supervisors.\n"}
{"id": "9619681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9619681", "title": "Pervasiveness doctrine", "text": "Pervasiveness doctrine\n\nIn broadcast law (particularly within U.S. law), the pervasiveness doctrine is the doctrine that because broadcast radio waves are available to anyone and therefore \"uniquely pervasive\", their content is subject to regulation. In general, profanity and sex, or other adult material deemed \"indecent\" by a broadcasting authority, may not be broadcast outside of overnight \"watershed\" or \"safe harbor\" hours when children are unlikely to be awake. Material deemed \"obscene\" may still be prohibited at all times.\nThis has generally been held to only apply to the AM broadcast band (mediumwave), FM broadcast band (VHF band II), and TV broadcast bands (VHF band I and band III, and UHF). It does not apply to cable TV, cable radio, satellite TV, satellite radio, or other forms of electronic media, because although they also use publicly owned airwaves, these are subscription services which the listener or viewer must explicitly request, and are subject to conditional access, analog scrambling, or digital encryption.\n\nThe origin of the name comes from the Federal Communications Commission's 1978 legal case against Pacifica Radio, when the U.S. Supreme Court used the term to justify the verdict against the broadcaster. The \"Federal Communications Commission v. Pacifica Foundation\" case is considered a landmark for American broadcasters.\n"}
{"id": "50633555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50633555", "title": "Right to disconnect", "text": "Right to disconnect\n\nThe right to disconnect is a proposed human right regarding the ability of people to disconnect from work and primarily not to engage in work-related electronic communications such as e-mails or messages during non-work hours. The modern working environment has been drastically changed by new communication and information technologies. The boundary between work life and home life has shrunk with the introduction of digital tools into employment. While digital tools bring flexibility and freedom to employees they also can create an absence of limits, leading to excessive interference in the private lives of employees. For this reason such a right is beneficial. Several countries, primarily in Europe, have some form of the right to disconnect included in their law, while in some cases it is present in the policy of many large companies. On July 24, 2018, the Petition 1057 called for introduction of the right to disconnect or as it is called in French “Le droit à la déconnexion” in the Labour Law in Luxembourg.\n\nThe right to disconnect emerged in France in a decision in the Labour Chamber of the French Supreme Court. The decision on 2 October 2001 held that \"the employee is under no obligation either to accept working at home or to bring there his files and working tools\". In 2004 the Supreme Court affirmed this decision and ruled that \"the fact that [the employee] was not reachable on his cell phone outside working hours cannot be considered as misconduct.\"\n\nThe government of France passed the El Khomri law to reform working conditions for French people. Article 55 under Chapter II \"Adapting the Labour Law to the Digital Age\" (\"Adaptation du droit du travail à l'ère du numérique\") included a provision to amend the French Labour Code to include the right to disconnect (\"le droit de la déconnexion)\". Article 55(1) amended Article L. 2242-8 of the Labour Code by adding a paragraph (7); \"(7) The procedures for the full exercise by the employee of his right to disconnect and the establishment by the company of mechanisms for regulating the use of digital tools, with a view to ensuring respect for rest periods and leave as well as personal and family life. Failing agreement, the employer shall draw up a charter, after consultation with the works council or, failing that, with the staff delegates. This charter defines these procedures for the exercise of the right to disconnect and furthermore provides for the implementation, for employees and management and management personnel, of training and awareness-raising activities on the reasonable use of digital tools.\"\"\"7° Les modalités du plein exercice par le salarié de son droit à la déconnexion et la mise en place par l'entreprise de dispositifs de régulation de l'utilisation des outils numériques, en vue d'assurer le respect des temps de repos et de congé ainsi que de la vie personnelle et familiale. A défaut d'accord, l'employeur élabore une charte, après avis du comité d'entreprise ou, à défaut, des délégués du personnel. Cette charte définit ces modalités de l'exercice du droit à la déconnexion et prévoit en outre la mise en œuvre, à destination des salariés et du personnel d'encadrement et de direction, d'actions de formation et de sensibilisation à un usage raisonnable des outils numériques\"\" As prescribed in Article 55(2), Article 55(1) entered into force on January 1, 2017.\n\nThe government of France adopted the right into its Labour Code in response to a September 2015 report on the impact of digital technologies on labour which supported a right to \"professional disconnection\". The report was presented to the French Minister of Labour Myriam El Khomri after the previous minister sought information on the effect of digital transformation on Labour. The report recommended such a measure stating that a correct balance between work and private life is essential to allow digital transformation to have a positive effect on workers' quality of life and that knowing how to disconnect was a skill which needs to be supported by employers. The report identified cognitive and emotional overload which can lead to a sense of fatigue as a psycho-social risk of being constantly connected.\n\nThe government viewed it necessary to adopt such a law to adapt to the changing nature of the workplace, recognizing that digital technologies have blurred the line between work and private lives. It viewed the introduction of the right to disconnect necessary for the health of French employees.\n\nThe introduction of this law followed a 2016 study that discovered that 37% of workers were using professional digital tools (e.g. work mobile phones) outside of work hours and that 62% of workers wanted more controls and rules to regulate this.\n\nThe right to disconnect is applied to each company in its own way. The El Khomri Law introduces the right but does not define it, allowing companies to choose the most practical ways to implement the right taking into consideration the nature of the business (for example, whether it operates with countries in foreign time zones, or whether the employees work nights or in the weekend). For companies with more than 50 employees the right is to be included in their Mandatory Annual Negotiation (MAN) on gender equality and the nature of quality of life at work, that is already required by the El Khomri Law, by considering ways in which the use of digital tools can be regulated and the means to do this. In the absence of this a \"charter of good conduct\" is to be negotiated with union representatives detailing the times that employees can disconnect from their digital tools, when they would not be expected to connected to their smartphones or laptops. Companies with less than 50 employees are expected to release a document to their employees outlining the rules for their company.\n\nThe right as it exists in the El Khomri Law does not extend to those independent workers who are part of online crowdworking regimes.\n\nThe law does not provide any guidance on possible ways to manage the use of digital tools or ways to train or raise awareness among workers. Additionally, while the new law imposes an obligation for large companies to negotiate there is no obligation to reach an agreement, therefore if no agreement is reached between company and employees the right cannot be applied and enforced. It is assumed that the obligation that applies to small companies, for employers to draw up a charter, would then apply. Again there is no penalty for companies who do not do this. Furthermore, such a charter has no legal value in France, unless it contains terms providing or sanctions against employees which allow it to be considered as an appendix to the internal rules of a company.\n\nEmployers who fail to include the right to disconnect in the MAN are liable to criminal prosecution for obstructing the exercise of union rights, punishable by 1 year in prison and a €3,750 fine.\n\nIt is likely that other European Union nations will follow the example of France and enact a similar law themselves. Outside of a formalized right it is likely that employees and unions could negotiate for similar provisions to apply the right to disconnect to their own workplace, resulting in the right becoming commonplace by human resource management best practice, industry practice, or contractual norms.\n\nWhile not having actual laws relating to the right to disconnect, German companies have a history of implementing policies to the same effect.\n\nVolkswagen implemented a policy in 2011 stating that it would stop email servers from sending emails to the mobile phones of employees between 6pm and 7am. Other German companies such as Allianz, Telekom, Bayer and Henkel all have similar policies in place to limit the amount of digital connection employees have after work hours.\n\nIn 2013 Germany's employment ministry banned its managers from contacting staff after hours as part of a wider agreement on remote working. It was done in order to protect the mental health of workers.\n\nIn 2014, automobile company Daimler introduced a software called \"Mail on Holiday\" that its employees could use to automatically delete incoming emails while they were on vacation. This was done to allow Daimler's employees the opportunity to get a break and come back to work refreshed.\n\nGerman employment minister in 2014, Andrea Nahles, sought to introduce \"anti-stress legislation\" in response to the rising levels of stress and mental health issues in Germany. Such legislation would ban companies from making contact with employees out of work hours. Nahles commissioned the Federal Institute for Occupational Safety and Health to produce a report researching mental health in the work place and the viability of legislation to target it. The report was completed and published in 2017.\n\nThe right to disconnect has recently entered Italian law through Senate Act no 2233-B \"Measures to safeguard non-entrepreneurial self-employment and measures to facilitate flexible articulation in times and places of subordinate employment\". Article 19(1) of the Act governs the implementation for an Agreement on Aggregate Work and includes some form of the right to disconnect.\"The Agreement on Aggregate Work shall be stipulated in writing for the purpose of administrative and probative regularity and shall govern the performance of the work performed outside the premises of the company, including with regard to the forms of exercise of the executive power the employer and the tools used by the worker. \"The agreement also identifies the worker's rest periods as well as the technical and organizational measures necessary to ensure that the worker is disconnected from the technological equipment\".\" [emphasis added]\"L'accordo relativo alla modalità di lavoro agile è stipulato per iscritto ai fini della regolarità amministrativa e della prova, e disciplina l'esecuzione della prestazione lavorativa svolta all'esterno dei locali aziendali, anche con riguardo alle forme di esercizio del potere direttivo del datore di lavoro ed agli strumenti utilizzati dal lavoratore. L'accordo individua altresì i tempi di riposo del lavoratore nonché le misure tecniche e organizzative necessarie per assicurare la disconnessione del lavoratore dalle strumentazioni tecnologiche di lavoro.\"\n\nHouse Bill 4721 was introduced to the Seventeenth Congress of the House of Representatives of the Philippines in January 2017. The long title of the proposed Act is \"An act granting employees the right to disconnect from work-related electronic communications after work hours\" and seeks to amend the Labour Code of the Philippines (Presidential Decree No.442). Firstly it aims to make time spent engaging with work-related electronic tools outside of work hours come under the definition of 'hours worked' under Article 48, secondly it would insert Articles 48-A and 48-B which read;\"Right to disconnect -- An employee shall not be reprimanded, punished, or otherwise subjected to disciplinary action if he or she disregards a work-related communication sent after work-hours, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy to be established by the employer as required in Article 84-B hereof\"\"Policy on after-hours use of technology -- It shall be the duty of every employer to establish the hours when employees are not supposed to send or answer work-related e-mails, texts, or calls. The employer shall determine the conditions and exemptions therefrom, subject to such rules and regulations as the Secretary of Labor and Employment may provide\"This bill has already begun to take effect. In February 2017 the Department of Labour and Employment in the Philippines stated that employees have a right to disconnect from work after hours by disregarding work-related communications without facing discipline.\n\nThe bill has received the support of the General Alliance of Workers Association (GAWA), a labour group in the Philippines. GAWA particularly supports the amendment to Article 48 calling it undeclared labour. GAWA cited the dangers of constant connection as a reason why the bill should pass, referring to the risk of burning or physical and mental stress caused by inability to rest. Additionally they pointed out that employers would see benefits as their employees would be more productive.\n\nThe right to disconnect shares similarities with several preexisting human rights. The most notable of these is the right to rest and leisure found in article 24 of the UDHR. This right explicitly places limitations on the amount of time people can work for, something that the right to disconnect takes further and places into the modern age. The right to disconnect also crosses into the article 23 of the UDHR, that everyone has the right to work and receive fair remuneration and to join trade unions to protect their interests.\n\nThe International Labour Organization is also a relevant source of measures and rights supplementary to the right to disconnect. A recent study endorsed by the ILO has affirmed the need for workers to be able to disconnect from technology in order to avoid the blurring of the lines between work life and personal life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6232594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6232594", "title": "Share capital", "text": "Share capital\n\nA corporation's share capital or capital stock (in US English) is the portion of a corporation's equity that has been obtained by the issue of shares in the corporation to a shareholder, usually for cash. \"Share capital\" may also denote the number and types of shares that compose a corporation's share structure.\n\nIn a strict accounting sense, share capital is the nominal value of issued shares (that is, the sum of their par values, as indicated on share certificates). If the allocation price of shares is greater than their par value, as in a rights issue, the shares are said to be sold at a premium (variously called \"share premium\", \"additional paid-in capital\" or \"paid-in capital in excess of par\"). Commonly, the share capital is the total of the aforementioned nominal share capital and the premium share capital. Conversely, when shares are issued below par, they are said to be issued at a discount or part-paid.\n\nSometimes, shares are allocated in exchange for non-cash consideration, most commonly when corporation A acquires corporation B for shares (new shares issued by corporation A). Here the share capital is increased to the par value of the new shares, and the merger reserve is increased to the balance of the price of corporation B.\n\nIn practice, the concept of \"par value\" has very little meaning, since shares usually represent a residual claim; they do not endow their owners with a claim toward any fixed sum of money. In some jurisdictions, share par values have been either abolished or made optional, so a corporation can issue shares having no par value. In that case, from an accounting perspective, all of the corporation's share capital is premium.\n\nBesides its meaning in accounting, described above, \"share capital\" may also describe the number and types of shares that compose a corporation's share structure. A corporation might have an \"outstanding share capital\" of 500,000 shares (the \"structure\" usage); it has received for them a total of 2 million dollars, which is the \"share capital\" in the balance sheet (the accounting usage).\n\nThe legal aspects of share capital are mostly dealt with in a jurisdiction's corporate law system. An example of such an issue is that when a company allocates new shares, it must do so without inequitably diluting its existing shareholders.\n\nLegal capital is a concept used in UK company law, EU company law, and various other corporate law jurisdictions to refer to the sum of assets contributed to a company by shareholders when they are issued shares. The law often requires that this capital is maintained, and that dividends are not paid when a company is not showing a profit above the level of historically recorded legal capital.\n\nIn the UK, a public limited company must have a minimum legal capital of £50,000. There is no such requirement for a private company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49158869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49158869", "title": "Spanish confiscation", "text": "Spanish confiscation\n\nThe Spanish confiscation was the Spanish government's seizure and sale of property, including from the Catholic Church, from the late 18th century to the early 20th century. It was a long historical, economic, and social process beginning with the so-called \"Confiscation of Godoy\" in 1798—although there was an earlier precedent during the reign of Charles III of Spain—and ending on 16 December 1924. \n\nConfiscation consisted of the forced expropriation of land and property from the \"mortmains\" (i.e., the Catholic Church and religious orders, which had accumulated it from grants, wills, and intestates) and from municipalities. The government then sold the property on the market or through public auctions. A similar phenomenon occurred in other countries, such as Mexico. \n\nThe principal goal in Spain was to obtain money to pay off the public debt securities, known as \"vales reales,\" that the state issued to finance itself. The government also hoped to increase national wealth, to create a bourgeoisie and a middle class of farmers who owned the lands they cultivated, and to foster capitalist conditions (e.g., privatization and a strong financial system) so that the state could collect more taxes. Confiscation was one of the political weapons with which Spanish liberals modified the system of ownership of the Ancien Régime during the first half of the 19th century.\n\nOfficials attributed the struggles of Spanish agriculture during the Ancien Régime to the amount of amortized property held by the \"mortmains\" (primarily the Church and municipalities). These lands were generally poorly cultivated and remained outside the market because they were inalienable—that is, they could not be sold, mortgaged or given away. This led to an increase in the price of \"free\" land, and the amortized property was not taxable because of the privileges of its owners. In a report in 1787, José Moñino, the 1st Count of Floridablanca and minister to Charles III, complained of \"major damages of the amortization\".\n\nPablo de Olavide and Gaspar Melchor de Jovellanos both proposed selling disused solars: uncultivated and uninhabited municipal lands that were generally used as pasture for cattle.\n\nOlavide viewed the protection given to livestock as a cause of agricultural backwardness and argued that \"all the lands should be put to work\". Under his proposal, disused solars would be sold mainly to the rich, because they had the means to cultivate the land, with a smaller number reserved for farmers who had two pairs of oxen. The proceeds would be used to establish a provincial savings bank that would provide funds for public works such as roads, canals and bridges.\nJovellanos's proposal was much more radical, because unlike Olavide—who called for the sale only of disused solars, thereby respecting municipal resources—he suggested privatizing \"council lands\", including municipal properties that brought in tax revenue. Jovellanos, a fervent supporter of economic liberalism, defended the \"free and absolute\" sale of these properties, with no distinctions among the potential buyers. Unlike Olavide, he was not worried about the possibility that the land would pass into the hands of a few magnates, because, as noted by Francisco Tomás y Valiente, he considered the \"liberation\" of disused solars and council lands to be \"a good in itself\". Jovellanos's ideas, which were widely disseminated through his 1795 \"Report on Agrarian Law\", influenced the liberals who launched the confiscations of the 19th century much more than Olavide's proposals, which were not as well publicized.\n\nOlavide and Jovellanos did not advocate the confiscation of Church property, but they suggested limiting, by peaceful means, the acquisition of more land for ecclesiastical institutions. This proposal was rejected by the Church and by most members of the Royal Council when it was put to a vote in June 1766. Two leaflets defending it were included in the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" of the Spanish Inquisition: \"Report on Agrarian Law\" (1795), by Jovellanos, and \"Treaty of the Royalty Payment of Amortization\" (1765), by Pedro Rodríguez, Count of Campomanes.\n\nIn an effort to quell the Esquilache Riots in the spring of 1766, the corregidor-intendente of Badajoz ordered the renting of city property to \"needy neighbors\", with priority given to day laborers who could work the land. The 10th Count of Aranda, newly appointed by Charles III, extended the measure by royal decree to all of Extremadura on 2 May 1766, and to the whole kingdom the following year. A subsequent order in 1768 explained that the measure was intended to serve the poorest farmers and laborers, to promote the \"common good\". However, the measure was repealed on 26 May 1770. \n\nStrictly speaking, this measure was not a confiscation, because the land in question was not sold; it was leased and remained the property of the municipalities. The royal decree that replaced it prioritized leases \"to the laborers of one, two and three yokes\", thus abandoning the initial social purpose. To justify the change, the government alluded to \"problems that have followed in the practice of the various provisions issued earlier about distribution of lands\", referring to the fact that many laborers and poor peasants who had received plots of lands had been unable to cultivate them properly and lacked the means to pay the censuses, since the original decree was not accompanied by loans. \n\nOlavide—who had openly criticized the first measures because he believed the beneficiaries lacked the means to put the land to full use—went on to direct projects in Andalusia and the Sierra Morena region, in which settlers received enough money to begin to cultivate the land they were granted, and were initially exempt from taxes and censuses.\n\nAs Francisco Tomás y Valiente noted, the actions of Charles III were driven more by economic concerns (the need to farm uncultivated land) than by a desire for social reform. However, they were connected to a wider goal of reforming Spain's agricultural economy.\n\nDuring the reign of Charles IV, in September 1798, the Confiscation of Godoy was launched by Mariano Luis de Urquijo and Miguel Cayetano Soler, the Secretary of the Treasury (who had held that position during the government of Manuel Godoy, removed from power six months before). Charles IV obtained permission from the Vatican to expropriate land belonging to the Jesuits and other religious entities, including hospitals, hospices and residential colleges. Altogether, the confiscations accounted for one-sixth of the Church's property.\n\nFrancisco Tomás y Valiente called the Confiscation of Godoy a turning point in linking confiscation to the problems of public debt, unlike the approach taken by Charles III, who presented confiscation as a way to reform (to a very limited extent) the agrarian economy. The subsequent liberal confiscations of the 19th century continued the approach of the Confiscation of Godoy, not that of Charles III.\n\nOn 18 August 1809, Joseph Bonaparte ordered the removal of \"all regular, monastic, mendicant and clerical Orders\", whose assets would automatically belong to the nation. Many religious institutions were thus dissolved with no consideration of canon law. \n\nBonaparte also ordered a lesser confiscation, which did not seize property, but rather the income derived from property. The money went to support the French troops in the Napoleonic Wars. This confiscation ended in 1814.\n\nIn March 1811, the deputies of the Cortes de Cádiz (the Spanish national assembly) recognized the huge debt accumulated in the form of \"vales reales\" during the reign of Charles IV—a debt that the acting treasury secretary, José Canga Argüelles, estimated to be 7 billion reales. After rejecting the argument that the \"vales reales\" should only be recognized for their market value—which was well below their nominal value, and would have bankrupted the holders and made it impossible to obtain new loans—the Cortes de Cádiz approved a proposal made by Argüelles. The proposal called for the confiscation of certain goods from the mortmains, which would then be auctioned. Two-thirds of the auction price would go toward the payment of national debt securities, which included the \"vales reales\" of the previous reign as well as new \"notes of liquidated credit\", which were issued from 1808 on to defray the expenses of the War of Spanish Independence. The remainder of the auction proceeds was dedicated to the payment of interest and the capital of the national debt.\n\nA decree on 4 January 1813 called for the confiscation of all disused solars in order to provide \"relief\" to non-landowning citizens and \"an award for the meritorious defenders of the homeland\". To achieve three purposes at once—fiscal, patriotic and social—it divided the confiscated property in half. The first portion would be sold at auction, and the proceeds used to pay the national debt. The second would be divided into lots of land to be given for free to people who had served in the war, and for a fee to landless citizens. If the latter recipients failed to pay the fee, they lost the assigned lot, which diminished the social aim proclaimed in the decree.\n\nIn a decree on 13 September 1813, which included the Argüelles proposal, the term \"national goods\" was applied to the properties that were to be confiscated. The targets of the confiscation included supporters of Manuel Godoy, the French, the Knights Hospitaller and four Spanish military orders (the Order of Santiago, Order of Alcántara, Order of Calatrava and Order of Montesa); the convents and monasteries suppressed or destroyed during the war; the farms of the Crown, except sites intended for the service and recreation of the king; and half of the disused municipal solars. This decree was never carried out because of the return of Ferdinand VII and the absolute state, according to Francisco Tomás y Valiente, but it established the legal principles and mechanisms of subsequent confiscations.\n\nIn 1820, after the Constitution of 1812 was restored, the Trienio Liberal once again faced the problem of the national debt, which had not been resolved during six years of absolutist rule (1814–20). On 9 August 1820, the new courts revalidated the Cortes de Cádiz's decree of 13 September 1813, but added properties obtained in the Spanish Inquisition to the list of confiscation targets. The new decree differed from previous ones in that it measured \"vales reales\" by their nominal value, which was much higher than the market value.\n\nBecause the market value of debt securities was so low compared with their nominal value, the cash paid by buyers was much lower than the appraised price—in some cases, less than 15 percent of the nominal value. As a result, in 1823, some deputies proposed suspending the confiscation decree and the delivering ownership of the properties in question to their tenants. One of these deputies declared that \"the farms have been taken over by rich capitalists, and these, once they have taken possession of them, have made a new lease, generally increasing the rent to the poor farmer, threatening to spoil if they do not pay on time\". But despite the criticism, the confiscation process continued unchanged.\n\nBy an order of 8 November 1820 (which would be replaced by another decree on 29 June 1822), the Trienio revived the Cortes de Cádiz's decree of 4 January 1813 on the sale of unused lands and goods from the municipalities. A decree on 1 October 1820 also included ecclesiastical confiscation, which the Cortes de Cádiz had not addressed. This decree concerned the monasteries of the monastic orders; the regular canons of Saint Benedict, St. Augustine and the Premonstratensians; the convents and colleges of the military orders, the Knights Hospitaller, and the Orders of Saint John of God and the Bethlehemite Brothers; and \"all other hospitals of any kind\". Their goods and immovable properties were \"applied to the public credit\" as \"national assets\" subject to immediate confiscation. A few days later, on 11 October 1820, a law was issued prohibiting real estate purchases by mortmains, a measure first advocated in the 18th century by Rodríguez and Jovellanos.\n\nJuan Álvarez Mendizábal (prime minister of Queen Regent Maria Christina) and Pascual Madoz (finance minister of Queen Isabel II) were responsible for the two most important liberal confiscations. The 1836 Ecclesiastical Confiscation of Mendizábal, in particular, had major consequences for the economic and social history of Spain.\n\nThe division of land was entrusted to municipal committees, which took advantage of their power to create large lots that were affordable only for very wealthy oligarchs. Small farmers could not enter competitive bids, and the land was bought by nobles and the urban bourgeoisie, preventing the development of a true middle class that could pull Spain out of stagnation.\n\nBecause the confiscation applied only to regular clergy members, the Church decided to excommunicate both the sellers and buyers of the land. As a result, most people chose not to buy lots directly. Instead, they made their purchases through intermediaries or strawpersons.\n\nOn 2 September 1841, the newly appointed regent, Baldomero Espartero, ordered the confiscation of the estates of the Church and religious orders, with a bill authored by the finance minister, Pedro Surra Rull. The law was repealed three years later.\n\nIn 1845, during the Moderate Decade, the government tried to restore relations with the Church, leading to the signing of the Concordat of 1851.\n\nDuring the \"bienio progresista\" period (at the forefront of which were Espartero and Leopoldo O'Donnell), Finance Minister Madoz carried out a new confiscation, which was executed with greater control than Mendizábal's. The order was published in \"La Gaceta de Madrid\" on 3 May 1855, and the instruction to carry it out was given on 31 May. It included the lands and censuses of the state; of the clergy; of the military orders of Santiago, Alcántara, Montesa and St. John of Jerusalem; of confraternities, sanctuaries and shrines; of a former infante, Don Carlos; and of the mortmains. The religious schools and hospitals of St. John of God were exempt because they reduced government spending in these areas. \n\nConfiscation had long been a subject of confrontation between conservatives and liberals, but there came a time when all political parties recognized the need to put idle assets to use in order to promote Spain's economic development. The application of the Madoz law was suspended on 14 October 1856 but resumed two years later, on 2 October 1858, when O'Donnell was president of the Council of Ministers. The changes of government did not affect the auctions, which continued until the end of the century. \n\nAlthough the Confiscation of Mendizábal has received more attention from historians because of its duration and societal repercussions, the Confiscation of Madoz involved far more sales. In 1867, 198,523 rural properties and 27,442 urban properties were sold. The state collected 7,856,000,000 reales between 1855 and 1895, almost twice that obtained in the Confiscation of Mendizábal. The money went mainly toward the budget deficit, public debt repayment and public works, with 30 million reales per year reserved for the \"reconstruction and repair\" of certain churches. \n\nThe Madoz law has been called a civil confiscation, but this is a misnomer. A large number of farms that had been the common property of the people were, in fact, auctioned, but many more of the properties that were sold had belonged to the Church, and especially to the secular clergy. Nonetheless, the confiscation of farms belonging to rural Spaniards who depended heavily on them condemned millions to emigration and proletarianization in cities. Of all the property auctioned off, it is estimated that 35% belonged to the Church, 15% to charity and 50% to municipalities. \n\nThe Municipal Statute of 1924, pushed by José Calvo Sotelo, repealed confiscation laws and thus ended the Confiscation of Madoz.\n\nAt the time of the confiscations, Spain could be roughly divided into a southern area with a predominance of large estates and a northern area of small and medium-size farms. According to the historian Richard Herr, one result of the confiscations was that the demographics of the two regions diverged dramatically based on the size of the lots put up for auction, and the structure of land ownership changed. Small lots were typically bought by the inhabitants of nearby villages, while larger lots were acquired by rich Spaniards who lived in cities, often far away. In the south, very few small farmers had the financial resources to bid for the large estates, which reinforced the region's landlordism. In the north, however, this did not generally happen.\n\nAnother consequence was the privatization of communal properties that had belonged to the municipalities. Many farmers were deprived of resources on which they depended for survival (e.g., firewood and pastures), which fueled the emigration of the rural population to industrialized areas of the country or to the Americas. This migration reached its peak in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nThe confiscations also led to the exclaustration of thousands of religious by the government of the Count of Toreno. The Royal Order of Ecclesiastical Exclaustration of 1835, issued on 25 July, suppressed convents with fewer than twelve professed members. On 8 March 1836, a new decree suppressed virtually all monasteries (with some exceptions, such as Piarists and Hospitallers), and a decree on 29 July 1837 did the same for female convents (except for the Sisters of Charity).\n\nJulio Caro Baroja has drawn attention to the figure of the old, exclaustrated priest, who—unlike young men, many of whom joined the Carlists or the National Militia—lived \"enduring their misery, emaciated, teaching Latin in the schools, or doing other underpaid odd jobs\". Thus, in addition to economic consequences, the suppression of the religious orders had a \"huge impact on the social history of Spain\". Caro Baroja quotes the liberal progressivist Fermín Caballero, who wrote in 1837, shortly after the secularization, that \"the total extinction of the religious orders is the most gigantic step Spain has taken in the present time; it is the real act of reform and revolution\".\n\nThe confiscations also changed the appearance of Spain's cities by secularizing them. For example, Salustiano de Olózaga, the Basque-born governor of Madrid, tore down 17 convents there.\n\nThe confiscations brought in more than 14 trillion reales from auctions, thus improving public finances. They also increased the nation's agricultural productivity and cultivated acreage, and improved and specialized crops through new investment by landowners. In Andalusia, for example, olive and wine production grew considerably. These gains, however, were accompanied by the negative effects of deforestation.\n\nAdditionally, most ordinary Spaniards suffered because of the harm done to the subsistence economy when communal lands that had been used primarily for grazing passed into private hands.\n\nMany paintings (including some Romanesque) and monastery libraries were sold at low prices and eventually exported to other countries, though many books also went to public libraries or universities. Others fell into private hands and were lost. \n\nThe confiscations left numerous buildings of artistic interest, such as churches and monasteries, to ruin, but others, such as the Church of San Martín in Cuéllar, were preserved as museums or other public institutions.\n\nOne of the goals of the 19th-century confiscations was to consolidate the liberal regime. However, although the people who bought properties in the north formed a new class of small and medium-size landowners who supported the regime, the goal was undermined by large landowners' acquisition of most of the confiscated lots in southern Spain.\n\nAround half of the lands that were confiscated had belonged to peasants and other rural people, and rural areas still account for 90% of the territory of Spain. These communal lands supported the peasants' precarious economy, and their confiscation meant the destruction of the peasants' way of life and self-governance.\n\nAs a result of the confiscations, millions of hectares of forest fell into private hands and were cleared and plowed, causing immense environmental damage that is still visible today. Indeed, the cost of reforestation, ongoing for 70 years, far exceeds what was obtained from the sales.\n\nThe confiscations of the 19th century were one of the biggest environmental disasters for the Iberian Peninsula in centuries. The Confiscation of Madoz, in particular, resulted in the privatization of huge expanses of publicly owned forest. The oligarchs who bought the land paid, for the most part, with wood obtained from it. Much of the deforestation of the Iberian Peninsula occurred at that time, leading to the extinction of many plant and animal species in the region.\n\nThe confiscation of convents contributed to the modernization of Spanish cities, transforming them from cities dominated by religious structures to bourgeois cities with taller buildings and new public spaces. Many former convents became public buildings, including museums, hospitals, offices and barracks. Others were demolished to make room for streets, squares and even multistory car parks. Still others became parishes or, through auctions, passed into private hands.\n\nMany old landmarks, mainly in Castile and Madrid, during or as a consequence of the liberal confiscations. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "55060125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55060125", "title": "Stone v. Trump", "text": "Stone v. Trump\n\nStone v. Trump (1:17-cv-02459-MJG) is a lawsuit filed on August 28, 2017 in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The lawsuit alleges that President Donald Trump's ban on transgender personnel joining the U.S. military violates their equal protection and due process rights. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) of Maryland filed the suit on behalf of Petty Officer First Class Brock Stone, an 11-year veteran of the U.S. Navy, and several other transgender service members. In addition to President Trump, the suit names as defendants the Secretaries of Defense (James Mattis), the Army (Ryan McCarthy, acting), the Navy (Richard Spencer), and the Air Force (Heather Wilson).\n\nTrump first announced a policy banning transgender people from serving in the military in \"any capacity\" in a series of tweets on July 26, 2017, stating that allowing such service members would incur \"tremendous medical costs and disruption\". The decision reversed Obama administration policy to allow the enlistment of transgender personnel, which was initially approved by the Department of Defense to begin July 1, but was delayed by Defense Secretary Mattis. Trump issued formal guidance on the ban to the Secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security in a memorandum on August 25, 2017.\n\nThe initial complaint was filed on August 28, 2017 in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland on behalf of five named and one anonymous transgender personnel either currently serving on active duty or in the National Guard. The complaint cited news articles that \"indicate that President Trump's motivations in abruptly announcing a transgender ban were largely political, reflecting a desire to placate legislators and advisers who bear animus and moral disapproval toward men and women who are transgender\" and further stated there was \"no evidence that this about-face in policy was supported by any study of the issue or any consultation with military officers, DoD [Department of Defense] officials, other military experts, or medical or legal experts\".\n\nAn amended complaint was filed on September 14, noting that one of the named plaintiffs, Staff Sergeant Kate Cole, had been denied medically-indicated surgery on September 8. That same day, the Plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary injunction. In the attached memorandum in support, the Plaintiffs noted that \"President Trump’s asserted military justifications have already been studied at length and rejected \"by the military itself\". The Ban reflects a decision to single out a disfavored group and withdraw legal protection based not on evidence but animus, moral disapproval, and crass political calculation.\" The memorandum also argued that \"each day that President Trump’s unconstitutional directive remains in effect, Plaintiffs and their families continue to grapple with the stress and uncertainty of having their careers, their livelihoods, and their medical care jeopardized by a Commander-in-Chief who rejects their service and their sacrifice.\"\n\nThe United States Department of Justice Civil Division (USDOJ) filed a motion to dismiss on October 12, 2017, calling the request for a preliminary injunction \"premature several times over\" as Secretary Mattis's Interim Guidance of September 14, 2017 would prevent involuntary discharge, separation, or denied re-enlistment at least until March 2018. Senior medical and commanding officers provided sworn statements that they would comply with the Interim Guidance, in support of USDOJ's arguments.\n\nIn response, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed an opposing motion on October 27, 2017 which noted the Presidential Memorandum of August 25, 2017 prohibited the accession (enlistment and commissioning) of transgender people into the military as of January 1, 2018, the funding of \"sex-reassignment surgical procedures for military personnel\" would cease on March 23, 2018, and the Secretary of Defense was directed to \"return to the longstanding policy and practice on military service\" which required involuntary discharge of personnel solely on the basis of their transgender status, also on March 23. Three separate \"amici\" briefs were filed in support of the complaint, by The Trevor Project (October 26), retired military officers (October 27/corrected October 30), and the same fourteen states and the District of Columbia which had collectively filed an earlier, similar brief in \"Doe v. Trump\" (October 30). On November 3, the government filed a motion in support of their earlier motion to dismiss, stating the Presidential Memorandum of August 25 \"specifically directs the Secretary of Defense to study how to address transgender individuals who are currently serving in the military and does not predetermine the outcome of that study\" and the \"reliance on statements that the President made on Twitter several weeks before issuing his Presidential Memorandum is misplaced.\"\n\nDuring this time, Judge Kollar-Kotelly issued a partial preliminary injunction to the proposed ban in \"Doe v. Trump\" on October 30. For \"Stone v. Trump\", the Plaintiffs filed a memorandum on October 31, asking to continue consideration of the preliminary injunction as several of the plaintiffs in this case were affected by the ban on medically necessary surgeries implemented by the Presidential Memorandum of August 25. USDOJ argued on November 7 the preliminary injunction in \"Doe v. Trump\" \"has, in large measure, provided Plaintiffs with the remedy that they seek at this stage\" and \"[t]his Court should therefore stay all proceedings\".\n\nOn November 21, 2017, Judge Marvin J. Garbis issued a preliminary injunction to the entire Presidential Memorandum of August 25. Judge Garbis's order also blocks the prohibition on gender reassignment surgery, going further than Judge Kollar-Kotelly's October 2017 injunction in the related case \"Doe v. Trump\". In the order, Judge Garbis wrote \"A capricious, arbitrary, and unqualified tweet of new policy does not trump the methodical and systematic review by military stakeholders qualified to understand the ramifications of policy changes\", referring to the July tweets by President Trump announcing the reinstatement of the ban, which had caught Pentagon leadership by surprise and drew swift condemnation from senior retired officers.\n\nUSDOJ filed a notice of appeal on December 5. USDOJ also asked the Court to clarify on December 12 if Secretary Mattis retained independent authority to further delay the accession (the process of entering military service, whether through enlistment, Service Academy, ROTC, or similar programs) of transgender candidates. Under the \"status quo\" enforced by the preliminary injunction, accession of transgender candidates was set to start on January 1, 2018. This date resulted from the postponement by Secretary Mattis of six months after the initial deadline of July 1, 2017 under the accession plan proposed by Secretary Carter in 2016. USDOJ asked for the clarification to be issued by noon, December 14. The parties had a conference on December 13, confirming that discovery should conclude by April 24, 2018, and the trial or hearing would be held in July 2018.\n\nOn December 14, USDOJ filed an emergency motion for a stay on Judge Garbis's order with the Fourth Circuit. The emergency motion used similar language to the emergency motion filed on December 11 with the D.C. Circuit in \"Doe v. Trump\". Both appeal court motions asked for a stay that would allow Secretary Mattis to issue a second delay for accession of transgender candidates to military service. Alternatively, the stay could act to narrowly constrain the preliminary injunction to allow the accession of only Seven Ero George, the single Plaintiff in \"Stone v. Trump\" that Judge Garbis ruled had standing to challenge the ban on accessions. Plaintiffs filed their opposition to the emergency motion on December 18, stating \"[i]t was the President's unconstitutional actions that ended an orderly process [of planned accession]\" and \"[defendants did] not explain why the months of training that have already occurred are insufficient, or offer an explanation of what training they believe remains necessary and how long it would take.\" In support, USDOJ stated \"that implementation [of accession] was put on hold on August 25, 2017\" and \"the military will still have to take significant steps in order to meet an unexpected January 1 deadline\".\n\nPlaintiffs followed up with a memorandum of supplemental authority on December 19 after the Pentagon memorandum of December 8 outlining guidance for accession of transgender candidates was introduced in \"Karnoski v. Trump\". USDOJ argued \"Secretary Mattis cannot, without risking contempt, exercise his independent authority to give the military more time to consider a momentous change to its accession standards\" and produced a follow-up memorandum, dated December 19.\n\nOn December 21, 2017, a panel of three judges on the Fourth Circuit denied USDOJ's emergency motion for a stay on Judge Garbis's order. Judge Garbis also denied the Motion for Clarification and Partial Stay on December 28, noting the defendants were \"request[ing] judicial advice as to what can be done to delay transgender accesstion to the military that will not risk a contempt finding\" and they also had \"not met their burden to establish irreparable harm if they must implement the accessions provision by January 1, 2018\". USDOJ filed a motion to withdraw the appeal, which was granted on February 2, 2018.\n\nOn January 26, 2018, the Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel initial disclosures, which was granted on February 6. In their motion, the Plaintiffs stated the \"Defendants’ two-sentence “initial disclosure” contains none of the required identifications, and is tantamount to no disclosure at all\" instead of identifying the individuals, documents, and information that may be used to support their defense. Both sides entered into an agreement to enable confidential documents to be designated as privileged and protected from public disclosure on February 12.\n\nAs in \"Doe v. Trump\", USDOJ moved to dismiss the claims against the President and partially dissolve the preliminary injunction on March 1, 2018, arguing \"the President is not a proper defendant in this case\" as separation of powers dictates \"the non-ministerial conduct of the President when he acts in his official capacity cannot be enjoined.\" In their response, counsel for the Plaintiffs characterized the motion as a \"startling proposition [that] should be rejected\" and the \"President is no king, but he too may be sued. This court has the power to determine whether the President has acted within the law, and to declare that the President violated the law.\" They added the \"Defendants’ argument that the President has absolute immunity from a lawsuit challenging\nhis own unconstitutional actions is based on little more than sleight-of-hand\", noting the USDOJ arguments relied on citing cases where injunctive relief was applied, instead of declaratory relief. USDOJ replied that declaratory and injunctive relief were equivalent.\n\nAfter President Trump issued a new memorandum on March 23, 2018, revoking the prior Memorandum of August 25, USDOJ moved to dissolve the preliminary injunction and asked for a protective order. The motion to dissolve the preliminary injunction noted the new policy was not \"a categorical ban based on transgender status, [but instead] this new policy, like the Carter policy before it, would turn on the medical condition of gender dysphoria and contain a nuanced set of exceptions allowing some transgender individuals, including every individual Plaintiff here, to serve.\" Since the new policy of March 2018 establishes gender dysphoria as a disqualifying medical condition, USDOJ argued \"the military's new policy is constitutional\", especially since the basis for the new policy asserted \"that retaining the Carter policy would pose risks to military readiness\". The proposed protective order asked that discovery should be halted, or the scope of discovery should be \"significantly narrow[ed]\" in light of the new policy.\n\nOn April 23, 2018, the Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint addressing the new Memorandum. The defendants filed a new motion to dismiss the amended complaint on May 11, arguing that the Department of Defense issued the new policy only after a \"methodical and systematic review by military stakeholders qualified to understand the ramifications of policy changes.\"\n\nOn August 14, the court denied the defendants' motion for a protective order, and simultaneously granted the Plaintiffs' motion to compel the defendants to disclose documents in response to discovery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29463214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29463214", "title": "São Toméan constitutional referendum, 1990", "text": "São Toméan constitutional referendum, 1990\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in São Tomé and Príncipe on 22 August 1990. The new constitution would introduce multi-party democracy for the first time since independence, as well as limiting the President to two terms. It was approved by 95.3% of voters. Parliamentary and presidential elections were held the following year.\n"}
{"id": "6766036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6766036", "title": "The Hague Justice Portal", "text": "The Hague Justice Portal\n\nThe Hague Justice Portal (in French: 'Portail judiciaire de La Haye' ) is a website that promotes, and provides greater access to, the institutions, courts and organisations in The Hague, The Netherlands, working in the field of international peace, justice and security. The Portal was officially launched by Her Royal Highness Princess Margriet of the Netherlands in The Hague on 6 April 2006.\n\nThe Portal is a gateway to the legal activities taking place in The Hague, a city which, in the words of former United Nations Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, \"amply deserves its reputation as the International City of Peace and Justice\".\n\nAn innovative project created by the Hague Academic Coalition, the Portal was officially launched in April 2006. In addition to the core legal institutions in The Hague such as the International Court of Justice, the International Criminal Court and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the Portal promotes, and provides greater access to, the work and the development of the large number of other international organisations, institutes and research centres based in The Hague, which are relevant to the pursuit of international peace, justice and security.\n\nThe management of the Portal was transferred to a committee led by Philipp Amann on the 1st of March 2014 and a new stream-lined version of the website was created. The new committee are based in The Hague and have a strong vision for the future of the site.\n\nThe Portal itself comprises five main sections: ‘News and Events’, ‘Projects’, ‘Academic Research’, ‘The Hague’ and ‘Portal’.\n\nNews and Events: This news section includes up-to-date information about what happens in the international courts and about their crucial judgments and decisions, issued from official sources and edited by legal experts. The event calendar announces legal events, conferences, lectures and speeches taking place in The Hague.\n\nAcademic Research: This is the focal point of the Portal where court documents, commentaries, articles, press releases and an important bibliography of books are accessible. The Hague Justice Journal – Journal Judiciaire de La Haye contains articles and commentaries by expert commentators analysing legal issues, as well as an overview of recent decisions.\n\nProjects: Currently, the Hague Justice Portal has two specific projects. The first one is undertaken in close collaboration with the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) for the sake of digitalising a number of the Court’s historic international arbitral awards which were previously unavailable in electronic format. The second one is called the DomCLIC project, which is a pilot for an ever-expanding database of domestic jurisprudence relating to international criminal law from countries all over the world.\nIn April 2014, Colette O'Donovan agreed to lead a new project. The Hague Justice Gender Project will focus on raising awareness of issues and events specifically relating to gender in international law.\n\nThe Hague: This part of the website offers an interesting insight into the city of The Hague. Whether you are a tourist or an expatriate, or consider moving to The Hague, the Portal wishes to guide you in your first steps. Visitors also have access to a vacancy list of job opportunities in the city, including legal and justice-related employment and internship positions.\n\nPortal: This final section provides information about the Hague Academic Coalition(HAC) to which the Portal pertains. This consortium of institutions that work in the fields of international relations and international law offers their latest publications and research papers.\n\nThe Portal has already acquired considerable attention from the community of jurists.\n\nHaving historical PCA arbitration awards on line, freely-accessible and in one place, is helpful to researchers.\nInformation is also easily available on such important cases as that of Slobodan Milošević, Charles G. Taylor, Thomas Lubanga Dyilo and Vojislav Šešelj.\n\nFor the first time, persons around the world will be able to monitor ICC trials. Cornell Law School's web site, a well-used web site for legal research, now links to the Portal. The International Justice Tribune, another site for International law also links to the Portal. Several scholars so far have used and cited the Portal in their research, one about the David Hicks case, and another about the Hariri Tribunal.\n"}
{"id": "1484855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1484855", "title": "Traffic code", "text": "Traffic code\n\nTraffic code (also motor vehicle code) refers to the collection of local statutes, regulations, ordinances and rules that have been officially adopted in the United States to govern the orderly operation and interaction of motor vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians and others upon the public (and sometimes private) ways. \n\nThe traffic code generally includes provisions relating to the establishment of authority and enforcement procedures, statement of the rules of the road, and other safety provisions. Administrative regulations for driver licensing, vehicle ownership and registration, insurance, vehicle safety inspections and parking violations may also be included, though not always directly related to driving safety. Violations of traffic code (i.e., a \"moving violation\") are often dealt with by forfeiting a fine in response to receiving a valid citation (\"getting a ticket\"). Other violations, such as drunk driving or vehicular homicide are handled through the criminal courts, although there may also be civil and administrative cases that arise from the same violation (including payment of damages and loss of driving privileges). In some jurisdictions there is a separate code-enforcement branch of government that handles illegal parking and other non-moving violations (e.g., noise and other emissions, illegal equipment). Elsewhere, there may be multiple overlapping police agencies patrolling for violations of state or federal driving regulations.\n\nIn 1949, US is involved in the treaty named Convention sur la circulation routière (Genève, 19 September 1949) in the goal to «establishing certain uniform rules». Such treaty defines for instance dimension of vehicles: 2m50 or 8 feet 20 and in the other side 3m80 or 12 feet 50 or a model of driving permit (USA ratification 30 August 1950). It also assumes existence of national legislation in this domain.\n\nIn the United States each state has its own traffic code, although most of the rules of the road are similar for the purpose of uniformity, given that all states grant reciprocal driving privileges (and penalties) to each other's licensed drivers. There is also a \"Uniform Vehicle Code\" which has been proposed by a private, non-profit group, based upon input by its members. As with many such offerings, some states adopt selected portions as written, or else with modifications, and others create their own versions. Similarly, most states have adopted relevant standards for signs and signals, based upon the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices from the U.S. Department of Transportation. Many of the standard rules of the road involve consistent interpretation of the standard signs and signals, such as what to do when approaching a stop sign, or the driving requirements imposed by a double yellow line on the street or highway. Many federal departments have also adopted their own traffic code for enforcement on their respective reservations (e.g., national parks, military bases).\n\nList of some standard Rules of the Road:\n\nGeorgia’s new law which took effect from July 01, 2018 prohibits the drivers from holding any devices (Mobile phones or any electronic devices) in hand while driving. \n\nMost countries define a national legislation relative to car driving and penalties. Most of those regulation have some common basis to help people driving from one country to one other: Vienna Convention on Road Traffic and Vienna Convention on Road Signs and Signals have helped this harmonization effort.\n\nRoad, driving and traffic regulations are the subject to specific codification of the law in countries such as:\nIn Morocco, the law «loi n°52-05 portant code de la route» deals with a new traffic code, approved on 14 January 2009, and adopted on 11 February 2010 (26 safar 1431).\n\nIn Belgium this regulation is not a code although it is road traffic specific. It is defined by \"Koninklijk besluit houdende algemeen reglement op de politie van het wegverkeer en van het gebruik van de openbare weg. [KB. 09.12.1975]\".\n\nIn Switzerland, this legislation is not considered as code it is legislation number 741.01.\n\nIn United Kingdom there is no codification. Some piece of laws such as a Road Traffic Act and a Traffic Signs Regulations and General Directions do exist; a book named Highway Code is edited by public entity with guidelines based and/or compatible with local law.\n\nIn European Union federal level, legislation is more oriented on transport competition and not on sharing the road. There is some effort oriented to issues such as driving license and car control.\n\nSee also:\n\nSee also small-mini-drafts:\n\n"}
{"id": "8619435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8619435", "title": "Viktor Alksnis", "text": "Viktor Alksnis\n\nViktor Alksnis (, ; born 21 June 1950) is an ethnic Latvian Russian politician and former Soviet Air Force colonel. He is the chairman of Russian Center of Free Technologies, an organization intended to promote Free Software and open standards in Russia. He is a former member of the USSR Supreme Soviet, a member of the Russian All-People's Union and has also represented the Rodina (Motherland-National Patriotic Union) party in the Russian State Duma. From 2003 to 2007, he represented the People's Union party in the Fourth Duma.\n\nDue to his political views and personal style, Alksnis was nicknamed \"the Black Colonel\", an allusion to the Soviet term \"Black Colonels\" () for the Greek military junta of 1967-1974.\n\nIn the 1930s, Alksnis's grandfather, Yakov Alksnis () was the head of the Soviet Air Force. He also took part in the military tribunal for the Case of Trotskyist Anti-Soviet Military Organization, which sentenced Mikhail Tukhachevsky and other high-ranking Soviet officers to death on Joseph Stalin's order. However, only eight months later, Yakov Alksnis himself was also arrested and executed.\n\nAlksnis's grandmother spent 14 years in labor camps and his father was discriminated for being the son of an \"enemy of the people\".\n\nDuring the destalinization of late 1950s Yakov Alksnis was posthumously rehabilitated; the Air Forces college in Riga was named in his honour. Despite these Stalin-era persecutions of his family members, Viktor Alksnis became a staunch supporter of the Soviet political system.\n\nIn 1973 Alksnis graduated from the Riga Higher Military Aviation Engineering School named for his grandfather as a qualified military radio engineer.\n\nAlksnis's Latvian heritage was the subject of slander allegations in 2007 involving comments on the Internet.\n\nViktor Alksnis was a strong opponent of the breakup of the Soviet Union and of the independence of the Baltic States. He claims that the Baltic states are apartheid regimes, that the Russian population in these states suffers repression.\n\nIn 1989 he was elected into the Supreme Soviet of the USSR. In 1990 he was elected to the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia. In 1990, he was one of the founders of a hard-line group \"Soyuz\" within the USSR Supreme Soviet. He once proposed the ousting of Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev from power, dissolving the parliament, outlawing all parties, the declaration of martial law and the handing of power to a Military \"Committee of National Salvation\", which would avoid the disintegration of the Soviet Union.\n\nHe has described the internationally non-recognized Transnistrian Republic as the base from which the restoration of the Soviet Union would begin.\n\nIn later years Alksnis claimed to be a principal figure behind the Riga OMON, known for opposing the secession of Latvia from the USSR and actions such as the Soviet OMON assaults on Lithuanian border posts.\n\nHe was designated persona non grata in Latvia after he left the country in 1992. Since that time he has taken part in Russian politics, representing left-wing and nationalist positions. Alksnis was one of the leaders of the National Salvation Front that united nationalist and communist movements that opposed Yeltsin's policies. In 2005, he was named \"persona non grata\" in Ukraine as well, after he called for a Russian-Ukrainian border revision while speaking at a rally in Simferopol, Crimea.\n\nIn 2007, Alksnis launched a campaign to promote the use of Free Software such as the Linux operating system in Russian state institutions to secure software independence.\n\nIn February 2008 he joined forces with Aleksandr Ponosov, a school teacher accused of software piracy, to form Center of Free Technology, a non-profit initiative which will research methods of usage of Free Software in the Russian education system.\n\nAlksnis has met with project coordinator Aleksey Bragin to promote the development of the ReactOS operating system. He also invited Richard Stallman, the founder of the GNU project and Free Software Foundation to Moscow. The visit however was canceled by Stallman due to the controversy surrounding Alksnis.\n\nIn 2006, Alksnis said in an interview that Israel and the United States are enemies of Iran's peaceful nuclear program, and their hostile attitude towards Iran is an attempt to cover-up the United States' mistakes in Iraq.\n\n"}
{"id": "23227121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23227121", "title": "WAP billing", "text": "WAP billing\n\nWAP billing is a mechanism for consumers to buy content from Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) sites that is charged directly to their mobile phone bill. It is an alternative payment mechanism to debit or credit cards and premium SMS for billing. Using WAP billing, consumers can buy mobile content without registering for a service or entering a username or password. The user clicks on a link and agrees to make a purchase, after which they can download content.\n\nWAP billing is particularly associated with downloading mobile entertainment content like ringtones, mobile games and wallpapers. Some commentators have suggested it could compete with Premium SMS as a leading payment channel for mobile content.\n\nWAP billing works with WAP-enabled mobile phones over a GPRS or 3G wireless connection. The customer initiates a WAP session with the content service provider by browsing a WAP page, for example. The WAP site hoster obtains the visitor’s MSISDN without the visitor having to register on a specific WAP gateway or service. This information is provided through integration with the operator's own MSISDN lookup service.\n\nConsumers confirm a purchase by clicking on a ‘confirm purchase’ link on their mobile phone and the WAP billing platform informs the WAP application of the completed purchase transaction. Consumers are redirected to the content they have purchased. The purchases are recorded and billed directly via the mobile phone bill using the MSISDN.\n\nAttempts have been made to create a single, cross-operator WAP billing platform that can support the purchase of products on any mobile network.\n\nIn other markets, like Ireland, WAP Billing is available across O2 and Vodafone mobile operators, via MSIDSN forwarding. WAP billing is only available to mobile aggregators operating in the Irish market on a case by case, business model basis, unlike the UK market.\n\nThe benefits cited for WAP Billing include the ability to sell to minors who lack a credit card or bank account and an improved customer experience including ‘Single click’ purchases where transactions are completed without consumers having to send or receive a text message or remember shortcodes. It has been claimed that WAP Billing also reduces the possibility of fraud when paying for mobile content. Another benefit cited for WAP Billing is the assertion that users experience the same ‘browse and buy’ experience they are used to via their PC on the Internet.\n\nWAP billing lacks transparency to the customer. The act of signing a contract, handing out money to a human, reading, understanding and writing or at least typing something and thus also indirectly proving that you are a legitimate customer is reduced to a single touch. Even a child or a pet that occasionally touches the screen may trigger a purchase. Often a customer doesn't notice that they've actually paid for something or bought a subscription, until they look at their phone bill afterwards.\n\nTo silently start billing with a single click is very inviting for malicious apps and malicious embedded ads. This misuse of WAP billing is a form of clickjacking.\n\nOnce triggered it is hard to stop or cancel a payment. \nNormally there are three entities involved in the claim of the money: \n\nThus, the service is indirectly paid through your phone bill. This makes it more complicated to deny the payment or to claim your money back.\n\nIn 2013, the Federal Trade Commission settled with Jesta Digital LLC concerning unauthorized WAP billing charges.\n\n"}
{"id": "43835379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43835379", "title": "World Plaza", "text": "World Plaza\n\nWorld Plaza is a 27-storey office building in Bonifacio Global City (BGC), Philippines. It is a development of Daiichi Properties with Gensler, the team who also developed the Best Office Development in the Philippines at the Asia Pacific Property Awards, One World Place in 2011. World Plaza is a Class A building and a PEZA registered IT Park. It has 18 floors of typical office space, penthouse level, and mechanical deck floor.\n\nWorld Plaza is located along 5th Avenue in the Crescent West District. It is located adjacent to the upcoming ArthaLand Tower and close to the new Shangri-La Hotel in BGC.\n\nWorld Plaza's architectural height is 115 m / 377 ft and its height to tip is 115 m / 377 ft. Aiming to be LEED Gold-Certified, World Plaza offers sustainable and eco-friendly features. Unlike typical building lots, World Plaza's location is triangular, seemingly rotated in a 90-degree angle.\n"}
{"id": "10481704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10481704", "title": "Xunlei", "text": "Xunlei\n\nXunlei Limited () is a Chinese multinational technology company and an online service provider founded in 2003. The subsidiary of Xunlei Limited, Shenzhen Xunlei Networking Technologies, Co., Ltd. () was formerly known as Sandai Technologies (Shenzhen) Inc. and changed its name to Shenzhen Xunlei Networking Technologies, Co., Ltd. in May 2005. In April 2014, Xunlei received an investment from a Chinese electronics company Xiaomi of $200 million. On 24 June 2014, it went public on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange, selling 7.315 million American depositary shares (ADS) at $12 and raising just shy of $88 million. According to the annual ranking of China's top 100 internet companies released by Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the Chinese government, Xunlei occupied 42nd place in 2017's ranking.\n\nThe main products developed by Xunlei Limited is the Xunlei download manager and Peer-to-peer software, supporting HTTP, FTP, eDonkey, and BitTorrent protocols. , it was the most commonly used BitTorrent client in the world. In October 2017, the company announced that it will transform itself into a blockchain company, and release a blockchain-based product named OneThing Cloud. OneThing Cloud users get LinkToken(one kind of virtual token) for contributing their bandwidth to the Xunlei's Content Delivery Network.\n\nXunlei Ltd. announced that its board of directors has appointed Mr. Lei Chen, who is a former Tencent cloud computing unit leader, as its Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Director of the Board on June 29, 2017. Mr. Sean Zou, founder of the Company, resigned as Chief Executive Officer and continues to serve as the Chairman of the Board, with specific focus on Xunlei's growth strategy and initiatives related to products and technological innovation in cloud computing including AI, as well as strategic investments.\n\nThe Xunlei download manager, generally called Xunlei, is the flagship product of Xunlei Corporation and other desktop software. Xunlei is the most popular download software in China. Since 2017, StellarCloud, OneThing Cloud and ThunderChain have become important products of the corporation.\n\nThrough Xunlei, users can access a large portion of the files available on the Internet. Xunlei uses a technology called P2SP to speed up download. Features in Xunlei includes a built-in browser, changeable skins, cloud storage, \"offline\" downloading, hi-speed downloading (only available for members), email service and more. According to iResearch's report, as of March 2014, the cloud accelerates monthly active users of Xunlei reach 142 million(including approximately 5.2 million paid member), and has a market share of 81.4% in the cloud accelerated products and services market in China.\n\nXunlei is accompanied by a family of products including , , , and . As adware, Xunlei products feature banner advertisements, which can be disabled if logged in as a vip user.\n\nNebula() CDN is a CDN product which launched by Shenzhen Onething Technologies Co., Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Xunlei, in June 2015. Different from traditional CDN, Nebula CDN make use of idle bandwidth that share by users. In order to participate in this plan, users can buy a network device(ZhuanQianBao or OneThing Cloud) from Xunlei. In return, Xunlei gives the user virtual token as a reward. As the civil broadband prices far below the broadband prices for enterprises in China, Nebula CDN's enterprise-side prices lower than its competitors. The business customers of Nebula CDN include Xiaomi, iQiyi, Momo, Insta360, Bilibili and Xunlei itself. In August 2017, Xunlei announced they received an official license of CDN operating from Ministry of industry and information industry of China.\n\nStellarCloud(Chinese:星域云) is a shared cloud computing platform which expands Xunlei's existing Content Delivery Network (CDN) services to Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), offering Edge Computing, Function Computing and Shared CDN (SCDN) solutions. StellarCloud is created to help companies in their transition to cloud, including content delivery, live streaming, data storage and artificial intelligence (AI). Supported by over 1.5 million computing nodes, StellarCloud can offer as much as 30T bandwidth capacity and 1500 PB storage capacity.\n\nOneThingCloud(Chinese: 玩客云), a private cloud specifically designed for people who pursue the digital entertainment life with high quality, provides people with quick download, instant storage and removing, file management, remote control, multimedia entertainment and other functions. . \n\nIn April 2018, Xunlei launched ThunderChain (Chinese: 迅雷链), a high-performance blockchain platform, which can concurrently conduct millions of transactions per second (TPS). Based on Xunlei’s proprietary homogeneous multichain framework, ThunderChain is designed to realize confirmation and interaction among homogeneous chains and enable multiple transactions to be executed on different chains in parallel. An optimized practical byzantine fault tolerance (PBFT) is adopted by ThunderChain as its consensus model which results in low latency and makes it possible to generate one block per second. PBFT, as a consistency algorithm, is also able to avoid soft fork. ThunderChain supports smart contracts written in solidity language and is compatible with Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), making it easy to migrate applications from other blockchain platforms. \n\nThunderChain File System (TCFS), based on Xunlei’s proprietary distributed technology and millions of shared computing nodes, is a distributed file system for data storage and authorized distribution. It is built specifically for blockchain platforms including ThunderChain and other platforms. Blockchain developers and enterprises can build decentralized applications (DApps) with distributed data storage and integration, possessing the improved capabilities in openness, transparency, non-temper ability, traceability, reliability, security and encryption, mass storage and authorization.\n\nXunlei Kankan, also known as Kankan, is a video-on-demand service with a web interface as well as a client application. Xunlei Kankan is also available on mobile platforms including Android and iOS (including iPhone and Kankan HD for iPad). In 2015, Xunlei sold its entire stake in Xunlei Kankan to Beijing Nesound International Media Corp., Ltd. for a total consideration of RMB130 million. \n\nIn addition to the above products, the company also produces software such as a media player, a game accelerator, a live streaming video platform and online games.\n\nXunlei Building, the new headquarters building of Xunlei, is under construction and expected to be completed in 2020. Xunlei Building is located in Shenzhen Nanshan District, adjacent to Shenzhen Metro Line 1 and Line 2. The building has 30 floors, and the total construction area of the building is about 65,000 square meters.\n\nLinkToken is one kind of virtual token issued by Xunlei, and this token must be obtained through the sharing of user's network bandwidth, storage space or other resources. Xunlei said this token can be used to pay for network acceleration services, cloud storage services and other internet content. The company explained that the digital token would allow transparent bookkeeping for the computing resources that users share on the company's cloud platform. \nOn account of the prohibition of virtual currency trading and ICO in China, Xunlei declare that LinkToken does not constitute an ICO and it cannot be purchased or traded in cash, and the company has issued lawyer's letters to third-party trading platforms, requiring them to stop LinkToken trading activities. Nevertheless, the trading price of the token still rose 30 times in a month on some unofficial trading platforms, and some critics assert that the token is too speculative and may face some regulatory risks.\n\nOn 17 September 2018, Xunlei entered into a strategic partnership with Newland Hi-Tech Group Co., Ltd. In connection with the Strategic Partnership, Xunlei also entered into a series of transactions with Beijing LinkChain Co., Ltd., an associated company of Newland, to transfer the exclusive right to operate LinkToken program within mainland China, including without limitation, the formulation, amendment and execution of the rules governing the rewarding of LinkToken to users, LinkToken Pocket and the LinkToken Mall, and the related assets and liabilities to Beijing LinkChain (the “Transfer”). Upon the completion of this Transfer, Xunlei will cease operating the LinkToken program within mainland China. This Transfer will allow Xunlei to put more focus on research and development of the underlying blockchain technology and infrastructure, such as ThunderChain and ThunderChain File System (TCFS). \n\nXunlei is different from P2P tools in that it does not support active file sharing. While copyright advocates view Xunlei as a P2P tool that facilitates copyright violation, P2P advocates criticize Xunlei as a leech with much more downloading than uploading. Also it is often observed that Xunlei prioritizes file sharing with Xunlei users rather than other client users. Many pure P2P tools have blocked Xunlei, although this trend weakened after Xunlei began balancing the number of downloads and uploads. \n\nXunlei sets up its own storage servers to backup the files which are not active or shared any longer. This feature is named as High-Speed Channel and allows Xunlei users retrieve data faster than others. But only paying users have access to these servers and download files.\n\n\n"}
