{"id": "50488967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50488967", "title": "/r/science", "text": "/r/science\n\n/r/science, formally dubbed the New Reddit Journal of Science, is an Internet forum on Reddit where the community of participants discuss science topics. A popular feature of the forum is \"Ask me Anything\" (AMA) public discussions. As of 2014, /r/science attracted 30,000-100,000 visitors per day, making it the largest community-managed science forum and an attractive place to host discussions.\n\nNathan Allen is an American chemist. While working as a chemist at Dow Chemical Company, Allen began to imagine that scientists could use Reddit's \"ask me anything\" (AMA) interview format to create discussions between scientists and the public. Allen became a forum moderator there and has since been prominent in guiding the culture of the community there and as a spokesperson for the forum.\n\nAs of 2014, /r/science attracted 30,000–100,000 visitors per day, making it the largest community-managed science forum and an attractive place to host discussions. In January 2014 Allen began the /r/science AMA series with the goal of raising the visibility of scientists who are producing groundbreaking work in their fields but who are not well known outside of their fields. Outgoing links posted in the forum must go to peer-reviewed science articles published within the last six months.\n\nThe discussion series was instantly a success, and established the world's largest two-way discussion between scientists and the public. Allen does most of the organization for the talks, including soliciting scientists to participate and training them to communicate in reddit's discussion format.\n\n/r/science has an ongoing content partnership with PLOS. As an academic journal, PLOS invites authors who are publishing scientific papers to publicly present their work in /r/science and to participate in community \"ask me anything\" discussions in the forum at scheduled times.\n\nEditorial decisions in /r/science are made by the moderators who themselves follow rules that they present for the forum. If new rules are introduced then those are discussed with the community of readers. Rules for /r/science include guidance that contributors keep discussion on-topic and thoughtful.\n\nAllen led the decision to ban discussion in /r/science which gives credibility to climate change denial as a scientific concept. Commentators from \"National Geographic\", \"The New American\", ThinkProgress, and other media outlets discussed this editorial decision.\n\n"}
{"id": "7869674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7869674", "title": "Alice B. Woodward", "text": "Alice B. Woodward\n\nAlice Bolingbroke Woodward (1862–1951), an English illustrator, was born on 3 October 1862 in Chelsea, London. She was one of the most prolific illustrators of the turn of the 20th century and is known mainly for her work in children's literature, and secondarily for her scientific illustrations. Her father Henry Woodward, was an eminent scientist and the Keeper of Geology at the Natural History Museum in London.\n\nAs a child, Alice was educated at home by governesses, along with her four sisters and two brothers (she was the fourth of seven). From a young age the children were encouraged to draw, with all of the sisters eventually becoming artists and all of the brothers becoming scientists. By her late teens, Alice was skilled enough to illustrate for her father's lectures and for the papers of his colleagues. \n\nThis allowed her to earn enough money to begin her studies at South Kensington School of Art, and later at the Westminster School of Art followed thereafter by the Académie Julian in Paris. She took lessons in illustration from Joseph Pennell and Maurice Greiffenhagen and her connection with Pennell led to commissions from J. M. Dent and Macmillan and Company to illustrate children's books. She also continued to illustrate for scientific work throughout her career. Alice Woodward died in 1951.\n\nHer sister, Gertrude Mary Woodward, also worked in anatomical lithography, and was a lifelong friend of Beatrix Potter.\n\nBetween 1896 and 1900, she worked for the Glasgow publishing house Blackie and Son Limited, illustrating a series of children's books including \"To Tell the King the Sky is Falling\", \"Adventures in Toyland\", and \"Red Apple and Silver Bells\", as well as contributing to annuals and school primers through the 1920s. She succeeded Aubrey Beardsley as illustrator of W.C. Jerrold's \"Bon-Mots of the Eighteenth Century\", and then his \"Bon-Mots of the Nineteenth Century\". From 1907 on her main publisher was George Bell & Sons for whom she illustrated \"The Peter Pan Picture Book\" written by Daniel O'Connor, creating 28 coloured plates.\n\nShe illustrated the stories of two Gilbert and Sullivan operas, Lewis Carroll's \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" and Anna Sewell's classic \"Black Beauty\". Amongst the last of her books was a volume of \"Myths and Legends of the Australian Aboriginals\" which she illustrated in 1930 at the age of 68. Woodward also exhibited paintings (of scenes in Normandy and Norfolk) and designs for process reproduction at the 91 Art Club, a Chelsea club for women artists. Her work has appeared in over 80 publications including dinosaur reconstructions for the \"Illustrated London News\".\n\nTo differentiate between her two different kinds of work, she signed all of her illustrations with a butterfly monogram, while in her scientific work she simply wrote her name. \n\nHer scientific work was known for its accuracy and precision, a necessity in technical illustration. Her drawings were also always lifelike, whether it was a drawing of a specimen or a reconstruction of a prehistoric animal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=674", "title": "Anatomy", "text": "Anatomy\n\nAnatomy (Greek anatomē, \"dissection\") is the branch of biology concerned with the study of the structure of organisms and their parts. Anatomy is a branch of natural science which deals with the structural organization of living things. It is an old science, having its beginnings in prehistoric times. Anatomy is inherently tied to developmental biology, embryology, comparative anatomy, evolutionary biology, and phylogeny, as these are the processes by which anatomy is generated over immediate (embryology) and long (evolution) timescales. Anatomy and physiology, which study (respectively) the structure and function of organisms and their parts, make a natural pair of related disciplines, and they are often studied together. Human anatomy is one of the essential basic sciences that are applied in medicine.\n\nThe discipline of anatomy is divided into macroscopic and microscopic anatomy. Macroscopic anatomy, or gross anatomy, is the examination of an animal's body parts using unaided eyesight. Gross anatomy also includes the branch of superficial anatomy. Microscopic anatomy involves the use of optical instruments in the study of the tissues of various structures, known as histology, and also in the study of cells.\n\nThe history of anatomy is characterized by a progressive understanding of the functions of the organs and structures of the human body. Methods have also improved dramatically, advancing from the examination of animals by dissection of carcasses and cadavers (corpses) to 20th century medical imaging techniques including X-ray, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance imaging.\n\nDerived from the Greek \"anatomē\" \"dissection\" (from \"anatémnō\" \"I cut up, cut open\" from ἀνά \"aná\" \"up\", and τέμνω \"témnō\" \"I cut\"), anatomy is the scientific study of the structure of organisms including their systems, organs and tissues. It includes the appearance and position of the various parts, the materials from which they are composed, their locations and their relationships with other parts. Anatomy is quite distinct from physiology and biochemistry, which deal respectively with the functions of those parts and the chemical processes involved. For example, an anatomist is concerned with the shape, size, position, structure, blood supply and innervation of an organ such as the liver; while a physiologist is interested in the production of bile, the role of the liver in nutrition and the regulation of bodily functions.\n\nThe discipline of anatomy can be subdivided into a number of branches including gross or macroscopic anatomy and microscopic anatomy. Gross anatomy is the study of structures large enough to be seen with the naked eye, and also includes superficial anatomy or surface anatomy, the study by sight of the external body features. Microscopic anatomy is the study of structures on a microscopic scale, along with histology (the study of tissues), and embryology (the study of an organism in its immature condition).\n\nAnatomy can be studied using both invasive and non-invasive methods with the goal of obtaining information about the structure and organization of organs and systems. Methods used include dissection, in which a body is opened and its organs studied, and endoscopy, in which a video camera-equipped instrument is inserted through a small incision in the body wall and used to explore the internal organs and other structures. Angiography using X-rays or magnetic resonance angiography are methods to visualize blood vessels.\n\nThe term \"anatomy\" is commonly taken to refer to human anatomy. However, substantially the same structures and tissues are found throughout the rest of the animal kingdom and the term also includes the anatomy of other animals. The term \"zootomy\" is also sometimes used to specifically refer to non-human animals. The structure and tissues of plants are of a dissimilar nature and they are studied in plant anatomy.\n\nThe kingdom Animalia contains multicellular organisms that are heterotrophic and motile (although some have secondarily adopted a sessile lifestyle). Most animals have bodies differentiated into separate tissues and these animals are also known as eumetazoans. They have an internal digestive chamber, with one or two openings; the gametes are produced in multicellular sex organs, and the zygotes include a blastula stage in their embryonic development. Metazoans do not include the sponges, which have undifferentiated cells.\n\nUnlike plant cells, animal cells have neither a cell wall nor chloroplasts. Vacuoles, when present, are more in number and much smaller than those in the plant cell. The body tissues are composed of numerous types of cell, including those found in muscles, nerves and skin. Each typically has a cell membrane formed of phospholipids, cytoplasm and a nucleus. All of the different cells of an animal are derived from the embryonic germ layers. Those simpler invertebrates which are formed from two germ layers of ectoderm and endoderm are called diploblastic and the more developed animals whose structures and organs are formed from three germ layers are called triploblastic. All of a triploblastic animal's tissues and organs are derived from the three germ layers of the embryo, the ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm.\n\nAnimal tissues can be grouped into four basic types: connective, epithelial, muscle and nervous tissue.\nConnective tissues are fibrous and made up of cells scattered among inorganic material called the extracellular matrix. Connective tissue gives shape to organs and holds them in place. The main types are loose connective tissue, adipose tissue, fibrous connective tissue, cartilage and bone. The extracellular matrix contains proteins, the chief and most abundant of which is collagen. Collagen plays a major part in organizing and maintaining tissues. The matrix can be modified to form a skeleton to support or protect the body. An exoskeleton is a thickened, rigid cuticle which is stiffened by mineralization, as in crustaceans or by the cross-linking of its proteins as in insects. An endoskeleton is internal and present in all developed animals, as well as in many of those less developed.\n\nEpithelial tissue is composed of closely packed cells, bound to each other by cell adhesion molecules, with little intercellular space. Epithelial cells can be squamous (flat), cuboidal or columnar and rest on a basal lamina, the upper layer of the basement membrane, the lower layer is the reticular lamina lying next to the connective tissue in the extracellular matrix secreted by the epithelial cells. There are many different types of epithelium, modified to suit a particular function. In the respiratory tract there is a type of ciliated epithelial lining; in the small intestine there are microvilli on the epithelial lining and in the large intestine there are intestinal villi. Skin consists of an outer layer of keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that covers the exterior of the vertebrate body. Keratinocytes make up to 95% of the cells in the skin. The epithelial cells on the external surface of the body typically secrete an extracellular matrix in the form of a cuticle. In simple animals this may just be a coat of glycoproteins. In more advanced animals, many glands are formed of epithelial cells.\n\nMuscle cells (myocytes) form the active contractile tissue of the body. Muscle tissue functions to produce force and cause motion, either locomotion or movement within internal organs. Muscle is formed of contractile filaments and is separated into three main types; smooth muscle, skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle. Smooth muscle has no striations when examined microscopically. It contracts slowly but maintains contractibility over a wide range of stretch lengths. It is found in such organs as sea anemone tentacles and the body wall of sea cucumbers. Skeletal muscle contracts rapidly but has a limited range of extension. It is found in the movement of appendages and jaws. Obliquely striated muscle is intermediate between the other two. The filaments are staggered and this is the type of muscle found in earthworms that can extend slowly or make rapid contractions. In higher animals striated muscles occur in bundles attached to bone to provide movement and are often arranged in antagonistic sets. Smooth muscle is found in the walls of the uterus, bladder, intestines, stomach, oesophagus, respiratory airways, and blood vessels. Cardiac muscle is found only in the heart, allowing it to contract and pump blood round the body.\n\nNervous tissue is composed of many nerve cells known as neurons which transmit information. In some slow-moving radially symmetrical marine animals such as ctenophores and cnidarians (including sea anemones and jellyfish), the nerves form a nerve net, but in most animals they are organized longitudinally into bundles. In simple animals, receptor neurons in the body wall cause a local reaction to a stimulus. In more complex animals, specialized receptor cells such as chemoreceptors and photoreceptors are found in groups and send messages along neural networks to other parts of the organism. Neurons can be connected together in ganglia. In higher animals, specialized receptors are the basis of sense organs and there is a central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) and a peripheral nervous system. The latter consists of sensory nerves that transmit information from sense organs and motor nerves that influence target organs. The peripheral nervous system is divided into the somatic nervous system which conveys sensation and controls voluntary muscle, and the autonomic nervous system which involuntarily controls smooth muscle, certain glands and internal organs, including the stomach.\n\nAll vertebrates have a similar basic body plan and at some point in their lives, mostly in the embryonic stage, share the major chordate characteristics; a stiffening rod, the notochord; a dorsal hollow tube of nervous material, the neural tube; pharyngeal arches; and a tail posterior to the anus. The spinal cord is protected by the vertebral column and is above the notochord and the gastrointestinal tract is below it. Nervous tissue is derived from the ectoderm, connective tissues are derived from mesoderm, and gut is derived from the endoderm. At the posterior end is a tail which continues the spinal cord and vertebrae but not the gut. The mouth is found at the anterior end of the animal, and the anus at the base of the tail. The defining characteristic of a vertebrate is the vertebral column, formed in the development of the segmented series of vertebrae. In most vertebrates the notochord becomes the nucleus pulposus of the intervertebral discs. However, a few vertebrates, such as the sturgeon and the coelacanth retain the notochord into adulthood. Jawed vertebrates are typified by paired appendages, fins or legs, which may be secondarily lost. The limbs of vertebrates are considered to be homologous because the same underlying skeletal structure was inherited from their last common ancestor. This is one of the arguments put forward by Charles Darwin to support his theory of evolution.\n\nThe body of a fish is divided into a head, trunk and tail, although the divisions between the three are not always externally visible. The skeleton, which forms the support structure inside the fish, is either made of cartilage, in cartilaginous fish, or bone in bony fish. The main skeletal element is the vertebral column, composed of articulating vertebrae which are lightweight yet strong. The ribs attach to the spine and there are no limbs or limb girdles. The main external features of the fish, the fins, are composed of either bony or soft spines called rays, which with the exception of the caudal fins, have no direct connection with the spine. They are supported by the muscles which compose the main part of the trunk. The heart has two chambers and pumps the blood through the respiratory surfaces of the gills and on round the body in a single circulatory loop. The eyes are adapted for seeing underwater and have only local vision. There is an inner ear but no external or middle ear. Low frequency vibrations are detected by the lateral line system of sense organs that run along the length of the sides of fish, and these respond to nearby movements and to changes in water pressure.\n\nSharks and rays are basal fish with numerous primitive anatomical features similar to those of ancient fish, including skeletons composed of cartilage. Their bodies tend to be dorso-ventrally flattened, they usually have five pairs of gill slits and a large mouth set on the underside of the head. The dermis is covered with separate dermal placoid scales. They have a cloaca into which the urinary and genital passages open, but not a swim bladder. Cartilaginous fish produce a small number of large, yolky eggs. Some species are ovoviviparous and the young develop internally but others are oviparous and the larvae develop externally in egg cases.\n\nThe bony fish lineage shows more derived anatomical traits, often with major evolutionary changes from the features of ancient fish. They have a bony skeleton, are generally laterally flattened, have five pairs of gills protected by an operculum, and a mouth at or near the tip of the snout. The dermis is covered with overlapping scales. Bony fish have a swim bladder which helps them maintain a constant depth in the water column, but not a cloaca. They mostly spawn a large number of small eggs with little yolk which they broadcast into the water column.\n\nAmphibians are a class of animals comprising frogs, salamanders and caecilians. They are tetrapods, but the caecilians and a few species of salamander have either no limbs or their limbs are much reduced in size. Their main bones are hollow and lightweight and are fully ossified and the vertebrae interlock with each other and have articular processes. Their ribs are usually short and may be fused to the vertebrae. Their skulls are mostly broad and short, and are often incompletely ossified. Their skin contains little keratin and lacks scales, but contains many mucous glands and in some species, poison glands. The hearts of amphibians have three chambers, two atria and one ventricle. They have a urinary bladder and nitrogenous waste products are excreted primarily as urea. Amphibians breathe by means of buccal pumping, a pump action in which air is first drawn into the buccopharyngeal region through the nostrils. These are then closed and the air is forced into the lungs by contraction of the throat. They supplement this with gas exchange through the skin which needs to be kept moist.\n\nIn frogs the pelvic girdle is robust and the hind legs are much longer and stronger than the forelimbs. The feet have four or five digits and the toes are often webbed for swimming or have suction pads for climbing. Frogs have large eyes and no tail. Salamanders resemble lizards in appearance; their short legs project sideways, the belly is close to or in contact with the ground and they have a long tail. Caecilians superficially resemble earthworms and are limbless. They burrow by means of zones of muscle contractions which move along the body and they swim by undulating their body from side to side.\n\nReptiles are a class of animals comprising turtles, tuataras, lizards, snakes and crocodiles. They are tetrapods, but the snakes and a few species of lizard either have no limbs or their limbs are much reduced in size. Their bones are better ossified and their skeletons stronger than those of amphibians. The teeth are conical and mostly uniform in size. The surface cells of the epidermis are modified into horny scales which create a waterproof layer. Reptiles are unable to use their skin for respiration as do amphibians and have a more efficient respiratory system drawing air into their lungs by expanding their chest walls. The heart resembles that of the amphibian but there is a septum which more completely separates the oxygenated and deoxygenated bloodstreams. The reproductive system has evolved for internal fertilization, with a copulatory organ present in most species. The eggs are surrounded by amniotic membranes which prevents them from drying out and are laid on land, or develop internally in some species. The bladder is small as nitrogenous waste is excreted as uric acid.\n\nTurtles are notable for their protective shells. They have an inflexible trunk encased in a horny carapace above and a plastron below. These are formed from bony plates embedded in the dermis which are overlain by horny ones and are partially fused with the ribs and spine. The neck is long and flexible and the head and the legs can be drawn back inside the shell. Turtles are vegetarians and the typical reptile teeth have been replaced by sharp, horny plates. In aquatic species, the front legs are modified into flippers.\n\nTuataras superficially resemble lizards but the lineages diverged in the Triassic period. There is one living species, \"Sphenodon punctatus\". The skull has two openings (fenestrae) on either side and the jaw is rigidly attached to the skull. There is one row of teeth in the lower jaw and this fits between the two rows in the upper jaw when the animal chews. The teeth are merely projections of bony material from the jaw and eventually wear down. The brain and heart are more primitive than those of other reptiles, and the lungs have a single chamber and lack bronchi. The tuatara has a well-developed parietal eye on its forehead.\n\nLizards have skulls with only one fenestra on each side, the lower bar of bone below the second fenestra having been lost. This results in the jaws being less rigidly attached which allows the mouth to open wider. Lizards are mostly quadrupeds, with the trunk held off the ground by short, sideways-facing legs, but a few species have no limbs and resemble snakes. Lizards have moveable eyelids, eardrums are present and some species have a central parietal eye.\n\nSnakes are closely related to lizards, having branched off from a common ancestral lineage during the Cretaceous period, and they share many of the same features. The skeleton consists of a skull, a hyoid bone, spine and ribs though a few species retain a vestige of the pelvis and rear limbs in the form of pelvic spurs. The bar under the second fenestra has also been lost and the jaws have extreme flexibility allowing the snake to swallow its prey whole. Snakes lack moveable eyelids, the eyes being covered by transparent \"spectacle\" scales. They do not have eardrums but can detect ground vibrations through the bones of their skull. Their forked tongues are used as organs of taste and smell and some species have sensory pits on their heads enabling them to locate warm-blooded prey.\n\nCrocodilians are large, low-slung aquatic reptiles with long snouts and large numbers of teeth. The head and trunk are dorso-ventrally flattened and the tail is laterally compressed. It undulates from side to side to force the animal through the water when swimming. The tough keratinized scales provide body armour and some are fused to the skull. The nostrils, eyes and ears are elevated above the top of the flat head enabling them to remain above the surface of the water when the animal is floating. Valves seal the nostrils and ears when it is submerged. Unlike other reptiles, crocodilians have hearts with four chambers allowing complete separation of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood.\n\nBirds are tetrapods but though their hind limbs are used for walking or hopping, their front limbs are wings covered with feathers and adapted for flight. Birds are endothermic, have a high metabolic rate, a light skeletal system and powerful muscles. The long bones are thin, hollow and very light. Air sac extensions from the lungs occupy the centre of some bones. The sternum is wide and usually has a keel and the caudal vertebrae are fused. There are no teeth and the narrow jaws are adapted into a horn-covered beak. The eyes are relatively large, particularly in nocturnal species such as owls. They face forwards in predators and sideways in ducks.\n\nThe feathers are outgrowths of the epidermis and are found in localized bands from where they fan out over the skin. Large flight feathers are found on the wings and tail, contour feathers cover the bird's surface and fine down occurs on young birds and under the contour feathers of water birds. The only cutaneous gland is the single uropygial gland near the base of the tail. This produces an oily secretion that waterproofs the feathers when the bird preens. There are scales on the legs, feet and claws on the tips of the toes.\n\nMammals are a diverse class of animals, mostly terrestrial but some are aquatic and others have evolved flapping or gliding flight. They mostly have four limbs but some aquatic mammals have no limbs or limbs modified into fins and the forelimbs of bats are modified into wings. The legs of most mammals are situated below the trunk, which is held well clear of the ground. The bones of mammals are well ossified and their teeth, which are usually differentiated, are coated in a layer of prismatic enamel. The teeth are shed once (milk teeth) during the animal's lifetime or not at all, as is the case in cetaceans. Mammals have three bones in the middle ear and a cochlea in the inner ear. They are clothed in hair and their skin contains glands which secrete sweat. Some of these glands are specialized as mammary glands, producing milk to feed the young. Mammals breathe with lungs and have a muscular diaphragm separating the thorax from the abdomen which helps them draw air into the lungs. The mammalian heart has four chambers and oxygenated and deoxygenated blood are kept entirely separate. Nitrogenous waste is excreted primarily as urea.\n\nMammals are amniotes, and most are viviparous, giving birth to live young. The exception to this are the egg-laying monotremes, the platypus and the echidnas of Australia. Most other mammals have a placenta through which the developing foetus obtains nourishment, but in marsupials, the foetal stage is very short and the immature young is born and finds its way to its mother's pouch where it latches on to a nipple and completes its development.\n\nHumans have the overall body plan of a mammal. Humans have a head, neck, trunk (which includes the thorax and abdomen), two arms and hands, and two legs and feet.\n\nGenerally, students of certain biological sciences, paramedics, prosthetists and orthotists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, nurses, podiatrists, and medical students learn gross anatomy and microscopic anatomy from anatomical models, skeletons, textbooks, diagrams, photographs, lectures and tutorials, and in addition, medical students generally also learn gross anatomy through practical experience of dissection and inspection of cadavers. The study of microscopic anatomy (or histology) can be aided by practical experience examining histological preparations (or slides) under a microscope.\nHuman anatomy, physiology and biochemistry are complementary basic medical sciences, which are generally taught to medical students in their first year at medical school. Human anatomy can be taught regionally or systemically; that is, respectively, studying anatomy by bodily regions such as the head and chest, or studying by specific systems, such as the nervous or respiratory systems. The major anatomy textbook, Gray's Anatomy, has been reorganized from a systems format to a regional format, in line with modern teaching methods. A thorough working knowledge of anatomy is required by physicians, especially surgeons and doctors working in some diagnostic specialties, such as histopathology and radiology.\nAcademic anatomists are usually employed by universities, medical schools or teaching hospitals. They are often involved in teaching anatomy, and research into certain systems, organs, tissues or cells.\n\nInvertebrates constitute a vast array of living organisms ranging from the simplest unicellular eukaryotes such as \"Paramecium\" to such complex multicellular animals as the octopus, lobster and dragonfly. They constitute about 95% of the animal species. By definition, none of these creatures has a backbone. The cells of single-cell protozoans have the same basic structure as those of multicellular animals but some parts are specialized into the equivalent of tissues and organs. Locomotion is often provided by cilia or flagella or may proceed via the advance of pseudopodia, food may be gathered by phagocytosis, energy needs may be supplied by photosynthesis and the cell may be supported by an endoskeleton or an exoskeleton. Some protozoans can form multicellular colonies.\n\nMetazoans are multicellular organism, different groups of cells of which have separate functions. The most basic types of metazoan tissues are epithelium and connective tissue, both of which are present in nearly all invertebrates. The outer surface of the epidermis is normally formed of epithelial cells and secretes an extracellular matrix which provides support to the organism. An endoskeleton derived from the mesoderm is present in echinoderms, sponges and some cephalopods. Exoskeletons are derived from the epidermis and is composed of chitin in arthropods (insects, spiders, ticks, shrimps, crabs, lobsters). Calcium carbonate constitutes the shells of molluscs, brachiopods and some tube-building polychaete worms and silica forms the exoskeleton of the microscopic diatoms and radiolaria. Other invertebrates may have no rigid structures but the epidermis may secrete a variety of surface coatings such as the pinacoderm of sponges, the gelatinous cuticle of cnidarians (polyps, sea anemones, jellyfish) and the collagenous cuticle of annelids. The outer epithelial layer may include cells of several types including sensory cells, gland cells and stinging cells. There may also be protrusions such as microvilli, cilia, bristles, spines and tubercles.\n\nMarcello Malpighi, the father of microscopical anatomy, discovered that plants had tubules similar to those he saw in insects like the silk worm. He observed that when a ring-like portion of bark was removed on a trunk a swelling occurred in the tissues above the ring, and he unmistakably interpreted this as growth stimulated by food coming down from the leaves, and being captured above the ring.\n\nArthropods comprise the largest phylum in the animal kingdom with over a million known invertebrate species.\n\nInsects possess segmented bodies supported by a hard-jointed outer covering, the exoskeleton, made mostly of chitin. The segments of the body are organized into three distinct parts, a head, a thorax and an abdomen. The head typically bears a pair of sensory antennae, a pair of compound eyes, one to three simple eyes (ocelli) and three sets of modified appendages that form the mouthparts. The thorax has three pairs of segmented legs, one pair each for the three segments that compose the thorax and one or two pairs of wings. The abdomen is composed of eleven segments, some of which may be fused and houses the digestive, respiratory, excretory and reproductive systems. There is considerable variation between species and many adaptations to the body parts, especially wings, legs, antennae and mouthparts.\n\nSpiders a class of arachnids have four pairs of legs; a body of two segments—a cephalothorax and an abdomen. Spiders have no wings and no antennae. They have mouthparts called chelicerae which are often connected to venom glands as most spiders are venomous. They have a second pair of appendages called pedipalps attached to the cephalothorax. These have similar segmentation to the legs and function as taste and smell organs. At the end of each male pedipalp is a spoon-shaped cymbium that acts to support the copulatory organ.\n\n\nIn 1600 BCE, the Edwin Smith Papyrus, an Ancient Egyptian medical text, described the heart, its vessels, liver, spleen, kidneys, hypothalamus, uterus and bladder, and showed the blood vessels diverging from the heart. The Ebers Papyrus (c. 1550 BCE) features a \"treatise on the heart\", with vessels carrying all the body's fluids to or from every member of the body.\n\nAncient Greek anatomy and physiology underwent great changes and advances throughout the early medieval world. Over time, this medical practice expanded by a continually developing understanding of the functions of organs and structures in the body. Phenomenal anatomical observations of the human body were made, which have contributed towards the understanding of the brain, eye, liver, reproductive organs and the nervous system.\n\nThe Hellenistic Egyptian city of Alexandria was the stepping-stone for Greek anatomy and physiology. Alexandria not only housed the biggest library for medical records and books of the liberal arts in the world during the time of the Greeks, but was also home to many medical practitioners and philosophers. Great patronage of the arts and sciences from the Ptolemy rulers helped raise Alexandria up, further rivalling the cultural and scientific achievements of other Greek states.\n\nSome of the most striking advances in early anatomy and physiology took place in Hellenistic Alexandria. Two of the most famous anatomists and physiologists of the third century were Herophilus and Erasistratus. These two physicians helped pioneer human dissection for medical research. They also conducted vivisections on the cadavers of condemned criminals, which was considered taboo until the Renaissance – Herophilus was recognized as the first person to perform systematic dissections. Herophilus became known for his anatomical works making impressing contributions to many branches of anatomy and many other aspects of medicine. Some of the works included classifying the system of the pulse, the discovery that human arteries had thicker walls then veins, and that the atria were parts of the heart. Herophilus's knowledge of the human body has provided vital input towards understanding the brain, eye, liver, reproductive organs and nervous system, and characterizing the course of disease. Erasistratus accurately described the structure of the brain, including the cavities and membranes, and made a distinction between its cerebrum and cerebellum During his study in Alexandria, Erasistratus was particularly concerned with studies of the circulatory and nervous systems. He was able to distinguish the sensory and the motor nerves in the human body and believed that air entered the lungs and heart, which was then carried throughout the body. His distinction between the arteries and veins – the arteries carrying the air through the body, while the veins carried the blood from the heart was a great anatomical discovery. Erasistratus was also responsible for naming and describing the function of the epiglottis and the valves of the heart, including the tricuspid. During the third century, Greek physicians were able to differentiate nerves from blood vessels and tendons and to realize that the nerves convey neural impulses. It was Herophilus who made the point that damage to motor nerves induced paralysis. Herophilus named the meninges and ventricles in the brain, appreciated the division between cerebellum and cerebrum and recognized that the brain was the \"seat of intellect\" and not a \"cooling chamber\" as propounded by Aristotle Herophilus is also credited with describing the optic, oculomotor, motor division of the trigeminal, facial, vestibulocochlear and hypoglossal nerves.\n\nGreat feats were made during the third century in both the digestive and reproductive systems. Herophilus was able to discover and describe not only the salivary glands, but the small intestine and liver. He showed that the uterus is a hollow organ and described the ovaries and uterine tubes. He recognized that spermatozoa were produced by the testes and was the first to identify the prostate gland.\n\nThe anatomy of the muscles and skeleton is described in the \"Hippocratic Corpus\", an Ancient Greek medical work written by unknown authors. Aristotle described vertebrate anatomy based on animal dissection. Praxagoras identified the difference between arteries and veins. Also in the 4th century BCE, Herophilos and Erasistratus produced more accurate anatomical descriptions based on vivisection of criminals in Alexandria during the Ptolemaic dynasty.\n\nIn the 2nd century, Galen of Pergamum, an anatomist, clinician, writer and philosopher, wrote the final and highly influential anatomy treatise of ancient times. He compiled existing knowledge and studied anatomy through dissection of animals. He was one of the first experimental physiologists through his vivisection experiments on animals. Galen's drawings, based mostly on dog anatomy, became effectively the only anatomical textbook for the next thousand years. His work was known to Renaissance doctors only through Islamic Golden Age medicine until it was translated from the Greek some time in the 15th century.\n\nAnatomy developed little from classical times until the sixteenth century; as the historian Marie Boas writes, \"Progress in anatomy before the sixteenth century is as mysteriously slow as its development after 1500 is startlingly rapid\". Between 1275 and 1326, the anatomists Mondino de Luzzi, Alessandro Achillini and Antonio Benivieni at Bologna carried out the first systematic human dissections since ancient times. Mondino's \"Anatomy\" of 1316 was the first textbook in the medieval rediscovery of human anatomy. It describes the body in the order followed in Mondino's dissections, starting with the abdomen, then the thorax, then the head and limbs. It was the standard anatomy textbook for the next century.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci (1452–1519) was trained in anatomy by Andrea del Verrocchio. He made use of his anatomical knowledge in his artwork, making many sketches of skeletal structures, muscles and organs of humans and other vertebrates that he dissected.\n\nAndreas Vesalius (1514–1564) (Latinized from Andries van Wezel), professor of anatomy at the University of Padua, is considered the founder of modern human anatomy. Originally from Brabant, Vesalius published the influential book \"De humani corporis fabrica\" (\"the structure of the human body\"), a large format book in seven volumes, in 1543. The accurate and intricately detailed illustrations, often in allegorical poses against Italianate landscapes, are thought to have been made by the artist Jan van Calcar, a pupil of Titian.\n\nIn England, anatomy was the subject of the first public lectures given in any science; these were given by the Company of Barbers and Surgeons in the 16th century, joined in 1583 by the Lumleian lectures in surgery at the Royal College of Physicians.\n\nIn the United States, medical schools began to be set up towards the end of the 18th century. Classes in anatomy needed a continual stream of cadavers for dissection and these were difficult to obtain. Philadelphia, Baltimore and New York were all renowned for body snatching activity as criminals raided graveyards at night, removing newly buried corpses from their coffins. A similar problem existed in Britain where demand for bodies became so great that grave-raiding and even anatomy murder were practised to obtain cadavers. Some graveyards were in consequence protected with watchtowers. The practice was halted in Britain by the Anatomy Act of 1832, while in the United States, similar legislation was enacted after the physician William S. Forbes of Jefferson Medical College was found guilty in 1882 of \"complicity with resurrectionists in the despoliation of graves in Lebanon Cemetery\".\n\nThe teaching of anatomy in Britain was transformed by Sir John Struthers, Regius Professor of Anatomy at the University of Aberdeen from 1863 to 1889. He was responsible for setting up the system of three years of \"pre-clinical\" academic teaching in the sciences underlying medicine, including especially anatomy. This system lasted until the reform of medical training in 1993 and 2003. As well as teaching, he collected many vertebrate skeletons for his museum of comparative anatomy, published over 70 research papers, and became famous for his public dissection of the Tay Whale. From 1822 the Royal College of Surgeons regulated the teaching of anatomy in medical schools. Medical museums provided examples in comparative anatomy, and were often used in teaching. Ignaz Semmelweis investigated puerperal fever and he discovered how it was caused. He noticed that the frequently fatal fever occurred more often in mothers examined by medical students than by midwives. The students went from the dissecting room to the hospital ward and examined women in childbirth. Semmelweis showed that when the trainees washed their hands in chlorinated lime before each clinical examination, the incidence of puerperal fever among the mothers could be reduced dramatically.\n\nBefore the modern medical era, the main means for studying the internal structures of the body were dissection of the dead and inspection, palpation and auscultation of the living. It was the advent of microscopy that opened up an understanding of the building blocks that constituted living tissues. Technical advances in the development of achromatic lenses increased the resolving power of the microscope and around 1839, Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann identified that cells were the fundamental unit of organization of all living things. Study of small structures involved passing light through them and the microtome was invented to provide sufficiently thin slices of tissue to examine. Staining techniques using artificial dyes were established to help distinguish between different types of tissue. Advances in the fields of histology and cytology began in the late 19th century along with advances in surgical techniques allowing for the painless and safe removal of biopsy specimens. The invention of the electron microscope brought a great advance in resolution power and allowed research into the ultrastructure of cells and the organelles and other structures within them. About the same time, in the 1950s, the use of X-ray diffraction for studying the crystal structures of proteins, nucleic acids and other biological molecules gave rise to a new field of molecular anatomy.\n\nEqually important advances have occurred in \"non-invasive\" techniques for examining the interior structures of the body. X-rays can be passed through the body and used in medical radiography and fluoroscopy to differentiate interior structures that have varying degrees of opaqueness. Magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography, and ultrasound imaging have all enabled examination of internal structures in unprecedented detail to a degree far beyond the imagination of earlier generations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30427871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30427871", "title": "Asafiev Glacier", "text": "Asafiev Glacier\n\nAsafiev Glacier () is a glacier that flows north-west into Schubert Inlet from the western side of the Walton Mountains, Alexander Island, Antarctica. It was named by the USSR Academy of Sciences in 1987 after Boris Asafiev, the Russian composer.\n\n"}
{"id": "50972055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50972055", "title": "August Ahrens", "text": "August Ahrens\n\nAugust Ahrens (1779, Walbeck – 28 November 1841, Hettstedt) was a German entomologist who specialised in Coleoptera.\n\nPartial list\n\n"}
{"id": "18025074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18025074", "title": "Basic formal ontology", "text": "Basic formal ontology\n\nBasic Formal Ontology (BFO) is a top level ontology developed by Barry Smith and his associates for the purposes of promoting interoperability among domain ontologies that are built in its terms through a process of downward population. The structure of BFO is based on a division of entities into two disjoint categories of continuant and occurrent, the former comprehending for example objects and spatial regions, the latter comprehending processes conceived as extended through (or as spanning) time. BFO thereby seeks to incorporate both three-dimensionalist and four-dimensionalist perspectives on reality within a single framework.\n\nBFO has been adopted as a foundational ontology by over 300 ontology projects, principally in the areas of biomedical ontology and security and defense (intelligence) ontology. An example application of BFO can be seen in the Ontology for Biomedical Investigations (OBI) and in the Open Biomedical Ontologies Foundry\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5116600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5116600", "title": "Bloom (test)", "text": "Bloom (test)\n\nBloom is a test to measure the strength of a gel or gelatin. The test was originally developed and patented in 1925 by Oscar T. Bloom. The test determines the weight in grams needed by a specified plunger (normally with a diameter of 0.5 inch) to depress the surface of the gel by 4 mm without breaking it at a specified temperature. The number of grams is called the Bloom value, and most gelatins are between 30 and 300 g Bloom. The higher a Bloom value, the higher the melting and gelling points of a gel, and the shorter its gelling times. This method is most often used on soft gels. To perform the Bloom test on gelatin, a 6.67% gelatin solution is kept for 17–18 hours at 10 °C prior to being tested.\n\nVarious gelatins are categorized as \"low Bloom\", \"medium Bloom\", or \"high Bloom\", but there are not universally defined specific values for these subranges. Gelatin is a biopolymer material composed of polypeptide chains of varying length. The longer the chain, the higher the Bloom number:\n"}
{"id": "19523044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19523044", "title": "Cathedral close", "text": "Cathedral close\n\nA cathedral close is the area immediately around a cathedral, sometimes extending for a hundred metres or more from the main cathedral building. In Europe in the Middle Ages, and often later, it was usually all the property of the cathedral and under the bishop or cathedral's legal jurisdiction rather than that of the city. It normally had gates which were locked at night or when there were disturbances in the city, hence the name. It usually included buildings housing diocesan offices, schools, free-standing chapels associated with the cathedral, and the palace of the bishop and other clergy houses associated with the cathedral. They sometimes but not necessarily are arranged in a sort of square around a courtyard, as in the close at Salisbury Cathedral. The German term is Domfreiheit.\n\nToday there are often residences of non-clerics, which may include official or prominent persons such as judges' houses. Until recent local government reforms many cathedral closes still functioned as separate administrative unit: St. David's cathedral close, in Pembrokeshire, counted as a separate civil parish from that of the adjacent village-city for some 50 years after the disestablishment in Wales. Others still have the secularised former residences of canons but no resident senior clergy. In other cities, such as Trier, property close to the cathedral is occupied by clergy.\n\nThe Barchester novels (Chronicles of Barsetshire) of Anthony Trollope are set largely in the cathedral close of the fictional town of Barchester.\n"}
{"id": "9591319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9591319", "title": "Charles C. Bradley", "text": "Charles C. Bradley\n\nCharles C. Bradley (1911 – May 18, 2002) was a professor in geology at the Montana State College. He received his bachelors, masters, and doctorate degrees from University of Wisconsin–Madison.\n\n"}
{"id": "4148868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4148868", "title": "Crash simulation", "text": "Crash simulation\n\nA crash simulation is a virtual recreation of a destructive crash test of a car or a highway guard rail system using a computer simulation in order to examine the level of safety of the car and its occupants. Crash simulations are used by automakers during computer-aided engineering (CAE) analysis for crashworthiness in the computer-aided design (CAD) process of modelling new cars. During a crash simulation, the kinetic energy, or energy of motion, that a vehicle has before the impact is transformed into deformation energy, mostly by plastic deformation (plasticity) of the car body material (Body in White), at the end of the impact.\n\nData obtained from a crash simulation indicate the capability of the car body or guard rail structure to protect the vehicle occupants during a collision (and also pedestrians hit by a car) against injury. Important results are the deformations (for example, steering wheel intrusions) of the occupant space (driver, passengers) and the decelerations (for example, head acceleration) felt by them, which must fall below threshold values fixed in legal car safety regulations. To model real crash tests, today's crash simulations include virtual models of crash test dummies and of passive safety devices (seat belts, airbags, shock absorbing dash boards, etc.). Guide rail tests evaluate vehicle deceleration and rollover potential, as well as penetration of the barrier by vehicles.\n\nIn the years 1970 attempts were made to simulate car crash events with non-linear spring-mass systems after calibration, which require as an input the results of physical destructive laboratory tests, needed to determine the mechanical crushing behavior of each spring component of the modeled system. \"First principle\" simulations like more elaborate finite element models, however, need only the definition of the structural geometry and the basic material properties (rheology of car body steel, glass, plastic parts, etc.) as an input to generate the numerical model.\n\nThe origins of industrial first principle computerized car crash simulation lie in military defense, outer space and civil nuclear power plant applications. Upon presentation of a simulation of the accidental crash of a military fighter plane into a nuclear power plant on May 30, 1978 by ESI Group in a meeting organized by the Verein Deutscher Ingenieure (VDI) in Stuttgart, car makers became alerted to the possibility of using this technology for the simulation of destructive car crash tests (Haug 1981).\nIn the following years, German car makers produced more complex crash simulation studies, simulating the crash behavior of individual car body components, component assemblies, and quarter and half car bodies in white (BIW). These experiments culminated in a joint project by the Forschungsgemeinschaft Automobil-Technik (FAT), a conglomeration of all seven German car makers (Audi, BMW, Ford, Mercedes-Benz, Opel, Porsche, and Volkswagen), which tested the applicability of two emerging commercial crash simulation codes. These simulation codes recreated a frontal impact of a full passenger car structure (Haug 1986) and they ran to completion on a computer overnight. Now that turn-around time between two consecutive job-submissions (computer runs) did not exceed one day, engineers were able to make efficient and progressive improvements of the crash behavior of the analyzed car body structure.\n\nCrash simulations are used to investigate the safety of the car occupants during impacts on the front end structure of the car in a \"head-on collision\" or \"frontal impact\", the lateral structure of the car in a “side collision” or “side impact”, the rear end structure of a car in a \"rear-end collision\" or “rear impact”, and the roof structure of the car when it overturns during a \"rollover\". Crash simulations can also be used to assess injury to pedestrians hit by a car.\n\nA crash simulation produces results without actual destructive testing of a new car model. This way, tests can be performed quickly and inexpensively in a computer, which permits optimization of the design before a real prototype of the car has been manufactured. Using a simulation, problems can be solved before spending time and money on an actual crash test. The great flexibility of printed output and graphical display enables designers to solve some problems that would have been nearly impossible without the help of a computer.\n\nLarge number of crash simulations use a method of analysis called the Finite Element Method. The complex problems are solved by dividing a surface into a large but still finite number of elements and determining the motion of these elements over very small periods of time. Another approach to crash simulations is performed by application of Macro Element Method. The difference between two mentioned above methodologies is that the structure in case of Macro Element Method consists of smaller number of elements. The calculation algorithm of structure deformation is based on experimental data rather than calculated from partial differential equations.\nPam-Crash started crash simulation and together with LS-DYNA is a software package which is widely used for application of Finite Element Method. This method allows detailed modeling of a structure, but the disadvantage lies in high processing unit requirements and calculation time. \nThe Visual Crash Studio uses Macro Element Methodology. In comparison with FEM it has some modeling and boundary condition limitations but its application does not require advanced computers and the calculation time is incomparably smaller. Two presented methods complement each other. Macro Element Method is useful at early stage of the structure design process while Finite Element Method performs well at its final stages.\n\nIn a typical crash simulation, the car body structure is analyzed using spatial discretization, that is, breaking up the continuous movement of the body in real time into smaller changes in position over small, discrete time steps. The discretization involves subdividing the surface of the constituent, thin, sheet metal parts into a large number (approaching one million in 2006) of quadrilateral or triangular regions, each of which spans the area between \"nodes\" to which its corners are fixed. Each element has mass, which is distributed as concentrated masses and as mass moments of inertia to its connecting nodes. Each node has 6 kinematic degrees of freedom, that is, one node can move in three linear directions under translation and can rotate about three independent axes. The spatial coordinates (\"x\"), displacement (\"u\"), velocity (\"v\"), and acceleration (\"a\") of each node is mostly expressed in a three-dimensional rectangular Cartesian coordinate system with axes \"X\",\"Y\", and \"Z\".\n\nIf the nodes move during a crash simulation, the connected elements move, stretch, and bend with their nodes, which causes them to impart forces and moments to their nodal connections. The forces and moments at the nodes correspond to the inertia forces and moments, caused by their translational (linear) and angular accelerations and to the forces and moments transmitted by the resistance of the structural material of the connected elements as they deform. Sometimes, additional external structural loads are applied, like gravity loads from the self weight of the parts, or added loads from external masses.\n\nThe forces and moments of all nodes are collected into a column vector (or column matrix), and the time dependent equations of motion (in dynamic equilibrium) can be written as follows.\nwhere vector formula_2 (mass times acceleration vector) collects the inertia forces at the nodes, formula_3 collects the external nodal loads, and formula_4 collects the internal resisting forces from the deformation of the material. \"M\" is a diagonal matrix of the nodal masses. Each vector (\"u\", \"v\", \"a\", \"F\", etc.) has dimension 6 times the total number of nodes in the crash model (about 6 million “degrees of freedom” for every 1 million \"nodes\" in 3-D thin shell finite element models).\n\nA crash simulation uses time discretization as well to separate the continuous changes in time into very small, usable segments. The dynamic equations of motion hold at all times during a crash simulation and must be integrated in time, \"t\", starting from an initial condition at time zero, which is just prior to the crash. According to the explicit finite difference time integration method used by most crash codes, the accelerations, velocities, and displacements of the body are related by the following equations.\nIn these equations the subscripts \"n\"±1/2, \"n\", \"n\"+1 denote past, present, and future times, \"t\", at half and full-time intervals with time steps formula_8 and formula_9, respectively.\n\nThe above system of linear equations is solved for the accelerations, formula_10, the velocities, formula_11, and the displacements, formula_12, at each discrete point in time, \"t\", during the crash duration. This solution is trivial, since the mass matrix is diagonal. The computer time is proportional to the number of finite elements and the number of solution time steps. The stable solution time step, formula_13, is limited for numerical stability, as expressed by the Courant–Friedrichs–Lewy condition (CFL), which states that “in any time-marching computer simulation, the time step must be less than the time for some significant action to occur, and preferably considerably less.\" In a crash simulation, the fastest significant actions are the acoustic signals that travel inside the structural material.\n\nThe solid elastic stress wave speed amounts to\nwhere formula_15 is the initial elastic modulus (before plastic deformation) of the material and formula_16 is the mass density. The largest stable time step for a given material is therefore\nwhere formula_18 is the smallest distance between any two nodes of the numerical crash simulation model.\n\nSince this distance can change during a simulation, the stable time step changes and must be updated continually as the solution proceeds in time. When using steel, the typical value of the stable time step is about one microsecond when the smallest discrete node distance in the mesh of the finite element model is about 5 millimeters. It needs then more than 100,000 time intervals to solve a crash event that lasts for one tenth of a second. This figure is exceeded in many industrial crash models demanding optimized crash solvers with High-Performance Computing (HPC) features, such as vectorization and parallel computing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1928399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1928399", "title": "Deconfinement", "text": "Deconfinement\n\nIn physics, deconfinement (in contrast to confinement) is the property of a phase in which certain particles are allowed to exist as free excitations, rather than only within bound states. Various examples exist in particle physics and condensed matter, where certain gauge theories exhibit transitions between confining and deconfining phases.\n\nA prominent example, and the first case considered as such in theoretical physics, occurs at high energy in quantum chromodynamics when quarks and gluons are free to move over distances larger than a femtometer (the size of a hadron). This phase is also called the quark–gluon plasma.\n\nSpin–charge separation is an example of deconfinement in condensed matter physics: the electron can be viewed as a bound state of a 'spinon' and 'chargon', which under certain conditions can become free to move separately.\n\n"}
{"id": "1377619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1377619", "title": "Degas (crater)", "text": "Degas (crater)\n\nDegas is a rayed crater on Mercury at latitude 37.5 N, longitude 127 W. It is 54 km (27 mi) wide and was named after the French impressionist painter Edgar Degas. Its name was adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU) in 1979. The rays consist of light colored material blasted out during the crater's formation. Craters older than Degas are covered by the ray material, while younger craters are seen superimposed on the rays.\n\nDegas forms a crater pair with Brontë to the north and is surrounded by Sobkou Planitia. Almost south is Heine and further east are Damer and Gibran.\n\nThe crater's floor contains cracks that formed as the pool of impact melt cooled and shrank. The high-reflectance material on the walls and in the central portion of the crater probably has a composition distinct from that of the crater floor and surroundings. The illumination conditions and down-slope movement of eroded material exposing fresh rock also contribute to the bright appearance.\n"}
{"id": "21447748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21447748", "title": "Design-based research", "text": "Design-based research\n\nDesign-based research (DBR) is a type of research methodology used by researchers in the learning sciences, which is a sub-field of education. The basic process of DBR involves developing solutions (called \"interventions\") to problems. Then, the interventions are put to use to test the how well they work. The iterations may then be adapted and re-tested to gather more data. The purpose of this approach is to generate new theories and frameworks for conceptualizing learning, instruction, design processes, and educational reform. Data analysis often takes the form of iterative comparisons.\n\nMethodologically, the learning sciences differs from other fields in educational research. It focuses on the study of learners, their localities, and their communities. The design-based research methodology is often used by learning scientists in their inquiries because this methodological framework considers the subject of study to be a complex system involving emergent properties that arise from the interaction of more variables than are initially known to researchers, including variables stemming from the researchers themselves (Brown, 1992). Rather than attempting to isolate all the various factors that impact learning as in traditional research, the learning sciences employ design based research methodologies which appeal to an approach to the study of learning – in particular human learning both inside and outside of school – that embraces the complex system nature of learning systems. Learning scientists often look at the interactions amongst variables as key components to study, yet acknowledge that within learning environments the interactions are often too complex to study all or completely understand. This stance has been validated by the findings of Cronbach and Snow (1977) which suggest that Aptitude-Treatment Interactions, where variables are isolated in an effort to determine what factors \"most\" influence learning, will not be informative but rather inaccurate and potentially misleading if used as a ground for educational decisions or educational research of complex learning situations such as those characteristic of human beings in their lived experiences.\n\nThe method was first proposed as design-experiments by Allan Collins in 1990 and Ann Brown in 1992. Collins originally proposed design-experiments as contributing to a 'design science', like aeronautics or artificial intelligence, rather than analytic science that seeks to explain natural phenomena. In the mid-1990s, a group called the National Design Experiment Consortium was founded by the late Jan Hawkins, then of Educational Development Corporation, to refine the method. In 1999, Christopher Hoadley founded the Design-Based Research Collective, funded by the Spencer Foundation, and coined the modern term for the method.\n\nDesign-based research methodologies are often viewed as non-scientific by traditional experimental psychologists because design-based research does not follow formal definitions of scientific method. In 2000, Charles Desforges famously called design experiments 'neither designed, nor experiments'. Design-based research is viewed as an outgrowth of product development processes rather than scientific research. Critics see \"design science\" as an application of science to develop products or instructional interventions rather than scientific research. Some researchers question whether design-based research is primarily useful as an exploratory research method geared towards producing designed artifacts, or whether it can validly test robust theories that are contingent on designed artifacts or interventions.\n\nAs mentioned in the conclusion to the 2008 ICLS keynote(), there are several forms of design based research now in use in education research. These are associated with papers from:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1033433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1033433", "title": "Didier Queloz", "text": "Didier Queloz\n\nDidier Queloz (born February 23, 1966) is an astronomer with a prolific record in finding extrasolar planets in the Astrophysics Group of the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, and also at the University of Geneva.\n\nIn 1995 Queloz was a Ph.D. student at the University of Geneva when he and Michel Mayor, his doctoral advisor, discovered the first exoplanet around a main sequence star. Queloz performed an analysis on 51 Pegasi using radial velocity measurements (Doppler spectroscopy), and was astonished to find a planet with an orbital period of 4.2 days. He had been performing the analysis as an exercise to hone his skills. The planet, 51 Pegasi b, challenged the then accepted views of planetary formation, being a hot Jupiter or roaster.\nHe has received the 2011 BBVA Foundation Frontiers of Knowledge Award of Basic Sciences (co-winner with Michel Mayor) for developing new astronomical instruments and experimental techniques that led to the first observation of planets outside the solar system.\nIn 2017 he received the Wolf Prize in Physics.\n\n"}
{"id": "51549421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51549421", "title": "Federigo Luigi Appelius", "text": "Federigo Luigi Appelius\n\nFederigo Luigi Appelius (1835-20 April 1876, Livorno) was an Italian conchologist. \nHis mother was Italian and his father was a German speaking Swiss so he was bilingual.\nHe published : \"Le Conchiglie del Mar Tirreno\", parte prima (pp. 1–27), parte seconda (pp. 1–49). Pisa, Tipografia Nistri (1869); Catalogo delle conchiglie fossili del Livornese desunto dalle collezioni e manoscritti del defunto G. B. Caterini. \"Bulletino Malacologico Italiano\", Pisa, vol. III (1871) ; Osservazioni bibliografiche sui molluschi del Mar Rosso. \"Bullettino Malacologico Italiano\", 6: 12-24 (1873) and short papers.\n\n"}
{"id": "21436165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21436165", "title": "Fertilisation of Orchids", "text": "Fertilisation of Orchids\n\nFertilisation of Orchids is a book by English naturalist Charles Darwin published on 15 May 1862 under the full explanatory title \"On the various contrivances by which British and foreign orchids are fertilised by insects, and on the good effects of intercrossing\". Darwin's previous book, \"On the Origin of Species\", had briefly mentioned evolutionary interactions between insects and the plants they fertilised, and this new idea was explored in detail. Field studies and practical scientific investigations that were initially a recreation for Darwin—a relief from the drudgery of writing—developed into enjoyable and challenging experiments. Aided in his work by his family, friends, and a wide circle of correspondents across Britain and worldwide, Darwin tapped into the contemporary vogue for growing exotic orchids.\n\nThe book was his first detailed demonstration of the power of natural selection, and explained how complex ecological relationships resulted in the coevolution of orchids and insects. The view has been expressed that the book led directly or indirectly to all modern work on coevolution and the evolution of extreme specialisation. It influenced botanists, and revived interest in the neglected idea that insects played a part in pollinating flowers. It opened up the new study areas of pollination research and reproductive ecology, directly related to Darwin's ideas on evolution, and supported his view that natural selection led to a variety of forms through the important benefits achieved by cross-fertilisation. Although the general public showed less interest and sales of the book were low, it established Darwin as a leading botanist. \"Orchids\" was the first in a series of books on his innovative investigations into plants.\n\nThe book describes how the relationship between insects and plants resulted in the beautiful and complex forms which natural theology attributed to a grand designer. By showing how practical adaptations develop from cumulative minor variations of parts of the flowers to suit new purposes, Darwin countered the prevailing view that beautiful organisms were the handiwork of a Creator. Darwin's painstaking observations, experiments, and detailed dissection of the flowers explained previously unknown features such as the puzzle of \"Catasetum\", which had been thought to have three completely different species of flowers on the same plant. In addition, they produced testable predictions including his then-controversial proposal that the long nectary of \"Angraecum sesquipedale\" meant that there must be a moth with an equally long proboscis. This was confirmed in 1903 when \"Xanthopan morganii praedicta\" was found in Madagascar.\n\nCharles Darwin grew up with an interest in natural history, and as a student at the University of Cambridge he became a pupil and close friend of botany professor John Stevens Henslow. The year he graduated, Darwin was given a supernumerary position as a gentleman naturalist and geologist on the second voyage of HMS \"Beagle\", a trip that lasted five years. By the time he returned in October 1836, he had doubts about the doctrine that species were fixed and unchanging. Within months, experts informed him that specimens he had collected were separate species, not just varieties, and the patterns he saw inspired the inception of his theory of natural selection in 1838. Darwin began editing and publishing the expert reports, collected in the \"Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. Beagle\", at the same time as writing a series of books on geology, the first of which was \"The Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs\". His \"species work\" was his \"prime hobby\", a background to this writing, but it evolved into an extensive research programme during the twenty years before he published his theory.\n\nDarwin's speculations on the origin of species convinced him that cross-fertilisation played an important role in keeping specific forms consistent. He rejected the doctrine that the characteristics of a species were static, and was aware from animal husbandry that inbreeding could lead to changes, often deleterious. He thought that natural outbreeding through cross-fertilisation would keep wild species homogenous yet vigorous. Cross-fertilisation would confer an evolutionary advantage by spreading favourable changes throughout a reproductive community. His ideas were contrary to the common supposition that plants were usually self-fertilising, and so every summer Darwin investigated the contribution of insect pollination to the cross-pollination of flowers.\nIn the summer of 1841 Charles and Emma Darwin moved from the turmoil of London to the countryside, to Down House, a quiet former parsonage in the village of Downe. He wrote, \"The flowers are here very beautiful\". Darwin followed the recommendation of his friend, the leading botanist Robert Brown, and read \"Das entdeckte Geheimnis der Natur im Bau und in der Befruchtung der Blumen\" (\"The Secret of Nature in the Form and Fertilisation of Flowers Discovered\"). The little known book, published in 1793 by Christian Konrad Sprengel but never translated into English, introduced the idea that flowers were created by God to fulfill a teleological purpose: insects would act as \"living brushes\" to cross-fertilise plants in a symbiotic relationship. This functional view was rejected and mostly forgotten, as it contradicted the common belief that flowers had been created for beauty, and were generally self-fertilising. For Darwin, the concept of evolution gave new meaning to Sprengel's research into the mechanisms for cross-fertilisation. He welcomed its support for his supposition that cross-fertilisation in flowering plants tended to allow their offspring to avoid possible disadvantages resulting from self-fertilisation, and by 1845 he had verified many of Sprengel's observations.\n\nA favourite walk took the Darwin family to a spot above the quiet Cudham valley, teeming with orchids including \"Cephalanthera\", \"Neottia\", Fly Orchids and Musk Orchids. They called this place \"Orchis Bank\", and the whole family became involved in Darwin's researches. Darwin observed orchids every summer, but in twenty years, only on two occasions (when he noticed butterflies \"sucking \"O. pyramidalis\" and \"Gymnadenia\"\") did he see insects visiting flowers.\nIn 1854, Darwin began to work full-time on the origin of species. He examined orchids and counted how often one or both pollinia (pollen masses) had been removed from their flowers, indicating that they had been visited by insects. He experimented with insect pollination to investigate whether, by cross-fertilising field crops such as Fabaceae, they would yield more vigorous offspring, and published letters about his inconclusive results in \"The Gardeners' Chronicle\" in 1857 and 1858. He next applied Sprengel's methods to empirical research on orchids. Despite delays caused by recurring illness, he made progress on writing his planned \"Big Book\" on evolution, but when Alfred Russel Wallace's letter prompted joint publication of both of their theories of natural selection in 1858, Darwin quickly wrote \"On the Origin of Species\" as an abstract of his theory, published on 22 November 1859. In this book, he gave credence to Sprengel's ideas on the advantages of \"intercrossing\", and noted: \"Many of our orchidaceous plants absolutely require the visits of moths to remove their pollen masses and thus to fertilise them\". He introduced his new concept, the process of coevolution, describing the co-adaptation of bumblebees and red clover, and speculating \"how a flower and a bee might slowly become, either simultaneously or one after the other, modified and adapted in the most perfect manner to each other, by the continued preservation of individuals presenting mutual and slightly favourable deviations of structure\". This was a theme he developed in his orchid book.\n\nAfter \"On the Origin of Species\" was published, Darwin became involved in producing revised editions as well as working on \"Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication\" as the first part of his planned \"Big Book\". By the spring of 1860 he had tired of the grind of writing, and needed something fresh and interesting to study. During a family visit to relatives at Hartfield, he was searching for orchids when he noticed a sundew. He collected it and tried to feed it insects, thus beginning a long-term study of insectivorous plants. He investigated other botanical questions raised by his ideas of natural selection, including the advantages of sexual dimorphism in primulas, and the adaptive mechanisms that ensure cross-pollination in orchids. As an enthusiastic practical scientist, such investigations gave him a strong sense of personal enjoyment. He relished pitting his wits against nature, and following lucky hunches. His theory was a way of looking at the world, enabling him to find creative solutions to problems that traditional approaches could not solve. He later wrote, \"I am like a gambler, & love a wild experiment.\"\n\nAround the end of April 1860, Darwin discussed insect pollination with his friend Joseph Dalton Hooker, and mentioned the bee orchid. Darwin corresponded with Hooker's assistant Daniel Oliver, the senior curator at Kew Gardens, who became a follower of Darwin's ideas. At the start of June, Darwin wrote to \"The Gardeners' Chronicle\" asking for readers' observations on how bee or fly orchids were fertilised. His letter described the mechanisms for insect fertilisation he had discovered in common British orchids, and reported his experimental observations that pollen masses were removed from \"Orchis morio\" and \"Orchis mascula\" plants in the open, but left in their pouches in adjacent plants under a glass bell jar. He wrote to American botanist Asa Gray that he had been \"so struck with admiration at the contrivances, that I have sent notice to Gardeners Chronicle\", and made similar enquiries of other experts.\n\nDarwin became engrossed in meticulous microscopic examination, tracing the complicated mechanisms of flowers that attracted insects by their nectar so that the insects transported pollen to cross-pollinate other plants, and on 19 July he told Hooker, \"I am intensely interested on subject, just as at a game of chess.\" In September, he \"dissected with the greatest interest\" and wrote, \"The contrivances for insect fertilisation in Orchids are multiform & truly wonderful & beautiful.\" By October, he had \"a large mass of notes with many new facts\", but set them aside \"convinced that I ought to work on \"Variation\" & not amuse myself with interludes\".\n\nDuring 1861, botany became a preoccupation for Darwin, and his projects became serious scientific pursuits. He continued his study of orchids throughout the summer, writing to anyone who might be able to supply specimens he had not yet examined. Field naturalists, botanists, and country gentry sent specimens from across the British Isles. Darwin also tramped around the countryside with tin cans and biscuit boxes, collecting specimens which his gardeners potted up for him. His family joined in, and neighbours contributed to the research. As he had only a cold greenhouse, a friend on the other side of the village who had a hot-house allowed him to use that, and offered the services of his gardener to look after the delicate specimens. Darwin's aim was to show how the complex structures and life cycles of the plants could be explained by natural selection rather than by the handiwork of God; he saw the huge variety of flowers as a collection of \"ad hoc\" evolutionary adaptations. In June he described his examination of bee orchids as a passion, and his findings on insect fertilisation of orchids as \"beautiful facts\".\n\nThere were several replies to Darwin's enquiry in \"The Gardeners' Chronicle\" seeking evidence to support his idea that pollen masses attached themselves to a convenient place on an insect's back or head, usually its proboscis, to transport the pollen to another flower. One envelope appeared to be empty when it arrived at Down House, but when he looked further before discarding it he found several insect mouthparts with pollen masses attached. To help their daughter Henrietta convalesce from illness, the Darwins arranged to spend two months in Torquay. Darwin wrote:\nHe sought advice on obtaining the exotic South American \"Catasetum\", to see it eject pollen masses, as \"I am got intensely interested on subject & think I understand pretty well all the British species.\" They went to Torquay on 1 July, and Darwin began writing his Orchid paper. By 10 August, he feared his paper would run \"to 100 M.S. folio pages!!! The beauty of the adaptations of parts seems to me unparalleled ... I marvel often as I think over the diversity & perfection of the contrivances.\"\nThe family returned to Downe on 27 August, and Darwin again wrote to the \"Gardeners' Chronicle\" appealing for assistance as he was \"very anxious to examine a few exotic forms\". His requests to the wealthy enthusiasts who had taken up the fashionable pursuit of growing rare orchids brought large numbers of specimens. These would be a test of his theory: previously aspects such as coloration of plants and animals had often been regarded as having no adaptive function. For example, Thomas Henry Huxley was strongly influenced by German idealism and in 1856 had asked if it was \"to be supposed for a moment that the beauty of colour and outline ... are any \"good\" to the animals? ... Who has ever dreamed of finding an utilitarian purpose in the forms and colours of flowers ... ?\" Darwin had, and in the orchids he tackled the most difficult case. His ideas would transform the way naturalists thought about coloration.\n\nThe completed Orchis paper came to 140 folio pages, and Darwin decided against presenting it at the Linnean Society of London, thinking of publishing a pamphlet instead. He offered the draft to John Murray who agreed to publish it as a book. Although Darwin feared a lack of public interest, he hoped it would serve to \"illustrate how Natural History may be worked under the belief of the modification of Species\". In discussions with Asa Gray about natural theology, he wrote that \"it really seems to me incredibly monstrous to look at an orchid as created as we now see it. Every part reveals modification on modification.\"\n\nAs a popular and acceptable activity, botany had been taken up by many middle class ladies, and Darwin included these botany enthusiasts in his correspondence. On the recommendation of John Lindley, Darwin wrote to Lady Dorothy Nevill, who responded generously by sending numerous exotic orchids, and requested a signed photograph of him to hang in her sitting room next to portraits of her other notable friends, including Hooker.\n\nThe orchid book was delayed because of illness, but Darwin continued to \"look at it as a hobby-horse, which has given me great pleasure to ride\". He was particularly astounded by the long spur of the \"Angraecum sesquipedale\" flowers, one of the orchids sent by the distinguished horticulturist James Bateman, and wrote to Hooker \"Good Heavens what insect can suck it[?]\"\n\nBy November, a specimen of the exotic South American \"Catasetum\" orchid Hooker had given to Darwin had shown its \"truly marvellous\" mechanism, by which it shot out a pollinium at any insect touching a part of the flower \"with sticky gland always foremost\". This plant had astonished botanists in 1836 when Robert Hermann Schomburgk stated that he had seen one plant growing three distinct flowers which usually grew separately and had wrongly been categorised as three distinct genera, namely \"Catasetum tridentatum\", \"Monachanthus viridis\", and \"Myanthus barbatus\". John Lindley had remarked that \"such cases shake to the foundation all our ideas of the stability of genera and species.\" One of Darwin's correspondents told of delight at growing a beautiful specimen of \"Myanthus barbatus\" imported from Demerara, then dismay when the plant flowered the next year as a simple \"Catasetum\".\n\nIn view of this interest, Darwin prepared a paper on \"Catasetum\" as an extract from his forthcoming book, which was read to the Linnean Society of London on 3 April 1862. Darwin solved the puzzle by showing that the three flowers were the male, female, and hermaphrodite forms of a single species, but as they differed so much from each other, they had been classified as different genera.\n\nDarwin sent the incomplete manuscript to his publisher John Murray on 9 February 1862, while he was still working on the last chapter. Although anxious that the book might not sell, he could \"say with confidence that the M.S. contains many new & very curious facts & conclusions\". When the book was printed, he sent out presentation copies to all the individuals and societies who had helped him with his investigations, and to eminent botanists in Britain and abroad for review.\n\nOn 15 May 1862 the book was published under the full title of \"On the various contrivances by which British and foreign orchids are fertilised by insects, and on the good effects of intercrossing\". In August, Darwin was \"well contented with the sale of 768 copies; I shd. hope & expect that the remainder will ultimately be sold\", but the book sold slowly and less than 2,000 copies of the first edition were printed. An expanded edition translated into French was published in Paris in 1870, and in 1877 Murray brought out a revised and expanded second edition, with the shortened title \"The various contrivances by which orchids are fertilised by insects\". This was also published by D. Appleton & Company of New York in 1877, and a German translation was published in the same year. Despite being well praised by botanists, only about 6,000 copies of the English editions had been sold by 1900.\n\nDarwin set out a detailed study of common descent with modifications by expanding on the theme of coevolution between local populations of insects and flowering plants that he had briefly discussed in \"On the Origin of Species\". He examined numerous ways in which orchids vary, showing how they had diverged and developed specialised pollen-dispersal mechanisms. The intricate morphology and anatomy of each flower was carefully described. Apparently trivial details were examined in relation to natural selection to demonstrate how slight variations in similar structures of closely related flowers led to specialised modifications that provided various pollinators (insects) with different ways to cross-fertilise. The mass of descriptive detail was a great achievement, but the result is demanding to read.\n\nIn the introduction, Darwin explained his aim of meeting complaints that detailed support for his theory was lacking in \"On the Origin of Species\". He chose orchids for his subject as \"amongst the most singular and most modified forms in the vegetable kingdom\" in the hope of inspiring work on other species, and felt that \"the study of organic beings may be as interesting to an observer who is fully convinced that the structure of each is due to secondary laws, as to one who views every trifling detail of structure as the result of the direct interposition of the Creator.\" He gave due credit to previous authors who had described the agency of insects in fertilising orchids, and all who had helped him.\n\nIn the first chapter Darwin described the British orchids he had studied, giving detailed explanations of their various mechanisms for transferring pollen to insects. The first mechanism described is that of \"Orchis mascula\", which serves as an introduction to the explanation of other Orchidaceae. In the upper part of the flower a petal shelters the male organ which has two packages of pollen grains, held together by thin elastic threads. These pollen masses stand side by side and have stalks down to adhesive balls in a cup which keeps them moist and sticky. When an insect lands on the large projecting lower petal, the labellum, and pushes its head and proboscis into the centre of the flower and down to the nectary, it breaks the cup and the adhesive balls attach the pollen masses to the front of the insect. As the insect flies off, each stalk rotates the pollen mass downwards and forwards so that when the insect lands on another flower the pollen masses attached to the insect pass under the male organ and leave pollen on the female organ, achieving cross fertilisation. Darwin envisaged:\nThis is followed by descriptions of the differences in the mechanisms of several other orchids. In \"Orchis pyramidalis\", the adhesive balls are combined together into a strap or saddle shape, which curls round the thin proboscis of a moth or butterfly to attach to it the pair of pollen masses, illustrated in the book by showing a moth's head with seven pairs of pollen masses attached to its proboscis.\n\nWhile the bee orchid showed adaptation for self-fertilisation, its mechanism also enabled occasional cross-fertilisation, creating the biological diversity that Darwin felt was needed for vigorous survival, which could not be provided by self-fertilisation. As an example of \"how beautifully everything is contrived\", Darwin described how he had found that in \"Spiranthes\" flowers the pollen is ready for collection before access is open for the female organ to receive pollen. At Torquay he had watched bees visiting spires of these flowers, starting at the bottom of the spire and working their way up to the topmost flowers. He speculated that if bees moved from top to top of the spires, the pollen clusters they collected from the most recently opened flowers would be wasted as the topmost flowers on the next spike would not be ready to receive pollen. A bee starting at the lowest flowers on the first spire it visited would continue up until it reached flowers that still had their pollen masses to attach to the bee, then would fly to the mature lower flowers on another plant, and fertilise them. By this co-ordinated process, the bee would add \"to her store of honey\" while perpetuating the flowers \"which will yield honey to future generations of bees\".\n\nThe book moves on to the various foreign orchids Darwin had received from others. His experiments showed that the \"astonishing length\" of the 11 inch (290 mm) long nectary hanging from \"Angraecum sesquipedale\" flowers implied the need for an as yet unknown moth with a proboscis 10–11 inches (250–275 mm) long to pollinate these flowers in Madagascar. He viewed this as the outcome of a coevolutionary race, writing that \"there has been a race in gaining length between the nectary of the Angræcum and the proboscis of certain moths\". This wastefulness is familiar in modern terms as the idea of an evolutionary arms race, but was disturbing to biologists of the time who believed that adaptations were the outcome of benevolent divine purpose.\n\nDarwin described \"the most remarkable of all Orchids\", \"Catasetum\", and showed how in these flowers, \"as throughout nature, pre-existing structures and capacities [had been] utilised for new purposes\". He explained the mechanism in which the pollen masses of the pollinium were connected by a bent stalk or pedicel to a sticky disc kept moist at the back of the flower. When an insect touched an \"antenna\" projecting from the back of the flower, this released the bent pedicel which sprang straight and fired the pollinium, sticky disc first, at the insect. In experiments, Darwin had imitated this action using a whalebone spring. He vividly illustrated how the flower ejected the pollinium with considerable force: \"I touched the antennæ of C. callosum whilst holding the flower at about a yard's distance from the window, and the pollinium hit the pane of glass, and adhered to the smooth vertical surface by its adhesive disc.\"\n\nDarwin noted that the essential nectar, secreted to attract insects, seemed also in some cases to act as an excretion: \"It is in perfect accordance with the scheme of nature, as worked out by natural selection, that matter excreted to free the system from superfluous or injuring substances should be utilised for purposes of the highest importance.\" Homologies of the flowers of orchids showed them all to be based on \"fifteen groups of vessels, arranged three within three, in alternating order\". He disparaged the idea that this was an \"ideal type\" fixed by the Omnipotent Creator, but attributed it instead to its \"descent from some monocotyledonous plant, which, like so many other plants of the same division, possessed fifteen organs, arranged alternately three within three in five whorls; and that the now wonderfully changed structure of the flower is due to a long course of slow modification,—each modification having been preserved which was useful to each plant, during the incessant changes to which the organic and the inorganic world has been exposed\".\n\nDescribing the final end state of the whole flower cycle as the production of seed, he set out a simple experiment in which he took a ripe seed capsule and arranged the seeds in a line, then counted the seeds in one-tenth of an inch (2.5 mm). By multiplication he found that each plant produced enough seeds to plant of ground, and the great grandchildren of a single plant could \"carpet the entire surface of the land throughout the globe\" if unchecked.\n\nIn conclusion, he felt that the book had \"shown that Orchids exhibit an almost endless diversity of beautiful adaptations. When this or that part has been spoken of as contrived for some special purpose, it must not be supposed that it was originally always formed for this sole purpose. The regular course of events seems to be, that a part which originally served for one purpose, by slow changes becomes adapted for widely different purposes.\"\nHe was almost exasperated by the inventiveness of forms in nature; \"In my examination of Orchids, hardly any fact has so much struck me as the endless diversity of structure,—the prodigality of resources,—for gaining the very same end, namely, the fertilisation of one flower by the pollen of another.\" His focus on detail was justified, as \"The use of each trifling detail of structure is far from a barren search to those who believe in natural selection.\" The \"contrivances and beautiful adaptations\" slowly acquired through slight variations, subjected to natural selection \"under the complex and ever-varying conditions of life\", far transcended the most fertile imagination. The mechanisms to transport the pollen of one flower or of one plant to another flower or plant underlined the importance of cross-fertilisation: \"For may we not further infer as probable, in accordance with the belief of the vast majority of the breeders of our domestic productions, that marriage between near relatives is likewise in some way injurious,—that some unknown great good is derived from the union of individuals which have been kept distinct for many generations?\"\n\nBotanists responded favourably to the book immediately on its publication. Hooker told Darwin that the book showed him to be \"out of sight the best Physiological observer & experimenter that Botany ever saw\", and was glad to note that two leading traditional botanists had accepted the concept of evolution; \"Bentham & Oliver are quite struck up in a heap with your book & delighted beyond expression\". Daniel Oliver thought it \"very extraordinary\", and even Darwin's old beetle-hunting rival Charles Babington, by then professor of botany at the University of Cambridge and inclined to oppose natural selection, called it \"exceedingly interesting and valuable ... highly satisfactory in all respects. The results are most curious and the skill shown in discovering them equally so.\" George Bentham praised its value in opening \"a new field for observing the wonderful provisions of Nature ... a new and unexpected track to guide us in the explanation of phenomena which had before that appeared so irreconcilable with the ordinary prevision and method shown in the organised world.\"\n\nThe book's success in botanical circles was enhanced following Bentham's public endorsement. In his presidential address to the Linnean Society on 24 May 1862, Bentham praised the book as exemplifying the biological method, and said that it had nearly overcome his opposition to the \"Origin\". In his address in 1863 he stated that \"Mr Darwin has shown how changes \"may\" take place\", and described it as \"an unimpeachable example of a legitimate hypothesis\" in compliance with John Stuart Mill's scientific method. This endorsement favourably influenced Miles Joseph Berkeley, Charles Victor Naudin, Alphonse Pyramus de Candolle, Jean Louis Quatrefages, and Charles Daubeny.\n\nIn June 1862, Darwin welcomed favourable reviews in the press and wrote to Hooker; \"Well my orchis-book is a success (but I do not know whether it sells) after cursing my folly in writing it\". He told his publisher, \"The Botanists praise my Orchid-book to the skies\", and to Asa Gray he said, \"I am fairly astonished at the success of my book with botanists.\" Darwin's geologist friend Charles Lyell gave it enthusiastic praise: \"next to the \"Origin\", as the most valuable of all Darwin's works.\" However, the book attracted little attention from the general public, and in September Darwin told his cousin Fox, \"Hardly any one not a botanist, except yourself, as far as I know, has cared for it.\" The book baffled a general public more interested in controversy over gorillas and cavemen. There were some reviews in gardening magazines, but few natural philosophers or zoologists noticed the book, and hardly any learned appraisals appeared.\n\nAlthough the book contradicted the prevailing natural theology and its teleological approach to design in nature, the \"Saturday Review\" thought that it would avoid the angry polemics aroused by \"On the Origin of Species\". The \"Literary Churchman\" welcomed \"Mr. Darwin's expression of admiration at the contrivances in orchids\", only complaining that it was too indirect a way of saying \"O Lord, how manifold are Thy works!\" (Psalm 104:24) Darwin regarded these theological views as irritating misunderstandings, but wrote to Asa Gray describing his approach as a \"flank movement on the enemy\". By showing that the \"wonderful contrivances\" of the orchid have discoverable evolutionary histories, Darwin was countering claims by natural theologians that the organisms were examples of the perfect work of the Creator.\n\nThere was considerable controversy surrounding Darwin's prediction that a moth would be found in Madagascar with a long proboscis matching the nectary of \"Angraecum sesquipedale\". An anonymous article in the \"Edinburgh Review\" of October 1862 by George Campbell, 8th Duke of Argyll, argued that Darwin's wording implied purpose, and concluded that \"We know, too, that these purposes and ideas are not our own, but the ideas and purposes of Another.\" He considered Darwin's explanations the \"most unsatisfactory conjectures\", and raised obscure metaphysical objections while supporting a kind of creative evolutionism. Emma Darwin thought that although Argyll was \"quite opposed\" to Darwin's views, \"he praises the \"Orchids\" in such an enthusiastic way that he will do it a good turn\". Darwin was delighted to find that a well written article \"smashing\" Argyll's review was by one of Darwin's own nephews.\n\nArgyll went on in his 1867 book \"The Reign of Law\" to cleverly ridicule Darwin's ideas, particularly the prediction of a moth in Madagascar with a proboscis 10–11 inches (250–275 mm) long. He believed that adaptations showed divine purpose, not a mindless evolutionary arms race. In his response \"Creation by Law\" later that year, Alfred Russel Wallace produced a detailed explanation of how the nectary could have evolved through natural selection, and stated that he had carefully measured moths in the British Museum, finding that the proboscis of \"Macrosila cluentius\" from South America was 9 inches (235 mm) long, and the proboscis of \"Macrosila morganii\" from tropical Africa (since renamed \"Xanthopan morganii\") was 7 inches (190 mm) long. An enquiry raised in 1873 was answered by Darwin's friend Hermann Müller, who stated that his brother Fritz Müller had caught a sphinx moth in Brazil with a proboscis nearly long. Darwin's anticipation was fully met in 1903, when a subspecies of \"Xanthopan morganii\" was found in Madagascar with a proboscis about 12 inches (300 mm) long, and was named \"Xanthopan morganii praedicta\" to celebrate this verification of a testable prediction made by Darwin on the basis of his theory of natural selection.\n\nMichael Ghiselin has expressed the view that all studies of coevolution follow directly or indirectly from Darwin's orchid book, which was also the origin of all work on the evolution of extreme specialisation. Its publication led almost immediately to research by many other naturalists into specialisation and coevolution, in some cases analysing other taxa. In his autobiography, Darwin modestly recalled how this work had revived interest in Christian Konrad Sprengel's neglected ideas:\nAmong the many prominent biologists who began research on coevolution, Hermann Müller was particularly interested in the evolutionary sequence in which insects and flowers became adapted to each other. Like Darwin, he began with the premise that flowers were adapted to ensure cross-fertilisation, and added his own premise that most insects were not \"limited by hereditary instinct to particular flowers\". On this basis, he developed the view that specialisation develops from the need for flowers to attract pollinating insects (without making access too easy for non-pollinators), and from the evolution of pollinators to adapt to changes in the location of rewards such as nectar. He found that Alpine flowers tended to be visited by bees at lower altitudes, and by butterflies at higher altitudes, beginning research on the idea that plants at different altitudes were specialised for different pollinators. By comparing related plant species that he thought had diverged in form from a common ancestor, and testing whether they were visited by butterflies or bees, he was the first to use a combination of morphological and ecological approaches to understand patterns in the evolution of interactions and specialisation. His brother Fritz Müller used similar methods when studying mimicry in Brazil. The early development of ideas on specialisation and coevolution became increasingly focused on the problem of mimicry; Henry Walter Bates had initially raised this issue in a paper read to the Linnean Society of London in December 1861 in Darwin's presence, and published in November 1862.\n\nOthers basing their studies of reproductive ecology on Darwin's evolutionary approach included Friedrich Hildebrand and Severin Axell in Europe, Asa Gray and Charles Robertson in North America. In Italy, Federigo Delpino adopted the theory of descent but like Sprengel had a teleological approach and explained the mechanisms of flowers by the intervention of a \"psychovitalistic intelligence\". Delpino classified flowers on the basis of the pollinators they attracted, and coined many of the terms still in use such as pollination syndrome and ornithophily. There was an enormous increase in knowledge during this period. In 1874, Asa Gray paid tribute to Darwin's work on orchids for explaining \"all these and other extraordinary structures, as well as of the arrangement of blossoms in general, and even the very meaning and need of sexual propagation\". He credited Darwin with establishing the understanding that \"Nature abhors close fertilization\".\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, there were so many uncritical and unproven speculations about floral mechanisms that floral ecology became discredited. In the 1920s, it was revived with further developments in detailed analyses of insects' senses, led by researchers Frederic Clements, Karl von Frisch and others. Their experiments resulted in new information, including the discovery that some insects have ultraviolet vision, and findings involving bee learning and communication. Modern floral ecology has been reinvigorated by its relevance for evolutionary studies.\n\nDarwin had \"found the study of orchids eminently useful in showing me how nearly all parts of the flower are coadapted for fertilisation by insects, & therefore the result of n. selection,—even most trifling details of structure\". His own interest in orchids and in fertilisation of plants by insects continued. Darwin had been given the use of a hot-house at The Rookery on the other side of the village, and at the end of 1862 he was persuaded by this neighbour's helpful gardener to have his own built at Down House as an extension to the existing cold lean-to greenhouse. The gardener drew up plans, and Darwin investigated stoves and ventilation devices. When it was completed in February 1863 he asked Hooker for some plants from Kew Gardens, writing \"I long to stock it, just like a school-boy\", and sent his butler with a cart. When over 160 different plants were delivered, Darwin made apologetic remarks about depleting the national collection. He told Hooker \"You cannot imagine what pleasure your plants give me ... Henrietta & I go & gloat over them.\" Darwin's life was changed by having a warm hothouse to spend time in before his walk round the Sandwalk, and in the 1870s he had several more hothouses built. The children later remembered this routine and the gardeners attending to Darwin's experimental plants, as well as the way that Darwin used simple equipment for his experiments, dissecting and measuring plants and seeds.\n\nA chance observation \"thoroughly aroused\" Darwin's attention to a surprising decrease in vigour of the offspring of \"Linaria vulgaris\" following only one instance of self-fertilisation, and after eleven years of experimental work he published \"The Effects of Cross and Self Fertilisation in the Vegetable Kingdom\" in 1876 as \"a complement to the 'Fertilisation of Orchids,' because it shows how important are the results of cross-fertilisation which are ensured by the mechanisms described in that book.\" He told a friend \"I cannot endure doing nothing\", and resumed his work on orchids, assisted in his research by his son Francis Darwin. He corresponded about orchids with Fritz Müller, and almost completely rewrote the book with a considerable amount of new material, much of which was contributed by Müller. The revised edition was published in 1877.\n\nFrancis Darwin described it as characteristic that his father delighted in the observations that preceded the publication of \"Fertilisation of Orchids\", not the applause which followed it. He quoted one of his father's last letters about orchids, written in 1880:\nKent Wildlife Trust manages Downe Bank, which is near Down House and was a favourite place of the Darwin family, who called it 'Orchis Bank' because of the many wild orchids which grew there. It is now part of the 'Downe Bank and High Elms' Site of Special Scientific Interest. Darwin's observations of local orchids and their insect pollinators gave him the evidence for co-evolution which provided the basis for the \"Fertilisation of Orchids\".\" Experts have identified \"Orchis Bank\" as the species-rich setting encapsulated in the closing paragraph of \"On the Origin of Species\", in which Darwin wrote:\n\nDarwin's home and its surroundings, including specifically \"Orchis Bank\", have been called his landscape laboratory, and together were nominated in January 2009 for designation as a World Heritage Site. The bid was made by a partnership led by the London Borough of Bromley, which now includes Downe. It was included in the 39 proposed properties, but was not in the 21 new sites selected for the list.\n\nThe influence of Darwin's work was commemorated in the Smithsonian Institution's 15th Annual Orchid Show, \"Orchids Through Darwin's Eyes\", 24 January to 26 April 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "22579173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22579173", "title": "Flatness (liquids)", "text": "Flatness (liquids)\n\nFlatness refers to the shape of a liquid's free surface. On planet Earth, the flatness of a liquid is a function of the curvature of the Earth, and from trigonometry, can be found to deviate from true flatness by approximately 19.6 nanometers over an area of 1 square meter, a deviation which is dominated by the effects of surface tension. This calculation using the Earth's mean radius at sea level, however a liquid will be slightly flatter at the poles.\n\n"}
{"id": "55523977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55523977", "title": "Flavobacterium akiainvivens", "text": "Flavobacterium akiainvivens\n\nFlavobacterium akiainvivens, or koohonua ili akia, (literally \"ākia bark bacteria\") is a species of gram-negative bacteria in the Flavobacteriaceae family. The specific epithet \"akiainvivens\" is Latin (\"\") and literally means \"living on or in ākia.\" It was isolated originally from decaying wood of the endemic Hawai'ian shrub ākia (\"Wikstroemia oahuensis\").\n\n\"F. akiainvivens\" was discovered by Iris Kuo when was just a high school student at Iolani School. She and her coauthors determined that it shares a clade with \"Flavobacterium rivuli\" and \"Flavobacterium subsaxonicum\".\n\nGrown on R2a agar, colonies are off-white or cream, around 2-3mm in diameter, mucoid and translucent. Cells are gram-negative 0.4 by 2 µm rods. The cells are without any gliding motility and the genome revealed no flagella or chemotaxis systems. It is catalase-positive, oxidase-negative, and can not reduce nitrate. The species expresses caseinase, lipase, and amylase, but can digest neither cellulose nor DNA. It can grow both aerobically and microaerophilically but not anaerobically. The primary carotenoid is zeaxanthin, but it does not have any flexirubin-type pigments. The DNA G+C content for the type strain is 44.2 mol%.\n\nIn early 2013, state representative James Tokioka submitted HB 293 HD1 to establish \"F. akiainvivens\" as the state microbe of Hawaii. At the time, no other U.S. states had a microorganism as a state symbol. However, on 29 May 2013 Oregon officially designated \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" as the official microbe of the state, making it the first in the nation. Meanwhile, the Hawaiian legislation was deferred for a year when it encountered competition from Senator Glenn Wakai's SB3124 proposing \"Aliivibrio fischeri\". In 2017, legislation similar to the original 2013 \"F. akiainvivens\" bill was submitted in the Hawaii House of Representatives by Isaac Choy and in the Hawaii Senate by Brian Taniguchi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34245943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34245943", "title": "From Beirut to Jerusalem: A Woman Surgeon with the Palestinians", "text": "From Beirut to Jerusalem: A Woman Surgeon with the Palestinians\n\nFrom Beirut to Jerusalem: A Woman Surgeon With the Palestinians is a book by Swee Chai Ang, an orthopaedic surgeon who worked with civilians during the Lebanese Civil War. The book details her eye-witness account of the Sabra and Shatila massacre. Dr. Ang, a graduate of the Royal Victoria Infirmary in Britain, testified before the Kahan Commission. The commission was responsible for investigating the nature of the Israeli involvement in the massacre of perhaps 800 to 1000 Palestinians. Dr. Ang established a British charity following her first hand account of the massacres known as the Medical Aid for Palestinians (MAP) which she discusses in her work.\n"}
{"id": "295183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295183", "title": "Galilean transformation", "text": "Galilean transformation\n\nIn physics, a Galilean transformation is used to transform between the coordinates of two reference frames which differ only by constant relative motion within the constructs of Newtonian physics. These transformations together with spatial rotations and translations in space and time form the inhomogeneous Galilean group (assumed throughout below). Without the translations in space and time the group is the homogeneous Galilean group. The Galilean group is the group of motions of Galilean relativity acting on the four dimensions of space and time, forming the Galilean geometry. This is the passive transformation point of view. The equations below, although apparently obvious, are valid only at speeds much less than the speed of light. In special relativity the Galilean transformations are replaced by Poincaré transformations; conversely, the group contraction in the classical limit of Poincaré transformations yields Galilean transformations.\n\nGalileo formulated these concepts in his description of \"uniform motion\".\nThe topic was motivated by his description of the motion of a ball rolling down a ramp, by which he measured the numerical value for the acceleration of gravity near the surface of the Earth.\n\nThough the transformations are named for Galileo, it is absolute time and space as conceived by Isaac Newton that provides their domain of definition. In essence, the Galilean transformations embody the intuitive notion of addition and subtraction of velocities as vectors.\n\nThis assumption is abandoned in the Poincaré transformations. These relativistic transformations are applicable to all velocities, while the Galilean transformation can be regarded as a low-velocity approximation to the Poincaré transformation.\n\nThe notation below describes the relationship under the Galilean transformation between the coordinates and of a single arbitrary event, as measured in two coordinate systems S and S', in uniform relative motion (velocity \"v\") in their common \"x\" and \"x\"′ directions, with their spatial origins coinciding at time :\n\nNote that the last equation expresses the assumption of a universal time independent of the relative motion of different observers.\n\nIn the language of linear algebra, this transformation is considered a shear mapping, and is described with a matrix acting on a vector. With motion parallel to the \"x\"-axis, the transformation acts on only two components:\nThough matrix representations are not strictly necessary for Galilean transformation, they provide the means for direct comparison to transformation methods in special relativity.\n\nThe Galilean symmetries can be uniquely written as the composition of a \"rotation\", a \"translation\" and a \"uniform motion\" of spacetime. Let represent a point in three-dimensional space, and a point in one-dimensional time. A general point in spacetime is given by an ordered pair .\n\nA uniform motion, with velocity , is given by \nwhere . A translation is given by\nwhere and . A rotation is given by\nwhere is an orthogonal transformation.\n\nAs a Lie group, the Galilean transformations span 10 dimensions, i.e., comprise 10 generators.\n\nTwo Galilean transformations compose to form a third Galilean transformation, . \nThe set of all Galilean transformations on space forms a group with composition as the group operation.\n\nThe group is sometimes represented as a matrix group with spacetime events as vectors where is real and is a position in space. The action is given by\nwhere is real and and is a rotation matrix.\n\nThe composition of transformations is then accomplished through matrix multiplication. has named subgroups. The identity component is denoted .\n\nLet represent the transformation matrix with parameters :\n\nThe parameters span ten dimensions. Since the transformations depend continuously on , is a continuous group, also called a topological group.\n\nThe structure of can be understood by reconstruction from subgroups. The semidirect product combination (formula_14) of groups is required. \n\nHere, we only look at the Lie algebra of the Galilean group; it is then easy to extend the results to the Lie group.\n\nThe relevant Lie algebra is spanned by and (an antisymmetric tensor), subject to commutation relations, where\n\nThis Lie Algebra is seen to be a special classical limit of the algebra of the Poincaré group, in the limit . Technically, the Galilean group is a celebrated group contraction of the Poincaré group (which, in turn, is a group contraction of the de Sitter group \"SO\"(1,4)).\n\nRenaming the generators of the latter as , where is the speed of light, or any function thereof diverging as , the commutation relations (structure constants) of the latter limit to that of the former.\n\nNote the group invariants , .\n\nIn matrix form, for \"d\"=3, one may consider the \"regular representation\" (embedded in \"GL\"(5;ℝ), from which it could be derived by a single group contraction, bypassing the Poincaré group), \nformula_29\nformula_30\nformula_31\nformula_32\n\nThe infinitesimal group element is then \n\nOne could, instead, augment the Galilean group by a central extension of the Lie algebra spanned by , such that commutes with everything (i.e. lies in the center), and\n\nThis algebra is often referred to as the Bargmann algebra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25380700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25380700", "title": "International institutes on political management", "text": "International institutes on political management\n\nThis is a list of various international institutes teaching full-time, part-time and short-term programs in political management. Political science, political economics, political history may be used by various institutions to represent similar topics.\n\n"}
{"id": "5005281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5005281", "title": "Irving Shain", "text": "Irving Shain\n\nIrving Shain (January 2, 1926 – March 6, 2018) was a chemistry professor at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He served as Chancellor of the university from 1977 to 1986.\n\nBorn in Seattle, Washington, Shain served in the United States Army from 1943 to 1946. He then attended the University of Washington, where he received his BS in 1949 and his Ph.D. in 1952, both in chemistry. He began teaching chemistry at the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1952, and later served as the vice chancellor from 1970 to 1975. From 1975 to 1977, he went to the University of Washington in order to serve as the vice president of academic affairs, before returning to UW–Madison to become the chancellor in 1977. Shain retired from the university in 1986, and worked for the Olin Corporation until his retirement in 1992.\n\nShain died on March 6, 2018 after a brief illness.\n"}
{"id": "5559880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5559880", "title": "Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute", "text": "Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute\n\n\"Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute\", (formerly Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute) () renamed in the fond memory of visionary Prime Minister of India Shri Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru is an autonomous Institute established by the Government of Kerala on 17 November 1979 at Thiruvananthapuram, the capital city of Kerala. It functions under the umbrella of the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE), Government of Kerala. The Royal Botanic Gardens (RBG), Kew played an exemplary and significant role in shaping and designing the lay out of the JNTBGRI garden in its formative stages.\n\nThe Institute undertakes research in conservation biology, Biotechnology, plant taxonomy, microbiology, phytochemistry, ethnomedicine and ethnophamacology, which are the main areas considered to have immediate relevance to the development of the garden. While taxonomists prepared a flora of the garden documenting the native plant wealth before mass introduction and face lift which subsequently followed, the bio-technologists mass multiplied plants of commercial importance, especially orchids for cultivation and distribution to the public.\n\nJNTBGRI makes a comprehensive survey of the economic plant wealth of Kerala, to conserve, preserve and sustainably utilize the plant wealth. The institute carries out botanical, horticultural and chemical research for plant improvement and utilization; and offers facilities for the improvement of ornamental plants and propagation in the larger context of the establishment of nursery and flower trade. The cultivation and culturing of plants of India/other countries with comparable climatic condition for the economic benefit of Kerala/India is also taken care. Activities to help botanical teaching and to create public understanding of the value of plant research is initiated by JNTBGRI. JNTBGRI gardens medicinal plants, ornamental plants and various introduced plants of economic or aesthetic value. JNTBGRI also serves as a source of supply of improved plants which are not readily available from other agencies.\n\nScientific researches on plant wealth are pursued through the following Divisions:\n\n1. Garden Management, Education, Information and Training\n\n2. Plant Genetic Resources\n\n3. Biotechnology and Bioinformatics\n\n4. Conservation Biology\n\n5. Ethnomedicine and Ethnopharmacology\n\n6. Phytochemistry and Phytopharmacology\n\n7. Plant Systematics and Evolutionary Sciences\n\n8. Microbiology\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38130154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38130154", "title": "Johann Frederik Eijkman", "text": "Johann Frederik Eijkman\n\nJohan Fredrik Eykman or Johann Frederik Eijkman (19 January 1851 – 7 January 1915) was a Dutch chemist.\n\nHe is one of the eight children of Christiaan Eijkman, the headmaster of a local school, and Johanna Alida Pool. His brother Christiaan Eijkman (1858–1930) was a physician and professor of physiology whose demonstration that beriberi is caused by poor diet led to the discovery of vitamins. Together with Sir Frederick Hopkins, his brother received the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine.\n\nHe was hired during the Meiji period, a Japanese era which extended from September 1868 through July 1912. During his stay in Japan, he was the first to isolate shikimic acid in 1885 from the Japanese flower shikimi (シキミ, the Japanese star anise, \"Illicium anisatum\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53762552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53762552", "title": "John Brenkus", "text": "John Brenkus\n\nJohn Brenkus (born 1971) is an American producer, director, and television personality. He is the co-founder and co-CEO of BASE Productions, a production company that specializes in creating reality television programs for channels such as Spike, National Geographic and ESPN. His company's most popular programs include Fight Science and Sport Science, the latter of which he hosts. He also currently hosts his own podcast, \"The Brink of Midnight.\"\n\nBrenkus grew up in Vienna, Virginia, and attended James Madison High School where he played a variety of sports including football, basketball, baseball, and track and cross-country running from the time he was young; but was never amazing at any of it. In an interview with \"The Washington Post\" he said knowing \"his place\" set the tone for his appreciation of greatness. Regardless of his ability, he wanted to leave a legacy. He knew from a young age he wanted to be in entertainment. As school secretary in 1989, he created \"Mr. Madison,\" a pageant-dance that necessitated coming up with a cast, props and lights. The dance was still being held as of 2011.\n\nHe attended the University of Virginia, creating his own major, Film Rhetoric Communication Studies, and graduated with honors in three years. Before graduating, he told his mother, Rose, he wanted to do two of the hardest things he could think of: write a novel and make a movie.\n\nHe has stated in interviews that sports and science are his \"two greatest passions.\"\n\nDuring the early years of his career, Brenkus produced numerous short films and music video projects before launching full-time into film and television writing, production and direction.\n\nBrenkus serves as the co-CEO of BASE Productions alongside Michael Stern, as well as the host of Sport Science. As a producer of reality, documentary, and unscripted infotainment programming, BASE Productions uses a trademark motion-capture and CGI technology. The company has produced programming for a variety of channels, such as A&E, Animal Planet, the Discovery Channel networks, Fox Sports Net, G4, ESPN, HBO, MTV, National Geographic Channel and Spike TV. BASE Productions is located in Los Angeles and Washington DC.\n\n\"Sport Science\", created and hosted by Brenkus, was originally an hour-long show on Fox Sports Network. According to the \"Los Angeles Times\" when Sport Science first started on FSN in 2008. It's even considered educational; the show had a deal with Cable in the Classroom. Filmed inside a Los Angeles airport hangar or on location using a mobile laboratory, each episode of series 1 focused on testing certain aspects of athletics (such as human flight and reaction time). Series 2 either poses more questions from previous episodes, or tries to re-analyze sporting moments — like 2015's \"deflategate\" — or trials and tribulations and puts man against animals or machines. Since Sport Science moved to ESPN in 2010 for series 3, it has become a segmented show, featuring clips of all types of professional athletes. Brenkus makes a point of bringing them into the lab, often testing the limits of the human body. Brenkus also participated in experiments himself in cases where an \"average Joe\" was required.\n\nSport Science is actually a spin off that comes from the 2006 series \"Fight Science: Calculating the Ultimate Warrior,\" which emphasized more of the science than the fighting, on the National Geographic channel. After it did well on Nat Geo and sister network Fox, Micheal Stern says they immediately \"pitched the spinoff, applying the same visual style and scientific approach to all mainstream sports.\" When speaking to NPR in 2011 about the creativity that goes into creating Sport Science Brenkus says that it's a collaborative effort between the network, staff, athletes, and audience.He is always looking forward to learning something new, which is why he says in an interview with \"Tech Times\" that the latest episode of Sport Science is always his favorite.\n\nSport Science, which is produced by Brenkus' production company BASE Productions, was nominated for four Sports Emmy Awards in 2008 for Series 1, winning for Outstanding Graphic Design. Series 2 received even more accolades in 2009, being nominated for five Emmys and receiving two awards - again for Outstanding Graphic Design and also for Outstanding New Approaches in Sports Programming.\n\nIn 2010, Brenkus wrote \"The New York Times\" bestselling book \"The Perfection Point\". In the book, Brenkus sets out to discover exactly what those limits are for nine athletic events. The book details Brenkus's analysis of a wide variety of athletes to provide an in-depth look at the absolute limits of human performance. Brenkus finds the \"perfection point\" (the highest point physiologically possible for a human to attain based on physics and applied mathematics) for many aspects of human athleticism, focusing on the speeds, heights, distances, and times that humans will get closer to but never exceed. Combining scientific methodology with the fundamentals of each sport, Brenkus uncovers a variety of so-called perfection points, including the fastest mile and the heaviest bench press. In a 2013 interview with Mashable, Brenkus was asked whether or not humans will continue to keep accomplishing new levels of athletic achievement, or if there is a limit to what people are capable of athletically. He answers specifically from his book stating \"there obviously has to be a limit when you factor in what it means to be human, the rules of sports and what the human body is capable of. There are absolutely limits to how fast we can run, how high we can jump, how long we can hold our breath.\" When asked by \"Time\" what he wanted people to take away from his book, Brenkus said \"It's not about the destination but the journey. The Perfection Point is really about what are we as a species going to do as we try to achieve perfection.\"\nIn May 2017, Brenkus launched \"The Brink of Midnight\" podcast. The podcast consists of discussions with professional athletes and other celebrities about what they consider to be the most important moments of their career, which Brenkus refers to as \"Brink of Midnight moments.\" Notable guests of the podcast include Ray Lewis, Sharon Stone, Tony Hale, Haley Joel Osment, Bill Engvall, Larry Fitzgerald, Rob Riggle, Santonio Holmes, Marshawn Lynch, and Randy Couture.\n\nThe Brink of Midnight is also the name of a band which Brenkus created with his wife, Lizzie. They wrote a Christmas song that went viral, raised money for unite4:Good, and is still played on Sirius XM. This star-studded music video includes: Larry Fitzgerald, Kevin Love, Vernon Davis, Robert Griffin III, Ray Lewis, Jerry Rice, Trent Dilfer, Jeremy Lin.\n"}
{"id": "2735695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2735695", "title": "Judith Lapierre", "text": "Judith Lapierre\n\nJudith Lapierre is a professor in Nursing at the Université Laval. She studied at the International Space University in France.\n\nIn 1999, Lapierre accused two Russian cosmonauts of sexual harassment after a 110-day simulation of space station living. Among the claims were an unwarranted kiss during a New Year's Celebration; project coordinator Valery Gushin later claimed that her \"refusing to be kissed\" had been a leading cause for the experiment's failure. \n"}
{"id": "55921429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55921429", "title": "Julianna Lisziewicz", "text": "Julianna Lisziewicz\n\nJulianna Lisziewicz (born 1959) is a Hungarian immunologist. She is currently the President and CEO of TREOS Bio. Lisziewicz has headed many research teams that have discovered and produced immunotheraputic drugs to treat diseases like cancer and chronic infections like HIV/AIDS. Some of these drugs have been successfully used in clinical trials.\n\nLisziewicz graduated from Budapest University of Technology in Budapest, Hungary with an MSc in Chemistry and Biology in 1982. She went on to earn her Ph.D. in Molecular Biology at the Max-Planck Institute in Germany. Lisziewicz did post doctoral research at the Max-Planck Institute of Experimental Medicine from 1985-1989.\n\nLisziewicz worked at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) from 1989-1995. During her time working at the National Cancer Institute she was the Head of the Antiviral Unit at the Laboratory of Tumor Cell Biology.\n\nIn 1995, Lisziewicz and her colleague Franco Lori founded the Research Institute for Genetic and Human Therapy (RIGHT), where Lisziewicz worked as the Director. RIGHT is a non-profit organization based in the United States and Italy that funds research to develop immunologic technologies, create new therapies, and research vaccines for many chronic diseases like HIV/AIDS. RIGHT strives to quickly put their discoveries to use in patient treatments.\n\nLisziewicz founded Genetic Immunity, Inc., and worked as the President and the CEO of the company. Genetic Immunity is a private clinical-stage biotechnology company in the United States and Hungary. Genetic Immunity works to create and commercialize immunotherapeutic biologics to treat chronic viral infections, allergies, and cancers to prolong the life of the patient and improve their quality of life.\n\nLisziewicz is currently the President and Chief Scientific Officer of TREOS Bio, a company she founded in 2013. TREOS Bio is a company that develops precision vaccines to treat and prevent cancer using computational immune-oncology. TREOS Bio works to develop drugs to allow the human immune system to fight chronic diseases like cancer and HIV/AIDS.\n\nWhile working at the National Institute of Health, Lisziewicz worked to find a gene therapy approach to treat HIV/AIDS. She based her research on discovering if small portions of gene-stopping DNA (called antisense oligonucleotides) could be created to bind up the viral RNA in retroviruses like HIV so that the virus could not make more copies of itself to continue the infection. Small pieces of messenger RNA (or mRNA) carry a copy of the cell’s DNA to the ribosomes where the mRNA directs the ribosomes to create the proteins that the cells need. Viruses (like HIV) have their own set of mRNA, and they use the ribosomes of the cell they infected to make new viruses to propagate the infection throughout the body. Lisziewicz’s idea was to create antisense oligonucleotides that are complementary to the HIV’s viral mRNA. These complementary DNA pieces can bind to the HIV viral mRNA and prevent the HIV virus from replicating itself. The use of antisense oligonucleotides worked very well in cell cultures, and was quickly transferred to clinical trials.\n\nDermaVir immunotherapy was created during Lisziewicz’s research at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Maryland. She worked to produce gene and antisense therapies to treat HIV/AIDS, and researched how the immune system controls HIV in tissue culture and in monkey models. She applied these results to the treatment of HIV patients in clinical trials. Lisziewicz discovered and headed the preclinical and clinical development of DermaVir HIV immunotherapy. Under Lisziewicz’s direction, DermaVir successfully completed a Phase 2 clinical trial.\n\nDermaVir is a topical vaccine that is applied with a patch to the skin. It is a new immunization strategy that uses dendritic cells to increase viral antigen production. DermaVir contains a plasmid that expresses all of the HIV protiens except integrase. This stimulates an immune response to attack the cells infected with HIV.\n\nDermaVir has been proven safe and immunogenic in several clinical trials, one of which was in collaboration with the Division of AIDS (DAIDS). In one trial, Lisziewicz’s research team compared the immunogenicity of topical-based and ex vivo dendritic cell-based DermaVir in rhesus macaques. As a result it was discovered that both vaccinations induced CD4 helper T cells and CD8 memory T cells that are specific to simian immunodeficiency virus. The CD4 helper T cells and CD8 memory T cells were identified using an in vivo skin test and an in vitro intracellular cytokine-based assay. The topical DermaVir vaccine is an improvement upon the ex vivo dendritic cell- based immunization that could offer a new alternative therapy for patients with HIV.\n\nAnother investigation Lisziewicz is involved with is how human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes regulate immune responses. This research led to the development of computational immune-oncology technology that can determine a patient’s natural T cell response to tumor antigens. This technology is the first of its kind. As a result, Lisciewicz and her team found there was a correlation between a patient’s HLA gene sequence and how well their immunotherapies worked. PolyPEPI™ immunotherapies to treat lung cancer, breast cancer, and colorectal cancer were created using the computational immune-oncology. The technology was also used to find other types of cancer that would likely respond to these treatments. The company TREOS Bio, that Lisziewicz founded, is clinically developing these immunotherapies to cure cancers by using these personalized treatments to cure each patient’s specific disease.\n\nLangerhans cells are a natural agent of antigen release. They are the precursors of dendritic cells in the skin and mucosa. Lisziewicz and her team developed synthetic nanoparticles that act like pathogens and specially target Langerhans cells in epidermal cell cultures. When these nanoparticles are applied topically to human subjects, a strong immune response was observed. This vaccine has been clinically proven, and it opens the door for more new dendritic cell-targeting vaccines to be created for the treatment of cancers.\n"}
{"id": "27163466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27163466", "title": "Jungle Animals", "text": "Jungle Animals\n\nJungle Animals was Frank Buck’s eighth book, written with Ferrin Fraser, describing some of the animals, birds, and reptiles of the jungle, which Buck had come in contact with in his years of travel around the world. The lavishly illustrated book was intended for schoolchildren grades five to eight.\nA children’s book illustrator, Roger Vernam (1912–1992), was the artist.\n\n\"Large and beautifully illustrated by Roger Vernam, this book is authoritative and fascinating...Best for the pre-high school age, but would interest all.\" \n"}
{"id": "31135767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31135767", "title": "List of largest reservoirs in the United States", "text": "List of largest reservoirs in the United States\n\nThis is a list of largest reservoirs in the United States, including all artificial lakes with a capacity greater than or equal to . Figures given are for maximum storage capacity (flood pool) of reservoirs, not regular storage volume (conservation pool). This difference is significant in reservoirs such as Kentucky Lake, whose full capacity is nearly three times that of its conservation pool.\n\nDue to sedimentation and other factors that affect a reservoir's storage capacity over time, some data listed might not accurately reflect actual current conditions in certain reservoirs. For example, Lake Mead – the largest reservoir in the U.S. – could store more than 32.4 million acre-feet (40.1 km) when first filled, but sediment accumulation has reduced this to 28.9 million acre-feet (35.7 km).\n\n"}
{"id": "254243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254243", "title": "List of sociologists", "text": "List of sociologists\n\nThis is a list of sociologists. It is intended to cover those who have made substantive contributions to social theory and research, including any sociological subfield. Scientists in other fields and philosophers are not included, unless at least some of their work is defined as being specifically sociological in nature.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "237167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237167", "title": "Loaded language", "text": "Loaded language\n\nLoaded language (also known as loaded terms, emotive language, high-inference language and language-persuasive techniques) is rhetoric used to influence an audience by using words and phrases with strong connotations associated with them in order to invoke an emotional response and/or exploit stereotypes..\n\nLoaded words and phrases have significant emotional implications and involve strongly positive or negative reactions beyond their literal meaning. For example, the phrase \"tax relief\" refers literally to changes that reduce the amount of tax citizens must pay. However, use of the emotive word \"relief\" implies that taxation is an inherently unreasonable burden. Another example of loaded language is the question \"Do you really want to associate with those people?\", which implies a sense of disapproval from the speaker.\n\nLoaded terms, also called emotive or ethical words, were clearly described by Charles Stevenson. He noticed that there are words that do not merely describe a possible state of affairs. \"Terrorist\" is not used only to refer to a person who commits specific actions with a specific intent. Words such as \"torture\" or \"freedom\" carry with them something more than a simple description of a concept or an action. They have a \"magnetic\" effect, an imperative force, a tendency to influence the interlocutor's decisions. They are strictly bound to moral values leading to value judgments and potentially triggering specific emotions. For this reason, they have an emotive dimension. In the modern psychological terminology, we can say that these terms carry \"emotional valence\", as they presuppose and generate a value judgment that can lead to an emotion.\n\nThe appeal to emotion is often seen as being in contrast to an appeal to logic and reason. Authors R. Malcolm Murray and Nebojša Kujundžić distinguish \"\"prima facie\" reasons\" from \"considered reasons\" when discussing this. An emotion, elicited via emotive language, may form a \"prima facie\" reason for action, but further work is required before one can obtain a \"considered\" reason.\n\nEmotive arguments and loaded language are particularly persuasive because they exploit the human weakness for acting immediately based upon an emotional response, \"without\" such further considered judgment. Due to such potential for emotional complication, it is generally advised to avoid loaded language in argument or speech when fairness and impartiality is one of the goals. Anthony Weston, for example, admonishes students and writers: \"In general, avoid language whose only function is to sway the emotions\".\n\nPoliticians cultivate loaded language, and often study how to use it effectively: which words to use or avoid using to gain political advantage or disparage an opponent. Heller gives the example that it is common for a politician to advocate \"investment in public services\", because it has a more favorable connotation than \"public spending\".\n\nOne aspect of loaded language is that loaded words and phrases occur in pairs, sometimes as political framing techniques by individuals with opposing agendas. Heller calls these \"a Boo! version and a Hooray! version\" to differentiate those with negative and positive emotional connotations. Examples include \"bureaucrat\" versus \"public servant\", \"anti-choice\" versus \"pro-life\", \"regime\" versus \"government\", and \"elitist\" versus \"expert\".\n\nIn the 1946 essay \"Politics and the English Language\", George Orwell discussed the use of loaded language in political discourse.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2434383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2434383", "title": "Local reference frame", "text": "Local reference frame\n\nIn theoretical physics, a local reference frame (local frame) refers to a coordinate system or frame of reference that is only expected to function over a small region or a restricted region of space or spacetime. \n\nThe term is most often used in the context of the application of local inertial frames to small regions of a gravitational field. Although gravitational tidal forces will cause the background geometry to become noticeably non-Euclidean over larger regions, if we restrict ourselves to a sufficiently small region containing a cluster of objects falling together in an \"effectively\" uniform gravitational field, their physics can be described as the physics of that cluster in a space free from explicit background gravitational effects.\n\nWhen constructing his general theory of relativity, Einstein made the following observation: a freely falling object in a gravitational field will not be able to detect the existence of the field by making local measurements (\"a falling man feels no gravity\"). Einstein was then able to complete his general theory by arguing that the physics of curved spacetime must reduce over small regions to the physics of simple inertial mechanics (in this case special relativity) for small freefalling regions.\nEinstein referred to this as \"the happiest idea of my life\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30407970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30407970", "title": "Lukacs Distinguished Professor", "text": "Lukacs Distinguished Professor\n\nThe Lukacs Distinguished Professor chair was established in 1989 by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Bowling Green State University in honor of Eugene Lukacs, who came to Bowling Green with his colleagues Radha Laha and Vijay Rohatgi in 1972 to establish the doctoral program in statistics. Eugene Lukacs was Bowling Green's first Distinguished University Professor.\n\nEach year an outstanding senior researcher in probability or statistics is invited to serve as the Eugene Lukacs Distinguished Visiting Professor during the academic year or a semester. The Lukacs Professors are invited based on their distinguished record of research in the application or theory of probability or statistics. The Lukacs professor typically collaborates with current faculty on research, participates in seminars and colloquia, and typically gives a graduate course or presents a series of related seminars. Lukacs Professors have organized Lukacs Symposia on a variety of topics in probability and statistics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "479108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479108", "title": "Mamoru Mohri", "text": "Mamoru Mohri\n\n, AM is a Japanese scientist, a former NASDA astronaut, and a veteran of two NASA space shuttle missions.\n\nBorn in Yoichi, Hokkaidō, Japan, Mohri earned degrees in chemistry from Hokkaido University and a Doctorate from Flinders University in Adelaide, South Australia, in 1976.\n\nMost of Mohri's work has been in the field of materials and vacuum sciences. From 1975 to 1985, Mohri was a member of the nuclear engineering faculty of Hokkaido University, where he worked on nuclear fusion-related projects.\n\nMohri was selected by the National Space Development Agency of Japan (now JAXA) to train as a payload specialist for a Japanese materials science payload. He flew his first space mission aboard STS-47 in 1992 as chief payload specialist for Spacelab-J. Mohri subsequently made another trip into space as part of mission STS-99 in 2000.\n\nAs of 2007, Mohri is the Executive Director for the Miraikan, the National Museum of Emerging Science and Innovation in Tokyo.\n\nOn 16 March 2006 Mohri was appointed an Honorary Member of the Order of Australia (AM), “for service to Australia-Japan education and science relations.”\n\n"}
{"id": "22684836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22684836", "title": "Matvei Petrovich Bronstein", "text": "Matvei Petrovich Bronstein\n\nMatvei Petrovich Bronstein (, , Vinnytsia – February 18, 1938) was a Soviet theoretical physicist, a pioneer of quantum gravity, author of works in astrophysics, semiconductors, quantum electrodynamics and cosmology, as well as of a number of books in popular science for children.\n\nHe introduced the cGh scheme for classifying physical theories. \"After the relativistic quantum theory is created, the task will be to develop the next part of our scheme, that is to unify quantum theory (with its constant h), special relativity (with constant c), and the theory of gravitation (with its G) into a single theory.\"\n\nHe was married to Lydia Chukovskaya, a writer, prominent human rights activist, and a friend of Andrei Sakharov.\n\nDuring the Great Purge, in August 1937 Bronstein was arrested. He was convicted by a list trial (\"по списку\") in February 1938 and executed the same day in a Leningrad prison. His wife was told that he was sentenced to 10 years of labor camps without the right of correspondence.\n\nBronstein's books for children \"Solar matter\" (Солнечное вещество), \"X Rays\" (Лучи X), \"Inventors of Radio\" (Изобретатели радио) were republished after he had been rehabilitated in 1957.\n\nThe \"Bronstein Prize in Loop Quantum Gravity\" is offered to Post-doctoral scholars in the field, the inaugural winner of which was Eugenio Bianchi in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "3120701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3120701", "title": "Ole Aanderud Larsen", "text": "Ole Aanderud Larsen\n\nOle Aanderud Larsen (December 18, 1884 – October 6, 1964) was a ship designer and businessman from Norway.\n\nLarsen was born in Tønsberg and died in Sandefjord, in the county of Vestfold. Larsen is best known for designing the \"Endurance,\" the three-masted barquentine in which Sir Ernest Shackleton sailed for the Antarctic on the Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition in 1914.\n\nLarsen was the first chairman and one of the founders of Jotun Group Private Ltd., a company started by Odd Gleditsch to sell specialized paints and coatings to the shipping industry.\nJotun has since expanded worldwide and now sells a diverse range of paints and coatings for all kind of industries.\n\n"}
{"id": "31915311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31915311", "title": "Open science data", "text": "Open science data\n\nOpen science data is a type of open data focused on publishing observations and results of scientific activities available for anyone to analyze and reuse. A major purpose of the drive for open data is to allow the verification of scientific claims, by allowing others to look at the reprodubility of results, and to allow data from many sources to be integrated to give new knowledge. While the \"idea\" of open science data has been actively promoted since the 1950s, the rise of the Internet has significantly lowered the cost and time required to publish or obtain data.\n\nThe concept of open access to scientific data was institutionally established with the formation of the World Data Center system (now the World Data System), in preparation for the International Geophysical Year of 1957–1958. The International Council of Scientific Unions (now the International Council for Science) established several World Data Centers to minimize the risk of data loss and to maximize data accessibility, further recommending in 1955 that data be made available in machine-readable form.\n\nThe first initiative to create a database of electronic bibliography of open access data was the Educational Resources Information Center (ERIC) in 1966. In the same year, MEDLINE was created – a free access online database managed by the National Library of Medicine and the National Institute of Health (USA) with bibliographical citations from journals in the biomedical area, which later would be called PubMed, currently with over 14 million complete articles.\n\nIn 1995 GCDIS (US) put its position clearly in \n\"On the Full and Open Exchange of Scientific Data\" (A publication of the Committee on Geophysical and Environmental Data - National Research Council):\n\nThe last phrase highlights the traditional cost of disseminating information by print and post. It is the removal of this cost through the Internet which has made data vastly easier to disseminate technically. It is correspondingly cheaper to create, sell and control many data resources and this has led to the current concerns over non-open data.\n\nMore recent uses of the term include:\n\n\nIn 2004, the Science Ministers of all nations of the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development), which includes most developed countries of the world, signed a declaration which essentially states that all publicly funded archive data should be made publicly available. Following a request and an intense discussion with data-producing institutions in member states, the OECD published in 2007 the \"OECD Principles and Guidelines for Access to Research Data from Public Funding\" as a \"soft-law\" recommendation.\n\nIn 2005 Edd Dumbill introduced an “Open Data” theme in XTech, including:\n\nIn 2006 Science Commons ran a 2-day conference in Washington where the primary topic could be described as Open Data. It was reported that the amount of micro-protection of data (e.g. by license) in areas such as biotechnology was creating a Tragedy of the anticommons. In this the costs of obtaining licenses from a large number of owners made it uneconomic to do research in the area.\n\nIn 2007 SPARC and Science Commons announced a consolidation and enhancement of their author addenda.\n\nIn 2007 the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) published the Principles and Guidelines for Access to Research Data from Public Funding. The Principles state that:\nAccess to research data increases the returns from public investment in this area; reinforces open scientific inquiry; encourages diversity of studies and opinion; promotes new areas of work and enables the exploration of topics not envisioned by the initial investigators.\n\nIn 2010 the Panton Principles launched, advocating Open Data in science and setting out for principles to which providers must comply to have their data Open.\n\nIn 2011 LinkedScience.org was launched to realize the approach of the Linked Open Science to openly share and interconnect scientific assets like datasets, methods, tools and vocabularies.\n\nIn 2012, the Royal Society published a major report, \"Science as an Open Enterprise\", advocating open scientific data and considering its benefits and requirements.\n\nIn 2013 the G8 Science Ministers released a Statement supporting a set of principles for open scientific research data\n\nIn 2015 the World Data System of the International Council for Science adopted a new set of Data Sharing Principles to embody the spirit of 'open science'. These Principles are in line with data policies of national and international initiatives and they express core ethical commitments operationalized in the WDS Certification of trusted data repositories and service.\n\nMuch data is made available through scholarly publication, which now attracts intense debate under \"Open Access\" and semantically open formats – like to offer the scientific articles in JATS format. The Budapest Open Access Initiative (2001) coined this term:\n\nBy \"open access\" to this literature, we mean its free availability on the public internet, permitting any users to read, download, copy, distribute, print, search, or link to the full texts of these articles, crawl them for indexing, pass them as data to software, or use them for any other lawful purpose, without financial, legal, or technical barriers other than those inseparable from gaining access to the internet itself. The only constraint on reproduction and distribution, and the only role for copyright in this domain, should be to give authors control over the integrity of their work and the right to be properly acknowledged and cited.\nThe logic of the declaration permits re-use of the data although the term \"literature\" has connotations of human-readable text and can imply a scholarly publication process. In Open Access discourse the term \"full-text\" is often used which does not emphasize the data contained within or accompanying the publication.\n\nSome Open Access publishers do not require the authors to assign copyright and the data associated with these publications can normally be regarded as Open Data. Some publishers have Open Access strategies where the publisher requires assignment of the copyright and where it is unclear that the data in publications can be truly regarded as Open Data.\n\nThe ALPSP and STM publishers have issued a statement about the desirability of making data freely available:\n\nPublishers recognise that in many disciplines data itself, in various forms, is now a key output of research. Data searching and mining tools permit increasingly sophisticated use of raw data. Of course, journal articles provide one ‘view’ of the significance and interpretation of that data – and conference presentations and informal exchanges may provide other ‘views’ – but data itself is an increasingly important community resource. Science is best advanced by allowing as many scientists as possible to have access to as much prior data as possible; this avoids costly repetition of work, and allows creative new integration and reworking of existing data.\n\nand\n\nWe believe that, as a general principle, data sets, the raw data outputs of research, and sets or sub-sets of that data which are submitted with a paper to a journal, should wherever possible be made freely accessible to other scholars. We believe that the best practice for scholarly journal publishers is to separate supporting data from the article itself, and not to require any transfer of or ownership in such data or data sets as a condition of publication of the article in question.\n\nEven though this statement was without any effect on the open availability of primary data related to publications in journals of the ALPSP and STM members. Data tables provided by the authors as supplement with a paper are still available to subscribers only.\n\nIn an effort to address issues with the reproducibility of research results, some scholars are asking that authors agree to share their raw data as part of the scholarly peer review process. As far back as 1962, for example, a number of psychologists have attempted to obtain raw data sets from other researchers, with mixed results, in order to reanalyze them. A recent attempt resulted in only seven data sets out of fifty requests. The notion of obtaining, let alone requiring, open data as a condition of peer review remains controversial.\n\nTo make sense of scientific data they must be analysed. In all but the simplest cases, this is done by software. The extensive use of software poses problems for the reproducibility of research. To keep research reproducible, it is necessary to publish not only all data, but also the source code of all software used, and all the parametrization used in running this software. Presently, these requests are rarely ever met. Ways to come closer to reproducible scientific computation are discussed under the catchword \"open research computation\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12274597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12274597", "title": "Otto Dimroth", "text": "Otto Dimroth\n\nOtto Dimroth (28 March 1872 – 16 May 1940) was a German chemist. He is known for the Dimroth rearrangement, as well as a type of condenser with an internal double spiral, the Dimroth condenser.\n\nHis son Karl Dimroth was also a renowned chemist, who described the first synthesis of 3-benzoxepin.\n"}
{"id": "42073694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42073694", "title": "Otto Garlepp", "text": "Otto Garlepp\n\nOtto Garlepp (20 August 1864, Cörmigk – 25 November 1959, Köthen), was a German naturalist and with his brother Gustav Garlepp (1862–1907) a professional collector.\n\nThe brothers Otto Garlepp and Gustav Garlepp are honoured in the butterfly name \"Papilio garleppi\", the bird name \"Compsospiza garleppi\" the mammal name Garlepp's mouse, a subspecies of the Pampas cat and another of Darwin's rhea amongst many others. They were professional collectors in South America from 1883. At first Gustav worked alone, arriving in Brazil where there were many people of German descent (\"Deutschbrasilianer\") to collect insects for Dresden Zoological Museum. Gustav returned to Germany in 1892 following 4 years in Peru, a short trip to Germany and then an expedition to Bolivia. He returned to Bolivia in 1893 with his wife and Otto. He visited Germany for the last time in 1900 when he demonstrated 600 Neotropical bird species at a meeting of the Deutsche Ornithologen-Gesellschaft in Leipzig.Gustav Garlepp settled in Paraguay in 1901. He was murdered there in 1907. Otto returned to Germany in 1911. He married Elise Ida Schulz in Germany and the couple returned to South America. Otto's collecting ceased in 1913.\n\nThe Garlepp zoological specimens are from Bolivia, Peru Colombia, Panama, Costa Rica Paraguay, Chile and Argentina.Many are holotypes.\n\n4,000 Garlepp bird skins were purchased by Hans von Berlepsch who had trained Otto and who described the new species.The specimens are now in Naturmuseum Senckenberg and Naturhistorisches Museum Braunschweig.Further specimens are in Naumann Museum, Köthener Schloss (Website).Oology specimens are held by the Staatliches Museum für Tierkunde in Dresden (from the collection of Maximilian Kuschel), and by Naturhistorisches Museum in Vienna (from the collection of Josef Seilern (1883–1939)). Mammal specimens are in Museum für Naturkunde in Berlin. Butterflies went to the dealership Otto Staudinger. These are now widely dispersed as are insects of other orders.\n\n"}
{"id": "30127701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30127701", "title": "Peenemünde", "text": "Peenemünde\n\nPeenemünde (, ) is a municipality on the Baltic Sea island of Usedom in the Vorpommern-Greifswald district in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany. It is part of the \"Amt\" (municipal confederation) of Usedom-Nord. The community is known for the Peenemünde Army Research Center, where the world's first functional large-scale liquid-propellant rocket, the V-2, was developed.\n\nThe village with its seaport is located on the westernmost extremity of a long sand-spit, where the Peene empties into the Baltic Sea, in the northwestern part of Usedom Island. To the southeast it borders on the sea resort of Karlshagen.\n\nPeenemünde harbour can be reached by ferry boat across the Peene from Kröslin, liners also run along the Baltic coast to Rügen Island. The local railway station is the northern terminus of the \"Usedomer Bäderbahn\" line to Zinnowitz. Air service for the village is available at the Peenemünde Airfield.\n\nDuring the 10th and 11th centuries, Peenemünde was part of the region of Circipania, an area settled by the Circipanes, a West Slavic tribe constituent of the Lutici federation. Circipania was incorporated into the Billung March of the Holy Roman Empire in 936, but the Empire's influence in the region decayed by the end of that century after a successful Slavic uprising. During the late 12th century, in the aftermath of the Wendish Crusade, the region fell under the rule of the Duchy of Pomerania. After the Treaty of Kremmen in 1236, most of Circipania was transferred to the Margraviate of Brandenburg.\n\nIn World War II, the area was highly involved in the development and production of the V-2 rocket, until the production's relocation to Nordhausen. The village's docks were used for the ships which recovered V-2 wreckage from test launches over the Baltic Sea. German scientists such as Wernher von Braun, who worked at the V-2 facility, were known as \"Peenemünders\". The entire island was captured by the Soviet Red Army on 5 May 1945. The gas plant for the production of liquid oxygen still lies in ruins at the entrance to Peenemünde.\n\nThe post-war port was a Soviet naval base until turned over to the armed forces of East Germany in 1952. The seaport facilities were used at first by the East German \"Seepolizei\" (sea police) after new facilities for police motorboats had been built. On 1 December 1956 the headquarters of the First Fleet of the East German People's Navy was established at Peenemünde.\n\nThe birthplace of modern rocket science is today displayed at the Peenemünde Historical Technical Museum, a World War II museum on the European Route of Industrial Heritage opened in 1992 in the power station of the former Army Testing Site and the area of the World War II power station (now part of the village) – exhibits include a V-1 and a V-2.\n\n"}
{"id": "17178060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17178060", "title": "Photoanalysis", "text": "Photoanalysis\n\nPhotoanalysis (or photo analysis) refers to the study of pictures to compile various types of data, for example, to measure the size distribution of virtually anything that can be captured by photo. Photoanalysis technology has changed the way mines and mills quantify fragmented material.\n\nImages are a good way to document conditions before, after, and even during blasting activities. The technology is advancing at a high rate, and lenses, storage media memory, light sensitivity and resolution have been improving steadily. Today's digital cameras and camcorders include high-resolution optics, compact size, automatic time and date stamps, good battery life, shutters to freeze motion, and computers to autofocus and eliminate jitter using image stabilization.\n\nPhotoanalysis in mining operations can provide an automated system that forewarns a company of potential problems with materials, leading to economies and reduced damage caused from over-sized materials. It can also help determine the effectiveness of blasts.\n\nA company can use this technology to monitor materials moving on a conveyor belt in an underground environment, to measure piles left over from a blast, and even measure the amount of material being carried by dump trucks or vessels to a destination.\n\nPhotoanalysis is being used on SAG mills worldwide to control the size of rock being crushed. Companies are using this technology to determine the size of particles being processed in the SAG Mill. Having oversize material entering the SAG mill makes an operation less efficient, costing companies money in electrical and maintenance costs. Photoanalysis technology can eliminate unwanted material before it enters the mill, keeping rock crushing costs low. \n\nWood chip size can affect the overall quality of a product. With automated photoanalysis systems, companies can remove any unwanted wrong-size particles without stopping their mill process.\n\nPhotoanalysis can affect how efficiently forestry companies operate. In mills worldwide, photoanalysis technology is improving the use of lumber products, cutting back on the amount of trees being used to operate, and saving companies money through quality control optimization.\n\nWith the current downturn in the North American forestry industry, operators are looking at making their mills more efficient and effective when processing materials. Photoanalysis technology helps identify any weaknesses in the process by continuously monitoring different sections of an operation.\n\nAgricultural companies can, using photoanalysis, monitor conveyor belts of food without contaminating the product by touching it. Other benefits of photoanalysis systems include:\n\n\nThe importance of photoanalysis technology is being noticed by the agricultural industry as it identifies any unwanted materials going through the process. In an example, if a mouse is on a conveyor of corn, photoanalysis technology would be able to identify the unwanted object and remove it before it contaminates the whole process.\n\nPhotoanalysis technology was created by using the Waterloo Image Enhancement Process in the 1980s. After further development of the imaging process with explosives producer DuPont, engineers Tom Palangio and Takis Katsabanis began selling photoanalysis software commercially. They later renamed the process WipFrag, standing for Waterloo Image Process Fragmentation\n\nToday, photoanalysis technology has evolved into stabilized and portable systems that can automatically capture and analyze results instantly. Thousands of these products are currently being used around the world to measure fragmented material.\n\nFragmentation analysis is becoming a popular term in mining, agricultural and forestry industries. With the majority of money in these industries directed towards the proper sizing of materials, companies are using fragmentation analysis to determine various factors within an operation.\n\nThe two main ways a company keeps track of fragmented material are through manual and automated sieving procedures. Manual sieving involves extracting a sample of material to analyze the size distribution. The results can be tabulated within two days. Automated sieving is an advanced way of sieving materials running through a process. Without having to extract the material, photoanalysis can take place, allowing for immediate results with pinpoint accuracy.\nOperators are using fragmentation analysis to determine the effectiveness of various blasts. With automated sieving technology, workers can track the success of these blasts and receive instant results. Companies are using these results to determine what blasting method yielded the best results for their specific operation. The common variables associated with blast optimization are the provided Particle Size Distribution (PSD) from a shovel fragmentation system, geology including rock type and fracturing, and energy factor.\n\nBy using photoanalysis the fragmented materials can be monitored, offering pinpoint accuracy and allowing mine operators to make adjustments to future blasting procedures. See Optical Granulometry to view the automated sieving process.\nMaintenance costs can be significantly reduced if an operation focuses on the fragmentation of the particles passing through their process. Automated sieving systems can detect and help remove any oversize material before it enters the crusher and causes maintenance problems. It also helps determine the effectiveness of the mining process prior to crushing; the sizing of material is always a critical part of operations in the mining, forestry and agricultural industries.\n\nHaving an analysis taking place at every major point in an operation allows for the proper tracking of material being processed. Engineers can then determine what part of the process needs improving based solely on the size of material. \n\nMeasuring how effective industrial crushers are can help save a company millions of dollars in energy costs on an annual basis. There are two components that affect a typical crusher: the size of the material inputted, and the speed at which the crusher is moving. If the user can find a perfect balance between these two components, the materials will be crushed to the right size in the shortest time possible.\n\nMeeting the material standards set by governments and large companies can be hard. Having a post-crushing analysis taking place ensures that no oversize material gets shipped; eliminating the chance of getting fined for not meeting industry specifications.\n\nHousehold energy consumption estimate:\n\nSAG Mill energy consumption estimate:\n\n"}
{"id": "198711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198711", "title": "Rancidification", "text": "Rancidification\n\nRancidity is the complete or incomplete oxidation or hydrolysis of fats and oils when exposed to air, light, moisture or by bacterial action, resulting in unpleasant taste and odor. Specifically, it is the hydrolysis or autoxidation of fats into short-chain aldehydes and ketones, which are objectionable in taste and odor. When these processes occur in food, undesirable odors and flavors can result. In certain cases, however, the flavors can be desirable (as in aged cheeses). In processed meats, these flavors are collectively known as warmed-over flavor. Rancidification can also detract from the nutritional value of food, as some vitamins are sensitive to oxidation. Similar to rancidification, oxidative degradation also occurs in other hydrocarbons, such as lubricating oils, fuels, and mechanical cutting fluids.\n\nThree pathways for rancidification are recognized:\n\nHydrolytic rancidity refers to the odor that develops when triglycerides are hydrolyzed and free fatty acids are released. This reaction of lipid with water may require a catalyst, leading to the formation of free fatty acids and glycerol. In particular, short-chain fatty acids, such as butyric acid, are malodorous. When short-chain fatty acids are produced, they serve as catalysts themselves, further accelerating the reaction, a form of autocatalysis.\n\nOxidative rancidity is associated with the degradation by oxygen in the air. The double bonds of an unsaturated fatty acid can be cleaved by free-radical reactions involving molecular oxygen. This reaction causes the release of malodorous and highly volatile aldehydes and ketones. Because of the nature of free-radical reactions, the reaction is catalyzed by sunlight. Oxidation primarily occurs with unsaturated fats. For example, even though meat is held under refrigeration or in a frozen state, the poly-unsaturated fat will continue to oxidize and slowly become rancid. The fat oxidation process, potentially resulting in rancidity, begins immediately after the animal is slaughtered and the muscle, intra-muscular, inter-muscular and surface fat becomes exposed to oxygen of the air. This chemical process continues during frozen storage, though more slowly at lower temperature. Oxidative rancidity can be prevented by light-proof packaging, oxygen-free atmosphere (air-tight containers) and by the addition of antioxidants.\n\nMicrobial rancidity refers to a process in which microorganisms, such as bacteria or molds, use their enzymes such as lipases to break down fat. Sterilization can reduce this process.\n\nConsuming rancid food products is unlikely to cause immediate illness or harm, although rancidification can reduce the nutritional value of food by degradation of nutrients.\n\nAntioxidants are often used as preservatives in fat-containing foods to delay the onset or slow the development of rancidity due to oxidation. Natural antioxidants include ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and tocopherols (vitamin E). Synthetic antioxidants include butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), TBHQ, propyl gallate and ethoxyquin. The natural antioxidants tend to be short-lived, so synthetic antioxidants are used when a longer shelf-life is preferred. The effectiveness of water-soluble antioxidants is limited in preventing direct oxidation within fats, but is valuable in intercepting free radicals that travel through the aqueous parts of foods. A combination of water-soluble and fat-soluble antioxidants is ideal, usually in the ratio of fat to water.\n\nIn addition, rancidification can be decreased by storing fats and oils in a cool, dark place with little exposure to oxygen or free radicals, since heat and light accelerate the rate of reaction of fats with oxygen. Antimicrobial agents can also delay or prevent rancidification by inhibiting the growth of bacteria or other micro-organisms that affect the process.\nOxygen scavenging technology can be used to remove oxygen from food packaging and therefore prevent oxidative rancidification.\n\nOxidative stability is a measure of oil or fat resistance to oxidation. Because the process takes place through a chain reaction, the oxidation reaction has a period when it is relatively slow, before it suddenly speeds up. The time for this to happen is called the \"induction time\", and it is repeatable under identical conditions (temperature, air flow, etc.). There are a number of ways to measure the progress of the oxidation reaction. One of the most popular methods currently in use is the Rancimat method.\n\nThe Rancimat method is carried out using an air current at temperatures between 50 and 220 °C. The volatile oxidation products (largely formic acid) are carried by the air current into the measuring vessel, where they are absorbed (dissolve) in the measuring fluid (distilled water). By continuous measurement of the conductivity of this solution, oxidation curves can be generated. The cusp point of the oxidation curve (the point where a rapid rise in the conductivity starts) gives the induction time of the rancidification reaction, and can be taken as an indication of the oxidative stability of the sample.\n\nThe Rancimat method, the oxidative stability instrument (OSI) and the oxidograph were all developed as automatic versions of the more complicated AOM (active oxygen method), which is based on measuring peroxide values, for determining the induction time of fats and oils. Over time, the Rancimat method has become established, and it has been accepted into a number of national and international standards, for example AOCS Cd 12b-92 and ISO 6886.\n\n"}
{"id": "36247158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36247158", "title": "Robert Damon", "text": "Robert Damon\n\nRobert Damon (1814 – 4 May 1889) was an English conchologist and geologist.\n\nDamon was at first a hosier and glover but with his son Robert Ferris Damon (1845–1929) he established a dealership in natural history specimens in Weymouth. The company supplied museums throughout North and South America, Australia and Europe with much Dorset geological material from the late 1840s to 1914. In 1860 Damon wrote \"Geology of Weymouth and the Isles of Portland; with Notes on the Natural History of the Coast and Neighbourhood\" which includes a map of the district, geological sections, plates of fossils, and coast views, in 1884 a second edition with archaeological notes was published. He also wrote (and published himself in 1857) \"A catalogue of the shells of Great Britain and Ireland with their synonyms and authorities\".\n\nDamon died aged 75 at his museum in Weymouth from heart disease.\n\nThe species \"Amoria damonii\" Gray, and \"Paramelania damoni\" were named in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21084732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21084732", "title": "Sara Shettleworth", "text": "Sara Shettleworth\n\nSara Shettleworth is an American-born, Canadian experimental psychologist and zoologist. Her research focusses on animal cognition. She is a professor of psychology and ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of Toronto.\n\nShettleworth's research focuses on adaptive specializations of learning and the evolution of cognition. She has been a Guggenheim Fellow, a Visiting Fellow at Magdalen College, Oxford University, and an American Psychological Association Distinguished Scientist Lecturer. Her research has been supported continuously since 1974 by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada.\n\nShettleworth was honoured by the Comparative Cognition Society at their 2008 annual meeting for her contributions to the study of animal cognition. In 2012 the Canadian Society For Brain, Behaviour and Cognitive Science honoured her with the Donald Hebb award for her distinguished contributions to psychological science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1724875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1724875", "title": "She Blinded Me with Science", "text": "She Blinded Me with Science\n\n\"She Blinded Me with Science\" is a song by the English musician Thomas Dolby, released in 1982. It was first released as a single in the UK in October 1982 and was subsequently included on the EP \"Blinded by Science\" and the second edition of Dolby's debut album \"The Golden Age of Wireless\".\n\nAlthough viewed as a success in the United States, peaking at No. 5 in the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and 2 weeks at No. 1 in Canada's RPM Magazine, the song barely managed to score among the Top 50 in Dolby's native United Kingdom, peaking at No. 49 in the UK Singles Chart.\n\nDolby is often considered a one-hit wonder in the United States on the basis of the song's chart success there. In 2002, US cable television network VH1 named \"She Blinded Me with Science\" No. 20 on its list of the \"100 Greatest One-hit Wonders\". While the song is Dolby's only Top 40 single on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, he has had other songs that scored on the music charts. In 2006, VH1 placed it at No. 76 on their list of \"Greatest Songs of the '80s\". Then, in 2009, it ranked No. 13 on VH1's \"100 Greatest One Hit Wonders of the 80s\".\n\nThe song features interjections from the British scientist and TV presenter Magnus Pyke, who repeatedly interjects \"Science!\" and delivers other lines in a deliberately over-the-top mad scientist voice, such as, \"Good heavens, Miss Sakamoto, you're beautiful!\"\n\nIn the music video, directed and shot entirely by Dolby, Dolby commits himself to the Home for Deranged Scientists. Various mad scientist types operate fanciful inventions on the grounds of the home and act insane with normal scientific items. Throughout the course of the video, Magnus Pyke (as the Home Doctor) tries to diagnose his ailment, all the while being seduced by Miss Sakamoto, a secretary in the home.\n\nDolby saw music videos with story lines as \"short silent films with a soundtrack\". The video for \"She Blinded Me with Science\" was conceived and storyboarded before the song was written. Dolby added the song title and then wrote the song to fit the planned video. He then directed the music video.\n\nThe song was used in the video game \"\", as a collectible. The song was also sampled by Mobb Deep in their song \"Got It Twisted\". Thomas Dolby approved the sample to be used by The Alchemist, who produced the track.\n\n"}
{"id": "850579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850579", "title": "Social exchange theory", "text": "Social exchange theory\n\nSocial exchange theory is a social psychological and sociological perspective that explains social change and stability as a process of negotiated exchanges between parties. Social exchange theory posits that human relationships are formed by the use of a subjective cost-benefit analysis and the comparison of alternatives. The theory has roots in economics, psychology and sociology. Social exchange theory features many of the main assumptions found in rational choice theory and structuralism.\nIt is also used quite frequently in the business world to imply a two-sided, mutually contingent and rewarding process involving transactions or simply exchange.\n\nSocial exchange theory goes back to Thibaut and Kelley (1959), Kelley and Thibaut (1978), Homans (1961) and Rusbult (1983). Sociologist George Homans published a work \"Social Behavior as Exchange\". He defined social exchange as the exchange of activity, tangible or intangible, and more or less rewarding or costly, between at least two persons. After Homans founded the theory, other theorists continued to write about it, particularly Peter M. Blau and Richard M. Emerson, who in addition to Homans are generally thought of as the major developers of the exchange perspective within sociology. Homans' work emphasized the individual behavior of actors in interaction with one another. Although there are various modes of exchange, Homans centered his studies on dyadic exchange. John Thibaut and Harold Kelley are recognized for focusing their studies within the theory on the psychological concepts, the dyad and small group. Lévi-Strauss is recognized for contributing to the emergence of this theoretical perspective from his work on anthropology focused on systems of generalized exchange, such as kinship systems and gift exchange.\n\nHomans summarizes the system in three propositions: success, stimulus, and deprivation–satiation proposition.\n\nPeter Blau focused his early writings on social exchange theory more towards the economic and utilitarian perspective, whereas Homans focused on reinforcement principles which presuppose individuals base their next social move on past experiences. Blau's utilitarian focus encouraged the theorist to look forward, as in what they anticipated the reward would be in regards to their next social interaction. Blau felt that if individuals focused too much on the psychological concepts within the theory, they would refrain from learning the developing aspects of social exchange. Blau emphasized technical economic analysis whereas Homans concentrated more on the psychology of instrumental behavior.\n\nRichard Emerson's early work on the theory intertwined with both Homans and Blau's ideas. Homans believed that social exchange theory was based on reinforcement principles. According to Emerson, Exchange is not a theory, but a framework from which other theories can converge and be compared to structural functionalism. Emerson's perspective was similar to Blau's since they both focused on the relationship power had with the exchange process. Emerson says that social exchange theory is an approach in sociology that is described for simplicity as an economic analysis of noneconomic social situations. Exchange theory brings a quasi-economic form of analysis into those situations.\n\nSelf-interest and interdependence are central properties of social exchange. These are the basic forms of interaction when two or more actors have something of value to each other, and they have to decide whether to exchange and in what amounts. Homans uses the concepts of individualism to explain exchange processes. To him, the meaning of individual self-interest is a combination of economic and psychological needs. Fulfilling self-interest is often common within the economic realm of the social exchange theory where competition and greed can be common. In social exchange, self-interest is not a negative thing; rather, when self-interest is recognized, it will act as the guiding force of interpersonal relationships for the advancement of both parties' self-interest\"—Michael Roloff (1981)\nThibaut and Kelley see the mutual interdependence of persons as the central problem for the study of social behavior. They developed a theoretical framework based on the interdependence of actors. They also highlighted social implications of different forms of interdependence such as reciprocal control. According to their interdependence definition, outcomes are based on a combination of parties' efforts and mutual and complementary arrangements.\n\nSocial exchange theory views exchange as a social behavior that may result both in economic and social outcomes. Social exchange theory has been generally analyzed by comparing human interactions with the marketplace. The study of the theory from the microeconomics perspective is attributed to Blau. Under his perspective every individual is trying to maximize his wins. Blau stated that once this concept is understood, it is possible to observe social exchanges everywhere, not only in market relations, but also in other social relations like friendship. Social exchange process brings satisfaction when people receive fair returns for their expenditures. The major difference between social and economic exchange is the nature of the exchange between parties. Neoclassic economic theory views the actor as dealing not with another actor but with a market and environmental parameters, such as market price. Unlike economic exchange, the elements of social exchange are quite varied and cannot be reduced to a single quantitative exchange rate. According to Stafford, social exchanges involve a connection with another person; involve trust and not legal obligations; are more flexible; and rarely involve explicit bargaining.\n\nSimple social exchange models assume that rewards and costs drive relationship decisions. Both parties in a social exchange take responsibility for one another and depend on each other. The elements of relational life include:\n\nCosts are the elements of relational life that have negative value to a person, such as the effort put into a relationship and the negatives of a partner. (Costs can be time, money, effort etc.)\n\nRewards are the elements of a relationship that have positive value. (Rewards can be sense of acceptance, support, and companionship etc.)\n\nAs with everything dealing with the social exchange theory, it has as its outcome satisfaction and dependence of relationships. The social-exchange perspective argues that people calculate the overall worth of a particular relationship by subtracting its costs from the rewards it provides.\n\nIf worth is a positive number, it is a positive relationship. On the contrary, a negative number indicates a negative relationship. The worth of a relationship influences its outcome, or whether people will continue with a relationship or terminate it. Positive relationships are expected to endure, whereas negative relationships will probably terminate. In a mutually beneficial exchange, each party supplies the wants of the other party at lower cost to self than the value of the resources the other party provides. In such a model, mutual relationship satisfaction ensures relationship stability.\nHomans based his theory on behaviorism to conclude that people pursue rewards to minimize costs. The \"satisfactory-ness\" of the rewards that a party gains from an exchange relationship is judged relative to some standard, which may vary from party to party.\n\nThe basis of social exchange theory is to explain social change and stability as a process of negotiate exchanges between parties. These changes can occur over a person's life course through the various relationships, opportunities and means of support. An example of this is the convoy model of support, this model uses concentric circles to describe relationships around an individual with the strongest relationships in the closet circle. As a person ages these relationships form a convoy that moves along with the person and exchanges in support and assistance through different circumstances that occur. It also changes through the directionality of support given to and by the individual with the people within their support network. Within this model there are different types of support (Social support) a person can receive, those being intangible, tangible, instrumental, and informational. Intangible support can either be social or emotional and can be love, friendship and appreciation that comes with valuable relationships. Tangible support are physical gifts given to someone such as land, gifts, money, transportation, food, and completing chores. Instrumental support are services given to someone in a relationship. Finally, informational support is the delivering of information that is helpful to an individual. \n\nIvan Nye came up with twelve theoretical propositions that aid in understanding the exchange theory.\n\n\nIn his article published in 1978, Nye originally proposed seven propositions that were common in all types of relationship, A few years later he would expand the propositions to a total of twelve. The first five propositions listed are classified as general propositions and are substance free-meaning, the propositions themselves can stand alone within the theory. Proposition number six has been identified by scholars as a notion that there is a general assumption of a need for social approval as a reward and can therefor act as a drive force behind actions. Proposition seven will only work if the individual has the freedom to be excluded from outside factors while in a social exchange relationship. The twelfth and final proposition is directed towards the way our society has a heightened value placed on monetary funds. \n\nEven though Homans took an individualistic approach, a major goal of his work was to explicate the micro-foundations of social structures and social exchange. By studying such forms of behavior he hoped to illuminate the informal sub-institutional bases of more complex social behavior, typically more formal and often institutionalized. According to Homans, social structures emerge from elementary forms of behavior. His vision of the underpinnings of social structure and institutional forms is linked to the actions of individuals, for example to their responses to rewarding and punishment circumstances.\n\nHomans developed five key propositions that assist in structuring individuals' behaviors based on rewards and costs. This set of theoretical ideas represents the core of Homans's version of social exchange theory.\n\nSocial exchange theory is not one theory but a frame of reference within which many theories can speak to another, whether in argument or mutual support. All these theories are built upon several assumptions about human nature and the nature of relationships. Thibaut and Kelley have based their theory on two conceptualizations: one that focuses on the nature of individuals and one that describes the relationships between two people. Thus, the assumptions they make also fall into these categories.\nThe assumptions that social exchange theory makes about human nature include the following:\n\n\nThe assumptions social exchange theory makes about the nature of relationships include the following:\n\n\nThe prisoner's dilemma is a widely used example in game theory that attempts to illustrate why or how two individuals may not cooperate with each other, even if it is in their best interest to do so. It demonstrates that while cooperation would give the best outcome, people might nevertheless act selfishly.\nAll relationships involve exchanges although the balance of this exchange is not always equal. We cannot achieve our goals alone so as humans sometimes we have to become actors. In the world today we see actors as unemotional people but that is not the case once we reach our goals in the end.\n\nSocial exchange includes \"both a notion of a relationship, and some notion of a shared obligation in which both parties perceive responsibilities to each other\". John Thibaut and Harold Kelley proposed two comparison standards to differentiate between relationship satisfaction and relationship stability. This evaluation rests on two types of comparisons: Comparison Level and Comparison Level for Alternative. According to Thibaut and Kelley, the Comparison Level (CL) is a standard representing what people feel they should receive in the way of rewards and costs from a particular relationship. An individual's comparison level can be considered the standard by which an outcome seems to satisfy the individual. The Comparison Level for Alternative (CLalt) refers to \"the lowest level of relational rewards a person is willing to accept given available rewards from alternative relationships or being alone\". In other words, when using this evaluation tool, an individual will consider other alternative payoffs or rewards outside of the current relationship or exchange. CLalt provides a measure of stability rather than satisfaction. If people see no alternative and fear being alone more than being in the relationship, social exchange theory predicts they will stay.\n\nAccording to Kelley and Thibaut, people engage in Behavioral Sequence, or a series of actions designed to achieve their goal. This is congruent with their assumption that human beings are rational. When people engage in these behavioral sequences, they are dependent to some extent on their relational partner. In order for behavioral sequences to lead to social exchange, two conditions must be achieved: \"It must be oriented towards ends that can only be achieved through interaction with other persons, and it must seek to adapt means to further the achievement of these ends\". The concept of reciprocity also derives from this pattern. The reciprocity principle refers to the mutual reinforcement by two parties of each other's actions. The process begins when at least one participant makes a \"move\", and if the other reciprocates, new rounds of exchange initiate. Once the process is in motion, each consequence can create a self-reinforcing cycle. Even though the norm of reciprocity may be a universally accepted principle, the degree to which people and cultures apply this concept varies.\n\nSeveral definitions of power have been offered by exchange theorists. For instance, some theorists view power as distinct from exchanges, some view it as a kind of exchange and others believe power is a medium of exchange. However, the most useful definition of power is that proposed by Emerson, who developed a theory of power-dependence relations. According to this theory, the dependence a person has on another brings up the concept of power. Power differentiation affects social structures by causing inequalities between members of different groups, such as an individual having superiority over another. Power within the theory is governed by two variables : the structure of power in exchange networks and strategic use. Experimental data show that the position an actor occupies in a social exchange network determines relative dependence and therefore power.\n\nAccording to Thibaut and Kelley, there are two types of power: fate control and behavior control. Fate control is the ability to affect a partner's outcomes. Behavior control is the power to cause another's behavior to change by changing one's own behavior.\n\nPeople develop patterns of exchange to cope with power differentials and to deal with the costs associated with exercising power. These patterns describe behavioral rules or norms that indicate how people trade resources in an attempt to maximize rewards and minimize costs. Three different matrices have been described by Thibaut and Kelley to illustrate the patterns people develop. These are given matrix, the effective matrix and the dispositional matrix.\n\n\nThere are three forms within these matrices: Reciprocity, Generalized Exchange, and Productive Exchange. In a direct exchange, reciprocation is confined to the two actors. One social actor provides value to another one and the other reciprocates. There are three different types of reciprocity:\n\nA generalized exchange involves indirect reciprocity between three or more individuals. For example, one person gives to another and the recipient responds by giving to another person other than the first person. Productive exchange means that both actors have to contribute for either one of them to benefit. Both people incur benefits and costs simultaneously.\n\nAnother common form of exchange is negotiated exchange which focuses on the negotiation of rules in order for both parties to reach a beneficial agreement. Reciprocal exchanges and negotiated exchanges are often analyzed and compared to discover their essential differences. One major difference between the two exchanges is the level of risks associated with the exchange and the uncertainty these risks create (ref). Negotiated exchange can consist of binding and non-binding negotiations. When comparing the levels of risk within these exchanges, reciprocal exchange has the highest level of risk which in result produces the most uncertainty. An example of a risk that could occur during the reciprocal exchange is the factor that the second party could end up not returning the favor and completing the reciprocal exchange. Binding negotiated exchanges involve the least amount of risks which will result the individuals feeling low levels of uncertainty. Whereas non-binding negotiated exchanges and their level of risks and uncertainty fall in between the amount of risks associated with reciprocal and binding negotiated exchanges. Since there is not a binding agreement involved, one party involved in the exchange could decide to not cooperate with the agreement.\n\nKatherine Miller outlines several major objections to or problems with the social exchange theory as developed from early seminal works\n\nRussell Cropanzano and Marie S. Mitchell discuss how one of the major issues within the social exchange theory is the lack of information within studies on the various exchange rules. Reciprocity is a major exchange rule discussed but, Cropanzano and Mitchell write that the theory would be better understood if more research programs discussed a variety of exchange rules such as altruism, group gain, status consistency and competition. Meeker points out that within the exchange process, each unit takes into account at least the following elements: reciprocity, rationality, altruism (social responsibility), group gain, status, consistency, and competition (rivalry).\n\nRosenfeld (2005) has noted significant limitations to Social Exchange Theory and its application in the selection of mates/partners. Specifically, Rosenfeld looked at the limitations of interracial couples and the application of social exchange theory. His analysis suggest that in modern society, there is less of a gap between interracial partners education level, socioeconomic status, and social class level which in turn, makes the previously understood application of social exchange mute.\n\nThe most extensive application of social exchange has been in the area of interpersonal relationships. However, social exchange theory materializes in many different situations with the same idea of the exchange of resources. Self-Interest can encourage individuals to make decisions that will benefit themselves overall. Homans once summarized the theory by stating:\n\nOther applications that developed the idea of exchange include field of anthropology as evidenced in an article by Harumi Befu, which discusses cultural ideas and norms. Lévi-Strauss is considered as one of the major contributors to the anthropology of exchange. Within this field, self-interest, human sentiment and motivational process are not considered. Lévi–Strauss uses a collectivist approach to explain exchanges. To Lévi-Strauss, a social exchange is defined as a regulated form of behavior in the context of societal rules and norms. This contrasts with psychological studies of exchange in which behaviors are studied ignoring the culture. Social exchanges from the anthropological perspective have been analyzed using the gift-giving phenomena. The concept of reciprocity under this perspective states that individuals can directly reward his benefactor or another person in the social exchange process. Lévi-Strauss developed the theory of cousin marriage based on the pervasiveness of gift-giving in primitive societies. The basis of this theory is the distinction between restricted exchanges, which is only capable of connecting pairs of social groups, and generalize exchange, which integrates indefinite numbers of groups.\n\nThroughout the theory, one can also end up losing relationships that were already established because the feeling of no longer being beneficial. One feels as if there is not longer a need for a relationship or communication due to lack of rewards. Once this happens, the process of looking for new partners and resources occurs. This allows a continuation of networking. One may go through this process quite frequently. A study titled, Factors Related to Initiating Interpersonal Contacts on Internet Dating Sites: A View From the social exchange theory applied this theory to new media (online dating). The study discovers the different factors involved when an individual decides to establish an online relationship. Overall the study followed the social exchange theory's idea, \"people are attracted to those who grant them rewards\".\n\nAnother example is Berg's study about development of friendship between roommates. The research found how social exchange processes changed during the year by measuring self disclosure. According to the study, the amount one person rewards another and the comparison levels for alternatives become the most important factors in determining liking and satisfaction. Auld, C. and Alan C. conducted a study to discover what processes occur and what is experienced during social leisure relationships. They use the concept of reciprocity to understand their findings. The study concluded that meeting new people is often given as a major reason for participation in leisure activities, and meeting new people may be conceptualized as an exercise of reciprocity. In this case, reciprocity is perceived as a starting mechanism for new social relationships because people are willing to be helped by others, expecting that the help will eventually be returned. A study conducted by Paul, G., called Exchange and access in field work tries to understand the relationships between the researchers and subjects. This study concludes that Bargaining helps to satisfy the more specific needs of the parties because greater risks are taken to obtain more information. This study also introduces the concept of trust (social sciences) to determine the duration of relationships.\n\nPatterns of interracial marriage have been explained using social exchange theory. Kalmijn suggests that ethnic status is offset against educational or financial resources. This process has been used to explain why there are more marriages between black men and white women than between white men and black women. This asymmetry in marriage patterns has been used to support the idea of a racial hierarchy. Lewis, however, explains that the same patterns of marriage can be accounted for in terms of simple facial attractiveness patterns of the different gender by race groupings. Recent changes have seen an increase in black females marrying white men and a decrease in raw prevalence of interracial marriages when it comes to black females. There has also been a shift in the concentration of interracial marriage from mostly being between those with low education levels to those with higher levels of education. \n\nSocial exchange theory has served as a theoretical foundation to explain different situations in business practices. It has contributed to the study of organization-stakeholder relationships and relationship marketing. The investment model proposed by Caryl Rusbult is a useful version of social exchange theory. According to this model, investments serve to stabilize relationships. The greater the nontransferable investments a person has in a given relationship, the more stable the relationship is likely to be. The same investment concept is applied in relationship marketing. Databases are the major instrument to build differentiated relationships between organizations and customers. Through the information process, companies identify the customer's own individual needs. From this perspective, a client becomes an investment. If a customer decides to choose another competitor, the investment will be lost. When people find they have invested too much to quit a relationship or enterprise, they pour additional resources into the relationship to salvage their initial investment. Exchange has been a central research thrust in business-to-business relational exchange. According to the study conducted by Lambe, C. Jay, C. Michael Wittmann, and Robert E. Spekman firms evaluate economic and social outcomes from each transaction and compare them to what they feel they deserve. Firms also look for additional benefits provided by other potential exchange partners. The initial transaction between companies is crucial to determine if their relationship will expand, remain the same or will dissolve.\n\nA study conducted by A. Saks serves as an example to explain engagement of employees in organizations. This study uses one of the tenets of social exchange theory to explain that obligations are generated through a series of interactions between parties who are in a state of reciprocal interdependence. The research identified that when individuals receive economic and socioemotional resources from their organization, they feel obliged to respond in kind and repay the organization. This is a description of engagement as a two-way relationship between the employer and employee. One way for individuals to repay their organization is through their level of engagement. The more engaged the employee are to their work, the greater amounts of cognitive, emotional, and physical resources they will devote to perform their job duties. When the organization fails to provide economic or emotional resources, the employees are more likely to withdraw and disengage themselves from their roles.\n\nSocial exchange theory is a theoretical explanation for organizational citizenship behavior.This study examines a model of clear leadership and relational building between head and teachers as antecedents, and organizational citizenship behavior as a consequence of teacher–school exchange. Citizenship behavior can also be shown with employees and their employers.This is shown through organizational identification which plays an important role in organizational citizenship behavior. An employees identification with their employer plays a significant role in supporting and promoting organized citizenship behavior, serving as a mediating mechanism with citizenship behaviors, perceived organizational justice, and organizational support based on both the social exchange and social identity theory. \n\nUnderstanding interpersonal disclosure in online social networking is an ideal application of social networking theory. Researchers have leveraged SET to explain self-disclosure in a cross-cultural context of French and British working professionals. They discover that reciprocation is the primary benefit of self-disclosure, whereas risk is the foundational cost of self-disclosure. They find that positive social influence to use an online community increases online community self-disclosure; reciprocity increases self-disclosure; online community trust increases self-disclosure; and privacy risk beliefs decrease self-disclosure. Meanwhile, a tendency toward collectivism increases self-disclosure. Similar research also leveraged SET to examine privacy concerns versus desire for interpersonal awareness in driving the use of self-disclosure technologies in the context of instant messaging. This study was also a cross-cultural study, but instead compared US and Chinese participants.\n\nThe actors in social exchange are normally viewed as unemotional beings who have information, cognitively process it, and make decisions concerning the pattern and nature of exchange with others. Affect theory of social exchange complements social exchange theory by incorporating emotion as part of the exchange process. Formalized by Lawler (2001), the affect theory examines the structural conditions of exchange that produce emotions and feelings and then identifies how individuals attribute these emotions to different social units (exchange partners, groups, or networks). These attributions of emotion, in turn, dictate how strongly individuals feel attached to their partners or groups, which drives collectively oriented behavior and commitment to the relationship.\n\nMost social exchange models have three basic assumptions in common: behavior in a social sense is based on exchanges, if an individual allows someone to receives a reward the person then feels the need to reciprocate due to social pressure and individuals will try to minimize their cost while gaining the most from the reward. The affect theory of social exchange is based on assumptions that stem from social exchange theory and affect theory:\n\n\nAffect theory of social exchange shows how the conditions of exchanges promote interpersonal and group relationships through emotions and affective processes. The theoretical arguments center on the following five claims:\n\nEmotions produced by exchange are involuntary, internal responses\n\nIndividuals experience emotions (general feelings of pleasantness or unpleasantness) depending on whether their exchange is successful. These emotions are construed as a reward (or punishment) and individuals strive to repeat actions that reproduce positive emotions or avoid negative emotions.\n\nIndividuals attempt to understand what in a social exchange situation produces emotions\n\nIndividuals will use the exchange task to understand the source (partners, groups, or networks) of their emotions. Individuals are more likely to attribute their emotions to their exchange partners or groups when the task can only be completed with one or more partners, when the task requires interdependent (nonseparable) contributions, and when there is a shared sense of responsibility for the success or failure of the exchange.\n\nThe mode of exchange determines the features of the exchange task and influences the attribution of the emotion produced\n\nThe mode of exchange (productive, negotiated, reciprocal, or generalized) provides a description of the exchange task. The task features are defined by the degree of interdependence (separability of tasks) and shared responsibility between partners to complete the task. These features influence the strength of the emotion felt. Productive exchanges are interdependent and this high degree of nonseparability generates the strongest emotions. Reciprocal exchanges are separable which reduces the perceptions of shared responsibility. The exchange produces little emotional response, but individuals instead express emotions in response to the asymmetrical transaction. Generalized exchanges do not occur directly, but interdependence is still high and coordination between partners is difficult. Because there is no direct emotional foundation, emotions produced are low. Negotiated exchanges may produce conflicting emotions due to the mixed-motive nature of negotiations; even when transactions are successful, individuals may feel like they had the ability to do better, creating emotional ambivalence. Overall, productive exchanges produce the strongest attributions of emotions, generalized (indirect) exchange the weakest, with negotiated and reciprocal exchanges in between.\n\nThe attribution of emotions resulting from different exchange modes impact the solidarity felt with partners or groups\n\nThe different types of exchange (productive, reciprocal, and generalized) also impact the solidarity or identification that an individual will feel with their exchange partners or group. The different exchange types help dictate the target of felt emotions and influences an individual’s attachment. Affective attachment occurs when a social unit (partner or group) is the target of positive feelings from exchange; affective detachment (alienation) occurs when a social unit is the target of negative feelings from failure to exchange. Affective attachment increases solidarity. Similar to the attribution of emotion, productive exchange produces the strongest affective attachments, generalized exchange the weakest, and negotiated and reciprocal exchange are in between.\n\nOne condition for how social (partner or group) attributions can increase solidarity is by reducing self-serving attributions of credit or blame for the success or failure of the exchange. When individuals have group attributions for positive emotions stemming from success, this eliminates any self-serving biases and enhances both pride in the self and gratitude to the partner. However, group attributions for negative emotions stemming from failure do not eliminate self-serving biases, resulting in more anger toward the partner or group than shame in the self.\n\nLawler also proposes that the persistence (stability) and ability to control acts by the exchange partner (controllability) provide conditions for affective attachment by attributing credit or blame for the success or failure of the exchange. Following Weiner (1985) affect theory of social exchange extrapolates that the combinations of stability and uncontrollability elicit different emotions. In social exchange, social connections can be sources of stability and controllability. For example, if an exchange partner is perceived as a stable source of positive feelings, and the exchange partner has control in the acts that elicit those positive feelings, this will strengthen affective attachment. Therefore, affect theory of social exchange proposes that stable and controllable sources of positive feelings (i.e. pleasantness, pride, gratitude) will elicit affective attachments while stable and uncontrollable sources of negative feelings (i.e. unpleasantness, shame, anger) will elicit affective detachment.\n\nThrough these emotional processes, networks can develop group properties\n\nRepeated exchanges allow a network to evolve into a group. Affect theory highlights the contributions of emotions in producing group properties. Successful interactions generate positive feelings for the involved individuals, which motivates them to interact with the same partners in the future. As exchanges repeat, the strong relationships become visible to other parties, making salient their role as a group and helping to generate a group identity that continues to bind the partners together in a network. Affect theory predicts that networks of negotiated and reciprocal exchange will tend to promote stronger relational ties within partners; productive or generalized exchange will promote stronger network or group-level ties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5976593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5976593", "title": "The Day of the Dinosaur", "text": "The Day of the Dinosaur\n\nThe Day of the Dinosaur is a science book by L. Sprague de Camp and Catherine Crook de Camp, illustrated with plates. It was first published in hardcover by Doubleday in 1968, and in paperback by Curtis Books in 1970 or 1971. A second hardcover edition was issued by Bonanza Books in 1985. The first chapter was reprinted as \"One Day in the Cretaceous\" in the de Camps's collection \"Footprints on Sand\" (, 1981).\n\nAs stated on the dust cover of the Doubleday edition, the work is a survey of \"the exciting story of the lost world of the great reptiles and of the fossil hunters who discovered them millions of years later.\" It argues, among other things, that the theory of evolution took hold after Darwin because of interest spurred by recently popularized dinosaur remains, corresponding to legends of dragons.\n\n\n\"Publishers' Weekly\" called the book \"clear, comprehensive, [and] well-researched,\" noting that it \"begins as a vivid and scientifically sound depiction of the age of the giant dinosaurs [and] develops into an impressive tribute to the science of paleontology. Awesome and sometimes spine-chilling as some of the de Camps' descriptions are ... the human story of the first discovery of fossils and the realization of their implications communicates a drama of its own.\" Summing up, he noted that \"[r]eaders who are for the first time being introduced to the wonders of paleontology will be engrossed.\"\n\nMary L. Blackwell, writing in \"Library Journal\" called it \"an accurate and vivid description of the great creatures who roamed the earth more than 100 million years ago and also a fascinating account of the earth itself that makes the reality of its antiquity comprehensible.\" She felt the authors' \"carefully organized, practical approach\" resulted in \"a book that will appeal not only to students of paleontology but to everyone interested in this remote world.\" She rated it \"[r]ecommended for any public or school library.\"\n\nIn \"Natural History\" Isaac Asimov, noting that \"few people ... can speak more charmingly and enlightenedly about scientific subjects than L. Sprague de Camp,\" felt \"[t]he book reads ... like a pleasant and informal lecture, given at their ease, by a pair of enormously rational and urbane individuals\" with which he found it \"virtually impossible to find fault.\" He singled out the way the de Camps \"make the dinosaurs come alive by picturing them in action\" and the \"most remarkable first chapter ... which ... is an evocation (the best I know) of a typical day in the Mesozoic.\" He felt that \"[t]he book deals, satisfactorily, with the paleontologists and their discoveries, too, especially with the Cope-Marsh feud [and] with the effects on contemporary man of the great discoveries of paleontology; the impetus given to the search for giant living creatures--and to romancing about them--and the ferocious object lesson given on the subject of mass extinctions.\" He also notes that the de Camps point out \"[w]e are in the midst of [another] great dying now, ... brought on by man himself.\"\n\n\"The Booklist\" characterized the book as \"[a]n informative, comprehensible, often lively survey of the Age of Reptiles and the careers of some of the scientists who found and studied dinosaur fossils.\" \"Science Books\" rated it \"[a] very comprehensive book about Mesozoic reptiles, [with] [t]the text ... quite free of inaccuracies and... accompanied by many good illustrations,\" and \"[t]he writing style [as] fluctuat[ing] between ... humorous whimsy and scientific exposition, which may limit its popularity.\" It called \"[t]he section [on] the history of the early fossil hunters and development of the great natural history museums ... a real contribution, since this information is collected from many disparate sources.\"\n\nPhilip and Phylis Morrison, writing for \"Scientific American\", found it \"excellent and fresh, ... lively and intelligent,\" \"a savory mixture of biology and history, ... cover[ing] a wide range of lore and logic, from genetics and the problem of extinction to the scaling of beasts.\" \"Skeptical and yet imaginative,\" they wrote, \"the text lives up to the De Camp reputation.\" They found the book's \"final imaginary safari in the Jurassic ... logically planned: for the big flesh-eaters one had best carry a real elephant gun, the Continental .600 or perhaps the Holland & Holland double express .500.\"\n\nBruce Fleury, in a retrospective more than twenty years after the book's initial publication, noted that it \"precede[d] the 'dinosaur renaissance' but remain[ed a] valuable and readable introduction to the subject\" and \"[l]ike De Camp's many other popular works on scientific topics, ... well written and ... highly recommended.\"\n"}
{"id": "10445115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10445115", "title": "The Quest for Power", "text": "The Quest for Power\n\nThe Quest for Power is book on the history of engineering written by Hugh Pembroke Vowles and Margaret Winifred Vowles. It was published in 1931 by Chapman and Hall of London, England.\n\nThe book contains over 150 illustrations and has 370 pages. It begins with a picture of Michael Faraday. The book is divided into three parts. The first is \"The apprenticeship of toil\", which deals with stone tools, early use of metal, control of water, early structural achievements, transport and measurement. The second is \"The age of Power\". This deals with steam power, internal combustion engines and electrical power. Finally, the third part is entitled \"The materials of power\". This looks at coal, oil, alcohol, metals and other products. The last section deals with the future.\n\n\"The Quest for Power\" is dedicated to Hubert Cecil Booth, inventor of the vacuum cleaner. The dedication reads: \"In friendship's name to Hubert Cecil Booth, F.C.G.I., M. Inst. C.E. who by the invention and subsequent development of the vacuum cleaner has created a new industry, lightened the burden of human toil, and increased the health and happiness of innumberable homes\".\n\nThe flier advertising the book contained the following quotation:\n\n\"Eighty British, American and European journals - representative of all that is best in the periodical literature of Science, Engineering, Arts and Industry, besides literary \"weeklies\" and the daily press - have devoted over five hundred single column inches of their space to reviews of \"The Quest for Power\". A few typical comments are quoted overleaf\"\n\n\n\"A miracle of consisement and comprehensiveness combined\" \"Morning Post\" (E.B.Osborn) 4 September 1931\n\n\"The book deserves to become a standard work for the general educated reader, especially for arts mentaking a degree in history, for students in technical colleges and schools\". \"Manchester Guardian\", 7 April 1932.\n\n\"This clear, careful, comprehensive work\". \"News Chronicle\" (W.R. Gordon), 2 September 1931.\n\n\"One of the most exciting stories in the world... splendidly illustrated\". \"Daily Herald\", (Roger Pippett), 17 December 1931.\n\n\"Useful and trustworthy... the authors show a wide knowledge of the subject\". \"Spectator\", 26 September 1931.\n\n\"Gives the layman admirable lucid accounts of the major machines and processes which have given modern man such colossal power\". \"New Statesman and Nation\". 20 February 1932.\n"}
{"id": "13203462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13203462", "title": "USS Whippoorwill (AM-35)", "text": "USS Whippoorwill (AM-35)\n\nUSS \"Whippoorwill\" (AM-35) was a \"Lapwing\"-class minesweeper acquired by the United States Navy for the dangerous task of removing mines from minefields laid in the water to prevent ships from passing.\n\nThe first \"Whippoorwill\" to be so named by the Navy, \"Minesweeper No. 35\" was laid down on 12 December 1917 at Mobile, Alabama, by the Alabama Drydock and Shipbuilding Company; launched on 4 July 1918; sponsored by Miss M. I. Evans; and commissioned on 1 April 1919, Lt. Birney O. Halliwill in command.\n\nAfter fitting out, \"Whippoorwill\" departed Boston, Massachusetts, on 3 July 1919, bound for Scotland. Operating subsequently from the port of Kirkwall, the minesweeper participated in the clearing of the North Sea Mine Barrage as part of Division 3, Minesweeping Squadron, Atlantic Fleet. Hair-trigger mines and frequent foul weather made sweeping the barrage a difficult and dangerous mission; but, by late in the autumn of 1919, the task was completed by a miscellaneous group of new minesweepers, chartered naval trawlers, and submarine chasers.\n\nReturning to the United States in November 1919, \"Whipporwill\" was later assigned to the U.S. Pacific Fleet. Having been classified as AM-35 on 17 July 1920, the minesweeper arrived at Pearl Harbor, her new home port, on 1 March 1921. She would operate out of that base for the next 20 years, with brief periods spent as station ship at Pago Pago, Samoa, between 1931 and 1934.\n\"Whippoorwill's\" prime duty was service to the Fleet. Besides filling the role for which she was designed—sweeping and laying mines—upon occasion she towed targets and plane-guarded.\n\nNoteworthy highlights of her Pearl Harbor-based deployment came in the early 1920s, when she participated in surveys of various and sundry Pacific islands. In July 1923, for example, \"Whippoorwill\"—together with her sister-ship \"Tanager\" (AM-5)—accomplished the first survey of Johnston Island in modern times. During that cruise, she carried members of the Tanager Expedition, a joint expedition sponsored by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Bishop Museum of Hawaii. She also carried a Douglas DT-2 floatplane on her fantail, hoisting it into the water so that it could take off for aerial survey and mapping flights over Johnston. A little over a year later, in September 1925, the plane's pilot, Lt. Comdr. John Rodgers, would win fame as a member of the crew of the PN-9 flying boat.\n\"Whippoorwill\" made other cruises, carrying members of ornithological surveys to islands such as Kingman Reef, Palmyra, Christmas Island, Jarvis Island, Howland Island, and Baker Island. The islands would later assume importance as transpacific air commerce spread its wings toward the Far East and South Pacific Ocean.\n\nUltimately, however, \"Whippoorwill's\" Hawaiian idyll ended. Refitted and modernized, the minesweeper departed Pearl Harbor on 5 May 1941, bound for the Asiatic Fleet, as war clouds gathered over the Pacific and Far East. En route, the minecraft plane-guarded at prearranged stations, serving as a direction-finding station for patrol planes winging their way to the Philippines to reinforce the Asiatic Fleet's air wing—Patrol Wing 10.\nAfter touching briefly at Guam, in the Marianas, on 23 May, \"Whippoorwill\" reached \"Manila\" on the 30th. There, she became part of Mine Division 9, Mine Squadron 3, Asiatic Fleet. In the ensuing months, \"Whippoorwill\" performed a variety of service tasks. She towed targets for the cruisers and destroyers of the Fleet to fire at during battle practices and gunnery shoots, assisted in unmooring and mooring the Fleet's submarine and destroyer tenders from buoys, and conducted similar activities.\n\nThat spring, \"Whippoorwill\" operated with \"Canopus\" (AS-9) during maneuvers in the southern Philippines, touching at Zamboanga and steaming in the Sulu Sea, before returning to Cavite and anchoring in Canacao Bay. Soon thereafter, she commenced operations with the Inshore Patrol which carried out a busy slate of operations as the Philippines feverishly prepared for the impending war with Japan. \"Whippoorwill\" operated on patrol duties and laid mines—laying the field near Caballo Island, near Corregidor, at the entrance to Manila Bay. She and \"Tanager\" also laid the mine field at Subic Bay while operating out of the section base at Olongapo.\nAfter an overhaul at Cavite and at the Verdadero Dockyard across Canacao Bay from Cavite, \"Whippoorwill\" took up patrol duties in the late autumn, frequently alternating with the gunboats \"Asheville\" (PG-21) and \"Tulsa\" (PG-22). That duty was not without its share of interesting moments. On 22 November, while on patrol station \"Cast,\" she fired four shots across the bow of the sailing vessel \"Remedio VIII\" before the vessel hove to. She later prevented the Army tug \"Harrison\" from entering the area and warned off other vessels on the 26th and 28th.\n\nRelieved by \"Tulsa\" on station on 30 November, \"Whippoorwill\" returned to Canacao Bay before she got underway on 3 December for sweeping operations out of Cavite. Five days later, on 8 December 1941 (7 December east of the International Date Line), the Japanese unleashed their onslaught against American, British, and Dutch possessions in the Far East and in the Pacific.\nAt 0415 on the 8th, \"Whippoorwill\" received the news of the attack on Pearl Harbor. Lt. Comdr. Charles A. Ferriter, the ship's commanding officer, soon called his crew to quarters and announced the news. Now, after months of escalating tension and feverish preparations for war, the blow had fallen. Within hours, \"Whippoorwill\" was underway, commencing her first wartime sweeping operations in Manila Bay.\n\nOn the following day, 9 December, Japanese bombers caught General Douglas MacArthur's Far Eastern Air Force on the ground at its principal fields of Nichols and Clark Fields, destroying it as a viable retaliatory force. Thus, with little in the way of air cover, Cavite—the small, crowded base of operations for the Asiatic Fleet—lay naked to an attack from the sky.\nThe Japanese did not wait long to exploit their advantage—at 1230 on 10 December, the air raid alert was broadcast at Cavite. At 1250, \"Whippoorwill\" weighed anchor and stood out to maneuver in Manila Bay, away from the confining waters near Cavite itself. Soon the enemy's high-level bombers were droning overhead, above the effective range of the navy yard's 3-inch batteries; every ship in the harbor opened up with their antiaircraft batteries. In the ensuing action, \"Whippoorwill\" claimed assists in splashing two bombers and sending another one crashing on shore nearby. However, the planes that did get through wreaked havoc. Stick after stick of bombs blasted the navy yard—its buildings and docks—explosions reverberated like thunderclaps.\n\n\"Peary\" (DD-226)—alongside Central Wharf for an overhaul—was hit by a bomb that struck the foremast, snapping it off above the searchlight platform and sending shards of metal down onto the bridge and fire-control platform, killing or wounding nearly every man there—including the commander and his executive officer. Meanwhile, bombs blasted and set afire the torpedo warehouse across the wharf; warheads exploded and burned.\nComdr. Ferriter saw \"Peary's\" predicament and moved his ship through the burning navy yard and eased \"Whippoorwill\" near the destroyer's stern and passed a towline. Braving the burning firebrands from the blazing warehouse, the destroyermen made fast the line, and the minesweeper commenced backing. The towline stretched taut—only to part! Twice more Ferriter's command closed the immobile destroyer, both ships endangered by warheads detonating nearby. Finally, on the third try, the line held; and, with debris showering upon the minesweeper and her crippled charge, \"Whippoorwill\" pulled \"Peary\" free.\n\nSoon thereafter, \"Whippoorwill\" moored \"Peary\" to a buoy in Manila Bay and took the destroyer's wounded to the hospital at Sangley Point in her motor launch. Later that evening, the minesweeper unmoored from the destroyer and stood out, anchoring for the night farther out in Manila Bay.\n\nWith Philippine waters vulnerable for surface ships, those ships of the Asiatic Fleet that could do so sailed for points south. \"Whippoorwill\" headed for Borneo on 12 December and arrived at Balikpapan on the 15th. Four days later, the minecraft—in company with \"Tulsa\", \"Asheville\", and \"Lark\" (AM-21)—joined Task Force (TF) 7 and withdrew further south to the Celebes, arriving the next day. Later, \"Whippoorwill\" screened \"Tulsa\" as the two ships proceeded for Java.\nArriving at Surabaya, three days before Christmas of 1941, Comdr. Ferriter went ashore and reported for orders to the Dutch naval commander there. Three days later, the minesweeper commenced local patrols and sweeps out of Surabaya and continued that duty into February 1942, often operating in company with Dutch units, before she received orders to move to Tjilatjap, a port on Java's south coast.\n\nArriving early on 26 February, \"Whippoorwill\" and \"Lark\" put to sea at 1400 the next day to search for survivors of the seaplane tender \"Langley\" (AV-3), reportedly sunk south of Java. Three hours out of Tjilatjap, the minesweeper's lookouts sighted a strange vessel and altered course to close and identify her. The mysterious ship turned out to be \"Tulsa\", also searching for \"Langley\" survivors.\nThe trio of ships continued their search, the minesweepers steaming independently of the gunboat. At 2229, \"Whippoorwill\" and \"Lark\" arrived in the area in which \"Langley\" had been reported lost, passed a large oil slick, and smelled a strong odor of gasoline and oil—mute testimony to the tragedy that had gone before.\n\nOn the following day, the last day of February, the minesweepers abandoned their search and were about to put about to return to Tjilatjap. At 0507, however, lookouts noted a pulsating fire on the horizon; and the minesweepers closed cautiously. The burning vessel turned out to be the British merchantman \"City of Manchester\"—of the Ellerman Line—that had been torpedoed and gunned by the Japanese submarine I-153. \"Whippoorwill\" lowered a boat at 0550 and rescued the British sailors from their rafts and life boats. Ten injured men were transferred to \"Tulsa\", which had providentially shown up on the scene of the rescue—the gunboat having a well-equipped sick bay that the minesweepers lacked.\nFollowing that rescue mission, \"Whippoorwill\" returned to Tjilatjap, arriving on 1 March, only to stand out later that day as Java, too, was becoming more untenable with each passing hour. Retiring in the face of a ruthless enemy drawing tight the noose around Java, \"Whippoorwill\" crept southward towards Australia. As she proceeded on her anxious voyage, other retiring Asiatic Fleet ships met their doom at the hands of the marauding Japanese -- \"Asheville\", \"Pecos\" (AO-6), and the destroyers Edsall (DD-219) and \"Pillsbury\" (DD-227).\n\n\"Whippoorwill\" dropped anchor at Fremantle on 9 March and operated out of Fremantle into May before she shifted to Albany. The minesweeper conducted local patrols and guardship operations in the shipping channels and harbors there from mid-May to late August when she returned to Fremantle. For the remainder of 1942, \"Whippoorwill\" operated alternatively at Exmouth Bay, Albany, or Fremantle, patrolling locally and towing targets. On occasion, she acted as reference vessel for submarines of the Southwest Pacific forces on their training cruises. The beginning of 1943 found \"Whippoorwill\" engaged in local patrol operations out of Exmouth Gulf, and she continued that duty until February, when she made another brief visit to Fremantle. On 18 and 19 February 1943, she engaged in night exercises with American submarines on maneuvers. Six days later, while underway off the coast, she encountered a cyclone which wrenched two 300-pound depth charges from their tracks.\n\nAfter returning to Exmouth Gulf, she remained there through March 1943 before sailing for Fremantle and a six-day drydocking period. Upon completion of this brief refit, she returned to Exmouth Gulf on 24 April and conducted minesweeping operations in the area. On 15 May, while en route to Fremantle, she picked up an echo with her sonar gear and came to general quarters. She dropped depth charges but lost the contact. Arriving at Fremantle two days later, 17 May, she commenced a series of antisubmarine patrols which lasted into November.\n\nOn 1 December, she began an extensive refit. During the yard work, she was reclassified an ocean-going tug and redesignated AT-169 on 1 March 1944. The long overhaul was completed on 5 March, and the ship proceeded to Brisbane.\nComing under the operational control of Commander, Service Force, 7th Fleet, \"Whippoorwill\" arrived at Brisbane on 20 March. For the next 10 days, 21 to 31 March 1944, she underwent final conversion to an ocean-going tug. This involved the removal of her minesweeping gear and the addition of a heavy-duty towing engine which had once been fitted on board \"Dobbin\" (AD-3).\n\nOn 8 April, the newly refitted \"Whippoorwill\" with \"LST-385\" under tow, got underway for New Guinea, and arrived at Milne Bay with her charge on 15 April. The tug then served Hollandia and at Mios Woendi; also receiving orders to Seeadler Harbor, in the Admiralty Islands, to serve on \"battle-damage standby\" duty—prepared to take any battle-damaged ships under tow and out of the front lines.\n\n\"Whippoorwill\" was reclassified an ocean-going tug, old, on 15 May 1944 and designated ATO-169. She then continued operations off New Guinea and in the backwater areas of the war in the Pacific until receiving orders to head north for Leyte in February 1945. Later operating at Hollandia and Ulithi, \"Whippoorwill\" resumed operations in the Philippine Islands on 15 June 1945 and served as a harbor tug in the Manila Bay area through the end of the war.\nTouching at Leyte Gulf, Manila Bay, Zamboanga, and Samar, \"Whippoorwill\" finally rounded out her tour in the Philippine Islands on 20 December, when she departed Samar, bound for the Marshall Islands. Arriving at Eniwetok in company with \"Vireo\" (ATO-144) and \"Rail\" (ATO-139), she departed that island on 4 January 1946, bound for Pearl Harbor, arriving at the Pacific base that had once long served as her home port on the 15th. After a 10-day stay, \"Whippoorwill\" in company with \"Rail\", got underway again on 25 January, and headed for San Francisco, California.\n\nArriving there on 5 February 1946, \"Whippoorwill\" soon began preparation for inactivation and, on 17 April 1946, the stalwart ship was decommissioned at San Francisco, California. Struck from the Navy list on 10 June 1946, she was turned over to the Maritime Commission for disposal on 6 November 1946.\n\n\"Whippoorwill\" was awarded one battle star for her World War II service.\n\n\n"}
