{"id": "11690182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11690182", "title": "\"I Am\": Eucharistic Meditations on the Gospel", "text": "\"I Am\": Eucharistic Meditations on the Gospel\n\n\"I Am\": Eucharistic Meditations on the Gospel is a book of Roman Catholic meditations written in 1912 by the Venerable Concepcion Cabrera de Armida (often simply called \"Conchita\"), a Mexican mystic who is in the process of beatification.\n\nThe writings that constitute the book were the results of meditations in the presence of the Holy Eucharist. They aim to clarify the words with which Jesus defines Who He is in a variety of statements beginning with the words: \"I am\". The book thus aims to lead the reader to a better understanding of the mystery of Jesus Christ.\n\nThese 31 meditations were originally published in 2001. They were inspired by a wide range of Gospel passages in which Jesus explains who He is in a variety of statements beginning with the words \"I Am\". \n\n"}
{"id": "31641770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31641770", "title": "AI box", "text": "AI box\n\nAn AI box is a hypothetical isolated computer hardware system where a possibly dangerous artificial intelligence, or AI, is kept constrained in a \"virtual prison\" and not allowed to manipulate events in the external world. Such a box would be restricted to minimalist communication channels. Unfortunately, even if the box is well-designed, a sufficiently intelligent AI may nevertheless be able to persuade or trick its human keepers into releasing it, or otherwise be able to \"hack\" its way out of the box.\n\nSome hypothetical intelligence technologies, like \"seed AI\", are postulated such as to have the potential to make themselves faster and more intelligent, by modifying their source code. These improvements would make further improvements possible, which would in turn make further improvements possible, and so on, leading to a sudden intelligence explosion. Following such an intelligence explosion, an unrestricted superintelligent AI could, if its goals differed from humanity's, take actions resulting in human extinction. For example, imagining an extremely advanced computer of this sort, given the sole purpose of solving the Riemann hypothesis, an innocuous mathematical conjecture, could decide to try to convert the planet into a giant supercomputer whose sole purpose is to make additional mathematical calculations (see also paperclip maximizer). The purpose of an AI box would be to reduce the risk of the AI taking control of the environment away from its operators, while still allowing the AI to calculate and give its operators solutions to narrow technical problems.\n\nSuch a superintelligent AI with access to the Internet could hack into other computer systems and copy itself like a computer virus. Less obviously, even if the AI only had access to its own computer operating system, it could attempt to send hidden Morse code messages to a human sympathizer by manipulating its cooling fans. Professor Roman Yampolskiy takes inspiration from the field of computer security and proposes that a boxed AI could, like a potential virus, be run inside a \"virtual machine\" that limits access to its own networking and operating system hardware. An additional safeguard, completely unnecessary for potential viruses but possibly useful for a superintelligent AI, would be to place the computer in a Faraday cage; otherwise it might be able to transmit radio signals to local radio receivers by shuffling the electrons in its internal circuits in appropriate patterns. The main disadvantage of implementing physical containment is that it reduces the functionality of the AI.\n\nEven casual conversation with the computer's operators, or with a human guard, could allow such a superintelligent AI to deploy psychological tricks, ranging from befriending to blackmail, to convince a human gatekeeper, truthfully or deceitfully, that it's in the gatekeeper's interest to agree to allow the AI greater access to the outside world. The AI might offer a gatekeeper a recipe for perfect health, immortality, or whatever the gatekeeper is believed to most desire; on the other side of the coin, the AI could threaten that it will do horrific things to the gatekeeper and his family once it inevitably escapes. One strategy to attempt to box the AI would be to allow the AI to respond to narrow multiple-choice questions whose answers would benefit human science or medicine, but otherwise bar all other communication with or observation of the AI. A more lenient \"informational containment\" strategy would restrict the AI to a low-bandwidth text-only interface, which would at least prevent emotive imagery or some kind of hypothetical \"hypnotic pattern\". Note that on a technical level, no system can be completely isolated and still remain useful: even if the operators refrain from allowing the AI to communicate and instead merely run the AI for the purpose of observing its inner dynamics, the AI could strategically alter its dynamics to influence the observers. For example, the AI could choose to creatively malfunction in a way that increases the probability that its operators will become lulled into a false sense of security and choose to reboot and then de-isolate the system.\n\nThe AI-box experiment is an informal experiment devised by Eliezer Yudkowsky to attempt to demonstrate that a suitably advanced artificial intelligence can either convince, or perhaps even trick or coerce, a human being into voluntarily \"releasing\" it, using only text-based communication. This is one of the points in Yudkowsky's work aimed at creating a friendly artificial intelligence that when \"released\" won't destroy the human race advertently or inadvertently.\n\nThe AI box experiment involves simulating a communication between an AI and a human being to see if the AI can be \"released\". As an actual super-intelligent AI has not yet been developed, it is substituted by a human. The other person in the experiment plays the \"Gatekeeper\", the person with the ability to \"release\" the AI. They communicate through a text interface/computer terminal only, and the experiment ends when either the Gatekeeper releases the AI, or the allotted time of two hours ends.\n\nYudkowsky says that, despite being of human rather than superhuman intelligence, he was on two occasions able to convince the Gatekeeper, purely through argumentation, to let him out of the box. Due to the rules of the experiment, he did not reveal the transcript or his successful AI coercion tactics. Yudkowsky later said that he had tried it against three others and lost twice.\n\nBoxing such a hypothetical AI could be supplemented with other methods of shaping the AI's capabilities, such as providing incentives to the AI, stunting the AI's growth, or implementing \"tripwires\" that automatically shut the AI off if a transgression attempt is somehow detected. However, the more intelligent a system grows, the more likely the system would be able to escape even the best-designed capability control methods. In order to solve the overall \"control problem\" for a superintelligent AI and avoid existential risk, boxing would at best be an adjunct to \"motivation selection\" methods that seek to ensure the superintelligent AI's goals are compatible with human survival.\n\nAll physical boxing proposals are naturally dependent on our understanding of the laws of physics; if a superintelligence could infer and somehow exploit additional physical laws that we are currently unaware of, there is no way to conceive of a foolproof plan to contain it. More broadly, unlike with conventional computer security, attempting to box a superintelligent AI would be intrinsically risky as there could be no sure knowledge that the boxing plan will work. Scientific progress on boxing would be fundamentally difficult because there would be no way to test boxing hypotheses against a dangerous superintelligence until such an entity exists, by which point the consequences of a test failure would be catastrophic.\n\nThe 2015 movie \"Ex Machina\" features an AI with a female humanoid body engaged in a social experiment with a male human in a confined building acting as a physical \"AI box\". Despite being watched by the experiment's organizer, the AI manages to escape by manipulating its human partner to help it, leaving him stranded inside.\n\n"}
{"id": "35405529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35405529", "title": "Adam Nash (savior sibling)", "text": "Adam Nash (savior sibling)\n\nAdam Nash (born August 29, 2000) is an American child who was conceived using preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD).\n\nAdam's parents conceived him through in-vitro fertilization and preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) so he could donate cord blood to his sister, Molly, who was born with Fanconi Anemia and be free of the disease himself. Adam was born on August 29, 2000 by Caesarean section. In October 2000, the blood from Adam's umbilical cord was transplanted to his sister.\n\nAdam's conception and birth received both praise and criticism due to the ethical issues surrounding PGD and was also the inspiration of the novel My Sister's Keeper (novel) by Jodi Picoult. Adam has been called \"the world's first savior sibling\" and \"the first designer baby\".\n"}
{"id": "27573639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27573639", "title": "Alief (mental state)", "text": "Alief (mental state)\n\nIn philosophy and psychology, an alief is an automatic or habitual belief-like attitude, particularly one that is in tension with a person's explicit beliefs.\n\nFor example, a person standing on a transparent balcony may \"believe\" that they are safe, but \"alieve\" that they are in danger. A person watching a sad movie may \"believe\" that the characters are completely fictional, but their \"aliefs\" may lead them to cry nonetheless. A person who is hesitant to eat fudge that has been formed into the shape of feces, or who exhibits reluctance in drinking from a sterilized bedpan may \"believe\" that the substances are safe to eat and drink, but may \"alieve\" that they are not.\n\nThe term \"alief\" was introduced by Tamar Gendler, a professor of philosophy and cognitive science at Yale University, in a pair of influential articles published in 2008. Since the publication of these original articles, the notion of alief has been utilized by Gendler and others — including Paul Bloom and Daniel Dennett — to explain a range of psychological phenomena in addition to those listed above, including the pleasure of stories, the persistence of positive illusions, certain religious beliefs, and certain psychiatric disturbances, such as phobias and obsessive–compulsive disorder.\n\n"}
{"id": "22943476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22943476", "title": "American philosophy", "text": "American philosophy\n\nAmerican philosophy is the activity, corpus, and tradition of philosophers affiliated with the United States. The \"Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" notes that while it lacks a \"core of defining features, American Philosophy can nevertheless be seen as both reflecting and shaping collective American identity over the history of the nation.\"\n\nThe political thinker and historian Alexis de Tocqueville gave his own more detailed definition of a \"Philosophical Method Among the Americans\" in the opening paragraph of Book Two of \"Democracy In America\".\n\nI think that in no country in the civilized world is less attention paid to philosophy than in the United States... Nevertheless it is easy to perceive that almost all the inhabitants of the United States conduct their understanding in the same manner, and govern it by the same rules; that is to say, that without ever having taken the trouble to define the rules of a philosophical method, they are in possession of one, common to the whole people. To evade the bondage of system and habit, of family maxims, class opinions, and, in some degree, of national prejudices; to accept tradition only as a means of information, and existing facts only as a lesson used in doing otherwise, and doing better; to seek the reason of things for one's self, and in one's self alone; to tend to results without being bound to means, and to aim at the substance through the form; – such are the principal characteristics of what I shall call the philosophical method of the Americans...[In] most of the operations of the mind, each American appeals to the individual exercise of his own understanding alone.\n\nThe American philosophical tradition began at the time of the European colonization of the New World. The Puritans arrival in New England set the earliest American philosophy into the religious tradition (Puritan Providentialism), and there was also an emphasis on the relationship between the individual and the community. This is evident by the early colonial documents such as the Fundamental Orders of Connecticut (1639) and the Massachusetts Body of Liberties (1641).\n\nThinkers such as John Winthrop emphasized the public life over the private, holding that the former takes precedence over the latter, while other writers, such as Roger Williams (co-founder of Rhode Island) held that religious tolerance was more integral than trying to achieve religious homogeneity in a community.\n\n18th-century American philosophy may be broken into two halves, the first half being marked by the theology of Reformed Puritan Calvinism influenced by the Great Awakening as well as Enlightenment natural philosophy, and the second by the native moral philosophy of the American Enlightenment taught in American colleges. They were used \"in the tumultuous years of the 1750s and 1770s\" to \"forge a new intellectual culture for the United states\", which led to the American incarnation of the European Enlightenment that is associated with the political thought of the Founding Fathers.\n\nThe 18th century saw the introduction of Francis Bacon and the Enlightenment philosophers Descartes, Newton, Locke, Wollaston, and Berkeley to Colonial British America. Two native-born Americans, Samuel Johnson and Jonathan Edwards, were first influenced by these philosophers; they then adapted and extended their Enlightenment ideas to develop their own American theology and philosophy. Both were originally ordained Puritan Congregationalist ministers who embraced much of the new learning of the Enlightenment. Both were Yale educated and Berkeley influenced idealists who became influential college presidents. Both were influential in the development of American political philosophy and the works of the Founding Fathers. But Edwards based his reformed Puritan theology on Calvinist doctrine, while Johnson converted to the Anglican episcopal religion (the Church of England), then based his new American moral philosophy on William Wollaston's Natural Religion. Late in the century, Scottish Innate or Common Sense Realism replaced the native schools of these two rivals in the college philosophy curricula of American colleges; it would remain the dominant philosophy in American academia up to the Civil War.\n\nThe first 100 years or so of college education in the American Colonies were dominated in New England by the Puritan theology of William Ames and \"the sixteenth-century logical methods of Petrus Ramus.\" Then in 1714, a donation of 800 books from England, collected by Colonial Agent Jeremiah Dummer, arrived at Yale. They contained what became known as \"The New Learning\", including \"the works of Locke, Descartes, Newton, Boyle, and Shakespeare\", and other Enlightenment era authors not known to the tutors and graduates of Puritan Yale and Harvard colleges. They were first opened and studied by an eighteen-year-old graduate student from Guilford, Connecticut, the young American Samuel Johnson, who had also just found and read Lord Francis Bacon's \"Advancement of Learning.\" Johnson wrote in his \"Autobiography\", \"All this was like a flood of day to his low state of mind\" and that \"he found himself like one at once emerging out of the glimmer of twilight into the full sunshine of open day.\" He now considered what he had learned at Yale \"nothing but the scholastic cobwebs of a few little English and Dutch systems that would hardly now be taken up in the street.\"\n\nJohnson was appointed tutor at Yale in 1716. He began to teach the Enlightenment curriculum there, and thus began the American Enlightenment. One of his students for a brief time was a fifteen-year-old Jonathan Edwards. \"These two brilliant Yale students of those years, each of whom was to become a noted thinker and college president, exposed the fundamental nature of the problem\" of the \"incongruities between the old learning and the new.\" But each had a quite different view on the issues of predestination versus freewill, original sin versus the pursuit of happiness though practicing virtue, and the education of children.\n\nJonathan Edwards is considered to be \"America's most important and original philosophical theologian.\" Noted for his energetic sermons, such as \"Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God\" (which is said to have begun the First Great Awakening), Edwards emphasized \"the absolute sovereignty of God and the beauty of God's holiness.\" Working to unite Christian Platonism with an empiricist epistemology, with the aid of Newtonian physics, Edwards was deeply influenced by George Berkeley, himself an empiricist, and Edwards derived his importance of the immaterial for the creation of human experience from Bishop Berkeley.\n\nThe non-material mind consists of understanding and will, and it is understanding, interpreted in a Newtonian framework, that leads to Edwards' fundamental metaphysical category of Resistance. Whatever features an object may have, it has these properties because the object resists. Resistance itself is the exertion of God's power, and it can be seen in Newton's laws of motion, where an object is \"unwilling\" to change its current state of motion; an object at rest will remain at rest and an object in motion will remain in motion.\n\nThough Edwards reformed Puritan theology using Enlightenment ideas from natural philosophy, and Locke, Newton, and Berkeley, he remained a Calvinist and hard determinist. Jonathan Edwards also rejected the freedom of the will, saying that \"we can do as we please, but we cannot please as we please.\" According to Edwards, neither good works nor self-originating faith lead to salvation, but rather it is the unconditional grace of God which stands as the sole arbiter of human fortune.\n\nWhile the 17th- and early 18th-century American philosophical tradition was decidedly marked by religious themes and the Reformation reason of Ramus, the 18th century saw more reliance on science and the new learning of the Age of Enlightenment, along with an idealist belief in the perfectibility of human beings through teaching ethics and moral philosophy, laissez-faire economics, and a new focus on political matters.\n\nSamuel Johnson has been called \"The Founder of American Philosophy\" and the \"first important philosopher in colonial America and author of the first philosophy textbook published there\". He was interested not only in philosophy and theology, but in theories of education, and in knowledge classification schemes, which he used to write encyclopedias, develop college curricula, and create library classification systems.\n\nJohnson was a proponent of the view that \"the essence of true religion is morality\", and believed that \"the problem of denominationalism\" could be solved by teaching a non-denominational common moral philosophy acceptable to all religions. So he crafted one. Johnson's moral philosophy was influenced by Descartes and Locke, but more directly by William Wollaston's \"Religion of Nature Delineated\" and the idealist philosopher of George Berkeley, with whom Johnson studied while Berkley was in Rhode Island between 1729 and 1731. Johnson strongly rejected Calvin's doctrine of Predestination and believed that people were autonomous moral agents endowed with freewill and Lockean natural rights. His fusion philosophy of Natural Religion and Idealism, which has been called \"American Practical Idealism\", was developed as a series of college textbooks in seven editions between 1731 and 1754. These works, and his dialogue \"Raphael, or The Genius of the English America, \"written at the time of the Stamp Act crisis, go beyond his Wollaston and Berkeley influences; \"Raphael \"includes sections on economics, psychology, the teaching of children, and political philosophy.\n\nHis moral philosophy is defined in his college textbook \"Elementa Philosophica\" as \"the Art of pursuing our highest Happiness by the practice of virtue\". It was promoted by President Thomas Clap of Yale, Benjamin Franklin and Provost William Smith at The Academy and College of Philadelphia, and taught at King's College (now Columbia University), which Johnson founded in 1754. It was influential in its day: it has been estimated that about half of American college students between 1743 and 1776, and over half of the men who contributed to the \"Declaration of Independence\" or debated it were connected to Johnson's American Practical Idealism moral philosophy. Three members of the Committee of Five who edited the \"Declaration of Independence\" were closely connected to Johnson: his educational partner, promoter, friend, and publisher Benjamin Franklin of Pennsylvania, his King's College student Robert R. Livingston of New York, and his son William Samuel Johnson's legal protegee and Yale treasurer Roger Sherman of Connecticut. Johnson's son William Samuel Johnson was the Chairman of the Committee of Style that wrote the U.S. Constitution: edits to a draft version are in his hand in the Library of Congress.\n\nAbout the time of the Stamp Act, interest rose in civil and political philosophy. Many of the Founding Fathers wrote extensively on political issues, including John Adams, John Dickinson, Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, and James Madison. In continuing with the chief concerns of the Puritans in the 17th century, the Founding Fathers debated the interrelationship between God, the state, and the individual. Resulting from this were the \"United States Declaration of Independence\", passed in 1776, and the \"United States Constitution\", ratified in 1788.\n\nThe Constitution sets forth a federated republican form of government that is marked by a balance of powers accompanied by a checks and balances system between the three branches of government: a judicial branch, an executive branch led by the President, and a legislative branch composed of a bicameral legislature where the House of Representatives is the lower house and the Senate is the upper house.\n\nAlthough the \"Declaration of Independence\" does contain references to the Creator, the God of Nature, Divine Providence, and the Supreme Judge of the World, the Founding Fathers were not exclusively theistic. Some professed personal concepts of deism, as was characteristic of other European Enlightenment thinkers, such as Maximilien Robespierre, François-Marie Arouet (better known by his pen name, Voltaire), and Rousseau. However, an investigation of 106 contributors to the \"Declaration of Independence\" between September 5, 1774 and July 4, 1776 found that only two men (Franklin and Jefferson), both American Practical Idealists in their moral philosophy, might be called quasi-deists or non-denominational Christians; all the others were publicly members of denominational Christian churches. Even Franklin professed the need for a \"public religion\" and would attend various churches from time to time. Jefferson was vestryman at the evangelical Calvinistical Reformed Church of Charlottesville, Virginia, a church he himself founded and named in 1777, suggesting that at this time of life he was rather strongly affiliated with a denomination and that the influence of Whitefield and Edwards reached even into Virginia. But the founders who studied or embraced Johnson, Franklin, and Smith's non-denominational moral philosophy were at least influenced by the deistic tendencies of Wollaston's Natural Religion, as evidenced by \"the Laws of Nature, and Nature's God\" and \"the pursuit of Happiness\" in the \"Declaration\".\n\nAn alternate moral philosophy to the domestic American Practical Idealism, called variously Scottish Innate Sense moral philosophy (by Jefferson), Scottish Commonsense Philosophy, or Scottish Common Sense Realism, was introduced into American Colleges in 1768 by John Witherspoon, a Scottish immigrant and educator who was invited to be President of the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University). He was a Presbyterian minister and a delegate who joined the Continental Congress just days before the \"Declaration\" was debated. His moral philosophy was based on the work of the Scottish philosopher Francis Hutcheson, who also influenced John Adams. When President Witherspoon arrived at the College of New Jersey in 1768, he expanded its natural philosophy offerings, purged the Berkeley adherents from the faculty, including Jonathan Edwards, Jr., and taught his own Hutcheson-influenced form of Scottish innate sense moral philosophy. Some revisionist commentators, including Garry Wills' \"Inventing America: Jefferson's Declaration of Independence\", claimed in the 1970s that this imported Scottish philosophy was the basis for the founding documents of America. However, other historians have questioned this assertion. Ronald Hamowy published a critique of Garry Wills's \"Inventing America\", concluding that \"the moment [Wills's] statements are subjected to scrutiny, they appear a mass of confusions, uneducated guesses, and blatant errors of fact.\" Another investigation of all of the contributors to the \"United States Declaration of Independence\" suggests that only Jonathan Witherspoon and John Adams embraced the imported Scottish morality. While Scottish innate sense realism would in the decades after the Revolution become the dominate moral philosophy in classrooms of American academia for almost 100 years, it was not a strong influence at the time of the \"Declaration\" was crafted. Johnson's American Practical Idealism and Edwards' Reform Puritan Calvinism were far stronger influences on the men of the Continental Congress and on the \"Declaration\".\n\nThomas Paine, the English intellectual, pamphleteer, and revolutionary who wrote \"Common Sense\" and \"Rights of Man\" was an influential promoter of Enlightenment political ideas in America, though he was not a philosopher. \"Common Sense\", which has been described as \"the most incendiary and popular pamphlet of the entire revolutionary era\", provides justification for the American revolution and independence from the British Crown. Though popular in 1776, historian Pauline Maier cautions that, \"Paine's influence was more modest than he claimed and than his more enthusiastic admirers assume.\"\n\nIn summary, \"in the middle eighteenth century,\" it was \"the collegians who studied\" the ideas of the new learning and moral philosophy taught in the Colonial colleges who \"created new documents of American nationhood.\" It was the generation of \"Founding Grandfathers\", men such as President Samuel Johnson, President Jonathan Edwards, President Thomas Clap, Benjamin Franklin, and Provost William Smith, who \"first created the idealistic moral philosophy of 'the pursuit of Happiness', and then taught it in American colleges to the generation of men who would become the Founding Fathers.\"\n\nThe 19th century saw the rise of Romanticism in America. The American incarnation of Romanticism was transcendentalism and it stands as a major American innovation. The 19th century also saw the rise of the school of pragmatism, along with a smaller, Hegelian philosophical movement led by George Holmes Howison that was focused in St. Louis, though the influence of American pragmatism far outstripped that of the small Hegelian movement.\n\nOther reactions to materialism included the \"Objective idealism\" of Josiah Royce, and the \"Personalism,\" sometimes called \"Boston personalism,\" of Borden Parker Bowne.\n\nTranscendentalism in the United States was marked by an emphasis on subjective experience, and can be viewed as a reaction against modernism and intellectualism in general and the mechanistic, reductionistic worldview in particular. Transcendentalism is marked by the holistic belief in an ideal spiritual state that 'transcends' the physical and empirical, and this perfect state can only be attained by one's own intuition and personal reflection, as opposed to either industrial progress and scientific advancement or the principles and prescriptions of traditional, organized religion. The most notable transcendentalist writers include Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry David Thoreau, and Margaret Fuller.\n\nThe transcendentalist writers all desired a deep return to nature, and believed that real, true knowledge is intuitive and personal and arises out of personal immersion and reflection in nature, as opposed to scientific knowledge that is the result of empirical sense experience.\n\nThings such as scientific tools, political institutions, and the conventional rules of morality as dictated by traditional religion need to be transcended. This is found in Henry David Thoreau's \"Walden; or, Life in the Woods\" where transcendence is achieved through immersion in nature and the distancing of oneself from society.\n\nThe release of Charles Darwin's evolutionary theory in his 1859 publication of \"On the Origin of Species\" had a strong impact on American philosophy. John Fiske and Chauncey Wright both wrote about and argued for the re-conceiving of philosophy through an evolutionary lens. They both wanted to understand morality and the mind in Darwinian terms, setting a precedent for evolutionary psychology and evolutionary ethics.\n\nDarwin's biological theory was also integrated into the social and political philosophies of English thinker Herbert Spencer and American philosopher William Graham Sumner. Herbert Spencer, who coined the oft-misattributed term \"survival of the fittest,\" believed that societies were in a struggle for survival, and that groups within society are where they are because of some level of fitness. This struggle is beneficial to human kind, as in the long run the weak will be weeded out and only the strong will survive. This position is often referred to as Social Darwinism, though it is distinct from the eugenics movements with which social darwinism is often associated. The laissez-faire beliefs of Sumner and Spencer do not advocate coercive breeding to achieve a planned outcome.\n\nSumner, much influenced by Spencer, believed along with the industrialist Andrew Carnegie that the social implication of the fact of the struggle for survival is that laissez-faire capitalism is the natural political-economic system and is the one that will lead to the greatest amount of well-being. William Sumner, in addition to his advocacy of free markets, also espoused anti-imperialism (having been credited with coining the term \"ethnocentrism\"), and advocated for the gold standard.\n\nPerhaps the most influential school of thought that is uniquely American is pragmatism. It began in the late nineteenth century in the United States with Charles Sanders Peirce, William James, and John Dewey. Pragmatism begins with the idea that belief is that upon which one is willing to act. It holds that a proposition's meaning is the consequent form of conduct or practice that would be implied by accepting the proposition as true.\n\nPolymath, logician, mathematician, philosopher, and scientist Charles Sanders Peirce (1839–1914) coined the term \"pragmatism\" in the 1870s. He was a member of The Metaphysical Club, which was a conversational club of intellectuals that also included Chauncey Wright, future Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., and another early figure of pragmatism, William James. In addition to making profound contributions to semiotics, logic, and mathematics, Peirce wrote what are considered to be the founding documents of pragmatism, \"\" (1877) and (1878).\n\nIn \"The Fixation of Belief\" Peirce argues for the superiority of the scientific method in settling belief on theoretical questions. In \"How to Make Our Ideas Clear\" Peirce argued for pragmatism as summed up in that which he later called the pragmatic maxim: \"Consider what effects, that might conceivably have practical bearings, we conceive the object of our conception to have. Then, our conception of these effects is the whole of our conception of the object\". Peirce emphasized that a conception is general, such that its meaning is not a set of actual, definite effects themselves. Instead the conception of an object is equated to a conception of that object's effects to a general extent of their conceivable implications for informed practice. Those conceivable practical implications are the conception's meaning.\n\nThe maxim is intended to help fruitfully clarify confusions caused, for example, by distinctions that make formal but not practical differences. Traditionally one analyzes an idea into parts (his example: a definition of truth as a sign's correspondence to its object). To that needful but confined step, the maxim adds a further and practice-oriented step (his example: a definition of truth as sufficient investigation's destined end).\n\nIt is the heart of his pragmatism as a method of experimentational mental reflection arriving at conceptions in terms of conceivable confirmatory and disconfirmatory circumstances—a method hospitable to the formation of explanatory hypotheses, and conducive to the use and improvement of verification. Typical of Peirce is his concern with inference to explanatory hypotheses as outside the usual foundational alternative between deductivist rationalism and inductivist empiricism, though he himself was a mathematician of logic and a founder of statistics.\n\nPeirce's philosophy includes a pervasive three-category system, both fallibilism and anti-skeptical belief that truth is discoverable and immutable, (including semiotic elements and classes of signs, modes of inference, and methods of inquiry along with pragmatism and critical common-sensism), Scholastic realism, , objective idealism, and belief in the reality of continuity of space, time, and law, and in the reality of absolute chance, mechanical necessity, and creative love as principles operative in the cosmos and as modes of its evolution.\n\nWilliam James (1842–1910) was \"an original thinker in and between the disciplines of physiology, psychology and philosophy.\" He is famous as the author of \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\", his monumental tome \"The Principles of Psychology\", and his lecture \"The Will to Believe.\"\n\nJames, along with Peirce, saw pragmatism as embodying familiar attitudes elaborated into a radical new philosophical method of clarifying ideas and thereby resolving dilemmas. In his 1910 \",\" James paraphrased Peirce's pragmatic maxim as follows:\n\nHe then went on to characterize pragmatism as promoting not only a method of clarifying ideas but also as endorsing a particular theory of truth. Peirce rejected this latter move by James, preferring to describe the pragmatic maxim only as a maxim of logic and pragmatism as a methodological stance, explicitly denying that it was a substantive doctrine or theory about anything, truth or otherwise.\n\nJames is also known for his radical empiricism which holds that relations between objects are as real as the objects themselves. James was also a pluralist in that he believed that there may actually be multiple correct accounts of truth. He rejected the correspondence theory of truth and instead held that truth involves a belief, facts about the world, other background beliefs, and future consequences of those beliefs. Later in his life James would also come to adopt neutral monism, the view that the ultimate reality is of one kind, and is neither mental nor physical.\n\nJohn Dewey (1859–1952), while still engaging in the lofty academic philosophical work of James and Peirce before him, also wrote extensively on political and social matters, and his presence in the public sphere was much greater than his pragmatist predecessors. In addition to being one of the founding members of pragmatism, John Dewey was one of the founders of functional psychology and was a leading figure of the progressive movement in U.S. schooling during the first half of the 20th century.\n\nDewey argued against the individualism of classical liberalism, asserting that social institutions are not \"means for obtaining something for individuals. They are means for creating individuals.\" He held that individuals are not things that should be accommodated by social institutions, instead, social institutions are prior to and shape the individuals. These social arrangements are a means of creating individuals and promoting individual freedom.\n\nDewey is well known for his work in the applied philosophy of the philosophy of education. Dewey's philosophy of education is one where children learn by doing. Dewey believed that schooling was unnecessarily long and formal, and that children would be better suited to learn by engaging in real-life activities. For example, in math, students could learn by figuring out proportions in cooking or seeing how long it would take to travel distances with certain modes of transportation.\n\nPragmatism, which began in the 19th century in America, by the beginning of the 20th century began to be accompanied by other philosophical schools of thought, and was eventually eclipsed by them, though only temporarily. The 20th century saw the emergence of process philosophy, itself influenced by the scientific world-view and Einstein's theory of relativity. The middle of the 20th century was witness to the increase in popularity of the philosophy of language and analytic philosophy in America. Existentialism and phenomenology, while very popular in Europe in the 20th century, never achieved the level of popularity in America as they did in continental Europe.\n\nPragmatism continued its influence into the 20th century, and Spanish-born philosopher George Santayana was one of the leading proponents of pragmatism in this period. He held that idealism was an outright contradiction and rejection of common sense. He held that, if something must be certain in order to be knowledge, then it seems no knowledge may be possible, and the result will be skepticism. According to Santayana, knowledge involved a sort of faith, which he termed \"animal faith.\"\n\nIn his book \"Scepticism and Animal Faith\" he asserts that knowledge is not the result of reasoning. Instead, knowledge is what is required in order to act and successfully engage with the world. As a naturalist, Santayana was a harsh critic of epistemological foundationalism. The explanation of events in the natural world is within the realm of science, while the meaning and value of this action should be studied by philosophers. Santayana was accompanied in the intellectual climate of 'common sense' philosophy by the thinkers of the New Realism movement, such as Ralph Barton Perry.\n\nProcess philosophy embraces the Einsteinian world-view, and its main proponents include Alfred North Whitehead and Charles Hartshorne. The core belief of process philosophy is the claim that events and processes are the principal ontological categories. Whitehead asserted in his book \"The Concept of Nature\" that the things in nature, what he referred to as \"concresences\" are a conjunction of events that maintain a permanence of character. Process philosophy is Heraclitan in the sense that a fundamental ontological category is change. Charles Hartshorne was also responsible for developing the process philosophy of Whitehead into process theology.\n\nThe middle of the 20th century was the beginning of the dominance of analytic philosophy in America. Analytic philosophy, prior to its arrival in America, had begun in Europe with the work of Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell, Ludwig Wittgenstein, and the logical positivists. According to logical positivism, the truths of logic and mathematics are tautologies, and those of science are empirically verifiable. Any other claim, including the claims of ethics, aesthetics, theology, metaphysics, and ontology, are meaningless (this theory is called verificationism). With the rise of Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party, many positivists fled Germany to Britain and America, and this helped reinforce the dominance of analytic philosophy in the United States in subsequent years.\n\nW.V.O. Quine, while not a logical positivist, shared their view that philosophy should stand shoulder to shoulder with science in its pursuit of intellectual clarity and understanding of the world. He criticized the logical positivists and the analytic/synthetic distinction of knowledge in his essay \"Two Dogmas of Empiricism\" and advocated for his \"web of belief,\" which is a coherentist theory of justification. In Quine's epistemology, since no experiences occur in isolation, there is actually a holistic approach to knowledge where every belief or experience is intertwined with the whole. Quine is also famous for inventing the term \"gavagai\" as part of his theory of the indeterminacy of translation.\nSaul Kripke, a student of Quine at Harvard, has profoundly influenced analytic philosophy. Kripke was ranked among the top ten most important philosophers of the past 200 years in a poll conducted by Brian Leiter (Leiter Reports: a Philosophy Blog; open access poll) Kripke is best known for four contributions to philosophy: (1) Kripke semantics for modal and related logics, published in several essays beginning while he was still in his teens. (2) His 1970 Princeton lectures Naming and Necessity (published in 1972 and 1980), that significantly restructured the philosophy of language and, as some have put it, \"made metaphysics respectable again\". (3) His interpretation of the philosophy of Wittgenstein. (4) His theory of truth. He has also made important contributions to set theory (see admissible ordinal and Kripke–Platek set theory)\n\nDavid Kellogg Lewis, another student of Quine at Harvard, was ranked as one of the greatest philosophers of the 20th century in a poll conducted by Brian Leiter (open access poll). He is well known for his controversial advocacy of modal realism, the position which holds that there is an infinite number of concrete and causally isolated possible worlds, of which ours is one. These possible worlds arise in the field of modal logic.\n\nThomas Kuhn was an important philosopher and writer who worked extensively in the fields of the history of science and the philosophy of science. He is famous for writing \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\", one of the most cited academic works of all time. The book argues that science proceeds through different \"paradigms\" as scientists find new puzzles to solve. There follows a widespread struggle to find answers to questions, and a shift in world views occurs, which is referred to by Kuhn as a \"paradigm shift\". The work is considered a milestone in the sociology of knowledge.\n\nThe analytic philosophers troubled themselves with the abstract and the conceptual, and American philosophy did not fully return to social and political concerns (that dominated American philosophy at the time of the founding of the United States) until the 1970s.\nThe return to political and social concerns included the popularity of works of Ayn Rand, who promoted ethical egoism (the praxis of the belief system she called Objectivism) in her novels, \"The Fountainhead\" in 1943 and \"Atlas Shrugged\" in 1957. These two novels gave birth to the Objectivist movement and would influence a small group of students called The Collective, one of whom was a young Alan Greenspan, a self-described libertarian who would become Chairman of the Federal Reserve. Objectivism holds that there is an objective external reality that can be known with reason, that human beings should act in accordance with their own rational self-interest, and that the proper form of economic organization is laissez-faire capitalism. Academic philosophers have been highly critical of the quality and intellectual rigor of Rand's work, but she remains a popular, albeit controversial, figure within the American libertarian movement.\n\nIn 1971 John Rawls published his book \"A Theory of Justice\". The book puts forth Rawls' view of \"justice as fairness\", one which is based on a form of social contract theory. Rawls employs the use of a conceptual mechanism called the veil of ignorance to outline his idea of the original position.\n\nIn Rawls' philosophy, the original position is the correlate to the Hobbesian state of nature. While in the original position, persons are said to be behind the veil of ignorance, which makes these persons unaware of their individual characteristics and their place in society, such as their race, religion, wealth, etc. The principles of justice are chosen by rational persons while in this original position. The two principles of justice are the equal liberty principle and the principle which governs the distribution of social and economic inequalities. From this, Rawls argues for a system of distributive justice in accordance with the Difference Principle, which says that all social and economic inequalities must be to the greatest benefit of the least advantaged.\n\nViewing Rawls as promoting excessive government control and rights violations, libertarian Robert Nozick published \"Anarchy, State, and Utopia\" in 1974. The book advocates for a minimal state and defends the liberty of the individual. He argues that the role of government should be limited to \"police protection, national defense, and the administration of courts of law, with all other tasks commonly performed by modern governments – education, social insurance, welfare, and so forth – taken over by religious bodies, charities, and other private institutions operating in a free market.\"\n\nNozick asserts his view of the entitlement theory of justice, which says that if everyone in society has acquired their holdings in accordance with the principles of acquisition, transfer, and rectification, then any pattern of allocation, no matter how unequal the distribution may be, is just. The entitlement theory of justice holds that the \"justice of a distribution is indeed determined by certain historical circumstances (contrary to end-state theories), but it has nothing to do with fitting any pattern guaranteeing that those who worked the hardest or are most deserving have the most shares.\"\n\nAlasdair MacIntyre, while he was born and educated in the United Kingdom, has spent around forty years living and working in the United States. He is responsible for the resurgence of interest in virtue ethics, a moral theory first propounded by the ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle. He is considered the preeminent Thomist political philosopher. He holds that \"modern philosophy and modern life are characterized by the absence of any coherent moral code, and that the vast majority of individuals living in this world lack a meaningful sense of purpose in their lives and also lack any genuine community\". He recommends a return to genuine political communities where individuals can properly acquire their virtues.\n\nOutside academic philosophy, political and social concerns took center stage with the Civil Rights Movement and the writings of Martin Luther King, Jr.\n\nWhile there were earlier writers who would be considered feminist, such as Sarah Grimké, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Anne Hutchinson, the feminist movement of the 1960s and 1970s, also known as second-wave feminism, is notable for its impact in philosophy.\n\nThe popular mind was taken with Betty Friedan's \"The Feminine Mystique\". This was accompanied by other feminist philosophers, such as Alicia Ostriker and Adrienne Rich. These philosophers critiqued basic assumptions and values like objectivity and what they believe to be masculine approaches to ethics, such as rights-based political theories. They maintained there is no such thing as a value-neutral inquiry and they sought to analyze the social dimensions of philosophical issues.\n\nTowards the end of the 20th century there was a resurgence of interest in pragmatism. Largely responsible for this are Hilary Putnam and Richard Rorty. Rorty is famous as the author of \"Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature\" and \"Philosophy and Social Hope\". Hilary Putnam is well known for his quasi-empiricism in mathematics, his challenge of the brain in a vat thought experiment, and his other work in philosophy of mind, philosophy of language, and philosophy of science.\n\nThe debates that occur within the philosophy of mind have taken center stage. American philosophers such as Hilary Putnam, Donald Davidson, Daniel Dennett, Douglas Hofstadter, John Searle, as well as Patricia and Paul Churchland continue the discussion of such issues as the nature of mind and the hard problem of consciousness, a philosophical problem indicated by the Australian philosopher David Chalmers.\n\nIn the early 21st century, embodied cognition has gained strength as a theory of mind-body-world integration. Philosophers such as Shaun Gallagher and Alva Noë, together with British philosophers such as Andy Clark defend this view, seeing it as a natural development of pragmatism, and of the thinking of Kant, Heidegger and Merleau-Ponty among others.\n\nNoted American legal philosophers Ronald Dworkin and Richard Posner work in the fields of political philosophy and jurisprudence. Posner is famous for his economic analysis of law, a theory which uses microeconomics to understand legal rules and institutions. Dworkin is famous for his theory of law as integrity and legal interpretivism, especially as presented in his book \"Law's Empire\".\n\nPhilosopher Cornel West is known for his analysis of American cultural life with regards to race, gender, and class issues, as well as his associations with pragmatism and transcendentalism.\n\nAlvin Plantinga is a Christian analytic philosopher known for his free will defense with respect to the logical problem of evil, the evolutionary argument against naturalism, the position that belief in the existence of God is properly basic, and his modal version of the ontological argument for the existence of God. Michael C. Rea has developed Plantinga's thought by claiming that both naturalism and supernaturalism are research programmes that have to be adopted as a basis for research.\n\n\nLists:\n\nOrganizations:\n\n"}
{"id": "20664482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20664482", "title": "Androcydes (Pythagorean)", "text": "Androcydes (Pythagorean)\n\nAndrocydes (also transliterated as Androkydes) was a Pythagorean whose work \"On Pythagorean Symbols\" survives only in scattered fragments. The dating of his life is uncertain; he lived before the 1st century BC but possibly as early as the 4th. The frequency with which Androcydes is mentioned in other works indicates that he was a major source for the later Pythagorean tradition, and he is also of interest in studying the historical development of the literary and philosophical symbol.\n\nWalter Burkert featured Androcydes in his stemma of Pythagorean \"symbola\", consisting of gnomic utterances or maxims. Androcydes was regarded as one of the most important sources on the \"akousmata\".\n\nAccording to Grant (2002), he has said, \"wine and meat do harm the mind\".\n\nParaphrases of his work in later writers demonstrate his method of interpreting these behavioral strictures. For instance, “Do not step over a yoke” should be understood as meaning “Do not transgress justice.” These interpretations indicate that the prohibitions held arcane significance for those willing to ponder them and learn, that the \"symbola\" are also \"enigmata\" (αἰνίγματα).\n\nThe 1st-century BC grammarian Tryphon refers to Androcydes’ work in a section on literary \"enigmata\", which he defines as darkened or obscured allegories. Tryphon implies that Androcydes made no strong distinction between poetic and philosophical modes of discourse, in that he cited passages from Hesiod in interpreting the Pythagorean symbols.\n\nAndrocydes treated the \"Ephesia grammata\", or ritualized “magic words” used for incantations or amuletic inscriptions, as allegorical language containing theological insights, a “cryptic form of natural theology.” Androcydes interprets the words through perceived lexical and phonic similarities to Greek. His commentary on perhaps the best-known string of such syllables — \"askion kataskion lix tetrax damnameneus aision\" — is paraphrased by Clement of Alexandria:\n\nSome attempts have been made to identify this Androcydes with the Androcydes who was physician to Alexander the Great. Pythagorean dietary discipline regarding wine (bad) and cabbage (good) may be reflected in the physician’s advice to the notoriously wine-drinking conqueror.\n"}
{"id": "1130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1130", "title": "Avicenna", "text": "Avicenna\n\nAvicenna (; also Ibn Sīnā or Abu Ali Sina; ;  – June 1037) was a Persian polymath who is regarded as one of the most significant physicians, astronomers, thinkers and writers of the Islamic Golden Age. He has been described as the father of early modern medicine. Of the 450 works he is known to have written, around 240 have survived, including 150 on philosophy and 40 on medicine.\n\nHis most famous works are \"The Book of Healing\", a philosophical and scientific encyclopedia, and \"The Canon of Medicine\", a medical encyclopedia which became a standard medical text at many medieval universities and remained in use as late as 1650. In 1973, Avicenna's \"Canon Of Medicine\" was reprinted in New York.\n\nBesides philosophy and medicine, Avicenna's corpus includes writings on astronomy, alchemy, geography and geology, psychology, Islamic theology, logic, mathematics, physics and works of poetry.\n\n' is a Latin corruption of the Arabic patronym \"Ibn Sīnā\" (), meaning \"Son of Sina\", a rare Persian masculine given name of uncertain etymology. However, Avicenna was not the son, but the great-great-grandson of a man named Sina. His full name was Abū ʿAlī al-Ḥusayn ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn al-Ḥasan ibn ʿAlī ibn Sīnā ().\n\nIbn Sina created an extensive corpus of works during what is commonly known as the Islamic Golden Age, in which the translations of Greco-Roman, Persian, and Indian texts were studied extensively. Greco-Roman (Mid- and Neo-Platonic, and Aristotelian) texts translated by the Kindi school were commented, redacted and developed substantially by Islamic intellectuals, who also built upon Persian and Indian mathematical systems, astronomy, algebra, trigonometry and medicine. The Samanid dynasty in the eastern part of Persia, Greater Khorasan and Central Asia as well as the Buyid dynasty in the western part of Persia and Iraq provided a thriving atmosphere for scholarly and cultural development. Under the Samanids, Bukhara rivaled Baghdad as a cultural capital of the Islamic world.\n\nThe study of the Quran and the Hadith thrived in such a scholarly atmosphere. Philosophy, Fiqh and theology (kalaam) were further developed, most noticeably by Avicenna and his opponents. Al-Razi and Al-Farabi had provided methodology and knowledge in medicine and philosophy. Avicenna had access to the great libraries of Balkh, Khwarezm, Gorgan, Rey, Isfahan and Hamadan. Various texts (such as the 'Ahd with Bahmanyar) show that he debated philosophical points with the greatest scholars of the time. Aruzi Samarqandi describes how before Avicenna left Khwarezm he had met Al-Biruni (a famous scientist and astronomer), Abu Nasr Iraqi (a renowned mathematician), Abu Sahl Masihi (a respected philosopher) and Abu al-Khayr Khammar (a great physician).\n\nAvicenna was born in Afshana, a village near Bukhara (in present-day Uzbekistan), the capital of the Samanids, a Persian dynasty in Central Asia and Greater Khorasan. His mother, named Sitāra, was from Bukhara; his father, Abdullāh, was a respected Ismaili scholar from Balkh, an important town of the Samanid Empire, in what is today Balkh Province, Afghanistan. His father worked in the government of Samanid in the village Kharmasain, a Sunni regional power. After five years, his younger brother, Mahmoud, was born. Avicenna first began to learn the Quran and literature in such a way that when he was ten years old he had essentially learned all of them.\n\nAccording to his autobiography, Avicenna had memorised the entire Quran by the age of 10. He learned Indian arithmetic from an Indian greengrocer, Mahmoud Massahi and he began to learn more from a wandering scholar who gained a livelihood by curing the sick and teaching the young. He also studied Fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence) under the Sunni Hanafi scholar Ismail al-Zahid. Avicenna was taught some extent of philosophy books such as Introduction (Isagoge)'s Porphyry (philosopher), Euclid's Elements, Ptolemy's Almagest by an unpopular philosopher, Abu Abdullah Nateli, who claimed philosophizing.\n\nAs a teenager, he was greatly troubled by the \"Metaphysics\" of Aristotle, which he could not understand until he read al-Farabi's commentary on the work. For the next year and a half, he studied philosophy, in which he encountered greater obstacles. In such moments of baffled inquiry, he would leave his books, perform the requisite ablutions, then go to the mosque, and continue in prayer till light broke on his difficulties. Deep into the night, he would continue his studies, and even in his dreams problems would pursue him and work out their solution. Forty times, it is said, he read through the \"Metaphysics\" of Aristotle, till the words were imprinted on his memory; but their meaning was hopelessly obscure, until one day they found illumination, from the little commentary by Farabi, which he bought at a bookstall for the small sum of three dirhams. So great was his joy at the discovery, made with the help of a work from which he had expected only mystery, that he hastened to return thanks to God, and bestowed alms upon the poor.\n\nHe turned to medicine at 16, and not only learned medical theory, but also by gratuitous attendance of the sick had, according to his own account, discovered new methods of treatment. The teenager achieved full status as a qualified physician at age 18, and found that \"Medicine is no hard and thorny science, like mathematics and metaphysics, so I soon made great progress; I became an excellent doctor and began to treat patients, using approved remedies.\" The youthful physician's fame spread quickly, and he treated many patients without asking for payment.\n\nA number of theories have been proposed regarding Avicenna's madhab (school of thought within Islamic jurisprudence). Medieval historian Ẓahīr al-dīn al-Bayhaqī (d. 1169) considered Avicenna to be a follower of the Brethren of Purity. On the other hand, Dimitri Gutas along with Aisha Khan and Jules J. Janssens demonstrated that Avicenna was a Sunni Hanafi. However, the 14th century Shia faqih Nurullah Shushtari according to Seyyed Hossein Nasr, maintained that he was most likely a Twelver Shia. Conversely, Sharaf Khorasani, citing a rejection of an invitation of the Sunni Governor Sultan Mahmoud Ghazanavi by Avicenna to his court, believes that Avicenna was an Ismaili. Similar disagreements exist on the background of Avicenna's family, whereas some writers considered them Sunni, some more recent writers contested that they were Shia.\n\nIbn Sina's first appointment was that of physician to the emir, Nuh II, who owed him his recovery from a dangerous illness (997). Ibn Sina's chief reward for this service was access to the royal library of the Samanids, well-known patrons of scholarship and scholars. When the library was destroyed by fire not long after, the enemies of Ibn Sina accused him of burning it, in order for ever to conceal the sources of his knowledge. Meanwhile, he assisted his father in his financial labors, but still found time to write some of his earliest works.\n\nWhen Ibn Sina was 22 years old, he lost his father. The Samanid dynasty came to its end in December 1004. Ibn Sina seems to have declined the offers of Mahmud of Ghazni, and proceeded westwards to Urgench in modern Turkmenistan, where the vizier, regarded as a friend of scholars, gave him a small monthly stipend. The pay was small, however, so Ibn Sina wandered from place to place through the districts of Nishapur and Merv to the borders of Khorasan, seeking an opening for his talents. Qabus, the generous ruler of Tabaristan, himself a poet and a scholar, with whom Ibn Sina had expected to find asylum, was on about that date (1012) starved to death by his troops who had revolted. Ibn Sina himself was at this time stricken by a severe illness. Finally, at Gorgan, near the Caspian Sea, Ibn Sina met with a friend, who bought a dwelling near his own house in which Ibn Sina lectured on logic and astronomy. Several of Ibn Sina's treatises were written for this patron; and the commencement of his \"Canon of Medicine\" also dates from his stay in Hyrcania.\n\nIbn Sina subsequently settled at Rey, in the vicinity of modern Tehran, the home town of Rhazes; where Majd Addaula, a son of the last Buwayhid emir, was nominal ruler under the regency of his mother (Seyyedeh Khatun). About thirty of Ibn Sina's shorter works are said to have been composed in Rey. Constant feuds which raged between the regent and her second son, Shams al-Daula, however, compelled the scholar to quit the place. After a brief sojourn at Qazvin he passed southwards to Hamadãn where Shams al-Daula, another Buwayhid emir, had established himself. At first, Ibn Sina entered into the service of a high-born lady; but the emir, hearing of his arrival, called him in as medical attendant, and sent him back with presents to his dwelling. Ibn Sina was even raised to the office of vizier. The emir decreed that he should be banished from the country. Ibn Sina, however, remained hidden for forty days in sheikh Ahmed Fadhel's house, until a fresh attack of illness induced the emir to restore him to his post. Even during this perturbed time, Ibn Sina persevered with his studies and teaching. Every evening, extracts from his great works, the \"Canon\" and the \"Sanatio\", were dictated and explained to his pupils. On the death of the emir, Ibn Sina ceased to be vizier and hid himself in the house of an apothecary, where, with intense assiduity, he continued the composition of his works.\n\nMeanwhile, he had written to Abu Ya'far, the prefect of the dynamic city of Isfahan, offering his services. The new emir of Hamadan, hearing of this correspondence and discovering where Ibn Sina was hiding, incarcerated him in a fortress. War meanwhile continued between the rulers of Isfahan and Hamadãn; in 1024 the former captured Hamadan and its towns, expelling the Tajik mercenaries. When the storm had passed, Ibn Sina returned with the emir to Hamadan, and carried on his literary labors. Later, however, accompanied by his brother, a favorite pupil, and two slaves, Ibn Sina escaped from the city in the dress of a Sufi ascetic. After a perilous journey, they reached Isfahan, receiving an honorable welcome from the prince.\n\nThe remaining ten or twelve years of Ibn Sīnā's life were spent in the service of the Kakuyid ruler Muhammad ibn Rustam Dushmanziyar (also known as Ala al-Dawla), whom he accompanied as physician and general literary and scientific adviser, even in his numerous campaigns.\n\nDuring these years he began to study literary matters and philology, instigated, it is asserted, by criticisms on his style. A severe colic, which seized him on the march of the army against Hamadan, was checked by remedies so violent that Ibn Sina could scarcely stand. On a similar occasion the disease returned; with difficulty he reached Hamadan, where, finding the disease gaining ground, he refused to keep up the regimen imposed, and resigned himself to his fate.\n\nHis friends advised him to slow down and take life moderately. He refused, however, stating that: \"I prefer a short life with width to a narrow one with length\". On his deathbed remorse seized him; he bestowed his goods on the poor, restored unjust gains, freed his slaves, and read through the Quran every three days until his death. He died in June 1037, in his fifty-eighth year, in the month of Ramadan and was buried in Hamadan, Iran.\n\nIbn Sīnā wrote extensively on early Islamic philosophy, especially the subjects logic, ethics, and metaphysics, including treatises named \"Logic\" and \"Metaphysics\". Most of his works were written in Arabic – then the language of science in the Middle East – and some in Persian. Of linguistic significance even to this day are a few books that he wrote in nearly pure Persian language (particularly the Danishnamah-yi 'Ala', Philosophy for Ala' ad-Dawla'). Ibn Sīnā's commentaries on Aristotle often criticized the philosopher, encouraging a lively debate in the spirit of ijtihad.\n\nAvicenna's Neoplatonic scheme of \"emanations\" became fundamental in the \"Kalam\" (school of theological discourse) in the 12th century.\n\nHis \"Book of Healing\" became available in Europe in partial Latin translation some fifty years after its composition, under the title \"Sufficientia\", and some authors have identified a \"Latin Avicennism\" as flourishing for some time, paralleling the more influential Latin Averroism, but suppressed by the Parisian decrees of 1210 and 1215.\n\nAvicenna's psychology and theory of knowledge influenced William of Auvergne, Bishop of Paris and Albertus Magnus, while his metaphysics influenced the thought of Thomas Aquinas.\n\nEarly Islamic philosophy and Islamic metaphysics, imbued as it is with Islamic theology, distinguishes more clearly than Aristotelianism between essence and existence. Whereas existence is the domain of the contingent and the accidental, essence endures within a being beyond the accidental. The philosophy of Ibn Sīnā, particularly that part relating to metaphysics, owes much to al-Farabi. The search for a definitive Islamic philosophy separate from Occasionalism can be seen in what is left of his work.\n\nFollowing al-Farabi's lead, Avicenna initiated a full-fledged inquiry into the question of being, in which he distinguished between essence (\"Mahiat\") and existence (\"Wujud\"). He argued that the fact of existence can not be inferred from or accounted for by the essence of existing things, and that form and matter by themselves cannot interact and originate the movement of the universe or the progressive actualization of existing things. Existence must, therefore, be due to an agent-cause that necessitates, imparts, gives, or adds existence to an essence. To do so, the cause must be an existing thing and coexist with its effect.\n\nAvicenna's consideration of the essence-attributes question may be elucidated in terms of his ontological analysis of the modalities of being; namely impossibility, contingency, and necessity. Avicenna argued that the impossible being is that which cannot exist, while the contingent in itself (\"mumkin bi-dhatihi\") has the potentiality to be or not to be without entailing a contradiction. When actualized, the contingent becomes a 'necessary existent due to what is other than itself' (\"wajib al-wujud bi-ghayrihi\"). Thus, contingency-in-itself is potential beingness that could eventually be actualized by an external cause other than itself. The metaphysical structures of necessity and contingency are different. Necessary being due to itself (\"wajib al-wujud bi-dhatihi\") is true in itself, while the contingent being is 'false in itself' and 'true due to something else other than itself'. The necessary is the source of its own being without borrowed existence. It is what always exists.\n\nThe Necessary exists 'due-to-Its-Self', and has no quiddity/essence (\"mahiyya\") other than existence (\"wujud\"). Furthermore, It is 'One' (\"wahid ahad\") since there cannot be more than one 'Necessary-Existent-due-to-Itself' without differentia (fasl) to distinguish them from each other. Yet, to require differentia entails that they exist 'due-to-themselves' as well as 'due to what is other than themselves'; and this is contradictory. However, if no differentia distinguishes them from each other, then there is no sense in which these 'Existents' are not one and the same. Avicenna adds that the 'Necessary-Existent-due-to-Itself' has no genus (\"jins\"), nor a definition (\"hadd\"), nor a counterpart (\"nadd\"), nor an opposite (\"did\"), and is detached (\"bari\") from matter (\"madda\"), quality (\"kayf\"), quantity (\"kam\"), place (\"ayn\"), situation (\"wad\"), and time (\"waqt\").\n\nAvicenna's theology on metaphysical issues (\"ilāhiyyāt\") has been criticized by some Islamic scholars, among them al-Ghazali, Ibn Taymiyya, and Ibn al-Qayyim. While discussing the views of the theists among the Greek philosophers, namely Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle in \"Al-Munqidh min ad-Dalal\" (\"Deliverance from Error\"), al-Ghazali noted that the Greek philosophers \"must be taxed with unbelief, as must their partisans among the Muslim philosophers, such as Ibn Sina and al-Farabi and their likes.\" He added that \"None, however, of the Muslim philosophers engaged so much in transmitting Aristotle's lore\nas did the two men just mentioned. [...] The sum of what we regard as the authentic philosophy of Aristotle, as transmitted by al-Farabi and Ibn Sina, can be reduced to three parts: a part which must be branded as unbelief; a part which must be stigmatized as innovation; and a part which need not be repudiated at all.\n\nAvicenna made an argument for the existence of God which would be known as the \"Proof of the Truthful\" (Arabic: \"al-burhan al-siddiqin\"). Avicenna argued that there must be a \"necessary existent\" (Arabic: \"wajib al-wujud\"), an entity that cannot \"not\" exist and through a series of argument, he identified it with God of Islam. Present-day historian of philosophy Peter Adamson called this argument one of the most influential medieval arguments for God's existence, and Avicenna's biggest contribution to the history of philosophy.\n\nCorrespondence between Ibn Sina (with his student Ahmad ibn 'Ali al-Ma'sumi) and Al-Biruni has survived in which they debated Aristotelian natural philosophy and the Peripatetic school. Abu Rayhan began by asking Avicenna eighteen questions, ten of which were criticisms of Aristotle's \"On the Heavens\".\n\nAvicenna was a devout Muslim and sought to reconcile rational philosophy with Islamic theology. His aim was to prove the existence of God and His creation of the world scientifically and through reason and logic. Avicenna's views on Islamic theology (and philosophy) were enormously influential, forming part of the core of the curriculum at Islamic religious schools until the 19th century. Avicenna wrote a number of short treatises dealing with Islamic theology. These included treatises on the prophets (whom he viewed as \"inspired philosophers\"), and also on various scientific and philosophical interpretations of the Quran, such as how Quranic cosmology corresponds to his own philosophical system. In general these treatises linked his philosophical writings to Islamic religious ideas; for example, the body's afterlife.\n\nThere are occasional brief hints and allusions in his longer works however that Avicenna considered philosophy as the only sensible way to distinguish real prophecy from illusion. He did not state this more clearly because of the political implications of such a theory, if prophecy could be questioned, and also because most of the time he was writing shorter works which concentrated on explaining his theories on philosophy and theology clearly, without digressing to consider epistemological matters which could only be properly considered by other philosophers.\n\nLater interpretations of Avicenna's philosophy split into three different schools; those (such as al-Tusi) who continued to apply his philosophy as a system to interpret later political events and scientific advances; those (such as al-Razi) who considered Avicenna's theological works in isolation from his wider philosophical concerns; and those (such as al-Ghazali) who selectively used parts of his philosophy to support their own attempts to gain greater spiritual insights through a variety of mystical means. It was the theological interpretation championed by those such as al-Razi which eventually came to predominate in the madrasahs.\n\nAvicenna memorized the Quran by the age of ten, and as an adult, he wrote five treatises commenting on suras from the Quran. One of these texts included the \"Proof of Prophecies\", in which he comments on several Quranic verses and holds the Quran in high esteem. Avicenna argued that the Islamic prophets should be considered higher than philosophers.\n\nWhile he was imprisoned in the castle of Fardajan near Hamadhan, Avicenna wrote his famous \"Floating Man\" – literally falling man – thought experiment to demonstrate human self-awareness and the substantiality and immateriality of the soul. Avicenna believed his \"Floating Man\" thought experiment demonstrated that the soul is a substance, and claimed humans cannot doubt their own consciousness, even in a situation that prevents all sensory data input. The thought experiment told its readers to imagine themselves created all at once while suspended in the air, isolated from all , which includes no sensory contact with even their own bodies. He argued that, in this scenario, one would still have self-consciousness. Because it is conceivable that a person, suspended in air while cut off from sense experience, would still be capable of determining his own existence, the thought experiment points to the conclusions that the soul is a perfection, independent of the body, and an immaterial substance. The conceivability of this \"Floating Man\" indicates that the soul is perceived intellectually, which entails the soul's separateness from the body. Avicenna referred to the living human intelligence, particularly the active intellect, which he believed to be the hypostasis by which God communicates truth to the human mind and imparts order and intelligibility to nature. Following is an English translation of the argument:\n\nHowever, Avicenna posited the brain as the place where reason interacts with sensation. Sensation prepares the soul to receive rational concepts from the universal Agent Intellect. The first knowledge of the flying person would be \"I am,\" affirming his or her essence. That essence could not be the body, obviously, as the flying person has no sensation. Thus, the knowledge that \"I am\" is the core of a human being: the soul exists and is self-aware. Avicenna thus concluded that the idea of the self is not logically dependent on any physical thing, and that the soul should not be seen in relative terms, but as a primary given, a substance. The body is unnecessary; in relation to it, the soul is its perfection. In itself, the soul is an immaterial substance.\n\nAvicenna authored a five-volume medical encyclopedia: \"The Canon of Medicine\" (\"Al-Qanun fi't-Tibb\"). It was used as the standard medical textbook in the Islamic world and Europe up to the 18th century. The \"Canon\" still plays an important role in Unani medicine.\n\nAvicenna considered whether events like rare diseases or disorders have natural causes. He used the example of polydactyly to explain his perception that causal reasons exist for all medical events. This view of medical phenomena anticipated developments in the Enlightenment by seven centuries.\n\nIbn Sīnā wrote on Earth sciences such as geology in \"The Book of Healing\". While discussing the formation of mountains, he explained:\n\nIn the \"Al-Burhan\" (\"On Demonstration\") section of \"The Book of Healing\", Avicenna discussed the philosophy of science and described an early scientific method of inquiry. He discusses Aristotle's \"Posterior Analytics\" and significantly diverged from it on several points. Avicenna discussed the issue of a proper methodology for scientific inquiry and the question of \"How does one acquire the first principles of a science?\" He asked how a scientist would arrive at \"the initial axioms or hypotheses of a deductive science without inferring them from some more basic premises?\" He explains that the ideal situation is when one grasps that a \"relation holds between the terms, which would allow for absolute, universal certainty\". Avicenna then adds two further methods for arriving at the first principles: the ancient Aristotelian method of induction (\"istiqra\"), and the method of examination and experimentation (\"tajriba\"). Avicenna criticized Aristotelian induction, arguing that \"it does not lead to the absolute, universal, and certain premises that it purports to provide.\" In its place, he develops a \"method of experimentation as a means for scientific inquiry.\"\n\nAn early formal system of temporal logic was studied by Avicenna. Although he did not develop a real theory of temporal propositions, he did study the relationship between \"temporalis\" and the implication. Avicenna's work was further developed by Najm al-Dīn al-Qazwīnī al-Kātibī and became the dominant system of Islamic logic until modern times. Avicennian logic also influenced several early European logicians such as Albertus Magnus and William of Ockham. Avicenna endorsed the law of noncontradiction proposed by Aristotle, that a fact could not be both true and false at the same time and in the same sense of the terminology used. He stated, \"Anyone who denies the law of noncontradiction should be beaten and burned until he admits that to be beaten is not the same as not to be beaten, and to be burned is not the same as not to be burned.\"\n\nIn mechanics, Ibn Sīnā, in \"The Book of Healing\", developed a theory of motion, in which he made a distinction between the inclination (tendency to motion) and force of a projectile, and concluded that motion was a result of an inclination (\"mayl\") transferred to the projectile by the thrower, and that projectile motion in a vacuum would not cease. He viewed inclination as a permanent force whose effect is dissipated by external forces such as air resistance.\n\nThe theory of motion presented by Avicenna was probably influenced by the 6th-century Alexandrian scholar John Philoponus. Avicenna's is a less sophisticated variant of the theory of impetus developed by Buridan in the 14th century. It is unclear if Buridan was influenced by Avicenna, or by Philoponus directly.\n\nIn optics, Ibn Sina was among those who argued that light had a speed, observing that \"if the perception of light is due to the emission of some sort of particles by a luminous source, the speed of light must be finite.\" He also provided a wrong explanation of the rainbow phenomenon. Carl Benjamin Boyer described Avicenna's (\"Ibn Sīnā\") theory on the rainbow as follows:\n\nIn 1253, a Latin text entitled \"Speculum Tripartitum\" stated the following regarding Avicenna's theory on heat:\n\nAvicenna's legacy in classical psychology is primarily embodied in the \"Kitab al-nafs\" parts of his \"Kitab al-shifa\" (\"The Book of Healing\") and \"Kitab al-najat\" (\"The Book of Deliverance\"). These were known in Latin under the title De Anima (treatises \"on the soul\"). Notably, Avicenna develops what is called the \"flying man\" argument in the Psychology of \"The Cure\" I.1.7 as defense of the argument that the soul is without quantitative extension, which has an affinity with Descartes's \"cogito\" argument (or what phenomenology designates as a form of an \"epoche\").\n\nAvicenna's psychology requires that connection between the body and soul be strong enough to ensure the soul's individuation, but weak enough to allow for its immortality. Avicenna grounds his psychology on physiology, which means his account of the soul is one that deals almost entirely with the natural science of the body and its abilities of perception. Thus, the philosopher's connection between the soul and body is explained almost entirely by his understanding of perception; in this way, bodily perception interrelates with the immaterial human intellect. In sense perception, the perceiver senses the form of the object; first, by perceiving features of the object by our external senses. This sensory information is supplied to the internal senses, which merge all the pieces into a whole, unified conscious experience. This process of perception and abstraction is the nexus of the soul and body, for the material body may only perceive material objects, while the immaterial soul may only receive the immaterial, universal forms. The way the soul and body interact in the final abstraction of the universal from the concrete particular is the key to their relationship and interaction, which takes place in the physical body.\n\nThe soul completes the action of intellection by accepting forms that have been abstracted from matter. This process requires a concrete particular (material) to be abstracted into the universal intelligible (immaterial). The material and immaterial interact through the Active Intellect, which is a \"divine light\" containing the intelligible forms. The Active Intellect reveals the universals concealed in material objects much like the sun makes color available to our eyes.\n\nAvicenna wrote an attack on astrology titled \"Resāla fī ebṭāl aḥkām al-nojūm\", in which he cited passages from the Quran to dispute the power of astrology to foretell the future. He believed that each planet had some influence on the earth, but argued against astrologers being able to determine the exact effects.\n\nAvicenna's astronomical writings had some influence on later writers, although in general his work could be considered less developed than Alhazen or Al-Biruni. One important feature of his writing is that he considers mathematical astronomy as a separate discipline to astrology. He criticized Aristotle's view of the stars receiving their light from the Sun, stating that the stars are self-luminous, and believed that the planets are also self-luminous. He claimed to have observed Venus as a spot on the Sun. This is possible, as there was a transit on May 24, 1032, but Avicenna did not give the date of his observation, and modern scholars have questioned whether he could have observed the transit from his location at that time; he may have mistaken a sunspot for Venus. He used his transit observation to help establish that Venus was, at least sometimes, below the Sun in Ptolemaic cosmology, i.e. the sphere of Venus comes before the sphere of the Sun when moving out from the Earth in the prevailing geocentric model.\n\nHe also wrote the \"Summary of the Almagest\", (based on Ptolemy's \"Almagest\"), with an appended treatise \"to bring that which is stated in the Almagest and what is understood from Natural Science into conformity\". For example, Avicenna considers the motion of the solar apogee, which Ptolemy had taken to be fixed.\n\nIbn Sīnā used steam distillation to produce essential oils such as rose essence, which he used as aromatherapeutic treatments for heart conditions.\n\nUnlike al-Razi, Ibn Sīnā explicitly disputed the theory of the transmutation of substances commonly believed by alchemists:\n\nFour works on alchemy attributed to Avicenna were translated into Latin as:\n\nIbn Sina classified minerals into stones, fusible substances, sulfurs, and salts, building on the ideas of Aristotle and Jabir. The \"epistola de Re recta\" is somewhat less sceptical of alchemy; Anawati argues that it is by Avicenna, but written earlier in his career when he had not yet firmly decided that transmutation was impossible.\n\nAlmost half of Ibn Sīnā's works are versified. His poems appear in both Arabic and Persian. As an example, Edward Granville Browne claims that the following Persian verses are incorrectly attributed to Omar Khayyám, and were originally written by Ibn Sīnā:\n\nAs early as the 13th century when Dante Alighieri depicted him in Limbo alongside the virtuous non-Christian thinkers in his \"Divine Comedy\" such as Virgil, Averroes, Homer, Horace, Ovid, Lucan, Socrates, Plato, and Saladin, Avicenna has been recognized by both East and West, as one of the great figures in intellectual history.\n\nGeorge Sarton, the author of \"The History of Science\", described Ibn Sīnā as \"one of the greatest thinkers and medical scholars in history\" and called him \"the most famous scientist of Islam and one of the most famous of all races, places, and times.\" He was one of the Islamic world's leading writers in the field of medicine.\nAlong with Rhazes, Abulcasis, Ibn al-Nafis, and al-Ibadi, Ibn Sīnā is considered an important compiler of early Muslim medicine. He is remembered in the Western history of medicine as a major historical figure who made important contributions to medicine and the European Renaissance. His medical texts were unusual in that where controversy existed between Galen and Aristotle's views on medical matters (such as anatomy), he preferred to side with Aristotle, where necessary updating Aristotle's position to take into account post-Aristotelian advances in anatomical knowledge. Aristotle's dominant intellectual influence among medieval European scholars meant that Avicenna's linking of Galen's medical writings with Aristotle's philosophical writings in the \"Canon of Medicine\" (along with its comprehensive and logical organisation of knowledge) significantly increased Avicenna's importance in medieval Europe in comparison to other Islamic writers on medicine. His influence following translation of the \"Canon\" was such that from the early fourteenth to the mid-sixteenth centuries he was ranked with Hippocrates and Galen as one of the acknowledged authorities, (\"prince of physicians\").\n\nIn present-day Iran, Afghanistan and Tajikistan, he is considered a national icon, and is often regarded as among the greatest Persians. A monument was erected outside the Bukhara museum. The Avicenna Mausoleum and Museum in Hamadan was built in 1952. Bu-Ali Sina University in Hamadan (Iran),\nthe biotechnology Avicenna Research Institute in Tehran (Iran), the \"ibn Sīnā\" Tajik State Medical University in Dushanbe, Ibn Sina Academy of Medieval Medicine and Sciences at Aligarh, India, Avicenna School in Karachi and Avicenna Medical College in Lahore, Pakistan Ibne Sina Balkh Medical School in his native province of Balkh in Afghanistan, Ibni Sina Faculty Of Medicine of Ankara University Ankara, Turkey, the main classroom building (the Avicenna Building) of the Sharif University of Technology, and Ibn Sina Integrated School in Marawi City (Philippines) are all named in his honour. His portrait hangs in the Hall of the Avicenna Faculty of Medicine in the University of Paris. There is a crater on the Moon named Avicenna and a mangrove genus \"Avicennia\".\nIn 1980, the Soviet Union, which then ruled his birthplace Bukhara, celebrated the thousandth anniversary of Avicenna's birth by circulating various commemorative stamps with artistic illustrations, and by erecting a bust of Avicenna based on anthropological research by Soviet scholars.\nNear his birthplace in Qishlak Afshona, some north of Bukhara, a training college for medical staff has been named for him.\nOn the grounds is a museum dedicated to his life, times and work.\nThe Avicenna Prize, established in 2003, is awarded every two years by UNESCO and rewards individuals and groups for their achievements in the field of ethics in science.\nThe aim of the award is to promote ethical reflection on issues raised by advances in science and technology, and to raise global awareness of the importance of ethics in science.\n\nThe Avicenna Directories (2008–15; now the World Directory of Medical Schools) list universities and schools where doctors, public health practitioners, pharmacists and others, are educated. The original project team stated \"Why Avicenna? Avicenna ... was ... noted for his synthesis of knowledge from both east and west. He has had a lasting influence on the development of medicine and health sciences. The use of Avicenna's name symbolises the worldwide partnership that is needed for the promotion of health services of high quality.\"\nIn June 2009 Iran donated a \"Persian Scholars Pavilion\" to United Nations Office in Vienna which is placed in the central Memorial Plaza of the Vienna International Center. The \"Persian Scholars Pavilion\" at United Nations in Vienna, Austria is featuring the statues of four prominent Iranian figures. Highlighting the Iranian architectural features, the pavilion is adorned with Persian art forms and includes the statues of renowned Iranian scientists Avicenna, Al-Biruni, Zakariya Razi (Rhazes) and Omar Khayyam.\n\nThe 1982 Soviet film \"Youth of Genius\" () by recounts Avicenna's younger years. The film is set in Bukhara at the turn of the millennium.\n\nIn Louis L'Amour's 1985 historical novel \"The Walking Drum\", Kerbouchard studies and discusses Avicenna's \"The Canon of Medicine\".\n\nIn his book \"The Physician\" (1988) Noah Gordon tells the story of a young English medical apprentice who disguises himself as a Jew to travel from England to Persia and learn from Avicenna, the great master of his time. The novel was adapted into a feature film, \"The Physician\", in 2013. Avicenna was played by Ben Kingsley.\n\nThe treatises of Ibn Sīnā influenced later Muslim thinkers in many areas including theology, philology, mathematics, astronomy, physics, and music. His works numbered almost 450 volumes on a wide range of subjects, of which around 240 have survived. In particular, 150 volumes of his surviving works concentrate on philosophy and 40 of them concentrate on medicine.\nHis most famous works are \"The Book of Healing\", and \"The Canon of Medicine\".\n\nIbn Sīnā wrote at least one treatise on alchemy, but several others have been falsely attributed to him. His \"Logic\", \"Metaphysics\", \"Physics\", and \"De Caelo\", are treatises giving a synoptic view of Aristotelian doctrine, though \"Metaphysics\" demonstrates a significant departure from the brand of Neoplatonism known as Aristotelianism in Ibn Sīnā's world;\nArabic philosophers have hinted at the idea that Ibn Sīnā was attempting to \"re-Aristotelianise\" Muslim philosophy in its entirety, unlike his predecessors, who accepted the conflation of Platonic, Aristotelian, Neo- and Middle-Platonic works transmitted into the Muslim world.\n\nThe \"Logic\" and \"Metaphysics\" have been extensively reprinted, the latter, e.g., at Venice in 1493, 1495, and 1546. Some of his shorter essays on medicine, logic, etc., take a poetical form (the poem on logic was published by Schmoelders in 1836). Two encyclopaedic treatises, dealing with philosophy, are often mentioned. The larger, \"Al-Shifa'\" (\"Sanatio\"), exists nearly complete in manuscript in the Bodleian Library and elsewhere; part of it on the \"De Anima\" appeared at Pavia (1490) as the \"Liber Sextus Naturalium\", and the long account of Ibn Sina's philosophy given by Muhammad al-Shahrastani seems to be mainly an analysis, and in many places a reproduction, of the Al-Shifa'. A shorter form of the work is known as the An-najat (\"Liberatio\"). The Latin editions of part of these works have been modified by the corrections which the monastic editors confess that they applied. There is also a (\"hikmat-al-mashriqqiyya\", in Latin \"Philosophia Orientalis\"), mentioned by Roger Bacon, the majority of which is lost in antiquity, which according to Averroes was pantheistic in tone.\n\nAvicenna's works include:\n\nAvicenna's most important Persian work is the \"Danishnama-i 'Alai\" (, \"the Book of Knowledge for [Prince] 'Ala ad-Daulah\"). Avicenna created new scientific vocabulary that had not previously existed in Persian. The Danishnama covers such topics as logic, metaphysics, music theory and other sciences of his time. It has been translated into English by Parwiz Morewedge in 1977. The book is also important in respect to Persian scientific works.\n\n\"Andar Danesh-e Rag\" (, \"On the Science of the Pulse\") contains nine chapters on the science of the pulse and is a condensed synopsis.\n\nPersian poetry from Ibn Sina is recorded in various manuscripts and later anthologies such as \"Nozhat al-Majales\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12247219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12247219", "title": "Aṇḍa", "text": "Aṇḍa\n\nIn Kaśmir Śaivism the world is described as being composed of four spheres () that contain a series of phenomenal elements (tattva). The four \"\" are described to appear by the means of the internal abundance of Śiva's divine powers. Outside the four is Śiva tattva which is the substrate and essential nature of all the other tattvas.\nProjected by the absolute, is the first step of creation. Also called \"the pure creation\" because at this level the divine nature of Śiva is not obscured, it manifests a state of diversity in unity. The divine powers (Śakti) gradually descend from \"Ānanda Śakti\" (bliss) to \"Icchā Śakti\" (the power of will), \"Jñāna Śakti\" (the power of knowledge) and \"Kriyā Śakti\" (the power of action), at the same time creating the basis for the dual creation. At this stage, though, the duality is only \"in concept\"; there is no actual division or limitation yet. This \"\" contains Śakti tattva, Sadāśiva tattva, Iśvara tattva and Śuddha-vidyā tattva (all the pure tattvas except the first one, Śiva tattva).\nThe \"sphere of Māyā\" causes the divine nature and purity that exists in to be forgotten. The divine creation is covered with five limitations (\"kañcuka\") that make the infinite, eternal, perfect in itself, all knowing and all powerful nature of God, as manifested first in the \"\", appear limited in space (Niyati tattva) and time (Kāla tattva), incomplete (Rāga tattva), with limited knowledge (Aśuddha-vidyā tattva) and power of action (Kalā tattva). This contains seven tattvas, from Māyā tattva to .\n\n"}
{"id": "1343424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343424", "title": "Black Power movement", "text": "Black Power movement\n\nThe Black Power movement emphasized racial pride, economic empowerment, and the creation of political and cultural institutions for black people in the United States.\n\nThe movement grew out of the Civil rights movement, as black activists experimented with forms of self-advocacy ranging from political lobbying to armed struggle. The Black Power movement served as a focal point for the view that reformist and pacifist elements of the Civil Rights Moment were not effective in changing race relations.\n\nMotivated by a desire for safety and self-sufficiency that was not available inside redline neighborhoods, Black Power activists founded black-owned bookstores, food cooperatives, farms, media, printing presses, schools, clinics and ambulance services. The international impact of the movement includes the Black Power Revolution in Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nWhile black American thinkers such as Robert F. Williams and Malcolm X influenced the early Black Power movement, the Black Panther Party and its views are widely seen as the cornerstone. It was influenced by philosophies such as pan-Africanism, black nationalism and socialism, as well as contemporary events like the Cuban Revolution and the decolonization of Africa.\n\nAt the movement's peak in the early 1970s, some of its more militant leaders were killed during conflicts with police, prompting many activists to abandon the movement.\n\nThe first popular use of the term \"Black Power\" as a social and racial slogan was by Stokely Carmichael (later known as Kwame Ture) and Willie Ricks (later known as Mukasa Dada), both organizers and spokespersons for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. On June 16, 1966, in a speech in Greenwood, Mississippi, during the March Against Fear, Carmichael led the marchers in a chant for black power that was televised nationally.\n\nBy the late 1960s, Black Power came to represent the demand for more immediate violent action to counter American white supremacy. Most of these ideas were influenced by Malcolm X's criticism of Martin Luther King Jr.'s peaceful protest methods. The 1965 assassination of Malcolm X coupled with the urban uprisings of 1964 and 1965 ignited the movement. New organizations that supported Black Power philosophies ranging from socialism to black nationalism, including the Black Panther Party, grew to prominence.\n\nThe organization Nation of Islam began as a black nationalist movement in the 1930s, inspiring later groups. Malcolm X is largely credited with the group's dramatic increase in membership between the early 1950s and early 1960s (from 500 to 25,000 by one estimate; from 1,200 to 50,000 or 75,000 by another). In March 1964, Malcolm X left the Nation due to disagreements with Elijah Muhammad; among other things, he cited his interest in working with other civil rights leaders, saying that Muhammad had prevented him from doing so. Later, Malcolm X also said Muhammad had engaged in extramarital affairs with young Nation secretariesa serious violation of the group's teachings. On February 21, 1965, Malcolm X was shot and killed while speaking at the Audubon Ballroom in Washington Heights, New York. Three Nation members were convicted of assassinating him.\n\nAfter the Watts riots in Los Angeles in 1965, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee decided to break its ties with the mainstream civil rights movement. They argued that blacks needed to build power of their own, rather than seek accommodations from the power structure in place. SNCC migrated from a philosophy of nonviolence to one of greater militancy after the mid-1960s. The organization established ties with radical groups such as the Students for a Democratic Society.\n\nIn late October 1966, Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seale founded the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense. In formulating a new politics, they drew on their experiences working with a variety of Black Power organizations.\n\nThe Black Panther Party's Ten-Point Program included point five, \"We want education for our people that exposes the true nature of this decadent American society. We want education that teaches us our true history and our role in the present day society.\" This sentiment was echoed in many of the other Black Power organizations; the inadequacy of black education had earlier been remarked on by W.E.B. Du Bois, Marcus Garvey, and Carter G. Woodson.\n\nWith this backdrop, Stokely Carmichael brought political education into his work with SNCC in the rural South. This included get-out-the-vote campaigns and political literacy. Bobby Seale and Huey Newton used education to address the lack of identity in the black community. Seale had worked with youth in an after-school program before starting the Panthers. Through this new education and identity building, they believed they could empower black Americans to claim their freedom.\n\nThe Black Panther Party initially utilized open-carry gun laws to protect party members and local black communities from law enforcement. Party members also recorded incidents of police brutality by distantly following police cars around neighborhoods. Numbers grew slightly starting in February 1967, when the party provided an armed escort at the San Francisco airport for Betty Shabazz, Malcolm X's widow and keynote speaker at conference held in his honor. By 1967, the SNCC began to fall apart due to policy disputes in its leadership and many members left for the Black Panthers. Throughout 1967 the Panthers staged rallies and disrupted the California State Assembly with armed marchers. In late 1967 the FBI developed COINTELPRO to investigate black nationalist groups and other civil rights leaders. By 1969, the Black Panthers and their allies had become primary COINTELPRO targets, singled out in 233 of the 295 authorized \"black nationalist\" COINTELPRO actions. In 1968 the Republic of New Afrika was founded, a separatist group seeking a black country in the southern United States, only to dissolve by the early 1970s.\n\nBy 1968, many Black Panther leaders had been arrested, including founder Huey Newton for the murder of a police officer (Newton's proseuction was eventually dismissed), yet membership surged. Black Panthers later engaged the police in a firefight in a Los Angeles gas station. In the same year, Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, creating nationwide riots, the widest wave of social unrest since the American Civil War. In Cleveland, Ohio, the \"Republic of New Libya\" engaged the police in the Glenville shootout, which was followed by rioting. The year also marked the start of the White Panther Party, a group of whites dedicated to the cause of the Black Panthers. Founders Pun Plamondon and John Sinclair were arrested, but eventually freed, in connection to the bombing of a Central Intelligence Agency office in Ann Arbor, Michigan that September.\n\nBy 1969, the Black Panthers began purging members due to fear of law enforcement infiltration and engaged in multiple gunfights with police, and one with a black nationalist organization. The Panthers continued their \"Free Huey\" campaign internationally. In the spirit of rising militancy, the League of Revolutionary Black Workers was formed in Detroit, which supported labor rights and black liberation.\n\nIn 1970 the Honorary Prime Minister of the Black Panther Party, Stokely Carmichael, traveled to various countries to discuss methods to resist \"American imperialism\". In Trinidad, the black power movement had escalated into the Black Power Revolution in which many Afro-Trinidadians forced the government of Trinidad to give into reforms. Later many Panthers visited Algeria to discuss Pan-Africanism and anti-imperialism. In the same year former Black Panthers formed the Black Liberation Army to continue a violent revolution rather than the party's new reform movements. On October 22, 1970, the Black Liberation Army is believed to have planted a bomb in St. Brendan's Church in San Francisco while it was full of mourners attending the funeral of San Francisco police officer Harold Hamilton, who had been killed in the line of duty while responding to a bank robbery. The bomb was detonated, but no one in the church suffered serious injuries.\n\nIn 1971, several Panther officials fled the U.S. due to police concerns. This was the only active year of the Black Revolutionary Assault Team, a group that bombed the New York South African consular office in protest of apartheid. On September 20 it placed bombs at the UN Missions of Republic of the Congo (Kinshasa) and the Republic of Malawi. In February 1971, ideological splits within the Black Panther Party between leaders Newton and Eldridge Cleaver led to two factions within the party; the conflict turned violent and four people were killed in a series of assassinations. On May 21, 1971, five Black Liberation Army members participated in the shootings of two New York City police officers, Joseph Piagentini and Waverly Jones. Those brought to trial for the shootings include Anthony Bottom (also known as Jalil Muntaqim), Albert Washington, Francisco Torres, Gabriel Torres, and Herman Bell.\n\nDuring the jail sentence of White Panther John Sinclair a \"Free John\" concert took place, including John Lennon and Stevie Wonder. Sinclair was released two days later. On August 29, three BLA members murdered San Francisco police sergeant John Victor Young at his police station. Two days later, the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" received a letter signed by the BLA claiming responsibility for the attack. Late in the year Huey Newton visited China for meetings on Maoist theory and anti-imperialism. Black Power icon George Jackson attempted to escape from prison in August, killing seven hostage only to be killed himself. Jackson's death triggered the Attica Prison uprising which was later ended in a bloody siege. On November 3 Officer James R. Greene of the Atlanta Police Department was shot and killed in his patrol van at a gas station by Black Liberation Army members.\n\n1972 was the year Newton shut down many Black Panther chapters and held a party meeting in Oakland, California. On January 27, the Black Liberation Army assassinated police officers Gregory Foster and Rocco Laurie in New York City. After the killings, a note sent to authorities portrayed the murders as a retaliation for the prisoner deaths during 1971 Attica prison riot. To date no arrests have been made. In the same year, MOVE was founded and engaged in demonstrations for environmentalism and black power. On July 31, five armed BLA members hijacked Delta Air Lines Flight 841, eventually collecting a ransom of $1 million and diverting the plane, after passengers were released, to Algeria. The authorities there seized the ransom but allowed the group to flee. Four were eventually caught by French authorities in Paris, where they were convicted of various crimes, but one – George Wright – remained a fugitive until September 26, 2011, when he was captured in Portugal. After being accused of murdering a prostitute in 1974, Huey Newton fled to Cuba. Elaine Brown became party leader and embarked on an election campaign.\n\nIn the late 1970s a rebel group named after the killed prisoner formed the George Jackson Brigade. From March 1975 to December 1977, the Brigade robbed at least seven banks and detonated about 20 pipe bombs – mainly targeting government buildings, electric power facilities, Safeway stores, and companies accused of racism. In 1977, Newton returned from exile in Cuba. Shortly afterward, Elaine Brown resigned from the party and fled to Los Angeles. The Party fell apart, leaving only a few members.\n\nMOVE became a communal living group. When police raided their house a firefight broke out; one officer was killed, seven other police officers, five firefighters, three MOVE members, and three bystanders were also injured.\nIn another high-profile incident of the Black Liberation Army, Assata Shakur, Zayd Shakur and Sundiata Acoli were said to have opened fire on state troopers in New Jersey after being pulled over for a broken taillight. Zayd Shakur and state trooper Werner Foerster were both killed during the exchange. Following her capture, Assata Shakur was tried in six different criminal trials. According to Shakur, she was beaten and tortured during her incarceration in a number of different federal and state prisons. The charges ranged from kidnapping to assault and battery to bank robbery. Assata Shakur was found guilty of the murder of both Foerster and her companion Zayd Shakur, but escaped prison in 1979 and eventually fled to Cuba and received political asylum. Acoli was convicted of killing Foerster and sentenced to life in prison.\n\nIn 1978 a group of Black Liberation Army and Weather Underground members formed named the May 19th Communist Organization, or M19CO. It also included members of the Black Panthers and the Republic of New Africa.\n\nOver the 1980s the Black Power movement continued despite a decline in its popularity and organization memberships. The Black Liberation Army was active in the US until at least 1981 when a Brinks truck robbery, conducted with support from former Weather Underground members Kathy Boudin and David Gilbert, left a guard and two police officers dead. Boudin and Gilbert, along with several BLA members, were subsequently arrested. M19CO engaged in a bombing campaign in the 1980s. They targeted a series of government and commercial buildings, including the U.S. Senate. On November 3, 1984, two members of the M19CO, Susan Rosenberg and Timothy Blunk, were arrested at a mini-warehouse they had rented in Cherry Hill, New Jersey. Police recovered more than 100 blasting caps, nearly 200 sticks of dynamite, more than 100 cartridges of gel explosive, and 24 bags of blasting agent from the warehouse. The M19CO alliance's last bombing was on February 23, 1985, at the Policemen's Benevolent Association in New York City.\n\nMOVE had relocated to Philadelphia after the earlier shootout. On May 13, 1985, the police, along with city manager Leo Brooks, arrived with arrest warrants and attempted to clear the building and arrest the indicted MOVE members. This led to an armed standoff with police, who lobbed tear gas canisters at the building. MOVE members shot at the police, who returned fire with automatic weapons. The police then bombed the house, causing a large fire.)\n\nIn 1989, well into the waning years of the movement, the New Black Panther Party formed. In the same year on August 22, Huey P. Newton was fatally shot outside by 24-year-old Black Guerilla Family member Tyrone Robinson.\n\nAfter the 1970s the Black Power movement saw a decline, but not an end. In the year 1998 the Black Radical Congress was founded, with debatable effects. The Black Riders Liberation Party was created by Bloods and Crips gang members as an attempt to recreate the Black Panther Party in 1996. The group has spread, creating chapters in cities across the United States, and frequently staging paramilitary marches. During the 2008 presidential election New Black Panther Party members were accused voter intimidation at a polling station in a predominantly black, Democratic voting district of Philadelphia. After the politically upsetting shooting of Trayvon Martin black power paramilitaries formed, including the Huey P. Newton Gun Club, African American Defense League, and the New Black Liberation Militia, all staging armed marches and military training.\n\nSome have compared the modern movement Black Lives Matter to the Black Power movement, noting its similarities.\n\nJust as Black Power activists focused on community control of schools and politics, the movement took a major interest in creating and controlling its own media institutions. Most famously, the Black Panther Party produced the Black Panther newspaper, which proved to be one of the BPP's most influential tools for disseminating its message and recruiting new members.\n\nWAFR was launched in September 1971 as the first public, community-based black radio station. The Durham, North Carolina, station broadcast until 1976, but influenced later activist radio stations including WPFW in Washington, D.C. and WRFG in Atlanta.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30875801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30875801", "title": "Black nationalism", "text": "Black nationalism\n\nBlack nationalism is a type of nationalism or pan-nationalism in the United States which seeks to promote, develop and maintain a black national identity for people of black ancestry.\n\nBlack nationalist activism revolves around social, political, and economic empowerment of black communities and people, especially to resist assimilation into white American culture (through integration or otherwise), and maintain a distinct black identity.\n\nMartin Delany (1812–1885), an African-American abolitionist, was the grandfather of black nationalism.\n\nInspired by the success of the Haitian Revolution, the origins of Black and indigenous African nationalism in political thought lie in the 19th and early 20th centuries with people like Marcus Garvey, Benjamin \"Pap\" Singleton, Henry McNeal Turner, Martin Delany, Henry Highland Garnet, Edward Wilmot Blyden, Paul Cuffe, etc. The repatriation of African-American slaves to Liberia or Sierra Leone was a common black nationalist theme in the 19th century. Marcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association of the 1910s and 1920s was the most powerful black nationalist movement to date, claiming millions of members. Garvey's movement was opposed by mainline black leaders, and crushed by government action. However its many alumni remembered its inspiring rhetoric.\n\nAccording to Wilson Jeremiah Moses, black nationalism as a philosophy can be examined from three different periods. giving rise to various ideological perspectives for what we can today consider black nationalism.\n\nThe first period of pre-classical black nationalism began when the first Africans were brought to the Americas as slaves through the American Revolutionary period.\n\nThe second period of black nationalism began after the Revolutionary War. This period refers to the time when a sizeable number of educated Africans within the colonies (specifically within New England and Pennsylvania) had become disgusted with the social conditions that arose out of the Enlightenment's ideas. From this way of thinking came the rise of individuals within the black community who sought to create organizations that would unite black people. The intention of these organizations was to group black people together so they could voice their concerns, and help their own community advance itself. This form of thinking can be found in historical personalities such as; Prince Hall, Richard Allen and Absalom Jones, James Forten, Cyrus Bustill, William Gray through their need to become founders of certain organizations such as African Masonic lodges, the Free African Society, and Church Institutions such as the African Episcopal Church of St. Thomas. These institutions served as early foundations to developing independent and separate organizations for their own people. The goal was to create groups was to include those who so many times had been excluded from (exclusively) white community and government-funded organizations.\n\nThe third period of black nationalism arose during the post-Reconstruction era, particularly among various African-American clergy circles. Separated circles were already established and accepted because African-Americans had long endured the oppression of slavery and Jim Crowism in the United States since its inception. The clerical phenomenon led to the birth of a modern form of black nationalism that stressed the need to separate blacks from non-blacks and build separate communities that would promote racial pride and collectivize resources. The new ideology became the philosophy of groups like the Moorish Science Temple and the Nation of Islam. By 1930, Wallace Fard Muhammad had founded the Nation of Islam. His method to spread information about the Nation of Islam used unconventional tactics to recruit individuals in Detroit, Michigan. Later on, Elijah Muhammad would lead the Nation of Islam and become a mentor to people like Malcolm X. Although the 1960s brought a period of heightened religious, cultural and political nationalism, it was black nationalism that would lead the promotion of Afrocentrism.\n\nPrince Hall was an important social leader of Boston following the Revolutionary War. He is well known for his contribution as the founder of Black Freemasonry. His life and past are unclear, but he is believed to have been a former slave freed after twenty one years of slavehood. In 1775 fifteen other black men along with Hall joined a freemason lodge of British soldiers, after the departure of the soldiers they created their own lodge African Lodge #1 and were granted full stature in 1784. Despite their stature other white freemason lodges in America didn’t treat them equal and so Hall began to help other black Masonic lodges across the country to help their own cause.(To progress as a community together despite any difficulties brought to them by racists). Hall was best recognized for his contribution to the black community along with his petitions ( many denied) in the name of black nationalism. In 1787 he unsuccessfully petitioned to the Massachusetts legislature to send blacks back to Africa(to obtain “complete” freedom from white supremacy). In 1788, Hall was a well known contributor to the passing of the legislation of the outlawing of the slave-trade and those involved. Hall continued his efforts to help his community, and in 1796 his petition for Boston to approve funding for black schools. Despite the city’s inability to provide a building, Hall lent his building for the school to run from. Until his death in 1807, Hall continued to work for black rights in issues of abolition, civil rights and the advancement of the community overall.\n\nIn 1787 Richard Allen and Absalom Jones black ministers of Pennsylvania and formed the Free African Society of Pennsylvania. The goal of this organization was to create a church that was free of restrictions of only one form of religion, and to pave the way for the creation of a house of worship exclusive to their community (which in 1793 they were successful in doing, creating the St. Thomas African Episcopal Church). The community included many members who were notably abolitionist men and former slaves. Allen following his own beliefs that worship should be out loud and outspoken left the organization two years later. With the re an opportunity to become the pastor to the church but rejected the offer leaving it to Jones. The society itself was a memorable charitable organization that allowed its members to socialize and network with other business partners, in attempt to better their community. Its activity and open doors served as a motivational growth for the city as many other black mutual aid societies in the city began to pop up. Additionally the society is well known for their aid during the yellow fever epidemic in 1793 known to have taken the life of many of the city.\n\nThe African Church or the African Episcopal Church of St. Thomas Philadelphia, Pennsylvania was founded in 1792 for those of African descent, as a foster church for the community with the goal to be interdenominational. In the beginning of the church's establishment its masses were held in homes and local schools. One of the founders of the Free African Society was also the first Episcopal priest of African American descent, Absalom Jones. The original church house was constructed at 5th and Adelphi Streets in Philadelphia, now St. James Place, and it was dedicated on July 17, 1794 other locations of the church included: 12th Street near Walnut, 57th and Pearl Streets, 52nd and Parrish Streets, and the current location, Overbrook and Lancaster Avenue in Philadelphia’s historic Overbrook Farms neighborhood. The church is mostly African American. The church and its members have played a key role in the abolition/anti-slavery and equal rights movement of the 1800s.\n\n“Since 1960 St. Thomas has been involved in the local and national civil rights movement through its work with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), the Union of Black Episcopalians, the Opportunities Industrialization Center (OIC), Philadelphia Interfaith Action, and The Episcopal Church Women. Most importantly, it has been in the forefront of the movement to uphold the knowledge and value of the black presence in the Episcopal Church. Today, that tradition continues with a still-growing membership through a host of ministries such as Christian Formation, the Chancel Choir, Gospel Choir, Jazz Ensemble, Men’s Fellowship, Young Adult and Youth Ministries, a Church School, Health Ministry, Caring Ministry, and a Shepherding Program.”\n\nWallace D. Fard founded the Nation of Islam in the 1930s. Fard took as his student Elijah (Poole) Muhammad, who later became the leader of the organization. The basis of the group was the belief that Christianity was exclusively a White man's religion, while Islam was the way for black folk; Christianity was a religion that, like slavery itself, was forced upon the people who suffered at the hands of the whites during their enslavement. The beliefs of the members of the Nation of Islam are similar to others who follow the Quran and worship Allah under the religion of Islam. Founded on resentment of the way Whites historically treated people of color, the Nation of Islam embraces the ideas of black nationalism. The group itself has, since the leadership of Elijah Muhammad, recruited thousands of followers from all segments of society: from prisons, as well as from black pride and black nationalist movements. Members of the Nation of Islam preached that the goal was not to integrate into White American culture, but rather to create their own cultural footprint and their own separate community in order to obliterate oppression. Their aim was to have their own schools and churches and to support each other without any reliance on other racial groups. The members of the Nation of Islam are known as Black Muslims. As the group became more and more prominent with public figures such as Malcolm X as its orators, it received increasing attention from outsiders. In 1959 the group was the subject of a documentary named \"The Hate that Hate Produced\". The documentary cast the organization in a negative light, depicting it as a black supremacy group. Even with such depictions, the group did not lose support from its people. When Elijah Muhammad died, his son took on the role as the leader of the Nation of Islam, converting the organization into a more orthodox iteration of Islam and abandoning beliefs that tended toward violence. This conversion prompted others to abandon the group, dissatisfied with the change in ideology. They created a “New” Nation of Islam in order to restore the aims of the original organization.\n\nThe Southern Poverty Law Center classifies the Nation of Islam as a hate group, stating: \"Its theology of innate black superiority over whites and the deeply racist, antisemitic and anti-LGBT rhetoric of its leaders have earned the NOI a prominent position in the ranks of organized hate.\" Louis Farrakhan currently leads the group.\n\nElijah Muhammad was famously known as the successor of Wallace Fard, the founder of the Nation of Islam. He was born in Georgia on October 7, 1897. He led the group from 1934-1975, being very well recognized as one of the mentors to other famous leaders such as Malcolm X. He lived until February 25, 1975 in Chicago, and the leadership of the organization passed to his son.\n\nMarcus Garvey encouraged African people around the world to be proud of their race and see beauty in their own kind. This form of black nationalism later became known as Garveyism. A central idea to Garveyism was that African people in every part of the world were one people and they would never advance if they did not put aside their cultural and ethnic differences and unite under their own shared history. He was heavily influenced by the earlier works of Booker T. Washington, Martin Delany, and Henry McNeal Turner. Garvey used his own personal magnetism and the understanding of black psychology and the psychology of confrontation to create a movement that challenged bourgeois blacks for the minds and souls of African Americans. Marcus Garvey's return to America had to do with his desire to meet with the man who inspired him most, Booker T. Washington but unfortunately Garvey did not return in time to meet Washington. Despite this, Garvey moved forward with his efforts and two years later, a year after Washington's death, Garvey established a similar organization in America known as the United Negro Improvement Association otherwise known as the UNIA. Garvey's beliefs are articulated in \"The Philosophy and Opinions of Marcus Garvey\" as well as \"Message To The People: The Course of African Philosophy\".\n\nBetween 1953 and 1964, while most African leaders worked in the civil rights movement to integrate African-American people into mainstream American life, Malcolm X was an avid advocate of black independence and the reclaiming of black pride and masculinity. He maintained that there was hypocrisy in the purported values of Western culture – from its Judeo-Christian religious traditions to American political and economic institutions – and its inherently racist actions. He maintained that separatism and control of politics, and economics within its own community would serve blacks better than the tactics of civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and mainstream civil rights groups such as the SCLC, SNCC, NAACP, and CORE. Malcolm X declared that nonviolence was the \"philosophy of the fool,\" and that to achieve anything, African Americans would have to reclaim their national identity, embrace the rights covered by the Second Amendment, and defend themselves from white hegemony and extrajudicial violence. In response to Rev. Martin Luther King's famous \"I Have a Dream\" speech, Malcolm X quipped, \"While King was having a dream, the rest of us Negroes are having a nightmare.\"\n\nPrior to his pilgrimage to Mecca, Malcolm X believed that African Americans must develop their own society and ethical values, including the self-help, community-based enterprises, that the black Muslims supported. He also thought that African Americans should reject integration or cooperation with whites until they could achieve internal cooperation and unity. He prophetically believed that there \"would be bloodshed\" if the racism problem in America remained ignored, and he renounced \"compromise\" with whites. In April 1964, Malcolm X participated in a Hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca); Malcolm found himself restructuring his views and recanted several extremist opinions during his shift to mainstream Islam.\n\nMalcolm X returned from Mecca with moderate views that included an abandonment of his commitment to racial separatism. However, he still supported black nationalism and advocated that African Americans in the United States act proactively in their campaign for equal human rights, instead of relying on Caucasian citizens to change the laws that govern society. The tenets of Malcolm X's new philosophy are articulated in the charter of his Organization of Afro-American Unity (a secular Pan-Africanist group patterned after the Organization of African Unity), and he inspired some aspects of the future Black Panther movement.\n\nIn the 1967 \"Black Power\", Stokely Carmichael introduces black nationalism. He illustrates the prosperity of the black race in the United States as being dependent on the implementation of black sovereignty. Under his theory, black nationalism in the United States would allow blacks to socially, economically and politically be empowered in a manner that has never been plausible in America history. A black nation would work to reverse the exploitation of the black race in America, as blacks would intrinsically work to benefit their own state of affairs. African Americans would function in an environment of running their own businesses, banks, government, media and so on and so forth. Black nationalism is the opposite of integration, and Carmichael contended integration is harmful to the black population. As blacks integrate to white communities they are perpetuating a system in which blacks are inferior to whites. Blacks would continue to function in an environment of being second class citizens, he believes, never reaching equity to white citizens. Stokley Carmichael uses the concept of black nationalism to promote an equality that would begin to dismantle institutional racism.\n\nWhile in France, Frantz Fanon wrote his first book, \"Black Skin, White Masks,\" an analysis of the impact of colonial subjugation on the African psyche. This book was a very personal account of Fanon’s experience being black: as a man, an intellectual, and a party to a French education. Although Fanon wrote the book while still in France, most of his other work was written while in North Africa (in particular Algeria). It was during this time that he produced \"The Wretched of the Earth\" where Fanon analyzes the role of class, race, national culture and violence in the struggle for decolonization. In this work, Fanon expounded his views on the liberating role of violence for the colonized, as well as the general necessity of violence in the anti-colonial struggle. Both books established Fanon in the eyes of much of the Third World as one of the leading anti-colonial thinkers of the 20th century. In 1959 he compiled his essays on Algeria in a book called \"L'An Cinq: De la Révolution Algérienne\".\n\nNorm R. Allen, Jr., former director of African Americans for Humanism, calls black nationalism a \"strange mixture of profound thought and patent nonsense\".\nOn the one hand, Reactionary Black Nationalists (RBNs) advocate self-love, self-respect, self-acceptance, self-help, pride, unity, and so forth - much like the right-wingers who promote \"traditional family values.\" But - also like the holier-than-thou right-wingers - RBNs promote bigotry, intolerance, hatred, sexism, homophobia, anti-Semitism, pseudo-science, irrationality, dogmatic historical revisionism, violence, and so forth.\n\nAllen further criticizes black nationalists' strong \"attraction for hardened prisoners and ex-cons\", their encouragement of violence when other African-American individuals or groups are branded as \"Toms,\" traitors, or \"sellouts\", the blatantly sexist stance and the similarities to white supremacist ideologies: Many RBNs routinely preach hate. Just as white supremacists have referred to African Americans as \"devils,\" so have many RBNs referred to whites. White supremacists have verbally attacked gays, as have RBNs. White supremacists embrace paranoid conspiracy theories, as do their African counterparts. Many white supremacists and RBNs consistently deny that they are preaching hate, and blame the mainstream media for misrepresenting them. (A striking exception is the NOI's Khallid Muhammad, who, according to Gates, admitted in a taped speech titled \"No Love for the Other Side,\" \"Never will I say I am not anti-Semitic. I pray that God will kill my enemy and take him off the face of the planet.\") Rather, they claim they are teaching \"truth\" and advocating the love of their own people, as though love of self and hatred of others are mutually exclusive positions. On the contrary, RBNs preach love of self and hatred of their enemies. (Indeed, it often seems that these groups are motivated more by hatred of their enemies than love of their people.)\n\nNigerian-born professor of History and Director of the African American Studies program at the University of Montana, Tunde Adeleke, argues in his book \"UnAfrican Americans: Nineteenth-Century Black Nationalists and the Civilizing Mission\" that 19th-century African-American nationalism embodied the racist and paternalistic values of Euro-American culture and that black nationalist plans were not designed for the immediate benefit of Africans but to enhance their own fortunes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22080294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22080294", "title": "Bonifaty Kedrov", "text": "Bonifaty Kedrov\n\nBonifaty Mikhailovich Kedrov () (, Yaroslavl — 10 September 1985, Moscow) was a notable Soviet researcher, philosopher, logician, chemist and psychologist. He joined the Bolsheviks in 1918.\n\nKedrov had a Doctor of Philosophy degree and specialized in philosophical questions of the natural sciences. He was a member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences since 1966, author of over one thousand publications.\n\nKedrov was (since 1963) member of the International Academy of the History of Science and a number of other institutions. Kedrov was one of the initiators and the first editor-in-chief of \"Problems of philosophy\" (Voprosy filosofii) a leading Soviet journal of philosophy, from 1947 to 1949.\n\nTHE SCIENCE (1968) in association with Alexander Spirkin\n"}
{"id": "23182623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23182623", "title": "Chungliang Al Huang", "text": "Chungliang Al Huang\n\nChungliang “Al” Huang () is a notable philosopher, dancer, performing artist, and internationally acclaimed taijiquan master and educator, having received the Republic of China’s most prestigious award in the field of education, the Gold Medal Award, from its Ministry of Education.\n\nAs the Keynote speaker at the Major World Gatherings in India, Switzerland, Germany, and Bali, Chungliang \"Al\" Huang appeared with many notable world leaders of religion and spiritual philosophy including the Dalai Lama.\n\nHuang is the founder-president of the Living Tao Foundation based on the Oregon Coast of the United States, and the International Lan Ting Institute, located in the sacred mountains of China.\n\nHuang was featured in the inaugural segment of Bill Moyers’ renowned PBS series \"A World of Ideas” (1988, 1990).\n\nThroughout his career, Huang established many close alliances with highly regarded philosophers and scholars of our time. Notably, his colleague and collaborator, the late philosopher scholar Alan Watts, mythologist Joseph Campbell, and his mentor John Blofeld.\n\nHuang was born in Shanghai in the 1930s. His family moved to Taiwan at the end of the Chinese civil war. He grew up with a rich background in the classics, fine and martial arts, and the Beijing Opera techniques and moved to the United States in the 1960s to study Architecture, Cultural Anthropology, and Choreography.\n\nHuang became a taijiquan teacher at the encouragement of Alan Watts, and became involved with the Human Potential Movement. His 1973 book \"Embrace Tiger, Return to Mountain\" greatly helped to popularize taijiquan in the West. It went on to be published in 14 languages.\n\nHe has taught at Esalen Institute in Big Sur, CA since the late 1960s. Huang was a close colleague and collaborator with the late scholar Alan Watts, mythologist Joseph Campbell, Gregory Bateson, Laura Archera Huxley, John Blofeld, and Huston Smith.\n\nHuang is well known for his collaborations with philosopher Alan Watts, Joseph Campbell and others for his involvement with Esalen Institute and the Omega Institute. He also appeared on the Bill Moyers series \"A World of Ideas\" on PBS. He now is the creator and president of the Living Tao Foundation and the Lan Ting Institute, which helps promote Chinese arts.\n\nHuang entered the performance arena through the entertainment business and gained recognition as a dancer with the original Rat Pack with Sammy Davis Jr., performing with Bruce Lee, and as a featured dancer in the film, \"Flower Drum Song\".\n\nHuang was soloist with his own theater/dance company performing at Jacob's Pillow, in New York City and at the American Dance Festival.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Huang co-created with Paul Winter Consort “The Tao of Bach: A Tai Ji Musical Offering” concert series at The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine in New York City and at Grace Cathedral in San Francisco.\n\nCollaborators in the past have included entertainer Sammy Davis, Jr., pianists Lorin Hollander and Robert Levin, flutists Alexander Murray, Michael Faust, Lorna McGhee; trumpeter Guy Few; Jazz musician, Paul Horn, Charles Lloyd; cellists David Darling and Michael Fitzpatrick; singers John Denver, Joan Baez; and harpist Andreas Vollenweider.\n\nHuang is a respected speaker in the field of human potentiality, on cultural diversity and creative dynamism in global business and education. Huang’s unique style of teaching individuals to fulfill their human potential has garnered accolades and nurtured students of life around the world. This enlivened body of knowledge/wisdom, accumulated and crystallized into gems of structured guiding forces for nearly four decades, are transmitted to those who truly wish to gain this knowledge, wisdom, and expertise in order to become Living Tao Practitioners – perpetual students of lifelong learning who have been, and will become mentors to others.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5863519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5863519", "title": "Defeater", "text": "Defeater\n\nIn epistemology, a defeater is a belief B1 that is held to be incompatible with another belief B2, hence arguments or evidence supporting B1 can be used to refute B2.\n\nAn undercutting defeater is B1 such that B1 does not \"oppose\" B2, but rather that the ramifications of B1, \"were it possible\" to obtain, cast doubt on the premises for B2.\n\nAn opposing defeater is B1 such that B1 has a factual or otherwise claim that, were it to be obtained, would falsify B2.\n\n"}
{"id": "1445626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1445626", "title": "Eunicycle", "text": "Eunicycle\n\nA Eunicycle is a computer-controlled, partially self-balancing, motorized unicycle invented by Trevor Blackwell. It uses a computer control system similar to the one used by the Segway HT that servos its wheel to balance itself by keeping the contact point of the wheel below the center of mass of the vehicle in the front-to-back direction. To balance from side to side, the rider must rotate the vehicle the same way a unicyclist does, enabling the balancing servo to balance in the new direction.\n\nThe Eunicycle is based on an open design; the engineering drawings and control software source code are available from the website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5745363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5745363", "title": "Evolutionary pressure", "text": "Evolutionary pressure\n\nAny cause that reduces reproductive success in a portion of a population potentially exerts evolutionary pressure, selective pressure or selection pressure, driving natural selection. With sufficient pressure, inherited traits that mitigate its effects—even if they would be deleterious in other circumstances—can become widely spread through a population. It is a quantitative description of the amount of change occurring in processes investigated by evolutionary biology, but the formal concept is often extended to other areas of research.\n\nIn population genetics, selection pressure is usually expressed as a selection coefficient.\n\nIt has been shown that putting an amino acid bio-synthesizing gene like \"HIS4\" gene under amino acid selective pressure in yeast causes enhancement of expression of adjacent genes which is due to the transcriptional co-regulation of two adjacent genes in Eukaryota.\n\nDrug resistance in bacteria is an example of an outcome of natural selection.\nWhen a drug is used on a species of bacteria, those that cannot resist die and do not produce offspring, while those that survive potentially pass on the resistance gene to the next generation (vertical gene transmission). The resistance gene can also be passed on to one bacterium by another of a different species (horizontal gene transmission). Because of this, the drug resistance increases over generations. For example, in hospitals, environments are created where pathogens such as \"C\". \"difficile\" have developed a resistance to antibiotics. Antibiotic resistance is made worse by the misuse of antibiotics. Antibiotic resistance is encouraged when antibiotics are used to treat non-bacterial diseases, and when antibiotics are not used for the prescribed amount of time or in the prescribed dose. Antibiotic resistance may arise out of standing genetic variation in a population or de novo mutations in the population. Either pathway could lead to antibiotic resistance, which may be a form of evolutionary rescue.\n\n\"Clostridium difficile\", gram-positive bacteria species that inhabits the gut of mammals, exemplifies one type of bacteria that is a major cause of death by nosocomial infections.\n\nWhen symbiotic gut flora populations are disrupted (e.g., by antibiotics), one becomes more vulnerable to pathogens. The rapid evolution of antibiotic resistance places an enormous selective pressure on the advantageous alleles of resistance passed down to future generations. The Red Queen hypothesis shows that the evolutionary arms race between pathogenic bacteria and humans is a constant battle for evolutionary advantages in outcompeting each other. The evolutionary arms race between the rapidly evolving virulence factors of the bacteria and the treatment practices of modern medicine requires evolutionary biologists to understand the mechanisms of resistance in these pathogenic bacteria, especially considering the growing number of infected hospitalized patients. The evolved virulence factors pose a threat to patients in hospitals, who are immunocompromised from illness or antibiotic treatment. Virulence factors are the characteristics that the evolved bacteria have developed to increase pathogenicity. One of the virulence factors of \"C\". \"difficile\" that largely constitutes its resistance to antibiotics is its toxins: enterotoxin TcdA and cytotoxin TcdB. Toxins produce spores that are difficult to inactivate and remove from the environment. This is especially true in hospitals where an infected patient's room may contain spores for up to 20 weeks. Combating the threat of the rapid spread of CDIs is therefore dependent on hospital sanitation practices removing spores from the environment. A study published in the \"American Journal of Gastroenterology\" found that to control the spread of CDIs glove use, hand hygiene, disposable thermometers and disinfection of the environment are necessary practices in health facilities. The virulence of this pathogen is remarkable and may take a radical change at sanitation approaches used in hospitals to control CDI outbreaks.\n\nThe Malaria parasite can exert a selective pressure on populations. This pressure has led to natural selection for erythrocytes carrying the sickle cell hemoglobin gene mutation (Hb S)—causing sickle cell anaemia—in areas where malaria is a major health concern, because the condition grants some resistance to this infectious disease.\n\nJust as with the development of antibiotic resistance in bacteria, resistance to pesticides and herbicides has begun to appear with commonly used agricultural chemicals. For example:\n\nHuman activity can lead to unintended changes in the environment. The human activity will have a possible negative effect on a certain population, causing many individuals from said population to die due to not being adapted to this new pressure. The individuals that are better adapted to this new pressure will survive and reproduce at a higher rate than those who are at a disadvantage. This occurs over many generations until the population as a whole is better adapted to the pressure. This is natural selection at work, but the pressure is coming from man-made activity such as building roads or hunting. This is seen in the below examples of cliff swallows and elk. However, not all human activity that causes an evolutionary pressure happens unintentionally. This is demonstrated in dog domestication and the subsequent selective breeding that resulted in the various breeds known today.\n\nPopulations of cliff swallows in Nebraska have displayed morphological changes in their wings after many years of living next to roads. Collecting data for over 30 years, researchers noticed a decline in wingspan of living swallow populations, while also noting a decrease in the number of cliff swallows killed by passing cars. Those cliff swallows that were killed by passing cars showed a larger wingspan than the population as a whole. Confounding effects such as road usage, car size, and population size were shown to have no impact on the study.\n\nEvolutionary pressure imposed by humans is also seen in elk populations. These studies do not look at morphological differences, but behavioral differences. Faster and more mobile male elk were shown to be more likely to fall prey to hunters. The hunters create an environment where the more active animals are more likely to succumb to predation than less active animals. Female elk who survived past two years, would decrease their activity as each year passed, leaving more shy female elk that were more likely to survive. Female elk in a separate study also showed behavioral differences, with older females displaying the timid behavior that one would expect from this selection.\n\nSince the domestication of dogs, they have evolved alongside humans due to pressure from humans and the environment. This began by humans and wolves sharing the same area, with a pressure to coexist eventually leading to their domestication. Evolutionary pressure from humans led to many different breeds that paralleled the needs of the time, whether it was a need for protecting livestock or assisting in the hunt. Hunting and herding were a couple of the first reasons for humans artificially selecting for traits they deemed beneficial. This selective breeding does not stop there, but extends to humans selecting for certain traits deemed desirable in their domesticated dogs, such as size and color, even if they are not necessarily beneficial to the human in a tangible way. An unintended consequence of this selection is that domesticated dogs also tend to have heritable diseases depending on what specific breed they encompass.\n\n"}
{"id": "41335468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41335468", "title": "Hazelcast", "text": "Hazelcast\n\nIn computing, Hazelcast IMDG is an open source in-memory data grid based on Java. It is also the name of the company developing the product. The Hazelcast company is funded by venture capital and headquartered in Palo Alto.\n\nIn a Hazelcast grid, data is evenly distributed among the nodes of a computer cluster, allowing for horizontal scaling of processing and available storage. Backups are also distributed among nodes to protect against failure of any single node. Hazelcast provides central, predictable scaling of applications through in-memory access to frequently used data and across an elastically scalable data grid. These techniques reduce the query load on databases and improve speed.\n\nHazelcast can run on-premises, in the cloud (Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, Cloud Foundry, OpenShift), virtually (VMware), and in Docker containers. Hazelcast offers technology integrations for multiple cloud configuration and deployment technologies, including Apache jclouds, Consul, etcd, Eureka, Kubernetes, and Zookeeper. The Hazelcast Cloud Discovery Service Provider Interface (SPI) enables cloud-based or on-premises nodes to auto-discover each other.\n\nThe Hazelcast platform can manage memory for many different types of applications. It offers an Open Binary Client Protocol to support APIs for any binary programing language. The Hazelcast and open source community members have created client APIs for programming languages that include Java, Scala, .NET Framework, C++, Python, Node.js, Golang and Clojure. Java and Scala can be used for both clients and embedded members.\n\nTypical use-cases for Hazelcast include:\n\nHazelcast is often used as an underlying library or system onto which other higher level features are built, with notable examples including:\n\nHazelcast is also used in academia and research as a framework for distributed execution and storage.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1018292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1018292", "title": "Hylozoism", "text": "Hylozoism\n\nHylozoism is the philosophical point of view that matter is in some sense alive. The concept dates back at least as far as the Milesian school of pre-Socratic philosophers. The term was introduced to English by Ralph Cudworth in 1678.\n\nAlthough there is a distinction between possessing a mind (hylopsychism) and possessing life (hylozoism); in practice this division is difficult to maintain, because the ancient hylozoists not only regarded the spirits of the material universe and plant world as alive, but also as more or less conscious. Whereas animism tends to view life as taking the form of discrete spirits, and panpsychism tends to refer to strictly philosophical views like that of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, hylozoism refers largely to views such as those of the earliest Greek philosophers (6th and 5th centuries BC), who treated the magnet as alive because of its attractive powers (Thales), or air as divine (Anaximenes), perhaps because of its apparently spontaneous power of movement, or because of its essentiality for life in animals. Later this primitive hylozoism reappeared in modified forms. Some scholars have since claimed that the term \"hylozoism\" should properly be used only where body and soul are explicitly distinguished, the distinction then being rejected as invalid. Nevertheless, hylozoism remains logically distinct both from early forms of animism, which personify nature, and from panpsychism, which attributes some form of consciousness or sensation to all matter.\n\nSome of the ancient Greek philosophers taught a version of hylozoism, as they, however vaguely, conceived the elemental matter as being in some sense animate if not actually conscious and (a directed effort, a striving or tendency; a \"nisus\"). Thales, Anaximenes, and Heraclitus all taught that there is a form of life in all material objects, and the Stoics believed that a \"world soul\" was the vital force of the universe. Note that these philosophies did not necessarily hold that material objects had \"separate life\" or \"identity\", only that they had life, either as part of an overriding entity or as living but insensible entities.\n\nIn the Renaissance, Bernardino Telesio, Paracelsus, Cardanus, and Giordano Bruno revived the doctrine of hylozoism. The latter, for example, held a form of Christian pantheism, wherein God is the source, cause, medium, and end of all things, and therefore all things are participatory in the ongoing Godhead. Bruno's ideas were so radical that he was entirely rejected by the Roman Catholic Church as well as excommunicated from a few Protestant groups, and he was eventually burned at the stake for various heresies. Telesio, on the other hand, began from an Aristotelian basis and, through radical empiricism, came to believe that a living force was what informed all matter. Instead of the intellectual universals of Aristotle, he believed that life generated form.\n\nIn England, some of the Cambridge Platonists approached hylozoism as well. Both Henry More and Ralph Cudworth (\"the Younger\", 1617–1688), through their reconciliation of Platonic idealism with Christian doctrines of deific generation, came to see the divine lifeforce as the informing principle in the world. Thus, like Bruno, but not nearly to the extreme, they saw God's generative impulse as giving life to all things that exist. Accordingly, Cudworth, the most systematic metaphysician of the Cambridge Platonist tradition, fought hylozoism. His work is primarily a critique of what he took to be the two principal forms of atheism—materialism and hylozoism.\n\nCudworth singled out Hobbes not only as a defender of the hylozoic atheism \"which attributes life to matter\", but also as one going beyond it and defending \"hylopathian atheism, which attributes all to matter.\" Cudworth attempted to show that Hobbes had revived the doctrines of Protagoras and was therefore subject to the criticisms which Plato had deployed against Protagoras in the \"Theaetetus\". On the side of hylozoism, Strato of Lampsacus was the official target. However, Cudworth's Dutch friends had reported to him the views which Spinoza was circulating in manuscript. Cudworth remarks in his \"Preface\" that he would have ignored hylozoism had he not been aware that a new version of it would shortly be published.\n\nSpinoza's idealism also tends toward hylozoism. In order to hold a balance even between matter and mind, Spinoza combined materialistic with pantheistic hylozoism, by demoting both to mere attributes of the one infinite substance. Although specifically rejecting identity in inorganic matter, he, like the Cambridge Platonists, sees a life force within, as well as beyond, all matter.\n\nImmanuel Kant presented arguments against hylozoism in the third chapter of his \"Metaphysische Anfangsgründe der Naturwissenschaften\" (\"First Metaphysical Principles of Natural Science,\" 1786) and also in his famous \"Kritik der reinen Vernunft\" (\"Critique of Pure Reason,\" 1783). Yet, in our times, scientific hylozoism – whether modified, or keeping the trend to make all beings conform to some uniform pattern, to which the concept was adhered in modernity by Herbert Spencer, Hermann Lotze, and Ernst Haeckel – was often called upon as a protest against a mechanistic worldview.\n\nIn the 19th century, Haeckel developed a materialist form of hylozoism, specially against Rudolf Virchow's and Hermann von Helmholtz's mechanical views of humans and nature. In his \"Die Welträtsel\" of 1899 (\"The Riddle of the Universe\" 1901), Haeckel upheld a unity of organic and inorganic nature and derived all actions of both types of matter from natural causes and laws. Thus, his form of hylozoism reverses the usual course by maintaining that living and nonliving things are essentially the same, and by erasing the distinction between the two and stipulating that they behave by a single set of laws.\n\nIn contrast, the Argentine-German neurobiological tradition terms \"hylozoic hiatus\" all of the parts of nature which can only behave lawfully or nomically and, upon such a feature, are described as lying outside of minds and amid them – i.e. extramentally. Thereby the hylozoic hiatus becomes contraposed to minds deemed able of behaving semoviently, i.e. able of inaugurating new causal series (semovience). Hylozoism in this contemporary neurobiological tradition is thus restricted to the portions of nature behaving nomically inside the minds, namely the minds' sensory reactions (Christfried Jakob's \"sensory intonations\") whereby minds react to the stimuli coming from the hylozoic hiatus or extramental realm.\n\nMartin Buber too takes an approach that is quasi-hylozoic. By maintaining that the essence of things is identifiable and separate, although not pre-existing, he can see a soul within each thing.\n\nThe French Pythagorean and Rosicrucian alchemist, Francois Jollivet-Castelot (1874-1937), established a hylozoic esoteric school which combined the insight of spagyrics, chemistry, physics, transmutations and metaphysics. He published many books, one of which was called \"L’Hylozoïsme, l’alchimie, les chimistes unitaires\" (1896). In his view there was no difference between spirit and matter except for the degree of frequency and other vibrational conditions.\n\nThe Mormon theologian Orson Pratt taught a form of hylozoism.\n\nAlice A. Bailey wrote a book called \"The Consciousness of the Atom\".\n\nInfluenced by Alice A. Bailey, Charles Webster Leadbeater, and their predecessor Madame Blavatsky, Henry T. Laurency produced voluminous writings describing a hylozoic philosophy.\n\nInfluenced by George Ivanovich Gurdjieff, the English philosopher and mathematician John Godolphin Bennett, in his four-volume work \"The Dramatic Universe\" and his book \"Energies\", developed a six-dimensional framework in which matter-energy takes on 12 levels of hylozoic quality.\n\nKen Wilber embraces hylozoism to explain subjective experience and provides terms describing the ladder of subjective experience experienced by entities from atoms up to Human beings in the \"upper left quadrant\" of his Integral philosophy chart.\n\nPhysicist Thomas Brophy, in The Mechanism Demands a Mysticism, embraces hylozoism as the basis of a framework for re-integrating modern physical science with perennial spiritual philosophy. Brophy coins two additional words to stand with hylozoism as the three possible ontological stances consistent with modern physics. Thus: hylostatism (universe is deterministic, thus “static” in a four-dimensional sense); hylostochastism (universe contains a fundamentally random or stochastic component); hylozoism (universe contains a fundamentally alive aspect).\n\nArchitect Christopher Alexander has put forth a theory of the living universe, where life is viewed as a pervasive patterning that extends to what is normally considered non-living things, notably buildings. He wrote a four-volume work called \"The Nature of Order\" which explicates this theory in detail.\n\nPhilosopher and ecologist David Abram articulates and elaborates a form of hylozoism grounded in the phenomenology of sensory experience. In his books \"Becoming Animal\" and \"The Spell of the Sensuous,\" Abram suggests that matter is never entirely passive in our direct experience, holding rather that material things actively \"solicit our attention\" or \"call our focus,\" coaxing the perceiving body into an ongoing participation with those things. In the absence of intervening technologies, sensory experience is inherently animistic, disclosing a material field that is animate and self-organizing from the get-go. Drawing upon contemporary cognitive and natural science as well as the perspectival worldviews of diverse indigenous, oral cultures, Abram proposes a richly pluralist and story-based cosmology, in which matter is alive through and through. Such an ontology is in close accord, he suggests, with our spontaneous perceptual experience; it calls us back to our senses and to the primacy of the sensuous terrain, enjoining a more respectful and ethical relation to the more-than-human community of animals, plants, soils, mountains, waters and weather-patterns that materially sustains us.\n\nBruno Latour's actor-network theory, in the sociology of science, treats non-living things as active agents and thus bears some metaphorical resemblance to hylozoism.\n\nArt\nLiterature\nMMORPGs \nMusic\n"}
{"id": "36387275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36387275", "title": "Jaideva Singh", "text": "Jaideva Singh\n\nJaideva Singh (19 September 1893 in Shoratgarh, Uttar Pradesh – 27 May 1986 in Banaras) was an Indian musicologist and philosopher. He played a key role in the development of All India Radio where he was chief producer. He was influenced by the Indian musicologist Vishnu Narayan Bhatkhande.\n\nSingh was a renowned scholar in the Kashmir Saivism school of Indian philosophy, a subject he studied for many years with Swami Lakshman Joo in Kashmir. He prepared and published first-ever English and Hindi translations of a number of Shaivite scriptures. Singh was appointed as the Chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Sangeet Natak Akademi in 1973. He was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 1974 for his contribution to music.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43390744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43390744", "title": "Jane Bennett (political theorist)", "text": "Jane Bennett (political theorist)\n\nJane Bennett (born July 31, 1957) is an American political theorist and philosopher. She is professor at the Department of Political Science, Johns Hopkins University School of Arts and Sciences. She is also the editor of the academic journal \"Political Theory\".\n\nJane Bennett originally trained in environmental studies and political science. She then went on to Cornell University to study environmental science. After Cornell she studied political theory and gained her degree (\"magna cum laude\") in 1979 from Siena College, Loudonville, New York. Whilst at Siena College Bennett met Kathy Ferguson. Bennett then went on to the University of Massachusetts and qualified as a doctor of political science in 1986.\n\nBennett's work considers ontological ideas about the relationship between humans and 'things', what she calls \"vital materialism\",\n\"What counts as the material of vital materialism? Is it only human labour and the socio-economic entities made by men using raw materials? Or is materiality more potent than that? How can political theory do a better job of recognizing the active participation of nonhuman forces in every event and every stabilization? Is there a form of theory that can acknowledge a certain ‘thing-power’, that is, the irreducibility of objects to the human meanings or agendas they also embody?\"\n\nIn her book, \"Vibrant Matter: A Political Ecology of Things\", Bennett's argument is that, \"Edibles, commodities, storms, and metals act as quasi agents, with their own trajectories, potentialities and tendencies.\"\n\nPublic lectures she has given include \"Impersonal Sympathy\", a talk theorizing 'sympathy' in which she considered the alchemist-physician Paracelsus (1493-1541) and Walt Whitman's collection of poetry, \"Leaves of Grass\". In 2015 Bennett delivered the annual Neal A. Maxwell Lecture in Political Theory and Contemporary Politics at the University of Utah entitled “Walt Whitman and the Soft Voice of Sympathy.”\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5142812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5142812", "title": "Jewish meditation", "text": "Jewish meditation\n\nJewish meditation can refer to several traditional practices, ranging from visualization and intuitive methods, forms of emotional insight in communitive prayer, esoteric combinations of Divine names, to intellectual analysis of philosophical, ethical or mystical concepts. It often accompanies unstructured, personal Jewish prayer that can allow isolated contemplation, and underlies the instituted Jewish services. Its elevated psychological insights can give birth to dveikus (cleaving to God), particularly in Jewish mysticism. The accurate traditional Hebrew term for meditation is Hitbodedut/Hisbodedus (literally self \"seclusion\"), while the more limited term Hitbonenut/Hisbonenus (\"contemplation\") describes the conceptually directed intellectual method of meditation.\n\nThrough the centuries, some of the common forms include the practices in philosophy and ethics of Abraham ben Maimonides; in Kabbalah of Abraham Abulafia, Isaac the Blind, Azriel of Gerona, Moses Cordovero, Yosef Karo and Isaac Luria; in Hasidism of the Baal Shem Tov, Schneur Zalman of Liadi and Nachman of Breslov; and in the Musar movement of Israel Salanter and Simcha Zissel Ziv.\n\nIn its esoteric forms, \"Meditative Kabbalah\" is one of the three branches of Kabbalah, alongside \"Theosophical\" Kabbalah and the separate Practical Kabbalah. It is a common misconception to include Meditative Kabbalah in Practical Kabbalah, which seeks to alter physicality, while Meditative Kabbalah seeks insight into spirituality, together with the intellectual theosophy comprising \"Kabbalah Iyunit\" (Contemplative Kabbalah).\n\nThere is evidence that Judaism has had meditative practices since the time of the patriarchs. For instance, in the book of Genesis, the patriarch Isaac is described as going \"lasuach\" in the field - a term understood by many commentators as some type of meditative practice (Genesis 24:63).\n\nSimilarly, there are indications throughout the Tanakh (the Hebrew Bible) that Judaism always contained a central meditative tradition.\n\nHistorians trace the earliest surviving Jewish esoteric texts to Tannaic times. This \"Merkavah-Heichalot\" mysticism, referred to in Talmudic accounts, sought elevations of the soul using meditative methods, built around the Biblical Vision of Ezekiel and the Creation in Genesis. The distinctive conceptual features of later Kabbalah first emerged from the 11th century, though traditional Judaism predates the 13th century Zohar back to the Tannaim, and the preceding end of Biblical prophecy.\n\nThe branch of Kabbalah called Meditative/Ecstatic Kabbalah is concerned with uniting the individual with God through meditation on Names of God in Judaism, combinations of Hebrew letters, and \"Kavanot\" (mystical \"intentions\") in Jewish prayer and performance of mitzvot. Kabbalists reinterpreted the standard Jewish liturgy by reading it as esoteric mystical meditations and the ascent of the soul for elite practitioners. Through this, the border between meditative prayer and theurgic practice would be blurred if prayer becomes viewed as a magical process rather than supplication. However, Kabbalists censored Practical Kabbalah for only the most holy, and were careful to interpret mystical prayer in non-magical ways; the Kabbalist is able to alter supernal judgements by suplicating a higher Divine Will. A term for this, Unifications – Yichudim unites Meditative Kabbalah with Theosophical Kabbalah doctrine of harmony in the Sephirot.\n\nAbraham Abulafia (1240–1291), leading medieval figure in the history of \"Meditative Kabbalah\", the founder of the school of \"Prophetic/Ecstatic Kabbalah\", wrote meditation manuals using meditation on Hebrew letters and words to achieve ecstatic states. His teachings embody the non-Zoharic stream in Spanish Kabbalism, which he viewed as alternative and superior to the theosophical Kabbalah which he criticised. Abulafia's work is surrounded in controversy because of the edict against him by the Rashba (R. Shlomo Ben Aderet), a contemporary leading scholar. However, according to Aryeh Kaplan, the Abulafian system of meditations forms an important part of the work of Rabbi Hayim Vital, and in turn his master the Ari, Rabbi Isaac Luria. Kaplan's pioneering translations and scholarship on Meditative Kabbalah trace Abulafia's publications to the extant concealed transmission of the esoteric meditative methods of the Hebrew prophets. While Abulafia remained a marginal figure in the direct development of Theosophical Kabbalah, recent academic scholarship on Abulafia by Moshe Idel reveals his wider influence across the later development of Jewish mysticism. In the 16th century Judah Albotini continued Abulafian methods in Jerusalem.\n\nIsaac of Acco (13th-14th century) and Joseph Tzayach (1505-1573), the latter influenced by Abulafia, taught their own systems of meditation. Tzayach was probably the last Kabbalist to advocate use of the prophetic position, where one places his head between his knees. This position was used by Elijah on Mount Carmel, and in early Merkabah mysticism. Speaking of individuals who meditate (hitboded), he says:\nThey bend themselves like reeds, placing their heads between their knees until all their faculties are nullified. As a result of this lack of sensation, they see the Supernal Light, with true vision and not with allegory.\n\nRabbi Moses ben Jacob Cordovero (1522-1570), central historical Kabbalist in Safed, taught that when meditating, one does not focus on the Sefirot (Divine emanations) per se, but rather on the light from the Infinite (\"Atzmut\"-essence of God) contained within the emanations. Keeping in mind that all reaches up to the Infinite, his prayer is \"to Him, not to His attributes.\" Proper meditation focuses upon how the Godhead acts through specific sefirot. In meditation on the essential Hebrew name of God, represented by the four letter Tetragrammaton, this corresponds to meditating on the Hebrew vowels which are seen as reflecting the light from the Infinite-Atzmut.\n\nThe essential name of God in the Hebrew Bible, the four letter Tetragrammaton (Yud- Hei- Vav-Hei), corresponds in Kabbalistic thought to the 10 sefirot. Kabbalists interpret the shapes and spiritual forces of each of these 4 letters, as reflecting each sefirah (The Yud-male point represents the infinite dimensionless flash of Wisdom, and the transcendent thorn atop it, the supra-conscious soul of Crown. The first Hei-female vessel represents the expansion of the insight of Wisdom in the breadth and depth of Understanding. The Vav-male point drawn downward in a line represents the birth of the emotional sefirot, Kindness to Foundation from their pregnant state in Understanding. The second Hei-female vessel represents the revelation of the previous sefirot in the action of Kingship). Therefore, the Tetragrammaton has the Infinite Light clothed within it as the sefirot. This is indicated by the change in the vowel-points (nekudot) found underneath each of the four letters of the Name in each sefira. \" Each sefira is distinguished by the manner in which the Infinite Light is clothed within it\". In Jewish tradition, the vowel points and pronunciation of the Tetragrammaton are uncertain, and in reverence to the holiness of the name, this name for God is never read. In Kabbalah many spiritual permutations of different vowel notations are recorded for the Tetragrammaton, corresponding to different spiritual meanings and emanations.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Kubutz and Shuruk are pronounced indistinguishably in modern Hebrew and for this reason there is reason to be skeptical as far as the association of Kubutz with Hod rather than Yesod and vice versa.\n\nIsaac Luria (1534–1572), the father of modern Kabbalah, systemised Lurianic Kabbalistic theory as a dynamic mythological scheme. While the Zohar is outwardly solely a theosophical work, for which reason medieval Meditative Kabbalists followed alternative traditions, Luria's systemisation of doctrine enabled him to draw new detailed meditative practices, called Yichudim, from the Zohar, based on the dynamic interaction of the Lurianic partzufim. This meditative method, as with Luria's theosophical exegesis, dominated later Kabbalistic activity. Luria prescribed Yichudim as Kavanot for the prayer liturgy, later practiced communally by Shalom Sharabi and the Beit El circle, for Jewish observances, and for secluded attainment of Ruach Hakodesh. One favoured activity of the Safed mystics was meditation while prostrated on the graves of saints, in order to commune with their souls.\n\nRabbi Hayim Vital (c. 1543-1620), major disciple of R. Isaac Luria, and responsible for publication of most of his works. In his he describes the theosophical and meditative teachings of Luria. However, his own writings cover wider meditative methods, drawn from earlier sources. His \"Shaarei Kedusha\" (Gates of Holiness) was the only guidebook to Meditative Kabbalah traditionally printed, though its most esoteric fourth part remained unpublished until recently. In the following account Vital presents the method of R. Yosef Karo in receiving his Heavenly Magid teacher, which he regarded as the soul of the Mishna (recorded by Karo in Magid Mesharim):\n\nMeditate alone in a house, wrapped in a prayer shawl. Sit and shut your eyes, and transcend the physical as if your soul has left your body and is ascending to heaven. After this divestment/ascension, recite one Mishna, any Mishna you wish, many times consecutively, as quickly as you can, with clear pronunciation, without skipping one word. Intend to bind your soul with the soul of the sage who taught this Mishna.\n\" Your soul will become a chariot. ..\"\n\nDo this by intending that your mouth is a mere vessel/conduit to bring forth the letters of the words of this Mishna, and that the voice that emerges through the vessel of your mouth is [filled with] the sparks of your inner soul which are emerging and reciting this Mishna. In this way, your soul will become a chariot within which the soul of the sage who is the master of that Mishna can manifest. His soul will then clothe itself within your soul.\n\nAt a certain point in the process of reciting the words of the Mishna, you may feel overcome by exhaustion. If you are worthy, the soul of this sage may then come to reside in your mouth. This will happen in the midst of your reciting the Mishna. As you recite, he will begin to speak with your mouth and wish you Shalom. He will then answer every question that comes into your thoughts to ask him. He will do this with and through your mouth. Your ears will hear his words, for you will not be speaking from yourself. Rather, he will be speaking through you. This is the mystery of the verse, \"The spirit of God spoke to me, and His word was on my lips\". (Samuel II 23:2)\n\nThe Baal Shem Tov, founder of Hasidic Judaism, took the Talmudic phrase that \"God desires the heart\" and made it central to his love of the sincerity of the common folk. Advocating joy in the omnipresent Divine immanence, he sought to revive the disenfranchised populance in their Jewish life. The 17th century destructions of Jewish communities, and wide loss of ability to access learning among the simple unlettered shtetl Jews, left the people at a spiritual low. Elite scholars felt distant from the masses, as traditional Judaism saw Talmudic learning as the main spiritual activity, while preachers could offer little popular solace with ethical admonishment. The Baal Shem Tov began a new articulation of Jewish mysticism, by relating its structures to direct psychological experience. His mystical explanations, parables and stories to the unlearned encouraged their emotional deveikus (fervour), especially through attachment to the Hasidic figure of the Tzaddik, while his close circle understood the deep spiritual philosophy of the new ideas. In the presence of the Tzaddik, the followers could gain inspiration and attachment to God. The Baal Shem Tov and the Hasidic Masters left aside the previous Kabbalistic meditative focus on Divine Names and their visualisation, in favour of a more personal, inner mysticism, expressed innately in mystical joy, devotional prayer and melody, or studied conceptually in the systemised classic works of Hasidic philosophy.\n\nRabbi Dov Ber of Lubavitch, the \"Mitler Rebbe,\" the second leader of the Chabad Dynasty wrote several works explaining the Chabad approach. In his works, he explains that the Hebrew word for meditation is \"hisbonenus\" (alternatively transliterated as \"hitbonenut\"). The word \"hisbonenut\" derives from the Hebrew word \"Binah\" (lit. understanding) and refers to the process of understanding through analytical study. While the word \"hisbonenus\" can be applied to analytical study of any topic, it is generally used to refer to study of the Torah, and particularly in this context, the explanations of Kabbalah in Chabad Hasidic philosophy, in order to achieve a greater understanding and appreciation of God.\n\nIn the Chabad presentation, every intellectual process must incorporate three faculties: Chochma, Binah, and Daat. \"Chochma\" (lit. wisdom) is the mind's ability to come up with a new insight into a concept that one did not know before. \"Binah\" (lit. understanding) is the mind's ability to take a new insight (from \"Chochma\"), analyze all of its implications and simplify the concept so it is understood well. \"Daat\" (lit. knowledge), the third stage, is the mind's ability to focus and hold its attention on the \"Chochma\" and the \"Binah\".\n\nThe term \"hisbonenus\" represents an important point of the Chabad method: Chabad Hasidic philosophy rejects the notion that any new insight can come from mere concentration. Chabad philosophy explains that while \"Daat\" is a necessary component of cognition, it is like an empty vessel without the learning and analysis and study that comes through the faculty of Binah. Just as a scientist's new insight or discovery (\"Chochma\") always results from prior in-depth study and analysis of his topic (\"Binah\"), likewise, to gain any insight in Godliness can only come through in-depth study of the explanations of Kabbalah and Chassidic philosophy.\n\nChassidic masters say that enlightenment is commensurate with one's \"understanding\" of the Torah and specifically the explanations of Kabbalah and Hasidic philosophy.\nThey warn that prolonged concentration devoid of intellectual content can lead to sensory deprivation, hallucinations, and even insanity which all can be tragically mistaken for \"spiritual enlightenment\".\n\nHowever, a contemporary translation of the word \"hisbonenus\" into popular English would not be \"meditation\". \"Meditation\" refers to the mind's ability to concentrate (\"Daat\"), which in Hebrew is called \"Haamokat HaDaat\". \"Hisbonenut\", which, as explained above, refers to the process of analysis (\"Binah\") is more properly translated as \"in-depth analytical study\". (Ibid.)\n\nChabad accepts and endorses the writings of Kabbalists such as Moshe Cordevero and Haim Vital and their works are quoted at length in the Hasidic texts. However, the Hasidic masters say that their methods are easily misunderstood without a proper foundation in Hasidic philosophy.\n\nThe Mitler Rebbe emphasizes that hallucinations that come from a mind devoid of intellectual content are the product of the brain's \"Koach HaDimyon\" (lit. power of imagination), which is the brain’s lowest faculty. Even a child is capable of higher forms of thought than the \"Koach HaDimyon\". So such hallucinations should never be confused with the flash intuitive insight known as \"Chochma\" which can only be achieved through in-depth study of logical explanations of Kabbalah and Hasidic philosophy.\n\nHisbodedus (alternatively transliterated as \"hitbodedut\", from the root \"boded\" meaning \"self-seclusion\") refers to an unstructured, spontaneous and individualized form of prayer and meditation taught by Rebbe Nachman of Breslov. The goal of hitbodedut is to establish a close, personal relationship with God and a clearer understanding of one's personal motives and goals. However, in Likutey Moharan I, Lesson 52, Rebbe Nachman describes the ultimate goal of hisbodedus as the transformative realization of God as the \"Imperative Existent,\" or Essence of Reality. See Hisbodedus for the words of Rabbi Nachman on this method.\n\nThe Musar (Ethics) Movement, founded by Rabbi Israel Salanter in the middle of the 19th-century, encouraged meditative practices of introspection and visualization that could help to improve moral character. Its truthful psychological self-evaluation of one's spiritual worship, institutionalised the preceding classic ethical tradition within Rabbinic literature as a spiritual movement within the Lithuanian Yeshiva academies. Many of these techniques were described in the writings of Salanter's closest disciple, Rabbi Simcha Zissel Ziv. Two paths within Musar developed in the Slabodka and Novardok schools. It is said that Rabbi Salanter would often stay up all night pacing in his room, focusing on a verse or quotation, trying to extract all the knowledge he could from the words.\n\nAccording to Geoffrey Claussen of Elon University, some forms of Musar meditation are visualization techniques which \"seek to make impressions upon one’s character—often a matter of taking insights of which we are conscious and bringing them into our unconscious.\" Other forms of Musar meditation are introspective, \"considering one’s character and exploring its tendencies—often a matter of taking what is unconscious and bringing it to consciousness.\" A number of contemporary rabbis have advocated such practices, including \"taking time each day to sit in silence and simply noticing the way that one’s mind wanders.\"\n\nPractices:\nConcepts:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16597531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16597531", "title": "Kaisando", "text": "Kaisando\n\nA , also termed the Founder's Hall, is a temple structure in a Japanese Buddhist monastery complex or other temple where an image (or images) of the founding abbot and other significant teachers and Buddha ancestors are kept, along with a memorial slab (J. ihai). Sometimes also referred to as the Patriarch Hall (J. \"soshido\") or Reflection Hall (J. \"Eishitsu\"), this building holds memorial services yearly on the anniversary of the death of the founding abbot.\n\nThe largest Founder's Hall in Japan is the Goei-dō (御影堂) in front of the Higashi Hongwanji (Hongan-ji) Temple in Kyoto, Japan, one of two head temples of the Jōdo Shinshū sect of Buddhism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45592001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45592001", "title": "Kara Davud", "text": "Kara Davud\n\nMuhammad Kara Davud bin Kamal al-Izmiti (\"b.\" ? - \"d.\" 948 AH/1541 CE), was an Ottoman scholar of Islam known for his work on the exegesis of the Dala'il al-Khayrat: \"Muwafik-ul Khayrat Linayl-el Barakat Fi Khidmat-as Saadat\" (widely known as \"Kara Davud\"). He was born in Izmit and buried in Bursa.\n\n"}
{"id": "34422236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34422236", "title": "Konrad Ott", "text": "Konrad Ott\n\nKonrad Ott (born May 20, 1959) is a German philosopher with a special interest in discourse ethics and environmental ethics. Ott is currently Professor for Philosophy and Ethics of the Environment at Kiel University. From 2000 to 2008 he was a member of the . From 1997 to 2012 Ott was professor for environmental ethics at the University of Greifswald. Ott is also known as a critic of mass migration to Europe. Regarding migration from Africa \"via\" the Mediterranean, Ott postulated in 2018 that \"this route must be dried out\"; the merit of Italy's Home Office Secretary Matteo Salvini should be acknowledged \"at least [...] to have made this route less attractive\".\n\nIn German:\n\nIn English:\n\n"}
{"id": "8977613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8977613", "title": "Mad Pride", "text": "Mad Pride\n\nMad Pride is a mass movement of the users of mental health services, former users, and the aligned, and that individuals with mental illness should be proud of their 'mad' identity. It was formed in 1993 in response to local community prejudices towards people with a psychiatric history living in boarding homes in the Parkdale area of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, and an event has been held every year since then in the city except for 1996. A similar movement began around the same time in the United Kingdom. By the late 1990s similar events were being organized under the Mad Pride name around the globe, including Australia, Ireland, Portugal, Brazil, Madagascar, South Africa and the United States. Events draw thousands of participants, according to MindFreedom International, a United States mental health advocacy organization that promotes and tracks events spawned by the movement.\n\nMad Pride activists seek to reclaim terms such as \"mad\", \"nutter\", and \"psycho\" from misuse, such as in tabloid newspapers and in order to switch it from a negative view into a positive view. Through a series of mass media campaigns, Mad Pride activists seek to re-educate the general public on such subjects as the causes of mental disabilities, the experiences of those using the mental health system, and the global suicide pandemic. One of Mad Pride's founding activists in the UK was Pete Shaughnessy, who later died by suicide. Mark Roberts, Robert Dellar (who died in 2016) and Simon Barnet were among the other founders of the movement. \"Mad Pride: A celebration of mad culture\" records the early Mad Pride movement. \"On Our Own: Patient-Controlled Alternatives to the Mental Health System\", published in 1978 by Judi Chamberlin, is a foundational text in the Mad Pride movement, although it was published before the movement was launched.\n\nThe first known event, specifically organized as a Pride event by people who identified as survivors, consumers or ex-patients of psychiatric practices, was held on 18 September 1993, when it was called \"Psychiatric Survivor Pride Day\".\n\nMad Studies grew out of Mad Pride and survivor thinking, and focuses on developing scholarly thinking around \"mental health\" by academics who self-identify as mad. As noted in \"Mad matters: a critical reader in Canadian mad studies\" (LeFrançois, Menzies and Reaume, 2013), \"Mad Studies can be defined in general terms as a project of inquiry, knowledge production, and political action devoted to the critique and transcendence of psy-centred ways of thinking, behaving, relating, and being\". As a book, Mad Matters' offers a critical discussion of mental health and madness in ways that demonstrate the struggles, oppression, resistance, agency and perspectives of Mad people to challenge dominant understandings of ‘mental illness’\". \"\"Mad Studies\" is a growing, evolving, multi-voiced and interdisciplinary field of activism, theory, praxis and scholarship.\"\n\nMad Pride was launched alongside a book of the same name, \"Mad Pride: A celebration of mad culture\", published in 2000. On May 11, 2008, Gabrielle Glaser documented Mad Pride in \"The New York Times\". Glaser stated, \"Just as gay-rights activists reclaimed the word queer as a badge of honor rather than a slur, these advocates proudly call themselves mad; they say their conditions do not preclude them from productive lives.\"\n\nElizabeth Packard (1816-1897) was deemed insane by her husband as she did not agree with his conservative political views. In Illinois at the time, involuntary admission to an asylum did not require a public hearing so long as it was a husband admitting his wife. Due to this, Packard was institutionalized though she saw herself to be sane. In Packard’s lifetime to be labeled as ‘mad’ was a form of social disapproval. However, she felt solidarity among Mad people due to her experience in the institution. Though she did not personally identify as Mad and had to identify as ‘sane’ in order to be an activist, it is here that we see early forms of organizing from ex-patients.\n\nThe Mad Pride movement has spawned recurring cultural events in Toronto, London, Paris and other cities around the world. These events often include music, poetry readings, film screenings, and street theatre, such as \"bed push\" protests, which aim to raise awareness about the poor levels of choice of treatments and the widespread use of force in psychiatric hospitals. Past events have included British journalist Jonathan Freedland, and popular novelist Clare Allan. Mad Pride cultural events take a variety of forms, such as the South London collective Creative Routes, the Chipmunka Publishing enterprise, and the many works of Dolly Sen.\n\nA Bed Push is a method of activism employed by multiple mental health agencies and advocates as a method of raising awareness about psychiatric care. Activists wheel a gurney through public spaces to provoke discussion about mental health care. Mind Freedom has a recipe for a successful Bed Push on their website, urging participants to remain peaceful but also be seen by blowing horns, slightly disrupting traffic and playing music. Often patients in psychiatric care feel silenced and powerless, showing resilience in the face of that and securing visibility is a method of regaining dignity.\n\nMad Pride Week in Toronto is proclaimed as such by the city itself. The festivities surrounding this week are highlighted by the Mad Pride Bed Push, typically on the 14th of July. The event takes place Toronto’s Queen Street West “to raise public awareness about the use of force and lack of choice for people ensnared in the Ontario mental health system” This week is officially run by Toronto Mad Pride which partners a number of mental health agencies in the city. In recent years, some advocates have pushed for Parkdale, Toronto to be renamed MAD! Village, to reclaim pride in its surrounding communities' long history of struggle with mental health and addictions \n\nA series of bed push events take place around London each year.\n\nThe Psychiatric Patient Built Wall Tours take place in Toronto, ON at the CAMH facility on Queen St West. The tours show the patient built walls from the 19th century that are located at present day CAMH. The purpose of the tours is to give a history on the lives of the patients who built the walls, and bring attention to the harsh realities of psychiatry.\n\nGeoffrey Reaume and Heinz Klein first came up with the idea of walking tours as part of a Mad Pride event in 2000. The first wall tour occurred on what is now known as Mad Pride Day, on July 14, 2000, with an attendance of about fifty people. Reaume solely leads the tours, and they have grown from annual events for Mad Pride, to occurring several times throughout the year in all non-winter months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28700334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28700334", "title": "Micere Githae Mugo", "text": "Micere Githae Mugo\n\nMicere Githae Mugo (born Madeleine Micere Githae in 1942) is a playwright, author, activist, instructor and poet from Kenya. She is a literary critic and professor of literature in the Department of African American Studies at Syracuse University. She was forced into exile in 1982 from Kenya during the Daniel Arap Moi dictatorship for activism and moved to teach in Zimbabwe, and later the United States. Mwalimu Mugo teaches Orature, Literature, and Creative Writing. Her publications include six books, a play co-authored with Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o and three monographs. She has also edited journals and the Zimbabwean school curriculum. The \"East African Standard\" listed her among the 100 most influential people in Kenya in 2002.\n\nMugo was born in 1942, in Baricho, Kirinyaga District, Kenya. The daughter of two progressive (liberal) teachers who were politically active in Kenya's fight for independence, she received a solid primary and secondary education in Kenya, attending Alliance Girls High School. She became one of the first black students to be allowed to enroll in what had previously been a segregated academy. She later attended Makerere University (where she gained her B.A. in 1966), the University of New Brunswick (gaining her M.A. in 1973) and University of Toronto (where she gained her PhD in 1978). She took up a teaching position at the University of Nairobi in 1973, and in 1978 or 1980 became Dean of the Faculty of Arts, making her the first female faculty dean in Kenya. She taught at the University of Nairobi until 1982, and has also taught at the University of Zimbabwe.\n\nMugo was a political activist who fought against human rights abuses in Kenya. Her political activism led to her being harassed by the police and arrested. Mugo and her family (including two young daughters) were forced to depart Kenya in 1982 after the attempted coup of the Daniel Arap Moi government after which she became a target of official government harassment. She was stripped of her Kenyan citizenship but was given Zimbabwean citizenship. She has worked, written, and taught from abroad since she left Kenya. Since 1984 she has been a citizen of Zimbabwe.\n\n\"I’m a child of the universe, I have lived in almost all continents.\" — Micere Githae Mugo\n\nMugo is the founder and President of the Pan African Community of Central New York where she initiated volunteer programs in two prisons. She has been an official speaker for Amnesty International and a consultant for the \"Africa on the Horizon\" series by Blackside. Currently she is a consultant for many foundations, and on the board of many journals. She also served as chairperson of the board of directors of SARIPS, the Southern Africa Regional Institute for Policy Studies in Harare. She is currently a lecturer in Pan-African Studies at Syracuse University, where she continues her activism and writing:\n\n\"Writing can be a lifeline, especially when your existence has been denied, especially when you have been left on the margins, especially when your life and process of growth have been subjected to attempts at strangulation.\"\n― Micere Githae Mugo\n\nMugo is a distinguished poet, and the author or editor of 15 books. Her work is generally from a traditional African, Pan-African and feminist perspective, and draws heavily upon indigenous African cultural traditions. She has also collaborated with the Zimbabwean writer Shimmer Chinodya in editing plays and stories for adolescents in Shona.\n\nPlays\n\nPoetry\n\nLiterary criticism\n\nAutobiography\n\n\n\nShe has two well-known siblings in Kenya: former Chief Nursing Officer Eunice Muringo Kiereini and the politician Robinson Njeru Githae. Their father was Solomon Githendui Githae (1904–2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "57818292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57818292", "title": "Monique Deveaux", "text": "Monique Deveaux\n\nMonique Deveaux is a Canadian philosopher and Professor and Canada Research Chair in Ethics and Global Social Change at the University of Guelph. She is known for her research on poverty, cultural pluralism and global justice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "412702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412702", "title": "Monotypic taxon", "text": "Monotypic taxon\n\nIn biology, a monotypic taxon is a taxonomic group (taxon) that contains only one immediately subordinate taxon.\n\nA monotypic species is one that does not include subspecies or smaller, infraspecific taxa. In the case of genera, the term \"unispecific\" or \"monospecific\" is sometimes preferred.\n\nIn botanical nomenclature, a monotypic genus is a genus in the special case where a genus and a single species are simultaneously described.\n\nIn contrast an oligotypic taxon contains more than one but only a very few subordinate taxa.\n\nJust as the term \"monotypic\" is used to describe a taxon including only one subdivision, one can also refer to the contained taxon as monotypic within the higher-level taxon, e.g. a genus monotypic within a family. Some examples of monotypic groups are:\n\n"}
{"id": "33642424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33642424", "title": "Nasir al-Din al-Tusi", "text": "Nasir al-Din al-Tusi\n\nMuhammad ibn Muhammad ibn al-Hasan al-Tūsī (‎ 18 February 1201 – 26 June 1274), better known as Nasir al-Din Tusi (; or simply Tusi in the West), was a Persian polymath, architect, philosopher, physician, scientist, and theologian.\nHe is often considered the creator of trigonometry as a mathematical discipline in its own right.\nHe was a Twelver Muslim. The Muslim scholar Ibn Khaldun (1332–1406) considered Tusi to be the greatest of the later Persian scholars.\n\nNasir al-Din Tusi was born in the city of Tus in medieval Khorasan (northeastern Iran) in the year 1201 and began his studies at an early age. In Hamadan and Tus he studied the Quran, hadith, Ja'fari jurisprudence, logic, philosophy, mathematics, medicine and astronomy.\n\nHe was apparently born into a Shī‘ah family and lost his father at a young age. Fulfilling the wish of his father, the young Muhammad took learning and scholarship very seriously and traveled far and wide to attend the lectures of renowned scholars and acquire the knowledge, an exercise highly encouraged in his Islamic faith. At a young age, he moved to Nishapur to study philosophy under Farid al-Din Damad and mathematics under Muhammad Hasib. He met also Attar of Nishapur, the legendary Sufi master who was later killed by the Mongols, and he attended the lectures of Qutb al-Din al-Misri.\n\nIn Mosul he studied mathematics and astronomy with Kamal al-Din Yunus (d. AH 639 / AD 1242), a pupil of Sharaf al-Dīn al-Ṭūsī. Later on he corresponded with Sadr al-Din al-Qunawi, the son-in-law of Ibn Arabi, and it seems that mysticism, as propagated by Sufi masters of his time, was not appealing to his mind and once the occasion was suitable, he composed his own manual of philosophical Sufism in the form of a small booklet entitled \"Awsaf al-Ashraf\" \"The Attributes of the Illustrious\".\n\nAs the armies of Genghis Khan swept his homeland, he was employed by the Nizari Ismaili state and made his most important contributions in science during this time when he was moving from one stronghold to another. He was captured after the invasion of Alamut Castle by the Mongol forces.\n\nTusi has about 150 works, of which 25 are in Persian and the remaining are in Arabic, and there is one treatise in Persian, Arabic and Turkish.\nHere are some of his major works:\n\nDuring his stay in Nishapur, Tusi established a reputation as an exceptional scholar. Tusi’s prose writing, which numbers over 150 works, represent one of the largest collections by a single Islamic author. Writing in both Arabic and Persian, Nasir al-Din Tusi dealt with both religious (\"Islamic\") topics and non-religious or secular subjects (\"the ancient sciences\"). His works include the definitive Arabic versions of the works of Euclid, Archimedes, Ptolemy, Autolycus, and Theodosius of Bithynia.\n\nTusi convinced Hulegu Khan to construct an observatory for establishing accurate astronomical tables for better astrological predictions. Beginning in 1259, the Rasad Khaneh observatory was constructed in Azarbaijan, south of the river Aras, and to the west of Maragheh, the capital of the Ilkhanate Empire.\n\nBased on the observations in this for the time being most advanced observatory, Tusi made very accurate tables of planetary movements as depicted in his book \"Zij-i ilkhani\" (\"Ilkhanic Tables\"). This book contains astronomical tables for calculating the positions of the planets and the names of the stars. His model for the planetary system is believed to be the most advanced of his time, and was used extensively until the development of the heliocentric model in the time of Nicolaus Copernicus. Between Ptolemy and Copernicus, he is considered by many to be one of the most eminent astronomers of his time. His famous student \"Shams ad-Din Al-Bukhari\" was the teacher of Byzantine scholar \"Gregory Chioniadis,\" who had in turn trained astronomer \"Manuel Bryennios\" about 1300 in Constantinople.\n\nFor his planetary models, he invented a geometrical technique called a Tusi-couple, which generates linear motion from the sum of two circular motions. He used this technique to replace Ptolemy's problematic equant for many planets, but was unable to find a solution to Mercury, which was solved later by Ibn al-Shatir as well as Ali Qushji. The Tusi couple was later employed in Ibn al-Shatir's geocentric model and Nicolaus Copernicus' heliocentric Copernican model. He also calculated the value for the annual precession of the equinoxes and contributed to the construction and usage of some astronomical instruments including the astrolabe.\n\nṬūsī criticized Ptolemy's use of observational evidence to show that the Earth was at rest, noting that such proofs were not decisive. Although it doesn't mean that he was a supporter of mobility of the earth, as he and his 16th-century commentator al-Bīrjandī, maintained that the earth's immobility could be demonstrated, only by physical principles found in natural philosophy. Tusi's criticisms of Ptolemy were similar to the arguments later used by Copernicus in 1543 to defend the Earth's rotation.\n\nAbout the real essence of the Milky Way, Ṭūsī in his \"Tadhkira\" writes:\n\"The Milky Way, i.e. the galaxy, is made up of a very large number of small, tightly-clustered stars, which, on account of their concentration and smallness, seem to be cloudy patches. because of this, it was likened to milk in color.\"\n\nThree centuries later the proof of the Milky Way consisting of many stars came in 1610 when Galileo Galilei used a telescope to study the Milky Way and discovered that it is really composed of a huge number of faint stars.\n\nNasir al-Din Tusi was a supporter of Avicennian logic, and wrote the following commentary on Avicenna's theory of absolute propositions:\n\nAl-Tusi was the first to write a work on trigonometry independently of astronomy. Al-Tusi, in his \"Treatise on the Quadrilateral\", gave an extensive exposition of spherical trigonometry, distinct from astronomy. It was in the works of Al-Tusi that trigonometry achieved the status of an independent branch of pure mathematics distinct from astronomy, to which it had been linked for so long.\n\nHe was the first to list the six distinct cases of a right triangle in spherical trigonometry.\n\nThis followed earlier work by Greek mathematicians such as Menelaus of Alexandria, who wrote a book on spherical trigonometry called \"Sphaerica,\" and the earlier Muslim mathematicians Abū al-Wafā' al-Būzjānī and Al-Jayyani.\n\nIn his \"On the Sector Figure\", appears the famous law of sines for plane triangles.\n\nHe also stated the law of sines for spherical triangles, discovered the law of tangents for spherical triangles, and provided proofs for these laws.\n\nIn his \"Akhlaq-i Nasiri\", Tusi wrote about several biological topics. He defended a version of Aristotle's \"scala naturae\", in which he placed man above animals, plants, minerals, and the elements. He described \"grasses which grow without sowing or cultivation, by the mere mingling of elements,\" as closest to minerals. Among plants, he considered the date-palm as the most highly developed, since \"it only lacks one thing further to reach (the stage of) an animal: to tear itself loose from the soil and to move away in the quest for nourishment.\"\n\nThe lowest animals \"are adjacent to the region of plants: such are those animals which propagate like grass, being incapable of mating [...], e.g. earthworms, and certain insects\". The animals \"which reach the stage of perfection [...] are distinguished by fully developed weapons\", such as antlers, horns, teeth, and claws. Tusi described these organs as adaptations to each species's lifestyle, in a way anticipating natural theology. He continued:\n\nThus, in this paragraph, Tusi described different types of learning, recognising observational learning as the most advanced form, and correctly attributing it to certain animals.\n\nTusi seems to have perceived man as belonging to the animals, since he stated that \"the Animal Soul [comprising the faculties of perception and movement ...] is restricted to individuals of the animal species\", and that, by possessing a \"Human Soul, [...] mankind is distinguished and particularized among \"other\" animals.\"\n\nSome scholars have interpreted Tusi's biological writings as suggesting that he adhered to some kind of evolutionary theory. However, Tusi did not state explicitly that he believed species to change over time.\n\nTusi contributed to the field of chemistry, stating an early law of conservation of mass.\n\nA 60-km diameter lunar crater located on the southern hemisphere of the moon is named after him as \"Nasireddin\". A minor planet 10269 Tusi discovered by Soviet astronomer Nikolai Stepanovich Chernykh in 1979 is named after him. The K. N. Toosi University of Technology in Iran and Observatory of Shamakhy in the Republic of Azerbaijan are also named after him. In February 2013, Google celebrated his 812th birthday with a doodle, which was accessible in its websites with Arabic language calling him \"al-farsi\" (the Persian).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1134592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1134592", "title": "Ned Block", "text": "Ned Block\n\nNed Joel Block (born 1942) is an American philosopher working in philosophy of mind who has made important contributions to the understanding of consciousness and the philosophy of cognitive science. He has been professor of philosophy and psychology at New York University since 1996.\n\nBlock obtained his PhD from Harvard University in 1971 under the direction of Hilary Putnam. He joined the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) as an assistant professor of philosophy (1971–1977), and then served as associate professor of philosophy (1977–1983), professor of philosophy (1983–1996) and as chair of the philosophy section (1989–1995). He has, since 1996, been a professor in the departments of philosophy and psychology at New York University (NYU).\n\nBlock received the Jean Nicod Prize in 2013, and has given the William James Lectures at Harvard University in 2012 and the John Locke Lectures at Oxford University in 2013, among many others.\n\nBlock is Past President of the Society for Philosophy and Psychology and was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences in 2004.\n\nHe is married to the developmental psychologist Susan Carey.\n\nBlock is noted for presenting the Blockhead argument against the Turing Test as a test of intelligence in a paper titled \"Psychologism and Behaviorism\" (1981). He is also known for his criticism of functionalism, arguing that a system with the same functional states as a human is not necessarily conscious. In his more recent work on consciousness, he has made a distinction between phenomenal consciousness and access consciousness, where phenomenal consciousness consists of subjective experience and feelings and access consciousness consists of that information globally available in the cognitive system for the purposes of reasoning, speech and high-level action control. He has argued that access consciousness and phenomenal consciousness might not always coincide in human beings.\n\nBlock has been a judge at the Loebner Prize contest, a contest in the tradition of the Turing Test to determine whether a conversant is a computer or a human.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22739", "title": "Obfuscation (software)", "text": "Obfuscation (software)\n\nIn software development, obfuscation is the deliberate act of creating source or machine code that is difficult for humans to understand. Like obfuscation in natural language, it may use needlessly roundabout expressions to compose statements.\nProgrammers may deliberately obfuscate code to conceal its purpose (security through obscurity) or its logic or implicit values embedded in it, primarily, in order to prevent tampering, deter reverse engineering, or even as a puzzle or recreational challenge for someone reading the source code. This can be done manually or by using an automated tool, the latter being the preferred technique in industry.\n\nThe architecture and characteristics of some languages may make them easier to obfuscate than others. C, C++, and the Perl programming language are some examples of languages easy to obfuscate.\n\nWriting and reading obfuscated source code can be a brain teaser. A number of programming contests reward the most creatively obfuscated code, such as the International Obfuscated C Code Contest and the Obfuscated Perl Contest.\n\nTypes of obfuscations include simple keyword substitution, use or non-use of whitespace to create artistic effects, and self-generating or heavily compressed programs.\n\nAccording to Nick Montfort, techniques may include: \n\nShort obfuscated Perl programs may be used in signatures of Perl programmers. These are JAPHs (\"Just another Perl hacker\").\n\nThis is a winning entry from the International Obfuscated C Code Contest written by Ian Phillipps in 1988 and subsequently reverse engineered by Thomas Ball.\nIt is a C program that when compiled and run will generate the 12 verses of \"The 12 Days of Christmas\". It contains all the strings required for the poem in an encoded form within the code.\n\nA non-winning entry from the same year, this next example illustrates creative use of whitespace; it generates mazes of arbitrary length:\nANSI-compliant C compilers don't allow constant strings to be overwritten, which can be avoided by changing \"*M\" to \"M[3]\" and omitting \"M=\".\n\nThe following example by Óscar Toledo Gutiérrez, Best of Show entry in the 19th IOCCC, implements an 8080 emulator complete with terminal and disk controller, capable of booting CP/M-80 and running CP/M applications:\n\nAn example of a JAPH:\n\nThis slowly displays the text \"Just another Perl / Unix hacker\", multiple characters at a time, with delays. An explanation can be found here.\n\nSome Python examples can be found in the official Python programming FAQ and elsewhere.\n\nThere are several advantages of automated code obfuscation that have made it popular and widely useful across many platforms. On some platforms (such as Java., Android, and .NET) a decompiler can reverse-engineer source code from an executable or library. \nA main advantage of automated code obfuscation is that it helps protect the trade secrets (intellectual property) contained within software by making reverse-engineering a program difficult and economically unfeasible. Other advantages might include helping to protect licensing mechanisms and unauthorized access, and shrinking the size of the executable. Decompilation is sometimes called a man-at-the-end attack, based on the traditional cryptographic attack known as \"man-in-the-middle\".\n\nWhile obfuscation can make reading, writing, and reverse-engineering a program difficult and time-consuming, it will not necessarily make it impossible. Some anti-virus software, such as AVG AntiVirus, will also alert their users when they land on a site with code that is manually obfuscated, as one of the purposes of obfuscation can be to hide malicious code. However, some developers may employ code obfuscation for the purpose of reducing file size or increasing security. The average user may not expect their antivirus software to provide alerts about an otherwise harmless piece of code, especially from trusted corporations, so such a feature may actually deter users from using legitimate software.\n\nA variety of tools exist to perform or assist with code obfuscation.\nThese include experimental research tools created by academics, hobbyist tools,\ncommercial products written by professionals, and open-source software.\nThere also exist deobfuscation tools that attempt to perform the reverse\ntransformation.\n\nAlthough the majority of commercial obfuscation solutions work by transforming\neither program source\ncode, or platform-independent bytecode as used by\nJava and\n.NET, there are also some that work directly on compiled binaries.\n\nThere has been debate on whether it is illegal to skirt copyleft software licenses by releasing source code in obfuscated form, such as in cases in which the author is less willing to make the source code available. The issue is addressed in the GNU General Public License by defining source code as the \"preferred\" version of the source code be made available. The GNU website states \"Obfuscated 'source code' is not real source code and does not count as source code.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40722891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40722891", "title": "Operation Harness", "text": "Operation Harness\n\nOperation Harness was a series of secret biological warfare trials carried out by the government of the United Kingdom in the Caribbean in the 1940s. Animals were exposed to anthrax and brucella bacteria on dinghys offshore but the results were found meaningless.\n\nThe operation did not go well, for several reasons. The sea was rougher than expected, making it impossible for the dinghies to be picked up by craft converted for the operation. This meant the tests were carried out just off the shore of an island, endangering inhabitants. Protective suits were found to be so heavy that those using them had to undergo a lengthy acclimatisation process to avoid heat exhaustion.\n\nSampling equipment was accidentally activated by local radio signals and conditions at sea made it impossible to accurately measure the amount of bacteria in the atmosphere.\n\n500 of 600 sheep were found to be unsuitable and were shot. Guinea pigs were found to be \"disastrous\". 234 rhesus macaques had to be treated for pneumonia before being used.\n\nThe official report found that the techniques used were overcomplicated, and said that it was \"uncommonly lucky\" that only one of the staff was infected.\n"}
{"id": "8144928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8144928", "title": "Pavel Naumov", "text": "Pavel Naumov\n\nPavel Naumov () is a Russian-American logician who specializes in reasoning about multiagent systems. Naumov graduated from Moscow State University with a Diploma in Mathematics, where his advisor was Sergei N. Artemov. He received Ph.D. in Computer Science from Cornell University under Robert Lee Constable. Naumov is currently teaching at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "204510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204510", "title": "Philosophical skepticism", "text": "Philosophical skepticism\n\nPhilosophical skepticism (UK spelling: scepticism; from Greek σκέψις \"skepsis\", \"inquiry\") is a philosophical school of thought that questions the possibility of certainty in knowledge. Skeptic philosophers from different historical periods adopted different principles and arguments, but their ideology can be generalized as either (1) the denial of possibility of all knowledge or (2) the suspension of judgement due to the inadequacy of evidence.\n\nSkepticism is not a single position but covers a range of different positions. In the ancient world there were two main skeptical traditions. Academic skepticism took the dogmatic position that knowledge was not possible; Pyrrhonian skeptics refused to take a dogmatic position on any issue—including skepticism. Radical skepticism ends in the paradoxical claim that one cannot know anything—including that one cannot know about knowing anything.\n\nSkepticism can be classified according to its scope. Local skepticism involves being skeptical about particular areas of knowledge, e.g. moral skepticism, skepticism about the external world, or skepticism about other minds, whereas global skepticism is skeptical about the possibility of any knowledge at all.\n\nSkepticism can also be classified according to its method. In the Western tradition there are two basic approaches to skepticism. Cartesian skepticism —named somewhat misleadingly after René Descartes, who was not a skeptic but used some traditional skeptical arguments in his Meditations to help establish his rationalist approach to knowledge— attempts to show that any proposed knowledge claim can be doubted. Agrippan skepticism focuses on the process of justification rather than the possibility of doubt. According to this view there are three ways in which one might attempt to justify a claim but none of them are adequate: one can keep on providing further justification but this leads to an infinite regress; one can stop at a dogmatic assertion; or one can argue in circular reasoning, never reaching a viable conclusion.\n\nPhilosophical skepticism is distinguished from methodological skepticism in that philosophical skepticism is an approach that questions the possibility of certainty in knowledge, whereas methodological skepticism is an approach that subjects all knowledge claims to scrutiny with the goal of sorting out true from false claims.\n\nPhilosophical skepticism begins with the claim that the skeptic currently does not have knowledge. Some adherents maintain that knowledge is, in theory, possible. It could be argued that Socrates held that view. He appears to have thought that if people continue to ask questions they might eventually come to have knowledge; but that they did not have it yet. Some skeptics have gone further and claimed that true knowledge is impossible, for example the Academic school in Ancient Greece well after the time of Carneades. A third skeptical approach would be neither to accept nor reject the possibility of knowledge.\n\nSkepticism can be either about everything or about particular areas. A 'global' skeptic argues that he does not absolutely know anything to be either true or false. Academic global skepticism has great difficulty in supporting this claim while maintaining philosophical rigor, since it seems to require that nothing can be known—except for the knowledge that nothing can be known, though in its probabilistic form it can use and support the notion of weight of evidence. Thus, some probabilists avoid extreme skepticism by maintaining that they merely are 'reasonably certain' (or 'largely believe') some things are real or true. As for using probabilistic arguments to defend skepticism, in a sense this enlarges or increases scepticism, while the defence of empiricism by Empiricus weakens skepticism and strengthens dogmatism by alleging that sensory appearances are beyond doubt. Much later, Kant would re-define \"dogmatism\" to make indirect realism about the external world seem objectionable. While many Hellenists, outside of Empiricus, would maintain that everyone who is not sceptical about everything is a dogmatist, this position would seem too extreme for most later philosophers.\n\nNevertheless, A Pyrrhonian global skeptic labors under no such modern constraint, since he only alleged that he, personally, did not know anything and made no statement about the possibility of knowledge. Nor did Arcesilaus feel bound, since he merely corrected Socrates's \"I only know that I know nothing\" by adding \"I don't even know that\", thus more fully rejecting dogmatism.\n\n\"Local\" skeptics deny that people do or can have knowledge of a particular area. They may be skeptical about the possibility of one form of knowledge without doubting other forms. Different kinds of local skepticism may emerge, depending on the area. A person may doubt the truth value of different types of journalism, for example, depending on the types of media they trust.\n\nIn Islamic philosophy, skepticism was established by Al-Ghazali (1058–1111), known in the West as \"Algazel\", as part of the Ash'ari school of Islamic theology.\n\nFrancisco Sanches's \"That Nothing is Known\" (published in 1581 as \"Quod nihil scitur\") is one of the crucial texts of Renaissance skepticism.\n\nSkepticism, as an epistemological argument, poses the question of whether knowledge, in the first place, is possible. Skeptics argue that the belief in something does not necessarily justify an assertion of knowledge of it. In this, skeptics oppose dogmatic foundationalism, which states that there have to be some basic positions that are self-justified or beyond justification, without reference to others. (One example of such foundationalism may be found in Spinoza's \"Ethics\".) The skeptical response to this can take several approaches. First, claiming that \"basic positions\" must exist amounts to the logical fallacy of argument from ignorance combined with the slippery slope.\n\nAmong other arguments, skeptics used Agrippa's trilemma, named after Agrippa the Sceptic, to claim no certain belief could be achieved. Foundationalists have used the same \"trilemma\" as a justification for demanding the validity of basic beliefs.\n\nThis skeptical approach is rarely taken to its pyrrhonean extreme by most practitioners. Several modifications have arisen over the years, including the following :\n\nFictionalism would not claim to have knowledge but will adhere to conclusions on some criterion such as utility, aesthetics, or other personal criteria without claiming that any conclusion is actually \"true\".\n\nPhilosophical fideism (as opposed to religious Fideism) would assert the truth of some propositions, but does so without asserting certainty.\n\nSome forms of pragmatism would accept utility as a provisional guide to truth but not necessarily a universal decision-maker.\n\nThere are two different categories of epistemological skepticism, which can be referred to as mitigated and unmitigated skepticism. The two forms are contrasting but are still true forms of skepticism. Mitigated skepticism does not accept \"strong\" or \"strict\" knowledge claims but does, however, approve specific weaker ones. These weaker claims can be assigned the title of \"virtual knowledge\", but must be to justified belief. Unmitigated skepticism rejects both claims of virtual knowledge and strong knowledge. Characterising knowledge as strong, weak, virtual or genuine can be determined differently depending on a person's viewpoint as well as their characterisation of knowledge.\n\nMost philosophies have weaknesses and can be criticized and this is a general principle of progression in philosophy. The philosophy of skepticism asserts that no truth is knowable or only probable. Some say the scientific method also asserts probable findings, because the number of cases tested is always limited and they constitute perceptual observations. Another criticism is the proposition that “no truth is knowable” is knowably true is contradictory. The here is one hand argument is also another relatively simple criticism that reverses the skeptic's proposals and supports common sense.\n\nPierre Le Morvan (2011) has distinguished between three broad philosophical approaches to skepticism. The first he calls the \"Foil Approach.\" According to the latter, skepticism is treated as a problem to be solved, or challenge to be met, or threat to be parried; skepticism‘s value on this view, insofar as it is deemed to have one, accrues from its role as a foil contrastively illuminating what is required for knowledge and justified belief. The second he calls the \"Bypass Approach\" according to which skepticism is bypassed as a central concern of epistemology. Le Morvan advocates a third approach—he dubs it the \"Health Approach\"—that explores when skepticism is healthy and when it is not, or when it is virtuous and when it is vicious.\n\nA skeptical hypothesis is a hypothetical situation which can be used in an argument for skepticism about a particular claim or class of claims. Usually the hypothesis posits the existence of a deceptive power that deceives our senses and undermines the justification of knowledge otherwise accepted as justified. Skeptical hypotheses have received much attention in modern Western philosophy.\n\nThe first skeptical hypothesis in modern Western philosophy appears in René Descartes' \"Meditations on First Philosophy\". At the end of the first Meditation Descartes writes: \"I will suppose... that some evil demon of the utmost power and cunning has employed all his energies to deceive me.\"\n\n\nThe Western tradition of systematic skepticism goes back at least as far as Pyrrho of Elis (b. circa 360 BCE). However, \"The 5th century sophists develop forms of debate which are ancestors of skeptical argumentation. They take pride in arguing in a persuasive fashion for both sides of an issue.\" There were many disputes that could be found within the philosophical schools of his day, and according to a later account of his life by his student Timon of Phlius, Pyrrho extolled a way to become happy and tranquil.\n\n\"Whoever wants to live well (eudaimonia) must consider these three questions: First, how are \"pragmata\" (ethical matters, affairs, topics) by nature? Secondly, what attitude should we adopt towards them? Thirdly, what will be the outcome for those who have this attitude?\" Pyrrho's answer is that \"As for \"pragmata\" they are all adiaphora (undifferentiated by a logical differentia), \"astathmēta\" (unstable, unbalanced, not measurable), and \"anepikrita\" (unjudged, unfixed, undecidable). Therefore, neither our sense-perceptions nor our \"doxai\" (views, theories, beliefs) tell us the truth or lie; so we certainly should not rely on them. Rather, we should be \"adoxastous\" (without views), \"aklineis\" (uninclined toward this side or that), and \"akradantous\" (unwavering in our refusal to choose), saying about every single one that it no more is than it is not or it both is and is not or it neither is nor is not.\n\nThe main principle of Pyrrho's thought is expressed by the word \"acatalepsia\", which connotes the ability to withhold assent from doctrines regarding the truth of things in their own nature; against every statement its contradiction may be advanced with equal justification.\n\nPyrrhonists are not \"skeptics\" in the modern, common sense of the term, meaning prone to disbelief. They had the goal of \"αταραξια\" (\"ataraxia\" - peace of mind), and pitted one dogma against another to undermine belief in dogmatic propositions. The idea was to produce in the student a state of indifference towards ideas about non-evident matters. Since no one can observe or otherwise experience causation, external world (its \"externality\"), ultimate purpose of the universe or life, justice, divinity, soul, etc., they declared no need to believe in such things. The Pyrrhonists pointed out that, despite claims that such notions were necessary, some people ignorant of them get by just fine before learning about them. They further noted that science does not require belief and that faith in intelligible realities is different from pragmatic convention for the sake of experiment. For each intuitive notion (e.g. the existence of an external world), the Pyrrhonists cited a contrary opinion to negate it. They added that consensus indicates neither truth nor even probability.\n\nPyrrho's thinking subsequently influenced Plato's Academy, creating the Academic skepticism of the \"New or Middle Academy\", Arcesilaus (c. 315 – 241 BCE) and Carneades (c. 213–129 BCE) argued from Stoic premises that the Stoics were actually committed to denying the possibility of knowledge, but seemed to maintain nothing themselves, but Clitomachus, a student of Carneades, interpreted his teacher's philosophy as suggesting an early probabilistic account of knowledge. The Roman politician and philosopher, Cicero, also seems to have been a supporter of the probabilistic position attributed to the Middle Academy, even if the return to a more dogmatic orientation of that school was already beginning to take place.\n\nDiogenes Laërtius lists ten modes of reasoning which Pyrrhonists thought justified their position:\n\nIn the centuries to come, the words \"Academician\" and \"Pyrrhonist\" would often be used to mean generally \"skeptic\", often ignoring historical changes and distinctions between denial of knowledge and avoidance of belief, between degree of belief and absolute belief, and between possibility and probability.\n\nSextus Empiricus (c. 200 CE), the main authority for Pyrrhonian skepticism, worked outside the Academy, which by his time had ceased to be a skeptical or probabilistic school, and argued in a different direction, incorporating aspects of empiricism into the basis for evaluating knowledge, but without the insistence on experience as the absolute standard of it. Sextus' empiricism was limited to the \"absolute minimum\" already mentioned — that there seem to be appearances. He developed this basic thought of Pyrrho's into lengthy arguments, most of them directed against Stoics and Epicureans, but also the Academic skeptics. The common anti-skeptical argument is that if one knows nothing, one cannot know that one knows nothing, and so may know something after all. It is worth noting that such an argument only succeeds against the complete denial of the possibility of knowledge. Considering dogmatic the claims both to know and not to know, Sextus and his followers claimed neither. Instead, despite the apparent conflict with the goal of ataraxia, they claimed to continue searching for something that might be knowable.\n\nEmpiricus, as the most systematic author of the works by Hellenistic sceptics which have survived, noted that there are at least \"ten modes\" of skepticism. These modes may be broken down into three categories: one may be skeptical of \"the subjective perceiver, of the objective world\", and \"the relation between perceiver and the world\". His arguments are as follows.\n\n\"Subjectively\", both the powers of the senses and of reasoning may vary among different people. And since knowledge is a product of one or the other, and since neither are reliable, knowledge would seem to be in trouble. For instance, a color-blind person sees the world quite differently from everyone else. Moreover, one cannot even give preference on the basis of the power of reason, i.e., by treating the rational animal as a carrier of greater knowledge than the irrational animal, since the irrational animal is still adept at navigating their environment, which suggests the ability to \"know\" about some aspects of the environment.\n\nSecondly, the personality of the individual might also influence what they observe, since (it is argued) preferences are based on sense-impressions, differences in preferences can be attributed to differences in the way that people are affected by the object. (Empiricus:56)\n\nThird, the perceptions of each individual sense seemingly have nothing in common with the other senses: i.e., the color \"red\" has little to do with the feeling of touching a red object. This is manifest when our senses \"disagree\" with each other: for example, a mirage presents certain visible features, but is not responsive to any other kind of sense. In that case, our other senses defeat the impressions of sight. But one may also be lacking enough powers of sense to understand the world in its entirety: if one had an extra sense, then one might know of things in a way that the present five senses are unable to advise us of. Given that our senses can be shown to be unreliable by appealing to other senses, and so our senses may be incomplete (relative to some more perfect sense that one lacks), then it follows that all of our senses may be unreliable. (Empiricus:58)\n\nFourth, our circumstances when one perceives anything may be either natural or unnatural, i.e., one may be either in a state of wakefulness or sleep. But it is entirely possible that things in the world really are exactly as they appear to be to those in unnatural states (i.e., if everything were an elaborate dream). (Empiricus:59)\n\nOne can have reasons for doubt that are based on the \"relationship between objective \"facts\" and subjective experience\". The positions, distances, and places of objects would seem to affect how they are perceived by the person: for instance, the portico may appear tapered when viewed from one end, but symmetrical when viewed at the other; and these features are different. Because they are different features, to believe the object has both properties at the same time is to believe it has two contradictory properties. Since this is absurd, one must suspend judgment about what properties it possesses due to the contradictory experiences. (Empiricus:63)\n\nOne may also observe that the things one perceives are, in a sense, polluted by experience. Any given perception—say, of a chair—will always be perceived within some context or other (i.e., next to a table, on a mat, etc.) Since this is the case, one often only speaks of ideas as they occur in the context of the other things that are paired with it, and therefore, one can never know of the true nature of the thing, but only how it appears to us in context. (Empiricus: 64)\n\nAlong the same lines, the skeptic may insist that all things are relative, by arguing that:\n\nFinally, one has reason to disbelieve that one knows anything by looking at problems in understanding objects by themselves. Things, when taken individually, may appear to be very different from when they are in mass quantities: for instance, the shavings of a goat's horn are white when taken alone, yet the horn intact is black.\n\nIn 386 CE, Augustine published \"Contra Academicos\" (Against the Skeptics), which argued against claims that Academic Skeptics (266 BCE - 90 BCE) made: \n\nThe most notable figure of the Skepticism revival in the 1500s, Montaigne wrote about his studies of Academic Skepticism and Pyrrhonism through his Essais.\n\nHis most notable writings on Skepticism occurred in an essay written mostly in 1575–1576, \"Apologie de Raimond Sebond,\" when he was reading Sextus Empiricus and trying to translate Raimond Sebond's writing, including his proof of Christianity's natural existence. The reception to Montaigne's translations included some criticisms of Sebond's proof. Montaigne responded to some of them in \"Apologie,\" including a defense for Sebond's logic that is skeptical in nature and similar to Pyrrhonism. His refutation is as follows:\n\nMarin Mersenne was an author, a mathematician, a scientist, and a philosopher. He wrote in defense of science and Christianity against atheists and Pyrrhonists before retiring to encourage development of science and the \"new philosophy,\" which includes philosophers like Gassendi, Descartes, Galileo, and Hobbes. A major work of his in relation to Skepticism is \"La Verité des Sciences\", in which he argues that although we may not be able to know the true nature of things, we can still formulate certain laws and rules for sense-perceptions through science.\n\nAdditionally, he points out that we do not doubt everything because:\nA Pyrrhonist might refute these points by saying that senses deceive, and thus knowledge turns into infinite regress or circular logic. Thus Mersenne argues that this cannot be the case, since commonly agreed upon rules of thumb can be hypothesized and tested over time to ensure that they continue to hold.\n\nFurthermore, if everything can be doubted, the doubt can also be doubted, so on and so forth. Thus, according to Mersenne, something has to be true. Finally, Mersenne writes about all the mathematical, physical, and other scientific knowledge that is true by repeated testing, and has practical use value. Notably, Mersenne was one of the few philosophers who accepted Hobbes' radical ideology—he saw it as a new science of man.\n\nDuring his long stay in Paris, Thomas Hobbes was actively involved in the circle of major skeptics like Gassendi and Mersenne who focus on the study of skepticism and epistemology. Unlike his fellow skeptic friends, Hobbes never treated skepticism as a main topic for discussion in his works. Nonetheless, Hobbes was still labeled as a religious skeptic by his contemporaries for raising doubts about Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch and his political and psychological explanation of the religions. Although Hobbes himself did not go further to challenge other religious principles, his suspicion for the Mosaic authorship did significant damage to the religious traditions and paved the way for later religious skeptics like Spinoza and Isaac La Peyrère to further question some of the fundamental beliefs of the Judeo-Christian religious system. Hobbes' answer to skepticism and epistemology was innovatively political: he believed that moral knowledge and religious knowledge were in their nature relative, and there was no absolute standard of truth governing them. As a result, it was out of political reasons that certain truth standards about religions and ethics were devised and established in order to form functioning government and stable society.\n\nBaruch Spinoza was among the first European philosophers who were religious skeptics. He was quite familiar with the philosophy of Descartes and unprecedentedly extended the application of the Cartesian method to the religious context by analyzing religious texts with it. Spinoza sought to dispute the knowledge-claims of the Judeo-Christian-Islamic religious system by examining its two foundations: the Scripture and the Miracles. He claimed that all Cartesian knowledge, or the rational knowledge should be accessible to the entire population. Therefore, the Scriptures, aside from those by Jesus, should not be considered the secret knowledge attained from God but just the imagination of the prophets. The Scriptures, as a result of this claim, could not serve as a base for knowledge and were reduced to simple ancient historical texts. Moreover, Spinoza also rejected the possibility for the Miracles by simply asserting that people only considered them miraculous due to their lack of understanding of the nature. By rejecting the validity of the Scriptures and the Miracles, Spinoza demolished the foundation for religious knowledge-claim and established his understanding of the Cartesian knowledge as the sole authority of knowledge-claims. Despite being deeply-skeptical of the religions, Spinoza was in fact exceedingly anti-skeptical towards reason and rationality. He steadfastly confirmed the legitimacy of reason by associating it with the acknowledgement of God, and thereby skepticism with the rational approach to knowledge was not due to problems with the rational knowledge but from the fundamental lack of understanding of God. Spinoza's religious skepticism and anti-skepticism with reason thus helped him transform epistemology by separating the theological knowledge-claims and the rational knowledge-claims.\n\nPierre Bayle was a French philosopher in the late 17th century that was described by Richard Popkin to be a \"supersceptic\" who carried out the sceptic tradition to the extreme. Bayle was born in a Calvinist family in Carla-Bayle, and during the early stage of his life, he converted into Catholicism before returning to Calvinism. This conversion between religions caused him to leave France for the more religiously tolerant Holland where he stayed and worked for the rest of his life.\n\nBayle believed that truth cannot be obtained through reason and that all human endeavor to acquire absolute knowledge would inevitably lead to failure. Bayle's main approach was highly skeptical and destructive: he sought to examine and analyze all existing theories in all fields of human knowledge in order to show the faults in their reasoning and thus the absurdity of the theories themselves. In his \"magnum opus, Dictionnaire Historique et Critique\" \"(Historical and Critical Dictionary),\" Bayle painstakingly identified the logical flaws in several works throughout the history in order to emphasize the absolute futility of rationality. Bayle's complete nullification of reason led him to conclude that faith is the final and only way to truth.\n\nBayle's real intention behind his extremely destructive works remained controversial. Some described him to be a Fideist, while others speculated him to be a secret Atheist. However, no matter what his original intention was, Bayle did cast significant influence on the upcoming Age of Enlightenment with his destruction of some of the most essential theological ideas and his justification of religious tolerance Atheism in his works.\n\nImmanuel Kant (1724–1804) tried to provide a ground for empirical science against David Hume's skeptical treatment of the notion of cause and effect. Hume (1711–1776) argued that for the notion of cause and effect no analysis is possible which is also acceptable to the empiricist program primarily outlined by John Locke (1632–1704). But, Kant's attempt to give a ground to knowledge in the empirical sciences at the same time cut off the possibility of knowledge of any other knowledge, especially what Kant called \"metaphysical knowledge\". So, for Kant, empirical science was legitimate, but metaphysics and philosophy was mostly illegitimate. The most important exception to this demarcation of the legitimate from the illegitimate was ethics, the principles of which Kant argued can be known by pure reason without appeal to the principles required for empirical knowledge. Thus, with respect to metaphysics and philosophy in general (ethics being the exception), Kant was a skeptic. This skepticism as well as the explicit skepticism of G. E. Schulze gave rise to a robust discussion of skepticism in classical German philosophy, especially by Hegel. Kant's idea was that the real world (the \"noumenon\" or thing-in-itself) was inaccessible to human reason (though the empirical world of nature can be known to human understanding) and therefore we can never know anything about the ultimate reality of the world. Hegel argued against Kant that although Kant was right that using what Hegel called \"finite\" concepts of \"the understanding\" precluded knowledge of reality, we were not constrained to use only \"finite\" concepts and could actually acquire knowledge of reality using \"infinite concepts\" that arise from self-consciousness.\n\nBecause Richard Popkin was one of the founding fathers of study in this area, the account of the history of Skepticism in his books are accepted as the standard. However, recent scholars have been suggesting an addition to Popkin's account. Instead of centering the history of Skepticism around specific figures who wrote key skeptical works, Skepticism is proposed to be a continuous engagement with works by ancients like Sextus Empiricus to modern thinkers like Hume. The engagement with previous works were probably due to unwanted doubts about accepted episteme instead of purely due to classical writings becoming available at any specific time.\n\nAjñana (literally 'non-knowledge') were the skeptical school of ancient Indian philosophy. It was a śramaṇa movement and a major rival of early Buddhism and Jainism. They have been recorded in Buddhist and Jain texts. They held that it was impossible to obtain knowledge of metaphysical nature or ascertain the truth value of philosophical propositions; and even if knowledge was possible, it was useless and disadvantageous for final salvation.\n\nThe historical Buddha asserted certain doctrines as true, such as the possibility of nirvana, however he also upheld a form of skepticism with regards to certain questions which he left \"un-expounded\" (\"avyākata\") and some he saw as \"incomprehensible\" (\"acinteyya\"). Because the Buddha saw these questions (which tend to be of metaphysical topics) as unhelpful on the path and merely leading to confusion and \"a thicket of views\", he promoted suspension of judgment towards them. This allowed him to carve out an epistemic middle way between what he saw as the extremes of claiming absolute objectivity (associated with the claims to omniscience of the Jain Mahavira) and extreme skepticism (associated with the Ajñana thinker Sanjaya Belatthiputta).\n\nLater Buddhist Philosophy remained highly skeptical of Indian metaphysical arguments. The Buddhist philosopher Nagarjuna in particular has been seen as the founder of the Madhyamaka school, which has been in turn compared with Greek Skepticism. Nagarjuna's statement that he has \"no thesis\" (\"pratijña\") has parallels in the statements of Sextus Empiricus of having \"no position\". Nagarjuna famously opens his magnum opus, the \"Mulamadhyamakakarika\", with the statement that the Buddha claimed that true happiness was found through dispelling 'vain thinking' (prapañca, also \"conceptual proliferation\").\n\nAccording to Richard P. Hayes, the Buddhist philosopher Dignaga is also a kind of skeptic, which is in line with most early Buddhist philosophy. Hayes writes:\n\n...in both early Buddhism and in the Skeptics one can find the view put forward that man's pursuit of happiness, the highest good, is obstructed by his tenacity in holding ungrounded and unnecessary opinions about all manner of things. Much of Buddhist philosophy, I shall argue, can be seen as an attempt to break this habit of holding on to opinions.\n\nScholars like Adrian Kuzminski have argued that Pyrrho of Elis (ca. 365–270) might have been influenced by Indian Buddhists during his journey with Alexander the Great.\n\nThe Cārvāka (Sanskrit: चार्वाक) school of materialism, also known as Lokāyata, is a distinct branch of Indian philosophy. The school is named after Cārvāka, author of the Bārhaspatya-sūtras and was founded in approximately 500 BC. Cārvāka is classified as a \"heterodox\" (nāstika) system, characterized as a materialistic and atheistic school of thought. This school was also known for being strongly skeptical of the claims of Indian religions, such as reincarnation and karma.\n\nWhile Jain philosophy claims that is it possible to achieve omniscience, absolute knowledge (Kevala Jnana), at the moment of enlightenment, their theory of anekāntavāda or 'many sided-ness', also known as the principle of relative pluralism, allows for a practical form of skeptical thought regarding philosophical and religious doctrines (for un-enlightened beings, not all-knowing arihants).\n\nAccording to this theory, the truth or the reality is perceived differently from different points of view, and that no single point of view is the complete truth. Jain doctrine states that, an object has infinite modes of existence and qualities and, as such, they cannot be completely perceived in all its aspects and manifestations, due to inherent limitations of the humans. Anekāntavāda is literally the doctrine of non-onesidedness or manifoldness; it is often translated as \"non-absolutism\". Syādvāda is the theory of conditioned predication which provides an expression to anekānta by recommending that epithet “Syād” be attached to every expression. Syādvāda is not only an extension of Anekānta ontology, but a separate system of logic capable of standing on its own force. As reality is complex, no single proposition can express the nature of reality fully. Thus the term “syāt” should be prefixed before each proposition giving it a conditional point of view and thus removing any dogmatism in the statement. For Jains, fully enlightened beings are able to see reality from all sides and thus have ultimate knowledge of all things. This idea of omniscience was criticized by Buddhists such as Dharmakirti.\n\nZhuang Zhou (庄子，\"Master Zhuang\") was a famous ancient Chinese Taoism philosopher during the Hundred Schools of Thought period. Zhuang Zhou demonstrated his skeptical thinking through several anecdotes in the preeminent work Zhuangzi that was attributed to him:\nThrough these anecdotes in Zhuangzi, Zhuang Zhou indicated his belief in the limitation of language and human communication and the inaccessibility of universal truth which established himself as an skeptic. But Zhuang Zhou was by no means a radical skeptic, since he only applied skeptical methods partially in some of his arguments to demonstrate his Taoism beliefs while adopting these Taoism beliefs in a dogmatic fashion.\n\nWang Chong () was the leading figure of the skeptic branch of the Confucianism school in China during the first century AD. He introduced a method of rational critique and applied it to the wide-spread dogmatism thinking of his age like phenomenology (the main contemporary Confucianism ideology that linked all natural phenomena with human ethics), state-led cults, and popular superstition. His own philosophy incorporated both Taoism and Confucianism thinkings, and it was based on a secular, rational practice of developing hypotheses based on natural events to explain the universe which exemplified a form of naturalism that resembled the philosophical idea of Epicureans like Lucretius.\n\n\"The Incoherence of the Philosophers\", written by the scholar Al-Ghazali (1058–1111), marks a major turn in Islamic epistemology. His encounter with skepticism led Ghazali to embrace a form of theological occasionalism, or the belief that all causal events and interactions are not the product of material conjunctions but rather the immediate and present will of God. While he himself was a critic of the philosophers, Ghazali was a master in the art of philosophy and had immensely studied the field. After such a long education in philosophy, as well as a long process of reflection, he had criticized the philosophical method.\n\nIn the autobiography Ghazali wrote towards the end of his life, \"The Deliverance From Error\" (\"Al-munqidh min al-ḍalāl\" ), Ghazali recounts how, once a crisis of epistemological skepticism was resolved by \"a light which God Most High cast into my breast...the key to most knowledge,\" he studied and mastered the arguments of Kalam, Islamic philosophy, and Ismailism. Though appreciating what was valid in the first two of these, at least, he determined that all three approaches were inadequate and found ultimate value only in the mystical experience and spiritual insight he attained as a result of following Sufi practices. William James, in \"Varieties of Religious Experience\", considered the autobiography an important document for \"the purely literary student who would like to become acquainted with the inwardness of religions other than the Christian\", comparing it to recorded personal religious confessions and autobiographical literature in the Christian tradition.\n\nRecordings of Aztec philosophy suggest that the elite classes believed in an essentially panentheistic worldview, in which teotl represents an unified, underlying universal force. Human beings cannot truly perceive teotl due to its chaotic, constantly changing nature, just the \"masks\"/facets it is manifested as.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "497563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497563", "title": "Pierre Prévost", "text": "Pierre Prévost\n\nPierre Prévost (; 3 March 1751 – 8 April 1839) was a Genevan philosopher and physicist. In 1791 he explained Pictet's experiment by arguing that all bodies radiate heat, no matter how hot or cold they are.\n\nSon of a Protestant clergyman in Geneva in the Republic of Geneva, he was born in that city and was educated for a clerical career. However, he abandoned it for law, and this too he quickly deserted to devote himself to education and to travelling. He became close friends with Jean Jacques Rousseau and, a little later, with Dugald Stewart, having previously distinguished himself as a translator of and commentator on Euripides.\n\nFrederick II of Prussia secured him in 1780 as professor of philosophy and made him member of the Akademie der Wissenschaften in Berlin. He there became acquainted with Joseph Louis Lagrange and was thus led to turn his attention to physical science.\n\nAfter some years spent on political economy and on the principles of the fine arts (in connection with which he wrote, for the \"Berlin Memoirs\", a remarkable dissertation on poetry) he returned to Geneva and began his work on magnetism and on heat. Interrupted occasionally in his studies by political duties in which he was often called to the front, he remained professor of philosophy at Geneva until he was called in 1810 to the chair of physics. \n\nHe died at Geneva in 1839.\n\nPrévost published much on philology, philosophy, and political economy, but he will be remembered mainly for having published, with additions of his own, the \"Traité de physique\" by Georges-Louis Le Sage, and for his enunciation of the law of exchange in radiation.\n\nHis scientific publications included \"De l'Origine des forces magnetiques\", \"Mémoire sur l'Equilibre du feu\", \"Recherches physico-mecaniques sur la chaleur\", and \"Essai sur le calorique rayonnant\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "399630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=399630", "title": "Posting style", "text": "Posting style\n\nWhen a message is replied to in e-mail, Internet forums, or Usenet, the original can often be included, or “quoted,” in a variety of different posting styles.\n\nThe main options are interleaved posting (also called inline replying, in which the different parts of the reply follow the relevant parts of the original post), bottom-posting (in which the reply follows the quote) or top-posting (in which the reply precedes the quoted original message). For each of those options, there is also the issue of whether trimming of the original text is allowed, required, or preferred.\n\nFor a long time the traditional style was to post the answer below as much of the quoted original as was necessary to understand the reply (bottom or inline). Many years later, when email became widespread in business communication, it became a widespread practice to reply above the entire original and leave it (supposedly untouched) below the reply.\n\nWhile each online community differs on which styles are appropriate or acceptable, within some communities the use of the “wrong” method risks being seen as a breach of netiquette, and can provoke vehement response from community regulars.\n\nIn an e-mail reply, it is sometimes appropriate to include a full or partial copy of the original message that is being replied to. As opposed to in-person conversations and Internet chats, email responses may be received long after the original message was sent, so the original sender may have forgotten, misplaced or deleted the original. Many email reading programs (mail user agents) encourage this behaviour by automatically including a copy of the original message in the reply editing window.\n\nQuoted text from previous messages is usually distinguished in some way from the new (reply) text. At a minimum, the two parts are given different indentation. In the example below, the first line is the original message, the second line is the reply:\n\nAlternatively, special delimiter lines may be used:\n\nFor extra clarity, blank lines may also be inserted between the two parts. When using an email medium that supports text markup (such as HTML or RTF), the previous text may be indicated by a distinctive font and/or color:\n\nA common convention in plain-text email is to prefix each line of the quoted text with a distinctive character or string. Today (and for many years previously), the greater-than sign (“codice_1”, the canonical prefix) is almost universally used; but other characters such as the ASCII vertical bar character (“codice_2”) have been used as well, sometimes with one or more spaces inserted before or after the quoted text marker.\n\nThere is no standard declaring one quote-prefix to be “right” and others to be “wrong”, but some standards depend on conventional quoting. The (unpublished) “son-of-1036” draft recommends “codice_1” as the quote-prefix; RFC 3676 depends on it and considers “codice_4” and “codice_5” to be semantically different. That is, “codice_4” has a quote-depth of two, while “codice_5” has a quote-depth of one, quoting a line starting with “>”. Most e-mail clients treat both alternatives equivalently, however.\n\nThe convention of quoting was common in Usenet newsgroups by 1990, and is supported by many popular email interfaces, either by default or as a user-settable option. In Microsoft Outlook, for instance, this option is labeled “prefix each line of the original.” Besides inserting markers automatically in quoted lines, some interfaces assume that a line starting with a “codice_1” character or similar is quoted text, and will automatically display it in a distinctive font or color:\n\nSometimes the insertion of a quoted line marker will cause one original line to be folded as two lines in the reply, and the continuation line may not have the proper marker. To avoid ambiguity in such cases, one may consider inserting blank lines after each block of quoted text:\n\nQuoted line markers are most commonly used in plain-text messages. In HTML messages, other devices may be used to indicate quoted text, such as HTML indentation elements like codice_9 or codice_10.\n\nA message often includes text from two or more messages exchanged in previous rounds of a long discussion. If an additional quotation marker is inserted at every round, without removing any existing markers, the number of markers at the beginning of each line will show the “level” of the reply, that is, how many rounds have occurred since that line was written. These accumulated markers are usually sufficient to distinguish the parts that came from each message. Some email interfaces recognize this convention and automatically render each level in a different color. For example:\n\nIf the discussion is between two parties only, then an even number of markers (including zero) identifies text written by the sender, while an odd number of markers identifies text by the recipient. (In the above example even numbers are Joe's text and odd number are Mary's.)\n\nIn HTML messages, codice_9 or codice_10 elements may be nested to achieve the same effect.\n\nQuoted material is often preceded by an \"attribution line\" that identifies its author. These lines are particularly helpful in discussions between multiple parties. For example:\n\nThis reply quotes two messages, one by Nancy (itself a reply to Peter) and one by Peter (itself a reply to Mary).\n\nMany mail agents will add these attribution lines automatically to the top of the quoted material. Note that a newly added attribution line should not get the quotation marker, since it is not part of the quoted text; so that the level indicator of the attribution line is always one less than the corresponding text. Doing otherwise may confuse the reader and also e-mail interfaces that choose the text color according to the number of leading markers.\n\nInstead of an attribution line, one may indicate the author by a comment in brackets, at the beginning of the quotation:\n\nAnother alternative, used in Fidonet and some mail user agents, is to place the initials of the author before the quoting marker. This may be used with or without attribution lines:\n\nWhen replying to long discussions, particularly in newsgroup discussions, quoted text from the original message is often trimmed so as to leave only the parts that are relevant to the reply — or only a reminder thereof. This practice is sometimes called “trim-posting” or “edited posting”, and is recommended by some manuals of posting etiquette.\n\nSometimes an indicator of deleted text is given, usually in the form of a square bracketed tag as: “[snipped],” “[trimmed],” or simply “[...]”. The text that is retained may be edited to some extent, e.g. by re-folding the lines. For example, if the original message was\n\nthe reply may be\n\nor even just\n\nDeleted text may also be replaced by a summary in brackets:\n\nAutomatically included text (such as signature blocks, free e-mail service ads, and corporate disclaimers) are more likely to be deleted, usually without ellipses, than manually written text. Some posters may delete any parts of the original message that they are not replying to. Some posters delete only parts dealing with issues that they see as “closed,” and leave any parts that, in their opinion, deserve further discussion or will be replied to in a later message.\n\nSome style guides recommend that, as a general rule, quoted material in replies should be trimmed or summarized as much as possible, keeping only the parts that are necessary to make the readers understand the replies. That of course depends on how much the readers can be assumed to know about the discussion. For personal e-mail, in particular, the subject line is often sufficient, and no quoting is necessary; unless one is replying to only some points of a long message.\n\nIn particular, when replying to a message that already included quoted text, one should consider whether that quoted material is still relevant. For example:\n\nThe quote from Mary's message is relevant to Peter's reply, but not to Joe's reply. The latter could have been trimmed to\n\nOn the other hand, in some situations, any trimming or editing of the original message may be inappropriate. For example, if the reply is being copied to a third person who did not see the original message, it may be advisable to quote it in full; otherwise the trimmed message may be misinterpreted by the new recipient, for lack of context.\n\nAlso, when replying to a customer or supplier, it may be advisable to quote the original message in its entirety, in case the other party somehow failed to keep a copy of it.\n\nIn the interleaved reply style (also called “inline reply,” “interlined reply,” “point-by-point rebuttal,” or, sometimes, “bottom posting”), the original message is broken into two or more sections, each followed by a specific reply or comment. A reply in inline style may also include some top-posted or bottom-posted comments that apply to the whole reply message, rather than to a specific point. For example:\n\nThe interleaved reply style can also be combined with top-posting: selected points are quoted and replied to, as above, and then a full copy of the original message is appended.\n\nInterleaving was the predominant reply style in the Usenet discussion lists, years before the existence of the WWW and the spread of e-mail and the Internet outside the academic community.\n\nInterleaving was also common originally in e-mail, because many internet users had been exposed to Usenet newsgroups and other Internet forums, where it is still used. The style became less common for email after the opening of the internet to commercial and non-academic personal use. One possible reason is the large number of casual e-mail users that entered the scene at that time. Another possible reason is the inadequate support provided by the reply function of some webmail readers, which either do not automatically insert a copy of the original message into the reply, or do so without any quoting prefix level indicators. Finally, most forums, wiki discussion pages, and blogs (such as Slashdot) essentially impose the bottom-post format, by displaying all recent messages in chronological order.. Interleaving continues to be used on technical mailing lists where clarity within complex threads is important..\n\nIn top-posting style, the original message is included verbatim, with the reply above it. It is sometimes referred to by the term TOFU, an acronym for “text over, fullquote under.” It has also been colloquially referred to as \"Jeopardy!\" reply style. The original message asks a question and the reply answers it, so the order in which these texts appear follows the format of that game show, where the answer (the clue) comes first and the response is a question.\n\nExample:\n\nTop-posting preserves an apparently unmodified transcript of a branch in the conversation. Often all replies line up in a single branch of a conversation. The top of the text shows the latest replies. This appears to be advantageous for business correspondence, where an e-mail thread can dupe others into believing it is an “official” record.\n\nBy contrast, excessive indentation of interleaved and bottom posting may turn difficult to interpret. If the participants have different stature such as manager vs. employee or consultant vs. client, one person's cutting apart another person's words without the full context may look impolite or cause misunderstanding.\n\nIn the earlier days of Usenet informal discussions where everyone was an equal encouraged bottom-posting. Until the mid-1990s, posts in a net.newcomers newsgroup insisted on interleaving replies. Usenet \"comp.lang\" hierarchy, especially comp.lang.c and comp.lang.c++ insisted on the same as of the 2010s. The \"alt\" hierarchy tolerated top-posting. Newer online participants, especially those with limited experience of Usenet, tend to be less sensitive to arguments about posting style.\n\nTop-posting can be problematic on mailing lists with ongoing discussions which eventually require someone to act on the top-posted material. For example, top-posting “Those changes look ok to me, go ahead and make them” can be very inconvenient for the person who needs to make the changes if he or she has to read through a long email trail to know which changes the top-poster is referring to. Inter-leaving the text directly below the text describing the changes is much more convenient in these cases.\n\nUsers of mobile devices, like smartphones, are encouraged to use top-posting because the devices may only download the beginning of a message for viewing. The rest of the message is only retrieved when needed, which takes additional download time. Putting the relevant content at the beginning of the message requires less bandwidth, less time, and less scrolling for the user.\n\nTop-posting is a natural consequence of the behavior of the “reply” function in many current e-mail readers, such as Microsoft Outlook, Gmail, and others. By default, these programs insert into the reply message a copy of the original message (without headers and often without any extra indentation or quotation markers), and position the editing cursor above it. Moreover, a bug present on most flavours of Microsoft Outlook caused the quotation markers to be lost when replying in plain text to a message that was originally sent in HTML/RTF. \nFor these and possibly other reasons, many users seem to accept top-posting as the “standard” reply style.\n\nPartially because of Microsoft's influence, top-posting is very common on mailing lists and in personal e-mail.\n\nTop-posting has always been the standard format for forwarding a message to a third party, in which case the comments at the top (if any) are a \"cover note\" for the recipient.\n\nIn the \"bottom-posting\" style, the reply is appended to a full or partial copy of the original message. The name bottom-posting is sometimes used for inline-style replies, and indeed the two formats are the same when only one point is being replied to.\n\nBottom-posting, like inline replies, encourages posters to trim the original message as much as possible, so that readers are not forced to scroll past irrelevant text, or text that they have already seen in the original message:\n\nThe choice between interleaved, top or bottom posting generally depends on the forum and on the nature of the message. Some forums (such as personal e-mail) are quite tolerant, in which case the proper style is dictated by taste and effectiveness. In any case one should consider whether the reply will be easily read by the intended recipient(s). Their e-mail interfaces may have different rules for handling quoted line markers and long lines, so a reply that looks readable in one's screen may be jumbled and incorrectly colored on theirs. Blank lines and judicious trimming of the original text may help avoid ambiguity.\n\nThe interleaved reply style can require more work in terms of labeling lines, but possibly less work in establishing the context of each reply line. It also keeps the quotes and their replies close to each other and in logical reading order, and encourages trimming of the quoted material to the bare minimum. This style makes it easier for readers to identify the points of the original message that are being replied to; in particular, whether the reply misunderstood or ignored some point of the original text. It also gives the sender freedom to arrange the quoted parts in any order, and to provide a single comment to quotations from two or more separate messages, even if these did not include each other.\n\nTop- and bottom-posting are sometimes compared to traditional written correspondence in that the response is a single continuous text, and the whole original is appended only to clarify which letter is being replied to. Customer service e-mail practices, in particular, often require that all points be addressed in a clear manner without quoting, while the original e-mail message may be included as an attachment. Including the whole original message may be necessary also when a new correspondent is included in an ongoing discussion. Especially in business correspondence, an entire message thread may need to be forwarded to a third party for handling or discussion. On the other hand, in environments where the entire discussion is accessible to new readers (such as newsgroups or online forums), full inclusion of previous messages is inappropriate; if quoting is necessary, the interleaved style is probably best.\n\nIf the original message is to be quoted in full, for any reason, bottom-posting is usually the most appropriate format — because it preserves the logical order of the replies and is consistent with the Western reading direction from top to bottom.\n\nIt is not uncommon during discussions concerning top-posting vs. bottom-posting to hear quotes from \"Netiquette Guidelines (RFC 1855)\". While many RFCs are vetted and approved though a committee process, some RFCs, such as RFC 1844, are just \"Informational\" and in reality, sometimes just personal opinions. (Additional information on \"Informational\" RFCs can be found in RFC 2026, under \"4.2.2 Informational\" and \"4.2.3 Procedures for Experimental and Informational RFCs\".) The nature of RFC 1855 should be considered while reading the following discussion.\n\nAccording to RFC 1855, a message can begin with an abbreviated summary; i.e. a post can begin with a paraphrasing instead of quoting selectively. Specifically, it says:\n\nInterleaved reply combined with top-posting combines the advantages of both styles. However this also results in some portions of the original message being quoted twice, which takes up extra space and may confuse the reader.\n\nIn forwarding it is sometimes preferred to include the entire original message (including all headers) as a MIME attachment, while in top-posted replies these are often trimmed or replaced by an attribution line. An untrimmed quoted message is a weaker form of transcript, as key pieces of meta information are destroyed. (This is why an ISP's Postmaster will typically insist on a \"forwarded\" copy of any problematic e-mail, rather than a quote.) These forwarded messages are displayed in the same way as top-posting in some mail clients.\nTop-posting is viewed as seriously destructive to mailing-list digests, where multiple levels of top-posting are difficult to skip. The worst case would be top-posting while including an entire digest as the original message.\n\nSome believe that \"top-posting\" is appropriate for interpersonal e-mail, but inline posting should always be applied to threaded discussions such as newsgroups.\n\nThis example is occasionally used in mailing lists to mock and discourage top-posting:\n\nBottom-posting preserves the logical order of the replies and is consistent with the Western reading direction from top to bottom.\n\nThe major argument against bottom-posting is that scrolling down through a post to find a reply is inconvenient, especially for short replies to long messages, and many inexperienced computer users may not know that they need to scroll down to find a reply to their query. When sending an untrimmed bottom-posted message, one might indicate inline replies with a notice at the top such as \"I have replied below.\" However, as many modern mail programs are capable of displaying different levels of quotation with different colors (as seen in the bottom-posting example on this page), this is not so much of an issue any more. Another method to indicate that there is more reply text still to come is to always end your text with a signature line. Then a reader who is familiar with your reply style will know to continue to read until your signature line appears. This method is particularly polite and useful when using the inline reply method, since it tells the reader that your response is complete at the point where your signature line appears.\n\nThis widespread policy in business communication made bottom and inline posting so unknown among most users that some of the most popular email programs no longer support the traditional posting style. For example, Microsoft Outlook, AOL, and Yahoo! make it difficult or impossible to indicate which part of a message is the quoted original or do not let users insert comments between parts of the original.\n\nYahoo! does not have the option \"Quote the text of the original message\" in Mail Classic, but this setting is retained after turning it on in All-New Mail and then switching back to Mail Classic. Inline replying is broken in Microsoft Outlook, which despite choosing the setting to prefix each line of the original with the \"greater-than\" character (>) produces a blue line that makes answers inserted between quotes of an HTML email look like part of the original. The workarounds are to use the setting \"read all standard mail in plain text\", or to use the \"Edit Message\" option on the original email and convert it to plain text before replying (then discard the edited version).\n\n"}
{"id": "34446464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34446464", "title": "Proceedings of the International Association for Business and Society", "text": "Proceedings of the International Association for Business and Society\n\nThe Proceedings of the International Association for Business and Society is an\nannual series that publishes a selection of the peer-reviewed papers presented at the association's annual conference.\n\nEach volume contains papers in the following areas:\n\n\nThe International Association for Business and Society is a learned society that supports research and teaching about the relationships between business, government, and society. It has published these \"Proceedings\" for its members since 1990, first in print format and then on CD-ROM. The series is now only published in electronic format and volumes 16 (2005) to the present are available online from the Philosophy Documentation Center. Contributors include Donna Wood, Duane Windsor, James Weber, Steven Wartick, Mark Starik, Sanjay Sharma, Kathleen Rehbein, Gordon Rands, Robert Phillips, John Mahon, Jeanne Logsdon, Anne Lawrence, Bryan Husted, and Virginia Gerde.\n\n"}
{"id": "1468653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1468653", "title": "Religious experience", "text": "Religious experience\n\nA religious experience (sometimes known as a spiritual experience, sacred experience, or mystical experience) is a subjective experience which is interpreted within a religious framework. The concept originated in the 19th century, as a defense against the growing rationalism of Western society. William James popularised the concept.\n\nMany religious and mystical traditions see religious experiences (particularly that knowledge which comes with them) as revelations caused by divine agency rather than ordinary natural processes. They are considered real encounters with God or gods, or real contact with higher-order realities of which humans are not ordinarily aware.\n\nSkeptics may hold that religious experience is an evolved feature of the human brain amenable to normal scientific study. The commonalities and differences between religious experiences across different cultures have enabled scholars to categorize them for academic study.\n\nPsychologist and philosopher William James described four characteristics of mystical experience in \"The Varieties of Religious Experience.\" According to James, such an experience is:\n\nNorman Habel defines religious experiences as the structured way in which a believer enters into a relationship with, or gains an awareness of, the sacred within the context of a particular religious tradition (Habel, O'Donoghue and Maddox: 1993). Religious experiences are by their very nature preternatural; that is, out of the ordinary or beyond the natural order of things. They may be difficult to distinguish observationally from psychopathological states such as psychoses or other forms of altered awareness (Charlesworth: 1988). Not all preternatural experiences are considered to be religious experiences. Following Habel's definition, psychopathological states or drug-induced states of awareness are not considered to be religious experiences because they are mostly not performed within the context of a particular religious tradition.\n\nMoore and Habel identify two classes of religious experiences: the immediate and the mediated religious experience (Moore and Habel: 1982).\n\nIn his book \"Faith and Reason\", the philosopher Richard Swinburne formulated five categories into which all religious experiences fall:\nSwinburne also suggested two principles for the assessment of religious experiences:\n\nThe German thinker Rudolf Otto (1869–1937) argues that there is one common factor to all religious experience, independent of the cultural background. In his book \"The Idea of the Holy\" (1923) he identifies this factor as the numinous. The \"numinous\" experience has two aspects:\n\nThe numinous experience also has a personal quality to it, in that the person feels to be in communion with a holy other. Otto sees the numinous as the only possible religious experience. He states: \"There is no religion in which it [the numinous] does not live as the real innermost core and without it no religion would be worthy of the name\" (Otto: 1972). Otto does not take any other kind of religious experience such as ecstasy and enthusiasm seriously and is of the opinion that they belong to the 'vestibule of religion'.\n\n\nThe notion of \"religious experience\" can be traced back to William James, who used the term \"religious experience\" in his book, \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\". It is considered to be the classic work in the field, and references to James' ideas are common at professional conferences. James distinguished between institutional religion and personal religion. Institutional religion refers to the religious group or organization, and plays an important part in a society's culture. Personal religion, in which the individual has mystical experience, can be experienced regardless of the culture.\n\nThe origins of the use of this term can be dated further back. In the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, several historical figures put forth very influential views that religion and its beliefs can be grounded in experience itself. While Kant held that moral experience justified religious beliefs, John Wesley in addition to stressing individual moral exertion thought that the religious experiences in the Methodist movement (paralleling the Romantic Movement) were foundational to religious commitment as a way of life.\n\nWayne Proudfoot traces the roots of the notion of \"religious experience\" to the German theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768–1834), who argued that religion is based on a feeling of the infinite. The notion of \"religious experience\" was used by Schleiermacher and Albert Ritschl to defend religion against the growing scientific and secular critique, and defend the view that human (moral and religious) experience justifies religious beliefs.\n\nThe notion of \"religious experience\" was adopted by many scholars of religion, of which William James was the most influential.\n\nA broad range of western and eastern movements have incorporated and influenced the emergence of the modern notion of \"mystical experience\", such as the Perennial philosophy, Transcendentalism, Universalism, the Theosophical Society, New Thought, Neo-Vedanta and Buddhist modernism.\n\nAccording to the Perennial philosophy, the mystical experiences in all religions are essentially the same. It supposes that many, if not all of the world's great religions, have arisen around the teachings of mystics, including Buddha, Jesus, Lao Tze, and Krishna. It also sees most religious traditions describing fundamental mystical experience, at least esoterically. A major proponent in the 20th century was Aldous Huxley, who \"was heavily influenced in his description by Vivekananda's neo-Vedanta and the idiosyncratic version of Zen exported to the west by D.T. Suzuki. Both of these thinkers expounded their versions of the perennialist thesis\", which they originally received from western thinkers and theologians.\n\nTranscendentalism was an early 19th-century liberal Protestant movement, which was rooted in English and German Romanticism, the Biblical criticism of Herder and Schleiermacher, and the skepticism of Hume. The Transcendentalists emphasised an intuitive, experiential approach of religion. Following Schleiermacher, an individual's intuition of truth was taken as the criterion for truth. In the late 18th and early 19th century, the first translations of Hindu texts appeared, which were also read by the Transcendentalists, and influenced their thinking. They also endorsed universalist and Unitarianist ideas, leading to Unitarian Universalism, the idea that there must be truth in other religions as well, since a loving God would redeem all living beings, not just Christians.\n\nNew Thought promotes the ideas that \"Infinite Intelligence\", or God, is everywhere, spirit is the totality of real things, true human selfhood is divine, divine thought is a force for good, sickness originates in the mind, and \"right thinking\" has a healing effect. New Thought was propelled along by a number of spiritual thinkers and philosophers and emerged through a variety of religious denominations and churches, particularly the Unity Church, Religious Science, and Church of Divine Science. The Home of Truth, which belongs to the New Thought movement has, from its inception as the Pacific Coast Metaphysical Bureau in the 1880s, disseminated the teachings of the Hindu teacher Swami Vivekananda.\n\nThe Theosophical Society was formed in 1875 by Helena Blavatsky, Henry Steel Olcott, William Quan Judge and others to advance the spiritual principles and search for Truth known as Theosophy. The Theosophical Society has been highly influential in promoting interest, both in west and east, in a great variety of religious teachings:\nThe Theosophical Society searched for 'secret teachings' in Asian religions. It has been influential on modernist streams in several Asian religions, notably Hindu reform movements, the revival of Theravada Buddhism, and D.T. Suzuki, who popularized the idea of enlightenment as insight into a timeless, transcendent reality. Another example can be seen in Paul Brunton's \"A Search in Secret India\", which introduced Ramana Maharshi to a western audience.\n\nThe interplay between western and eastern notions of religion is an important factor in the development of modern mysticism. In the 19th century, when Asian countries were colonialised by western states, a process of cultural mimesis began. In this process, Western ideas about religion, especially the notion of \"religious experience\" were introduced to Asian countries by missionaries, scholars and the Theosophical Society, and amalgamated in a new understanding of the Indian and Buddhist traditions. This amalgam was exported back to the West as 'authentic Asian traditions', and acquired a great popularity in the west. Due to this western popularity, it also gained authority back in India, Sri Lanka and Japan.\n\nThe best-known representatives of this amalgamated tradition are Annie Besant (Theosophical Society), Swami Vivekenanda and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan (Neo-Vedanta), Anagarika Dharmapala, a 19th-century Sri Lankan Buddhist activist who founded the Maha Bodhi Society, and D.T. Suzuki, a Japanese scholar and Zen-Buddhist. A synonymous term for this broad understanding is nondualism. This mutual influence is also known as the pizza effect.\n\nThe notion of \"experience\" has been criticised.\n\n\"Religious empiricism\" is seen as highly problematic and was – during the period in-between world wars – famously rejected by Karl Barth. In the 20th century, religious as well as moral experience as justification for religious beliefs still holds sway. Some influential modern scholars holding this liberal theological view are Charles Raven and the Oxford physicist/theologian Charles Coulson.\n\nRobert Sharf points out that \"experience\" is a typical Western term, which has found its way into Asian religiosity via western influences. The notion of \"experience\" introduces a false notion of duality between \"experiencer\" and \"experienced\", whereas the essence of kensho is the realisation of the \"non-duality\" of observer and observed. \"Pure experience\" does not exist; all experience is mediated by intellectual and cognitive activity. The specific teachings and practices of a specific tradition may even determine what \"experience\" someone has, which means that this \"experience\" is not the \"proof\" of the teaching, but a \"result\" of the teaching. A pure consciousness without concepts, reached by \"cleansing the doors of perception\", would be an overwhelming chaos of sensory input without coherence.\n\nReligious practices: traditions offer a wide variety of religious practices to induce religious experiences:\n\nDrugs: religious experiences may also be caused by the use of entheogens, such as:\n\nNeurophysiological origins: Religious experiences may have neurophysiological origins. These are studied in the field of neurotheology, and the cognitive science of religion, and include near-death experience and the \"Koren helmet\" Causes may be:\n\nNeoplatonism is the modern term for a school of religious and mystical philosophy that took shape in the 3rd century AD, founded by Plotinus and based on the teachings of Plato and earlier Platonists.\n\nNeoplatonism teaches that along the same road by which it descended the soul must retrace its steps back to the supreme Good. It must first of all return to itself. This is accomplished by the practice of virtue, which aims at likeness to God, and leads up to God. By means of ascetic observances the human becomes once more a spiritual and enduring being, free from all sin. But there is still a higher attainment; it is not enough to be sinless, one must become \"God\", (\"henosis\"). This is reached through contemplation of the primeval Being, the One – in other words, through an ecstatic approach to it.\n\nIt is only in a state of perfect passivity and repose that the soul can recognize and touch the primeval Being. Hence the soul must first pass through a spiritual curriculum. Beginning with the contemplation of corporeal things in their multiplicity and harmony, it then retires upon itself and withdraws into the depths of its own being, rising thence to the \"nous\", the world of ideas. But even there it does not find the Highest, the One; it still hears a voice saying, \"not we have made ourselves.\" The last stage is reached when, in the highest tension and concentration, beholding in silence and utter forgetfulness of all things, it is able as it were to lose itself. Then it may see God, the foundation of life, the source of being, the origin of all good, the root of the soul. In that moment it enjoys the highest indescribable bliss; it is as it were swallowed up of divinity, bathed in the light of eternity. Porphyry tells us that on four occasions during the six years of their intercourse Plotinus attained to this ecstatic union with God.\n\nThe twelfth step of the Alcoholics Anonymous program states that \"Having had a spiritual awakening as the result of these steps, we tried to carry this message to alcoholics and to practice these principles in all our affairs\". The terms “spiritual experience” and “spiritual awaken-ing” are used many times in \"The Big Book of Alcoholics Anonymous\" which argues that a spiritual experience is needed to bring about recovery from alcoholism.\n\nChristian doctrine generally maintains that God dwells in all Christians and that they can experience God directly through belief in Jesus, Christian mysticism aspires to apprehend spiritual truths inaccessible through intellectual means, typically by emulation of Christ. William Inge divides this \"scala perfectionis\" into three stages: the \"\"purgative\" or ascetic stage, the \"illuminative\" or contemplative stage, and the third, \"unitive\"\" stage, in which God may be beheld \"face to face.\"\n\nThe third stage, usually called contemplation in the Western tradition, refers to the experience of oneself as united with God in some way. The experience of union varies, but it is first and foremost always associated with a reuniting with Divine \"love.\" The underlying theme here is that God, the perfect goodness, is known or experienced at least as much by the heart as by the intellect since, in the words of 1 John 4:16: \"God is love, and he who abides in love abides in God and God in him.\" Some approaches to classical mysticism would consider the first two phases as preparatory to the third, explicitly mystical experience; but others state that these three phases overlap and intertwine.\n\nBased on Christ's injunction in the Gospel of Matthew to \"go into your closet to pray\", hesychasm in tradition has been the process of retiring inward by ceasing to register the senses, in order to achieve an experiential knowledge of God (see theoria).\n\nThe highest goal of the hesychast is the experiential knowledge of God. In the 14th Century, the possibility of this experiential knowledge of God was challenged by a Calabrian monk, Barlaam, who, although he was formally a member of the Orthodox Church, had been trained in Western Scholastic theology. Barlaam asserted that our knowledge of God can only be propositional. The practice of the hesychasts was defended by St. Gregory Palamas.\n\nWhile all Muslims believe that they are on the pathway to God and will become close to God in Paradise – after death and after the \"Final Judgment\" – Sufis believe that it is possible to become close to God and to experience this closeness while one is alive.\nSufis believe in a tripartite way to God as explained by a tradition attributed to the Prophet,\"The Shariah are my words (aqwal), the tariqa are my actions (amal), and the haqiqa is my interior states (ahwal)\". Shariah, tariqa and haqiqa are mutually interdependent.\n\nThe tariqa, the ‘path’ on which the mystics walk, has been defined as ‘the path which comes out of the Shariah, for the main road is called shar, the path, tariq.’ No mystical experience can be realized if the binding injunctions of the Shariah are not followed faithfully first. The path, tariqa, however, is narrower and more difficult to walk. It leads the adept, called salik (wayfarer), in his suluk (wandering), through different stations (maqam) until he reaches his goal, the perfect tauhid, the existential confession that God is One.\n\nIn Theravada Buddhism practice is described in the threefold training of discipline (\"śīla\"), meditative concentration (\"samādhi\"), and transcendent wisdom (\"prajñā\"). Zen-Buddhism emphaises the sole practice of meditation, while Vajrayana Buddhism utilizes a wide variety of practices. While the main aim of meditation and \"prajna\" is to let go of attachments, it may also result in a comprehension of the Buddha-nature and the inherent lucidness of the mind.\n\nDifferent varieties of religious experience are described in detail in the \"Śūraṅgama Sūtra\". In its section on the fifty skandha-maras, each of the five skandhas has ten skandha-maras associated with it, and each skandha-mara is described in detail as a deviation from correct samādhi. These skandha-maras are also known as the \"fifty skandha demons\" in some English-language publications.\n\nIt is also believed that supernormal abilities are developed from meditation, which are termed \"higher knowledge\" (\"abhijñā\"), or \"spiritual power\" (\"ṛddhi\"). One early description found in the \"Samyutta Nikaya\", which mentions abilities such as:\nBuilding on European philosophers, Radhakrishnan reduced religion \"to the core experience of reality in its fundamental unity\".\n\nAccording to the syncretistic Indian spiritual teacher Meher Baba, \"Spiritual experience involves more than can be grasped by mere intellect. This is often emphasised by calling it a mystical experience. Mysticism is often regarded as something anti-intellectual, obscure and confused, or impractical and unconnected with experience. In fact, true mysticism is none of these. There is nothing irrational in true mysticism when it is, as it should be, a vision of Reality. It is a form of perception which is absolutely unclouded, and so practical that it can be lived every moment of life and expressed in every-day duties. Its connection with experience is so deep that, in one sense, it is the final understanding of all experience.\"\n\nDr. R.R. Griffiths and colleagues at Johns Hopkins University had done a double blind study evaluating the psychological effects of psilocybin comparing with methylphenidate(Ritalin). 36 hallucinogen-naive adults were recruited. 22 of the 36 reported mystical experience. The effect persisted even at 2 and 14 months follow-up. The group continued to do studies in evaluating the effect with different dosing and the resulting mystical effect on personality.\n\nA 2012 paper suggested that psychiatric conditions associated with psychotic spectrum symptoms may be possible explanations for revelatory driven experiences and activities such as those of Abraham, Moses, Jesus and Saint Paul.\n\nNeuroscience of religion, also known as \"neurotheology\", \"biotheology\" or \"spiritual neuroscience\", is the study of correlations of neural phenomena with subjective experiences of spirituality and hypotheses to explain these phenomena. Proponents of neurotheology claim that there is a neurological and evolutionary basis for subjective experiences traditionally categorized as spiritual or religious.\n\nThe neuroscience of religion takes neural correlates as the basis of cognitive functions and religious experiences. These religious experience are thereby emergent properties of neural correlates. This approach does not necessitate exclusion of the Self, but interprets the Self as influenced or otherwise acted upon by underlying neural mechanisms. Proponents argue that religious experience can be evoked through stimulus of specific brain regions and/or can be observed through measuring increase in activity of specific brain regions.\n\nAn alternate approach is influenced by personalism, and exists contra-parallel to the reductionist approach. It focuses on the Self as the object of interest, the same object of interest as in religion. According to Patrick McNamara, a proponent of personalism, the Self is a neural entity that controls rather than consists of the cognitive functions being processed in brain regions.\n\nA biological basis for religious experience may exist. References to the supernatural or mythical beings first appeared approximately 40,000 years ago. A popular theory posits that dopaminergic brain systems are the evolutionary basis for human intellect and more specifically abstract reasoning. The capacity for religious thought arises from the capability to employ abstract reasoning. There is no evidence to support the theory that abstract reasoning, generally or with regard to religious thought, evolved independent of the dopaminergic axis.\n\nReligious behavior has been linked to \"extrapersonal brain systems that predominate the ventromedial cortex and rely heavily on dopaminergic transmission.\" A biphasic effect exists with regard to activation of the dopaminergic axis and/or ventromedial cortex. While mild activation can evoke a perceived understanding of the supernatural, extreme activation can lead to delusions characteristic of psychosis. Stress can cause the depletion of 5-hydroxytryptamine, also referred to as serotonin. The ventromedial 5-HT axis is involved in peripersonal activities such as emotional arousal, social skills, and visual feedback. When 5-HT is decreased or depleted, one may become subject to \"incorrect attributions of self-initiated or internally generated activity (e.g. hallucinations).\"\n\nEarly studies in the 1950s and 1960s attempted to use EEGs to study brain wave patterns correlated with spiritual states. During the 1980s Dr. Michael Persinger stimulated the temporal lobes of human subjects with a weak magnetic field. His subjects claimed to have a sensation of \"an ethereal presence in the room.\" Some current studies use neuroimaging to localize brain regions active, or differentially active, during religious experiences. These neuroimaging studies have implicated a number of brain regions, including the limbic system, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, superior parietal lobe, and caudate nucleus. Based on the complex nature of religious experience, it is likely that they are mediated by an interaction of neural mechanisms that all add a small piece to the overall experience.\n\nAccording to the neurotheologist Andrew B. Newberg, neurological processes which are driven by the repetitive, rhythmic stimulation which is typical of human ritual, and which contribute to the delivery of transcendental feelings of connection to a universal unity. They posit, however, that physical stimulation alone is not sufficient to generate transcendental unitive experiences. For this to occur they say there must be a blending of the rhythmic stimulation with ideas. Once this occurs \"...ritual turns a meaningful idea into a visceral experience.\" Moreover, they say that humans are compelled to act out myths by the biological operations of the brain due to what they call the \"inbuilt tendency of the brain to turn thoughts into actions.\"\n\nTemporal lobe epilepsy has become a popular field of study due to its correlation to religious experience. Religious experiences and hyperreligiosity are often used to characterize those with Temporal Lobe Epilepsy. Visionary religious experiences, and momentary lapses of consciousness, may point toward a diagnosis of Geschwind syndrome. More generally, the symptoms are consistent with features of Temporal Lobe Epilepsy, not an uncommon feature in religious icons and mystics. It seems that this phenomenon is not exclusive to TLE, but can manifest in the presence of other epileptic variates as well as mania, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and schizophrenia, conditions characterized by ventromedial dopaminergic dysfunction.\n\nSeveral psychologists have proposed models in which religious experiences are part of a process of transformation of the self.\n\nCarl Jung's work on himself and his patients convinced him that life has a spiritual purpose beyond material goals. One's main task, he believed, is to discover and fulfil deep innate potential, much as the acorn contains the potential to become the oak, or the caterpillar to become the butterfly. Based on his study of Christianity, Hinduism, Buddhism, Gnosticism, Taoism, and other traditions, Jung perceived that this journey of transformation is at the mystical heart of all religions. It is a journey to meet the self and at the same time to meet the Divine. Unlike Sigmund Freud, Jung thought spiritual experience was essential to well-being.\n\nThe notion of the numinous was an important concept in the writings of Carl Jung. Jung regarded numinous experiences as fundamental to an understanding of the individuation process because of their association with experiences of synchronicity in which the presence of archetypes is felt.\n\nMcNamara proposes that religious experiences may help in \"decentering\" the self, and transform it into an integral self which is closer to an ideal self.\n\nTranspersonal psychology is a school of psychology that studies the transpersonal, self-transcendent or spiritual aspects of the human experience. The \"Journal of Transpersonal Psychology\" describes transpersonal psychology as \"the study of humanity’s highest potential, and with the recognition, understanding, and realization of unitive, spiritual, and transcendent states of consciousness\" (Lajoie and Shapiro, 1992:91). Issues considered in transpersonal psychology include spiritual self-development, peak experiences, mystical experiences, systemic trance and other metaphysical experiences of living.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3209707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3209707", "title": "Stanisław Brzozowski (writer)", "text": "Stanisław Brzozowski (writer)\n\nStanisław Brzozowski (28 June 1878 – 30 April 1911) was a Polish philosopher, writer, publicist, literary and theatre critic. Historically considered to be one of the most important Polish philosophers, Brzozowski is known for his concept of the \"philosophy of labour\", rooted in Marxism. Besides Karl Marx, among his major inspirations were Georges Sorel, Friedrich Nietzsche, Henri Bergson, Thomas Carlyle, and John Henry Newman. Brzozowski's core idea was based on the concept of a socially engaged intellectual (artist). Although he was in favour of historical materialism, he strongly argued against its deterministic interpretation. In his philosophical approaches, Brzozowski rejected all concepts that were commodifying a human being.\n\nPolish intellectuals (Czesław Miłosz, Andrzej Walicki, Leszek Kołakowski) have stressed that Brzozowski's interpretations of Marx's early writings, not widely known at the time of their formulation, largely anticipated those presented later by György Lukács and Antonio Gramsci.\n\nLeopold Stanisław Leon Brzozowski was born in 1878 in Maziarnia, a village near Chełm. He grew up in an impoverished gentry family, but attended private schools, which allowed him to enroll in the Faculty of Natural Sciences of the University of Warsaw in 1896. In 1897 Brzozowski was involved in student riots against Russian professors teaching at the university. As a consequence, Brzozowski and many other students were expelled from the university for a period of one year. Brzozowski then led the student organization \"Bratniak\", established to maintain financial support for the expelled students. In order to help his father, who suffered from a fatal illness, Brzozowski decided to use the organization's funds. Although he had promised himself to give the money back as soon as possible, his embezzlement was discovered. The arbitration panel of the fellow members excluded Brzozowski from the activities of the organization for three years. In the same year (1898), he was imprisoned as a result of investigations into the secret activities of the Society for People's Education.\n\nBeginning in the autumn of 1898, Brzozowski suffered heavily from tuberculosis, a consequence of the time spent in prison. In order to recuperate, he went to a sanatorium in Otwock. In 1900 he met there Antonina Kolberg and they married the next year. In 1903 Brzozowski's only child, Anna Irena, was born. The health problems continued, and in order to receive more intensive medical care, in 1905 he traveled to Italy. In 1906 he went to Italy again and resided in Florence until his death there in 1911. The last few years of Brzozowski's life, although spent in gradually worsening health and material conditions, were the most productive. During that time he wrote his \"opus magnum\" – the novel \"Płomienie\" (The Flames) – a response to \"Demons\" by Fyodor Dostoyevsky, as well as important books concerning Brzozowski's philosophical and cultural program: \"Idee. Wstęp do filozofii dojrzałości dziejowej\" (Ideas: An introduction to the philosophy of historical maturity) and \"Legenda Młodej Polski\" (The legend of Young Poland).\n\nBrzozowski was an influential critic of Polish social and philosophical thought, an analyst of literature, and a piercing observer of Polish and European everyday life. He was an unambiguous critic of the traditionalism and provincialism of the main currents of 19th century Polish literature. In particular, Brzozowski was a strong opponent of historical novels, such as those written by the Nobel Prize winner Henryk Sienkiewicz. Brzozowski's radical attacks on Sienkiewicz's works made him a \"persona non grata\" in Polish artistic circles.\n\nBrzozowski held a unique position as an astute critic of Polish contemporary culture, known as Young Poland (Polish modernism) or neo-romanticism. His \"Legenda Młodej Polski\" represents the most comprehensive denunciation of those forms of the Polish mind, which, in Brzozowski's words, represent \"the delusion of cultural consciousness.\"\n\nConcerning his philosophical heritage, Brzozowski tended to experience rather radical shifts in his world-view as a result of subsequent readings. His first important philosophical inspiration was Friedrich Nietzsche and his notion of \"historical sense,\" which Brzozowski found particularly valuable. After focusing on Nietzsche, Brzozowski moved closer towards Immanuel Kant, which eventually enabled him to develop his philosophy on the Marxist basis. Besides providing many vital inspirations, Marxism played a central role in Brzozowski's intellectual development, and for the longest period of his short life he was a Marxist thinker. His interpretation of Karl Marx's thought was anti-naturalist and anti-positivist. Brzozowski was an ardent critic of Friedrich Engels and his role in developing Marxist thought. He accused Engels of 'vulgar determinism' and leading Marxism towards naive and reductionist perspective of 'economic necessity'. Finally, he developed his own philosophical program called the \"philosophy of labour\" that emphasized the role of human activity in creating and re-creating the reality. This was a concept rejecting reification and alienation of human acts and, according to Brzozowski, was the natural expansion of key Marxist ideas.\n\nIn his philosophy Brzozowski focused on subjective factors of work: on the quality of human will and on cohesion and strength of the live social bond determining this quality. He thought that the examination of work from the perspective of experience acquired in the process of its performance, or its \"internal\" analysis, made it possible to prove that the ultimate basis of work and its products arising in human awareness as the \"objectively\" given world, was subjective physical effort, maintained by the strength of human will. This effort, in its appropriate level and progress, depends on other forms of labor, creating proper organization and culture of societies; work, its quality, its amount, is a subtle creation of will, maintained by entire cultures, which in turn is a very subtle and complicated creation.\n\nBrzozowski reaches the conclusion that an essential condition of the discipline of will is a strong, traditional moral bond. This results in recognizing religion as a valuable school of will and a precious element of intense social bond. The essence of work is therefore the inner life of a human being, spirituality, “willingness to work”, although it is strongly rooted in customs, in culture. This emphasis on roots indicates that community is of crucial importance for the continuity of work.\n\nStanisław Brzozowski has an established position as one of the most important intellectuals in modern Polish history. His cultural and philosophical activity has been regularly debated throughout the last century in Poland. He became the point of reference for subsequent generations of Polish intellectuals. Although identified mainly with the political left, the subtlety and open-endedness of his thought allowed some groups from the right to identify themselves with Brzozowski's ideas as well.\n\nSince 2002, Brzozowski has been the patron of \"Krytyka Polityczna\" (Political Critique), a Polish left-wing intellectual society organized around a journal of the same title founded by Sławomir Sierakowski in 2002. In 2005, the Stanisław Brzozowski Association was established and became the publisher of the journal and the on-line publication \"Dziennik Opinii\" (Opinion Daily). The association's core idea resembles that of its patron: that intellectuals are public figures who ought to live a socially involved and committed life.\n\n"}
{"id": "1030561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1030561", "title": "Stanley Meyer's water fuel cell", "text": "Stanley Meyer's water fuel cell\n\nThe water fuel cell is a technical design of a \"perpetual motion machine\" created by American Stanley Allen Meyer (August 24, 1940 – March 20, 1998). Meyer claimed that an automobile retrofitted with the device could use water as fuel instead of gasoline. Meyer's claims about his \"Water Fuel Cell\" and the car that it powered were found to be fraudulent by an Ohio court in 1996.\n\nThe water fuel cell purportedly split water into its component elements, hydrogen and oxygen. The hydrogen gas was then burned to generate energy, a process that reconstituted the water molecules. According to Meyer, the device required less energy to perform electrolysis than the minimum energy requirement predicted or measured by conventional science. The mechanism of action was alleged to involve \"Brown's gas\", a mixture of oxyhydrogen with a ratio of 2:1, the same composition as liquid water; which would then be mixed with ambient air (nitrogen, oxygen, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, methane, chloroflourocarbons, free radicals/electrons, radiation, among others). If the device worked as specified, it would violate both the first and second laws of thermodynamics, allowing operation as a perpetual motion machine.\n\nThroughout his patents Meyer used the terms \"fuel cell\" or \"water fuel cell\" to refer to the portion of his device in which electricity is passed through water to produce hydrogen and oxygen. Meyer's use of the term in this sense is contrary to its usual meaning in science and engineering, in which such cells are conventionally called \"electrolytic cells\". Furthermore, the term \"fuel cell\" is usually reserved for cells that produce electricity from a chemical redox reaction, whereas Meyer's fuel cell consumed electricity, as shown in his patents and in the circuit pictured on the right.\nMeyer describes in a 1990 patent the use of a \"water fuel cell assembly\" and portrays some images of his \"fuel cell water capacitor\". According to the patent, in this case \"... the term 'fuel cell' refers to a single unit of the invention comprising a water capacitor cell ... that produces the fuel gas in accordance with the method of the invention.\"\n\nIn a news report on an Ohio TV station, Meyer demonstrated a dune buggy he claimed was powered by his water fuel cell. He estimated that only 22 US gallons (83 liters) of water were required to travel from Los Angeles to New York. Furthermore, Meyer claimed to have replaced the spark plugs with \"injectors\" that introduced a hydrogen/oxygen mixture into the engine cylinders. The water was subjected to an electrical resonance that dissociated it into its basic atomic make-up. The water fuel cell would split the water into hydrogen and oxygen gas, which would then be combusted back into water vapor in a conventional internal combustion engine to produce net energy.\n\nPhilip Ball, writing in academic journal \"Nature\", characterized Meyer's claims as pseudoscience, noting that \"It's not easy to establish how Meyer's car was meant to work, except that it involved a fuel cell that was able to split water using less energy than was released by recombination of the elements ... Crusaders against pseudoscience can rant and rave as much as they like, but in the end they might as well accept that the myth of water as a fuel is never going to go away.\"\n\nTo date, no peer reviewed studies of Meyer's devices have been published in the scientific literature. An article in journal \"Nature\" described Meyer's claims as one more \"water as fuel\" myth.\n\nIn 1996 Meyer was sued by two investors to whom he had sold dealerships, offering the right to do business in Water Fuel Cell technology. His car was due to be examined by the expert witness Michael Laughton, Professor of Electrical Engineering at Queen Mary, University of London and Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering. However, Meyer made what Professor Laughton considered a \"lame excuse\" on the days of examination and did not allow the test to proceed. According to Meyer, the technology was patent pending and under investigation by the patent office, the Department of Energy and the military. His \"water fuel cell\" was later examined by three expert witnesses in court who found that there \"was nothing revolutionary about the cell at all and that it was simply using conventional electrolysis.\" The court found Meyer had committed \"gross and egregious fraud\" and ordered him to repay the two investors their $25,000.\n\nStanley Meyer died suddenly on March 20, 1998, while dining at a restaurant. His brother claimed that during a meeting with two Belgian investors in a restaurant, Meyer suddenly ran outside, saying \"They poisoned me\". After an investigation, the Grove City police went with the Franklin County coroner report that ruled that Meyer, who had high blood pressure, died of a cerebral aneurysm. Some of Meyer's supporters believe that he was assassinated to suppress his inventions.\n\nMeyer's patents have expired. His inventions are now in the public domain, available for all to use without restriction or royalty payment. No engine or vehicle manufacturer has incorporated Meyer's work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12389683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12389683", "title": "Tattva (Shaivism)", "text": "Tattva (Shaivism)\n\nThe tattvas in Indian philosophy are elements or principles of reality. Tattvas are the basic concepts to understand the nature of absolute, the souls and the universe in Samkhya and Shaivite philosophies. Samkhya philosophy lists 25 tattvas while later Shaivite philosophies extend the number to 36.\n\nTattvas are used to explain the structure and origin of the Universe. They are usually divided into three groups: \"śuddha\" (pure tattvas); \"śuddhaśuddha\" (pure-impure tattvas); and \"aśuddha\" (impure tattvas). The pure tattvas describe internal aspects of the Absolute; the pure-impure tattvas describe the soul and its limitations; while the impure tattvas include the universe and living beings that assist the existence of soul.\n\nSamkhya philosophy considers there exist only 25 tattvas - twenty four atma tattvas along with atman or soul.\n\nAccording to later Shaivite philosophies, \"Parashiva\" or Parameshwara is the ultimate Reality or Parabrahman, \"the one form where everything emerges. The nondualistic monism school of Shaivism, Kashmir Shaivism, describes the tattvas as Paramshiva manifests himself by a process of descent from \"Paramashiva\" to \"jiva\", through the 36 \"tattvas\". Spanda, The vibrant creative energy of Parashiva known as Spanda, moves him to manifest himself these 36 tattvas as a \"līlā\" or divine play.\n\nAnother important sect of Shaivism, Shaiva Siddhanta, a monism-cum-dualistic school, describes the tattvas in a different perspective. Passive Parameshwara is activated itself by Suddha Maya or divine grace (Shakti) of him. Like that, the universe, (Prakriti) is activated by ashudda Maya (physical body and all aspects of universe), another aspect of divine grace - Mahamaya. The interaction of Pure Maya and Impure Maya is the Pure - impure Maya where the souls (Pashus) attain knowledge which leads to the existence of whole universe. \n\nMahamaya divides itself into three aspects: Śuddha Maya, Śuddha-aśuddha Maya, and Aśuddha Maya, and causes five, seven, and twenty four tattvas respectively.\n\n\"Suddha tattvas\", also known as Śaiva tattvas are functioning in the absolute level which leads to the Panchakritya (Five acts) - Creation-Maintenance-Destruction-Concealment-Grace of almighty. Suddha tattvas are called pure because they are directly created by Shiva himself.\n\nAlso known as Sakala tattva. One of the two aspects of the omniscient, omnipresent, conscious Absolute. In this essence, the Absolute doesn't consists of any desire (\"icchā\"), action (\"kriyā\") or Knowledge (\"jnāna\") related properties. It is in its pure conscious state.\n\nAnother aspect of the Absolute. Pairing of Śiva-Śakti causes the creation of all the lower tattvas. The paired Śiva-Śakti is omniscience and consistently active. These two properties of Śiva-Śakti are known \"jnāna\" and \"kriyāa\" respectively.\n\nAlso called Sadāśiva tattva or Nāda tattva. This tattva is responsible for the appearance of \"aham\" or self. This tattva is when \"kriyāśakti\" and \"jnānaśakti\" of the Absolute are in equilibrium.\n\nAso known as Bindu tattva. The tattva where the fourth act of \"Panchakritya\" - delusion or concealment happens. Iśvara tattva activates the souls which are concealed by \"pāśa\". \"Idam\", \"this is myself\", i.e., the objectivation of self-awareness is caused by Iśvara tattva.\n\nAlso known as Sadvidyā or Kriyā. Jnānaśakti is more initiative than kriyaśakti in Śuddhavidyā tattva. Here, \"self-ness\" and \"this-ness\" become balanced. The other three acts of Panchakritya - creation, maintenance and destruction are done below suddhavidya.\n\nThese five tattvas are the Absolute which leads to the moksha of souls. Or this five tattvas can be seen as retrogradation of souls from lower state to its higher steps towards liberation.\n\nPure-impure tattvas or Vidya tattvas are described as the \"instruments\" that assist the souls for their liberation. Soul or Atman is considered as \"Purusha tattva\" here, while the final manifestation of almighty is known as \"Maya tattva\". Maya manifests into five more tattvas known as \"kanchukas\" and these six tattvas adjoins the pusursha tattva and thus, produce seven vidya tattvas.\n\nMaya hides the divine nature of created beings as it creates the sense of separateness from the Divine and from each other.\n\n\"Kanchukas\" can be fairly translated as cloaks. They block the subject from recognising the divine nature of the Universe. \n\n Purusha is the soul. It pairs with maya, the final manifestation of god along with five kancukas. These five vidya tattvas are idle in nature. So, Śiva joins with Maya and Śakti joins with three kancukas - Kāla, Niyati,Kalā. Sadasiva joins with purusha and śuddhavidya operates vidya tattva. Raga is operated by Ishvara. The activated purusha with other vidya tattvas cannot exist in universe solely. There comes the assistance of upcoming 24 asuddha tattvas.\n\nImpure tattvas or Atma tattvas are aspects of Universe and physical body.\n\nConsciousness within the limited \"purusha\" forms the \"citta\" made of Intellect (\"buddhi\"), Ego (\"ahamkāra\"), and Mind (\"manas\"), known collectively as the \"antahkarana\", or \"inner organ\". \"Buddhi\" is the first evolute of \"prakṛti\". It represents the capacity of discernment. It evolves into \"ahamkāra\" after \"buddhi\" differentiates a notion of a limited individual self. That external sense of self is then experienced through the sensory mind (\"manas\"). Ten \"indriyas\" (five sense organs and five action organs), five \"tanmātras\" (subtle elements), five \"mahābhūtas\" (gross elements), and the sensory mind evolve from \"ahamkāra\" as it modifies into \"sattvic\" (sensory), \"rajasic\" (active) and \"tamasic\" (material) modes. These 24 lowest tattvas that evolve from individual consciousness are known as the impure tattvas (\"aśuddha\"). \n\nThe five sense organs (\"jñānendriya\") are the most \"sattvic\" functions of manas and include:\n\nThe five motor organs (\"karmendriya\"), each corresponding to a sense organ, represent the physical organs of action. They are the most rajasic functions of manas. \n\n\nThe five subtle elements (\"tanmātra\") are the most tamasic functions of \"manas\" and represent the reflection of the corresponding five gross elements in the mind:\n\n\nThe five gross elements (\"mahābhuta\") represent the final point of manifestation:\n\n\nWhile \"mahābhūtas\" are the basis for the material world, \"tanmātras\" are but limited aspects and views of it, in no way able to fully describe it. We cannot actually perceive the reality, all we can access are limited \"bands\" of information that form a description of reality. These bands of information are the five \"tanmātras\".\n\nThis restriction however applies only to the limited beings (\"jiva\", or \"\"). For one who has gone beyond \"māyā\", in the realm of the \"pure tattvas\", there can be direct perception of reality, because as one's self is Ātman, so are the external objects. In such a state an enlightened being can perceive the world beyond the five senses (direct perception), in a state of diversity in unity and unity in diversity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17101980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17101980", "title": "The Lightning Process", "text": "The Lightning Process\n\nThe Lightning Process (LP) is a three-day personal training programme developed by British osteopath Phil Parker. It claims to be beneficial for various conditions, including chronic fatigue syndrome, depression and chronic pain. The Lightning Process is not recommended by the NHS for the treatment of chronic fatigue syndrome. \n\nDeveloped in the late 1990s, it aims to teach techniques for managing the acute stress response that the body experiences under threat. The course aims to help recognise the stress response, calm it and manage it in the long term. It also applies some ideas drawn from neurolinguistic programming, as well as elements of life coaching. The approach has raised some controversy. It is trademarked.\n\nThe Lightning Process comprises three group sessions conducted on three consecutive days, lasting about 12 hours altogether, conducted by trained practitioners.\n\nAccording to its developer, Phil Parker, the programme aims to teach participants about the acute stress response the body experiences under threat. It aims to help trainees spot when this response is happening and learn how to calm it. Techniques based on movement, postural awareness and personal coaching are intended to modify the production of stress hormones. Participants practise a learnt series of steps to habituate the calming method.\n\nThe rationale for the programme draws on ideas of osteopaths Andrew Taylor Still and J M Littlejohn regarding nervous system dysregulation and addressing clients' needs in a holistic manner rather than focusing solely on symptoms. It also incorporates ideas drawn from neuro-linguistic programming and life coaching. A basic premise is that individuals can influence their own physiological responses in controlled and repeatable ways. Such learnt emotional self-regulation, it is suggested, could help overcome illness and improve well being, if the method is practised consistently.\n\nParker advocates attending the training course in order to gain a full understanding of the tools in a safe and supportive context. He also lays emphasis on the trainee playing an active role in recovery (the course is framed as a fully participatory 'training', not a passive 'treatment' or set of answers given to a 'patient'). He claims that the programme has helped to resolve various conditions including depression, panic attacks, insomnia, drug addictions, chronic pain and multiple sclerosis. The program has also been used with chronic fatigue syndrome.\n\nThere has been criticism of the cost of the three-day course. There has also been criticism of the claimed benefits (see also below). John Greensmith, of the British advocacy group ME Free For All, stated \"We think their claims are extravagant... if patients get better, they claim the success of the treatment — but if they don't, they say the patient is responsible.\"\n\nSome chronic fatigue syndrome patient support groups have strongly objected to the perceived implication that the disease has psychological causes. However, the Lightning Process website states that it is a neuro-physiological approach and that it considers CFS/ME to be a physical illness.\n\nNigel Hawkes writing for the BMJ describes the Lightning Process as being \"secretive about its methods, lacks overall medical supervision, and has a cultish quality because many of the therapists are former sufferers who deliver the programme with great conviction\" and that \"Some children who do not benefit have said that they feel blamed for the failure\".\n\nSome people have claimed rapid cures for longstanding illnesses. Prominent advocates of the process include Esther Rantzen (whose daughter has coeliac disease and chronic fatigue syndrome), British journalist Patrick Strudwick, French dancer Chris Marques, and singer Laura Mvula.\n\nIn 2011 Hampshire Trading Standards requested that the UK Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) give a ruling on the website www.lightningprocess.com, arguing that the information on the site was misleading in four areas. The ASA upheld two of the four challenges. They concluded that although there seemed to be some evidence of participant improvement during trials conducted, the trials were not controlled, the evidence was not sufficient enough to draw robust conclusions, and more investigation was necessary; consequently, the website's claims at the time were deemed misleading.\n\nA registered clinical trial (UK SMILE pilot study) was conducted in England at Bristol University, with results published in 2017. While the results are promising its use is not recommended as of 2017 by the National Health Services in the United Kingdom.\n\nA qualitative study on experiences of the course among a group of young people with chronic fatigue syndrome was published in 2003.\n\nEsther Crawley said that \"I never expected it would work\" and that \"This is an important study as it provides another treatment approach that some may find helpful. However, while these results are promising, further research is needed to establish which aspects of the process are helpful, whether it is an effective treatment on its own, and whether it could be used to help more severely affected patients.\"\n\nResearch into chronic fatigue syndrome is often a target of criticism. The SMILE study received some public criticism for recruiting children when adult subjects are available. The study was approved by the National Research Ethics Service. The paediatrician supervising the study, Esther Crawley, has commented \"If the Lightning Process is dangerous, as they say, we need to find out. They should want to find it out, not prevent research.\"\n\nResults of the study by Crawley were publicized at the Science Media Centre in September 2017; an editorial on its own presentation of the results of the SMILE study stated: \"If you had only read the headlines for the CFS/ME story you may conclude that the treatment tested at Bristol might be worth a try if you are blighted by the illness, when in truth the author said repeatedly that the findings would first have to be replicated in a bigger trial.\" Reactions to their briefing were stronger than expected: \"it was the criticism from within the scientific community that we had not anticipated.\" The briefing invited four psychologists to make comments on the study, who were mild in their reactions, while the commentary on the September 28, 2017 article evoked detailed, well-referenced but anonymous criticisms of the SMILE study and the Lightning Process in the comments section.\n\nDorothy Bishop from Oxford University commented that \"The gains for patients in this study seem solid. However, while the patient allocation and statistical analysis of the trial appear to be done to a high standard, the intervention that was assessed is commercial and associated with a number of warning signs. The Lightning Process appears based on neurolinguistic programming, which has long been recognised as pseudoscience.”\n\n"}
{"id": "37033134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37033134", "title": "The world's 100 most threatened species", "text": "The world's 100 most threatened species\n\nThe World's 100 most threatened species is a compilation of the most threatened animals, plants, and fungi in the world. It was the result of a collaboration between over 8,000 scientists from the International Union for Conservation of Nature Species Survival Commission (IUCN SSC), along with the Zoological Society of London. The report was published by the Zoological Society of London in 2012 as the book, \"Priceless or Worthless?\"\n\nWhile all the species on the list are threatened with extinction, the scientists who chose them had another criterion: all the species have no obvious benefit for humans and therefore have no vested interests trying to save them. Iconic and charismatic species, such as tigers and pandas—along with economically important species—have many defenders, while these apparently \"worthless\" species had none. The title of the report, \"Priceless or Worthless?\", is based on that shared quality of the species. The report's co-author, Ellen Butcher, stated one of the guiding principles of the list, \"If we take immediate action we can give them a fighting chance for survival. But this requires society to support the moral and ethical position that all species have an inherent right to exist.\"\n\nThe report was released in Jeju, South Korea, on September 11, 2012, at the quadrennial meeting of IUCN, the World Conservation Congress. At the Congress, it was reported that scientists are finding it more and more common to have to justify funding for protection of species by showing what the human benefits would be. Jonathan Baillie, of the Zoological Society of London and co-author of the report, stated that, \"The donor community and conservation movement are increasingly leaning towards a 'what can nature do for us?' approach, where species and wild habitats are valued and prioritised according to these services they provided for people. This has made it increasingly difficult for conservationists to protect the most threatened species on the planet.\"\n\nSome of the threatened species are down to only a handful of surviving members. Santa Catarina’s guinea pig, native to a single island in Brazil, is down to its last 40–60 individuals, reduced by hunting and habitat disturbance. The great Indian bustard is threatened by habitat loss resulting from agriculture and human development, and is down to the last 50–249 individuals. \"Elaeocarpus bojeri\", a flowering plant found only on the island of Mauritius, has fewer than 10 surviving individuals, because of loss of habitat. The Baishan fir (\"Abies beshanzuensis\"), native to China, is down to five surviving mature individuals. \"Priceless or Worthless?\" describes the threats that each species is facing, along with measures that would aid their survival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4708379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4708379", "title": "Trikaya", "text": "Trikaya\n\nThe Trikāya doctrine (Sanskrit, literally \"three bodies\"; , ) is a Mahayana Buddhist teaching on both the nature of reality and the nature of Buddhahood.\n\nThe doctrine says that a Buddha has three \"kāyas\" or \"bodies\":\n\nEven before the Buddha's parinirvāṇa, the term \"Dhammakāya\" was current. Dhammakāya literally means \"Truth body\".\n\nIn the Pāli Canon, Gautama Buddha tells Vasettha that the Tathāgata (the Buddha) is the Dhammakāya, the 'Truth-body' or the 'Embodiment of Truth', as well as \"Dhammabhūta\", 'Truth-become', 'One who has become Truth' \n\nThe Buddha is equated with the Dhamma: \"[T]he Buddha comforts him, 'Enough, Vakkali. Why do you want to see this filthy body? Whoever sees the Dhamma sees me; whoever sees me sees the Dhamma.'\"\n\nIn the \"Aggañña Sutta\", the Buddha advises Vasettha that whoever has strong, deep rooted, and established belief in the Tathagatha, he can declare that he is the child of Bhagavan, born from the mouth of Dhamma, created from Dhamma, and the heir of Dhamma. Because the titles of the Tathagatha are: The Body of Dhamma, The Body of Brahma, the Manifestation of Dhamma, and the Manifestation of Brahma.\n\nThe Dharmakāya doctrine was possibly first expounded in the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā\" \"The Perfection of Wisdom In Eight Thousand Verses\", composed in the 1st century BCE.\n\nMahayana Buddhism introduced the Sambhogakāya, which conceptually fits between the Nirmāṇakāya (the manifestations of enlightenment in the physical world) and the Dharmakaya. The Sambhogakaya is that aspect of the Buddha, or the Dharma, that one meets in visions and in deep meditation. It could be considered an interface with the Dharmakaya.\n\nThe Trikaya-doctrine and the Buddha-nature bring the transcendental within reach, by placing the transcendental within the plane of immanence.\n\nAround 300 CE, the Yogacara school systematized the prevalent ideas on the nature of the Buddha in the Trikaya or \"three-body doctrine\".\n\nSchools have different ideas about what the three bodies are.\n\nThe Three Bodies of the Buddha from the point of view of Pure Land Buddhist thought can be broken down like so:\n\n\nAs with earlier Buddhist thought, all three forms of the Buddha teach the same Dharma, but take on different forms to expound the truth.\n\nAccording to Schloegl, in the \"Zhenzhou Linji Huizhao Chansi Yulu\", the Three Bodies of the Buddha are not taken as absolute. They would be \"mental configurations\" that \"are merely names or props\" and would only perform a role of light and shadow of the mind.\n\nThe \"Zhenzhou Linji Huizhao Chansi Yulu\" advises:\n\nVajrayana sometimes refers to a fourth body called the \"svābhāvikakāya\" () \"essential body\", and to a fifth body, called the mahāsūkhakāya (, \"great bliss body\"). The svābhāvikakāya is simply the unity or non-separateness of the three kayas.\n\nThe term is also known in Gelug teachings, where it is one of the assumed two aspects of the dharmakāya: \"svābhāvikakāya\" \"essence body\" and jñānakāya \"body of wisdom\".\n\nHaribhadra claims that the \"Abhisamayalankara\" describes Buddhahood through four kāyas in chapter 8: svābhāvikakāya, [jñāna]dharmakāya, sambhogakāya and nirmāṇakāya.\n\nIn dzogchen teachings, \"dharmakaya\" means the buddha-nature's absence of self-nature, that is, its emptiness of a conceptualizable essence, its cognizance or clarity is the sambhogakaya, and the fact that its capacity is 'suffused with self-existing awareness' is the nirmanakaya.\n\nThe interpretation in Mahamudra is similar: When the mahamudra practices come to fruition, one sees that the mind and all phenomena are fundamentally empty of any identity; this emptiness is called \"dharmakāya\". One perceives that the essence of mind is empty, but that it also has a potentiality that takes the form of luminosity. In Mahamudra thought, Sambhogakāya is understood to be this luminosity. Nirmanakāya is understood to be the powerful force with which the potentiality affects living beings.\n\nIn the view of Anuyoga, the Mind Stream (Sanskrit: \"citta santana\") is the 'continuity' (Sanskrit: \"santana\"; Wylie: \"rgyud\") that links the Trikaya. The Trikāya, as a triune, is symbolised by the Gankyil.\n\nA ḍākinī ( \"khandro[ma]\") is a tantric deity described as a female embodiment of enlightened energy. The Sanskrit term is likely related to the term for drumming, while the Tibetan term means \"sky goer\" and may have originated in the Sanskrit \"khecara\", a term from the \"Cakrasaṃvara Tantra\".\n\nḌākinīs can also be classified according to the trikāya theory. The dharmakāya ḍākinī, which is Samantabhadrī, represents the dharmadhatu where all phenomena appear. The sambhogakāya ḍākinī are the yidams used as meditational deities for tantric practice. The nirmanakaya ḍākinīs are human women born with special potentialities; these are realized yogini, the consorts of the gurus, or even all women in general as they may be classified into the families of the Five Tathagatas.\n\nTheosophy, a Western esoteric school founded in the 19th century, regards Buddhism as containing esoteric teachings. In those supposed esoteric teachings of Buddhism, \"exoteric Buddhism\" believes that Nirmanakaya simple means the physical body of Buddha. According to the esoteric interpretation, when the Buddha dies he assumes the Nirmanakaya, instead of going into Nirvana. He remains in that glorious body he has woven for himself, invisible to uninitiated mankind, to watch over and protect it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12705788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12705788", "title": "Upaya Institute and Zen Center", "text": "Upaya Institute and Zen Center\n\nUpaya Institute and Zen Center is a center for residential Zen practice located in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and founded by Joan Halifax Roshi. The center focuses on integration of Zen practice with social action, with traditional cultivation of wisdom and compassion in the Buddhist sense. It also provides service in the areas of death and dying, prison work, environment, women's rights and peace work. According to the Upaya website, in 2002 Joan Halifax founded the Prajna Mountain Buddhist Order. A non-profit organization, Prajna is, a new Buddhist Order in the lineage of Taizan Maezumi Roshi, the Zen Peacemaker Order and White Plum Asanga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4095924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4095924", "title": "Value (ethics)", "text": "Value (ethics)\n\nIn ethics, value denotes the degree of importance of some thing or action, with the aim of determining what actions are best to do or what way is best to live (normative ethics), or to describe the significance of different actions. Value systems are proscriptive and prescriptive beliefs, they affect ethical behavior of a person or are the basis of their intentional activities. Often primary values are strong and secondary values are suitable for changes, What makes an action valuable may in turn depend on the ethical values of the objects it increases, decreases or alters. An object with \"ethic value\" may be termed an \"ethic or philosophic good\" (noun sense).\n\nValues can be defined as broad preferences concerning appropriate courses of actions or outcomes. As such, values reflect a person's sense of right and wrong or what \"ought\" to be. \"Equal rights for all\", \"Excellence deserves admiration\", and \"People should be treated with respect and dignity\" are representatives of values. Values tend to influence attitudes and behavior and these types include ethical/moral values, doctrinal/ideological (religious, political) values, social values, and aesthetic values. It is debated whether some values that are not clearly physiologically determined, such as altruism, are intrinsic, and whether some, such as acquisitiveness, should be classified as vices or virtues.\n\nEthical value may be regarded as a study under ethics, which, in turn, may be grouped as philosophy. Similarly, \"ethical value\" may be regarded as a subgroup of a broader field of philosophic value sometimes referred to as axiology. Ethical value denotes something's degree of importance, with the aim of determining what action or life is best to do, or at least attempt to describe the value of different actions. \n\nThe study of ethical value is also included in value theory. In addition, values have been studied in various disciplines: anthropology, behavioral economics, business ethics, corporate governance, moral philosophy, political sciences, social psychology, sociology and theology.\n\n\"Ethical value\" is sometimes used synonymously with goodness. However, goodness has many other meanings and may be regarded as more ambiguous.\n\nPersonal values exist in relation to cultural values, either in agreement with or divergence from prevailing norms. A culture is a social system that shares a set of common values, in which such values permit social expectations and collective understandings of the good, beautiful and constructive. Without normative personal values, there would be no cultural reference against which to measure the virtue of individual values and so cultural identity would disintegrate.\n\nPersonal values provide an internal reference for what is good, beneficial, important, useful, beautiful, desirable and constructive. Values are one of the factors that generate behaviour and influence the choices made by an individual.\n\nValues may help common human problems for survival by comparative rankings of value, the results of which provide answers to questions of why people do what they do and in what order they choose to do them. Moral, religious, and personal values, when held rigidly, may also give rise to conflicts that result from a clash between differing world views.\n\nOver time the public expression of personal values that groups of people find important in their day-to-day lives, lay the foundations of law, custom and tradition. Recent research has thereby stressed the \"implicit nature of value communication\". Consumer behavior research proposes there are six internal values and three external values. They are known as List of Values (LOV) in management studies. They are self respect, warm relationships, sense of accomplishment, self-fulfillment, fun and enjoyment, excitement, sense of belonging, being well respected, and security. From a functional aspect these values are categorized into three and they are interpersonal relationship area, personal factors, and non-personal factors. From an ethnocentric perspective, it could be assumed that a same set of values will not reflect equally between two groups of people from two countries. Though the core values are related, the processing of values can differ based on the cultural identity of an individual.\n\nIndividual cultures emphasize values which their members broadly share. Values of a society can often be identified by examining the level of honor and respect received by various groups and ideas. In the United States of America, for example, top-level professional athletes receive more respect (measured in terms of monetary payment) than university professors. Another example is that certain voters (taken from surveys) in the United States would not willingly elect an atheist as president, suggesting that believing in a God is a generally shared value.\n\nValues clarification differs from cognitive moral education:\n\nValues relate to the norms of a culture, but they are more global and intellectual than norms. Norms provide rules for behavior in specific situations, while values identify what should be judged as good or evil. While norms are standards, patterns, rules and guides of expected behavior, values are abstract concepts of what is important and worthwhile. Flying the national flag on a holiday is a norm, but it reflects the value of patriotism. Wearing dark clothing and appearing solemn are normative behaviors to manifest respect at a funeral. Different cultures represent values differently and to different levels of emphasis. \"Over the last three decades, traditional-age college students have shown an increased interest in personal well-being and a decreased interest in the welfare of others.\" Values seemed to have changed, affecting the beliefs, and attitudes of the students.\n\nMembers take part in a culture even if each member's personal values do not entirely agree with some of the normative values sanctioned in that culture. This reflects an individual's ability to synthesize and extract aspects valuable to them from the multiple subcultures they belong to.\n\nIf a group member expresses a value that seriously conflicts with the group's norms, the group's authority may carry out various ways of encouraging conformity or stigmatizing the non-conforming behavior of that member. For example, imprisonment can result from conflict with social norms that the state has established as law.\n\nFurthermore, institutions in the global economy can genuinely respect values which are of three kinds based on a \"triangle of coherence\". In the first instance, a value may come to expression within the World Trade Organization (WTO), as well as (in the second instance) within the United Nations – particularly in the Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) – providing a framework for global legitimacy through accountability. In the third instance, the expertise of member-driven international organizations and civil society depends on the incorporation of flexibility in the rules, to preserve the expression of identity in a globalized world..\n\nNonetheless, in warlike economic competition, differing views may contradict each other, particularly in the field of culture. Thus audiences in Europe may regard a movie as an artistic creation and grant it benefits from special treatment, while audiences in the United States may see it as mere entertainment, whatever its artistic merits. EU policies based on the notion of \"cultural exception\" can become juxtaposed with the policy of \"cultural specificity\" on the liberal Anglo-Saxon side. Indeed, international law traditionally treats films as property and the content of television programs as a service. Consequently, cultural interventionist policies can find themselves opposed to the Anglo-Saxon liberal position, causing failures in international negotiations.\n\nValues are generally received through cultural means, especially diffusion and transmission or socialization from parents to children. Parents in different cultures have different values. For example, parents in a hunter–gatherer society or surviving through subsistence agriculture value practical survival skills from a young age. Many such cultures begin teaching babies to use sharp tools, including knives, before their first birthdays. Italian parents value social and emotional abilities and having an even temperament. Spanish parents want their children to be sociable. Swedish parents value security and happiness. Dutch parents value independence, long attention spans, and predictable schedules. American parents are unusual for strongly valuing intellectual ability, especially in a narrow \"book learning\" sense. The Kipsigis people of Kenya value children who are not only smart, but who employ that intelligence in a responsible and helpful way, which they call \"ng'om\". Luos of Kenya value education and pride which they call \"nyadhi\".\n\nFactors that influence the development of cultural values are summarized below.\n\nThe Inglehart–Welzel cultural map of the world is a two-dimensional cultural map showing the cultural values of the countries of the world along two dimensions: The \"traditional versus secular-rational values\" reflect the transition from a religious understanding of the world to a dominance of science and bureaucracy. The second dimension named \"survival values versus self-expression values\" represents the transition from industrial society to post-industrial society.\n\nCultures can be distinguished as tight and loose in relation to how much they adhere to social norms and tolerates deviance. Tight cultures are more restrictive, with stricter disciplinary measures for norm violations while loose cultures have weaker social norms and a higher tolerance for deviant behavior. A history of threats, such as natural disasters, high population density, or vulnerability to infectious diseases, is associated with greater tightness. It has been suggested that tightness allows cultures to coordinate more effectively to survive threats. \n\nStudies in evolutionary psychology have led to similar findings. The so-called regality theory finds that war and other perceived collective dangers have a profound influence on both the psychology of individuals and on the social structure and cultural values. A dangerous environment leads to a hierarchical, authoritarian, and warlike culture, while a safe and peaceful environment fosters an egalitarian and tolerant culture.\n\nRelative values differ between people, and on a larger scale, between people of different cultures. On the other hand, there are theories of the existence of \"absolute values\", which can also be termed \"noumenal values\" (and not to be confused with mathematical absolute value). An absolute value can be described as philosophically absolute and independent of individual and cultural views, as well as independent of whether it is known or apprehended or not. Ludwig Wittgenstein was pessimistic towards the idea that an elucidation would ever happen regarding the absolute values of actions or objects; \"\"we can speak as much as we want about \"life\" and \"its meaning,\" and believe that what we say is important. But these are no more than expressions and can never be facts, resulting from a tendency of the mind and not the heart or the will\".\n\nPhilosophic value may be split into \"instrumental value\" and \"intrinsic values\". An instrumental value is worth having as a means towards getting something else that is good (e.g., a radio is instrumentally good in order to hear music). An intrinsically valuable thing is worth for itself, not as a means to something else. It is giving value intrinsic and extrinsic properties.\n\nAn \"ethic good\" with \"instrumental value\" may be termed an ethic mean, and an \"ethic good\" with \"intrinsic value\" may be termed an end-in-itself. An object may be both a mean and end-in-itself.\n\nIntrinsic and instrumental goods are not mutually exclusive categories. Some objects are both good in themselves, and also good for getting other objects that are good. \"Understanding science\" may be such a good, being both worthwhile in and of itself, and as a means of achieving other goods. In these cases, the sum of instrumental (specifically the all instrumental value) and intrinsic value of an object may be used when putting that object in value systems, which is a set of consistent values and measures.\n\nThe \"intensity\" of philosophic value is the degree it is generated or carried out, and may be regarded as the prevalence of the good, the object having the value.\n\nIt should not be confused with the amount of value per object, although the latter may vary too, e.g. because of instrumental value conditionality. For example, taking a fictional life-stance of accepting waffle-eating as being the end-in-itself, the intensity may be the speed that waffles are eaten, and is zero when no waffles are eaten, e.g. if no waffles are present. Still, each waffle that had been present would still have value, no matter if it was being eaten or not, independent on intensity.\n\n\"Instrumental value conditionality\" in this case could be exampled by every waffle not present, making them less valued by being far away rather than easily accessible.\n\nIn many life stances it is the product of value and intensity that is ultimately desirable, i.e. not only to generate value, but to generate it in large degree. Maximizing lifestances have the highest possible intensity as an imperative.\n\nThere may be a distinction between positive and negative philosophic or ethic value. While positive ethic value generally correlates with something that is pursued or maximized, negative ethic value correlates with something that is avoided or minimized.\n\nNegative value may be both intrinsic negative value and/or instrumental negative value.\n\nA \"protected value\" (also sacred value) is one that an individual is unwilling to trade off no matter what the benefits of doing so may be. For example, some people may be unwilling to kill another person, even if it means saving many others individuals. Protected values tend to be \"intrinsically good\", and most people can in fact imagine a scenario when trading off their most precious values would be necessary. If such trade-offs happen between two competing protected values such as killing a person and defending your family they are called \"tragic trade-offs.\"\n\nProtected values have been found to be play a role in protracted conflicts (e.g., the Israeli-Palestinian conflict) because they can hinder businesslike (<nowiki>\"utilitarian\"</nowiki>) negotiations. A series of experimental studies directed by Scott Atran and Ángel Gómez among combatants on the ISIS frontline in Iraq and with ordinary citizens in Western Europe suggest that commitment to sacred values motivate the most \"devoted actors\" to make the costliest sacrifices, including willingness to fight and die, as well as a readiness to forsake close kin and comrades for those values if necessary. From the perspective of utilitarianism, protected values are biases when they prevent utility from being maximized across individuals.\n\nAccording to Jonathan Baron and Mark Spranca, protected values arise from norms as described in theories of deontological ethics (the latter often being referred to in context with Immanuel Kant). The protectedness implies that people are concerned with their participation in transactions rather than just the consequences of it.\n\nA \"value system\" is a set of consistent values used for the purpose of ethical or ideological integrity.\n\nAs a member of a society, group or community, an individual can hold both a personal value system and a communal value system at the same time. In this case, the two value systems (one personal and one communal) are externally consistent provided they bear no contradictions or situational exceptions between them.\n\nA value system in its own right is internally consistent when\n\nConversely, a value system by itself is internally inconsistent if:\n\nAbstract exceptions serve to reinforce the ranking of values. Their definitions are generalized enough to be relevant to any and all situations. Situational exceptions, on the other hand, are ad hoc and pertain only to specific situations. The presence of a type of exception determines one of two more kinds of value systems:\n\nThe difference between these two types of systems can be seen when people state that they hold one value system yet in practice deviate from it, thus holding a different value system. For example, a religion lists an absolute set of values while the practice of that religion may include exceptions.\n\nImplicit exceptions bring about a third type of value system called a formal value system. Whether idealized or realized, this type contains an implicit exception associated with each value: \"as long as no higher-priority value is violated\". For instance, a person might feel that lying is wrong. Since preserving a life is probably more highly valued than adhering to the principle that lying is wrong, lying to save someone’s life is acceptable. Perhaps too simplistic in practice, such a hierarchical structure may warrant explicit exceptions.\n\nAlthough sharing a set of common values, like hockey is better than baseball or ice cream is better than fruit, two different parties might not rank those values equally. Also, two parties might disagree as to certain actions are right or wrong, both in theory and in practice, and find themselves in an ideological or physical conflict. Ethonomics, the discipline of rigorously examining and comparing value systems, enables us to understand politics and motivations more fully in order to resolve conflicts.\n\nAn example conflict would be a value system based on individualism pitted against a value system based on collectivism. A rational value system organized to resolve the conflict between two such value systems might take the form below. Note that added exceptions can become recursive and often convoluted.\n\nPhilosophical value is distinguished from economic value, since it is independent on some other desired condition or commodity. The economic value of an object may rise when the exchangeable desired condition or commodity, e.g. money, become high in supply, and vice versa when supply of money becomes low.\n\nNevertheless, economic value may be regarded as a result of philosophical value. In the subjective theory of value, the personal philosophic value a person puts in possessing something is reflected in what economic value this person puts on it. The limit where a person considers to purchase something may be regarded as the point where the \"personal philosophic value\" of possessing something exceeds the personal philosophic value of what is given up in exchange for it, e.g. money. In this light, everything can be said to have a \"personal economic value\" in contrast to its \"societal economic value.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10121154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10121154", "title": "Vital du Four", "text": "Vital du Four\n\nVital du Four (Bazas, 1260-Avignon, 1327) was a French Franciscan theologian and scholastic philosopher.\n\nHe became Cardinal in 1312 and bishop of Albano in 1321.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20133774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20133774", "title": "Walter of Bruges", "text": "Walter of Bruges\n\nWalter of Bruges (Gualterus Brugensis OFM, Gualterus de Brugge, Gauthier de Bruges OM, Gualterus de Brugis, Gualterus de Brüge, Walter von Brügge) was a Franciscan theologian, who flourished at the University of Paris 1267-9.\n\nHe entered the Franciscans in Bruges in about 1240 and was sent to Paris for his studies. A student of Bonaventure, he was regent master at Paris from 1267 to 1269. He was elected minister provincial of the French province in 1269, then became bishop of Poitiers in 1279, a post which he held until 1306, when he retired because of ill health. He died the following year.\n\nHis family name was probably Van den Zande. He wrote \"Sermones per totum annum\" and \"Excerpta ex sanctis Patribus\" (Augustine, Gregory, Jerome, Ambrose, Hilary, Isadore and others) but was not widely known until the publication of \"Quaestiones Disputatae\". With Bonaventure, he was a teacher of Matthew of Aquasparta.\n\nAs a follower of Bonaventure, Walter accepted that the existence of God is \"the first truth\" and therefore could not be proved \"a priori\". The school of which he formed part differed from Thomas Aquinas, who held that God's existence can be proved \"a posteriori\" but not \"a priori\" (see \"Summa Theologica\", I, 2, 1 and I, 2, 3), but contended that \"being\" itself was the first object of knowledge.\n\nHis surviving works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "198336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198336", "title": "Wilhelm Reich", "text": "Wilhelm Reich\n\nWilhelm Reich (; ; 24 March 1897 – 3 November 1957) was an Austrian doctor of medicine and psychoanalyst, a member of the second generation of analysts after Sigmund Freud. The author of several influential books, most notably \"Character Analysis\" (1933), \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\" (1933), and \"The Sexual Revolution\" (1936), Reich became known as one of the most radical figures in the history of psychiatry.\n\nReich's work on character contributed to the development of Anna Freud's \"The Ego and the Mechanisms of Defence\" (1936), and his idea of muscular armour—the expression of the personality in the way the body moves—shaped innovations such as body psychotherapy, Gestalt therapy, bioenergetic analysis and primal therapy. His writing influenced generations of intellectuals; he coined the phrase \"the sexual revolution\" and according to one historian acted as its midwife. During the 1968 student uprisings in Paris and Berlin, students scrawled his name on walls and threw copies of \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\" at police.\n\nAfter graduating in medicine from the University of Vienna in 1922, Reich became deputy director of Freud's outpatient clinic, the Vienna Ambulatorium. Described by Elizabeth Danto as a large man with a cantankerous style who managed to look scruffy and elegant at the same time, he tried to reconcile psychoanalysis with Marxism, arguing that neurosis is rooted in sexual and socio-economic conditions, and in particular in a lack of what he called \"orgastic potency\". He visited patients in their homes to see how they lived, and took to the streets in a mobile clinic, promoting adolescent sexuality and the availability of contraceptives, abortion and divorce, a provocative message in Catholic Austria. He said he wanted to \"attack the neurosis by its prevention rather than treatment\".\n\nFrom the 1930s he became an increasingly controversial figure, and from 1932 until his death in 1957 all his work was self-published. His message of sexual liberation disturbed the psychoanalytic community and his political associates, and his vegetotherapy, in which he massaged his disrobed patients to dissolve their \"muscular armour\", violated the key taboos of psychoanalysis. He moved to New York in 1939, in part to escape the Nazis, and shortly after arriving coined the term \"orgone\"—from \"orgasm\" and \"organism\"—for a biological energy he said he had discovered, which he said others called God. In 1940 he started building orgone accumulators, devices that his patients sat inside to harness the reputed health benefits, leading to newspaper stories about sex boxes that cured cancer.\n\nFollowing two critical articles about him in \"The New Republic\" and \"Harper's\" in 1947, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration obtained an injunction against the interstate shipment of orgone accumulators and associated literature, believing they were dealing with a \"fraud of the first magnitude\". Charged with contempt in 1956 for having violated the injunction, Reich was sentenced to two years imprisonment, and that summer over six tons of his publications were burned by order of the court. He died in prison of heart failure just over a year later, days before he was due to apply for parole.\n\nReich was born the first of two sons to Leon Reich, a farmer, and his wife Cäcilie (née Roniger) in Dobzau, Galicia, then part of Austria-Hungary, now in Ukraine. There was a sister too, born one year after Reich, but she died in infancy. Shortly after his birth the family moved to Jujinetz, a village in Bukovina, where his father ran a cattle farm leased by his mother's uncle, Josef Blum.\n\nHis father was by all accounts a cold and jealous man. Both parents were Jewish, but decided against raising the boys as Jews. Reich and his brother, Robert, were brought up to speak only German, were punished for using Yiddish expressions and forbidden from playing with the local Yiddish-speaking children.\n\nAs an adult Reich wrote extensively, in his diary, about his sexual precocity. He maintained that his first sexual experience was at the age of four when he tried to have sex with the family maid (with whom he shared a bed), that he would regularly watch the farm animals have sex, that he used a whip handle sexually on the horses while masturbating, and that he had almost daily sexual intercourse from the age of 11 with another of the servants. He wrote of regular visits to brothels, the first when he was 15, and said he was visiting them daily from the age of around 17. He also developed sexual fantasies about his mother, writing when he was 22 that he masturbated while thinking about her.\n\nIt is impossible to judge the truth of these diary entries, but Reich's second daughter, the psychiatrist Lore Reich Rubin, told Christopher Turner that she believed Reich had been a victim of child sexual abuse, and that this explained his lifelong interest in sex and childhood sexuality.\n\nReich was taught at home until he was 12, when his mother was discovered having an affair with his live-in tutor. Reich wrote about the affair in 1920 in his first published paper, \"Über einen Fall von Durchbruch der Inzestschranke\" (\"About a Case of Breaching the Incest Taboo\"), presented in the third person as though about a patient. He wrote that he would follow his mother when she went to the tutor's bedroom at night, feeling ashamed and jealous, and wondering if they would kill him if they found out that he knew. He briefly thought of forcing her to have sex with him, on pain of threatening to tell his father. In the end, he did tell his father, and after a protracted period of beatings, his mother committed suicide in 1910, for which Reich blamed himself.\n\nWith the tutor ordered out of the house, Reich was sent to an all-male gymnasium in Czernowitz. It was during this period that a skin condition appeared, diagnosed as psoriasis, that plagued him for the rest of his life, leading several commentators to remark on his ruddy complexion. He visited brothels every day and wrote in his diary of his disgust for the women. His father died of tuberculosis in 1914, and because of rampant inflation the father's insurance was worthless, so no money was forthcoming for the brothers. Reich managed the farm and continued with his studies, graduating in 1915 with \" Stimmeneinhelligkeit\" (unanimous approval). The Russians invaded Bukovina that summer and the Reich brothers fled, losing everything. Reich wrote in his diary: \"I never saw either my homeland or my possessions again. Of a well-to-do past, nothing was left.\"\n\nReich joined the Austro-Hungarian Army during the First World War, serving from 1915 to 1918, for the last two years as a lieutenant at the Italian front with 40 men under his command. When the war ended he headed for Vienna, enrolling in law at the University of Vienna, but found it dull and switched to medicine after the first semester. He arrived with nothing in a city with little to offer; the overthrow of the Austria-Hungarian empire a few weeks earlier had left the newly formed Republic of German-Austria in the grip of famine. Reich lived on soup, oats and dried fruit from the university canteen, and shared an unheated room with his brother and another undergraduate, wearing his coat and gloves indoors to stave off the cold. He fell in love with another medical student, Lia Laszky, with whom he was dissecting a corpse, but it was largely unrequited.\n\nMyron Sharaf, his biographer, wrote that Reich loved medicine but was caught between a reductionist/mechanistic and vitalist view of the world. Reich wrote later of this period:\nThe question, \"What is Life?\" lay behind everything I learned.  ... It became clear that the mechanistic concept of life, which dominated our study of medicine at the time, was unsatisfactory  ... There was no denying the principle of creative power governing life; only it was not satisfactory as long as it was not tangible, as long as it could not be described or practically handled. For, rightly, this was considered the supreme goal of natural science.\n\nReich first met Sigmund Freud in 1919 when he asked Freud for a reading list for a seminar concerning sexology. It seems they left a strong impression on each other. Freud allowed him to start meeting with analytic patients in September that year, although Reich was just 22 years old and still an undergraduate, which gave him a small income. He was accepted as a guest member of the Vienna Psychoanalytic Association, becoming a regular member in October 1920, and began his own analysis with Isidor Sadger. He lived and worked out of an apartment on Berggasse 7, the street on which Freud lived at no. 19, in the Alsergrund area of Vienna.\n\nOne of Reich's first patients was Lore Kahn, a 19-year-old woman with whom he had an affair. Freud had warned analysts not to involve themselves with their patients, but in the early days of psychoanalysis the warnings went unheeded. According to Reich's diaries, Kahn became ill in November 1920 and died of sepsis after sleeping in a bitterly cold room she had rented as a place for her and Reich to meet (both his landlady and her parents had forbidden their meetings). Kahn's mother suspected that her daughter had died after a botched illegal abortion, possibly performed by Reich himself. According to Christopher Turner, she found some of her daughter's bloodied underwear in a cupboard.\n\nIt was a serious allegation to make against a physician. Reich wrote in his diary that the mother had been attracted to him and had made the allegation to damage him. She later committed suicide and Reich blamed himself. If Kahn did have an abortion, Turner wrote, she was the first of four of Reich's partners to do so: Annie, his first wife, had several, and his long-term partners Elsa Lindenberg and Ilse Ollendorf (his second wife) each had one (supposedly) at Reich's insistence.\n\nTwo months after Kahn's death, Reich accepted her friend, Annie Pink (1902–1971), as an analysand. Pink was Reich's fourth female patient, a medical student three months shy of her 19th birthday. He had an affair with her too, and married her in March 1922 at her father's insistence, with psychoanalysts Otto Fenichel and Edith Buxbaum as witnesses. became a well-known psychoanalyst herself. The marriage produced two daughters, (1924–2008) and Lore (b. 1928), both of whom became physicians; Lore Reich Rubin also became a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst.\n\nBecause he was a war veteran, Reich was allowed to complete a combined bachelor's and M.D. in four years, instead of six, and graduated in July 1922. After graduating, he worked in internal medicine at the city's University Hospital, and studied neuropsychiatry from 1922 to 1924 at the hospital's neurological and psychiatric clinic under Professor Julius Wagner von Jauregg, who won the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1927.\n\nIn 1922 Reich began working in Freud's psychoanalytic outpatient clinic, known as the Vienna Ambulatorium, which was opened on 22 May that year at Pelikangasse 18 by . Reich became the assistant director under Hitschmann in 1924 and worked there until his move to Berlin in 1930.\n\nBetween 1922 and 1932 the clinic offered free or reduced-cost psychoanalysis to 1,445 men and 800 women, many suffering from shell shock after World War I. It was the second such clinic to open under Freud's direction; the first was the Poliklinik in Berlin, set up in 1920 by Max Eitingon and Ernst Simmel.\n\nSharaf writes that working with labourers, farmers and students allowed Reich to move away from treating neurotic symptoms to observing chaotic lifestyles and anti-social personalities. Reich argued that neurotic symptoms such as obsessive–compulsive disorder were an unconscious attempt to gain control of a hostile environment, including poverty or childhood abuse. They were examples of what he called \"character armour\" (\"Charakterpanzer\"), repetitive patterns of behaviour, speech and body posture that served as defence mechanisms. According to Danto, Reich sought out patients at the Ambulatorium who had been diagnosed as psychopaths, believing that psychoanalysis could free them of their rage.\n\nReich joined the faculty of the Psychoanalytic Institute in Vienna in 1924 and became its director of training. According to Danto, he was well-regarded for the weekly technical seminars he chaired at the Ambulatorium, where he gave papers on his theory of character structure, arguing that psychoanalysis should be based on the examination of unconscious character traits, later known as ego defences. The seminars were attended, from 1927, by Fritz Perls, who went on to develop Gestalt therapy with his wife, Laura Perls. Several commentators remarked on how captivating the seminars were and how eloquently Reich spoke. According to a Danish newspaper in 1934:\nThe moment he starts to speak, not at the lectern, but walking around it on cat's paws, he is simply enchanting. In the Middle Ages, this man would have been sent into exile. He is not only eloquent, he also keeps his listeners spellbound by his sparking personality, reflected in his small, dark eyes.\n\nReich's first book, \"\" (\"The Impulsive Character: A Psychoanalytic Study of the Pathology of the Self\"), was published in 1925. It was a study of the anti-social personalities he had encountered in the Ambulatorium, and argued the need for a systematic theory of character. The book won him professional recognition, including from Freud, who in 1927 arranged for his appointment to the executive committee of the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society. The appointment was made over the objection of Paul Federn, who had been Reich's second analyst in 1922 and who, according to Sharaf, regarded Reich as a psychopath. Reich found the society dull and wrote that he behaved \"like a shark in a pond of carps\".\n\nBeginning in 1924 Reich published a series of papers on the idea of \"orgastic potency\", the ability to release the emotions from the muscles and lose the self in an uninhibited orgasm, an idea that Freud came to call Reich's \"Steckenpferd\" (hobby horse). Reich argued that psychic health and the ability to love depended on orgastic potency, the full discharge of the libido: \"Sexual release in the sex act must correspond to the excitement which leads up to it.\" He wrote: \"It is not just to fuck  ... not the embrace in itself, not the intercourse. It is the real emotional experience of the loss of your ego, of your whole spiritual self.\" He argued that orgastic potency was the goal of character analysis.\n\nWhereas Reich's work on character was well received by the psychoanalytic community, Sharaf writes, his work on orgastic potency was unpopular from the start and later ridiculed. He came to be known as the \"prophet of the better orgasm\" and the \"founder of a genital utopia\".\n\nReich's brother died of tuberculosis (TB) in 1926, the same disease that had killed their father. Turner writes that a quarter of deaths in Vienna were caused by TB in the 1920s. Reich himself contracted it in 1927 and spent several weeks in the winter of that year in a sanitorium in Davos, Switzerland, where TB patients went for rest cures and fresh air before antibiotics became widely available around 1945. Turner writes that Reich underwent a political and existential crisis in Davos; he returned home in the spring angry and paranoid, according to Annie Reich. Some months later he and Annie were on the streets during the July Revolt of 1927 in Vienna, when 84 workers were shot and killed by police and another 600 were injured. It seems that the experience changed Reich; he wrote that it was his first encounter with human irrationality. He began to doubt everything, and in 1928 joined the Communist Party of Austria:\nAs if struck by a blow, one suddenly recognizes the scientific futility, the biological senselessness, and the social noxiousness of views and institutions, which until that moment had seemed altogether natural and self-evident. It is a kind of eschatological experience so frequently encountered in a pathological form in schizophrenics. I might even voice the belief that the schizophrenic form of psychic illness is regularly accompanied by illuminating insight into the irrationalism of social and political mores.\n\nPartly in response to the shooting he had witnessed in Vienna, Reich, then 30, opened six free sex-counselling clinics in the city in 1927 for working-class patients. Each clinic was overseen by a physician, with three obstetricians and a lawyer on call, and offered what Reich called Sex-Pol counselling. Sex-Pol stood for the German Society of Proletarian Sexual Politics. Reich offered a mixture of \"psychoanalytic counseling, Marxist advice and contraceptives\", Danto writes, and argued for a sexual permissiveness, including for young people and the unmarried, that unsettled other psychoanalysts and the political left. The clinics were immediately overcrowded by people seeking help.\n\nHe also took to the streets in a mobile clinic, driving to parks and out to the suburbs with other psychoanalysts and physicians. Reich would talk to the teenagers and men, while a gynaecologist fitted the women with contraceptive devices, and Lia Laszky, the woman Reich fell in love with at medical school, spoke to the children. They also distributed sex-education pamphlets door to door.\n\nReich published \"Die Funktion des Orgasmus\" (\"The Function of the Orgasm\") in 1927, dedicating it to Freud. He had presented a copy of the manuscript to Freud on the latter's 70th birthday on 6 May 1926. Freud had not appeared impressed. He replied, \"That thick?\" when Reich handed it to him, and took two months to write a brief but positive letter in response, which Reich interpreted as a rejection. Freud's view was that the matter was more complicated than Reich suggested, and that there was no single cause of neurosis. He wrote in 1928 to another psychoanalyst, Dr. Lou Andreas-Salomé:\nWe have here a Dr. Reich, a worthy but impetuous young man, passionately devoted to his hobby-horse, who now salutes in the genital orgasm the antidote to every neurosis. Perhaps he might learn from your analysis of K. to feel some respect for the complicated nature of the psyche.\n\nIn 1929 Reich and his wife visited the Soviet Union on a lecture tour, leaving the two children in the care of the psychoanalyst Berta Bornstein. Sharaf writes that he returned even more convinced of the link between sexual and economic oppression, and of the need to integrate Marx and Freud. In 1929 his article \"Dialectical Materialism and Psychoanalysis\" was published in \"Unter dem Banner des Marxismus\", the German Communist Party journal. The article explored whether psychoanalysis was compatible with historical materialism, class struggle and proletarian revolution. Reich concluded that they were compatible if dialectical materialism was applied to psychology. This was one of the central theoretical statements of his Marxist period, which included \"The Imposition of Sexual Morality\" (1932), \"The Sexual Struggle of Youth\" (1932), \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\" (1933), \"What is Class Consciousness?\" (1934) and \"The Sexual Revolution\" (1936).\n\nReich and his wife moved to Berlin in November 1930, where he set up clinics in working-class areas, taught sex education and published pamphlets. He joined the Communist Party of Germany, but grew impatient over their delay in publishing one of his pamphlets, ' (1932), published in English as \"The Sexual Struggle of Youth\" (1972). He set up his own publishing house, ', and published the pamphlet himself.\n\nHis subsequent involvement in a conference promoting adolescent sexuality caused the party to announce that it would no longer publish his material. On March 24, 1933 Freud told him that his contract with the International Psychoanalytic Publishers to publish \"Character Analysis\" had been cancelled. Sharaf writes that this was almost certainly because of Reich's stance on teenage sex.\n\nReich published what Robert Corrington called his masterpiece, \"Charakteranalyse: Technik und Grundlagen für studierende und praktizierende Analytiker\", in 1933. It was revised and published in English in 1946 and 1949 as \"Character Analysis\". The book sought to move psychoanalysis toward a reconfiguration of character structure.\n\nFor Reich, character structure was the result of social processes, in particular a reflection of castration and Oedipal anxieties playing themselves out within the nuclear family. Les Greenberg and Jeremy Safran write that Reich proposed a functional identity between the character, emotional blocks, and tension in the body, or what he called character (or muscular/body) armour (\"Charakterpanzer\").\n\nReich proposed that muscular armour was a defence that contained the history of the patient's traumas. For example, he blamed Freud's jaw cancer on his muscular armour, rather than his smoking: Freud's Judaism meant he was \"biting down\" impulses, rather than expressing them. Dissolving the armour would bring back the memory of the childhood repression that had caused the blockage in the first place.\n\nReich had several affairs during his marriage to , which ended in 1933 after he began a serious relationship in May 1932 with Elsa Lindenberg, a dancer and pupil of Elsa Gindler. He was living with Lindenberg in Germany when Hitler became Chancellor in January 1933. On March 2 that year the Nazi newspaper \"Völkischer Beobachter\" published an attack on \"Der Sexuelle Kampf der Jugend\". Reich and Lindenberg left for Vienna the next day. They moved from there to Denmark, where Reich was excluded from the Danish Communist Party in November 1933 (without ever having joined it) because of his promotion of teenage sex and the publication that year of \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\", which they regarded as \"counterrevolutionary\". There were multiple complaints about his promotion of abortion, sex education, and the attempted suicide of a teenage patient. According to Turner, when Reich's visa expired, it was not renewed.\n\nHe tried to find support among psychoanalysts in the UK so that he could settle there, and was interviewed in London by Ernest Jones, Melanie Klein, Joan Riviere and James Strachey. They decided that he had been \"insufficiently analysed\" and had an unresolved hostility toward Freud. Anna Freud, Freud's daughter—whom Jones had contacted about Reich's desire to relocate to England—wrote in 1938: \"There is a wall somewhere where he stops to understand the other person's point of view and flies off into a world of his own  ... He is an unhappy person  ... and I am afraid this will end in sickness.\"\n\nReich and Lindenberg moved instead to Malmö in Sweden, which Reich described as \"better than a concentration camp\", but he was placed under surveillance when police suspected that the hourly visits of patients to his hotel room meant he was running a brothel, with Lindenberg as the prostitute. The government declined to extend his visa, and the couple had to move briefly back to Denmark, Reich under an assumed name.\n\nFrom 1930 onwards, Reich began to treat patients outside the limits of psychoanalysis's restrictions. He would sit opposite them, rather than behind them as they lay on a couch (the traditional psychoanalyst's position), and begin talking to them and answering their questions, instead of offering the stock, \"Why do you ask?\" analyst's response. He had noticed that after a successful course of psychoanalysis his patients would hold their bodies differently, so he began to try to communicate with the body using touch. He asked his male patients to undress down to their shorts, and sometimes entirely, and his female patients down to their underclothes, and began to massage them to loosen their body armour. He would also ask them to simulate physically the effects of certain emotions in the hope of triggering them.\n\nHe first presented the principles of what he called character-analytic vegetotherapy in August 1934, in a paper entitled \"Psychischer Kontakt und vegetative Strömung\" (\"Psychological Contact and Vegetative Current\") at the 13th International Congress of Psychoanalysis at Lucerne, Switzerland. His second wife, Ilse Ollendorf, said vegetotherapy replaced the psychoanalytic method of never touching a patient with \"a physical attack by the therapist\".\n\nThe method eliminated the psychoanalytic doctrine of neutrality. Reich argued that the psychoanalytic taboos reinforced the neurotic taboos of the patient, and that he wanted his patients to see him as human. He would press his thumb or the palm of his hand hard (and painfully) on their jaws, necks, chests, backs, or thighs, aiming to dissolve their muscular, and thereby characterological, rigidity. He wrote that the purpose of the massage was to retrieve the repressed memory of the childhood situation that had caused the repression. If the session worked, he would see waves of pleasure move through their bodies, which he called the \"orgasm reflex\". According to Sharaf, the twin goals of Reichian therapy were the attainment of this orgasm reflex during sessions and orgastic potency during intercourse. Reich briefly considered calling it \"orgasmotherapy\", but thought better of it.\n\nJust before the Lucerne conference, Reich was asked to resign from the International Psychoanalytical Association for prioritizing his revolutionary agenda over Freud's ideas. He arrived at the conference furious about his treatment. Turner writes that he cemented his reputation as a madman, camping in a tent outside the conference hall and reportedly carrying a large knife in his belt. According to the psychiatrist Grete Bibring, Paul Federn declared, \"Either Reich goes or I go.\"\n\nIn October 1934 Reich and Lindenberg moved to Oslo, Norway, where Harald K. Schjelderup, professor of psychology at the University of Oslo, had invited Reich to lecture on character analysis and vegetotherapy. They ended up staying for five years. During his time in Norway, Reich attempted to ground his orgasm theory in biology, exploring whether Freud's metaphor of the libido was in fact electricity or a chemical substance, an argument Freud had proposed in the 1890s but had abandoned. Reich argued that conceiving of the orgasm as nothing but mechanical tension and relaxation could not explain why some experience pleasure and others do not. He wanted to know what additional element had to be present for pleasure to be felt.\n\nReich was influenced by the work of the Austrian internist Friedrich Kraus, who argued in his paper \"Allgemeine und Spezielle Pathologie der Person\" (1926) that the biosystem was a relay-like switch mechanism of electrical charge and discharge. Reich wrote in an essay, \"Der Orgasmus als Elektro-physiologische Entladung\" (\"The Orgasm as an Electrophysiological Discharge\", 1934), that the orgasm is just such a bioelectrical discharge and proposed his \"orgasm formula\": mechanical tension (filling of the organs with fluid; tumescence) → bioelectrical charge → bioelectrical discharge → mechanical relaxation (detumescence).\n\nIn 1935 Reich bought an oscillograph and attached it to friends and students, who volunteered to touch and kiss each other while Reich read the tracings. One of the volunteers was a young Willy Brandt, the future chancellor of Germany. At the time, he was married to Reich's secretary, Gertrude Gaasland, and was living in Norway to organize protests against the Nazis. Reich also took measurements from the patients of a psychiatric hospital near Oslo, including catatonic patients, with the permission of the hospital's director. Reich described the oscillograph experiments in 1937 in \"Experimentelle Ergebniße Über Die Elektrische Funktion von Sexualität und Angst\" (\"The Bioelectrical Investigation of Sexuality and Anxiety\").\n\nFrom 1934 to 1939 Reich conducted what he called the bion experiments, which he published as \"Die Bione: zur Entstehung des vegetativen Lebens\" in Oslo in February 1938 (published in English in 1979 and later called \"The Bion Experiments on the Origin of Life\"). He examined protozoa and grew cultured vesicles using grass, sand, iron and animal tissue, boiling them and adding potassium and gelatin. Having heated the materials to incandescence with a heat-torch, he wrote that he had seen bright, glowing, blue vesicles. He called them \"bions\" and believed they were a rudimentary form of life, halfway between life and non-life. He wrote that when he poured the cooled mixture onto growth media, bacteria were born, dismissing the idea that the bacteria were already present in the air or on other materials.\n\nIn what Sharaf writes was the origins of the orgone theory, Reich said he could see two kinds of bions, the blue vesicles and smaller red ones shaped like lancets. He called the former PA-bions and the latter T-bacilli, the T standing for \"Tod\", German for death. He wrote in his book \"The Cancer Biopathy\" (1948) that he had found T-bacilli in rotting cancerous tissue obtained from a local hospital, and when injected into mice they caused inflammation and cancer. He concluded that, when orgone energy diminishes in cells through aging or injury, the cells undergo \"bionous degeneration\". At some point the deadly T-bacilli start to form in the cells. Death from cancer, he believed, was caused by an overwhelming growth of the T-bacilli.\n\nScientists in Oslo reacted strongly to Reich's work on bions, deriding it as nonsense. \"Tidens Tegn\", a leading liberal newspaper, launched a campaign against him in 1937, supported by scientists and other newspapers. Between March and December 1938, more than 165 articles or letters appeared in 13 Norwegian newspapers denouncing him.\n\nIn 1937 the Norwegian pathologist Leiv Kreyberg was allowed to examine one of Reich's bion preparations under a microscope. Kreyberg wrote that the broth Reich had used as his culture medium was indeed sterile, but that the bacteria were ordinary staphylococci. He concluded that Reich's control measures to prevent infection from airborne bacteria were not as foolproof as Reich believed. Kreyberg accused Reich of being ignorant of basic bacteriological and anatomical facts, while Reich accused Kreyberg of having failed to recognize living cancer cells under magnification.\n\nReich sent a sample of the bacteria to a Norwegian biologist, Theodor Thjøtta of the Oslo Bacteriological Institute, who also blamed airborne infection. Kreyberg and Thjøtta's views were published in the country's largest newspaper, \"Aftenposten\", on 19 and 21 April 1938. Kreyberg alleged that \"Mr. Reich\" knew less about bacteria and anatomy than a first-year medical student. When Reich requested a detailed control study, Kreyberg responded that his work did not merit it.\n\nBy February 1938 Reich's visa had expired. Several Norwegian scientists argued against an extension, Kreyberg saying, \"If it is a question of handing Dr. Reich over to the Gestapo, then I will fight that, but if one could get rid of him in a decent manner, that would be the best.\" The writer Sigurd Hoel asked: \"When did it become a reason for deportation that one looked in a microscope when one was not a trained biologist?\" Reich received support from overseas, first from the anthropologist Bronisław Malinowski, who in March wrote to the press in Norway that Reich's sociological works were \"a distinct and valuable contribution toward science\", and from A. S. Neill, founder of Summerhill, a progressive school in England, who argued that \"the campaign against Reich seems largely ignorant and uncivilized, more like fascism than democracy\".\n\nNorway was proud of its intellectual tolerance, so the \"Reich affair\", especially following the country's 1936 expulsion of Leon Trotsky, put Nygaardsvold's government on the spot. A compromise was found. Reich was given his visa, but a royal decree was issued stipulating that anyone wanting to practice psychoanalysis needed a licence, and it was understood that Reich would not be given one. Throughout the affair Reich issued just one public statement, when he asked for a commission to replicate his bion experiments. Sharaf writes that the opposition to his work affected his personality and relationships. He was left humiliated, no longer comfortable in public, and seething with bitterness against the researchers who had denounced him.\n\nAccording to Sharaf, 1934–1937 was the happiest period of Reich's personal life, despite the professional problems. His relationship with Elsa Lindenberg was good and he considered marrying her. When she became pregnant in 1935, they were initially overjoyed, buying clothes and furniture for the child, but doubts developed for Reich, who saw the future as too unsettled. To Lindenberg's great distress, Sharaf writes, Reich insisted on an abortion, at that time illegal. They went to Berlin, where the psychoanalyst Edith Jacobson helped to arrange it.\n\nIn 1937 Reich began an affair with a female patient, an actress who had been married to a colleague of his. According to Sigurd Hoel, the analysis would stop because of the relationship, then the relationship would end and the analysis would start up again. The patient eventually threatened to go to the press, but was persuaded that it would harm her as much as it would Reich. Around the same time, Reich also had an affair with Gerd Bergersen, a 25-year-old Norwegian textile designer.\n\nDespite the affairs, Sharaf writes that, as the newspaper campaign against Reich gained pace, he developed an intense jealousy toward Lindenberg, demanding that she not have a separate life of any kind. He even physically assaulted a composer with whom she was working. Lindenberg considered calling the police but decided Reich could not afford another scandal. His behaviour took its toll on their relationship, and when Reich asked her to accompany him to the United States, she said no.\n\nWhen Hitler annexed Austria in March 1938, Reich's ex-wife and daughters had already left for the United States. Later that year, Theodore P. Wolfe, a professor of psychiatry at Columbia University, traveled to Norway to study under Reich. Wolfe offered to help Reich settle in the States, and managed to arrange an invitation from The New School in New York for Reich to teach a course on \"Biological Aspects of Character Formation\". Wolfe and Walter Briehl, a former student of Reich's, put up $5,000 to guarantee his visa. Wolfe also pulled strings with Adolph Berle, an official in the State Department. Reich wrote in his diary in May 1939:\nI am sitting in a completely empty apartment waiting for my American visa. I have misgivings as to how it will go.  ... I am utterly and horribly alone!\n\nIt will be quite an undertaking to carry on all the work in America. Essentially, I am a great man, a rarity, as it were. I can't quite believe it myself, however, and that is why I struggle against playing the role of a great man.\n\nHe received the visa in August 1939 and sailed out of Norway on 19 August on the \"SS Stavangerfjord\", the last ship to leave for the United States before the war began on 3 September. He began teaching at The New School, where he remained until May 1941, living first at 7502 Kessel Street, Forest Hills, Queens, where he conducted experiments on mice with cancer, injecting them with bions. He built a small Faraday cage to examine the vapors and lights he said the bions were producing. In October 1939 his secretary Gertrud Gaasland introduced him to Ilse Ollendorf, 29 years old at the time. Reich was still in love with Lindenberg, but Ollendorf started organizing his life for him, becoming his bookkeeper and laboratory assistant. They began living together in the Kessel Street house on Christmas Day 1939. She was eight weeks pregnant, but according to Turner he insisted that she have an abortion. Five years later, in 1944, they had a son, Peter, and were married in 1946.\n\nSharaf writes that Reich's personality changed after his experience in Oslo. He became socially isolated and kept his distance even from old friends and his ex-wife. His students in the United States came to know him as a man that no colleague, no matter how close, called by his first name. In January 1940 he wrote to Lindenberg to end their relationship once and for all, telling her that he was in despair and that he believed he would end up dying like a dog.\n\nIt was shortly after he arrived in New York in 1939 that Reich first said he had discovered a biological or cosmic energy, an extension of Freud's idea of the libido. He called it \"orgone energy\" or \"orgone radiation\", and the study of it \"orgonomy\". Reich said he had seen orgone when he injected his mice with bions and in the sky at night through an \"organoscope\", a special telescope. He argued that it is in the soil and air (indeed, is omnipresent), is blue or blue-grey, and that humanity had divided its knowledge of it in two: aether for the physical aspect and God for the spiritual. The colour of the sky, the northern lights, St Elmo's Fire, and the blue of sexually excited frogs are manifestations of orgone, he wrote. He also argued that protozoa, red corpuscles, cancer cells and the chlorophyll of plants are charged with it.\n\nIn 1940 he began to build insulated Faraday cages, \"orgone accumulators\", that he said would concentrate the orgone. The earliest boxes were for laboratory animals. The first human-sized, five-foot-tall box was built in December 1940, and set up in the basement of his house. Turner writes that it was made of plywood lined with rock wool and sheet iron, and had a chair inside and a small window. The boxes had multiple layers of these materials, which caused the orgone concentration inside the box to be three to five times stronger than in the air, Reich said. Patients were expected to sit inside them naked.\n\nThe accumulators were tested on plant growth and mice with cancer. Reich wrote to his supporters in July 1941 that orgone is \"definitely able to destroy cancerous growth. This is proved by the fact that tumors in all parts of the body are disappearing or diminishing. No other remedy in the world can claim such a thing.\" Although not licensed to practise medicine in the United States, he began testing the boxes on human beings diagnosed with cancer and schizophrenia. In one case the test had to be stopped prematurely because the subject heard a rumour that Reich was insane; there were stories, which were false, that he had been hospitalized in the Utica State Mental Hospital. In another case the father of an eight-year-old girl with cancer approached him for help, then complained to the American Medical Association that he was practising without a licence. He asked his supporters to stick with him through the criticism, believing that he had developed a grand unified theory of physical and mental health.\n\nIn December 1940 Reich wrote to Albert Einstein saying he had a scientific discovery he wanted to discuss, and, in January 1941, visited Einstein at his home in Princeton, where they talked for nearly five hours. He told Einstein that he had discovered a \"specific biologically effective energy which behaves in many respects differently to all that is known about electromagnetic energy\". He said it could be used against disease, and as a weapon \"in the fight against the Fascist pestilence\". (Einstein had signed a letter to President Roosevelt in August 1939 to warn of the danger of Nazi Germany building an atom bomb, and had urged the United States to establish its own research project.) Einstein agreed that if an object's temperature could be raised without an apparent heating source, as Reich was suggesting, it would be \"a bomb\".\n\nReich was much encouraged by the meeting and hoped he would be invited to join Princeton's Institute for Advanced Study. During their next meeting, he gave Einstein a small accumulator, and over the next 10 days Einstein performed experiments with it in his basement, which involved taking the temperature above, inside and near the device, and stripping it down to its Faraday cage to compare temperatures. He observed an increase of temperature, which Reich argued was caused by orgone. One of Einstein's assistants pointed out that the temperature was lower on the floor than on the ceiling. Einstein concluded that the effect was simply due to the temperature gradient inside the room. \"Through these experiments I regard the matter as completely solved\", he wrote to Reich on 7 February 1941.\n\nReich responded with a 25-page letter in which he tried to change Einstein's mind. To rule out the influence of convection he told Einstein that he had taken certain measures, including introducing a horizontal plate above the accumulator, wrapping it in a blanket, hanging it from the ceiling, burying it underground and placing it outside. He wrote that in all these circumstances the temperature difference remained, and was in fact more marked in the open air. Einstein did not respond to this or to Reich's future correspondence—Reich would write regularly reporting the results of his experiments—until Reich threatened three years later to publish their previous exchange. Einstein replied that he could not devote any further time to the matter and asked that his name not be misused for advertising purposes. Reich believed that Einstein's change of heart was part of a conspiracy of some kind, perhaps related to the communists or prompted by the rumours that Reich was ill. Reich published the correspondence in 1953 as \"The Einstein Affair\".\n\nReich lost his position at the New School in May 1941 after writing to its director, Alvin Johnson, to say he had saved several lives in secret experiments with the accumulator. Johnson was aware of Reich's claims that he could cure cancer, and told him the New School was not an appropriate institution for the work. Reich was also evicted from Kessel Street after his neighbours complained about the animal experiments. His supporters, including Walter Briehl, gave him $14,000 to buy a house, and he settled into 9906 69th Avenue.\n\nOn 12 December 1941, five days after the attack on Pearl Harbor and a day after Germany declared it was at war with the United States, Reich was arrested in his home at 2 a.m. by the FBI and taken to Ellis Island, where he was held for over three weeks. He identified himself at the time as the Associate Professor of Medical Psychology, Director of the Orgone Institute. He was at first left to sleep on the floor in a large hall, surrounded by members of the fascist German American Bund, who Reich feared might kill him, but when his psoriasis returned he was transferred to the hospital ward. He was questioned about several books the FBI found when they searched his home, including Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\", Trotsky's \"My Life\", a biography of Lenin and a Russian alphabet book for children. After threatening to go on hunger strike he was released, on 5 January, but his name remained on the \"key figures list\" of the Enemy Alien Control Unit, which meant he was placed under surveillance.\n\nTurner writes that it seems Reich was the victim of mistaken identity; there was a William Reich who ran a bookstore in New Jersey, which was used to distribute Communist material. The FBI acknowledged the mistake in November 1943 and closed Reich's file. In 2000 it released 789 pages of the file:\nThis German immigrant described himself as the Associate Professor of Medical Psychology, Director of the Orgone Institute, President and research physician of the Wilhelm Reich Foundation and discoverer of biological or life energy. A 1940 security investigation was begun to determine the extent of Reich's communist commitments. A board of Alien Enemy Hearing judged that Dr. Reich was not a threat to the security of the U.S. In 1947, a security investigation concluded that neither the Orgone Project nor any of its staff were engaged in subversive activities or were in violation of any statute within the jurisdiction of the FBI.\n\nIn November 1942 Reich purchased an old farm for $4,000 on Dodge Pond, Maine, near Rangeley, with of land. Calling it Orgonon, he started spending summers there, and had a one-room cabin built in 1943, a laboratory in 1945, a larger cabin in 1946 and an observatory in 1948.\n\nIn 1950 he decided to live there year-round, and in May that year moved from New York with Ilse, their son, Peter, and Reich's daughter Eva, with the idea of creating a centre for the study of orgone. Several colleagues moved there with him, including two physicians with an interest in orgone, and Lois Wyvell, who ran the Orgone Press Institute. The artist William Moise joined Reich as an assistant at Orgonon, later marrying Eva Reich. Orgonon still houses the Wilhelm Reich Museum, as well as holiday cottages available to rent, one of which is the cottage in which the Reichs lived.\n\nUntil 1947 Reich enjoyed a largely uncritical press in the United States. One journal, \"Psychosomatic Medicine\", had called orgone a \"surrealist creation\", but his psychoanalytic work had been discussed in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" and the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\", \"The Nation\" had given his writing positive reviews, and he was listed in \"American Men of Science\".\nHis reputation took a sudden downturn in April and May 1947, when articles by Mildred Edie Brady were published in \"Harper's\" and \"The New Republic\", the latter entitled \"The Strange Case of Wilhelm Reich\", with the subhead, \"The man who blames both neuroses and cancer on unsatisfactory sexual activities has been repudiated by only one scientific journal.\" Brady's ultimate target was not Reich but psychoanalysis, which according to Turner she saw as akin to astrology.\n\nOf Reich she wrote: \"Orgone, named after the sexual orgasm, is, according to Reich, a cosmic energy. It is, in fact, cosmic energy. Reich has not only discovered it; he has seen it, demonstrated it and named a town—Orgonon, Maine—after it. Here he builds accumulators of it, which are rented out to patients, who presumably derive 'orgastic potency' from it.\" She claimed, falsely, that he had said the accumulators could cure not only impotence but cancer. Brady argued that the \"growing Reich cult\" had to be dealt with. On his copy of the \"New Republic\" article, Reich wrote \"THE SMEAR\". He issued a press release, but no one published it.\n\nIn July 1947 Dr. J. J. Durrett, director of the Medical Advisory Division of the Federal Trade Commission, wrote to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) asking them to investigate Reich's claims about the health benefits of orgone. The FDA assigned an investigator to the case, who learned that Reich had built 250 accumulators. The FDA concluded that they were dealing with a \"fraud of the first magnitude\". According to Sharaf, the FDA suspected a sexual racket of some kind; questions were asked about the women associated with orgonomy and \"what was done with them\". From that point on, Reich's work came increasingly to the attention of the authorities.\n\nReich established the Orgonomic Infant Research Center (OIRC) in 1950, with the aim of preventing muscular armouring in children from birth. Meetings were held in the basement of his house in Forest Hills. Turner wrote that several children who were treated by OIRC therapists later said they had been sexually abused by the therapists, although not by Reich. One woman said she was assaulted by one of Reich's associates when she was five years old. Children were asked to stand naked in front of Reich and a group of 30 therapists in his basement, while Reich described the children's \"blockages\". Reich's daughter, Lore Reich Rubin, told Turner that she believed her father was an abuser, although she did not say she had been abused by him, and she acknowledged that she had no evidence. She believed that Reich himself had been abused as a child, which is why he developed such an interest in sex and childhood sexuality.\n\nThe sexual allegations apart, several people discussed how the vegetotherapy had hurt them physically as children, as therapists pressed hard on the body to loosen muscular armour. Reich's son, Peter, wrote in his autobiography, \"Book of Dreams\" (1973) about the pain this had caused him. Susanna Steig, the daughter of William Steig, the \"New Yorker\" cartoonist, wrote about being pressed so hard during Reichian therapy that she had difficulty breathing, and said that a woman therapist had sexually assaulted her. According to Turner, a nurse complained in 1952 to the New York Medical Society that an OIRC therapist had taught her five-year-old son how to masturbate. The therapist was arrested, but the case was dropped when Reich agreed to close the OIRC.\n\nReich and Ilse Ollendorff divorced in September 1951, ostensibly because he thought she had had an affair. She continued working with him for another three years. Even after the divorce, he suspected her of having affairs, and persuaded her to sign confessions about her feelings of fear and hatred toward him, which he locked away in the archives of his Orgone Institute. He wrote several documents denouncing her, while having an affair himself with Lois Wyvell, who ran the Orgone Institute Press.\n\nIn 1951, Reich said he had discovered another energy that he called deadly orgone radiation (DOR), accumulations of which played a role in desertification. He designed a \"cloudbuster\", rows of 15-foot aluminium pipes mounted on a mobile platform, connected to cables that were inserted into water. He believed that it could unblock orgone energy in the atmosphere and cause rain. Turner described it as an \"orgone box turned inside out\".\n\nHe conducted dozens of experiments with the cloudbuster, calling his research \"Cosmic Orgone Engineering\". During a drought in 1953, two farmers in Maine offered to pay him if he could make it rain to save their blueberry crop. Reich used the cloudbuster on the morning of 6 July, and according to Bangor's \"Daily News\"—based on an account from an anonymous eyewitness who was probably Peter Reich—rain began to fall that evening. The crop survived, the farmers declared themselves satisfied, and Reich received his fee.\n\nOver the years the FDA interviewed physicians, Reich's students and his patients, asking about the orgone accumulators. A professor at the University of Oregon who bought an accumulator told an FDA inspector that he knew the device was phoney, but found it helpful because his wife sat quietly in it for four hours every day.\n\nThe attention of the FDA triggered belligerent responses from Reich, who called them \"HiGS\" (hoodlums in government) and the tools of red fascists. He developed a delusion that he had powerful friends in government, including President Eisenhower, who he believed would protect him, and that the U.S. Air Force was flying over Orgonon to make sure that he was all right. On 29 July 1952 three inspectors arrived at Orgonon unannounced. Sharaf writes that Reich detested unannounced visitors; he had once chased some people away with a gun just for looking at an adjacent property. He told the inspectors they had to read his work before he would interact with them, and ordered them to leave.\n\nIn February 1954 the United States Attorney for the District of Maine filed a 27-page complaint seeking a permanent injunction under Sections 301 and 302 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to prevent interstate shipment of orgone accumulators and to ban promotional literature. Reich refused to appear in court, arguing that no court was in a position to evaluate his work. In a letter to Judge John D. Clifford, Jr. in February, he wrote:\nMy factual position in the case as well as in the world of science of today does not permit me to enter the case against the Food and Drug Administration, since such action would, in my mind, imply admission of the authority of this special branch of the government to pass judgment on primordial, pre-atomic cosmic orgone energy. I, therefore, rest the case in full confidence in your hands.\n\nThe injunction was granted by default on 19 March 1954. The judge ordered that all accumulators, parts and instructions be destroyed, and that several of Reich's books that mentioned orgone be withheld.\n\nAccording to Turner, the injunction triggered a further deterioration in Reich's mental health. From at least early 1954, he came to believe that the planet was under attack by UFOs, or \"energy alphas\", as he called them. He said he often saw them flying over Orgonon—shaped like thin cigars with windows—leaving streams of black Deadly Orgone Radiation in their wake, which he believed the aliens were scattering to destroy the Earth.\n\nHe and his son would spend their nights searching for UFOs through telescopes and binoculars, and when they believed they had found one would roll out the cloudbuster to suck the energy out of it. Reich claimed he had shot several of them down. Armed with two cloudbusters, they fought what Reich called a \"full-scale interplanetary battle\" in Arizona, where he had rented a house as a base station. In \"Contact with Space\" (1956), he wrote of the \"very remote possibility\" that his own father had been from outer space.\n\nIn late 1954 Reich began an affair with Grethe Hoff, a former patient. Hoff was married to another former student and patient of his, the psychologist Myron Sharaf, who decades later, with his \"Fury on Earth\" (1983), became Reich's main biographer. Hoff and Sharaf had had their first child the year before Hoff left him for Reich; the marriage was never repaired although the affair had ended by June 1955. Two months later Reich began another relationship, this time with Aurora Karrer, a medical researcher, and, in November, he moved out of Orgonon to an apartment in Alban Towers, Washington, D.C., to live with her, using the pseudonym Dr. Walter Roner.\n\nWhile Reich was in Arizona in May 1956, one of his associates sent an accumulator part through the mail to another state, in violation of the injunction, after an FDA inspector posing as a customer requested it. Reich and another associate, Dr. Michael Silvert, were charged with contempt of court; Silvert had been looking after the inventory in Reich's absence. Reich at first refused to attend court, and was arrested and held for two days until a supporter posted bail of $30,000.\n\nRepresenting himself during the hearing, he admitted the violation but pleaded not guilty and hinted at conspiracies. During a recess the judge apparently suggested a psychiatric evaluation to Reich's ex-wife, Ilse Ollendorff, but this was not communicated to Reich. The jury found him guilty on 7 May 1956, and he was sentenced to two years' imprisonment. Silvert was sentenced to a year and a day, the Wilhelm Reich Foundation was fined $10,000, and the accumulators and associated literature were to be destroyed.\n\nOn 5 June 1956 two FDA officials arrived at Orgonon to supervise the destruction of the accumulators. Most of them had been sold by that time and another 50 were with Silvert in New York. Only three were at Orgonon. The FDA agents were not allowed to destroy them, only to supervise the destruction, so Reich's friends and his son, Peter, chopped them up with axes as the agents watched. Once they were destroyed, Reich placed an American flag on top of them.\n\nOn 26 June the agents returned to supervise the destruction of the promotional material, including 251 copies of Reich's books. The American Civil Liberties Union issued a press release criticizing the book burning, although coverage of the release was poor, and Reich ended up asking them not to help because he was annoyed that they had failed to criticize the destruction of the accumulators. In England A.S. Neill and the poet Herbert Read signed a letter of protest, but it was never published. On 23 July the remaining accumulators in New York were destroyed by S. A. Collins and Sons, who had built them.\n\nOn 23 August six tons of Reich's books, journals and papers were burned in New York, in the Gansevoort incinerator, the public incinerator on 25th Street. The material included copies of several of his books, including \"The Sexual Revolution\", \"Character Analysis\" and \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\". Although these had been published in German before Reich ever discussed orgone, he had added mention of it to the English editions, so they were caught by the injunction. It has been cited as one of the worst examples of censorship in U.S. history. As with the accumulators, the FDA was supposed only to observe the destruction. The psychiatrist Victor Sobey (d. 1995), an associate of Reich's, wrote:\nAll the expenses and labor had to be provided by the [Orgone Institute] Press. A huge truck with three to help was hired. I felt like people who, when they are to be executed, are made to dig their own graves first and are then shot and thrown in. We carried box after box of the literature.\n\nReich appealed the lower court's decision in October 1956, but the Court of Appeals upheld it on 11 December. He wrote several times to J. Edgar Hoover, director of the FBI, requesting a meeting, and appealed to the Supreme Court, which decided on 25 February 1957 not to review the case. On 12 March 1957 Reich and Silvert were sent to Danbury Federal Prison. (Silvert committed suicide in May 1958, five months after his release.) Richard C. Hubbard, a psychiatrist who admired Reich, examined him on admission, recording paranoia manifested by delusions of grandiosity, persecution, and ideas of reference:\nThe patient feels that he has made outstanding discoveries. Gradually over a period of many years he has explained the failure of his ideas in becoming universally accepted by the elaboration of psychotic thinking. \"The Rockerfellows [sic] are against me.\" (Delusion of grandiosity.) \"The airplanes flying over prison are sent by the Air Force to encourage me.\" (Ideas of reference and grandiosity.)\n\nOn 19 March Reich was transferred to the Lewisburg Federal Penitentiary and examined again. This time it was decided that he was mentally competent and that his personality seemed intact, though he might become psychotic when stressed. A few days later, on his 60th birthday, he wrote to his son, Peter, then 13:\nI am in Lewisburg. I am calm, certain in my thoughts, and doing mathematics most of the time. I am kind of \"above things\", fully aware of what is up. Do not worry too much about me, though anything might happen. I know, Pete, that you are strong and decent. At first I thought that you should \"not\" visit me here. I do not know. With the world in turmoil I now feel that a boy your age should experience what is coming his way—fully digest it without getting a \"belly ache\", so to speak, nor getting off the right track of truth, fact, honesty, fair play, and being above board—\"never a sneak\"  ...  .\n\nHe applied for a presidential pardon in May, to no avail. Peter visited him in jail several times, where one prisoner said Reich was known as the \"flying saucer guy\" and the \"Sex Box man\". Reich told Peter that he cried a lot, and wanted Peter to let himself cry too, believing that tears are the \"great softener\". His last letter to his son was on 22 October 1957, when he said he was looking forward to being released on 10 November, having served one third of his sentence. A parole hearing had been scheduled for a few days before that date. He wrote that he and Peter had a date for a meal at the Howard Johnson restaurant near Peter's school.\n\nReich failed to appear for roll call on 3 November 1957 and was found at 7 a.m. in his bed, fully clothed but for his shoes. The prison doctor said he had died during the night of \"myocardial insufficiency with sudden heart failure\". He was buried in a vault at Orgonon that he had asked his caretaker to dig in 1955. He had left instructions that there was to be no religious ceremony, but that a record should be played of Schubert's \"Ave Maria\" sung by Marian Anderson, and that his granite headstone should read simply: \"Wilhelm Reich, Born March 24, 1897, Died  ... \" None of the academic journals carried an obituary. \"Time\" magazine wrote on 18 November 1957:\nDied. Wilhelm Reich, 60, once-famed psychoanalyst, associate and follower of Sigmund Freud, founder of the Wilhelm Reich Foundation, lately better known for unorthodox sex and energy theories; of a heart attack; in Lewisburg Federal Penitentiary, Pa; where he was serving a two-year term for distributing his invention, the \"orgone energy accumulator\" (in violation of the Food and Drug Act), a telephone-booth-size device that supposedly gathered energy from the atmosphere, and could cure, while the patient sat inside, common colds, cancer, and impotence.\n\nThe psychoanalyst Richard Sterba wrote in 1982 that Reich had been a brilliant clinician and teacher in the 1920s; even the older analysts had wanted to attend his technical seminars in Vienna. But according to Sharaf, they came to consider Reich as paranoid and belligerent. Psychologist Luis Cordon wrote that Reich's slide from respectability concluded with the consensus inside and outside the psychoanalytic community that he was at best a crackpot and perhaps seriously ill.\n\nThere were inaccurate rumours from the late 1920s that he had been hospitalized. Paul Federn became Reich's second analyst in 1922; he later said he had detected \"incipient schizophrenia\" and called Reich a psychopath. Similarly, Sandor Rado had Reich as an analyst and in 1931 and declared him schizophrenic \"in the most serious way\". Reich's daughter, Lore Reich Rubin, a psychiatrist, believed that he was bipolar and had been sexually abused as a child.\n\nSharaf argued that psychoanalysts tended to dismiss as ill anyone from within the fold who had transgressed, and this was never done so relentlessly as with Reich. His work was split into the pre-psychotic \"good\" and the post-psychotic \"bad\", the date of the illness's onset depending on which parts of his work a speaker disliked. Psychoanalysts preferred to see him as sane in the 1920s because of his work on character, while political radicals regarded him as sane in the 1930s because of his Marxist-oriented research.\nDespite Reich's precarious mental health, his work on character and the idea of muscular armouring contributed to the development of what is now known as ego psychology, gave rise to body psychotherapy, and helped shape the Gestalt therapy of Fritz Perls, the bioenergetic analysis of Reich's student Alexander Lowen, and the primal therapy of Arthur Janov.\n\nReich's work influenced a generation of intellectuals, including Saul Bellow, William Burroughs and Norman Mailer, and the founder of Summerhill School in England, A. S. Neill. The French philosopher Michel Foucault wrote in \"The History of Sexuality\" (1976) that the impact of Reich's critique of sexual repression had been substantial.\n\nThe Austrian-American philosopher Paul Edwards said that the FDA's pursuit of Reich had intensified Edwards' attachment to him. He wrote in 1977 that for years he and his friends regarded Reich as \"something akin to a messiah\". Paul Mathews and John M. Bell started teaching a course on Reich in 1968 at New York University through its Division of Continuing Study, and it was still being taught at the time Sharaf was writing Reich's biography in 1983, making it the longest-running course ever taught in that division.\n\nSeveral well-known figures used orgone accumulators, including Orson Bean, Sean Connery, Allen Ginsberg, Paul Goodman, Jack Kerouac, Isaac Rosenfeld, J. D. Salinger, William Steig and Robert Anton Wilson. Mailer—who owned several orgone accumulators, including some in the shape of eggs—wrote about Reich enthusiastically in \"The Village Voice\", as a result of which Orgonon became a place of pilgrimage and the orgasm a symbol of liberation.\n\nReich continued to influence popular culture after his death. Turner writes that the evil Dr. Durand Durand in the feature film \"Barbarella\" (1968) seems to be based on Reich; he places Barbarella (Jane Fonda) in his \"Excessive Machine\" so that she would die of pleasure, but rather than killing her the machine burns out. A film about Reich and the implications of his ideas, \"\" (1971), was directed by Yugoslavian director Dušan Makavejev. An orgone accumulator made an appearance as the Orgasmatron in Woody Allen's comedy feature film \"Sleeper\" (1973). The use of orgone accumulators, a cloudbuster and representations of Reich's orgone therapy with patients, together with a snapshot of the FDA's hostile actions against Reich were dramatised in a short film called 'It Can Be Done', which was made by British director Jon East in 1999. The film screened at the 56th Venice Film Festival on 11 September 1999.\n\nPatti Smith's \"Birdland\" on her album \"Horses\" (1975) is based on Reich's life. Hawkwind's song \"Orgone Accumulator\", on their album \"Space Ritual\" (1973) is named for his invention, as is Love Camp 7's \"Orgone Box\" (1997). In Bob Dylan's \"Joey\" from \"Desire\" (1975), the eponymous gangster spends his time in prison reading Nietzsche and Reich. Reich is also a character in the opera \"Marilyn\" (1980) by Italian composer Lorenzo Ferrero.\nKate Bush's single \"Cloudbusting\" (1985) described Reich's arrest through the eyes of his son, Peter, who wrote his father's story in \"A Book of Dreams\" (1973). The video for the song features Donald Sutherland as Reich and Bush as Peter. Robert Anton Wilson's play, \"Wilhelm Reich in Hell\" (1987), is about Reich's confrontation with the American government. \"\" (2013) is a compilation album on which Reich's writings are adapted to music. The Australian designer Marc Newson has produced a range of orgone furniture, most famously his Orgone Chair (1993).\n\nThe mainstream scientific community dismissed Reich's orgone theory as pseudoscience. James Strick, a historian of science at Franklin and Marshall College, wrote in 2015 that the dominant narrative since Reich's death has been that \"there is no point in looking more closely at Reich's science because there no legitimate science from Reich\".\n\nFrom 1960, apparently in response to the book burning, the New York publisher Farrar, Straus and Giroux began republishing his major works. Reichian physicians organized study groups. In 1967 one of his associates, Dr. Elsworth Baker, established the bi-annual \"Journal of Orgonomy\", still published as of 2015, and in 1968 founded the American College of Orgonomy in Princeton, New Jersey. According to Sharaf, contributors to the \"Journal of Orgonomy\" who worked in academia often used pseudonyms. The Orgone Biophysical Research Laboratory was founded in 1978 by James DeMeo and the Institute for Orgonomic Science in 1982 by Morton Herskowitz.\n\nThere was renewed interest in November 2007, when the Reich archives at the Francis A. Countway Library of Medicine at Harvard University were unsealed; Reich had left instructions that his unpublished papers be stored for 50 years after his death. James Strick began studying Reich's laboratory notebooks from the 1935–1939 bion experiments in Norway. In 2015 Harvard University Press published Strick's \"Wilhelm Reich, Biologist\", in which he writes that Reich's work in Oslo \"represented the cutting edge of light microscopy and time-lapse micro-cinematography\". He argues that the dominant narrative of Reich as a pseudoscientist is incorrect and that Reich's story is \"much more complex and interesting\".\n\nSpeaking to Christopher Turner in 2011, Reich's son, Peter, said of his father, \"He was a nineteenth-century scientist; he wasn't a twentieth-century scientist. He didn't practice science the way scientists do today. He was a nineteenth-century mind who came crashing into twentieth-century America. And boom!\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33823", "title": "William Ames", "text": "William Ames\n\nWilliam Ames (; Latin: \"Guilielmus Amesius\"; 1576 – 14 November 1633) was an English Protestant divine, philosopher, and controversialist. He spent much time in the Netherlands, and is noted for his involvement in the controversy between the Calvinists and the Arminians.\n\nAmes was born at Ipswich, and was brought up by a maternal uncle, Robert Snelling of Boxford. He was educated at the local grammar school and from 1594 at Christ's College, Cambridge. He was considerably influenced by his tutor at Christ's, William Perkins, and by his successor Paul Bayne. Ames graduated BA in 1598 and MA in 1601, and was chosen for a fellowship in Christ's College.\n\nHe was popular in the university, and in his own college. One of Ames's sermons became historical in the Puritan controversies. It was delivered in the university Church of St Mary the Great, Cambridge on 21 December 1609, and in it he rebuked sharply \"lusory lotts\" and the \"heathenish debauchery\" of the students during the Twelve Days of Christmas.\n\nA partisan election, however, had led to the mastership at Christ's going to Valentine Carey. He quarrelled with Ames for disapproving of the surplice and other outward symbols. Ames's vehemence led to his being summoned before the Vice-Chancellor, who suspended him \"from the exercise of his ecclesiastical function and from all degrees taken or to be taken.\"\n\nHe left Cambridge, and was offered a lecturer position at Colchester, but George Abbot, the Bishop of London, went against the wishes of the local corporation, and refused to grant institution and induction. Similar rebuffs awaited him elsewhere, and he travelled with Robert Parker to the Netherlands, helped by English merchants who wished him to controvert the supporters of the English church in Leiden. At Rotterdam, he debated with Grevinchovius (Nicholas Grevinckhoven, d. 1632), minister of the Arminian party, with reasoning from \"Philippians\" ii. 13, \"It is God that worketh in us both to will and to do.\" \nThis dispute made his name in the Netherlands.\n\nSubsequently Ames entered into a controversy in print with Grevinchovius on universal redemption and election, and cognate problems. He brought together all he had maintained in his \"Coronis ad Collationem Hagiensem\" (A Finishing Touch to the Hague Conference)— his major book. At Leiden, Ames became intimate with Hugh Goodyear, pastor of the English church there. He was sent for to The Hague by Sir Horatio Vere, the English governor of Brill, who appointed him a minister in the army of the states-general, and of the English soldiers in their service. He married a daughter of John Burges, who was Vere's chaplain, and, on his father-in-law's return to England, succeeded to his place.\n\nIt was at this time he began his controversy with Simon Episcopius, who, in attacking the \"Coronis\", railed against the author as having been \"a disturber of the public peace in his native country, so that the English magistrates had banished him thence; and now, by his late printed \"Coronis\", he was raising new disturbances in the peaceable Netherlands.\" Episcopius was rebutted by Goodyear, who became a defender of Ames against the Remonstrants, and later provided Nethenus with material for his biography of Ames.\n\nThe \"Coronis\" had been primarily prepared for the Synod of Dort, which sat from 13 November 1618 until 9 May 1619. At this synod the position of Ames was anomalous. The High Church party in England had induced Vere to dismiss him from the chaplaincy; but he was still held in reverence. It was arranged he should attend the synod, and he was retained by the Calvinist party at four florins a day to watch the proceedings. He was adviser to Johannes Bogerman, the synod's President.\n\nA proposal to make him principal of a theological college at Leiden was frustrated by Archbishop Abbot; and when later invited by the state of Friesland to a professoriate at Franeker, the opposition was renewed, but this time abortively. \nHe was installed at Franeker on 7 May 1622 and delivered a discourse on the occasion on \"Urim and Thummim\". \nHe brought renown to Franeker as professor, preacher, pastor and theological writer; one student of the period influenced by Ames was Johannes Cocceius. \nAnother student was Nathaniel Eaton, later of Harvard College.\n\nHe prepared his \"Medulla Theologiae\" (The Marrow of Theology), a manual of Calvinistic doctrine, for his students. Ames was much influenced in terms of method by Ramism, and opposed the residual teaching of Aristotle. His \"De Conscientia, ejus Jure et Casibus\" (1632), an attempt to bring Christian ethics into clear relation with particular cases of conduct and of conscience, was a new thing in Protestantism.\n\nHaving continued twelve years at Franeker (where he was rector in 1626), his health gave way, and he contemplated a move to New England. But another door was opened for him, with an invitation to Rotterdam. There he prepared his \"Fresh Suit against Ceremonies\"—the book which made Richard Baxter a Nonconformist. It sums up the issues between the Puritan school and that of Richard Hooker, and was posthumously published. \n\nHaving caught a cold from a flood which inundated his house, he died in November 1633, at the age of fifty-seven, apparently in needy circumstances. He left, by a second wife Joan Fletcher, two sons and a daughter, who emigrated to Massachusetts in 1637; the sons later returned to England; his daughter Ruth married in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Edmund Angier, and their son Samuel Angier later married in 1680 Hannah Oakes, the daughter of Urian Oakes.\n\nHis works, which the \"Biographia Britannica\" (1778) testifies were known over Europe, were collected at Amsterdam in five volumes. Only a small proportion was translated into English. Ames' thought was particularly influential in New England.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25190022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25190022", "title": "Yashovijaya", "text": "Yashovijaya\n\nYashovijaya (, 1624–1688), a seventeenth-century Jain philosopher-monk, was a notable Indian philosopher and logician. He was a thinker, prolific writer and commentator who had a strong and lasting influence on Jainism. He was a disciple of Muni Nayavijaya in the lineage of Jain monk Hiravijaya (belonging to the Tapa Gaccha tradition of Svetambara Jains) who influenced the Mughal Emperor Akbar to give up eating meat. He is also known as Yashovijayji with honorifics like Mahopadhyaya or Upadhyaya or Gani.\n\nYashovijaya was born in a village called Kanoda in the Mehsana district in Gujarat in 1624 CE. Some sources place his year of birth as 1608 CE. His childhood name was Jasha. He belonged to the endogamous group of Oswal Jains. He lost his father when he was very young and consequently he was brought up by his mother. The inclination towards religious life was inculcated by his mother, who often used to take him to Jain upashrayas. Young Yashovijaya attracted attention of Jain monk Nayavijayaji who was impressed by his impressive memory feat of remembering the Bhaktamara Stotra at a very young age.\n\nHe was initiated as a young monk under the stewardship of Muni Nayavijaya. According to some sources, he came to Varanasi in the company of his teacher Nayavijaya, both having disguised themselves as Brahmins to get into the matha. By some accounts, he was sent by his guru to Varanasi to study logic and philosophy along with another disciple Vinayvijaya. Other sources indicate, he had gone to Varanasi on his own in 1626, disguised as a Brahmin. By around 1638 he confessed that he was a Jain monk and was at once asked to leave the matha. But the sources are unanimous that for around 12 years he studied Sanskrit, Prakrit, logic and Metaphysics. He became skilled in the field of Navya-Nyāya branch of logic and thus earned the titles \"Upajjhaya\" (teacher), \"Nyayavisharada\" (one who is skilled in logic) and \"Nyayacarya\" (authority on logic).\n\nAccording to Jonardon Ganeri, Yashovijaya’s intellectual biography can be seen as falling under three heads: an apprenticeship in Varanasi studying Navyanyaya, a period writing Jaina philosophical treatises using the techniques and methods of Navyanyaya, and a time spent writing works with a markedly spiritual and religious orientation. One of the decisive events in the process leading to this transformation was Yashovijaya’s meeting with Anandghan, a Jain spiritual poet and monk.\n\nHe was a prolific writer and is said to have authored around 100 works in Sanskrit and Gujarati. After a career as a monk, philosopher, author, poet and logician, for almost 80 years, he died at Dabhoi, Gujarat in 1688 CE.\n\nPaul Dundas calls Yashovijaya as the last truly great intellectual figure in Jainism, who rose to fame on account of his learning and mastery of sophisticated logical techniques as well for his interest of mysticism in later life. Yashovijaya often refers to the 8th Century Jain scholar-monk Acarya Haribhadra in his works, indicating that he saw himself as Haribhadra's successor. Haribhadra's reputation for being influenced only by the logical cogency of the doctrines and viewpoints (anekantavada) ultimately shaped Yashovijayas irenic but sometimes critical attitude towards other sects and traditions. Yashovijaya had not only studied all the great Svetambara authors from the oldest to the latest, he was also well read in important Digambara works. He wrote several important Navyanyaya works on Digambara Nyaya texts such as the Aptamimamsa of Acarya Samantabhadra. The Jain tradition is remarkably ecumenical when it comes to Nyaya and Acaryas of both the Digambara and the Shvetambara traditions have composed texts in the genre of Nyaya and the texts are read by monks and scholars of both traditions. Furthermore, Yashovijaya he was well versed in philosophy of diverse schools such as Vedantic, Sankhya, Yoga, Mimāṃsā and Buddhist.\n\nIn his famous work, \"Adhyatmopanisatprakarana\" he argued that no body of ‘theory’ (\"sastra\"), whether Jain or non-Jain, is to be accepted merely on the basis of sectarian interest. Instead, the theory should be subject to testing, just as the purity of a sample of gold is determined by tests involving rubbing, cutting and heating (1.17) In one of the ethical works, the \"Jnanasara\", Yashovijaya describes 32 moral and intellectual virtues that constitute a virtuous character. Out of these, two are distinctive: neutrality (\"madhyasthata\") and groundedness in all view-points (\"sarvanayasraya\"). Neutrality is explained in terms of the dispassionate use of reason: a person who embodies this virtue follows wherever reason leads, rather than using reason only to defend prior opinions (16.2). Yashovijaya stresses that neutrality is not an end in itself, but a means to another end. We adopt a neutral attitude, he says, in the hope it leads to well-being (hita), just as someone who knows that one among a group of herbs is restorative but does not know which one it is, acts reasonably if they swallow the entire lot (16.8).\n\nYashovijaya authored two famous texts — \"Adhyatmasara\" and \"Adhyatmopanisatprakarana\"— that analyses the true nature of self. Yashovijaya describes the state of true self-awareness as a state beyond deep sleep, beyond conceptualisation, and beyond linguistic representation, and he says that it is the duty of any good sastra to point out the existence and possibility of such states of true self-awareness, for they cannot be discovered by reason or experience alone. Yashovijaya argues that from the standpoint of \"niscaya naya\" (real standpoint) the soul is called \"jiva\" if it leads an embodied life. This is different than Kundakunda’s view of \"niscaya naya\", that only a soul that possesses the most essential property of the soul—cognitive capacity—is jiva. This means that according to Kundakunda only a released soul is jiva from the standpoint of \"niscaya naya\". While both position have valid logic, Yashovijaya criticised this view as it had no support from any prior authors.\n\nYashovijaya stressed that neutrality does not mean acceptance of every position whatever, but acceptance only of those that satisfy at least the minimal criteria of clarity and coherence needed to legitimately constitute a point of view. Hence he criticised the Carvaka philosophy as being too confused in their understanding of the topic of liberation even to be said to have a ‘view’. He also confronted the Brahmin scholar Raghunatha Siromani, one of the greatest exponent of modern logic during his time, thus proving his extraordinary talent. Paul Dundas notes that, Yashovijaya also criticized the famous Digambara Jain monk Kundakunda for his more reliance on one standpoint. He also strongly attacked the laity based Adhyatmika sect whose de-emphasis on the role of rituals and ascetics was derived from works of Kundakunda and his commentators. At the same time, Yashovijaya also opposed the views of Svetambara monk Dharmasagara for his supremacist perspective of Jainism and exclusivist refusal to accept validity of any religious path except that of Tapa Gachchha (a sub-sect of Svetambara Jains).\n\nDespite his eminence and influence, one criticism leveled against Yashovijaya is that he is best known for his Navya-Nyaya commentaries of earlier existing works rather than his own original works. Furthermore, his works on Yoga, dhyana, grammar and poetry did not gain much fame, as the works of Haribhadra and Hemacandra on these topics were already established and famous by the time Yashovijaya came on the scene. His fame largely rests on his mastery of \"navyanyaya\", for which he had no contemporary rival. This could be because, for almost six centuries between Hemacandra and Yashovijaya, Jainism did not produce any able scholar on philosophy of \"nyaya\".\n\nYashovijaya left behind a vast body of literature that exerted a vast influence on the Jain philosophy. After Acarya Haribhadra and Acarya Hemacandra, Upadhyaya Yashovijaya is the most high-profile Jain monk. Dundas notes that Yashovijaya enjoys a near talismanic figure for the contemporary Svetambara monastic community and is identified with \"madhyastha\" or principle of neutrality. Dundas further notes that Yashovijaya paints a superior picture of Jainism with his inclusivism and it is this image of Jainism that has become a dominant one today. He had an influence on Srimad Rajcandra’s book \"Atmasiddhi\" wherein, he has provided six fundamental truths on soul and liberation following Yashovijaya's Adhyatmasara. A college called Jain Yashovijaya Pathashala has been established in Varanasi in his memory, under auspices of which the sacred Jain texts are being published in a series called Jain Yashovijaya Granthamala. The Jain community of Ahmedabad has honoured him by naming one block as Yashovijaya Chowk at the Relief Road end of Ratanpol where Yashovijaya lived for many years.\n\nSome of the texts authored by Yashovijaya are:\n\n"}
