{"id": "28248613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28248613", "title": "Abd as-Salam al-Qadiri", "text": "Abd as-Salam al-Qadiri\n\nAbu Mohammed Abd as-Salam al-Qadiri (1648–1698) was an historian and genealogist of the Sharifian families of Morocco. He was the grandfather and precursor of the historian Mohammed al-Qadiri (1713–80). He wrote a book about Ahmad ibn Abdullah al-Ma'n al-Andalusi, entitled \"Al-Maksad al-ahmad fi l-tarif bi-Sayyidina Ibn Abd Allah\". He was an expert in the field of lexicography, logic, rhetoric, and hadith.\n"}
{"id": "35860262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35860262", "title": "Adriaan Justus Enschedé", "text": "Adriaan Justus Enschedé\n\nAdriaan Justus Enschedé (20 June 1829 in Haarlem – 19 March 1896 in Haarlem) was a Haarlem Archivist, collector, owner of the Joh. Enschedé printing company, philanthropist and a member of \"Teylers Tweede Genootschap\" (Teylers Second or Scientific Society).\n\nAdriaan Justus was the son of Christiaan Justus Enschedé and his wife Adriana Maria Dalen. He attended the Stedelijk Gymnasium Haarlem and studied law in Leiden, whereupon he joined the family business in Haarlem and brought historical typefaces back into fashion. He became city archivist in 1857 where he wrote an inventory of the archives, still useful today. He wrote several publications on the history of Haarlem, finding inspiration in his work as city archivist publishing the first inventory of the archives of Haarlem. He was a driving force behind the restoration of the St. Bavochurch for which he donated many historical objects including historical stained-glass windows from other locations, and also for the restoration of the ruin of Castle Brederode.\n\nAfter his death, Adriaan Justus left a significant collection of paintings, drawings, prints, coins, and books behind. He left his Roman coins to the Teylers Museum.\n"}
{"id": "8073923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8073923", "title": "Alexander Guagnini", "text": "Alexander Guagnini\n\nAlexander Guagnini (, ; 1538 in Verona, Republic of Venice – 1614 in Kraków, Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth) was a Polish writer, military officer, chronicler and historian of Italian heritage. He is known as a Crown Rotmistrz of Poland and Commandant of Vitebsk. Guagnini fought for the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in the Livonian War and the Moldavian Magnate Wars. \n\nGwagnin is known for publishing the Latin book \"Sarmatiae Europeae descriptio, quae Regnum Poloniae, Lituaniam, Samogitiam, Russiam, Masoviam, Prussiam, Pomeraniam... complectitur\", usually translated as \"A Description of Sarmatian Europe\" (printed in Kraków, 1578), which contained descriptions of the countries of Eastern Europe (history, geography, religion, traditions, etc.). The full name of his work is called \"Sarmatiae Europeae descriptio, quae regnum Poloniae, Litvaniam, Samogitiam, Rvssiam, Massoviam, Prvssian, Pomeraniam, Livoniam, et Moschoviae, Tartariaeque partem complectitur\".\n\nAlong with his father, Guagnini came to the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth during the Livonian War. He spent almost his entire life in Poland and considered it his other Motherland and wrote about that in his \"Description of Sarmatian Europe\". During his years of service Guanini was close to the Great Hetman Lithuanian and at the end of it he was closely connected with the court of Cracow Archbishop. He was referred in front of the Polish Sejm by the first persons of European states. \n\nThe earliest biographic information about Alexander Guagnini is recorded by Szymon Starowolski in his \"Scriptorum Polonicorum εχατοντας\" in 1622. Later briefly Guagnini was mentioned by Franciszek Bohomolec in the fourth volume of his \"Zbior dziejopisow polskich w czterych tomach zawarty\" (\"Work collection of Polish chroniclers in four volumes\"). It is possible that the information about the Italian was based on the excerpt from the Szymon Starowolski's book. \n\nA new source was introduced for the scientific circulation by Michał Wiszniewski in the mid 19th century, which was a recommendation letter of Russian voivode Mikołaj Sieniawski for Guagninis father and son to the King of Poland Sigismund Augustus dated 25 February 1561. It contained the following phrase in Old Polish language, \"Wloch z Werony pan Ambrozy, z szynem ssvym Alexandrem\" (\"Italian out of Verona Mister Ambrosius with his son Alexander\"). In 1860 Kazimierz Józef Turowski published excerpts out of the \"Description of Sarmatian Europe\". In his brief article about life and works of the Italian he provides extended quotes of the Franciszek Bohomolec foreword to the 1768 edition. In 1887 Italian historian Carlo Cipolla published a big research \"One Italian in Poland and in Sweden on the border of the 17th century. Biographic information\" (). As a result of his search in archival storages of Venetia and Verona, the historian discovered unknown earlier sources to biography of his countryman. Among other researchers about Guagnini was Polish author Antoni Pietkiewicz who edited the Guagnini's information in the Polish \"Great General Illustrated Encyclopedia\". In general, researchers were more interested in the issue of authorship of \"Description of Sarmatian Europe\". \n\nWith a turn of the 20th century, the interest in Guagnini has dissipated. In 1960 Włodzimierz Budka edited an article about the chronicler in \"Polish biographic dictionary\" adding few more interesting details that he found in the Cracow's Archives. Based on documents from the archives, Budka discovered facts a rector's court appeal of a translator Grzegorz Czaradzki in reference of not payment by the Italian an agreed sum of money as well as a court appeal of Guagnini himself against a publisher Mikolaj Loba. In 1967 another article about Guagnini was published by Polish historian Andrzej Wyrobisz who specializes in history of Polish glass production industry.\n\nAlessandro Guagnini is of Italian origin. He was born in the city of Verona which was indicated at the publishing of his work, in Latin as Alessandri Guagnini Veronensis and in Polish as Przez Alexandra Gwagnina z Werony. \n\nMykola Kovalskyi pointed out that in literature could be met two dates of his birth. One is 1534, while the other is mostly used 1538. Ukrainian writer Oksana Pakhlyovska, a daughter of a Polish writer Jerzy Jan Pachlowski, provided both dates in the \"Ukrainian Literary Encyclopedia\". The discrepancy could be solved after checking the Verona's archives that were found by professor Carlo Cipollo. According to them, the Guagnini family was quite famous and well respected in the city. Its representatives were members of the city council as early as the 15th century. His grandfather Ambrogio Guanini de'Rizzoni in 1529 at age of 48 lived in Veronian district Ferrabo and had six children. The oldest son Ambrogio was 23 years old. During the 1541 census his age was recorded as 32 instead of 35. Along with him to the list was added a wife Bertholomea 33 y.o. and three children Francesca 9, Alessandro 7, and Clara 4. In 1545 census Alessandro is recorded as 11 year old. Cipolla recalls also a list composed in 1555 where the age of future chronicler is indicated as 20. It is probably could be explain that to the document was entered a number of full years. Regardless of it, Carlo Cipollo who entered in scientific circulation the mentioned sources argued that Guagnini was born in 1538. Some writers (i.e. Wiszniewski, Turowski, others) did not indicated his year of birth, but wrote that the chronicler died in 1614 at age 76.\n\nPractically nothing is known about childhood and adolescence of Alessandro. Possibly during that time he learned military engineering and military topography that became useful during his service in the Polish military. Without referring to sources, S.Grzybowski, Julia Radziszewska and others were pointing to his skills in topography and map drawing. Military skills Allesandro, possibly, learned already in Poland from his father Ambrogio who quoting the words of voivode Seniawski was \"a person educated in knightly affairs\". More than likely yet in Italy Guagnini learned Latin in which he was writing freely as well as adopted some humanistic ideas of Italian culture. Particularly his historic and geographical work is noted for its great tolerance towards people of other nationalities and religious background.\n\nIt is known that Ambrogio left Verona in 1555 along with his family. However, Alessandro stayed back for couple of year, possibly due to his education. Gassenkamp shared a thought that Guagnini senior left for Poland where since 1548 ruled Sigismund the Augustus, a son of Italian who was sympathetic towards former countrymen of his mother. After being able to save up some money, by 1558 Ambrogio invited his son. Gassenkamp and Budka expressed a guess that departure of Ambrogio could have been with political foundation. Grounds for that was exchange of letters between the King of Poland and the Herzog of Prussia during the winter of 1563 which included mentioning of Guagnini. Out of that Gassenkamp made a conclusion that before entering military service in Poland, Guagnini offered his service to Albrecht of Prussia.\n\nIn 1571 he received an indygenat (a type of naturalisation through adaptation of nobility) from the King of Poland. At that time Gwagnin also adapted his family coat of arms with a hedgehog (according to Włodzimierz Budka), due to his official last name \"dei Rizzoni\" where riccio in Latin means hedgehog.\n\nMaciej Stryjkowski, who was his subordinate, alleged that Guagnini stole a manuscript of the \"Chronicle of Poland, Lithuania, Samogitia and all of Ruthenia\" from him and was not the author of the book. Stryjkowski protested before the Polish king and his claims were recognized in 1580, but the book continued to be printed under Guagnini's name and was translated into Polish. An expanded edition appeared in 1611.\n\nThe chronicle included portraits of Lithuanian dukes for the first time. Despite the images being purely fictional and having nothing to do with actual dukes, anachronistic clothes and weapons, and that some of the images illustrated multiple people, the portraits highly influenced future depictions of the grand\ndukes of Lithuania. To this day they remain the most popular portraits used in many history books.\n\nCopies of the book are preserved, among other places, in the Vilnius University Library and in the Francis Skaryna Belarusian Library and Museum in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15161664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15161664", "title": "Anthropogeny", "text": "Anthropogeny\n\nAnthropogeny is the study of human origins. It is not simply a synonym for human evolution by natural selection, which is only a part of the processes involved in human origins. Many other factors besides biological evolution were involved, ranging over climatic, geographic, ecological, social, and cultural ones. Anthropogenesis, meaning the process or point of becoming human, is also called hominization.\n\nThe term \"anthropogeny\" was used in the 1839 edition of Hooper's \"Medical Dictionary\" and was defined as \"the study of the generation of man\". The term was popularized by Ernst Heinrich Haeckel (1834–1919), a German naturalist and zoologist, in his groundbreaking books, \"Natural History of Creation\" (German: \"Natürliche Schöpfungsgeschicht\") (1868) and \"The Evolution of Man\" (German: \"Anthropogenie\") (1874). Haeckel was one of the first biologists to publish on evolution. Haeckel used the term Anthropogeny to refer to the study of comparative embryology and defined it as \"the history of the evolution of man\". The term changed over time, however, and came to refer to the study of human origins.\n\nThe last use of the word \"anthropogeny\" in English literature was in 1933 by William K. Gregory. There was a gap in the usage of the term from 1933 to 2008. Anthropogeny was reintroduced in 2008 and is now back in academic use at the Center for Academic Research and Training in Anthropogeny (CARTA) at the University of California, San Diego.\n\nThe root in ancient Greek \"anthropos\" means human and \"-logia\" means discourse or study, and \"wiktionary:-genesis\" means the process of creation or origin.\n\"Anthropology\", therefore, is quite literally the study of humans, whereas \"anthropogeny\" is the breakdown of the word anthropos agai but with the link word -geny (γένη, γένος) which again literally means the study of the birth and gender of humans.\n\nAccording to the ancient Greeks who came up with the terms, anthropology is the sum of many sciences relating to the human study. There is social, economic, civil and comparative anthropology.\n\nAnthropogony derives from the word 'anthropo' again and -gony (γόνοι), meaning 'the causing of, the birth of', both in a literal and metaphorical sense, referring to what caused by human born or/and conceived/created.\n\nAnthropogeny on the other, is whatever derives from humans. -geny ('γένης᾽), meaning 'the born' or who is born of, but also the gender.\n\nAccording to Gregory (1933), anthropologists are interested in measuring and quantifying aspects of being human, whereas anthropogenists are interested in \"piecing together the broken story of the 'big parade' that nature has staged across the ages\". According to the definition of the words, Gregory's statement is wrong.\n\nSo anthropology is the study of humans and anthropogeny, is the study of what humans 'gave birth to', to its core definition, although there have been many confusions by those who do not really have an understanding of the word's origins.\n\nModern anthropology is typically divided into four sub-fields: social anthropology or cultural anthropology, biological anthropology, linguistic anthropology, and archaeology. The field of anthropology has origins in the natural sciences, humanities, and social sciences.\n\nThe field of anthropogeny is also influenced by the natural sciences, humanities, and social sciences, however, given that it is the study of the origin of humans, it is also influenced by fields ranging from anatomy and biomechanics to neurology and genetics.\n\nA comprehensive list of Domains of Scientific Discipline relevant to anthropogeny can be found in the Matrix of Comparative Anthropogeny (MOCA), associated with the Center for Academic Research and Training in Anthropogeny (CARTA), at the University of California, San Diego.\n\n"}
{"id": "39903298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39903298", "title": "Arbayistan", "text": "Arbayistan\n\nArbāyistān (, Zoroastrian Middle Persian: \"Arwāstān\", Syriac: \"Bēṯ ʿArbāyē\", Armenian: \"Arvastan\") was a Sasanian province in Late Antiquity. Due to its situation and its road systems, the province was a source of income from commercial traffic, as well as a constant area of contention during the Roman-Persian wars.\n\nThe province reached across Upper Mesopotamia toward the Khabur and north to the lower districts of Armenia; it bordered Adiabene in the east, Armenia in the north and Asōristān in the south.\n\n\"Arbāyistān\" (Old Persian: \"Arabāya-stāna)\" is mentioned in Shapur I's inscription on Ka'ba-ye Zartosht. According to historian Widengren, the name was lent from the Arabs inhabitant of Upper Mesopotamia. The term \"Arbāyastān\" literally means \"The Land of Arabia/Arab\", where \"Arbāy\" or \"Arabāya\" is (\"Arabia\") and the suffix \"-istān\" (\"Land of\"). Although the name \"Arbāyistān\" appears to be used when referring to northern Mesopotamia, Osroene was not included.\n\nThe province was formed in 363 after the 2nd Peace of Nisibis, composed of the concessions made by Roman Emperor Jovian, which encompassed all Roman territory east of the Tigris that had been ceded by the Sasanians in the 1st Peace of Nisibis in 299. This included the former Armenian provinces of Corduene, Zabdicene, Arzanene and Moxoene as well as Nisibis and Singara. As part of the treaty, the Romans were allowed to evacuate the inhabitants of the cities of Nisibis and Singara, and this led to the mass exodus of the entire populations of both cities to Roman territories to avoid imprisonment and deportation by the Sasanians. This also caused the Christian School of Nisibis to move to Edessa. In the 360s, Shapur II divided the office of marzban between his brothers Zamasp and Adurfrazgird and they were granted responsibility for the northern and southern halves of the province respectively.\n\nAs a result of the Peace of Acilisene of 387, Armenia was divided between the Eastern Roman and Sasanian Empires and the majority of Arzanene was given to the Romans, aside from the canton of Arzan itself. In the fourth century, 12,000 Persians from Staxr, Spāhān and other regions were settled in Nisibis to act as mainly military garrisons. At the close of the fourth century, in 395, the Huns breached the Caspian Gates and swarmed through the east, plundering Armenia and Eastern Roman Cappadocia, Cilicia and Syria undisturbed until moving to raid Sasanian Arbayistan in 398.\n\nDuring the Roman–Sasanian War of 421–422, the magister militum per Orientem, Ardaburius, invaded and plundered Arzanene in 421. Ardaburius engaged and defeated the Sasanian grand vizier, Mihr Narseh, and with reinforcements besieged Nisibis. The army of Al-Mundhir I, an ally of the Sasanians, who had been sent to relieve Nisibis, was defeated by Ardaburius beneath the walls and dispersed. Ardaburius' victory over Al-Mundhir I led the new Shah, Bahram V, to end his siege of Theodosiopolis and march to relieve Nisibis, causing the Romans to abandon the siege.\n\nFrom 464 to 471, a famine struck Mesopotamia which devastated the crops and ruined the country. Sources say that the wells became dry and that there was not a trickle of water either in the Tigris or the Euphrates. Eventually the crops failed and thousands perished. In 483, a severe drought affected the region and lasted for two years, during which time tensions between the Romans and Persians heightened as Arab nomads allied to the Persians raided Roman territory, causing the Romans to assemble an army on the frontier to counter such raids. The situation was defused, however, by the marzban of Nisibis and Nestorian metropolitan bishop of Nisibis, Barsauma. Three years into the reign of Kavadh I, in 491, an uprising in Armenia encouraged the Qadishaye tribesmen south of Singara to revolt and besiege Nisibis.\nAt the time of the Anastasian War, Kavadh I besieged and sacked the city of Amida in 503, and resettled the population in Singara. The loss of Amida spurred the Roman emperor Anastasius I Dicorus to send reinforcements to the Persian border, however, a Roman army that crossed over into Arzanene was defeated. In the spring of 504, the Roman general Celer invaded Arbayistan and conducted raids against fortified settlements, seizing several forts and plundering the province, killing farmers and livestock alike.\nIn the mid-summer of 527, at the onset of the Iberian War and as overt fighting broke out between the Romans and Sasanians, a Roman army under the command of Libelarius of Thrace, dux Mesopotamiae and magister militum per Orientem, invaded Arbayistan with the intent of capturing Nisibis and the fortress of Thebetha. Libelarius, however, refrained from engaging the Sasanians or looting and despite facing no opposition, withdrew to Dara with heavy losses having achieved nothing, and upon his return was replaced as magister militum per orientum by Belisarius. Towards the end of the war, in 531, Belisarius led an army into Arbayistan and won a battle at the fortress of Sisauranon and managed to capture its commander, Bleschames.\n\nAs part of the state implemented persecution of non-Chalcedonians, in late 536, the Patriarch of Antioch, Ephraim of Antioch, bribed the marzban of Nisibis, Mihrdaden, to arrest John of Tella who had been residing on Mount Singara. John was arrested and held in Nisibis for 30 days under the accusation of living in Sasanian territory illegally and was handed over to the Romans at the border fortress of Dara. Upon the invasion of Roman Syria in 540 by Khosrau I, Belisarius was recalled from Italy to respond to the Sasanian threat. He arrived in Mesopotamia in 541 and besieged Nisibis, however Belisarius could not take the city and subsequently plundered the surrounding countryside. The following year, Khosrau returned from Lazica and invaded Roman Syria; during his invasion Khosrau sacked Callinicum and resettled prisoners in Arbayistan.\n\nAt the beginning of the Byzantine–Sasanian War of 572–591, in late 572, a small Byzantine army of 3000 infantrymen were dispatched by Marcian, magister militum per orientum, to Arzanene where they laid waste and plundered the region before returning to Dara. In the spring of 573, a Byzantine army under the command of Marcian departed from Dara and defeated a Persian army led by Baramanes at the town of Sagathon, west of Nisibis, and moved south to besiege the fortress of Thebetha, however, Marcian returned to Dara after spending 10 days besieging the fort without success. Marcian, under orders from the Byzantine Emperor Justin II, besieged the city of Nisibis until he was dismissed by Justin II as he felt he was taking too long to take the city. The majority of Byzantine soldiers returned to Dara, and a body of soldiers that remained at the camp were defeated by a Persian army.\n\nKhosrau I's conquest of the city of Dara later that year reportedly drove Justin II to insanity, and led to a declaration of a truce on the Mesopotamian front which was to last 5 years. The truce came to an end in 578 when Sasanian raids in Byzantine territory was met by Byzantine raids in Arbayistan led by the new magister militum per orientum, Maurice, who also sacked Singara, and according to historian Theophylact Simocatta, liberated 10,090 Armenian prisoners in Arzanene, of whom about 3,350 were relocated to Cyprus. He also captured the fortress of Aphumon. Sasanian attempts to sue for peace after Maurice's campaign in Arbayistan in 579 failed and the following year, the Byzantine armies successfully marched through Arbayistan unopposed into Media and Assuristan before returning in the summer of 581 along the Euphrates in southern Arbayistan, sacking Anathon during their campaign.\n\nByzantine raids and Sasanian counter-raids continued for the next eight years inconclusively until the Byzantine general, Philippicus, invaded Arzanene and besieged the fortress of Chlomaron in spring of 586. However, the approach of a Persian relief army panicked the Byzantines, who fled in disorder back into Byzantine territory. In the autumn of 589, a Byzantine army under Comentiolus won a battle at the fortress of Sisauranon. At the end of the war, Corduene, Aghdzen canton and Zabdicene was annexed by the Byzantine Empire in return for assisting Khosrau II regain the throne from the usurper, Bahram VI. The city of Nisibis was one of the first to support Khosrau and a joint Byzantine-Sasanian campaign defeated an army of Bahram near Nisibis in early 591.\n\nNot long after the end of the Byzantine–Sasanian War of 572–591, a locust plague ravaged the countryside of the province from 591 to 595, in which locusts are said to have destroyed crops and fouled water supplies. The ensuing food shortages and famine caused many to migrate to neighbouring regions, whilst those less able were forced to resort to begging in nearby cities. This led to the abandonment of many villages and hamlets throughout Arbayistan. Some survived the plague by collecting and eating the locusts or by planting \"small vegetables\" such as summer peas and cucumbers.\n\nUpon the end of the Byzantine–Sasanian War of 602–628, Heraclius travelled through Arbayistan as part of the agreed withdrawal from Sasanian territory. After the Muslim victory at the Battle of Jalula in April 637, Muslim forces marched north and established control over Sasanian Upper Mesopotamia, and annexed Arbayistan in 638.\n\nArbayistan's position on the Silk Road provided the province with a large income derived from custom-houses along the roads as well as from traffic on the rivers. The goods that came with it:silks and spices from the Indian and Arabian sea-trade assembled at Nisibis before it was sold to Roman merchants. The silk trade, which supplied the weaving industry of Syria, was especially lucrative and continued to thrive despite the threat of Arab raids along the roads.\n\nAlso, the Sasanian control of the two major East-West highways and excellent road system made the province easily accessible for trade.\n\nThe population of Arbayistan was primarily composed of Arameans, who spoke the Aramaic language, and shared the province with Jews, Arabs, Armenians and Iranians. Many Arabs lived as nomads throughout the province, however they are known to have also thrived in the city of Hatra. Armenians could be found largely in the north of Arbayistan, in the districts of Arzanene, whilst Iranian tribes lived in the north-eastern districts of Corduene.\n\n"}
{"id": "9342583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9342583", "title": "Caterina Magni", "text": "Caterina Magni\n\nCaterina Magni (born 1966) is an Italian-born French archaeologist and anthropologist, who specialises in the study of pre-Columbian cultures of Mesoamerica, and in particular the iconography, art and mythology and religion of the Olmec civilization. From 2001 Magni has held a \"Maître de conférences\" position in Mesoamerican archaeology at the , Paris. \n\nMagni has authored a number of articles on Olmec iconography for scientific journals, and two books.\n\nShe is a member of the \"Société Archéologique du Midi de la France\" (SAMF).\n\nPublished works by Magni include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3142720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3142720", "title": "Cessetani", "text": "Cessetani\n\nThe Cessetani were an ancient Iberian (Pre-Roman) people of the Iberian peninsula (the Roman Hispania). They are believed to have spoken the Iberian language. Their territory extended along the coast between the Coll de Balaguer and the Garraf Massif and was limited in the west by the Prades Mountains.\n\nOne of their main cities was Tarraco, modern day Tarragona. Although there are no remains visible of the Cessetani civilization, you can visit the Roman remains of a theater, a stadium and a Roman city wall. The Roman ruins of Tarraco are also listed on Unesco. Tarraco was captured by the Romans in 218 BC, after the Battle of Cissa, in which Gnaeus Cornelius Scipio triumphed over the Carthaginians during the beginning of the Second Punic War.\n\nThe Cessetani minted their own coins, almost ever only with the name of one of their main cities, \"kese\", but a few bore the inscription \"kesesken\" in northeastern Iberian script that is interpreted in Iberian language as a self-reference to the ethnic name of that people: from the Cessetani or from those of \"kese\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10675917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10675917", "title": "Crown gold", "text": "Crown gold\n\nCrown gold is a 22 karat (kt) gold alloy used in the crown coin introduced in England in 1526 (by Henry VIII) to replace the earlier gold sovereign coins which were made from the softer 23 kt gold and which thereby had invited both deliberate filing and also non-intentional wear. The 22 kt standard has been used for British gold coins ever since this change which is 91.667% gold (or 22 parts out of 24).\n\nThe alloying metal in England was and is traditionally copper-only, although a component of 1.25% silver replacing the same weight of copper, as a softening agent, was briefly used in gold sovereigns in the single year of 1887, for better production of an image of Queen Victoria for the Golden Jubilee of her reign. Crown gold with copper as the only alloying metal other than gold, remains the standard used in the British gold sovereign, which is still minted.\n\nIn the United States, gold circulating coins were minted in 22 kt. gold alloy of crown gold purity, until 1834. These pre-1834 U.S. coins differed from their English counterparts in containing a significant component (about 6%) of silver. \n\nIn 1834, the fineness of U.S. coin gold was decreased from 22 kt to 0.8992 fine (21.58 kt) to discourage coin melting. In 1837, all silver was removed from U.S. gold coins and the gold content increased slightly to 0.900 fine (21.60 kt exactly). This 90% gold-copper alloy continued in the U.S. from 1837 until gold coins were removed from circulation in the U.S. in 1933. Before the mid twentieth century, all gold coins were intended to circulate as money and therefore contained either 90% gold or a 22 kt crown gold type alloy. Bullion coins were subsequently designed as collectable and not for circulation, which could be much more pure, since wear-problems were not an issue. Some of these gold bullion coins are pure gold of 24 kt, 0.999, 0.9999, or even 0.99999 fine (see Canadian Maple Leaf).\n\nThe South African Krugerrand, first produced in 1967, and the first of these modern coins, was produced in the exact traditional crown gold recipe of 22 kt gold (remainder copper), because it was originally intended to circulate as coin currency. The Krugerrand is now considered primarily a bullion coin, and as such has no face value imprinted on it. A few other gold bullion coins never intended for circulation have also been produced for \"purely historical reasons\" in the traditional crown gold purity, including the gold sovereign (in exact gold/copper historical ratio), as well as now the American Gold Eagle series of bullion coins, the latter which again now follows the original (pre-1834) 22 kt or 0.91667 fine gold standard (although its silver content of 3% is somewhat different from that of any coin the U.S. had ever previously produced). The specific gravity of the gold alloy used for Krugerrand and American Eagle is 17.77.\n\n"}
{"id": "4674608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4674608", "title": "Dmitry Yurasov", "text": "Dmitry Yurasov\n\nDmitry Gennadievich Yurasov () (born 25 June 1964 in Moscow) is a Russian historian and human rights defender. Starting from age sixteen, he has been gathering information about victims of Soviet political repressions, those who were imprisoned, executed, died in detention, or went missing. He began his research in 1981 while working in the state archives as a \"paleaographer, second rank\". He secretly studied the files of those who had been killed, collecting eventually 123,000 cards from a register that, according to his estimate, amounted to 16 million files. While still only a student, he first publicly mentioned his results at a historical seminar in the central writers' building in Moscow on April 30, 1987. They caused quite a sensation, which resulted in his access to the archives being blocked, but also in many offers of help from volunteers all over the Soviet Union.\n\nAfter graduating from the History Department, he has been working in various archives, including those of the USSR Supreme Court. This work provided him with more opportunities to expand his research. In February 1993, he was said to have as many as 430,000 files on people imprisoned or executed.\n\nDimitry Yurasov is mentioned in David Remnick's \"\" book, where Remnick offers a hike to Yurasov.\n\nAccording to Walter Laqueur, who mentions him in his 1990 book \"Stalin - The Glasnost Revelations\", Yurasov gave TV interviews on the programs \"Vzglyad\" and with \"Sobesednik\" and \"Sovetskaya molodyozh\" on December 24, 1988. He was also published in \"Sovetskaya bibliografiya 5\", pp. 61–67, in 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1730162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1730162", "title": "Eaglesham", "text": "Eaglesham\n\nEaglesham ( ) is a village in East Renfrewshire, Scotland, situated about 10 miles south of Glasgow, to the southeast of Newton Mearns, south of Clarkston, and southwest of East Kilbride.\n\nThe 2011 census revealed that the village had 3,114 occupants, down 13 from the 2001 census (3,127). Eaglesham is distinctive in being built around the Orry, an area of common land about one-third of a mile in length, interspersed with trees and divided in the centre by the Eaglesham Burn. The ancient seat of the Earls of Eglinton. In the 17th century Eaglesham was a small market town. Today's village was founded in 1769 by Alexander Montgomerie, 10th Earl of Eglinton. It had at one time handloom weaving and a cotton-mill. Many of its buildings are grade 'B' or 'C' listed but, as a whole, the village is 'A' listed. Eaglesham was designated Scotland's first outstanding conservation area in 1960. It is likely that there has been a place of worship here since the 5th or 6th centuries.\n\nThe village is an example of an early Scottish planned village.\n\nThe origin of the name Eaglesham is a ‘Settlement with a church or belonging to a church’. It is an Old English name, containing Old English hām ‘a settlement’ (Scots hame, English home). The first element is ultimately a Brittonic word for ‘church’, a loan-word from Latin ecclesia.\n\nThe parish of Eaglesham formed part of the district of Mearns, and together with other lands were bestowed to Walter fitz Alan, Steward of Scotland, a member of the FitzAlan family, by David I. It is almost certain that Walter granted Eaglesham to Robert de Montgomerie , one of his principal followers, who appears to have originated from the Shropshire lands of the FitzAlans. Earls of Eaglesham, Eglinton and Ardrossan\n\nSituated in the Orry, is the Motte or Moot Hill, a flat-topped mound situated on the north-west bank of the Eaglesham Burn in the Orry used for judicial and local assemblies.\n\nIn 1361, Sir John de Montgomerie of Eaglesham and Eastwood married Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Hugh de Eglinton of that Ilk and niece of King Robert II. Sir John obtained the baronies of Eglinton and Ardrossan upon Sir Hugh's death in 1374. Afterwards the Montgomeries made Eglinton Estate their chief residence. In 1388, Sir John de Montgomerie captured Henry, Lord Percy at the Battle of Otterburn. It is traditionally believed that Sir John accepted a ransom for his prisoner who killed the 2nd Earl of Douglas and built Polnoon Castle on a small hillock on what appears to be an earlier motte. Polnoon castle was refurbished for occupation in 1617 but was ruined by 1676.\n\nFollowing a period of peace and relative stability in Scotland during the reign of King James VI, religion continued to be a major issue. The Covenanter movement resulted from an attempt by King Charles I to impose a new prayer book and regulations on the Scottish Church. The population of Renfrewshire was predominantly in favour of the National Covenant and Alexander, 6th Earl of Eglinton signed the covenant. Covenanters faced steep fines or even the threat of execution for expressing their faith and held their religious services in secret. A memorial to Covenanters Robert Lockhart and Gabriel Thomson who were shot by Highlandmen and Dragoons for their adherence to the Solemn League and Covenant as they returned from a conventicle in May 1685, stands in the kirkyard of Eaglesham Parish Church.\n\nAlexander, 8th Earl of Eglinton obtained an Act of Parliament in 1672 for an annual fair and weekly market. By the time the New Statistical Account for Scotland was published in 1845 the weekly market had long been discontinued and a flower show was held in place of fairs. The fair was revived in 1961 and in recent years is held bi-annually in May or June and traditionally opens with a procession parading through the village.\n\nUntil the 18th century, Scotland's villages were little more than settlements loosely organised around fermtouns. In 1769 Alexander, 10th Earl of Eglinton, began the work of developing the old kirktoun of Eaglesham into a planned village. However it was his successor, Archibald, 11th Earl of Eglinton, who largely saw Alexander's plans through to completion. The Earl planned his new village with two ranges of houses built around the Orry, an area of common land (Orry is from the Scots word, aurie meaning area), interspersed with trees and divided in the centre by the Eaglesham Burn. Tacks were offered on 900 year leases on condition that a house was built on a tack within five years. Tenants were allowed to use the Linn Burn for washing and the green for bleaching. As a result of agricultural improvements, displaced workers became tradesmen or weavers in the village.\n\nEaglesham flourished during the age of agricultural and industrial improvements. Surgeons, shopkeepers and traders such as coopers; grocers; wrights; smiths; boot and shoe-makers; tailors and dressmakers, inn-keepers and vintners supplied the needs and demands of the increasing population. Churches met the religious needs of the inhabitants. Schools provided education and carriers transported goods to and from the markets at Glasgow and Paisley.\n\nHandloom weaving became the main industry until the establishment of a water powered cotton spinning mill in the village in 1791. The Orry mill at its peak employed around 200 people with the machinery at one time driven by a 45-foot diameter cast iron water wheel. The mill burned down and was rebuilt several times before being destroyed by fire in 1876 and was never rebuilt. Without work many of the mill workers drifted away and their homes lay empty. The population of the village dropped from 2,428 in the mid-19th century to 1,075 at the end of the century.\n\nAfter seven centuries of ownership, the Montgomerie family's finances foundered and Eaglesham Estate was put on the market in 1835. The Estate was finally sold for £217,000 in 1844 to Allan Gilmour, Sr. and James Gilmour. Shortly afterwards the estate was divided into two parts roughly by value, in proportion to the money each contributed. The larger part was Eaglesham Estate which was run by Allan and the smaller, Polnoon Estate, run by James.\n\nEast Renfrewshire Council's archives hold an unpublished manuscript \"Graham's Eaglesham Essay\" which details the history of the village at this time.\n\nBy the early 20th century, The Eaglesham Estates were heavily burdened and together with the considerable debts left by Allan Gilmour were advertised for sale in the late 1920s. Angus Gilmour transferred the common area of the village of Eaglesham in 1929 to the parish council at his death. By the late 1930s many of the houses were in a state of disrepair. A letter-writing campaign was started and by the 1950s a worldwide appeal was launched for funds towards Eaglesham’s conservation. Such was the success of the campaign, that the village was designated Scotland's first outstanding conservation area on 12 August 1960.\nA remarkable event during World War II was the landing of Rudolf Hess at Eaglesham on 10 May 1941. Shortly after 11 p.m. a Messerschmitt Bf 110 aircraft crashed at Bonnyton Farm with an airman bailing out and landing at Floors Farm. David McLean, a local ploughman, ran out of his cottage at the rear of Floors Farm after hearing an aeroplane crashing and saw a parachutist coming down. McLean assisted the slightly injured airman back to his cottage. The airman, a German officer, identified himself as Captain Albert Horn. Horn was arrested and subsequently taken to the 3 Battalion Home Guard Headquarters at Busby then briefly Giffnock Police Station before being transferred to Maryhill Barracks in Glasgow and other locations before finally being to transported to P.O.W. Reception Station, Abergavenny, South Wales where he remained for the duration of the hostilities. Horn turned out be Deputy Führer Rudolf Hess. Hess apparently claimed that he had flown to Britain with a message for the Duke of Hamilton in an attempt to persuade the British government to restore peace but in poor light mistook his intended destination of Dungavel House near Strathaven as Eaglesham House. Hess was tried as a war criminal at Nuremberg where an International Military Tribunal found him guilty on two counts of 'concerted plan or conspiracy' and 'crimes against peace'. He spent the rest of his life imprisoned in Spandau Prison, Berlin.\n\nEaglesham Heritage Trail opened on 3 September 2011, a project of Eaglesham & Waterfoot Community Development Trust. The trail consists of ten interpretation panels located throughout the village, explaining the history of the area from the 11th century to the present day. The trail was opened by the Earl and the Countess of Eglinton and Winton. The funding for this project was given by ERC LEADER Fund and Lottery Awards For All. Eaglesham History Society was established in September 2012 following on from the success of the Heritage Trail. The village today is served by a primary school, churches, library and a number of local services such as garages, shops, restaurant, tearooms, B&Bs and the historic Eglinton Arms Hotel and Swan Inn. Linn Products operate a state-of-the-art Hi-Fi production plant on the site of the former Eaglesham House. The majority of children of secondary school age attend either Mearns Castle School, Newton Mearns or St Ninian’s High School, Giffnock; state schools which have consistently ranked among the best in Scotland over many years. Clubs and societies include Eaglesham Amateurs football team, Eaglesham Angling Association Angling, Eaglesham Bowling Club and Walton Angling Club. The opening of the Glasgow Southern Orbital Road in 2005 generated considerable environmental benefits by reducing through traffic and creating a cleaner, safer environment for the local community.\n\nIt is probable that there has been a place of worship here since the 5th or 6th century. The present church was designed by Robert McLachlane and completed in 1790. The church was originally a small octagonal building and later extended. A memorial to Covenanters Robert Lockhart and Gabriel Thomson who were shot by Highlandmen and Dragoons under the command of Archibald MacAulay, laird of Ardincaple for their adherence to the Solemn League and Covenant as they returned from a coventicle on 1 May 1685, stands in the kirkyard. The Rev Andrew Robertson was inducted as the parish minister in May 2016.\nIn 1857, a Roman Catholic church was established mainly for Irish immigrant workers in the cotton mill and farms. St. Bridget, born in 451 at Faughart near Dundalk is the patroness of the church. The church has a huge canvas of the Deposition of Christ from the Cross by de Surne. \n\nPolnoon Lodge, a prominent building in Gilmour Street, was originally built as a hunting lodge in the early 18th century by Alexander, ninth Earl of Eglinton after Polnoon Castle was abandoned. The original house was built in 1733, the present B-Listed house however dates to the later 18th century. Following the sale of the Eaglesham Estate in 1844 to Allan and James Gilmour, the lodge was used as the Polnoon Estate office for a short period of time before being let. By the 1920s the lodge operated as a temperance hotel and later on as a boarding house. An annexe was used as a meeting room for local groups and societies. The lodge lay empty by the 1960s and was renovated by Renfrew County Council as housing for the elderly. The restoration work won a Civic Trust Award in 1971. One of the houses in Cheapside Street is a miniature of the lodge and was once occupied by the Eaglesham Estate factor.\n\nMontgomery Street was once known as South Street and commemorates the Montgomeries, the Earls of Eglinton and later Earls of Winton who owned Eaglesham Estate for seven centuries. \n\nPolnoon Street was once known as North Street and borrows its name from Polnoon Estate. Sir John de Montgomerie built a castle at Polnoon with the poind money that he received for the release of Lord Percy following the Battle of Otterburn.\n\nA motte beside the Linn Burn (NS5751) in the Orry is a flat-topped mound situated on the north-west bank of the Eaglesham Burn. It is known locally as Moot Hill. The south-east side was truncated in the late 18th century by the building of the Orry cotton spinning mill, resulting in the removal of at least a third of the site. It was used by the local community as a site for meetings and festivals.\n\nThe Deil's Wood cairn stands on the summit of a low but prominent ridge 350 metres east of Bonnyton farmsteading.\n\n"}
{"id": "43286554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43286554", "title": "Edward Joshua Cooper", "text": "Edward Joshua Cooper\n\nEdward Joshua Cooper (May 1798 – 23 April 1863) was an Irish landowner, politician and astronomer from Markree Castle in County Sligo. He sat in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom from 1830 to 1841 and from 1857 to 1859, but is best known for his astronomy, and as the creator of Markree Observatory.\n\nCooper was the oldest son of Edward Synge Cooper MP (1762–1830), and his wife Anne Verelst, daughter of Bengal Governor Harry Verelst.\nHe was educated at The Royal School in Armagh, at Eton, and then at Christ Church, Oxford.\n\nHis first marriage was to Sophia L'Estrange, daughter of Colonel Henry Peisley L'Estrange of Moystown, Cloghan, County Offaly. They had no children, but he had five daughters with his second wife Sarah Frances Wynne, daughter of Owen Wynne MP of Hazelwood House, Sligo.\n\nCooper left Oxford after two years without taking a degree. He spent most of the next decade travelling abroad, pursuing an interest in astronomy which is believed to have been nurtured by his mother, and was developed as a schoolboy in Armagh on visits to the Armagh Observatory.\nHe travelled with portable instruments, which he used to calculate the latitudes and longitudes of the places visited and assess their potential for astronomical observation. He accumulated a mass of geographical data, which he never published.\n\nHis early travels took him to the Mediterranean and Egypt, then eastward to Turkey and Persia. In 1824–5 he crossed Denmark, Sweden, and Norway, as far as the North Cape. He concluded that Munich and Nice were the best adapted spots in Europe for astronomical observation.\n\nWhen his father died in 1830, he succeeded him as manager of Markree Castle and estate on behalf of his father's deranged older brother Joshua Edward Cooper. When Joshua Edward died childless in 1837,\nhe inherited Markree.\n\nOnce established as manager, he began creating facilities for astronomy, which became Markree Observatory. In 1831 he bought for £1200\nthe largest object-glass which existed at the time.\nMade by the French optician Cauchoix, it had an aperture of 13⅓ inches () across and a focal length of 25 feet ().\nThe telescope initially mounted on a wooden stand, but the arrival of the great lens had caught the attention of Dr Thomas Romney Robinson, who had become director of the Armagh Observatory in 1823, and become a friend of Cooper's\nAt Robinson's suggestion, the telescope was removed its temporary alt-azimuth stand, and mounted equatorially by Thomas Grubb of Dublin,\nwith the innovation of a cast iron tube and stand,\ninstead of the wooden mountings previously used.\n(This was the first major commission for Grubb, who was assiduously promoted by Robinson, and went on to become a noted producer of telescopes for observatories all around the world).\nHowever, it was thought impractical to build a dome of the required size, so the instrument was set up outdoors, and remained uncovered.\nCooper used the telescope to sketch Halley's Comet in 1835 and to view the solar eclipse of 15 May 1836.\n\nThe observatory was expanded with a five-foot transit by Troughton, and a meridian-circle three feet in diameter, fitted with a seven-inch telescope which had been ordered in 1839 on a visit to the works of Ertel in Bavaria. In 1842 he bought a comet-seeker, also made by Ertel. By 1851 Markree was described as \"undoubtedly the most richly furnished of private observatories\".\n\nCooper's own diligent work in the observatory was joined in March 1842 by an assistant, Andrew Graham, who gave a fresh impulse to its activity. In 1842 to and 1843 the two men worked together to accurately record the positions of fifty stars within two degrees of the pole.\nGraham began systematic observations of minor planets on the meridian.\n\nThe latitude and longitude of Markree were calculated in 1841 by a joint exercise with Armagh.\nIn 1837, Robinson had obtained rockets from the Board of Ordnance at Woolwich, and a total of 76 rockets were fired from Slieve Gullion (a mountain in County Armagh) on five night between 14 May and 23 May.\nThe rockets were simultaneously observed from Armagh Observatory and Dunsink Observatory in County Dublin, and the data used to calculate latitude and longitude.\nThe same technique was used again in August 1841 to determine Markee's location. Rockets were fired from Culkagh Mountain, about 6 miles north-east of Lough Allen, and the precise moment of their extinction was observed at both Markree and Armagh. The results varied by only 0.03 seconds from the average of 15 chronometers lent by Dent of London.\n\nSimilar principles were applied on 10–12 August 1847, to calculate the difference of longitude between Markree and Killiney, ninety-eight miles away in County Dublin. This time, shooting stars were simultaneous observed by Cooper in Killiney and Graham at Markree.\n\nOn 25 April 1848, Graham used the Ertel comet seeker at Markree to discover a ninth minor planet.\nIt was named \"9 Metis\" at the suggestion of the late Dr. Robinson, because its detection had ensued from the adoption of a plan of work laid down by Cooper.\n9 Metis was the only asteroid ever discovered by observation from Ireland,\nuntil the 2008 discovery of TM9.\n\nMeteorological registers were continuously kept at Markree during thirty years from 1833, many of the results being communicated to the Meteorological Society. In 1844–5 Cooper and Graham made an astronomical tour through France, Germany, and Italy. They brought the great refractor, which was mounted on a wooden stand with altitude and azimuth movements, was usd by Cooper to sketch the Orion nebula. On 7 February 1845 he used it to detect independently at Naples, a comet which had already been observed in the southern hemisphere.\n\nFrom the time that the possibility of further planetary discoveries had been recalled to the attention of astronomers by the finding of Astræa 8 Dec 1845, Cooper had it in view to extend the star-maps then in progress at Berlin, so as to include stars of the twelfth or thirteenth magnitude. A detailed acquaintance with ecliptical stars, however, was indispensable for the facilitation of planetary research—Cooper's primary object—and the Berlin maps covered only an equatorial zone of thirty degrees. He accordingly resolved upon the construction of a set of ecliptical star-charts of four times the linear dimensions of the 'Horæ' prepared at Berlin. Observations for the purpose were begun in August 1848, and continued until Graham's resignation in June 1860. The results were printed at government expense in four volumes with the title 'Catalogue of Stars near the Ecliptic observed at Markree' (Dublin, 1851–6). The approximate places were contained in them of 60,066 stars (epoch 1850) within three degrees of the ecliptic, only 8,965 of which were already known. A list of seventy-seven stars missing from recent catalogues, or lost in the course of the observations, formed an appendix of curious interest. The maps corresponding to this extensive catalogue presented by his daughters after Cooper's death to the university of Cambridge, have hitherto remained unpublished. Nor has a promised fifth volume of star places been forthcoming. For this notable service to astronomy, in which he took a large personal share, Cooper received in 1858 the Cunningham gold medal of the Royal Irish Academy. He had been a member of that body from 1832, and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society 2 June 1853.\n\nCooper had observed and sketched Halley's comet in 1835; Mauvais' comet of 1844 was observed and its orbit calculated by him during a visit to Schloss Weyerburg, near Innsbrück (Astr. Nach. xxii. 131,209). The elements and other data relative to 198 such bodies, gathered from scattered sources during several years, were finally arranged and published by him in a volume headed 'Cometic Orbits, with copious Notes and Addenda' (Dublin, 1852). Although partially anticipated by Galle's list of 178 sets of elements appended to the 1847 edition of Olbers's 'Abhandlung,' the physical and historical information collected in the notes remained of permanent value, and constituted the work a most useful manual of reference. The preface contains statistics of the distribution in longitude of the perihelia and nodes of both planetary and cometary orbits, showing what seemed more than a chance aggregation in one semicircle. Communications on the same point were presented by him to the Royal Astronomical Society in 1853 (Monthly Notices, xiv. 68), to the Royal Society in 1855 (Proc. vii. 295), and to the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1858 (Report, ii. 27).\n\nAt the 1830 general election, Cooper was returned as one of the two members of parliament (MPs) for Sligo County. His family had held one of the two Sligo seats for most of the previous century; his father, who had held the seat until the dissolution, died during the 3 days of polling.\n\nThe county's politics were dominated by the interests of its large Protestant landowners. The Wynne family of Hazelwood controlled Sligo Borough, while the county representation reflected the strength of the Coopers, the O'Haras of Annaghmore, and the Percevals of Temple House in County Sligo. At the dissolution, the second Sligo seat was held by Henry King, brother of Viscount Lorton. However, these two Protestant Tories were challenged by an independent interest which sought the return of \"liberal and enlightened representatives\".\n\nThe candidate of the independents was Fitzstephen French of Frenchpark in Roscommon, brother of Arthur French MP. Unlike the sitting MPs, French supported Catholic emancipation, and proclaimed his adherence \"not to the principles of Whig or Tory, but to the principles of Irishmen\". As part of the compromise which had secured the enactment of the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829, the Forty Shilling Freeholders had been disenfranchised. However, with the property qualification for voting quintupled to £10, the number of voters in County Sligo fell from over 5,000 to just over 600. French's challenge was defeated; King was re-elected with 390 votes, and Cooper topped the poll with 465 votes to French's 116.\n\nIn Parliament, Cooper opposed Earl Grey's reform bill in at its second reading in March 1831, but a few days later he presented a petition from Sligo borough which supported reform. In April he presented an anti-reform petition from Sligo County, and voted for the wrecking amendment which sank the bill and brought down the government. A few days before the crucial vote he had told the Commons that the bill would cause \"the total annihilation of Protestantism, by the increased influence in elections which it gives to the Catholics\".\n\nAt the resulting general election in May 1831, Cooper condemned the failed reform bill as rushed, and again topped the poll,\nWhen the revised Reform Bill came before the Commons, he voted against it at both the second and third readings.\nHe was returned unopposed in 1832 and 1835, and stood down in 1841, before returning in 1857 for one parliament.\n\nCooper played a significant part in the editorial work of the third edition of the pseudohistorical anti-Catholic pamphlet The Two Babylons by Alexander Hislop. The tract alleges that the Catholic Church is a veiled continuation of the pagan religion of Babylon, a product of a millennia-old conspiracy. All of the book's major claims have been thoroughly refuted by modern scholarship.\n\nThe book's preface extensively praises an anonymous collaborator. Cooper wanted to remain anonymous when the book went to press, but by the seventh edition a footnote identified him as mystery editor. Hislop praises Cooper's meticulous attention to detail, his extensive library and his views on Christianity, and thanks him for \"the incalculable value of the service which the extraordinary labours of my kind and disinterested friend have rendered to the cause of universal Protestantism.\"\n\nCooper died aged 64 on 28 April 1863. He was buried in a vault at the Church of Ireland church in Ballisodare,\nalongside his second wife, Sarah, who had died shortly before him.\nAccording to William Doberck, who began work at the observatory a decade later, he had been a kind and improving landlord.\nThe \"Cork Examiner\" described him as \"celebrated for his scientific attainments, moral worth and estimable character\".\nThe Obituary Notice in the Proceedings of the Royal Society, 1864 said he \"was a kind and good landlord, making great exertions to educate and improve his numerous tenantry. His personal qualities were of a high order. Blameless and fascinating in private life, he was a sincere Christian, no mean poet, an accomplished linguist, an exquisite musician, and possessed a wide and varied range of general information.\"\n\nHis estates were inherited by his nephew Edward Henry Cooper, who initially neglected the observatory, before appointing a series of directors.\nThe observatory was restored under Doberck's supervision from 1874, but was used mainly for meteorological investigation. When Edward Henry Cooper died in 1902, the observatory was closed and its great lens sent to the Hong Kong Observatory. The observatory's library was converted into a garage, and its books dumped into a hole in the floor of a neighbouring room, which was exposed to rain through an uncovered slit in the roof.\n"}
{"id": "2348298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2348298", "title": "Enrique Krauze", "text": "Enrique Krauze\n\nEnrique Krauze Kleinbort (b. September 17, 1947 in Mexico City), widely known as Enrique Krauze, is a Mexican public intellectual, historian, essayist, critic, producer, and publisher. He has written numerous books about the Mexican Revolution and leading figures in Mexican history, as well as economic analysis of the nation's history. The journalist Jon Lee Anderson describes him as \"arguably [Mexico]'s most prominent public intellectual\".\n\nKrauze founded \"Editorial Clío\" publishing house in 1992. He also manages and operates the Documentary Production Company Clío TV; the combined company is Editorial Clío Libros y Videos. He has produced two major TV series on Mexican history, which were also shown in the United States. In 1999 he founded what has become a prominent cultural magazine \"Letras Libres,\" which is distributed in several Spanish-speaking countries. \n\nFrom early in his career, Krauze collaborated with author Octavio Paz, the Nobel Prize winner, in the magazine \"Vuelta\" (Return). He served as deputy editor (1977–1981) and deputy director (1981–1986).\n\nEnrique Krauze Kleinbort was born in 1947 in Mexico City to parents of Polish Jewish descent. He has two siblings, Jaime and Perla Krauze (b. 1953); the latter became an artist. \n\nKrauze received a bachelor's degree in industrial engineering from the UNAM, where from 1968 to 1970 he participated as a member of the student council. He earned a doctorate in history from El Colegio de México. \n\nIn 1978 he received a scholarship for studies from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation.\n\nKrauze began writing and published his first article in the Méxican magazine \"Siempre\" in 1971, when he was 24 years old. A year later, he was contributing to the magazine \"Plural\". \n\nKrauze published his first book, \"Caudillos culturales en la Revolución Mexicana\" (1979) (Cultural Leaders in the Mexican Revolution), which was a study of the Generation of 1915. The following year, he began with the editorial staff of Octavio Paz's magazine \"Vuelta\" (Return), serving as deputy editor until 1981. From 1981 to 1986 Krauze was deputy director of the magazine. He was deeply influenced by Paz as his mentor, and this work put him in the center of Mexican intellectual and political life. \n\nDuring this period, he also had academic study and teaching periods abroad, for more than a year as a visiting professor at St. Antony's College (University of Oxford) (from December 1981 to 1983), and at The Wilson Center (from October to December 1987) in Washington, DC.\n\nKrauze's writing has covered a broad range of cultural and political subjects, in both his books and essays. He has studied and explored Mexico's cultural and political history. \n\nIn 1988, Krauze published an attack in \"Vuelta\" and \"The New Republic\" on prominent novelist Carlos Fuentes and his fiction, dubbing him a \"guerrilla dandy\" for the perceived gap between his professed Marxist politics and his personal lifestyle. Noting Fuentes had lived most of the time out of the country, Krauze accused the author of selling out to the PRI government and being \"out of touch with Mexico.\" Krauze said Fuentes portrayed the culture as violent and corrupt to appeal to foreign audiences: \"There is the suspicion in Mexico that Fuentes merely uses Mexico as a theme, distorting it for a North American public, claiming credentials that he does not have.\" The essay was highly controversial; its publication contributed to a permanent rift between Paz and Fuentes, formerly close friends, that lasted until Paz's death. Their estrangement was also based on Fuentes' support for the Sandinistas. Fuentes brushed off the Krauze affair, saying, “I love having critics for breakfast.” Following Fuentes' death nearly a quarter century later in 2012, Krauze praised the author highly, describing him to reporters as \"one of the most brilliant writers of the 20th century\".\n\nIn 1992 he created \"Editorial Clío\" publishing house, which he directs. Krauze founded an associated production company, Clío TV, to create documentaries and his company is now called Editorial Clío Libros y Video.\n\nIn 1999 he founded the cultural magazine \"Letras Libres\", which is distributed in several Spanish-speaking countries. \n\nKrauze was Visiting Research Scholar in the Program in Latin American Studies of Princeton University in Fall 2013.\n\nIn a July 2012 article published in Bloomberg Opinion, Krauze favored the opening of the Mexican petroleum industry to private investment, as it has been nationalized since 1938. Krauze's support for liberal politics was exemplified by his polemic article, \"Por una democracia sin adjetivos,\" published in 1984, in which he strongly defended democracy as a means of social co-existence, not as a panacea that would immediately produce prosperity and material wealth for Mexico. \n\nKrauze has acknowledged being influenced by his mentors Daniel Cosío Villegas as well as Paz, both prominent Mexican liberals. His ranking of democracy above other political priorities has attracted critics because of many residents in Mexico suffer from deep poverty and social inequality. \n\nKrauze has been consistent in valuing democratic process. In the 2006 Mexican federal elections, he criticized the leftist candidate, Andrés Manuel López Obrador and characterized him as \"The tropical Messiah\" in his article by that title, as López Obrador lacked democratic principles in his proposals, policies, and ideas.\n\nKrauze has been a severe critic of the late-20th-century Institutional Revolutionary Party, especially because of the antiliberal characteristics of its late governments. He said that that they did not guarantee free and impartial elections, lacked a balance of powers, and he summarized their restrictiond as \"The Imperial Presidency.\"\n\nIn 1979 Krauze received a Guggenheim Fellowship. In October 1993 he won the Premio Comillas de Biografía, (given annually by Tusquets publishing house for the best international biography) for his book \"Siglo de caudillos.\" He has been a member of the Mexican Academy of History since 1990. In May 1992, he was awarded the Medalla al Mérito Histórico \"Capitán Alonso de León.\" On December 16, 2003 he was granted the Condecoración de la Gran Cruz de la Orden Civil de Alfonso X El Sabio. He was selected for the Colegio Nacional in México on April 27, 2005. In August 2008 he received the Orden Isabel la Católica given by the Spanish government.\n\nAmong the many documentaries of his production company, Krauze produced \"Mexico Siglo XX\" and \"México Nuevo Siglo\", two historical TV series about Mexican history, on Televisa in Mexico; these were also shown on PBS in the United States. \"México Nuevo Siglo\" was the first documentary to show on public television the events of the 1968 Tlatelolco student massacre. He is a member of Televisa's Board but has criticized its cultural content.\n\nIn 2014 the shelter \"La Gran Familia\" in Michoacan was raided, and officials revealed the children were kept in inhumane conditions, having to sleep on the floor and beg for alms in the street. The director Rosa Verduzco was arrested in July 2014 on charges of maltreatment and sexual abuse of hundreds of children. Krauze led a defense of her in the media, noting he had written about the shelter's work in 2000. He noted that he had written about the shelter's work in 2000, noting how many children she had taken in and educated. He did not comment on officials' reports of conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1280800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1280800", "title": "Ernst Bernheim", "text": "Ernst Bernheim\n\nErnst Bernheim (19 February 1850 – 9 July 1942) was a German historian, best known for an influential \"Lehrbuch der historischen Methode\" (1889) on historical method.\n\nHe was born in Hamburg as a son of merchant Louis Bernheim (later changed to Ludwig Berheim, born 7 December 1815 in Fürstenberg) and Emma Simon (born 15 April 1834 in Kolberg), who since 1834 lived in Hamburg. On 16 April 1884 he married Amalie (\"Emma\") Henriette Jessen (born 18 September 1861 in Hamburg, died 9 July 1945 in Greifswald). They had a daughter and three sons.\n\nErnst attended the Johanneum since Easter, 1862, and graduated with Abitur on 22 September 1868. From 1868 to 1872 he studied history in Berlin, Heidelberg, and Straßburg. He graduated with the grades Dr. phil and Dr jur. in Straßburg (1873, supervised by Georg Waitz), and Dr habil in Göttingen (1874/75, supervised by Julius Weizsäcker). Thereafter, he taught history at the University of Göttingen and at the University of Bonn. In 1883, he was called to the University of Greifswald, Institute for History, where he held the positions of an \"außerordentlicher Professor\" (\"Privatdozent\") since 1883, and \"ordentlicher Professor\" since 1889. In 1899, he was elected rector of the university. His eremitation was in 1921.\n\nDue to his Jewish descent, Bernheim was subject to repressions during the Nazi era. In 1933 he was forbidden to lecture, and an appeal to Hitler to regain this permission was not successful. On 4 December 1935, with the implementation of the Nuremberg Laws, Berheim lost German citizenship. An appeal to Hitler to regain citizenship, which was backed by a number of scientists from the University of Greifswald was successful - Bernheim was assigned \"temporary citizenship\" on 12 January 1938, thus avoiding deportation in 1940. Yet, just weeks before his death, the deaf-mute fosterchild of the family, Hetti Meyer, was deported to Theresienstadt and killed. Hetti was raised from her birth by Bernheim and his wife Emma, a special education teacher. From 1939 onwards, Nazi scientists systematically besmirched Bernheim's scientific work, which was only appreciated again in post-war Germany. Bernheim died on 3 March 1942 in Greifswald. His former colleagues managed to circumvent Nazi orders and get his urn buried in the town's graveyard on July 23, 1943, but an obituary was not permitted.\n\nA memorial plaque was attached to his Greifswald house in 26 Arndtstraße road. Furthermore, a street in Greifswald was named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "649371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=649371", "title": "Eupolemus", "text": "Eupolemus\n\nEupolemus () is the earliest Hellenistic Jewish historian whose work survives only in five fragments (or possibly six fragments) in Eusebius of Caesarea's \"Praeparatio Evangelica\" (hereafter abbreviated as \"Praep.\"), embedded in quotations from the historian Alexander Polyhistor, and in the \"Stromata\" (hereafter abbreviated as \"Strom.\") of Clement of Alexandria.\n\nA sixth passage which Polyhistor attributes to Eupolemus in Eusebius' quotations of Polyhistor is usually considered spurious as being dissimilar to the other passages quoted and has come to be called \"Pseudo-Eupolemus\".\n\nStyle and vocabulary indicate the writing as also originally in Greek and the date of composition of the seemingly genuine passages is about 158/7 BC. That the author dates his work by the Seleucids rather than the Ptolemies suggests Palestinian rather than Egyptian origin. It has been speculated that the author might be the Eupolemus who was ambassador of Judas Maccabeus to Rome as found in 1 Maccabees 8.17f and 2 Maccabees 4.11. \n\nThe fragments usually considered Eupolemus' genuine work are:\n\nThe fragment usually known as \"Pseudo-Eupolemus\" (\"Praep.\" 9.17.2–9) relates:\n\n\nR. Doran gives reason for believing that this fragment may be part of the genuine work of Eupolemus despite earlier doubts. \n\n"}
{"id": "12305127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12305127", "title": "Evolutionary history of life", "text": "Evolutionary history of life\n\nThe evolutionary history of life on Earth traces the processes by which both living organisms and fossil organisms evolved since life emerged on the planet, until the present. Earth formed about 4.5 billion years (Ga) ago and evidence suggests life emerged prior to 3.7 Ga. Although there is some evidence to suggest that life appeared as early as 4.1 to 4.28 Ga this evidence remains controversial due to the non-biological mechanisms that may have formed these potential signatures of past life. The similarities among all known species of present-day organisms indicate that they have diverged through the process of evolution from a common ancestor. It is estimated that more than 99 percent of all species, amounting to over five billion species, that ever lived on Earth are extinct. Estimates on the number of Earth's current species range from 10 million to 14 million, of which about 1.9 million are estimated to have been named and 1.6 million documented in a central database to date. More recently, in May 2016, scientists reported that 1 trillion species are estimated to be on Earth currently with only one-thousandth of one percent described.\n\nThe earliest evidence of life on Earth comes from biogenic carbon signatures and stromatolite fossils discovered in 3.7 billion-year-old metasedimentary rocks discovered in western Greenland. In 2015, \"remains of biotic life\" were found in 4.1 billion-year-old rocks in Western Australia. In March 2017, putative evidence of possibly the oldest forms of life on Earth was reported in the form of fossilized microorganisms discovered in hydrothermal vent precipitates in the Nuvvuagittuq Belt of Quebec, Canada, that may have lived as early as 4.28 billion years ago, not long after the oceans formed 4.4 billion years ago, and not long after the formation of the Earth 4.54 billion years ago. According to biologist Stephen Blair Hedges, \"If life arose relatively quickly on Earth ... then it could be common in the universe.\"\n\nMicrobial mats of coexisting bacteria and archaea were the dominant form of life in the early Archean and many of the major steps in early evolution are thought to have taken place within them. The evolution of photosynthesis, around 3.5 Ga, eventually led to a buildup of its waste product, oxygen, in the atmosphere, leading to the great oxygenation event, beginning around 2.4 Ga. The earliest evidence of eukaryotes (complex cells with organelles) dates from 1.85 Ga, and while they may have been present earlier, their diversification accelerated when they started using oxygen in their metabolism. Later, around 1.7 Ga, multicellular organisms began to appear, with differentiated cells performing specialised functions. Sexual reproduction, which involves the fusion of male and female reproductive cells (gametes) to create a zygote in a process called fertilization is, in contrast to asexual reproduction, the primary method of reproduction for the vast majority of macroscopic organisms, including almost all eukaryotes (which includes animals and plants). However the origin and evolution of sexual reproduction remain a puzzle for biologists though it did evolve from a common ancestor that was a single celled eukaryotic species. Bilateria, animals with a front and a back, appeared by 555 Ma (million years ago).\n\nThe earliest complex land plants date back to around 850 Ma, from carbon isotopes in Precambrian rocks, while algae-like multicellular land plants are dated back even to about 1 billion years ago, although evidence suggests that microorganisms formed the earliest terrestrial ecosystems, at least 2.7 Ga. Microorganisms are thought to have paved the way for the inception of land plants in the Ordovician. Land plants were so successful that they are thought to have contributed to the Late Devonian extinction event. (The long causal chain implied seems to involve the success of early tree archaeopteris (1) drew down CO levels, leading to global cooling and lowered sea levels, (2) roots of archeopteris fostered soil development which \"increased\" rock weathering, and the subsequent nutrient run-off may have triggered algal blooms resulting in anoxic events which caused marine-life die-offs. Marine species were the primary victims of the Late Devonian extinction.)\n\nEdiacara biota appear during the Ediacaran period, while vertebrates, along with most other modern phyla originated about during the Cambrian explosion. During the Permian period, synapsids, including the ancestors of mammals, dominated the land, but most of this group became extinct in the Permian–Triassic extinction event . During the recovery from this catastrophe, archosaurs became the most abundant land vertebrates; one archosaur group, the dinosaurs, dominated the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods. After the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event killed off the non-avian dinosaurs, mammals increased rapidly in size and diversity. Such mass extinctions may have accelerated evolution by providing opportunities for new groups of organisms to diversify.\n\nThe oldest meteorite fragments found on Earth are about 4.54 billion years old; this, coupled primarily with the dating of ancient lead deposits, has put the estimated age of Earth at around that time. The Moon has the same composition as Earth's crust but does not contain an iron-rich core like the Earth's. Many scientists think that about 40 million years after the formation of Earth, it collided with a body the size of Mars, throwing into orbit crust material that formed the Moon. Another hypothesis is that the Earth and Moon started to coalesce at the same time but the Earth, having much stronger gravity than the early Moon, attracted almost all the iron particles in the area.\n\nUntil 2001, the oldest rocks found on Earth were about 3.8 billion years old, leading scientists to estimate that the Earth's surface had been molten until then. Accordingly, they named this part of Earth's history the Hadean. However, analysis of zircons formed 4.4 Ga indicates that Earth's crust solidified about 100 million years after the planet's formation and that the planet quickly acquired oceans and an atmosphere, which may have been capable of supporting life.\n\nEvidence from the Moon indicates that from 4 to 3.8 Ga it suffered a Late Heavy Bombardment by debris that was left over from the formation of the Solar System, and the Earth should have experienced an even heavier bombardment due to its stronger gravity. While there is no direct evidence of conditions on Earth 4 to 3.8 Ga, there is no reason to think that the Earth was not also affected by this late heavy bombardment. This event may well have stripped away any previous atmosphere and oceans; in this case gases and water from comet impacts may have contributed to their replacement, although outgassing from volcanoes on Earth would have supplied at least half. However, if subsurface microbial life had evolved by this point, it would have survived the bombardment.\n\nThe earliest identified organisms were minute and relatively featureless, and their fossils look like small rods that are very difficult to tell apart from structures that arise through abiotic physical processes. The oldest undisputed evidence of life on Earth, interpreted as fossilized bacteria, dates to 3 Ga. Other finds in rocks dated to about 3.5 Ga have been interpreted as bacteria, with geochemical evidence also seeming to show the presence of life 3.8 Ga. However, these analyses were closely scrutinized, and non-biological processes were found which could produce all of the \"signatures of life\" that had been reported. While this does not prove that the structures found had a non-biological origin, they cannot be taken as clear evidence for the presence of life. Geochemical signatures from rocks deposited 3.4 Ga have been interpreted as evidence for life, although these statements have not been thoroughly examined by critics.\n\nEvidence for fossilized microorganisms considered to be 3,770 million to 4,280 million years old was found in the Nuvvuagittuq Greenstone Belt in Quebec, Canada, although the evidence is disputed as inconclusive.\n\nBiologists reason that all living organisms on Earth must share a single last universal ancestor, because it would be virtually impossible that two or more separate lineages could have independently developed the many complex biochemical mechanisms common to all living organisms.\n\nLife on Earth is based on carbon and water. Carbon provides stable frameworks for complex chemicals and can be easily extracted from the environment, especially from carbon dioxide. There is no other chemical element whose properties are similar enough to carbon's to be called an analogue; silicon, the element directly below carbon on the periodic table, does not form very many complex stable molecules, and because most of its compounds are water-insoluble, it would be more difficult for organisms to extract. The elements boron and phosphorus have more complex chemistries, but suffer from other limitations relative to carbon. Water is an excellent solvent and has two other useful properties: the fact that ice floats enables aquatic organisms to survive beneath it in winter; and its molecules have electrically negative and positive ends, which enables it to form a wider range of compounds than other solvents can. Other good solvents, such as ammonia, are liquid only at such low temperatures that chemical reactions may be too slow to sustain life, and lack water's other advantages. Organisms based on alternative biochemistry may, however, be possible on other planets.\n\nResearch on how life might have emerged from non-living chemicals focuses on three possible starting points: self-replication, an organism's ability to produce offspring that are very similar to itself; metabolism, its ability to feed and repair itself; and external cell membranes, which allow food to enter and waste products to leave, but exclude unwanted substances. Research on abiogenesis still has a long way to go, since theoretical and empirical approaches are only beginning to make contact with each other.\n\nEven the simplest members of the three modern domains of life use DNA to record their \"recipes\" and a complex array of RNA and protein molecules to \"read\" these instructions and use them for growth, maintenance and self-replication. The discovery that some RNA molecules can catalyze both their own replication and the construction of proteins led to the hypothesis of earlier life-forms based entirely on RNA. These ribozymes could have formed an RNA world in which there were individuals but no species, as mutations and horizontal gene transfers would have meant that the offspring in each generation were quite likely to have different genomes from those that their parents started with. RNA would later have been replaced by DNA, which is more stable and therefore can build longer genomes, expanding the range of capabilities a single organism can have. Ribozymes remain as the main components of ribosomes, modern cells' \"protein factories.\" Evidence suggests the first RNA molecules formed on Earth prior to 4.17 Ga.\n\nAlthough short self-replicating RNA molecules have been artificially produced in laboratories, doubts have been raised about where natural non-biological synthesis of RNA is possible. The earliest \"ribozymes\" may have been formed of simpler nucleic acids such as PNA, TNA or GNA, which would have been replaced later by RNA.\n\nIn 2003, it was proposed that porous metal sulfide precipitates would assist RNA synthesis at about and ocean-bottom pressures near hydrothermal vents. Under this hypothesis, lipid membranes would be the last major cell components to appear and, until then, the protocells would be confined to the pores.\n\nA series of experiments starting in 1997 showed that early stages in the formation of proteins from inorganic materials including carbon monoxide and hydrogen sulfide could be achieved by using iron sulfide and nickel sulfide as catalysts. Most of the steps required temperatures of about and moderate pressures, although one stage required and a pressure equivalent to that found under of rock. Hence it was suggested that self-sustaining synthesis of proteins could have occurred near hydrothermal vents.\n\nIt has been suggested that double-walled \"bubbles\" of lipids like those that form the external membranes of cells may have been an essential first step. Experiments that simulated the conditions of the early Earth have reported the formation of lipids, and these can spontaneously form liposomes, double-walled \"bubbles,\" and then reproduce themselves. Although they are not intrinsically information-carriers as nucleic acids are, they would be subject to natural selection for longevity and reproduction. Nucleic acids such as RNA might then have formed more easily within the liposomes than they would have outside.\n\nRNA is complex and there are doubts about whether it can be produced non-biologically in the wild. Some clays, notably montmorillonite, have properties that make them plausible accelerators for the emergence of an RNA world: they grow by self-replication of their crystalline pattern; they are subject to an analog of natural selection, as the clay \"species\" that grows fastest in a particular environment rapidly becomes dominant; and they can catalyze the formation of RNA molecules. Although this idea has not become the scientific consensus, it still has active supporters.\n\nResearch in 2003 reported that montmorillonite could also accelerate the conversion of fatty acids into \"bubbles,\" and that the \"bubbles\" could encapsulate RNA attached to the clay. These \"bubbles\" can then grow by absorbing additional lipids and then divide. The formation of the earliest cells may have been aided by similar processes.\n\nA similar hypothesis presents self-replicating iron-rich clays as the progenitors of nucleotides, lipids and amino acids.\n\nThe Panspermia hypothesis does not explain how life arose in the first place, but simply examines the possibility of it coming from somewhere other than the Earth. The idea that life on Earth was \"seeded\" from elsewhere in the Universe dates back at least to the Greek philosopher Anaximander in the sixth century BCE. In the twentieth century it was proposed by the physical chemist Svante Arrhenius, by the astronomers Fred Hoyle and Chandra Wickramasinghe, and by molecular biologist Francis Crick and chemist Leslie Orgel.\n\nThere are three main versions of the \"seeded from elsewhere\" hypothesis: from elsewhere in our Solar System via fragments knocked into space by a large meteor impact, in which case the most credible sources are Mars and Venus; by alien visitors, possibly as a result of accidental contamination by microorganisms that they brought with them; and from outside the Solar System but by natural means.\n\nExperiments in low Earth orbit, such as EXOSTACK, demonstrated that some microorganism spores can survive the shock of being catapulted into space and some can survive exposure to outer space radiation for at least 5.7 years. Scientists are divided over the likelihood of life arising independently on Mars, or on other planets in our galaxy.\n\nMicrobial mats are multi-layered, multi-species colonies of bacteria and other organisms that are generally only a few millimeters thick, but still contain a wide range of chemical environments, each of which favors a different set of microorganisms. To some extent each mat forms its own food chain, as the by-products of each group of microorganisms generally serve as \"food\" for adjacent groups.\n\nStromatolites are stubby pillars built as microorganisms in mats slowly migrate upwards to avoid being smothered by sediment deposited on them by water. There has been vigorous debate about the validity of alleged fossils from before 3 Ga, with critics arguing that so-called stromatolites could have been formed by non-biological processes. In 2006, another find of stromatolites was reported from the same part of Australia as previous ones, in rocks dated to 3.5 Ga.\n\nIn modern underwater mats the top layer often consists of photosynthesizing cyanobacteria which create an oxygen-rich environment, while the bottom layer is oxygen-free and often dominated by hydrogen sulfide emitted by the organisms living there. It is estimated that the appearance of oxygenic photosynthesis by bacteria in mats increased biological productivity by a factor of between 100 and 1,000. The reducing agent used by oxygenic photosynthesis is water, which is much more plentiful than the geologically produced reducing agents required by the earlier non-oxygenic photosynthesis. From this point onwards life itself produced significantly more of the resources it needed than did geochemical processes. Oxygen is toxic to organisms that are not adapted to it, but greatly increases the metabolic efficiency of oxygen-adapted organisms. Oxygen became a significant component of Earth's atmosphere about 2.4 Ga. Although eukaryotes may have been present much earlier, the oxygenation of the atmosphere was a prerequisite for the evolution of the most complex eukaryotic cells, from which all multicellular organisms are built. The boundary between oxygen-rich and oxygen-free layers in microbial mats would have moved upwards when photosynthesis shut down overnight, and then downwards as it resumed on the next day. This would have created selection pressure for organisms in this intermediate zone to acquire the ability to tolerate and then to use oxygen, possibly via endosymbiosis, where one organism lives inside another and both of them benefit from their association.\n\nCyanobacteria have the most complete biochemical \"toolkits\" of all the mat-forming organisms. Hence they are the most self-sufficient of the mat organisms and were well-adapted to strike out on their own both as floating mats and as the first of the phytoplankton, providing the basis of most marine food chains.\n\nEukaryotes may have been present long before the oxygenation of the atmosphere, but most modern eukaryotes require oxygen, which their mitochondria use to fuel the production of ATP, the internal energy supply of all known cells. In the 1970s it was proposed and, after much debate, widely accepted that eukaryotes emerged as a result of a sequence of endosymbiosis between \"prokaryotes.\" For example: a predatory microorganism invaded a large prokaryote, probably an archaean, but the attack was neutralized, and the attacker took up residence and evolved into the first of the mitochondria; one of these chimeras later tried to swallow a photosynthesizing cyanobacterium, but the victim survived inside the attacker and the new combination became the ancestor of plants; and so on. After each endosymbiosis began, the partners would have eliminated unproductive duplication of genetic functions by re-arranging their genomes, a process which sometimes involved transfer of genes between them. Another hypothesis proposes that mitochondria were originally sulfur- or hydrogen-metabolising endosymbionts, and became oxygen-consumers later. On the other hand, mitochondria might have been part of eukaryotes' original equipment.\n\nThere is a debate about when eukaryotes first appeared: the presence of steranes in Australian shales may indicate that eukaryotes were present 2.7 Ga; however, an analysis in 2008 concluded that these chemicals infiltrated the rocks less than 2.2 Ga and prove nothing about the origins of eukaryotes. Fossils of the algae \"Grypania\" have been reported in 1.85 billion-year-old rocks (originally dated to 2.1 Ga but later revised), and indicates that eukaryotes with organelles had already evolved. A diverse collection of fossil algae were found in rocks dated between 1.5 and 1.4 Ga. The earliest known fossils of fungi date from 1.43 Ga.\n\nPlastids, the superclass of organelles of which chloroplasts are the best-known exemplar, are thought to have originated from endosymbiotic cyanobacteria. The symbiosis evolved around 1.5 Ga and enabled eukaryotes to carry out oxygenic photosynthesis. Three evolutionary lineages have since emerged in which the plastids are named differently: chloroplasts in green algae and plants, rhodoplasts in red algae and cyanelles in the glaucophytes.\n\nThe defining characteristics of sexual reproduction in eukaryotes are meiosis and fertilization. There is much genetic recombination in this kind of reproduction, in which offspring receive 50% of their genes from each parent, in contrast with asexual reproduction, in which there is no recombination. Bacteria also exchange DNA by bacterial conjugation, the benefits of which include resistance to antibiotics and other toxins, and the ability to utilize new metabolites. However, conjugation is not a means of reproduction, and is not limited to members of the same species – there are cases where bacteria transfer DNA to plants and animals.\n\nOn the other hand, bacterial transformation is clearly an adaptation for transfer of DNA between bacteria of the same species. Bacterial transformation is a complex process involving the products of numerous bacterial genes and can be regarded as a bacterial form of sex. This process occurs naturally in at least 67 prokaryotic species (in seven different phyla). Sexual reproduction in eukaryotes may have evolved from bacterial transformation. (Also see Evolution of sexual reproduction#Origin of sexual reproduction.)\n\nThe disadvantages of sexual reproduction are well-known: the genetic reshuffle of recombination may break up favorable combinations of genes; and since males do not directly increase the number of offspring in the next generation, an asexual population can out-breed and displace in as little as 50 generations a sexual population that is equal in every other respect. Nevertheless, the great majority of animals, plants, fungi and protists reproduce sexually. There is strong evidence that sexual reproduction arose early in the history of eukaryotes and that the genes controlling it have changed very little since then. How sexual reproduction evolved and survived is an unsolved puzzle.\n\nThe Red Queen hypothesis suggests that sexual reproduction provides protection against parasites, because it is easier for parasites to evolve means of overcoming the defenses of genetically identical clones than those of sexual species that present moving targets, and there is some experimental evidence for this. However, there is still doubt about whether it would explain the survival of sexual species if multiple similar clone species were present, as one of the clones may survive the attacks of parasites for long enough to out-breed the sexual species. Furthermore, contrary to the expectations of the Red Queen hypothesis, Kathryn A. Hanley et al. found that the prevalence, abundance and mean intensity of mites was significantly higher in sexual geckos than in asexuals sharing the same habitat. In addition, biologist Matthew Parker, after reviewing numerous genetic studies on plant disease resistance, failed to find a single example consistent with the concept that pathogens are the primary selective agent responsible for sexual reproduction in the host.\n\nAlexey Kondrashov's \"deterministic mutation hypothesis\" (DMH) assumes that each organism has more than one harmful mutation and the combined effects of these mutations are more harmful than the sum of the harm done by each individual mutation. If so, sexual recombination of genes will reduce the harm that bad mutations do to offspring and at the same time eliminate some bad mutations from the gene pool by isolating them in individuals that perish quickly because they have an above-average number of bad mutations. However, the evidence suggests that the DMH's assumptions are shaky because many species have on average less than one harmful mutation per individual and no species that has been investigated shows evidence of synergy between harmful mutations. (Further criticisms of this hypothesis are discussed in the article Evolution of sexual reproduction#Removal of deleterious genes)\n\nThe random nature of recombination causes the relative abundance of alternative traits to vary from one generation to another. This genetic drift is insufficient on its own to make sexual reproduction advantageous, but a combination of genetic drift and natural selection may be sufficient. When chance produces combinations of good traits, natural selection gives a large advantage to lineages in which these traits become genetically linked. On the other hand, the benefits of good traits are neutralized if they appear along with bad traits. Sexual recombination gives good traits the opportunities to become linked with other good traits, and mathematical models suggest this may be more than enough to offset the disadvantages of sexual reproduction. Other combinations of hypotheses that are inadequate on their own are also being examined.\nThe adaptive function of sex today remains a major unresolved issue in biology. The competing models to explain the adaptive function of sex were reviewed by John A. Birdsell and Christopher Wills. The hypotheses discussed above all depend on the possible beneficial effects of random genetic variation produced by genetic recombination. An alternative view is that sex arose and is maintained, as a process for repairing DNA damage, and that the genetic variation produced is an occasionally beneficial byproduct.\n\nThe simplest definitions of \"multicellular,\" for example \"having multiple cells,\" could include colonial cyanobacteria like \"Nostoc\". Even a technical definition such as \"having the same genome but different types of cell\" would still include some genera of the green algae Volvox, which have cells that specialize in reproduction. Multicellularity evolved independently in organisms as diverse as sponges and other animals, fungi, plants, brown algae, cyanobacteria, slime molds and myxobacteria. For the sake of brevity, this article focuses on the organisms that show the greatest specialization of cells and variety of cell types, although this approach to the evolution of biological complexity could be regarded as \"rather anthropocentric.\"\nThe initial advantages of multicellularity may have included: more efficient sharing of nutrients that are digested outside the cell, increased resistance to predators, many of which attacked by engulfing; the ability to resist currents by attaching to a firm surface; the ability to reach upwards to filter-feed or to obtain sunlight for photosynthesis; the ability to create an internal environment that gives protection against the external one; and even the opportunity for a group of cells to behave \"intelligently\" by sharing information. These features would also have provided opportunities for other organisms to diversify, by creating more varied environments than flat microbial mats could.\n\nMulticellularity with differentiated cells is beneficial to the organism as a whole but disadvantageous from the point of view of individual cells, most of which lose the opportunity to reproduce themselves. In an asexual multicellular organism, rogue cells which retain the ability to reproduce may take over and reduce the organism to a mass of undifferentiated cells. Sexual reproduction eliminates such rogue cells from the next generation and therefore appears to be a prerequisite for complex multicellularity.\n\nThe available evidence indicates that eukaryotes evolved much earlier but remained inconspicuous until a rapid diversification around 1 Ga. The only respect in which eukaryotes clearly surpass bacteria and archaea is their capacity for variety of forms, and sexual reproduction enabled eukaryotes to exploit that advantage by producing organisms with multiple cells that differed in form and function.\n\nBy comparing the composition of transcription factor families and regulatory network motifs between unicellular organisms and multicellular organisms, scientists found there are many novel transcription factor families and three novel types of regulatory network motifs in multicellular organisms, and novel family transcription factors are preferentially wired into these novel network motifs which are essential for multicullular development. These results propose a plausible mechanism for the contribution of novel-family transcription factors and novel network motifs to the origin of multicellular organisms at transcriptional regulatory level.\n\nThe Francevillian biota fossils, dated to 2.1 Ga, are the earliest known fossil organisms that are clearly multicellular. They may have had differentiated cells. Another early multicellular fossil, \"Qingshania\", dated to 1.7 Ga, appears to consist of virtually identical cells. The red algae called \"Bangiomorpha\", dated at 1.2 Ga, is the earliest known organism that certainly has differentiated, specialized cells, and is also the oldest known sexually reproducing organism. The 1.43 billion-year-old fossils interpreted as fungi appear to have been multicellular with differentiated cells. The \"string of beads\" organism \"Horodyskia\", found in rocks dated from 1.5 Ga to 900 Ma, may have been an early metazoan; however, it has also been interpreted as a colonial foraminiferan.\nAnimals are multicellular eukaryotes, and are distinguished from plants, algae, and fungi by lacking cell walls. All animals are motile, if only at certain life stages. All animals except sponges have bodies differentiated into separate tissues, including muscles, which move parts of the animal by contracting, and nerve tissue, which transmits and processes signals.\n\nThe earliest widely accepted animal fossils are the rather modern-looking cnidarians (the group that includes jellyfish, sea anemones and \"Hydra\"), possibly from around , although fossils from the Doushantuo Formation can only be dated approximately. Their presence implies that the cnidarian and bilaterian lineages had already diverged.\n\nThe Ediacara biota, which flourished for the last 40 million years before the start of the Cambrian, were the first animals more than a very few centimetres long. Many were flat and had a \"quilted\" appearance, and seemed so strange that there was a proposal to classify them as a separate kingdom, Vendozoa. Others, however, have been interpreted as early molluscs (\"Kimberella\"), echinoderms (\"Arkarua\"), and arthropods (\"Spriggina\", \"Parvancorina\"). There is still debate about the classification of these specimens, mainly because the diagnostic features which allow taxonomists to classify more recent organisms, such as similarities to living organisms, are generally absent in the Ediacarans. However, there seems little doubt that \"Kimberella\" was at least a triploblastic bilaterian animal, in other words, an animal significantly more complex than the cnidarians.\n\nThe small shelly fauna are a very mixed collection of fossils found between the Late Ediacaran and Middle Cambrian periods. The earliest, \"Cloudina\", shows signs of successful defense against predation and may indicate the start of an evolutionary arms race. Some tiny Early Cambrian shells almost certainly belonged to molluscs, while the owners of some \"armor plates,\" \"Halkieria\" and \"Microdictyon\", were eventually identified when more complete specimens were found in Cambrian lagerstätten that preserved soft-bodied animals.\nIn the 1970s there was already a debate about whether the emergence of the modern phyla was \"explosive\" or gradual but hidden by the shortage of Precambrian animal fossils. A re-analysis of fossils from the Burgess Shale lagerstätte increased interest in the issue when it revealed animals, such as \"Opabinia\", which did not fit into any known phylum. At the time these were interpreted as evidence that the modern phyla had evolved very rapidly in the Cambrian explosion and that the Burgess Shale's \"weird wonders\" showed that the Early Cambrian was a uniquely experimental period of animal evolution. Later discoveries of similar animals and the development of new theoretical approaches led to the conclusion that many of the \"weird wonders\" were evolutionary \"aunts\" or \"cousins\" of modern groups—for example that \"Opabinia\" was a member of the lobopods, a group which includes the ancestors of the arthropods, and that it may have been closely related to the modern tardigrades. Nevertheless, there is still much debate about whether the Cambrian explosion was really explosive and, if so, how and why it happened and why it appears unique in the history of animals.\n\nMost of the animals at the heart of the Cambrian explosion debate are protostomes, one of the two main groups of complex animals. The other major group, the deuterostomes, contains invertebrates such as starfish and sea urchins (echinoderms), as well as chordates (see below). Many echinoderms have hard calcite \"shells,\" which are fairly common from the Early Cambrian small shelly fauna onwards. Other deuterostome groups are soft-bodied, and most of the significant Cambrian deuterostome fossils come from the Chengjiang fauna, a lagerstätte in China. The chordates are another major deuterostome group: animals with a distinct dorsal nerve cord. Chordates include soft-bodied invertebrates such as tunicates as well as vertebrates—animals with a backbone. While tunicate fossils predate the Cambrian explosion, the Chengjiang fossils \"Haikouichthys\" and \"Myllokunmingia\" appear to be true vertebrates, and \"Haikouichthys\" had distinct vertebrae, which may have been slightly mineralized. Vertebrates with jaws, such as the acanthodians, first appeared in the Late Ordovician.\n\nAdaptation to life on land is a major challenge: all land organisms need to avoid drying-out and all those above microscopic size must create special structures to withstand gravity; respiration and gas exchange systems have to change; reproductive systems cannot depend on water to carry eggs and sperm towards each other. Although the earliest good evidence of land plants and animals dates back to the Ordovician period (), and a number of microorganism lineages made it onto land much earlier, modern land ecosystems only appeared in the Late Devonian, about . In May 2017, evidence of the earliest known life on land may have been found in 3.48-billion-year-old geyserite and other related mineral deposits (often found around hot springs and geysers) uncovered in the Pilbara Craton of Western Australia.\n\nOxygen is a potent oxidant whose accumulation in terrestrial atmosphere resulted from the development of photosynthesis over 3 Ga, in cyanobacteria (blue-green algae), which were the most primitive oxygenic photosynthetic organisms. Brown algae accumulate inorganic mineral antioxidants such as rubidium, vanadium, zinc, iron, copper, molybdenum, selenium and iodine which is concentrated more than 30,000 times the concentration of this element in seawater. Protective endogenous antioxidant enzymes and exogenous dietary antioxidants helped to prevent oxidative damage. Most marine mineral antioxidants act in the cells as essential trace elements in redox and antioxidant metalloenzymes.\n\nWhen plants and animals began to enter rivers and land about 500 Ma, environmental deficiency of these marine mineral antioxidants was a challenge to the evolution of terrestrial life. Terrestrial plants slowly optimized the production of “new” endogenous antioxidants such as ascorbic acid, polyphenols, flavonoids, tocopherols, etc. A few of these appeared more recently, in last 200–50 Ma, in fruits and flowers of angiosperm plants.\n\nIn fact, angiosperms (the dominant type of plant today) and most of their antioxidant pigments evolved during the Late Jurassic period. Plants employ antioxidants to defend their structures against reactive oxygen species produced during photosynthesis. Animals are exposed to the same oxidants, and they have evolved endogenous enzymatic antioxidant systems. Iodine is the most primitive and abundant electron-rich essential element in the diet of marine and terrestrial organisms, and as iodide acts as an electron donor and has this ancestral antioxidant function in all iodide-concentrating cells from primitive marine algae to more recent terrestrial vertebrates.\n\nBefore the colonization of land, soil, a combination of mineral particles and decomposed organic matter, did not exist. Land surfaces would have been either bare rock or unstable sand produced by weathering. Water and any nutrients in it would have drained away very quickly. In the Sub-Cambrian peneplain in Sweden for example maximum depth of kaolinitization by Neoproterozoic weathering is about 5 m, in contrast nearby kaolin deposits developed in the Mesozoic are much thicker. It has been argued that in the late Neoproterozoic sheet wash was a dominant process of erosion of surface material due to the lack of plants on land.\n\nFilms of cyanobacteria, which are not plants but use the same photosynthesis mechanisms, have been found in modern deserts, and only in areas that are unsuitable for vascular plants. This suggests that microbial mats may have been the first organisms to colonize dry land, possibly in the Precambrian. Mat-forming cyanobacteria could have gradually evolved resistance to desiccation as they spread from the seas to intertidal zones and then to land. Lichens, which are symbiotic combinations of a fungus (almost always an ascomycete) and one or more photosynthesizers (green algae or cyanobacteria), are also important colonizers of lifeless environments, and their ability to break down rocks contributes to soil formation in situations where plants cannot survive. The earliest known ascomycete fossils date from in the Silurian.\n\nSoil formation would have been very slow until the appearance of burrowing animals, which mix the mineral and organic components of soil and whose feces are a major source of the organic components. Burrows have been found in Ordovician sediments, and are attributed to annelids (\"worms\") or arthropods.\n\nIn aquatic algae, almost all cells are capable of photosynthesis and are nearly independent. Life on land required plants to become internally more complex and specialized: photosynthesis was most efficient at the top; roots were required in order to extract water from the ground; the parts in between became supports and transport systems for water and nutrients.\n\nSpores of land plants, possibly rather like liverworts, have been found in Middle Ordovician rocks dated to about . In Middle Silurian rocks , there are fossils of actual plants including clubmosses such as \"Baragwanathia\"; most were under high, and some appear closely related to vascular plants, the group that includes trees.\n\nBy the Late Devonian , trees such as \"Archaeopteris\" were so abundant that they changed river systems from mostly braided to mostly meandering, because their roots bound the soil firmly. In fact, they caused the \"Late Devonian wood crisis\" because:\n\nAnimals had to change their feeding and excretory systems, and most land animals developed internal fertilization of their eggs. The difference in refractive index between water and air required changes in their eyes. On the other hand, in some ways movement and breathing became easier, and the better transmission of high-frequency sounds in air encouraged the development of hearing.\n\nThe oldest known air-breathing animal is \"Pneumodesmus\", an archipolypodan millipede from the Middle Silurian, about . Its air-breathing, terrestrial nature is evidenced by the presence of spiracles, the openings to tracheal systems. However, some earlier trace fossils from the Cambrian-Ordovician boundary about are interpreted as the tracks of large amphibious arthropods on coastal sand dunes, and may have been made by euthycarcinoids, which are thought to be evolutionary \"aunts\" of myriapods. Other trace fossils from the Late Ordovician a little over probably represent land invertebrates, and there is clear evidence of numerous arthropods on coasts and alluvial plains shortly before the Silurian-Devonian boundary, about , including signs that some arthropods ate plants. Arthropods were well pre-adapted to colonise land, because their existing jointed exoskeletons provided protection against desiccation, support against gravity and a means of locomotion that was not dependent on water.\n\nThe fossil record of other major invertebrate groups on land is poor: none at all for non-parasitic flatworms, nematodes or nemerteans; some parasitic nematodes have been fossilized in amber; annelid worm fossils are known from the Carboniferous, but they may still have been aquatic animals; the earliest fossils of gastropods on land date from the Late Carboniferous, and this group may have had to wait until leaf litter became abundant enough to provide the moist conditions they need.\n\nThe earliest confirmed fossils of flying insects date from the Late Carboniferous, but it is thought that insects developed the ability to fly in the Early Carboniferous or even Late Devonian. This gave them a wider range of ecological niches for feeding and breeding, and a means of escape from predators and from unfavorable changes in the environment. About 99% of modern insect species fly or are descendants of flying species.\n\nTetrapods, vertebrates with four limbs, evolved from other rhipidistian fish over a relatively short timespan during the Late Devonian (). The early groups are grouped together as Labyrinthodontia. They retained aquatic, fry-like tadpoles, a system still seen in modern amphibians. \n\nIodine and T4/T3 stimulate the amphibian metamorphosis and the evolution of nervous systems transforming the aquatic, vegetarian tadpole into a “more evoluted” terrestrial, carnivorous frog with better neurological, visuospatial, olfactory and cognitive abilities for hunting.\nThe new hormonal action of T3 was made possible by the formation of T3-receptors in the cells of vertebrates. Firstly, about 600-500 million years ago, in primitive Chordata appeared the alpha T3-receptors with a metamorphosing action and then, about 250-150 million years ago, in the Birds and Mammalia appeared the beta T3-receptors with metabolic and thermogenetic actions.\n\nFrom the 1950s to the early 1980s it was thought that tetrapods evolved from fish that had already acquired the ability to crawl on land, possibly in order to go from a pool that was drying out to one that was deeper. However, in 1987, nearly complete fossils of \"Acanthostega\" from about showed that this Late Devonian transitional animal had legs and both lungs and gills, but could never have survived on land: its limbs and its wrist and ankle joints were too weak to bear its weight; its ribs were too short to prevent its lungs from being squeezed flat by its weight; its fish-like tail fin would have been damaged by dragging on the ground. The current hypothesis is that \"Acanthostega\", which was about long, was a wholly aquatic predator that hunted in shallow water. Its skeleton differed from that of most fish, in ways that enabled it to raise its head to breathe air while its body remained submerged, including: its jaws show modifications that would have enabled it to gulp air; the bones at the back of its skull are locked together, providing strong attachment points for muscles that raised its head; the head is not joined to the shoulder girdle and it has a distinct neck.\n\nThe Devonian proliferation of land plants may help to explain why air breathing would have been an advantage: leaves falling into streams and rivers would have encouraged the growth of aquatic vegetation; this would have attracted grazing invertebrates and small fish that preyed on them; they would have been attractive prey but the environment was unsuitable for the big marine predatory fish; air-breathing would have been necessary because these waters would have been short of oxygen, since warm water holds less dissolved oxygen than cooler marine water and since the decomposition of vegetation would have used some of the oxygen.\n\nLater discoveries revealed earlier transitional forms between \"Acanthostega\" and completely fish-like animals. Unfortunately, there is then a gap (Romer's gap) of about 30 Ma between the fossils of ancestral tetrapods and Middle Carboniferous fossils of vertebrates that look well-adapted for life on land. Some of these look like early relatives of modern amphibians, most of which need to keep their skins moist and to lay their eggs in water, while others are accepted as early relatives of the amniotes, whose waterproof skin and egg membranes enable them to live and breed far from water.\n\nAmniotes, whose eggs can survive in dry environments, probably evolved in the Late Carboniferous period (). The earliest fossils of the two surviving amniote groups, synapsids and sauropsids, date from around . The synapsid pelycosaurs and their descendants the therapsids are the most common land vertebrates in the best-known Permian () fossil beds. However, at the time these were all in temperate zones at middle latitudes, and there is evidence that hotter, drier environments nearer the Equator were dominated by sauropsids and amphibians.\n\nThe Permian–Triassic extinction event wiped out almost all land vertebrates, as well as the great majority of other life. During the slow recovery from this catastrophe, estimated to have taken 30 million years, a previously obscure sauropsid group became the most abundant and diverse terrestrial vertebrates: a few fossils of archosauriformes (\"ruling lizard forms\") have been found in Late Permian rocks, but, by the Middle Triassic, archosaurs were the dominant land vertebrates. Dinosaurs distinguished themselves from other archosaurs in the Late Triassic, and became the dominant land vertebrates of the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods ().\n\nDuring the Late Jurassic, birds evolved from small, predatory theropod dinosaurs. The first birds inherited teeth and long, bony tails from their dinosaur ancestors, but some had developed horny, toothless beaks by the very Late Jurassic and short pygostyle tails by the Early Cretaceous.\nWhile the archosaurs and dinosaurs were becoming more dominant in the Triassic, the mammaliaform successors of the therapsids evolved into small, mainly nocturnal insectivores. This ecological role may have promoted the evolution of mammals, for example nocturnal life may have accelerated the development of endothermy (\"warm-bloodedness\") and hair or fur. By in the Early Jurassic there were animals that were very like today's mammals in a number of respects. Unfortunately, there is a gap in the fossil record throughout the Middle Jurassic. However, fossil teeth discovered in Madagascar indicate that the split between the lineage leading to monotremes and the one leading to other living mammals had occurred by . After dominating land vertebrate niches for about 150 Ma, the non-avian dinosaurs perished in the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event () along with many other groups of organisms. Mammals throughout the time of the dinosaurs had been restricted to a narrow range of taxa, sizes and shapes, but increased rapidly in size and diversity after the extinction, with bats taking to the air within 13 million years, and cetaceans to the sea within 15 million years.\nThe first flowering plants appeared around 130 Ma. The 250,000 to 400,000 species of flowering plants outnumber all other ground plants combined, and are the dominant vegetation in most terrestrial ecosystems. There is fossil evidence that flowering plants diversified rapidly in the Early Cretaceous, from , and that their rise was associated with that of pollinating insects. Among modern flowering plants \"Magnolia\" are thought to be close to the common ancestor of the group. However, paleontologists have not succeeded in identifying the earliest stages in the evolution of flowering plants.\nThe social insects are remarkable because the great majority of individuals in each colony are sterile. This appears contrary to basic concepts of evolution such as natural selection and the selfish gene. In fact, there are very few eusocial insect species: only 15 out of approximately 2,600 living families of insects contain eusocial species, and it seems that eusociality has evolved independently only 12 times among arthropods, although some eusocial lineages have diversified into several families. Nevertheless, social insects have been spectacularly successful; for example although ants and termites account for only about 2% of known insect species, they form over 50% of the total mass of insects. Their ability to control a territory appears to be the foundation of their success.\n\nThe sacrifice of breeding opportunities by most individuals has long been explained as a consequence of these species' unusual haplodiploid method of sex determination, which has the paradoxical consequence that two sterile worker daughters of the same queen share more genes with each other than they would with their offspring if they could breed. However, E. O. Wilson and Bert Hölldobler argue that this explanation is faulty: for example, it is based on kin selection, but there is no evidence of nepotism in colonies that have multiple queens. Instead, they write, eusociality evolves only in species that are under strong pressure from predators and competitors, but in environments where it is possible to build \"fortresses\"; after colonies have established this security, they gain other advantages through co-operative foraging. In support of this explanation they cite the appearance of eusociality in bathyergid mole rats, which are not haplodiploid.\n\nThe earliest fossils of insects have been found in Early Devonian rocks from about , which preserve only a few varieties of flightless insect. The Mazon Creek lagerstätten from the Late Carboniferous, about , include about 200 species, some gigantic by modern standards, and indicate that insects had occupied their main modern ecological niches as herbivores, detritivores and insectivores. Social termites and ants first appear in the Early Cretaceous, and advanced social bees have been found in Late Cretaceous rocks but did not become abundant until the Middle Cenozoic.\n\nThe idea that, along with other life forms, modern-day humans evolved from an ancient, common ancestor was proposed by Robert Chambers in 1844 and taken up by Charles Darwin in 1871. Modern humans evolved from a lineage of upright-walking apes that has been traced back over to \"Sahelanthropus\". The first known stone tools were made about , apparently by \"Australopithecus garhi\", and were found near animal bones that bear scratches made by these tools. The earliest hominines had chimpanzee-sized brains, but there has been a fourfold increase in the last 3 Ma; a statistical analysis suggests that hominine brain sizes depend almost completely on the date of the fossils, while the species to which they are assigned has only slight influence. There is a long-running debate about whether modern humans evolved all over the world simultaneously from existing advanced hominines or are descendants of a single small population in Africa, which then migrated all over the world less than 200,000 years ago and replaced previous hominine species. There is also debate about whether anatomically modern humans had an intellectual, cultural and technological \"Great Leap Forward\" under 100,000 years ago and, if so, whether this was due to neurological changes that are not visible in fossils.\nLife on Earth has suffered occasional mass extinctions at least since . Although they were disasters at the time, mass extinctions have sometimes accelerated the evolution of life on Earth. When dominance of particular ecological niches passes from one group of organisms to another, it is rarely because the new dominant group is \"superior\" to the old and usually because an extinction event eliminates the old dominant group and makes way for the new one.\n\nThe fossil record appears to show that the gaps between mass extinctions are becoming longer and the average and background rates of extinction are decreasing. Both of these phenomena could be explained in one or more ways:\n\nBiodiversity in the fossil record, which is \"...the number of distinct genera alive at any given time; that is, those whose first occurrence predates and whose last occurrence postdates that time\" shows a different trend: a fairly swift rise from ; a slight decline from , in which the devastating Permian–Triassic extinction event is an important factor; and a swift rise from to the present.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56164607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56164607", "title": "Fred Woudhuizen", "text": "Fred Woudhuizen\n\nFrederik Christiaan Woudhuizen (born 13 February 1959) is an independent scholar who studies ancient Indo-European languages, hieroglyphic Luvian/Luwian, and Mediterranean protohistory. He is the former editor of \"Talanta, Proceedings of the Dutch Archaeological and Historical Society\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30745362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30745362", "title": "Hamida Khuhro", "text": "Hamida Khuhro\n\nHamida Khuhro (13 August 1936 – 12 February 2017) was a Pakistani politician and historian who twice served as Sindh's Minister for Education and also served as a Professor of History at the University of Sindh.\n\nKhuhro is the daughter of Muhammad Ayub Khuhro, a former Chief Minister of Sindh. She has a PhD in South Asian History from the University of London and also attended the Universities of Karachi, Cambridge and Oxford. She is a Muslim and is married.\n\nAs an academic historian, Khuhro taught at Karachi and Oxford universities before becoming a professor at Sindh University.\n\nKhuhro left Sindh University to concentrate on politics and writing. She joined the Sindh National Alliance in 1987 and in 1993 became a member of the Pakistan Muslim League. She had been appointed as Sindh's Minister for Education and Literacy in 1990.\n\nIn 2004, Khuhro was again appointed as Minister for Education.\n\nKhuhro died in Karachi after a brief illness on 12 February 2017, aged 80.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21336437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21336437", "title": "Haute couture", "text": "Haute couture\n\nHaute couture (; ; French for \"high sewing\" or \"high dressmaking\" or \"high fashion\") is the creation of exclusive custom-fitted clothing. \"Haute couture\" is high-end fashion that is constructed by hand from start to finish, made from high-quality, expensive, often unusual fabric and sewn with extreme attention to detail and finished by the most experienced and capable sewers - often using time-consuming, hand-executed techniques. \"Couture\" translates literally from French as \"dressmaking\" but may also refer to fashion, sewing, or needlework and is also used as a common abbreviation of \"haute couture\" and refers to the same thing in spirit. \"Haute\" translates literally to \"high\". A haute couture garment is always made for an individual client, tailored specifically for the wearer's measurements and body stance. Considering the amount of time, money, and skill allotted to each completed piece, haute couture garments are also described as having no price tag: budget is not relevant.\n\nThe term originally referred to Englishman Charles Frederick Worth's work, produced in Paris in the mid-nineteenth century. \"The Dapifer\" notes that Worth would allow his clients to select colors, fabrics and other details before ever beginning his design process which was unheard of at the time. In modern France, haute couture is a protected name that may not be used except by firms that meet certain well-defined standards. However, the term is also used loosely to describe all high-fashion custom-fitted clothing whether it is produced in Paris or in other fashion capitals such as London, Milan, New York City or Tokyo. In either case, the term can refer to the fashion houses or fashion designers that create exclusive and often trend-setting fashions or to the fashions created.\n\nIn France, the term \"haute couture\" is protected by law and is defined by the \"Chambre de commerce et d'industrie de Paris\" based in Paris. The \"chambre syndicale de la haute couture\" is defined as \"the regulating commission that determines which fashion houses are eligible to be true haute couture houses\". Their rules state that only \"those companies mentioned on the list drawn up each year by a commission domiciled at the Ministry for Industry are entitled to avail themselves\" of the label \"haute couture\". The Chambre Syndicale de la Couture Parisienne is an association of Parisian couturiers founded in 1868 as an outgrowth of medieval guilds that regulate its members in regard to counterfeiting of styles, dates of openings for collections, number of models presented, relations with press, questions of law and taxes, and promotional activities. Formation of the organization was brought about by Charles Frederick Worth. An affiliated school was organized in 1930 called L'Ecole de la Chambre Syndicale de la Couture. The school helps bring new designers to help the \"couture\" houses that are still present today. Since 1975, this organization has worked within the Federation Francaise, de couture, du Prêt-à-Porter des Couturiers et des Createurs de Mode.\n\nMore rigorous criteria for \"haute couture\" were established in 1945. To earn the right to call itself a couture house and to use the term \"haute couture\" in its advertising and any other way, members of the Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture must follow specific rules:\n\nThe term \"haute couture\" has taken on further popular meanings referring to non-dressmaking activities, such as production of fine art, music, etc.\n\nHaute couture can be referenced back as early as the 17th Century. Rose Bertin, the French fashion designer to Queen Marie Antoinette, can be credited for bringing fashion and haute couture to French culture. Visitors to Paris brought back clothing that was then copied by local dressmakers. Stylish women also ordered dresses in the latest Parisian fashion to serve as models.\n\nAs railroads and steamships made European travel easier, it was increasingly common for wealthy women to travel to Paris to shop for clothing and accessories. French fitters and dressmakers were commonly thought to be the best in Europe, and real Parisian garments were considered better than local imitations.\n\nA () is an establishment or person involved in the clothing fashion industry who makes original garments to order for private clients. A couturier may make what is known as haute couture. Such a person usually hires patternmakers and machinists for garment production, and is either employed by exclusive boutiques or is self-employed.\n\nThe \"couturier\" Charles Frederick Worth (October 13, 1825 – March 10, 1895), is widely considered the father of \"haute couture\" as it is known today. Although born in Bourne, Lincolnshire, England, Worth made his mark in the French fashion industry. Revolutionizing how dressmaking had been previously perceived, Worth made it so the dressmaker became the artist of garnishment: a fashion designer. While he created one-of-a-kind designs to please some of his titled or wealthy customers, he is best known for preparing a portfolio of designs that were shown on live models at the House of Worth. Clients selected one model, specified colors and fabrics, and had a duplicate garment tailor-made in Worth's workshop. Worth combined individual tailoring with a standardization more characteristic of the ready-to-wear clothing industry, which was also developing during this period.\n\nFollowing in Worth's footsteps were Callot Soeurs, Patou, Poiret, Vionnet, Fortuny, Lanvin, Chanel, Mainbocher, Schiaparelli, Balenciaga, and Dior. Some of these fashion houses still exist today, under the leadership of modern designers.\n\nIn the 1960s, a group of young designers who had trained under men like Dior and Balenciaga left these established \"couture\" houses and opened their own establishments. The most successful of these young designers were Yves Saint Laurent, Pierre Cardin, André Courrèges, Ted Lapidus, and Emanuel Ungaro. Japanese native and Paris-based Hanae Mori was also successful in establishing her own line.\n\nLacroix is one of the fashion houses to have been started in the late 20th century. Other new houses have included Jean-Paul Gaultier and Thierry Mugler. Due to the high expenses of producing haute couture collections, Lacroix and Mugler have since ceased their haute couture activities.\n\nModernized haute couture shows are not designed and made to be sold, rather they are exactly what they are displayed for – for show. Instead of being constructed for the purpose of selling and making money, they are made to further the publicity, as well as perception and understanding of brand image.\n\nFor all these fashion houses, custom clothing is no longer the main source of income, often costing much more than it earns through direct sales; it only adds the aura of fashion to their ventures in ready-to-wear clothing and related luxury products such as shoes and perfumes, and licensing ventures that earn greater returns for the company. Excessive commercialization and profit-making can be damaging, however. Cardin, for example, licensed with abandon in the 1980s and his name lost most of its fashionable cachet when anyone could buy Cardin luggage at a discount store. It is their ready-to-wear collections that are available to a wider audience, adding a splash of glamour and the feel of haute couture to more wardrobes. Fashion houses still create custom clothing for publicity, for example providing items to the television show \"Gossip Girl\".\n\nThe 1960s also featured a revolt against established fashion standards by mods, rockers, and hippies, as well as an increasing internationalization of the fashion scene. Jet travel had spawned a jet set that partied—and shopped—just as happily in New York as in Paris. Rich women no longer felt that a Paris dress was necessarily better than one sewn elsewhere. While Paris is still pre-eminent in the fashion world, it is no longer the sole arbiter of fashion.\n\nFor the Spring 2017 season the official list of members are:\n\nRecent guest members have included the fashion houses of Boudicca, Cathy Pill, Richard René and Udo Edling, as well as Eymeric François, , and Ma Ke (Wuyong). In the 2008/2009 Fall/Winter Haute Couture week, Emanuel Ungaro showed as an Official Member.\n\nThe largest private collection of haute couture may be that of Mouna Ayoub, whose collection is estimated to encompass more than 1,600 items.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17075723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17075723", "title": "Henry Guerlac", "text": "Henry Guerlac\n\nHenry Edward Guerlac (June 14, 1910 – May 29, 1985) was an American historian of science. He taught at Cornell University where he was the Goldwin Smith Professor of History and a member of the Department of History.\n\nGuerlac earned his PhD in European history from Harvard in 1941.\n\nDuring World War II, he worked in the MIT Radiation Laboratory with Marie Boas Hall in writing \"the history of the laboratory and of the operational use of radar during the war.\" Bolas Hall later joined him as a PhD student at Cornell, completing her studies with him in 1952.\n\nHe was awarded the Pfizer Award in 1959 by the History of Science Society for his book \"Lavoisier: The Crucial Year\", and was given the Dexter Prize from the American Chemical Society in 1972. He won the George Sarton Medal, the highest award given by the History of Science Society, in 1973. He served as president of the society from 1957-60. He was a Guggenheim Fellow in 1978, and in 1982 was awarded the Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur by France.\n\n"}
{"id": "36346052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36346052", "title": "Hollow Sword Blade Company", "text": "Hollow Sword Blade Company\n\nThe Hollow Sword Blades Company was a British joint-stock company founded in 1691 by a goldsmith, Sir Stephen Evance, for the manufacture of hollow-ground rapiers. \n\nThe company ceased manufacturing swords in 1702 following the suicide of its founder and was purchased by a syndicate of businessmen who used the corporate identity of the company to operate as a bank. At this time the Bank of England held a monopoly by act of parliament as the only organisation permitted to operate as a bank in England, so anyone wishing to carry out banking operations had to do so by devious means. The company was used as a stepping stone to the foundation of the South Sea Company which set out to supplant the Bank of England as banker to the government.\nSir Stephen Evance was a goldsmith whose father had been born in New England, but who had set up a business in Lombard Street in London. Evance did not confine his interests simply to metalwork, but had attempted salvage work with a diving machine, lead mining, mineral prospecting in Canada, a fishing enterprise off the coast of Ireland in partnership with Sir James Houblon (one of the founders of the Bank of England) and a draper named Samuel Ongley.\n\nSir Stephen Evance was Governor of the Hudson's Bay Company during 1692-1696 and 1700-1712. He first acquired stock in the Hudson's Bay Company in February 1684, and he was a good friend of the company who would arrange money and other favours for the company. For this, Evance received a gratuity from the Deputy Governor of 50 \"Gunneys[sic]\" to buy a couple of horses to pull his coach. Sir Stephen never married or had any children of his own, but he did have a niece either named Hester Child who inherited Sir Stephen's estate, which was significant even after his debts were paid. Despite this, before his death, Sir Stephen had large debts and his suicide by pistol is reputed to be a result of Sir Stephen believing that his situation, at the time of his death, indicated a terminal failure in life. \n\nIn 1691, war between France and England interrupted the importation of hollow ground swords from France which had become popular weapons in England and a business opportunity presented to manufacture the swords in England. Evance arranged for Huguenot metalworkers to move to Britain to manufacture the swords and obtained a charter of corporation as the 'Governor and Company for Making Hollow Sword Blades in England', granted 13 October 1691.\nThe company obtained premises at Shotley Bridge in Durham. Granting of the charter plus two patents was on condition the applicants loaned the government £50,000, which sum was provided by Evance and Sir Francis Child in August 1692. Evance was appointed the first governor of the company, Peter Reneu the deputy governor, assistants Francis Tissen, Matthew Evans, John Carter, John Holland, Abraham Dashwood, John Samford, Robert Peter, Thomas Evans, Peter Justice, John Reneu, William Reneu, John Baker. The corporation had power to purchase land and issue stock to unlimited value.\n\nThe company manufactured swords and by virtue of the charter had power to seize imported foreign hollow swords. Evance became an excise commissioner and succeeded Childs as jeweller to King William III. However, after the king's death in 1702 the business failed and Evance committed suicide. One of the swordsmiths employed by the company, Herman Mohll continued to manufacture swords at Shotley in his own right under the name Herman Mohll and son, founding a company which continued with a change of name to Mole in 1832. The company was purchased by Wilkinson Sword in 1922.\n\nThe Hollow Sword Blade Company was sold and moved to Birchin Lane in London, to the premises of its new company secretary, John Blunt, a scrivener (lawyer specialising in business and financial contracts). The sale was probably arranged by Francis Child, whose son was a banker and business associate of Blunt. The new Governor was Elias Turner, a goldsmith with a shop in Lombard street under the sign of the Fleece, who provided both finance and experience. The deputy Governor was Jacob Sawbridge, who came from a business family and who had a small estate in Canterbury. The fourth partner, George Caswall, came from Leominster which his family had represented as MP for generations. His father had been Mayor, and Receiver of the land tax for Monmouthshire. Caswall was a partner with another goldsmith, Brassey, specialising in finance and trading securities. Daniel Defoe described them: \"Sawbridge is as cunning as Caswall is bold, and the reserve of the one with the openness of the other makes a complete Exchange Alley man. Turner ... acts in concert..and makes together a complete triumvirate of thieving\". (Exchange Alley was the place where stock trading and other financial transactions took place in London.) The objective of the partnership was to break into the business monopolised by the Bank of England, which was handling and providing loans for the government.\n\nIn 1703 the company purchased some of the Irish estates forfeited under the Williamite settlement in counties Mayo, Sligo, Galway, and Roscommon. They also bought the forfeited estates of the Earl of Clancarty (McCarthy) in counties Cork and Kerry and of Sir Patrick Trant in counties Kerry, Limerick, Kildare, Dublin, King and Queen's counties (Offaly and Laois). Further lands in counties Limerick, Tipperary, Cork and other counties, formerly the estate of James II were also purchased, also part of the estate of Lord Cahir in county Tipperary. In June 1703 the company bought a large estate in county Cork, confiscated from a number of attainted persons and other lands in counties Waterford and Clare. However within about 10 years the company had sold most of its Irish estates. Francis Edwards, a London merchant, was one of the main purchasers.\nThe recent conquest of Ireland by England had resulted in the confiscation of land from Jacobites which had been given to members of the army. Blunt was amongst others who campaigned that the property should instead have been sold to defer government expenses, and an act of parliament was passed cancelling the grants of land which instead were to be sold. The Sword Blade company now used its charter powers to own property to purchase land to the value of £200,000 with anticipated revenues of £20,000 per year, or 10%. To pay for this, the company used a trick which the Bank of England had employed in its own creation. The Hollow Sword Blades Company issued shares, which it was also entitled to do under its charter. It offered to exchange its own shares at a nominal value of £100 for £100 of government debt issued by the army paymaster. The government was willing to accept its own debt as payment for the land, so no cash money was required for the transactions. The army debt could at that time only be sold on the open market at a rate of £85 per £100 of face value, so this offered a way for holders to realise a better price. The land remained the property of the company, and the company would pay dividends on the shares from its rental income.\n\nThe deal was negotiated with the treasury by Blunt and their legal advisor, Lake and agreed on 1 June 1704. Once the debt was cancelled, the government no longer had to pay interest upon it, which it had been doing at 7.5%. However, it also required a 'sweetener' in the form of receiving a new loan of £20,000 at 5% as part of the deal, secured against Royal shares in Cornish tin. \n\nBefore announcing the offer, the Sword Blade Syndicate made full advantage of the anticipated rise in value of army debt, by buying as much as it could privately beforehand. This was then sold as the price rose once the general market realised there was an offer available to trade in the debt at its full value.\n\nThe Sword Blade company also branched out into providing mortgages for other would be purchasers of Irish land, accepting cash deposits and issuing its own notes. This came to the attention of the Bank of England, who advised the treasury that their own monopoly to act as a bank was being infringed. The treasury took no action. In part, the government recognised that it had a good deal it did not wish to spoil. There was also a legal complication, that the Bank act protected it against any other company being set up by act of parliament to operate as a bank. In the case of the sword company charter, although the steps to enact its charter had been commenced, they had never actually been completed in parliament.\n\nThe Bank of England charter was due to expire in 1710, and they were concerned to arrange its renewal. Others, however, continued to lobby parliament not to do so, and a new syndicate had formed, offering to take on funding of the latest loan required by government. The Bank responded by dropping its interest rate to underbid the competition, and succeeded in renewing its charter until 1732, with more strictly drawn terms to prevent others operating as banks.\n\nFurther complications faced the Sword Blade company, as title to land in Ireland began to be disputed by relatives of dispossessed Jacobites and others claiming to have bought from the initial beneficiaries of the first cancelled land distribution. The matter was settled by an act of parliament in 1708 setting a time limit on further claims, but by then the company stock had fallen to £55 per nominal £100 issued. As some consolation, pressure was also mounting on the Bank of England from an increasingly distressed government seeking new ways to raise money.\n\n"}
{"id": "28649373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28649373", "title": "Illyrian coinage", "text": "Illyrian coinage\n\nIllyrian coinage which began in the 6th century BC continued up to the 1st century of Roman rule. It was the southern Illyrians who minted the first coins followed by the northern Illyrian during the Roman era. Illyrian coins have also been found in other areas apart from Illyria, such ancient Macedonia, Italy, Greece, Asia Minor and Egypt.\n\nThe earliest Illyrian coins were probably minted by the Tyntenoi north of Lake Ohrid minted coins around 540 BC with the Greek legend Tynteni. Their silver coins reached Italy, Egypt and many parts of Asia. They belonged to the group of 'Thraco-Macedonian' coinages of this period, and they bore the same emblems as the coins of Ichnae at the head of the Thermaic Gulf. Production ceased in the early 5th century BC, most likely in 475 BC when this period was one of comparative poverty, during which contacts were lost with mainland Greece and relations with Ionia via the Danube valley slackened.\n\nThe Messapians in southern Italy minted coins in the early 5th century BC. They were an early imitation of the Greek coins from Magna Grecia. The cities which minted these early mints were Valesio, Brindisi, Nardò, Oria, Ugento, Grax and Samadi. Valesio struck silver coins, Nardò silver and bronze while from the 3rd century BC only bronze coins were issued. The coins feature Lapagus, an ancient Iapygian hero. Other features included Athena, Heracles and Zeus.\n\nAt the same time as the Messapians, the Paeonian tribe of the Derrones were also producing coins. These coins are traditionally dated to 500 BC – 450 BC. Frequent depictions on the coins attributed to the Derrones are Oxen and Corinthian helmets. Their god, Darr(h)on, was worshipped by Paionians and Macedonians. The Paeonian kings dealt greatly and seriously with the minting coins. However this activity in terms of quality and appearance did not differ much from Greek coins. Even the Paeonians themselves at this time were becoming hellenized more and more and lost to a great degree their characteristic as a non-Greek people.\n\nThe earliest Illyrian coins in Illyria were minted from the start of the 4th century BC in the Illyrian city of Damastion and Daparria by the Illyrian tribe of the Dyestes under Bardylis, which had been influenced by Hellenization to an extent. For about 200 years, this city minted silver coins with symbols imitating those of the Hellenic cities in the Aegean, as well as original symbols such as tongs of a metal smelter. The circulation of Damastion coins included Kosovo, southern Serbia, Macedonia and the Adriatic coast from Shkodër to Split. The presence of silver mines around the city in ancient sources made it possible for the minting of coins in such a great abundance.\n\nThe only kings to have minted coins bearing their names were Lycceius, Patraus, Audoleon, Monunius, Mytilus, Gentius and Ballaios.\n\nThe coinage of Patraus is remarkable. They have on the obverse a head of Apollo, which may be in allusion to the king's name, Apollo being known under the name of Patraus. On the reverse of the coins is a horseman riding over an enemy, in allusion to triumphs over the Macedonians and an inscription of the king.\n\nThe coins of Audoleon have a head wearing a Corinthian helmet on the obverse and on the reverse a horse stepping, very boldly executed and the inscription of the king.\n\nThe first Dardanian king to have minted silver coins was Monunius in the beginning of the 3rd century BC, around 280 BC. He struck his coins in the Greek colony of Durrës and they differed only in having the jaw of a boar set over the cow, as a symbol of the royal Illyrian house. The coins also had the abbreviated inscription 'ΔYP' (for Durrës) to donate the place where they were minted, as well as showing royal sovereignty over the city. These coins have been found in great numbers in the Illyrian city of Gurëzeza, and in the interior of Albania beyond Apollonia. The Illyrian kingdom under Monunius extended as far as the Lyncestian Lakes, and from here Monunius could have intervened in the quarrel about the Macedonian throne, eventually turning into a claimant for it. This surely is the meaning of the minting of a second series of silver coins bearing his name and traditional Macedonian symbols, the head of Heracles on the face and on the reverse, Olympian Zeus sitting on his throne. That this, was a short lived dream of the Illyrian king is shown by the fact that so few coins were minted, so much that only one specimen is preserved today.\n\nMytilus, the successor of King Monunius, struck his coins 10 years later around 270 BC. His bronze coinage with the symbols of the city of Durrës in Albania bear his name. The coinage of Apollonia in the same period bore only his monogram, as well as symbols similar to those of the Aetolian League.\n\nThe most productive conage is of Gentius who ruled from 181 BC. Two of his mints were located in Shkodra, the ancient Illyrian capital at the time of his regn, and in Lezha, both located in modern-day north-eastern Albania. His coins were also struck in Durrës, where the royal title is absent from any silver coin, and the name Gentius, not uncommon to an Illyrian male, may belong not to the king but to a local magistrate. However, around 30 to 40 examples of bronze coins have been recorded with the legend 'King Genthios'. Upon his defeat by the Romans in 168 BC his treasury of 120,000 silver pieces were conveyed to Rome.\n\nBallaios reigned after the kingdom of Gentius was dissolved into the Roman Empire from around 167 BC – 135 BC. The abundance of the coinage of Ballaios in the region would suggest that he was a powerful and influential king although no literary of historical evidence of him exists. The coins of the well-known king Gentius are scarce in comparison to the coins of Ballaios. His silver issues are rare, but bronze coins (without the royal title) occur on Hvar in Croatia, both in single finds and in hoards, and at Rhizon, the ancient capital of Queen Teuta, in a different series bearing the royal title. The coins of Ballaios were widely imitated in the region, sometimes so crudely that they are unintelligible. Ballaios struck coins in two cities: Pharos and Rhizon. The weight of the bronze coins are between 1.0 and 4.5 g, while most of the documented specimens weigh between 2.0 and 2.5 g. The relativity great impact of the coinage of Ballaios is indicated by a large number of imitations of his coins. His coins are found in both the eastern Adriatic shores and frequently in Italy, which confirms the trade contacts between the two Adriatic coasts.\n\nOn the obverse of his coins a bust of the king facing left to right is depicted, while on the reverse Artemis (advancing or standing) is represented, with or without a torch and sometimes carrying one or two spears. It is significant that Ballaios also had silver coins minted, which indicates his wealth and power, since elsewhere in Dalmatia, silver coinage is very rarely documented from the Greek and Illyrian mints.\n\nThe coins of ancient Lissus, modern-day Lezha, with the legend 'LISSITAN' began with autonomous issues under the Macedonian influences (211 BC – 197 BC). The coins were followed later by the issues of Gentius with a ship on the reverse and a third series from the period after the kings removal. Lissus minted coins on behalf of the community of the Lissians and minted a rare coin with an inscription over the head of an Illyrian god wearing a causia type hat. The face depicted on the Lissian coins was originally though to be of King Gentius, although Albanian archaeologist, Hasan Ceka was proved it to by the head of the Illyrian sea god, Rodon. The head of Artemis and an Illyrian shield is depicted on some Lissian coins. The Shkodra coins fall into three similar groups, the first and third with the legend 'SKODRI-NON' and the second with the legend of king Gentius. In the city of Rhizon a mint was established that issued several coinages. These incleded autonomous coinages of the town, in bronze, the royal coinage of king Ballaios, in silver and bronze, most probably, the coinage labeled “Coinage from the Rhizonian Gulf”, which has been considered as the coinage of an alliance in which Rhizon played a part, in silver and bronze.\nThe chronology of these coinages is still not defined with precision, primarily because the historical background of their issuance remains little known. There is hardly any mention in the literary sources of the town of Rhizon, and none of the king Ballaios. However, several features of these coinages - such as the characteristics of style, elements of inscription and iconography (especially the presence of the title “basileus” on the coinage of Ballaios, and the presence of a Macedonian shield on the “Coinage from the Rhizonian Gulf”), metrology, choice of coined metals, etc. – point to the 3rd and 2nd centuries BCE as the general chronological framework for the activity of the Rhizonian mint and for the successive issuance of the coinages of different issuing authorities there. Around Lake Scutari the Labeates issued a rare type of bronze coin, bearing the head of an Illyrian deity and a Liburnian warship with a dolphin swimming underneath. Between 217 BC and 84 BC the city of Oria in Italy minted coins with the head of Lapagus, the ancient Iapygian hero. In Daorson the capital of the Daorsi in modern Bosnia, 39 different coins (29 bearing the image of King Ballaios from 168 BC, and 9 with a Greek inscription and a boat image) have been discovered. Money was of immense importance to the Daorsi, ensuring the tribe's independence while also confirming their well developed business, cultural and trade links with other peoples. Illyrian coins also appeare in other ancient cities especially those in the south of Illyria, such as in the Illyrian/Greek cities of Byllis, Amantia, Pelion and Olympe. The koinon of the Bylliones centred on the city of Byllis minted its own bronze coins. The first coins came out around 270 BC and continued until 167 BC when the Romans dissolved the koinon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57079783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57079783", "title": "Ira Philip", "text": "Ira Philip\n\nIra Philip (16 December 1925 – 9 April 2018) was a Bermudian writer and politician.\n\nPhilip was born in Somerset Village, Bermuda, on 16 December 1925. His journalism career stretched six decades and was primary associated with the \"Bermuda Recorder\" and the ZFB. Philip counted Richard Allen, Marcus Garvey and A. Philip Randolph among his influences. He later represented the Progressive Labour Party as a member of the Senate, and, in 2015, received the Drum Major Awards from the PLP. Philip died, aged 92, on 9 April 2018.\n"}
{"id": "1192321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1192321", "title": "Jans der Enikel", "text": "Jans der Enikel\n\nJans der Enikel, i.e. \"Jans the Grandson\" was a Viennese poet and historian of the late 13th century. He wrote a \"Weltchronik\" (history of the world) and a \"Fürstenbuch\" (history of Vienna), both in Middle High German verse.\n\nThe \"Weltchronik\" tells the history of the world, starting even before the six-day creation by telling of Satan's rebellion in Heaven, and relating the Biblical stories of the Old Testament (oddly not the New), then continuing with Homer and other classical Greek and Roman material, and on down the list of Emperors through Charles the Great to Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nThe style is anecdotal, with many fun tales inserted into what might otherwise be sober history. For example, the reign of Frederick II is interrupted to tell an entirely fictional story of a nobleman named Friedrich von Antfurt. This Friedrich subjects a duchess to what we today could only call sexual harassment, to the point where she thinks up a ruse to get rid of him. She promises to give him what he wants (the poet makes no bones about the fact that he only wants her body) provided he takes part in a joust wearing her chemise (underdress) instead of his armour. She is of course counting on him being killed. But he survives, and there has to be a reckoning.\n\nJans is recorded in a number of Viennese documents for the years 1271-1302. He is known to have been a member of one of the highest patrician families of the city.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46585986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46585986", "title": "John F. Richards", "text": "John F. Richards\n\nJohn F. Richards (November 3, 1938 - August 23, 2007) was a historian of South Asia and in particular of the Mughal Empire. He was Professor of History at Duke University, North Carolina, and a recipient in 2007 of the Distinguished Contributions to Asian Studies Award. He participated in and encouraged a multi-disciplinary, multi-regional approach to studies.\n\nJohn Richards was born on November 3, 1938 in Exeter, New Hampshire. His parents, Frank F. Richards and Ella Higgins Richards, subsequently had two more children.\n\nRichards graduated from the University of New Hampshire as valedictorian in 1961 and on the same day he married his high school sweetheart, Ann Berry. The couple moved to California and, in 1968, to Madison when he received an appointment at the University of Wisconsin. He was awarded a PhD in History by the University of California at Berkeley in 1970. His thesis, later published at \"Mughal Administration in Golconda\" (1975), was written under the direction of Thomas R. Metcalf. This established him as \"one of the leading historians of the Mughal Empire in the United States\", according to David Gilmartin, and he went on to write a volume of \"The New Cambridge History of India\" titled \"The Mughal Empire (1993).\n\nOther works by Richards on the Mughal period include \"The Imperial Monetary System of Mughal India\" (1987) and \"Kingship and Authority in South Asia\" (1998). The impact of the Mughal empire on world events caused him to consider the Mughals to be an \"early modern\" empire, rather than the medieval one that most commentators believed it to be. It was this belief that led him into studies of world trade and state finances, as well as early modern world environmental history. In 2003, he published \"The Unending Frontier: Environmental History of the Early Modern World\" (2003).\n\nRichards had worked at Duke University since 1977. He was heavily involved with administration of the Council of American Overseas Research Centers and in reforming the troubled American Institute of Pakistan Studies. He was also in the vanguard of establishing the American Institute of Afghanistan Studies, the first meeting of which took place at Duke University in 2003 and of which he was the founding president.\n\nRichards died of cancer at home in Durham, North Carolina, on August 23, 2007, days before he was due to retire. He had two children.\n\nA \"festschrift\" titled \"Expanding Frontiers in South Asian and World History: Essays in Honour of John F. Richards\" was published in 2013, edited by Richard M. Eaton, Munis D. Faruqui, Gilmartin and Sunil Kumar.\n\nIn 2011, the American Historical Association inaugurated a prize named in his honor. This is awarded for the best book on South Asian history published during each year.\n"}
{"id": "52765992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52765992", "title": "Kanchan Pande", "text": "Kanchan Pande\n\nKanchan Pande (born 1958) is an Indian Isotope geologist, geochronologist and a professor at the department of earth sciences of the Indian Institute of Technology Mumbai. He is known for his studies on the evolution of continental flood basalts in the Indian subcontinent and is an elected fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, the apex agency of the Government of India for scientific research, awarded him the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology, one of the highest Indian science awards for his contributions to Earth, Atmosphere, Ocean and Planetary Sciences in 2003.\n\nKanchan Pande, born on 14 March 1958 in the Indian state of Uttaranchal, completed his master's degree in geology at Kumaun University in 1981 and secured PhD in Geochronology and Isotope geology from Gujarat University in 1990. His career started at Physical Research Laboratory in 1990 as a scientist (Grade D) and he held the position of an associate professor from 1998 to 2002 before becoming a professor in 2003. However, his service as a professor at PRL lasted only 5 months and in June 2003, he moved to the Indian Institute of Technology Mumbai as a professor at the department of earth sciences and holds the post till date.\n\nPande is known to have done extensive research on the geochronology of the region covering the Deccan Traps. His researches are reported to have assisted in understanding the \"geochronological constraints for the evolution of continental flood basalts in the Indian subcontinent\" and highlighted their geological and geochemical impact which has been detailed in an article, \"Age and duration of the Deccan Traps, India: A review of radiometric and paleomagnetic constraints\", published in June 2002. His studies have been documented in several peer-reviewed articles; ResearchGate, an online repository of scientific articles, has listed 70 of them.\n\nPande, who was selected as Young Associate of the Indian Academy of Sciences in 1987, received the Young Scientist Medal of the Indian National Science Academy in 1989. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research awarded him the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize, one of the highest Indian science awards in 2003. The National Academy of Sciences, India elected him as a fellow in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "48345834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48345834", "title": "Killycluggin Stone", "text": "Killycluggin Stone\n\nThe Killycluggin Stone is a decorated stone, which has been interpreted by some as the cult image of Crom Cruach. It was found at Killycluggin, County Cavan, in 1921 (Site number 93, Killycluggin townland, “Archaeological Inventory of County Cavan”, Patrick O’Donovan, 1995, p. 19). O'Kelly, however, refers to this image as Crom Dubh. Roughly cone-shaped and covered in Iron Age La Tène designs , it was discovered broken in several pieces and partly buried close to a Bronze Age stone circle, inside which it probably once stood. The site has several associations with St. Patrick. Nearby is \"Tobar Padraig\" (St. Patrick's Well), and Kilnavert Church, which is said to have been founded by the saint. Kilnavert was originally called \"Fossa Slécht\" or \"Rath Slécht\", from which the wider Magh Slécht area was named.\n\nAlthough now much damaged, the stone can be reconstructed from the different surviving pieces. It was at least 6 foot high. At the base of the stone there were four rectangular adjoining panels measuring 90 cm each in width giving a circumference of 3m 60 cm when it was first carved. The height of each panel was about 75 cm. When excavated and placed upright on its flat base, it was found to lean obliquely to the left from the vertical, perhaps explaining the name \"Crom\", \"bent, crooked\". The Killycluggin Stone, as it is known, is now in the Cavan County Museum, while a rough replica stands near the road about 300 metres from the original site.\n\nThe 14th century Book of McGovern, written in Magh Slécht, contains a poem which states that Crom was situated at Kilnavert beside the road and that the local women used to tremble in fear as they passed by. There is still a local tradition in the area that the Killycluggin stone is the Crom stone.\n\nThe top of the stone has a Hair-motif which is found on other La Tène sculptures, such as this head from Mšecké Žehrovice, Czech Republic. The implication is that the Killycluggin stone was an anthropomorphic figure with a human face, which was the part that was smashed to pieces. Support for this is given by-\n\n"}
{"id": "56176306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56176306", "title": "List of renamed places in Mozambique", "text": "List of renamed places in Mozambique\n\nThis is a list of renamed places in Mozambique. During the Portuguese colonial period, several places had their African names changes to honor Portuguese people or places. Other settlements were simply founded by the Portuguese and named as such. After Mozambican independence in 1975, a number of cities, towns, streets, and other places were renamed, replacing Portuguese names with African names. The country itself was renamed Mozambique upon independence, having previously been called Portuguese Mozambique or Portuguese East Africa.\n\nUntil 1978, Mozambique's provinces were called districts.\n\n\nIn 1975, many street names were changed in Maputo. They are listed below, translated into English:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "270183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270183", "title": "List of years in politics", "text": "List of years in politics\n\nThis page indexes the individual year in politics pages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19425707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19425707", "title": "Mamadou Diouf (historian)", "text": "Mamadou Diouf (historian)\n\nMamadou Diouf is the Leitner Family Professor of African Studies, the Director of Institute for African Studies, and a professor of Western African history at Columbia University. He also serves as director of the Institute of African Studies at SIPA and has been instrumental in its recent reorganization. Diouf holds a Ph.D. in history from the University of Paris-Sorbonne. Prior to teaching at Columbia, he taught at the University of Michigan and before that at Cheikh Anta Diop University in Dakar, Senegal. Diouf also serves on the editorial board of several academic journals, including the \"Journal of African History\", \"Psychopathologie Africaine\", and \"Public Culture\". His research interests include the urban, political, social, and intellectual history of colonial and postcolonial Africa. His most recent books are \"La Construction de l’Etat au Sénégal\", written with M. C. Diop & D. Cruise O’Brien and published in 2002 and \"Histoire du Sénégal: Le modèle islamo-wolof et ses périphéries\", published in 2001. He is currently editing \"Rhythms of the Atlantic World\" with Ifeoma Nwanko and \"New Perspectives on Islam in Senegal: Conversion, Migration, Wealth, Power and Femininity\" with Mara Leichtman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4480937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4480937", "title": "Margaret Bentinck, Duchess of Portland", "text": "Margaret Bentinck, Duchess of Portland\n\nMargaret Cavendish Bentinck, Duchess of Portland (11 February 1715 – 17 July 1785) was a British aristocrat, styled Lady Margaret Harley before 1734, Duchess of Portland from 1734 to her husband's death in 1761, and Dowager Duchess of Portland from 1761 until her own death in 1785.\n\nThe duchess was the richest woman in Great Britain of her time and had the largest natural history collection in the country, complete with its own curator, the parson-naturalist John Lightfoot, and the Swedish botanist Daniel Solander. Her collection included costly art objects including the Portland Vase. Her ambition for her collection was for it to contain and to describe every living species.\n\nShe was a member of the Bluestockings, a group of social intellectuals led by women. She was also great-great-great-great grandmother of Queen Elizabeth II through her mother's side.\n\nShe was the only surviving child of the 2nd Earl of Oxford and Mortimer, bibliophile, collector and patron of the arts, and the former Lady Henrietta Holles (1694–1755, the only child and heir of the 1st Duke of Newcastle and his wife, the former Lady Margaret Cavendish).\n\nLady Margaret grew up at Wimpole Hall in Cambridgeshire, surrounded by books, paintings, sculpture and in the company of writers such as Alexander Pope, Jonathan Swift and Matthew Prior as well as aristocrats and politicians. As a child, she collected pets and natural history objects (especially seashells) and was encouraged by her father and her paternal grandfather, the 1st Earl of Oxford and Mortimer, to do so.\n\nAt 19, on 11 July 1734, in Oxford Chapel, Marylebone, she married the 2nd Duke of Portland, her 'Sweet Will', and they later had six children (all born at Welbeck Abbey):\n\n\nIn 1738–1756 the scholar Elizabeth Elstob was their tutor.\n\nBy the November following her marriage, her collecting had gathered pace, expanding to include the decorative and fine arts as well as natural history. (She was already heiress to the Arundel collection.) Her home in Buckinghamshire, Bulstrode Hall, provided space to house the results, and her independent fortune meant that cost was no object (on her mother’s death in 1755 she also inherited the estates of Welbeck in Nottinghamshire). Bulstrode was known in court circles as \"The Hive\" for the intense work done there on the collections by the Duchess and her team of botanists, entomologists and ornithologists, headed by herself, Daniel Solander (1736–82, specialising in seashells and insects) and The Revd John Lightfoot (1735–88, her librarian and chaplain, and an expert botanist). Her collection was, unlike many similar contemporary ones, well-curated.\n\nIn 1766, the Genevan Romantic and philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau met Bentinck, admired her knowledge of botany, despite his opinion that women could not be scientific, and offered his services as her \"herborist\" (plant collector). She corresponded with Rousseau until she sent him a copy of Georg Rumpf's \"Herbarium amboinense\", a botany of Amboyna in what is now Indonesia, as he felt this opposed his ideal of free nature.\n\nThe Portland Museum at Bulstrode was open to visitors, along with its zoo, aviary and vast botanic garden. Many came: scholars, philosophers, scientists and even royalty, and the collection became a \"cause célèbre\". Her fellow collector Horace Walpole commented on it:\n\nor, in the words of Mrs Delany (a botanical artist and longtime friend):\n\nHer collecting was also encouraged by her creative milieu: the Duchess and Delany were both members of The Bluestockings, a group of aristocratic women seeking increased intellectual opportunities for members of their sex.\n\nHer natural collection was the largest and most famous of its time, with few geographical bounds; it included objects from both Lapland and the South Seas (she patronised James Cook and bought shells from his second voyage through dealers). She drew and recorded its specimens, sorting them innovatively in type species and displaying them alongside ancient remains such as the Portland Vase, which she bought from Sir William Hamilton.\n\nLightfoot later wrote in the introduction to the 1786 auction catalogue that it was her \"intention to have had every unknown species in the three kingdoms of nature described and published to the world\", but this was thwarted by Solander's death in 1783 and her own two years later. On her death, with her children uninterested in the collection, her son's political career to finance and her creditors' demands to be paid, it was her will that it be sold. The collection was entirely dissolved at an auction of over 4,000 lots at her Whitehall residence from 24 April to 3 July 1786. Hundreds of people attended, although some fine and decorative arts were bought back by her family at the auction, including the Portland Vase and pieces from a silver-gilt dessert service the Duchess had designed herself, crawling with exquisitely modelled insects. However, the vast majority went, including the whole natural history collection; Walpole records that only eight days included items other than \"shells, ores, fossils, birds' eggs and natural history.\" Only fragments of the Portland Museum's building survive too, since Bulstrode was demolished in the 19th century.\n\nThe department of Manuscripts and Special Collections, The University of Nottingham holds some of the personal papers and correspondence of the Duchess of Portland (Pw E), as part of the Portland (Welbeck) Collection. The Harley Gallery's Treasury Museum shows changing displays of objects from the Portland Collection.\n\nThe duchess was one of twenty-one 'ladies of quality and distinction' who supported Thomas Coram's campaign for the establishment of a Foundling Hospital, signing his petition to King George II on 7th May 1735. Their recognition of the need for a home for orphans and abandoned children was crucial in encouraging male relatives to support Coram's project. As a result of their influence he gained signatures from the nobility, professionals, gentlemen and the judiciary for two further petitions in 1737. A Royal Charter was granted in 1739 to which her husband, William Bentinck, was one of the first signatories. Her father, Edward Harley, signed Coram's gentlemen's petition on the same day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1359335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1359335", "title": "Mary McCarthy (author)", "text": "Mary McCarthy (author)\n\nMary Therese McCarthy (June 21, 1912 – October 25, 1989) was an American novelist, critic and political activist.\n\nBorn in Seattle, Washington, to Roy Winfield McCarthy and his wife, the former Martha Therese Preston, McCarthy was orphaned at the age of six when both her parents died in the flu epidemic of 1918. She and her brothers, Kevin, Preston, and Sheridan, were raised in very unhappy circumstances by her Catholic father's parents in Minneapolis, Minnesota, under the direct care of an uncle and aunt she remembered for harsh treatment and abuse.\n\nWhen the situation became intolerable, she was taken in by her maternal grandparents in Seattle. Her maternal grandmother, Augusta Morganstern, was Jewish, and her maternal grandfather, Harold Preston, a prominent attorney and co-founder of the law firm Preston Gates & Ellis, was Presbyterian. (Her brothers were sent to boarding school.) McCarthy credited her grandfather, who helped draft one of the nation's first Workmen's Compensation Acts, with helping form her liberal views. McCarthy explores the complex events of her early life in Minneapolis and her coming of age in Seattle in her memoir, \"Memories of a Catholic Girlhood\". Her younger brother, actor Kevin McCarthy, went on to star in such movies as \"Death of a Salesman\" (1951) and \"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\" (1956).\n\nUnder the guardianship of the Prestons, McCarthy studied at the Forest Ridge School of the Sacred Heart in Seattle and Annie Wright Seminary in Tacoma, and went on to graduate from Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, New York, in 1933 with an A.B., cum laude, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.\n\nMcCarthy left the Catholic Church as a young woman when she became an atheist. In her contrarian fashion, McCarthy treasured her religious education for the classical foundation it provided her intellect while at the same time she depicted her loss of faith and her contests with religious authority as essential to her character.\n\nIn New York, she moved in \"fellow-traveling\" Communist circles early in the 1930s, but by the latter half of the decade she repudiated Soviet-style Communism, expressing solidarity with Leon Trotsky after the Moscow Trials, and vigorously countering playwrights and authors she considered to be sympathetic to Stalinism.\n\nAs part of the \"Partisan Review\" circle and as a contributor to \"The Nation\", \"The New Republic\", \"Harper's Magazine\", and \"The New York Review of Books\", she garnered attention as a cutting critic, advocating the necessity for creative autonomy that transcends doctrine. During the 1940s and 1950s she became a liberal critic of both McCarthyism and Communism. She maintained her commitment to liberal critiques of culture and power to the end of her life, opposing the Vietnam War in the 1960s and covering the Watergate scandal hearings in the 1970s. She visited Vietnam a number of times during the Vietnam War. Interviewed after her first trip, she declared on British television that there was not a single documented case of the Viet Cong deliberately killing a South Vietnamese woman or child. She wrote favorably about the Viet Cong.\n\nShe married four times. In 1933 she married Harald Johnsrud, an actor and would-be playwright. Her best-known spouse was the writer and critic Edmund Wilson, whom she married in 1938 after leaving her lover Philip Rahv, and with whom she had a son, Reuel Wilson. In 1946 she married Bowden Broadwater, who worked for the \"New Yorker\". In 1961, McCarthy married career diplomat James R. West.\n\nAlthough she broke ranks with some of her \"Partisan Review\" colleagues when they swerved toward conservative politics after World War II, she carried on lifelong friendships with Dwight Macdonald, Nicola Chiaromonte, Philip Rahv, F. W. Dupee and Elizabeth Hardwick. Perhaps most prized of all was her close friendship with Hannah Arendt, with whom she maintained a sizable correspondence widely regarded for its intellectual rigor. After Arendt's passing, McCarthy became Arendt's literary executor from 1976 until her own death in 1989. McCarthy taught at Bard College from 1946 to 1947, and once again between 1986 and 1989. She also taught a winter semester in 1948 at Sarah Lawrence College.\n\nHer debut novel, \"The Company She Keeps,\" received critical acclaim as a succès de scandale, depicting the social milieu of New York intellectuals of the late 1930s with unreserved frankness. After building a reputation as a satirist and critic, McCarthy enjoyed popular success when the 1963 edition of her novel \"The Group\" remained on the New York Times Best Seller list for almost two years. Her work is noted for its precise prose and its complex mixture of autobiography and fiction.\n\nRandall Jarrell's 1954 novel \"Pictures from an Institution\" is said to be about McCarthy's year teaching at Sarah Lawrence.\n\nHer feud with fellow writer Lillian Hellman formed the basis for the play \"Imaginary Friends\" by Nora Ephron. The feud had simmered since the late 1930s over ideological differences, particularly the questions of the Moscow Trials and of Hellman's support for the \"Popular Front\" with Stalin. McCarthy provoked Hellman in 1979 when she famously said on \"The Dick Cavett Show\": \"every word [Hellman] writes is a lie, including 'and' and 'the'.\"\n\nHellman responded by filing a $2.5 million libel suit against McCarthy, which ended shortly after Hellman died in 1984. Observers of the trial noted the resulting irony of Hellman's defamation suit is that it brought significant scrutiny, and decline of Hellman's reputation, by forcing McCarthy and her supporters to \"prove\" that she had lied.\n\nMcCarthy also engaged in a controversy with USAF general James Risner over their meeting while he was a POW in North Vietnam.\n\nMcCarthy was the winner of the Horizon Prize in 1949, and was awarded two Guggenheim fellowships in 1949 and 1959. She was a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters and the American Academy in Rome. In 1973, she delivered the Huizinga Lecture in Leiden, the Netherlands, under the title \"Can There Be a Gothic Literature?\" The same year she was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She won the National Medal for Literature and the Edward MacDowell Medal in 1984.\n\nMcCarthy held honorary degrees from Bard, Bowdoin, Colby, Smith College, Syracuse University, the University of Maine at Orono, the University of Aberdeen, and the University of Hull.\n\nMcCarthy died of lung cancer on October 25, 1989, at NewYork–Presbyterian Hospital in New York City.\n\nIn the 2012 German movie \"Hannah Arendt\", Mary McCarthy is portrayed by Janet McTeer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44267964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44267964", "title": "Max van Berchem", "text": "Max van Berchem\n\nMax van Berchem (16 March 1863, Geneva – 7 March 1921, Vaumarcus) was a Swiss epigraphist and historian. Best known as a pioneer of Arabic epigraphy, he created \"Corpus Inscriptionum Arabicarum\", an impressive collection of Arabic inscriptions.\nHe studied at the Universities of Geneva, Leipzig, Strasbourg and Berlin, receiving his degree in 1886 with the dissertation \"La propriété territorial et l'impôt sous les premiers califes\".\n\nAfter graduation, he embarked on scientific expeditions to Egypt (several trips from 1887 to 1890), Jerusalem and Palestine (1888, 1893 and 1914), and Syria (1884, 1895). On these journeys he studied and collected a vast amount of Arabic inscriptions (\"Matériaux pour un Corpus Inscriptionum Arabicarum\"). Being aware of the enormity of this project, he divided the work amongst others, mostly French and German scholars, with Berchem, for the most part, limiting his personal investigations to the cities of Cairo, Jerusalem and Damascus. In his work, he used photography as a means to record Arabic inscriptions. Between 1895 and 1914, he dedicated most of his time and energy towards the publication of the large amount of textual material that he had accumulated.\n\nSince 1973 the \"Max van Berchem Foundation\" has financed archaeological excavations, research projects and studies in Islamic art and architecture throughout the Middle East and north Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "638132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=638132", "title": "Miguel León-Portilla", "text": "Miguel León-Portilla\n\nMiguel León-Portilla (born 22 February 1926 in Mexico City) is a Mexican anthropologist and historian, and a major authority on Aztec thought and literature in the prehispanic and colonial eras. Many of his works have been translated to English and are widely read. The Library of Congress bestowed on him the Living Legend Award in 2013.\n\nMiguel León-Portilla had an interest in indigenous Mexico at an early age, fostered by his uncle Manuel Gamio, a distinguished archeologist. Gamio had a lasting influence on his life and career, initially taking him as a boy on trips to important archeological sites in Mexico and later as well. León-Portilla attended the Instituto de Ciencias in Guadalajara and then earned a B.A. (1948) and M.A. summa cum laude (1951) at the Jesuit Loyola University in Los Angeles. Returning to Mexico in 1952, he showed Gamio a play he had written on Quetzalcoatl, which resulted in Gamio introducing his nephew to Ángel Garibay K.. Garibay's publications in the 1930s and 1940s first brought Nahuatl literature to widespread public attention in Mexico. Needing to make a living, León-Portilla began attending law school and worked at a financial firm. At the same time he taught at Mexico City College, an English-language school in the Condesa neighborhood. Other instructors included important scholars of Mexican indigenous history and culture, , Fernando Horcasitas, and Eduardo Noguera. Gamio persuaded León-Portilla to drop his law studies and job in business to work at the Instituto Indigenista Interamericano, which Gamio directed. León-Portilla begin graduate studies at UNAM, completing his doctoral dissertation, “La Filosofía Náhuatl estudiada en sus fuentes,” which launched his scholarly career.\n\nHis dissertation Nahua philosophy was published in Mexico, and then translated to English as \"Aztec Thought and Culture: A Study of the Ancient Nahuatl Mind\" (1967) and then many other languages. It was the first of his many works to be translated to English. His translations of Nahuatl and Spanish texts on the conquest of Mexico, first published in Mexico as \"Visión de los vencidos\", translated to English as \"The Broken Spears\", is the way many undergraduate students in the United States are introduced to accounts from indigenous participants and not Spanish conquistadors.\n\nLeón-Portilla has spearheaded a movement to understand and re-evaluate Nahuatl literature and religion, not only from the pre-Columbian era, but also that of the present day, especially since Nahuatl is still spoken by 1.5 million people. His works in English on literature include \"Pre-Columbian Literatures of Mexico\" (1986)., \"Fifteen Poets of the Aztec World\" (2000), and with Earl Shorris, \"In the Language of Kings: An Anthology of Mesoamerican Literature, Pre-Columbian to the Present\" (2002). He has also compared the literature of the Nahuas with that of the Inca. Another area of research is on indigenous religion and spirituality, with works including \"Native Meso-American Spirituality\" (1980), and \"South and Meso-American Native Spirituality: From the Cult of the Feathered Serpent to the Theology of Liberation\" (1997) He has also published a work on the Maya, \"Time and Reality in the Thought of the Maya\" (1990).\n\nLeón-Portilla was instrumental in bringing to light the works of Franciscan Fr. Bernardino de Sahagún, a 16th-century primary source on the Aztec civilization, whose twelve-volume \"General History of the Things of New Spain\", often referred to as the \"Florentine Codex\" are crucial for understanding Nahua religion, society, and culture, as well as an account of the conquest of Mexico from the Mexica viewpoint. León-Portilla was the first to denote Sahagún as the \"Father of Anthropology in the New World\".\n\nHe has contributed to the understanding of the development of the field of Mesoamerican history in Mexico. With Garibay, León-Portilla made contributions to the study of nineteenth-century Mesoamerican historian Manuel Orozco y Berra. León-Portilla also published two volumes on the work Mexican humanists, including his mentor Garibay.\n\nIn the field of colonial Nahuatl studies, particularly the New Philology, León-Portilla's work on a collection of late sixteenth-century wills in Nahuatl, \"The Testaments of Culhuacan\", has contributed to the understanding of local-level interactions within a Nahua town.\n\nA subordinate but important interest of León-Portilla has been the early history and ethnography of the Baja California Peninsula. He has addressed this region in more than 30 books and articles, including a 1995 volume collecting several of his earlier publications.\n\nEarly in his academic career in 1969, he was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship. the first of many academic awards and recognitions, including the Belisario Domínguez Medal of Honor, the highest award bestowed by the Mexican Senate. In 1995, he was elected to membership of the National Academy of Sciences. On December 12, 2013, León-Portilla received the Living Legend Award from the U.S. Library of Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "25911903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25911903", "title": "Missile launch facility", "text": "Missile launch facility\n\nA missile launch facility, also known as an underground missile silo, launch facility (LF), or nuclear silo, is a vertical cylindrical structure constructed underground, for the storage and launching of intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs).\n\nThe structures typically have the missile some distance below ground, protected by a large \"blast door\" on top. They are usually connected, physically and/or electronically, to a missile launch control center.\n\nUntil the 1960s ICBMs had been launched from surface bases. The Soviet Union used completely above-ground launchers similar to those found at a spaceport. In many cases they were the same ones used for civilian launches, such as Site 1 and Site 31. They were vulnerable to bomber attacks by the United States.\n\nThe La Coupole facility is the earliest known precursor to modern underground missile silos still in existence. It was built by the forces of Nazi Germany in northern Occupied France, between 1943 and 1944, to serve as a launch base for V-2 rockets. The facility was designed with an immense concrete dome to store a large stockpile of V-2s, warheads and fuel, and was intended to launch V-2s on an industrial scale. Dozens of missiles a day were to be fuelled, prepared and rolled just outdoors of the facility's concrete casing, launched from either of two outdoor launch pads in rapid sequence against London and southern England. A similar-purpose but less-developed facility, the Blockhaus d'Eperlecques, had also been built, some 14.4 kilometers (8.9 miles) north-northwest of La Coupole, and closer to intended targets in southeastern England.\n\nFollowing repeated heavy bombing by Allied forces during Operation Crossbow, the Germans were unable to complete construction of the works and the complex never entered service. The United Kingdom conducted post-war investigations, determining that it was \"an assembly site for long projectiles most conveniently handled and prepared in a vertical position\".\n\nThe first underground missile silo was built in the 1950s by the United Kingdom, to house their Blue Streak missiles. Only one test underground missile silo was built in the UK, at RAF Spadeadam. The UK cancelled the Blue Streak silo project, since the Soviets had developed missiles that could attack with little warning and insufficient time to arm Blue Streak missiles. The UK's ICBM nuclear missile launch mode was changed in 1960, to submarine-launched ballistic missiles.\n\nThe German idea of an underground missile silo was adopted and developed by the United States for missile launch facilities for its intercontinental ballistic missiles. Most silos were based in Colorado, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Missouri, Montana, Wyoming and other western states away from heavily populated cities, although a few launch facilities had previously been located in remote areas of Upstate New York and northern New England. They had many defense systems to keep out intruders and other defense systems to prevent destruction (see Safeguard Program).\n\nThe Atlas missiles used four different storage and launching methods.\n\nLaunch facility (LF) configurations varied by U.S. missile systems.\n\nThe former Soviet Union had missile silos in Russia and adjacent Soviet states during the Cold War, such as the Plokštinė missile base in Lithuania. The Main Centre for Missile Attack Warning, near Solnechnogorsk outside Moscow, was completed in by the Soviet Union in 1971, and remains in use by the Russian Federation.\n\nWith the introduction of the Soviet UR-100 and the U.S. Titan II missile series, underground silos changed in the 1960s. Both missile series introduced the use of hypergolic propellant, which could be stored in the missiles, allowing for rapid launches. Both countries' liquid fueled missile systems were moved into underground silos. The introduction of solid fuel systems, in the later 1960s, made the silo moving and launching even easier.\n\nThe underground missile silo has remained the primary missile basing system and launch facility for land-based missiles since the 1960s. The increased accuracy of inertial guidance systems has rendered them somewhat more vulnerable than they were in the 1960s. The U.S. spent considerable effort and funds in the 1970s and 1980s designing a replacement, but none of the new and complex system designs were ever produced.\n\nThe United States built many missile silos in the Midwest, away from populated areas. Many were built in Colorado, Nebraska, South Dakota, and North Dakota. Today they are still used, although many have been decommissioned and hazardous materials removed. Today they are popular houses and sites of urban exploration.\n\nThe People's Republic of China, the former Soviet Union and current Russian Federation possess mobile ICBMs. The United States of America had plans to develop mobile ICBMs but these projects were canceled at the end of the Cold War.\n\nThey include the:\n\nThe increase of decommissioned missile silos has led governments to sell some of them to private individuals. Some buyers convert them into unique homes, ultimate safe rooms, or for other purposes.\n\nIn 2000 William Leonard Pickard and a partner were convicted, in the largest lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) manufacturing case in history, of conspiracy to manufacture large quantities of LSD in a decommissioned SM-65 Atlas missile silo near Wamego, Kansas.\n\n"}
{"id": "53892486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53892486", "title": "Nuclear escalation", "text": "Nuclear escalation\n\nNATO doctrine about Nuclear Escalation in the cold war.\n\nNATO, is an alliance of nations that via three permanent members (USA, UK, and France) is a nuclear alliance. This alliance was formed in order to provide a blanket of security for Western European nations, Canada, and the United States against the Soviet Union. NATO members get the safety of Nuclear weapons being shared to its members from one of the 3 permanent members. However, the U.S. was the primary defender of the other countries upon NATO’s formation, due to its vast nuclear arsenal that it lays at the disposal for the organization. NATO’s escalation policies did not take hold until the late 1950’s. During the previous time the weapons and capabilities of NATO’s combined members alongside the U. S’s vast nuclear arsenal were enough to keep their citizenry calm. NATO policy would amalgamate from the U. S’s initial nuclear strength. Russia lacked ICBM’s or long range missiles to directly threaten the U.S. In contrast, the U.S. had stationed bombers within NATO countries in Europe that could deliver nuclear payloads to designated targets within the Soviet Union if they attempted to start a war. One of these was the U.S. Corporal missile with a range of 120 kilometers (70–80 miles) and had a one kiloton warhead. After the late 1950’s the USSR was able to raise its Nuclear arsenal and delivery methods to have the U.S become a capable target. Many of the European NATO countries became worried that the US’s massive firepower was equaled by the USSR and that the United states would have no reason to come to European aid with the new possibility of any attack from the U.S being met in kind with similar or greater means of nuclear arms directed at the U.S. created NATO’s response of ‘Massive Retaliation’.\n\nEuropean nations had the potential to become Nuclear battlefields. If a war between superpowers were to break out, even if not originating in Europe, would quickly engulf it. The possibility of Warsaw pact nations under the USSR attacking Western Europe ensured all possible conflicts of nuclear escalation. It would escalate from conventional warfare to the use of tactical Nuclear weapons and then the possibility of going further and using intermediate nuclear weapons existed. The existence of nuclear weapons such as the U.S. Corporal missile, Redstone missile, Sergeant, and a missile called the Davy Crockett that was so small it could be fired by one man from the back of a jeep. These weapons given to Europe from the U.S. made it evident that if a nuclear war were to occur, it would almost surely engulf Europe as well. Strong ties, culturally, economic, and political tie the U.S with many European nations and the umbrella of NATO not only offered protection for these European countries, but also put them within the USSR’s attack possibilities in a nuclear war.\n\nNATO created policies to counter-attack the USSR as well as how to deal with them without a nuclear trigger in changing how conventional warfare would be conducted. The first alternative, horizontal escalation in which if the USSR were to attack a European country, all of Europe would be engulfed in a war. The war would be pushed outside into new theaters external to where it originated as to help spread the USSR thin militarily. NATO acknowledges that this form of escalation could not be carried out by NATO. NATO was not equipped with massive divisions of troops. NATO members could not justify the waste in money in having to keep a large peace time standing military. \n\nThe second policy being temporal escalation, a policy in which an effort is made to prolong war long enough until one side can no longer keep up with war time efforts and all available resources become exalted or a stalemate prevents either side from claiming victory. This second policy is viewed as the more conventional way to deal with the USSR. It would attempt to force the soviets into a war of attrition to force a stalemate and swiftly bring an end to any possibly conflict before nuclear means could become an option. It has several flaws, one is if a war with western powers and allies’ vs the USSR and its compatriots would create a similar war to that of World War 2 and that it could be drawn out for four years with nobody introducing a nuclear weapon attack, Calculations at the time showed that the possible war would last 3 to 4 months and would be the longest a war of its type. \n\nThe third policy is called ‘surprise escalation’, in which it was a theory held by NATO that it was a feasible means to avoid vertical escalation. A surprise attack would be launched to cripple the attacked country, in this case Russia, from retaliating with nuclear weapons. An example of this would be if the Soviet Union were to attack Germany, and enter the NATO operational area, would be quickly surrounded by NATO forces to prevent an accelerated push into Europe. This plan relied heavily on the ability of NATO to operate with a thin margin of error. Their conventional retaliation approach would rely on intelligence gained from outside means and a miss estimate could cause the initial encirclement force to become isolated away from the group and annihilated by the Soviet Union.\n\nNATO began to evolve from its previous policies and began to devise a plan suggested to it by the United States called ‘flexible response’. By NATO reasoning in the face of an all-out USSR invasion of Europe, the U.S. still guaranteed strategic help, and with a USSR invasion, it would upset the balance of world powers and force the U.S. to enter due to its many international interests that would be jeopardized. The ‘Flexible response’ policy laid out a plan for NATO in which it would develop a capacity to respond to any forms of USSR aggression without help from the U.S until all forms of action were taken and they are, battlefield, conventional, theater, or Nuclear weapons. European NATO members quickly let it be known of the great cost that would be required to complete the ‘flexible position’ and that sort of cost is what they were avoiding once before in the ‘50’s when the proposal for a large ground force for NATO had been suggested. The policy of ‘Flexible Response’ was met with doubt from some Europeans. The U.S guaranteed the defense of NATO nations after NATO battlefield strategy, and theatre strategy fail in the face of an attack from the USSR, but some Europeans contended that the intermediate steps of Flexible Response were superfluous. The Europeans whom raised this argument believed that the previous stance of NATO by threatening massive retaliation against the USSR, in which the U.S. was more than willing to respond to any attack with nuclear weapons if the USSR even thought about attacking any NATO member. They felt that massive retaliation was the better course of action due to it unfolding from a small conflict to a war of two superpowers. These doubts within the smaller NATO countries would come to fruition when France quit believing in the past NATO ideology that heralded the U.S. as a martyr in which they would engulf their entire country in war for its allies in Europe. This led to the creation of Frances own nuclear defense program, and France would withdraw from NATO’s integrated military structure.\n\nIn 1967 NATO officially accepted the doctrine of ‘Flexible Response’, but the European member’s anxieties of it came to fruition in changing how the policy was implemented. The first proposed change was to create a larger conventional standing force that if destroyed, the U.S. would then respond in kind to the USSR with nuclear weapons. This change was not fully followed through. NATO did not increase its conventional force size, and by not doing so they retained a meager standing military that could be annihilated by the USSR in moments. This policy, after the Europeans amalgamated it, allowed them to retain the previous defense employed. NATO forces were insignificant, but the U.S nuclear might was superior and it created the deterrence they sought at the time. To further increase deterrence NATO adopted dual capable missile systems, such as the 155mm artillery. It allowed for the delivery of either a conventional payload or a nuclear one. This was not done only for simplicity of ordinance, but as a sign to any USSR aggression that they were prepared to use nuclear weapons given to them.\n\nNATO had a good foundation of Nuclear weapons provided by the U.S and a small amount via Britain. They possessed 1,081 155mm artillery, 319 203 mm artillery, 90 Lance missiles, 91 Honest John missiles, and 180 Pershing 1A missiles that were all nuclear capable with allocated nuclear payloads. In 1974 France created the Pluton. It was an all French tactical missile and made it available to NATO. It was a fully mobile, accurate missile with the capability to deliver a 25-kiloton bomb for attacking rear areas, or a smaller 15-kiloton bomb designed to destroy advancing troops. By 1981, over 30 Pluton units were deployed with available reloads accompanying them throughout Europe. NATO’s battlefield deterrence was not the bulk of its later capabilities in the ‘80’s. NATO also possessed a large amount of nuclear capable aircraft that could be used in multiple roles, nuclear and non-nuclear, within a conflict.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17748457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17748457", "title": "Päiviö Tommila", "text": "Päiviö Tommila\n\nJuhani Päiviö Tommila (4 August 1931 in Jyväskylä), is a Finnish historian and professor at Helsinki University.\n\nPäiviö Tommila became PhD in 1962 with his dissertation \"La Finlande dans la politique européenne en 1809–1815\". He was assistant at the university of Helsinki 1959-65 and associate professor 1962-67. Tommila was professor in Finlands history at the University of Turku 1965-76 and professor in Finlands history at Helsinki University 1976-94. He served as rector of the University of Helsinki from 1988 to 1992.\n\nTommila has focused on Finnish history, foremost its political history in the 19th century, urban and journalistic history, and also historiography.\n\nHe is an Academician, a member of the Academy of Finland since 2004.\n\nHis father is Eero Tommila, professor for chemistry at Helsinki University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2644707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2644707", "title": "Racial liberalism era", "text": "Racial liberalism era\n\nRacial liberalism is an era in American history during the 1940s that is considered by many historians as the precursor to the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s. \n\nHistorians contend that the era of racial liberalism had its roots in New Deal liberalism. President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal programs laid out a legacy that inspired and empowered many American citizens who had fallen victim to the Great Depression to challenge the power of corporations and other institutions. \n\nThe Double V campaign is considered one of the most important events during the period of racial liberalism. The purpose of the campaign was to raise awareness about segregation and racism during World War II. \n\nThe War was also a source of racial liberalism in that previously marginalized groups of Americans were able to gain a foothold in the economy due to the need for a strong labor force. This gain in economic power translated into strong political power, and as a result, certain government actions, such as Executive Order 8802, were implemented to aid these groups.\n\nThere were three basic ideas to 1940s racial liberalism:\n\nSome historians argue that though racial liberalism helped to pave the way for civil rights movements in America, it failed to recognize that people from many different ethnic backgrounds were affected by racism in the United States. Much of racial liberalist efforts emphasized \"the Negro problem\" – that the marginalization of African Americans in the United States should be addressed – rather than emphasizing the impacts of racial inequality for all of those affected. This prevented many racial minorities from benefiting from the fruits of racial liberalism.\n\nAnother criticism is that many proponents of racial liberalism attempted a \"one-size-fits-all\" solution to racism in the 1940s. This was also a failing point in that not all solutions for African-Americans were good for other non-white groups at the time.\n\nRacial liberalism was also relatively unsuccessful in its endeavor to pressure government to step in and stop racist practices, particularly because of the limited financial resources of the United States government at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "35080176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35080176", "title": "Rebati Ramanananda Shrestha", "text": "Rebati Ramanananda Shrestha\n\nRebati Ramanananda Shrestha (Devanagari: रेबति रमणानन्द श्रेष्ठ) (1932–2002) was a Nepalese freedom fighter, journalist and Nepal Bhasa author. He also wrote under the pen name R. R. N. Syasya (रे. रे. न. स्यस्य). His works range from poems and epics to essays and short stories. He has written books on history, language, culture and religion.\n\nShrestha (alternative names: Rebati Ramanananda Shrestha Vaidya and Revatiramanananda Sreshtha Vaidya) was born in Kathmandu to father Basudevananda and mother Chandra Maya Shrestha. He was educated at Durbar High School in Kathmandu.\n\nShrestha joined the underground movement against the Rana dynasty in 1948 while a student at Durbar High. In 1949, he formed an underground organization named Suhrid Mandal to carry on the struggle for democracy in Nepal. The group disbanded as the authorities were beginning to close in on it.\n\nAfter finishing the School Leaving Certificate (SLC) exams in 1949, Shrestha became general secretary of Rana Bidrohi Mandal (\"Anti-Rana Organization\") and continued to work in the democracy movement. He gave up active politics and turned to writing and serving Nepal Bhasa following the overthrow of the Rana regime and establishment of democracy in 1951.\n\nShrestha enrolled in Nepal National College in 1954. His first publication was \"Malakha\" (meaning \"Dragon\"), a collection of poems, which came out in 1955. In 1956, while a student at Tri-Chandra College, he helped establish Nepal Bhasa Sahitya Pala, an organization of students, with the objective of conducting literary activities in Nepal Bhasa.\n\nShrestha has served as an editor of Nepal Bhasa literary magazines \"Thaunkanhe\" and \"Nepal\". He was an executive member of the Nepal Bhasa Academy.\n\nAmong his notable works are: \n"}
{"id": "51336916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51336916", "title": "Stephen Foster's sketchbook", "text": "Stephen Foster's sketchbook\n\nStephen Foster’s sketchbook is the hand-written book authored by early American composer and lyricist Stephen Collins Foster. It spans a nine-year period beginning on June 26, 1851. It was donated to the University of Pittsburgh Library System by the Foster family in the early 1930s. The National History Education Clearinghouse considers it a \" useful resource for those researching Foster or the history of 19th-century American music and culture.\"\n\nThe sketchbook measures and contains 113 leaves of half-bound paper. The papers are of the same material and contained in a cover of thick paper boards, covered in red and blue marbleized paper and brown leather. Eight pages are missing. One page had been cut out by the composer’s granddaughter but was restored to its original place in the sketchbook. The entries are consistent, similar and handwritten with pencil. The book is inscribed “Allegheny City June 26, 1851” in Foster’s hand on page 1.\n\nThe sketchbook contains handwritten draft texts for sixty-four different songs. Some of these were some of his most popular. Some pages contain musical notations, draft lyrics are for unpublished songs, scribbles, doodles, and exercises. In some places it appears that Foster practiced his signature and initials.\n\nIn addition to the digital version, a photostat of the sketchbook was published by the staff of the Foster Hall Collection in 1933. This full transcript of the book was created by Deane L. Root and edited by Kathryn Miller Haines in June 2000. The Transcript field within the database contains the text and is searchable. Foliation (recto and verso) numbers were supplied in 1986 using archival techniques.\n\nThe draft and original text for Foster's song \"Jeanie with the Light Brown Hair\" is contained in the sketchbook. In addition, Foster records his meeting with Charles Dickens while Dickens was visiting in Pittsburgh.\n\nDr. Julia Craig-McFeeley of the Digital Image Archive of Medieval Manuscripts in Oxford, England created the digitized version of the sketchbook in March 2005. The digitizing was performed by a PhaseOne PowerPhase FX digital scanning back mounted on a Fuji GX 680 III professional SLR camera body and medium format lens at a resolution of 800dpi.\n\nStephen Foster's sketchbook was used as a display and exhibition for recent visits from library archivists.\n\nThis is one of only a few pieces autobiographical, besides a few short letters to his family. Morrison Foster destroyed most other written documents having to do with the life of the composer. The Center For American music describes the sketchbook as \"The most significant item in this subseries is Foster's manuscript or sketchbook...\"\n"}
{"id": "53226986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53226986", "title": "Stolpersteine in the Lake Constance district", "text": "Stolpersteine in the Lake Constance district\n\nThe Stolpersteine in the Lake Constance district lists all Stolpersteine that have been collocated in Friedrichshafen and Überlingen in the Bodenseekreis (\"Lake Constance district\") in the very South of Germany. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide.\n\nThe Stolpersteine in the Bodenseekreis were collocated by the artist himself on the following dates:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30691222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30691222", "title": "Technicolor", "text": "Technicolor\n\nTechnicolor is a series of color motion picture processes, the first version dating from 1916, and followed by improved versions over several decades.\n\nIt was the second major color process, after Britain's Kinemacolor, and the most widely used color process in Hollywood from 1922 to 1952. Technicolor became known and celebrated for its highly saturated color, and was initially most commonly used for filming musicals such as \"The Wizard of Oz\" (1939) and \"Down Argentine Way\" (1940), costume pictures such as \"The Adventures of Robin Hood\" (1938) and \"Gone with the Wind\" (1939), and animated films such as \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" (1937), \"Gulliver's Travels\" (1939), and \"Fantasia\" (1940). As the technology matured it was also used for less spectacular dramas and comedies. Occasionally, even a film noir—such as \"Leave Her to Heaven\" (1945) or \"Niagara\" (1953)—was filmed in Technicolor.\n\n\"Technicolor\" is the trademark for a series of color motion picture processes pioneered by Technicolor Motion Picture Corporation (a subsidiary of Technicolor, Inc.), now a division of the French company Technicolor SA. The Technicolor Motion Picture Corporation was founded in Boston in 1914 (incorporated in Maine in 1915) by Herbert Kalmus, Daniel Frost Comstock, and W. Burton Wescott. The \"Tech\" in the company's name was inspired by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where both Kalmus and Comstock received their undergraduate degrees and were later instructors. Technicolor, Inc. was chartered in Delaware in 1921. Most of Technicolor's early patents were taken out by Comstock and Wescott, while Kalmus served primarily as the company's president and chief executive officer.\n\nThe term \"Technicolor\" historically has been used to describe at least five concepts:\n\nTechnicolor originally existed in a two-color (red and green) system. In Process 1 (1916), a prism beam-splitter behind the camera lens exposed two consecutive frames of a single strip of black-and-white negative film simultaneously, one behind a red filter, the other behind a green filter. Because two frames were being exposed at the same time, the film had to be photographed and projected at twice the normal speed. Exhibition required a special projector with two apertures (one with a red filter and the other with a green filter), two lenses, and an adjustable prism that aligned the two images on the screen. The results were first demonstrated to members of the American Institute of Mining Engineers in New York on February 21, 1917. Technicolor itself produced the only movie made in Process 1, \"The Gulf Between\", which had a limited tour of Eastern cities, beginning with Boston and New York on September 13, 1917, primarily to interest motion picture producers and exhibitors in color. The near-constant need for a technician to adjust the projection alignment doomed this additive color process. Only a few frames of \"The Gulf Between\", showing star Grace Darmond, are known to exist today.\nConvinced that there was no future in additive color processes, Comstock, Wescott, and Kalmus focused their attention on subtractive color processes. This culminated in what would eventually be known as Process 2 (1922) (in the later 1900s commonly called by the misnomer, \"two-strip Technicolor\"). As before, the special Technicolor camera used a beam-splitter that simultaneously exposed two consecutive frames of a single strip of black-and-white film, one behind a green filter and one behind a red filter.\n\nThe difference was that the two-component negative was now used to produce a subtractive color print. Because the colors were physically present in the print, no special projection equipment was required and the correct registration of the two images did not depend on the skill of the projectionist.\n\nThe frames exposed behind the green filter were printed on one strip of black-and-white film, and the frames exposed behind the red filter were printed on another strip. After development, each print was toned to a color nearly complementary to that of the filter: orange-red for the green-filtered images, cyan-green for the red-filtered ones. Unlike tinting, which adds a uniform veil of color to the entire image, toning chemically replaces the black-and-white silver image with transparent coloring matter, so that the highlights remain clear (or nearly so), dark areas are strongly colored, and intermediate tones are colored proportionally. The two prints, made on film stock half the thickness of regular film, were then cemented together back to back to create a projection print. \"The Toll of the Sea\", which debuted on November 26, 1922, used Process 2 and was the first general-release film in Technicolor.\nThe second all-color feature in Process 2 Technicolor, \"Wanderer of the Wasteland\", was released in 1924. Process 2 was also used for color sequences in such major motion pictures as \"The Ten Commandments\" (1923), \"The Phantom of the Opera\" (1925), and \"Ben-Hur\" (1925). Douglas Fairbanks' \"The Black Pirate\" (1926) was the third all-color Process 2 feature.\n\nAlthough successful commercially, Process 2 was plagued with technical problems. Because the images on the two sides of the print were not in the same plane, both could not be perfectly in focus at the same time. The significance of this depended on the depth of focus of the projection optics. Much more serious was a problem with cupping. Films in general tended to become somewhat cupped after repeated use: every time a film was projected, each frame in turn was heated by the intense light in the projection gate, causing it to bulge slightly; after it had passed through the gate, it cooled and the bulge subsided, but not quite completely. It was found that the cemented prints were not only very prone to cupping, but that the direction of cupping would suddenly and randomly change from back to front or vice versa, so that even the most attentive projectionist could not prevent the image from temporarily popping out of focus whenever the cupping direction changed. Technicolor had to supply new prints so the cupped ones could be shipped to their Boston laboratory for flattening, after which they could be put back into service, at least for a while. The presence of image layers on both surfaces made the prints especially vulnerable to scratching, and because the scratches were vividly colored they were very noticeable. Splicing a Process 2 print without special attention to its unusual laminated construction was apt to result in a weak splice that would fail as it passed through the projector. Even before these problems became apparent, Technicolor regarded this cemented print approach as a stopgap and was already at work developing an improved process.\n\nBased on the same dye-transfer technique first applied to motion pictures in 1916 by Max Handschiegl, Technicolor Process 3 (1928) was developed to eliminate the projection print made of double-cemented prints in favor of a print created by \"dye imbibition\". The Technicolor camera for Process 3 was identical to that for Process 2, simultaneously photographing two consecutive frames of a black-and-white film behind red and green filters.\n\nIn the lab, skip-frame printing was used to sort the alternating color-record frames on the camera negative into two series of contiguous frames, the red-filtered frames being printed onto one strip of specially prepared \"matrix\" film and the green-filtered frames onto another. After processing, the gelatin of the matrix film's emulsion was left proportionally hardened, being hardest and least soluble where it had been most strongly exposed to light. The unhardened fraction was then washed away. The result was two strips of relief images consisting of hardened gelatin, thickest in the areas corresponding to the clearest, least-exposed areas of the negative.\n\nTo make each final color print, the matrix films were soaked in dye baths of colors nominally complementary to those of the camera filters: the strip made from red-filtered frames was dyed cyan-green and the strip made from green-filtered frames was dyed orange-red. The thicker the gelatin in each area of a frame, the more dye it absorbed. Each matrix in turn was pressed into contact with a plain gelatin-coated strip of film known as the \"blank\" and the gelatin \"imbibed\" the dye from the matrix. A mordant made from deacetylated chitin was applied to the blank before printing, to prevent the dyes from migrating or \"bleeding\" after they were absorbed.\n\nDye imbibition was not suitable for printing optical soundtracks, which required very high resolution, so when making prints for sound-on-film systems the \"blank\" film was a conventional black-and-white film stock on which the soundtrack, as well as frame lines, had been printed in the ordinary way prior to the dye transfer operation.\n\nThe first feature made entirely in the Technicolor Process 3 was \"The Viking\" (1928), which had a synchronized score and sound effects. \"Redskin\" (1929), with a synchronized score, and \"The Mysterious Island\" (1929), a part-talkie, were photographed almost entirely in this process also but included some sequences in black and white. The following talkies were made entirely – or almost entirely – in Technicolor Process 3: \"On with the Show!\" (1929) (the first all-talking color feature), \"Gold Diggers of Broadway\" (1929), \"The Show of Shows\" (1929), \"Sally\" (1929), \"The Vagabond King\" (1930), \"Follow Thru\" (1930), \"Golden Dawn\" (1930), \"Hold Everything\" (1930), \"The Rogue Song\" (1930), \"Song of the Flame\" (1930), \"Song of the West\" (1930), \"The Life of the Party\" (1930), \"Sweet Kitty Bellairs\" (1930), \"Bride of the Regiment\" (1930), \"Mamba\" (1930), \"Whoopee!\" (1930), \"King of Jazz\" (1930), \"Under a Texas Moon\" (1930), \"Bright Lights\" (1930), \"Viennese Nights\" (1930), \"Woman Hungry\" (1931), \"Kiss Me Again\" (1931) and \"Fifty Million Frenchmen\" (1931). In addition, scores of features were released with Technicolor sequences. Numerous short subjects were also photographed in Technicolor Process 3, including the first color sound cartoons by producers such as Ub Iwerks and Walter Lantz. \"Song of the Flame\" became the first color movie to use a widescreen process (using a system known as Vitascope, which used 65mm film).\n\nIn 1931, an improvement of Technicolor Process 3 was developed which removed grain from the Technicolor film, resulting in more vivid and vibrant colors. This process was first used on a Radio Picture entitled \"The Runaround\" (1931). The new process not only improved the color but also removed specks (that looked like bugs) from the screen, which had previously blurred outlines and lowered visibility. This new improvement along with a reduction in cost (from 8.85 cents to 7 cents per foot) led to a new color revival. Warner Brothers took the lead once again by producing three features (out of an announced plan for six features): \"Manhattan Parade\" (1932), \"Doctor X\" (1932) and \"Mystery of the Wax Museum\" (1933). Radio Pictures followed by announcing plans to make four more features in the new process. Only one of these, \"Fanny Foley Herself\" (1931), was actually produced. Although Paramount Pictures announced plans to make eight features and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer promised two color features, these never materialized. This may have been the result of the lukewarm reception to these new color pictures by the public. Two independently produced features were also made with this improved Technicolor process: \"Legong: Dance of the Virgins\" (1934) and \"Kliou the Tiger\" (1935).\n\nVery few of the original camera negatives of movies made in Technicolor Process 2 or 3 survive. In the late 1940s, most were discarded from storage at Technicolor in a space-clearing move, after the studios declined to reclaim the materials. Original Technicolor prints that survived into the 1950s were often used to make black-and-white prints for television and simply discarded thereafter. This explains why so many early color films exist today solely in black and white.\n\nWarner Bros., which had vaulted from a minor exhibitor to a major studio with its introduction of the talkies, incorporated Technicolor's printing to enhance its films. Other producers followed Warner Bros.' example by making features in color, with either Technicolor, or one of its competitors, such as Brewster Color and Multicolor (later Cinecolor).\n\nConsequently, the introduction of color did not increase the number of moviegoers to the point where it was economical. This and the Great Depression severely strained the finances of the movie studios and spelled the end of Technicolor's first financial successes.\n\nTechnicolor envisioned a full-color process as early as 1924 and was actively developing such a process by 1929. Hollywood made so much use of Technicolor in 1929 and 1930 that many believed the feature film industry would soon be turning out color films exclusively. By 1931, however, the Great Depression took its toll on the movie industry, which began to cut back on expenses. The production of color films had decreased dramatically by 1932, when Burton Wescott and Joseph A. Ball completed work on a new three-color movie camera. Technicolor could now promise studios a full range of colors, as opposed to the limited red-green spectrum of previous films. The new camera simultaneously exposed three strips of black-and-white film, each of which recorded a different color of the spectrum. The new process would last until the last Technicolor feature film was produced in 1955.\nTechnicolor's advantage over most early natural-color processes was that it was a subtractive synthesis rather than an additive one: unlike the additive Kinemacolor and Chronochrome processes, Technicolor prints did not require any special projection equipment. Unlike the additive Dufaycolor process, the projected image was not dimmed by a light-absorbing and obtrusive mosaic color filter layer. Very importantly, compared to competing subtractive systems, Technicolor offered the best balance between high image quality and speed of printing.\n\nThe Technicolor Process 4 camera, manufactured to Technicolor's detailed specifications by Mitchell Camera Corporation, contained color filters, a beam splitter consisting of a partially reflecting surface inside a split-cube prism, and three separate rolls of black-and-white film (hence the \"three-strip\" designation). The beam splitter allowed ⅓ of the light coming through the camera lens to pass through the reflector and a green filter and form an image on one of the strips, which therefore recorded only the green-dominated third of the spectrum. The other ⅔ was reflected sideways by the mirror and passed through a magenta filter, which absorbed green light and allowed only the red and blue thirds of the spectrum to pass. Behind this filter were the other two strips of film, their emulsions pressed into contact face to face. The front film was a red-blind orthochromatic type that recorded only the blue light. On the surface of its emulsion was a red-orange coating that prevented blue light from continuing on to the red-sensitive panchromatic emulsion of the film behind it, which therefore recorded only the red-dominated third of the spectrum.\n\nEach of the three resulting negatives was printed onto a special matrix film. After processing, each matrix was a nearly invisible representation of the series of film frames as gelatin reliefs, thickest (and most absorbent) where each image was darkest and thinnest where it was lightest. Each matrix was soaked in a dye complementary to the color of light recorded by the negative printed on it: cyan for red, magenta for green, and yellow for blue (see also: CMYK color model for a technical discussion of color printing).\n\nA single clear strip of black-and-white film with the soundtrack and frame lines printed in advance was first treated with a mordant solution and then brought into contact with each of the three dye-loaded matrix films in turn, building up the complete color image. Each dye was absorbed, or imbibed, by the gelatin coating on the receiving strip rather than simply deposited onto its surface, hence the term \"dye imbibition\". Strictly speaking, this is a mechanical printing process, very loosely comparable to offset printing or lithography, and not a photographic one, as the actual printing does not involve a chemical change caused by exposure to light.\n\nDuring the early years of the process, the receiver film was preprinted with a 50% black-and-white image derived from the green strip, the so-called Key, or K, record. This procedure was used largely to cover up fine edges in the picture where colors would mix unrealistically (also known as fringing). This additional black increased the contrast of the final print and concealed any fringing. However, overall colorfulness was compromised as a result. In 1944, Technicolor had improved the process to make up for these shortcomings and the K record was, thence, eliminated.\n\nKalmus convinced Walt Disney to shoot one of his \"Silly Symphony\" cartoons, \"Flowers and Trees\" (1932), in Process 4, the new \"three-strip\" process. Seeing the potential in full-color Technicolor, Disney negotiated an exclusive contract for the use of the process that extended to September 1935. Other animation producers, such as the Fleischer Studios and the Ub Iwerks studio, were shut out – they had to settle for either the two-color Technicolor systems or use a competing process such as Cinecolor.\n\n\"Flowers and Trees\" was a success with audiences and critics alike, and won the first Academy Award for Animated Short Film. All subsequent \"Silly Symphonies\" from 1933 on were shot with the three-strip process. One \"Silly Symphony\", \"Three Little Pigs\" (1933), engendered such a positive audience response that it overshadowed the feature films with which it was shown. Hollywood was buzzing about color film again. According to \"Fortune\" magazine, \"Merian C. Cooper, producer for RKO Radio Pictures and director of \"King Kong\" (1933), saw one of the \"Silly Symphonies\" and said he never wanted to make a black-and-white picture again.\"\n\nAlthough Disney's first 60 or so Technicolor cartoons used the three-strip camera, an improved \"successive exposure\" process was adopted circa 1937. This variation of the three-strip process was designed primarily for cartoon work: the camera would contain one strip of black-and-white negative film, and each animation cel would be photographed three times, on three sequential frames, behind alternating red, green, and blue filters (the so-called \"Technicolor Color Wheel\", then an option of the Acme, Producers Service and Photo-Sonics animation cameras). Three separate dye transfer printing matrices would be created from the red, green, and blue records in their respective complementary colors, cyan, magenta and yellow.\n\nSuccessive exposure was also employed in Disney's \"True Life Adventure\" live-action series, wherein the 16mm Kodachrome Commercial principal photography element was first duplicated onto a 35mm fine-grain SE negative element in one pass of the 16mm element, thereby reducing wear on the relatively small 16mm element and also eliminating registration errors between colors. The live-action SE negative thereafter entered other Technicolor processes and were incorporated with SE animation and three-strip studio live-action, as required, thereby producing the combined result.\n\nThe studios were willing to adopt three-color Technicolor for live-action feature production, if it could be proved viable. Shooting three-strip Technicolor required very bright lighting, as the film had an extremely slow speed of ASA 5. That, and the bulk of the cameras and a lack of experience with three-color cinematography made for skepticism in the studio boardrooms.\n\nAn October 1934 article in \"Fortune\" magazine stressed that Technicolor, as a corporation, was rather remarkable in that it kept its investors quite happy despite the fact that it had only been in profit twice in all of the years of its existence, during the early boom at the turn of the decade. A well-managed company, half of whose stock was controlled by a clique loyal to Kalmus, Technicolor never had to cede any control to its bankers or unfriendly stockholders. In the mid-'30s, all the major studios except MGM were in the financial doldrums, and a color process that truly reproduced the visual spectrum was seen as a possible shot-in-the-arm for the ailing industry.\n\nIn November 1933, Technicolor's Herbert Kalmus and RKO announced plans to produce three-strip Technicolor films in 1934, beginning with Ann Harding starring in a projected film \"The World Outside\".\n\nLive-action use of three-strip Technicolor was first seen in a musical number of the MGM feature \"The Cat and the Fiddle\", released February 16, 1934. On July 1, MGM released \"Hollywood Party\" with a Technicolor cartoon sequence \"Hot Choc-late Soldiers\" produced by Walt Disney. On July 28 of that year, Warner Brothers released \"Service with a Smile\", followed by \"Good Morning, Eve!\" on September 22, both being comedy short films starring Leon Errol and filmed in three-strip Technicolor. Pioneer Pictures, a movie company formed by Technicolor investors, produced the film usually credited as the first live-action short film shot in the three-strip process, \"La Cucaracha\" released August 31, 1934. \"La Cucaracha\" is a two-reel musical comedy that cost $65,000, approximately four times what an equivalent black-and-white two-reeler would cost. Released by RKO, the short was a success in introducing the new Technicolor as a viable medium for live-action films. The three-strip process also was used in some short sequences filmed for several movies made during 1934, including the final sequences of \"The House of Rothschild\" (Twentieth Century Pictures/United Artists) with George Arliss and \"Kid Millions\" (Samuel Goldwyn Studios) with Eddie Cantor.\n\nPioneer/RKO's \"Becky Sharp\" (1935) became the first feature film photographed entirely in three-strip Technicolor. Initially, three-strip Technicolor was only used indoors. In 1936, \"The Trail of the Lonesome Pine\" became the first production to have outdoor sequences, with impressive results. The spectacular success of \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" (1937), which was released in December 1937 and became the top-grossing film of 1938, attracted the attention of the studios.\n\nOne major drawback of Technicolor's three-strip process was that the cameras required a special, bulky, large volume sound blimp. Film studios could not purchase Technicolor cameras, only rent them for their productions, complete with camera technicians and a \"color supervisor\" to ensure sets, costumes and makeup didn't push beyond the limitations of the system. Often on many early productions, the supervisor was Natalie Kalmus, ex-wife of Herbert Kalmus and part owner of the company. Directors had great difficulty with her; Vincente Minnelli said, \"I couldn't do anything right in Mrs. Kalmus's eyes.\" The ex-Mrs. Kalmus preferred the title \"Technicolor Director\", although British licensees generally insisted on \"Colour Control\" so as not to \"dilute\" the film director's title. She worked with quite a number of \"associates\", many of whom went uncredited, and after her retirement, these associates were transferred to the licensees, with, for example, Leonard Doss going to Fox where he performed the same function for Fox's DeLuxe Color.\n\nThe process of splitting the image reduced the amount of light reaching the film stock. Since the film speed of the stocks used were fairly slow, early Technicolor productions required a greater amount of lighting than a black-and-white production. It is reported that temperatures on the film set of \"The Wizard of Oz\" from the hot studio lights frequently exceeded 100 °F (38 °C), and some of the more heavily costumed characters required a large water intake. Some actors and actresses claimed to have suffered permanent eye damage from the high levels of illumination.\n\nBecause of the added lighting, triple amount of film, and the expense of producing dye transfer projection prints, Technicolor demanded high film budgets.\n\nColor films that recorded the three primary colors in three emulsion layers on one strip of film had been introduced in the mid-1930s by Eastman Kodak in the United States (Kodachrome for 16mm home movies in 1935, then for 8mm home movies and 35mm slides in 1936) and Agfa in Germany (Agfacolor Neu for both home movies and slides later in 1936). Technicolor introduced \"Monopack\", a single-strip color reversal film (a 35 mm lower-contrast version of Kodachrome) in 1941 for use on location where the bulky three-strip camera was impractical, but the higher grain of the image made it unsuitable for studio work.\n\nEastman Kodak introduced its first 35 mm color motion picture negative film in 1950. The first commercial feature film to use Eastmancolor was the National Film Board of Canada documentary \"Royal Journey\", released in December 1951. In 1952, Eastman Kodak introduced a high-quality color print film, allowing studios to produce prints through standard photographic processes as opposed to having to send them to Technicolor for the expensive dye imbibition process. That same year, the Technicolor lab adapted its dye transfer process to derive matrices and imbibition prints directly from Eastmancolor negatives, as well as other stocks such as Ansco and DuPont color stocks. \"Foxfire\" (1955), filmed in 1954 by Universal, starring Jane Russell and Jeff Chandler, was the last American-made feature photographed with a Technicolor three-strip camera.\n\nIn an attempt to capitalize on the Hollywood 3-D craze, Technicolor unveiled its stereoscopic camera for 3-D films in March 1953. The rig used two three-strip cameras, running a total of six strips of film at once (three for the left eye and three for the right). Only two films were shot with this camera set-up: \"Flight to Tangier\" (1953) and the Martin and Lewis comedy \"Money From Home\" (1954). A similar, but different system had been used by a different company, using two three-strip cameras side-by-side for a British short called \"Royal River\".\n\nAs the end of the Technicolor process became apparent, the company repurposed its three-color cameras for wide-screen photography, and introduced the Technirama process in 1957. Other formats the company ventured into included VistaVision, Todd-AO, and Ultra Panavision 70. All of them were an improvement over the three-strip negatives, since the negative print-downs generated sharper and finer grain dye transfer copies.\n\nBy the mid-1960s, the dye-transfer process eventually fell out of favor in the United States as being too expensive and too slow in turning out prints. With the growing number of screens in the US, the standard run of 200–250 prints increased. And while dye-transfer printing yielded superior color printing, the number of high speed prints that could be struck in labs all over the country outweighed the fewer, slower number of prints that could only be had in Technicolor's labs. One of the last American films printed by Technicolor was \"The Godfather Part II\" (1974).\n\nIn 1975, the US dye transfer plant was closed and Technicolor became an Eastman-only processor. In 1977, the final dye-transfer printer left in Rome was used by Dario Argento to make prints for his horror film \"Suspiria\". In 1980, the Italian Technicolor plant ceased printing dye transfer.\n\nThe British line was shut down in 1978 and sold to Beijing Film and Video Lab which shipped the equipment to China. A great many films from China and Hong Kong were made in the Technicolor dye transfer process, including Zhang Yimou's \"Ju Dou\" (1990) and even one American film, \"Space Avenger\" (1989), directed by Richard W. Haines. The Beijing line was shut down in 1993 for a number of reasons, including inferior processing.\n\nIn 1997, Technicolor reintroduced the dye transfer process to general film printing. A refined version of the printing process of the 1960s and 1970s, it was used on a limited basis in the restorations of films such as \"The Wizard of Oz\", \"Gone With the Wind\", \"Rear Window\", \"Funny Girl\", and \"Apocalypse Now Redux\".\n\nAfter its reintroduction, the dye transfer process was used in several big-budget, modern Hollywood productions. These included \"Bulworth\", \"The Thin Red Line\", \"Godzilla\", \"Toy Story 2\", and \"Pearl Harbor\".\n\nThe dye-transfer process was discontinued by Technicolor in 2002 after the company was purchased by Thomson.\n\nBy the late 1990s, the dye transfer process still had its advantages in the film archival community. Because the dye transfer process used stable acid dyes, Technicolor prints are considered of archival quality. A Technicolor print from the dye transfer era will retain its original colors virtually unchanged for decades with proper storage, whereas prints printed on Eastmancolor stocks produced prior to 1983 may suffer color fading after exposure to ultraviolet light and hot, humid conditions as a result of less stable photochemical dyes. Fading on some prints is so rapid that in some cases, after as little as five to ten years, the colors of the print have faded to a brownish red.\n\nFurthermore, three-strip camera negatives are all on silver-based black-and-white stock, which have stayed unaltered over the course of time with proper handling. This has become of importance in recent years with the large market for films transferred to video formats for home viewing. The best color quality control for video transfer by far is achieved by optically printing from Technicolor negatives, or by recombining the three-strip black and white negatives through digital means and printing, onto low-contrast stock. Director George Lucas had a three-strip archival negative, and one or more imbibition prints made of \"Star Wars\"; this \"protection\" copy was consulted for color values in putting together the 1997 Special Edition of \"Star Wars\".\n\nOne problem that has resulted from Technicolor negatives is the rate of shrinkage from one strip to another. Because three-strip negatives are shot on three rolls, they are subject to different rates of shrinkage depending on storage conditions. Today, digital technology allows for a precise re-alignment of the negatives by resizing shrunken negatives digitally to correspond with the other negatives. The G, or Green, record is usually taken as the reference as it is the record with the highest resolution. It is also a record with the correct \"wind\" (emulsion position with respect to the camera's lens). Shrinkage and re-alignment (resizing) are non-issues with Successive Exposure (single-roll RGB) Technicolor camera negatives. This issue could have been eliminated, for three-strip titles, had the preservation elements (fine-grain positives) been Successive Exposure, but this would have required the preservation elements to be 3,000 feet or 6,000 feet whereas three-strip composited camera and preservation elements are 1,000 feet or 2,000 feet (however, three records of that length are needed).\n\nOne issue that modern reproduction has had to contend with is that the contrast of the three film strips is not the same. This gives the effect on Technicolor prints that (for example) fades cause the color balance of the image to change as the image is faded. Transfer to digital media has attempted to correct the differing color balances and is largely successful. However, a few odd artifacts remain such that saturated parts of the image may show a false color. Where the image of a flame is included in shot, it will rarely be of the expected orange/yellow color, often being depicted as green. \n\nThe Technicolor company remained a highly successful film processing firm and later became involved in video and audio duplication (CD, VHS and DVD manufacturing) and digital video processes. MacAndrews & Forbes acquired Technicolor, Inc. in 1982 for $100 million, then sold it in 1988 to the British firm Carlton Communications PLC for $780 million. Technicolor, Inc. acquired the film processing company Consolidated Film Industries in 2000. Since 2001, Technicolor has been part of the French-headquartered electronics and media conglomerate Thomson. The name of Thomson group was changed to “Technicolor SA” , re-branding the entire company after its American film technology subsidiary.\n\nThe visual aesthetic of dye transfer Technicolor continues to be used in Hollywood, usually in films set in the mid-20th century. Parts of \"The Aviator\" (2004), the biopic of Howard Hughes, were digitally manipulated to imitate color processes that were available during the periods each scene takes place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5721479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5721479", "title": "Tsenacommacah", "text": "Tsenacommacah\n\nTsenacommacah (pronounced in English; \"densely inhabited land\"; also written Tscenocomoco, Tsenacomoco, Tenakomakah, Attanoughkomouck, and Attan-Akamik) is the name given by the Powhatan people to their native homeland, the area encompassing all of Tidewater Virginia and parts of the Eastern Shore. More precisely, its boundaries spanned by from near the south side of the mouth of the James River all the way north to the south end of the Potomac River and from the Eastern Shore west to about the Fall Line of the rivers.\n\nThe Powhatan were part of a powerful Chiefdom of Virginia Indian tribes, also known as the Powhatan Confederacy, that spoke an Algonquian language. By the time the English arrived in Tsenacommacah, the Powhatan Indian Chiefdom included over 30 tribes. Each tribe had its own name and chief (\"werowance\"/\"weroance\" or \"weroansqua\" if female), and the chiefdom as a whole was ruled by a paramount chief (\"mamanatowick\") named Wahunsenacawh, or more popularly Chief Powhatan.\n\nThe Eastern Shore Indians, the \"Accawmacke\", who numbered around 2000, paid nominal tribute to the Powhatan, but enjoyed a large degree of semi-autonomy under their own paramount chief, Debedeavon (\"the Laughing King\").\n\nBy early 1609, relations had begun to sour between the Powhatan and the English. As a result Powhatan moved his primary residence from Werowocomoco, off the York River, to Orapax (or Orapakes), located in a swamp at the head of the Chickahominy River. By 1614 Powhatan had again moved his primary residence, this time further northwest to a location on the north bank of the Pamunkey River known as Matchut. Matchut was not far from where Powhatan's brother Opechancanough ruled at Youghtanund.\nPowhatan died in 1618, after which the chiefdom was ultimately passed to his younger brother Opechancanough, who led the Indian Massacre of 1622 as well as a second attack in 1644. Both attacks provoked English retaliations. A peace treaty, signed in 1646, brought an end to the conflicts between the Powhatan and the English. The treaty was signed by Opechancanough's successor Necotowance – Opechancanough himself was captured by the English and killed by an English guard in 1646.\n\nAs part of the treaty of 1646, the size of Tsenacommacah was reduced. The boundaries specified in the treaty separated Virginia Indian lands from those that were considered English-owned, and restricted crossings to those on official business. Badges were required for all visitors. The treaty also established the payment of a yearly tribute to the English, as well as delineating a number of tribal land reservations. \n\nAmong the surviving tribes of the now-dissolved Confederacy, the Appomattocs, Nansemonds and Weyanokes retreated to the south, becoming independent of Necotowance, as did the Powhites or Powhatan proper. The Pamunkey, Mattaponi, Chickahominy, Rappahannock, Kiskiack, Wiccocomico, Patawomeck, Morattico, Nanzatico, Sekakawon, and Onawmanient, occupying the peninsulas north of the York, were cut off from the southern tribes by the English enclave.\n\nThe Virginia Colony long respected its southern boundary established by this treaty, refusing to recognize settlements beyond it as late as 1705. However, the ban on settling north of the York river was lifted September 1, 1649, and a wave of new immigrants quickly flooded the northern tribes, leaving them scattered and isolated on ever-shrinking patches of land. That year, the Pamunkey \"weroance\", Totopotomoi, received for his tribe along both sides of the upper Pamunkey River, and the Kiskiack \"weroance\", Ossakican was reserved on the Piankatank. In 1650, another treaty reserved land for the creation of Indian towns, where of land was granted per warrior. These lands became smaller and smaller in following years. Tracts were surveyed for the remaining tribes in the following decades, but these quickly shrank as they were either sold off or in some cases actually seized outright.\n\nFollowing Bacon's Rebellion, The Treaty of Middle Plantation was signed by many Virginia Indian leaders in 1677, limiting Tsenocommacah even further. The treaty set up six reservations, reinforced the annual tribute payment to the English, and more fully acknowledged the Virginia tribes' subjection to the King of England.\n\nAll of the reservations, save two, were lost over the next two centuries. Even so, many of the remaining tribes still live in or near their ancestral lands. The Pamunkey and Mattaponi are the only tribes that still maintain their reservations from the 17th century. As such, these two tribes still make their yearly tribute payments, of fish and game, as stipulated by the 1646 and 1677 treaties. As far as anyone knows, the tribes have not missed a \"payment\" in 331 years. Every year, on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving, they go to the Virginia Governor's house in Richmond to make their yearly payment. A ceremony is held in which a deer, turkey, or fish and some pottery are presented to the governor. Before the ceremony a brunch is held where the tribes are able to converse with the governor. It has not always been easy for the Mattaponi and the Pamunkey to get the necessary items for their yearly payment, but they have made it a point of honor to uphold their end of the bargain.\n\n"}
{"id": "189455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189455", "title": "Ulm", "text": "Ulm\n\nUlm () is a city in the federal German state of Baden-Württemberg, situated on the River Danube. The city, whose population is estimated at almost 120,000 (2015), forms an urban district of its own () and is the administrative seat of the Alb-Donau district. Founded around 850, Ulm is rich in history and traditions as a former free imperial city (). Today, it is an economic centre due to its varied industries, and it is the seat of the University of Ulm. Internationally, Ulm is primarily known for having the church with the tallest steeple in the world (), the Gothic minster (Ulm Minster, German: Ulmer Münster), and as the birthplace of Albert Einstein.\n\nUlm lies at the point where the rivers Blau and Iller join the Danube, at an altitude of above sea level. Most parts of the city, including the old town, are situated on the left bank of the Danube; only the districts of Wiblingen, Gögglingen, Donaustetten and Unterweiler lie on the right bank. Across from the old town, on the other side of the river, lies the twin city of Neu-Ulm in the state of Bavaria, smaller than Ulm and, until 1810, a part of it (population c. 50,000).\n\nExcept for the Danube in the south, the city is surrounded by forests and hills which rise to altitudes of over , some of them part of the Swabian Alb. South of the Danube, plains and hills finally end in the northern edge of the Alps, which are approximately from Ulm and are visible from the city on clear days.\n\nThe city of Ulm is situated in the northern part of the North Alpine Foreland basin, where the basin reaches the Swabian Alb. The Turritellenplatte of Ermingen (\"Erminger Turritellenplatte\") is a famous palaeontological site of Burdigalian age.\n\nOn the right (south-eastern) side of Danube and Iller there is the Bavarian district town Neu-Ulm. On the left (north-western) side Ulm is almost completely surrounded by the Alb-Danube district. The neighboring communes of Baden-Württemberg are the following: Illerkirchberg, Staig, Hüttisheim, Erbach (Donau), Blaubeuren, Blaustein, Dornstadt, Beimerstetten and Langenau as well as the eastern neighboring community Elchingen.\n\nThe city is divided into 18 districts (): Ulm-Mitte, Böfingen, Donaustetten, Donautal, Eggingen, Einsingen, Ermingen, Eselsberg, Gögglingen, Grimmelfingen, Jungingen, Lehr, Mähringen, Oststadt, Söflingen (with Harthausen), Unterweiler, Weststadt, and Wiblingen.\n\nNine districts that were integrated during the latest municipality reform in the 1970s (Eggingen, Einsingen, Ermingen, Gögglingen-Donaustetten, Jungingen, Lehr, Mähringen und Unterweiler). They have own local councils which acquire an important consulting position to the whole city council concerning issues that are related to the prevailing districts. But at the end, final decisions can only be made by the city council of the entire city of Ulm.\n\nThe oldest traceable settlement of the Ulm area began in the early Neolithic period, around 5000 BC. Settlements of this time have been identified at the villages of Eggingen and Lehr, today districts of the city. In the city area of Ulm proper, the oldest find dates from the late Neolithic period. The earliest written mention of Ulm is dated 22 July 854 AD, when King Louis the German signed a document in the King's palace of \"Hulma\" in the Duchy of Swabia. The city was declared an Imperial City () by Friedrich Barbarossa in 1181.\n\nAt first, Ulm's significance was due to the privilege of a \"Königspfalz\", a place of accommodation for the medieval German kings and emperors on their frequent travels. Later, Ulm became a city of traders and craftsmen. One of the most important legal documents of the city, an agreement between the Ulm patricians and the trade guilds (), dates from 1397. This document, considered an early city constitution, and the beginning of the construction of an enormous church (Ulm Minster, 1377), financed by the inhabitants of Ulm themselves rather than by the church, demonstrate the assertiveness of Ulm's medieval citizens. Ulm blossomed during the 15th and 16th centuries, mostly due to the export of high-quality textiles. The city was situated at the crossroads of important trade routes extending to Italy. These centuries, during which many important buildings were erected, also represented the zenith of art in Ulm, especially for painters and sculptors like Hans Multscher and Jörg Syrlin the Elder. During the Reformation, Ulm became Protestant (1530). With the establishment of new trade routes following the discovery of the New World (16th century) and the outbreak and consequences of the Thirty Years' War (1618–48), the city began to decline gradually. Around 1700, it was alternately invaded several times by French and Bavarian soldiers.\nIn the wars following the French Revolution, the city was alternately occupied by French and Austrian forces, with the former ones destroying the city fortifications. In 1803, it lost the status of Imperial City and was absorbed into Bavaria. During the campaign of 1805, Napoleon managed to trap the invading Austrian army of General Mack and forced it to surrender in the Battle of Ulm. In 1810, Ulm was incorporated into the Kingdom of Württemberg and lost its districts on the other bank of the Danube, which came to be known as Neu-Ulm (New Ulm).\n\nIn the mid-19th century, the city was designated a fortress of the German Confederation with huge military construction works directed primarily against the threat of a French invasion. The city became an important centre of industrialisation in southern Germany in the second half of the 19th century, its built-up area now being extended beyond the medieval walls. The construction of the huge minster, which had been interrupted in the 16th century for economic reasons, was resumed and eventually finished (1844–91) in a wave of German national enthusiasm for the Middle Ages.\n\nFrom 1933 to 1935, a concentration camp primarily for political opponents of the regime was established on the Kuhberg, one of the hills surrounding Ulm. The Jews of Ulm, around 500 people, were first discriminated against and later persecuted; their synagogue was torn down after Kristallnacht in November 1938. The sole RAF strategic bombing during World War II against Ulm occurred on December 17, 1944, against the two large lorry factories of Magirus-Deutz and Kässbohrer, as well as other industries, barracks, and depots in Ulm. The Gallwitz Barracks and several military hospitals were among 14 Wehrmacht establishments destroyed. The raid killed 707 Ulm inhabitants and left 25,000 homeless and after all the bombings, over 80% of the medieval city centre lay in ruins.\n\nMost of the city was rebuilt in the plain and simple style of the 1950s and 1960s, but some of the historic landmark buildings have been restored. Due to its almost complete destruction in 1944, the Hirschstraße part of the city primarily consists of modern architecture. Ulm experienced substantial growth in the decades following World War II, with the establishment of large new housing projects and new industrial zones. In 1967, Ulm University was founded, which proved to be of great importance for the development of the city. Particularly since the 1980s, the transition from classical industry towards the high-tech sector has accelerated, with, for example, the establishment of research centres of companies like Daimler, Siemens and Nokia and a number of small applied research institutes near the university campus. The city today is still growing, forming a twin city of 170,000 inhabitants together with its neighbouring Bavarian city of Neu-Ulm, and seems to benefit from its central position between the cities of Stuttgart and Munich and thus between the cultural and economic hubs of southern Germany.\n\nThe city has very old trading traditions dating from medieval times and a long history of industrialisation, beginning with the establishment of a railway station in 1850. The most important sector is still classical industry (machinery, especially motor vehicles; electronics; pharmaceuticals). The establishment of the University of Ulm in 1967, which focuses on biomedicine, the sciences, and engineering, helped support a transition to high-tech industry, especially after the crisis of classical industries in the 1980s. \n\nCompanies with headquarters in Ulm include:\n\nCompanies with important sites in Ulm include:\n\nIn 2007 the City of Ulm was awarded the European Energy Award for its remarkable local energy management and its efforts to combat climate change. Examples of these efforts are a biomass power plant operated by the \"Fernwärme Ulm GmbH\" (10 MW electrical output), and the world's biggest passive house office building, the so-called \"Energon\", located in the \"Science City\" near the university campus. Moreover, the city of Ulm boasts the second largest solar power production in Germany. For all new buildings, a strict energy standard (German KFW40 standard) has been mandatory since April 2008. Ulm Minster has been fully powered by renewables since January 2008. Until the end of 2011 as a European pilot project a self-sustaining data-centre will be constructed in the west-city of Ulm. There is a solar-powered ferry that crosses the Danube 7 days a week in summer. The \"Bündnis 100% Erneuerbare Energien\" was founded in February 2010 with the aim of bringing together the people and organisations seeking to promote the transition to 100% renewable energy in Ulm and Neu-Ulm by 2030.\n\nUlm is situated at the crossroads of the A8 motorway (connecting the principal cities of southern Germany, Stuttgart and Munich), and the A7 motorway (one of the motorways running from northern to southern Europe).\n\nThe city's railway station is served, among other lines, by one of the European train routes (Paris – Strasbourg – Stuttgart – Ulm – Munich – Vienna – Budapest). Direct connections to Berlin are also available.\n\nUlm's public transport system is based on several bus lines and a tram line. Construction of a second tram line started in 2015. Several streets in the old town are for the use of pedestrians and cyclists only. Ulm was the first area to be served by the Daimler AG's Car2Go carsharing service in 2008. However, the service in Ulm was discontinued at the end of 2014.\n\nThe University of Ulm was founded in 1967 and focuses on the sciences, medicine, engineering, and mathematics / economics. With about 10,000 students, it is one of the smaller universities in Germany.\n\nUlm is also the seat of the city's University of Applied Sciences (), founded in 1960 as a public school of engineering. The school also houses numerous students from around the world as part of an international study abroad programme.\n\nIn 1953, Inge Aicher-Scholl, Otl Aicher and Max Bill founded the Ulm School of Design (German: Hochschule für Gestaltung - HfG Ulm), a design school in the tradition of the Bauhaus, which was, however, closed in 1968.\n\nUlm's public library features over 480,000 print media. The city has a public theatre with drama, opera and ballet, several small theatres, and a professional philharmonic orchestra.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUlm is a member city of the Eurotowns network.\n\nUlm is officially not twinned. But there are relations with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "327806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327806", "title": "Veteran", "text": "Veteran\n\nA veteran (from Latin \"vetus\", meaning \"old\") is a person who has had long service or experience in a particular occupation or field. A military veteran is a person who has served and is no longer serving in the armed forces. Those veterans that have had direct exposure to acts of military conflict may also be referred to as war veterans (although not all military conflicts, or areas in which armed combat takes place, are necessarily referred to as wars). A combat veteran is a person who has fought in combat during a war or a skirmish against a declared enemy and may still be serving in the military. \n\nMilitary veterans often receive special treatment in their respective countries due to the sacrifices they made during wars. Different countries handle this differently: some openly support veterans through government programs, while others ignore them. Veterans are also subject to illnesses directly related to their military service such as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). War veterans are generally treated with great respect and honour for their contribution to the world and country by their own nationals. Conversely there are often negative feelings towards the veterans of foreign nations held long after the war is over; for example towards the German Nazi soldiers, yet they are no less veterans of war than those of the winning side. There are exceptions. Veterans of unpopular or lost conflicts may be discriminated against. Veterans of short or small conflicts are often forgotten when the country fought bigger conflicts. In some countries with strong anti-military traditions (e.g., Germany after 1945), veterans are neither honoured in any special way by the general public, nor have their dedicated Veterans Day, although events are sometimes orchestrated by minority groups.\n\nMany countries have longstanding traditions, ceremonies, and holidays to honour their veterans. In the UK, \"Remembrance Day\" is held on November the 11th and is focused mostly on the veterans who died in service to the monarch and country. A red or white poppy is worn on the lapel (for remembrance or for peace, respectively) in the weeks up to the date, and wreaths and flowers laid at memorials to the dead.\n\nIn Russia, a tradition was established after World War II where newly married couples would on their wedding day visit a military cemetery. In France, for instance, those wounded in war are given the first claim on any seat on public transit. Most countries have a holiday such as Veterans Day to honour their veterans, along with the war dead.\n\nIn Zimbabwe, the term veteran is used for political purpose and may not actually refer to someone that participated in a war, but still feels entitled to some benefit because of association with a cause for which there had been an actual war.\n\nBritain, with its historic distrust of standing armies, did little for its veterans before the 19th century. It did set up two small hospitals for them in the 1680s. In London and other cities the streets teemed with disabled or disfigured veterans begging for alms.\n\nThe First World War focused national attention on veterans, especially those who had been partly or wholly disabled. The King's National Roll Scheme (KNRS) was an employment program for disabled veterans of the First World War. Kowalsky says it was practical, innovative, and ahead of its time and was the most important piece of legislation enacted for disabled veterans in interwar Britain. In addition to direct aid, it stimulated a national discussion regarding the need for employment programs for disabled veterans and the responsibility of the state, setting up a future demand for more benefits.\n\nIn the 21st century, Britain has one of the highest densities of veterans in a major country, with 13 million in 2000, or 219 per 1,000 population.\n\nSome veterans from the Belgian commitment of the Congolese to WWII live in communities throughout the Congo. Though they received compensation from the government during the rule of the dictator Mobutu Sese Seko, after his overthrow they no longer receive pensions.\n\nThe most common usage is for former armed services personnel. A veteran is one who has served in the armed forces, especially one who has served in combat. The National Guard and Reserve is included. It is especially applied to those who served for an entire career, usually of 20 years or more, but may be applied for someone who has only served one tour of duty. A common misconception is that only those who have served in combat or those who have retired from active duty can be called military veterans. \n\nIn 1990, 40% of young Americans had a veteran for a parent; this decreased to 16% in 2014. In 2016, of the veterans who were born outside of the United States, Mexican and Filipino Americans made up the two largest populations, with 3% of all veterans having been born outside of the United States. As of 2017 there are some 21 million American veterans. \n\nPresident Abraham Lincoln, in his second inaugural address in 1865 towards the end of the American Civil War, famously called for good treatment of veterans: \"[T]o care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan\". The American Civil War produced veterans' organizations, such as the Grand Army of the Republic and United Confederate Veterans. The treatment of veterans changed after the First World War. In the years following, discontented veterans became a source of instability. They could quickly organize, had links to the army and often had arms themselves. The Bonus Army of unemployed veterans was one of the most important protest movements of the Great Depression, marching on Washington, D.C. to get a claimed bonus now that Congress had promised them decades in the future.\n\nEach state of the United States sets specific criteria for state-specific veterans' benefits. For federal medical benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals, prior to 7 September 1980 the veteran must have served at least 180 days of active duty, after the above-mentioned date the veteran must have served at least 24 months. However, if the veteran was medically discharged and receives a VA service-connected disability stipend, the time limits are not applicable.\n\nAfter the Second World War, in part due to the experience of the First World War, most of the participating states set up elaborate veterans' administrations. Within the United States, it was veterans groups, like the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars organization, that pushed for and got the G.I. Bill enacted. These gave veterans access to free or subsidized education and health care. The newly educated GIs created a significant economic impact, and with the aid of VA loans were able to buy housing and establish themselves as part of a growing American middle class. The explosion of the suburbs created sufficient housing for veterans and their families.\n\nMany veterans of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom have had to face challenges unique to warfare in the 21st century. One significant difference between OEF and OIF and previous wars is a greater dependence on reservists and repeat deployments. Up to 80% of troops deployed at the beginning of OEF were part of the National Guard and Reserve and about 40% of currently serving military members have been deployed more than once. This has meant that many deployed troops, not being as “ steeped in military culture ” have had more difficult transitions into military life, and for many the increased redeployment rate has meant more transitions, more uncertainty, longer terms, and shorter dwell times, all of which contribute to greater stress.\n\nDue to medical advances, warfare in the 21st century tends to yield more survivors with severe injuries which soldiers in previous wars would have died from. This means that, though fewer service members die, more return from war with injuries more serious, and in turn more emotionally devastating, than ever before. Among these injuries is the increasingly common traumatic brain injury, or TBI, the effects of which can range from a mild concussion to amnesia and serious neurological damage.\n\nWomen have served in the United States military for over two hundred years. Some female veterans perceive themselves as discriminated against by their male counterparts and, as such, women who have served in the armed forces have sometimes been known as \"the invisible veterans\". Women were not fully recognized as veterans until after WWII, and prior to this they were not eligible for VA benefits. The current percentage of U.S. Veterans who are women is more than 8 percent. Women make up nearly 11.6 percent of OEF/OIF/OND Veterans. A tri-state (Washington, Idaho, Oregon) women veterans conference in Pendleton, Oregon, in April 2008, attracted 362 women veterans, according to the \"East Oregonian\" newspaper.\n\nOn August 5, 2011, Erica Borggren was appointed Director of the Illinois Department of Veterans Affairs and has been \"creating a new Women Veterans Program to help address the issue that women veterans often do not self-identify as veterans and do not take advantage of veterans’ benefits to the same extent as their male peers.\" She gathered in a webcast panel moderated by Stacey Baca with Dr. Rebecca J. Hannagan and Kimberly Mitchell at the Pritzker Military Library on January 24, 2013, to discuss important issues facing female veterans in today's military.\n\nAfrican Americans have participated in every war fought by or within the United States. Black veterans from World War I experienced racial persecution on returning to the U.S. from overseas, particularly in Southern cities. \nBlack veterans from World War II continued to be denied equality at home despite President Harry S. Truman's desegregation of the military after World War II. Black veterans went on to play a central role in the civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s. The National Association for Black Veterans is an organization that provides advocacy and support for African American and other minority veterans.\n\nThe effect of active military service can be profound and lasting, and some veterans have found it difficult to adjust to normal life again. Figures from 2009 showed that twice as many veterans were in prison than there were British troops currently in Afghanistan. Homelessness, street-sleeping and relationship breakdown are also commonly reported. Research done by the UK homelessness charity CRISIS (1994) and the Ex-Services Action Group (1997) both found that a quarter of homeless people had previously served in the armed forces. The Times newspaper reported on 25 September 2009 that in England and Wales the number of \"military veterans in jail has more than doubled in six years\". Another Times article of the same date quoted the veterans mental health charity Combat Stress reporting a 53% increase in referrals from doctors.\n\nAn article in the London Metro on 28 January 2010 was titled \"Veterans prone to suicide\" and cited a report by the Mental Health Foundation which said that not enough was being done to care for the Afghanistan war veterans, and many \"plunged into alcohol problems, crime and suicide\" upon their return. Indeed, in the U.S., the suicide rate among veterans is 300% the national average. They account for 30% of the suicides in the US annually. Support services were found to be patchy from area to area.\n\nPosttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is a condition that affects a significant number of veterans. Studies involving veterans with combat-related PTSD indicate that between 4-17% of United States veterans have been diagnosed with PTSD. There United Kingdom counterparts however, have significantly lower number of just 3-6%.\n\nNew treatment programs are emerging to assist veterans suffering from post-combat mental health problems such as depression and PTSD. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), is becoming an important method for the treatment of mental health issues among veterans, and is currently considered the standard of care for depression and PTSD by the United States Department of Defense. CBT is a psychotherapeutic approach that aims to change the patterns of thinking or behavior that responsible for patient’s negative emotions and in doing so change the way they feel. It has been proven to be an effective treatment for PTSD among war veterans. Recently, online programs that pair CBT with therapist interaction have also proven effective in treating mental health problems among veterans. Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) is also an effective and noninvasive, drug-free treatment for PTSD, although it has not been tested against specific military traumatic exposure for efficacy.\n\nVeterans under the age of 25 are at higher risk for PTSD than veterans older than 25. Younger veterans with severe PTSD are at higher risk for metabolic syndrome and suicide.\n\nMusic therapy provides veterans with a way to express themselves, escape from anxiety, and helps them cope with their PTSD. In Marty Steiner’s “Music and Science Meet…Music Therapy”, Steiner explains “Modern music therapy became a norm in the Veteran's Administration hospitals during and after both World Wars. In its most basic form the playing of recordings on the Victrola in WW I, hospitals had measurable positive effects on the wounded and shell-shocked patients. This began the use of a somewhat primitive music therapy in all American military hospitals.”\n\nVeterans are at higher risk than the general population for several disorders, especially younger veterans (those younger than 25). Younger veterans are at increased risk for drug use disorders, alcohol abuse disorders, and mental illnesses in general.\n\nNecessity has resulted in a number of sources of help being made available for veterans. Many of these are independent, charitable organisations, and in some countries the aftercare and rehabilitation services provided by Governments have been inadequate. This may be because they do not wish to give attention to the negative effects of military service and the difficulties of readjustment to civilian life for it may have an adverse impact upon recruitment for their armed forces. Nevertheless, help is available and veterans should feel able to make contact and ask for assistance or advice to the broad network of organizations, and to appropriate legislators, without feeling that this is a weakness. Military service can be a profoundly unnatural experience and it is likely that some help may be needed in debriefing and rehabilitation into the community, whether it be medical, psychological, practical or financial. There were an estimated 57849 homeless veterans estimated in the United States during January 2013; or 12 percent of all homeless adults. Just under 8 percent of homeless U.S. veterans are female.\n\n\n\n\nA list of organisations offering help or advice follows.\n\n"}
{"id": "303710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303710", "title": "Victor Duruy", "text": "Victor Duruy\n\nJean Victor Duruy (11 September 1811 – 25 November 1894) was a French historian and statesman.\n\nDuruy was born in Paris, the son of a factory worker, and at first intended for his father's trade. Having passed brilliantly through the École Normale Supérieure, where he studied under Jules Michelet, he accompanied Michelet as secretary in his travels through France, supplying for him at the École Normale in 1836, when only twenty-four. Ill-health forced him to resign, and poverty caused him to undertake an extensive series of school textbooks which made him well known.\n\nHe devoted himself to secondary school education, holding his chair in the College Henri IV at Paris for over a quarter of a century. Already known as a historian by his \"Histoire des Romains et des peuples soumis à leur domination\" (7 vols, 1843–1844), he was chosen by Napoleon III to assist him in his biography of Julius Caesar, and his abilities being thus brought under the emperor's notice, he was in 1863 appointed minister of education. In this position he worked incessantly, attempting broad and liberal reforms. On 18 March 1864, Duruy visited the Christian Brothers' boarding school in Passy (the \"Pensionnat des Frères des écoles chrétiennes à Passy\") and complimented the Brothers \"in the most flattering terms upon the appearance and tendency of the pensionnat\". Another ministerial visit took place on 12 May of the same year,\ncaused by the resistance to the projet de loi for special instruction which was manifested in the parliamentary commission which had been appointed to examine the subject. To overcome this opposition M. Duruy invited the members of the commission to accompany him to Passy, in order to demonstrate to them, as he expressed it, the successful realization of his project by the Christian Brothers.\n\nIronically, despite open domestic opposition to his views in education, he was instrumental in the reformation of Galatasaray High School in 1868, in strict concordance with his secular views, as the first Western-style state higher education institution in the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAmong his measures were the reorganization of higher education (\"enseignement spécial\"), the foundation of the \"conférences publiques\", which became universal throughout France, and of a course of secondary education for girls by lay teachers. He introduced modern history and modern languages into the curriculum both of the \"lycées\" and of the colleges. He greatly improved the state of primary education in France, and proposed to make it compulsory and free of charge, but failed to obtain the emperor's support for this move. In the new cabinet that followed the elections of 1869, Duruy was replaced by Louis Olivier Bourbeau, and was made a senator. After the fall of the Empire he took no part in politics, except for an unsuccessful candidacy for the senate in 1876. From 1881 to 1886 he served as a member of the \"Conseil Supérieur de l'Instruction Publique\". In 1884 he was elected to the \"Académie française\" in succession to François Mignet.\n\nAs an historian Duruy aimed in his earlier works at a graphic and picturesque narrative which should make his subject popular. His fame, however, rests mainly on the revised edition of his Roman history, which appeared in a greatly enlarged form in 5 vols. under the title of \"Histoire des Romains depuis les temps les plus reculés jusqu'à la mort de Théodose\" (1879–1885), an illustrated edition was published from 1879 to 1885 (English translation by WJ Clarke, in 6 vols., 1883–1886). His \"Histoire des Grecs\", similarly illustrated, appeared in 3 volumes from 1886 to 1891 (English translation in 4 volumes, 1892). He was the editor, from its commencement in 1846, of the \"Histoire universelle, publiée par une société de professeurs et de savants\", for which he himself wrote a \"Histoire sainte d'après la Bible,\" \"Histoire grecque,\" \"Histoire romaine,\" \"Histoire du moyen âge,\" \"Histoire des temps modernes,\" and \"Abrégé de l'histoire de France.\"\n\nHis other works include \"Atlas historique de la France accompagné d'un volume de texte\" (1849); \"Histoire de France de 1453 à 1815\" (1856), of which an expanded and illustrated edition appeared as \"Histoire de France depuis l'invasion des Barbares dans la Gaule romaine jusqu'à nos jours\" (1892); \"Histoire populaire de la France\" (1862–1863); \"Histoire populaire contemporaine de la France\" (1864–1866); \"Causeries de voyage: de Paris à Vienne\" (1864); and \"Introduction générale à l'histoire de France\" (1865).\n\nA memoir by Ernest Lavisse appeared in 1895 under the title of \"Un Ministre: Victor Duruy\". See also the notice by Jules Simon (1895), and \"Portraits et souvenirs\" by Gabriel Monod (1897).\n\n"}
{"id": "32774136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32774136", "title": "Way of the Patriarchs", "text": "Way of the Patriarchs\n\nWay of the Patriarchs  (  \"Derech haʾAvot\"  \"), is an ancient north south route traversing the land of Israel. The name is used by biblical scholars because of mentions in biblical narratives that it was frequently travelled by Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.\n\nIt is also called the Hill Road or the Ridge Route because it follows the watershed ridge line of the Samarian and Judaean Mountains. It runs from Megiddo and Hazor south to Beersheba by way of Shechem, Bethel, Jerusalem, Ephrath and Hebron. Unlike the Via Maris and the King's Highway which were international roads crossing the territories of many peoples, the Ridge Route was wholly within the territory of ancient Israel.\n\nIn modern times, the route roughly follows the original Highway 60 (without the more recent bypasses), passing through Afula, Jenin, Nablus, Ramallah, Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Halhul, Hebron and Dhahiriya.\n\nWe already find Abraham using this route. After he enters the land he goes to Shechem. Then via Beth El he ends up in Hebron and later in Beer-Sheva.\n\nWay stations were discovered along the route between Beersheba and Jerusalem from the time of the ancient Temple and later during the Hellenistic and Roman eras. Ritual baths (Mikvaot, Hebrew: מקוואות) served pilgrims during their journey.\n\nMilestones have been discovered along the route signalling that, even in Roman times, the route was used as a major road. The stones represent the distance to Jerusalem.\n\nThe Way of the Patriarchs can be seen in Beit Zechariah (today a small Arab village) where a battle took place between Yehuda Maccabee and the Greeks. It was there that Judah's brother, Elazar HaHorani, was killed after stabbing and killing one of the Greek elephants. This incident is commemorated by the name of the adjacent community, Elazar.\n\nThe biblical story of the Concubine of the Hill (Judges 19), tells of a small family caravan journeying on the ridge route from Bethlehem towards Jerusalem.\n\nAncient Jerusalem (today's Old City) was not sitiuated on the mountain watershed. Indeed, The Ridge Route did not pass directly through the ancient city but was situated just to the west, about a 20-minute walk from the city walls. The route from Bethel southwards would have passed through today's neighborhoods of Beit Hanina, Shuafat, French Hill, Givat HaMivtar and Kerem Avraham, crossing Jaffa Road at the center of modern down-town Jerusalem behind the HaMashbir Department Store building, and continuing along Shmuel HaNagid St. (peak height: Monastery of Ratisbon), King George St., Keren HaYesod St., and finally the Hebron Road to Bethlehem\n\nThe route connected to the Via Maris and the Kings Highway by way of several east-west roads:\n\nAn important connection was \"The Sunset Road\" ( \"Derech Mevo HaShemesh\") () leading from The King's Highway, crossing the Jordan River at the location of today's Adam Bridge (Jisr Damiat) and ascending through the Tirtza Valley (Wadi Al Fara) to Mount Gerizim and Shechem. Today's eastern leg of Route 57 roughly follows the ancient track.\n\nThe \"Red Ascent\" ( \"Ma'ale Adumim\") ( and ) formed a boundary of the tribe of Judah \"ascending from the Valley of Achor to Debir and turning north to Gilgal\". It takes its name from the red rock lining the ascent. Highway 1 between Jerusalem and the Jordan Valley follows the ancient route.\n\nTo the west of Shechem, the ancient \"Aphek Ascent\" from the Via Maris and the coastal plain passed through Aphek, Soco and today's Kfar Saba and Qalqilyah. Highway 55 duplicates the eastern part of this route.\n\n\"The Bethoron Ascent\" ( \"Ma'ale Beit Horon\") () from the coastal plain passes today's Ben Gurion Airport, then rose along an offshoot of the watershed ridge leading to today's Beit Hanina as it approached Jerusalem. Today's Route 443 follows the ancient road with minor deviations.\n\nThe ascent from Jaffa to Jerusalem through the Plain of Ayalon is now duplicated by Route 412, Highway 44 and Route 1.\n\nFurther south, Highway 35 roughly follows the path of the ancient \"Lachish Road\" from Gaza, Ashkelon and Ashdod through the Lachish region to Hebron.\n\n"}
{"id": "2278648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2278648", "title": "West Germanic gemination", "text": "West Germanic gemination\n\nWest Germanic gemination was a sound change that took place in all West Germanic languages around the 3rd or 4th century AD. It affected consonants directly followed by , which were generally lengthened or geminated in that position. Because of Sievers' law, only consonants immediately after a short vowel were affected by the process.\n\nWhen followed by , consonants were lengthened (doubled). The consonant , whether original or from earlier through rhotacization, was generally not affected; it occasionally shows gemination in Old High German, but inconsistently and this may be an analogical change. In contrast, the second element of the diphthongs \"iu\" and \"au\" was still underlyingly the consonant at this time, and therefore was lengthened as well.\n\nIn Proto-Germanic, only appeared at the beginning of a syllable, primarily as the onset of a variety of suffixes and endings. It alternated with its syllabic counterpart in accordance with a phonological rule known as Sievers' law. This law states that consonantal appeared after a \"light\" syllable: one that contained a short vowel followed by at most one consonant. The syllabic allomorph appeared after \"heavy\" syllables, which included syllables containing a long vowel, a diphthong, or ending in more than one consonant. As the gemination itself required the consonant to be directly followed by , it therefore affected only light syllables; heavy syllables were not changed. Compare, for example, the Germanic verbs \"*fūlijaną\" \"to defile\" and \"*fuljaną\" \"to fill, to make full\", which appear in Old English as \"fȳlan\" and \"fyllan\" respectively, and in Old High German as \"fūlen\" and \"fullen\"; the first verb shows no gemination, while the second does.\n\nIn the early history of most individual Germanic languages, syllabic was generally lost, while consonantal was retained. Earlier consonantal is also lost, however, after a consonant that underwent gemination. Thus, remains only after (Old English \"werian\" < Proto-Germanic \"*warjaną\"), while appears in all other cases, even those where Proto-Germanic had (such as \"*fuljaną\" above). It therefore appears that Sievers' law was still productive at this stage, and adapted to the new syllable length by changing the suffix from its consonantal to its syllabic variety.\n\nWest Germanic gemination also operated inconsistently on consonants followed by /l/ or /r/, e.g. Old English \"æppel\" \"apple\" < Proto-Germanic *aplaz. In some cases this led to doublets, e.g. West Saxon Old English \"tēar\" \"tear (of the eyes)\" < *tæher < Proto-Germanic *tahraz (without gemination) vs. Northumbrian Old English \"tæhher\" \"tear (of the eyes)\" (with gemination).\n\nSimilar changes occurred in the history of Old Norse, although with a more limited scope. The change applied only to the combinations and , which were lengthened to and . Other consonants were not affected. Contrary to the changes in West Germanic, the remained nonsyllabic after the change, and was therefore retained rather than lost like syllabic was in other Old Norse words.\n\nThis change particularly affected the infinitives of the first conjugation of weak verbs, which ended in *-(i)janą. It also affect the short-stemmed ja(n)- and jō(n)-stem nouns and adjectives. By historical times (c. 800-900 AD), all of the West Germanic languages except Old Saxon had lost medial syllabic , but not before any that it may have developed from had triggered i-Mutation. It also triggered palatalization of velar consonants in Old English and Old Frisian: and were geminated into palatal/postalveolar and , which then developed into geminate affricates and , spelled <cc> and <cg> in Old English.\n\nExamples:\n"}
{"id": "1453656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1453656", "title": "Western Jewish History Center", "text": "Western Jewish History Center\n\nThe Western Jewish History Center existed as part of the Judah L. Magnes Museum in Berkeley, California, from 1967 to 2010. It is now the Magnes Collection of Jewish Art and Life, administered as part of the Bancroft Library, University of California, Berkeley.\n\nPrimary source materials, consisting of more than 500 archival collections, include the papers and artifacts of Jewish families and individuals such as Judah L. Magnes; Adolph Sutro; David and Simon Lubin; Rosalie Meyer Stern; Julius Kahn; Florence Prag; Flora Arnstein; Ernest Bloch; Lloyd Dinkelspiel; Robert Levinson; Harris Weinstock; Ruth Carol Silver; Benjamin Swig; Rhoda and Richard Goldman; Alfred Henry Jacobs; members of the Haas, Koshland, Gerstle, Sloss, and Lilienthal families; and many others. Many of these take the form of family letters, diaries, photographs, and scrapbooks. \n\nIn addition, the archive also holds the papers and artifacts of important Jewish organizations such as San Francisco’s Emanu-El, Beth Israel-Judea, Sherith Israel, and Ohabai Shalome synagogues; Oakland's Congregation Sinai; Berkeley's Aquarian Minyan, and Lafayette's Isaiah. \n"}
{"id": "47248033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47248033", "title": "Wisdom (play)", "text": "Wisdom (play)\n\nUnlike other early morality plays, the character signifying man is split into nine different characters: Anima (the soul of man), the three faculties of the soul (Mind, Will and Understanding), and her five senses (known as ‘’the Wits”). Despite boasting a large cast list, the only six speaking roles in the play are Anima, Wisdom, Lucifer, Mind, Will and Understanding. Although the manuscript does not contain scene demarcations, the play can be divided into four sections, based upon a theological schematic of transgression and redemption: innocence, temptation, sinful life, and repentance. In the first part (Lines 1-324), Anima declares her love for Wisdom, the allegorical figure for Christ. The stage directions note that Anima is dressed in white, a symbol of her purity and position as the bride of Christ. The five Wits enter (dressed as virgins), and dance. Wisdom advises Anima and her three faculties (Will, Mind, Understanding) about how to live virtuously. In the second part (325-550), Lucifer tempts each of the three faculties – Will with lechery, Mind with pride, and Understanding with Perjury. In the third part (551-837), each faculty (having exchanged monkish, acetic robes for more fashionable and luxurious ones) devotes himself to sin and dances wildly with six followers. In the final part (838-1108), Wisdom returns to chastise the three faculties for falling into temptation. Anima, Will, Mind and Understanding repent, and the devils are chased from the stage. Recognizing that redemption requires more than her remorse, Anima asks for God’s mercy and grace. Wisdom grants both, before turning to the audience and ending the play with a sermon on avoiding sin and seeking grace.\n\nLike \"Mankind\", the Macro Manuscript version of \"Wisdom\" bears a Latin inscription by the monk Thomas Hyngman and the phrase (translated), “Oh book, if anyone shall perhaps ask to whom you belong, you will say, “I belong above everything to Hyngham, a monk.” Similarities between this hand and the text of the play lead scholars to believe that Hyngman transcribed the play. Close parallels between the Digby version and Macro version (including congruence of transcription errors).\n\nThe particularities of the playtext’s dialect suggest that \"Wisdom\" dates between 1460 and 1470 (Davidson argues for a range between 1460 and 1463). The language is an East Midland dialect, particularly common to Norfolk and Suffolk at the time of composition. Although the play conventionally goes by the name \"Wisdom\" today, neither manuscript notes a title. Former owner Thomas Sharp referred to the play by the title \" \"Mind, Will, and Understanding\" \" (after the three major characters). The now common moniker \" “Wisdom” \" is shorthand for \"A Morality of Wisdom, who is Christ\", pioneered in an 1882 publication of the plays by the philologist Frederick James Furnivall.\n\nMuch of the play’s theological material directly quotes the Vulgate Bible, including selections from Song of Songs, Psalms, Proverbs, Lamentations, Malachi, Ecclesiastes, Matthew, Romans, Ephesians, and Colossians. The characterization and costuming of Anima as the Bride of Christ come from passages of Henry Suso’s \"Horologium Sapientiae\". Lucifer’s arguments to the three faculties in the temptation scene are mutations of 14th century mystic Walter Hilton’s writings in his \"Epistle on mixed life\". At the play’s conclusion, sections of Anima’s repentance (particularly the language of Mind, Will and Understanding) come again from Hilton, in his major work \"The Scale of Perfection\".\n\nSeveral editions of \"Wisdom\" have been printed in the past century and a half, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "675358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675358", "title": "Yevgeny Tarle", "text": "Yevgeny Tarle\n\nYevgeny Viktorovich Tarle () ( – 6 January 1955) was a Soviet historian and academician of the Russian Academy of Sciences. He is known for his books about Napoleon's invasion of Russia and on the Crimean War, and many other works. Yevgeny Tarle was one of the founders of the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, Russia's diplomatic university.\n\nBorn as Grigory Tarle in Kiev, Russian Empire (modern-day Ukraine) into a prosperous Jewish family, he adopted the name of Yevgeny in 1893 following his baptism to Orthodox Christianity in Saint Sophia's Cathedral in order to marry Olga Grigorievna Mikhailova who belonged to Russian nobility. His father Viktor Grigorievich Tarle came from merchantry social estate and ran a shop in Kiev; he also translated books from Russian to German, including Fyodor Dostoyevsky's works. Yevgeny's mother Rozalia Arnoldovna Tarle was a housewife who dedicated herself to raising children. He had four siblings.\n\nIn 1892 Tarle completed gymnasium in Kherson and entered the Imperial Novorossiya University on Fyodor Uspensky's recommendation. In a year he moved to the University of Kiev to study history and philosophy. He was “the most distinguished student of Ivan Vasilevich Luchitski (1845-1918) of the University of Kiev.” After finishing his undergraduate education in 1896, he continued there as a graduate student in history.\n\nAs a student Tarle joined Marxist clubs and took an active part in the social democracy movement. He frequently visited Kievan factory workers as a lecturer and agitator. On May 1, 1900 he was arrested during a secret meeting in the middle of Anatoly Lunacharsky's speech. Tarle was sent to Kherson under police supervision and was forbidden to teach at Imperial universities and gymnasiums. On August he and his wife were allowed to move to Warsaw where they spent about a year. During that time he published many articles on history in various magazines. In 1901 he was also allowed a two-day visit to St. Petersburg in order to defend his master’s thesis on Thomas More. With the support of collegues he was finally given permission to work as a privatdozent at the University of St. Petersburg in 1903, a position he held up until 1917.\n\nOn February 1905 Tarle was arrested again for taking part in student protests and excluded from the university. However, after the October Manifesto decriminalized Marxists, he managed to return and continued his teaching career. To achieve his doctoral degree, he completed a two-volume dissertation about France. His interest in France increased in time: he completed another work on the economic history of France in 1916. From 1913 to 1918 he also served as a professor at the University of Tartu.\n\nFrom 1903 to 1914 Tarle traveled to France on a yearly basis. He had done research in the libraries and archives of Western Europe for all his early works, spending a lot of time at the Archives Nationales (France) in particular. He also contacted many prominent historians and even read a paper at the World Congress of Historical Studies held in London in 1913. The number of his works prior to the Revolution amounted to 211. His most important publications before the revolution were:\n\n\nRussian historical scholarship was deeply affected by the October Revolution. Despite this, Tarle remained at the University of St. Petersburg. From 1918 on he also headed the Petrograd department of the Central Archive of RSFSR. He soon became a professor at Moscow University and moved to Moscow. In 1921 he became a corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, becoming a full member in 1927. He was also active in the Russian Association of Scientific Institutes for Research in the Social Sciences (RANION). From 1922 to 1924 he published an \"Annually\" journal of general history along with Fyodor Uspensky. Tarle had achieved distinction as a specialist in modern history through his book \"Europe in the Age of Imperialism\".\n\nDuring 1928-1931 Tarle was frequently criticized by his colleagues in articles published in \"Istorik-Marksist\" and in \"Borba Klassov\". Between 1929 and 1931 a group of prominent historians were arrested by the State Political Directorate following the so-called (also known as The Case of Platonov). They were accused of hatching a plot to overthrow the Soviet government. In 1930 Tarle was arrested as well, accused of “being an “interventionist” and a “traitor” destined to be the foreign minister in a restored capitalist government\". On August 8, 1931 he was exiled to Almaty where he spent the next four years.\n\nAfter Tarle returned from exile in early 1934, he got back to his academic work in Leningrad and wrote two significant works on the Napoleonic period: a biography of Napoleon (\"Napoleon\") published in 1936 and \"Napoleon’s Invasion of Russia, 1812\" published in 1938. They were of great importance for estimating the change in Tarle’s interpretation of history. Tarle’s scholarly work during this period is the subject of much controversy. A. Roland, while praising Tarle for being a renowned authority on the Napoleonic era and having clearly understood the epoch of the Napoleonic wars, accuses him of having refracted the impact of the French revolution through the person of Napoleon.\n\nTarle’s description of the Napoleonic Empire in \"Napoleon\" (1936) had mostly been perceived as a study in the classic Marxist tradition. He had repeated the basic ideas of Mikhail Pokrovsky on the 1812 campaign and managed to interpret Napoleon from the viewpoint of the class-struggle. Like Pokrovsky, Tarle treated the Russian people’s patriotism and the talents of the Russian commanders as of lesser significance. However, according to Erickson, “Tarle’s interpretation differed from the more rigid economic interpretation of the Pokrovski school.” Unlike Pokrovski, Tarle brought individuals in the foreground. Napoleon was recognized as an influential historical figure.\n\nThe Battle of Borodino was not termed a victory in his work and the resistance to Napoleon was claimed as being “never a popular, national war.” He stated that “there was no mass participation by the peasantry in the guerilla bands and in their activities, and their part in the campaign was strictly limited.” According to Tarle, “… it is clear that if the Spanish guerilla warfare might justifiably be called a national war, it would be impossible to apply this term to any Russian movement in the war of 1812.” Tarle supported his interpretation by “denying that the peasants fought against the French and describing the burning of Smolensk and Moscow as systematic acts of the Russian army in retreat.” Naturally, Tarle also gave references to Lenin’s words on Napoleon in his book. Tarle’s biography of Napoleon, according to Black, was accepted as “the final word in the analysis of the 1812 campaign” when it was first published in 1936. However, his interpretation met severe criticism.\n\nThe same year brought a radical change in Soviet historiography: A critical approach toward the 1812 campaign was no longer permitted. At this point, Tarle was subjected to strong criticism among the society of historians all around the world. Émigré historians in the United States and historians in Europe wrote about Tarle soon after he completed a second book on the same theme in the history of the 1812 war. He prepared his new work in a comparatively shorter time and published it in 1938 under the title \"Napoleon’s Invasion of Russia, 1812\". This book was translated into English and published in Great Britain in 1942.\n\nIn his new book, Tarle mixed Marxist ideology and Russian nationalism. This time, the war of 1812 was not presented as unexceptional like other wars of Napoleon. The war with Russia was “more frankly imperialistic than any other of Napoleon’s wars; it was more directly dictated by the interests of the French upper-middle class.” The “principal theme of Tarle’s new work was his glorification of the heroism exhibited by the Russian people and the wise conduct of the campaign by the Russian commanders in general and by Kutuzov in particular.” In his work of 1938, strong emphasis was placed on Russian patriotism.\n\nTarle spent the Great Patriotic War in evacuation in Kazan. From 1941 to 1943 he worked as a professor at the historico-philological department of the Vladimir Ulyanov-Lenin Kazan State University. From 1942 on he was also a member of the Extraordinary State Commission that investigated Nazi war crimes.\n\nIn the post-war period, Tarle’s 1938 book was subjected to severe and intemperate criticism as Soviet historical writing was affected by the “theory of the counteroffensive”. According to Erickson, the two important trends conflicting with the views of Tarle were “the campaign against the ‘cosmopolitanism’ … and Stalin’s glorification of himself as a military genius.”\n\nIn 1951 \"Bolshevik\" published an article written by the director of the War Museum in Borodino Sergey Kozhukhov. Tarle was accused of having made use of foreign sources to the detriment of those of Russian origin, of having emphasized the passive character of Kutuzov’s maneuvers and of having claimed that Kutuzov was continuing the tactics of the Barclay de Tolly. In addition, Tarle was attacked for having failed to evaluate the Battle of Borodino as a clear-cut Russian victory, for having stated that Moscow was burned by the Russians themselves and for having assigned too much significance to the expanses of Russia, cold and hunger as factors in the defeat of the French army. According to Kozhukhov, Napoleon’s Invasion of Russia, 1812 showed the influence of bourgeois historiography. Tarle had not been sufficiently critical of “aristocratic-bourgeois” historians and had distorted the history of the “Fatherland War.”\n\nTarle replied to Kozhukhov’s criticism stating that he had already begun work on a new book on the Napoleonic period which would contain different interpretations than his earlier works. Tarle wrote “In light of the recent victory over the Nazis, it was no longer possible to view Russian history, especially military history, in the same way. Valuable new materials and “chiefly Stalin’s enormously significant and illuminating judgment, published in 1947”, had obliged Soviet historians to correct their errors and revise their interpretations of the war of 1812.”\n\nAmong Tarle’s works, another point which drew attention in the society of historians was his interpretation of Crimean War. Tarle began working on the history of the Crimean War in the late 1930s. He was given access to otherwise inaccessible Russian archives for his work. The first volume, published in 1941, was awarded the Stalin Prize. The second volume appeared in 1943. His general approach to the history of the Crimean War is a “mixture of criticism of the imperialistic character of the war and glorification of the Russian people.”\n\nTarle became one of the most influential figures in the historical front. His complete work was entitled “The City of Russian Glory: Sevastopol in 1854-1855”, and was published in 1954 by the publishing house of the USSR Defense Ministry. The book was based on the two-volume study about the Crimean war, written by Tarle earlier. He compares the siege of 1854-1855 to the defense of Sevastopol in 1941-1942 while attacking Washington, Hitlerism, and West Germany. The Crimean War was presented by Tarle to the public as a war launched by the western states. According to Tarle, in 1854-1855 the defenders of Sevastopol not only fought for the city, but also defended “the annexations, made by the Russian state and the Russian people in the times of Peter I and during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.”\n\nYevgeny Viktorovich Tarle died on 6 January 1955 in Moscow. He died before he was able to fulfill his intention of writing a new book on the war of 1812, though he came further into line with the theory of the “counteroffensive” in an article published in 1952. He was buried at the Novodevichy Cemetery. His wife Olga Tarle (1874—1955) died same year, just a month later and was buried near him. They lived together for over 60 years. Their only son Victor died shortly after his birth and was buried in Kiev.\n\nAccording to Hetnal, no other Soviet historian received so much attention as Tarle did both at home and abroad. Foreign historians have been fascinated by Tarle. The professor of Polish origin, Wiktor Weintraub wrote an article devoted to him. Italian historian Franco Venturi also wrote an interesting article about Tarle. They were followed by Edgar Hösch and others; Tarle’s writings had also been evaluated by Anatole Mazour. Another comprehensive work on Tarle was completed by Stanisław Wiśniewski, a Polish historian from Lublin. He stressed that Tarle’s writings were of unequal value. The wide range of Tarle’s interests, even within the Napoleonic field, the speed with which he worked, as well as the political situation in which he worked after 1936 and other reasons account for his shortcomings.\n\n\n\n"}
