{"id": "49319872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49319872", "title": "2013–2014 Zika virus outbreaks in Oceania", "text": "2013–2014 Zika virus outbreaks in Oceania\n\nIn October 2013, there was an outbreak of Zika fever in French Polynesia, the first outbreak of several Zika outbreaks across Oceania. With 8,723 cases reported, it was the largest outbreak of Zika fever before the outbreak in the Americas that began in April 2015. An earlier outbreak occurred on Yap Island in the Federated States of Micronesia in 2007, but it is thought that the 2013–2014 outbreak involved an independent introduction of the Zika virus from Southeast Asia. Investigators suggested that the outbreaks of mosquito-borne diseases in the Pacific from 2012 to 2014 were \"the early stages of a wave that will continue for several years\", particularly because of their vulnerability to infectious diseases stemming from isolation and immunologically naive populations.\n\nThe first Zika outbreak started in French Polynesia in October 2013, with cases reported in the Society, Marquesas and Tuamotu Islands on Tahiti, Mo'orea, Raiatea, Tahaa, Bora Bora, Nuku Hiva and Arutua. The outbreak ran concurrently with an outbreak of dengue fever.\n\nIn December 2013, an American traveler to Mo'orea was diagnosed with Zika virus infection in New York after an 11-day history of symptoms, becoming the first American tourist to be diagnosed with Zika. A Japanese tourist returning to Japan was also diagnosed with Zika virus infection by the National Institute of Infectious Diseases after visiting Bora Bora, becoming the first imported case of Zika fever in Japan.\n\nBy March 2014, the outbreak was declining in the majority of the islands, and by October the outbreak had abated. A total of 8,723 suspected cases of Zika virus infection were reported, as well as more than 30,000 estimated clinical visits and medical consultations due to concerns about Zika. The true number of Zika cases was estimated at more than 30,000.\n\nZika spread westwards from French Polynesia to New Caledonia, where imported cases from French Polynesia were reported from November 2013 onwards. The first indigenous case was confirmed in January 2014 by the Pasteur Institute. On 10 February, there were 64 reported cases of Zika in the communities of Greater Nouméa, Dumbéa, and Ouvéa, of which 30 were imported from French Polynesia. By 26 February 2014, there were 140 confirmed cases of Zika in New Caledonia, including 32 imported cases. The outbreak peaked in April, and by 17 September, the number of confirmed cases had gone up to 1,400, of which 35 were imported. During the same time period, there were also outbreaks of chikungunya fever and dengue fever.\n\nIn February 2014, an outbreak of Zika was reported in the Cook Islands, to the southwest of French Polynesia. In March, an Australian woman was diagnosed with a Zika virus infection by Queensland Health following a recent trip to the Cook Islands, becoming the second reported case of Zika diagnosed in Australia. Nearly 40 other cases of Zika virus infection were imported into New Zealand. By 29 May, the outbreak had ended, with 50 confirmed and 932 suspected cases of Zika virus infection.\n\nBy March 2014, there were one confirmed and 40 suspected cases of Zika virus infection on Easter Island. The Zika virus was suspected to have been carried to the island by a tourist from French Polynesia during the annual Tapati festival, held between January and February. Chilean health authorities decided against issuing a health alert, saying that the outbreak had been contained and was under control, and advised travelers to take precautions against mosquito bites. By the end of the year, 173 cases of Zika had been reported, but all of the cases were described as \"mild\".\n\nOn 24 September 2014, a Belgian woman flying to Easter Island from Tahiti was diagnosed with Zika virus infection after having previously received ambulatory care in Tahiti, and was taken to Hanga Roa Hospital for evaluation. LAN Airlines undertook operations to ensure other people on the woman's flight were not infected, and local health authorities stated that Zika was not a risk for people on the island.\n\nZika is a mosquito-borne disease. Four aedine species of mosquito are found in the Pacific, including \"Aedes aegypti\", widespread across the South Pacific, and \"Aedes polynesiensis\", found between Fiji and French Polynesia. \"Aedes aegypti\" has previous been identified as a wild vector of the Zika virus, and preliminary results from the Institut Louis-Malardé have supported the main role of \"Aedes aegypti\" and probable role of \"Aedes polynesiensis\" in spreading the Zika virus.\n\nPeople infected with the Zika virus traveling to other Pacific islands could transmit the disease to local mosquitoes that bit them. The infected mosquitoes could then go on to spread Zika among the local mosquito population, and thence cause outbreaks of Zika among local people.\n\nA study conducted between November 2013 and February 2014 in French Polynesia found that 2.8% of blood donors tested positive for the Zika virus, of which 3% were asymptomatic at the time of blood donation. 11 of the infected donors studied subsequently reported symptoms of Zika virus infection within 10 days. This indicated a potential risk of transmission of the Zika virus through blood transfusions, but there are no confirmed cases of this occurring. Nucleic acid testing of blood donors was implemented in French Polynesia from 13 January 2014 onwards to prevent unintended transmission of the Zika virus.\n\nA concurrent increase in neurological syndromes and autoimmune complications was first reported in early 2014. Of the 8,723 cases of Zika reported in French Polynesia, complications related to neurological signs of infection were noted in 74 people, including Guillain–Barré syndrome (GBS) in 42 people, as well as encephalitis, meningoencephalitis, paraesthesia, facial paralysis or myelitis in 25. However, there was only one laboratory confirmation of Zika virus infection using RT-PCR in patients with GBS. Among the initial 38 cases of GBS found in suspected Zika cases, 73% were male and infected individuals were aged between 27 and 70. This was highly unusual, as prior to the Zika outbreak there had only been 21 cases of GBS in French Polynesia between 2009 and 2012. 18 people newly diagnosed with GBS were admitted to the local rehabilitation centre, putting heavy strain on the limited intensive care resources available.\n\nOn 24 November 2015, health authorities in French Polynesia reported that there had been an unusual increase in the number of cases of central nervous system malformations in fetuses and infants during 2014–2015, coinciding with the outbreak of Zika on the islands. These malformations included 12 with fetal cerebral malformations or polymalformative syndromes, which includes microcephaly, and another 5 with brainstem dysfunction and absence of swallowing, much greater than the annual average of one case. None of the pregnant women involved had medical signs of Zika virus infection, but four who were tested gave positive results in IgG serology assays for flaviviruses, suggesting an asymptomatic Zika virus infection during pregnancy. French Polynesian health authorities hypothesise that these abnormalities are associated with Zika if pregnant women are infected during the first or second trimester of pregnancy. Dr. Didier Musso, an infectious disease specialist at the Institut Louis-Malardé, said that there was \"very high suspicion\" of a link between microcephaly and the Zika virus outbreak in French Polynesia, but added that further research was still needed.\n\nThe two cases of Zika virus infection imported into Japan from French Polynesia in February 2014 showed signs of leukopenia (decreased levels of white blood cells) and moderate thrombocytopenia (decreased levels of platelets).\n\nBrazilian researchers have suggested that a traveler infected with the Zika virus arrived in Brazil from French Polynesia, leading to the ongoing Zika virus outbreak that began in 2015. This may have occurred during the 2014 FIFA World Cup tournament, or shortly after, based on phylogenetic DNA analysis of the virus. French researchers have speculated that the virus arrived in August 2014, when canoeing teams from French Polynesia, New Caledonia, the Cook Islands and Easter Island attended the Va'a World Sprint Championships in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nBetween 1 January and 20 May 2015, a further 82 confirmed cases of Zika were reported in New Caledonia, including ten imported cases.\n\nIn early 2015, two cases of Zika virus infection were reported in travelers returning to Italy from French Polynesia.\n\nIn February 2015, an outbreak of Zika began in the Solomon Islands. The Ministry of Health and Medical Services reported the first laboratory confirmation of Zika virus infection on 12 March 2015, and by 3 May 302 cases of Zika had been reported, with the number of new cases steadily decreasing.\n\nOn 27 April 2015, the Ministry of Health of Vanuatu announced that blood samples collected prior to Cyclone Pam in March were confirmed to contain the Zika virus. The Ministry of Health advised people to consult medical aid if they experienced a high fever with no obvious cause, and recommended communities clean up places where mosquitoes could lay eggs. The introduction of the Zika virus was thought to be linked to frequent travel between New Caledonia and Vanuatu.\n\nLocal transmission of the Zika virus by mosquitoes has been reported in the Polynesian islands of American Samoa, Samoa, and Tonga since November 2015. Cases of Zika virus infection have subsequently been confirmed in American Samoa, Samoa, Tonga, and the Marshall Islands.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "56142360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56142360", "title": "Alan Lizotte", "text": "Alan Lizotte\n\nAlan Jeffrey Lizotte is an American criminologist and Distinguished Professor in the School of Criminal Justice at the University at Albany. \nLizotte grew up in Grand Junction, Colorado, where he later recalled almost everyone he knew owning a gun. He served in the United States Navy from July 1966 to January 1970. His service included one tour on the USS Jouett in the Vietnam War, and one-and-a-half tours in the Inshore Undersea Warfare Group One, Unit 2, on land; he attained the rank of Second Class Petty Officer as a radioman before being discharged. He later received his bachelor's degree in sociology from Brown University in 1974, followed by a M.A. (1976) and Ph.D. (1979) from the University of Illinois, also in sociology. As a grad student at the University of Illinois, he shared an office with Gary Kleck.\n\nLizotte was an assistant professor of sociology at Emory University from 1978 to 1980. He first joined the faculty of the University at Albany's School of Criminal Justice in 1985 as an associate professor, and was named a full professor there in 1993. In 2016, he became a Distinguished Professor at the School. He served as the director of the School's Hindelang Criminal Justice Research Center from 1994 to 1997, and then again from 2003 to 2010, when he was named the School's dean; he retained the latter position until 2015. From 2004 to 2007, he was an executive counselor for the American Society of Criminology.\nIn 2003, Lizotte received the Michael J. Hindelang Award from the American Society of Criminology, and in 2014, he was named one of its fellows.\n"}
{"id": "51504389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51504389", "title": "Angerdorf", "text": "Angerdorf\n\nAn Angerdorf (plural: \"Angerdörfer\") is a type of village that is characterised by the houses and farmsteads being laid out around a central grassed area, the \"anger\" (from the Old High German \"angar\" =pasture or grassy place), a village green which was common land, owned jointly by the village community. The \"anger\" is usually in the shape of a lens or an eye, but may also take other forms: a rectangle, triangle, circle or semi-circle (illustrated). The buildings are oriented with their eaves facing the road. Livestock stalls and barns are at the rear of the plot (in Austria called the \"Hintaus\") and may be linked by a farm track that runs around the village forming an outer ring.\n\nThere is often a village pond on the \"anger\" and sometimes a stream flows through it which may not be easy to recognise today where the groundwater level has changed. The waterbody may well be the reason the \"anger\" was chosen. Originally there were no buildings on the \"anger\", but in the course of time other community facilities were often built on it, such as the village church, village school or a smithy.\n\n\"Angerdörfer\" occur in Central Europe, especially on ground moraine plates and in loess-covered terrain. In Germany they are common in East Germany and east Central Germany. They were often established during the period of German Ostkolonisation in the Middle Ages and in many western Hungarian villages (for example in Burgenland's Loretto, formerly in Hungary, with the largest \"anger\" in Europe) the original layout has survived.\n\nIn Austria this type of village occurs predominantly in the Waldviertel and Weinviertel provinces of Lower Austria, in the Vienna Basin, in Burgenland and in east and south Styria.\n\nThere are also \"Angerdörfer\" in Lorraine in the vicinity of the Franco-German language boundary (e. g. Sommerviller) and in North England (e. g. Maulds Meaburn).\n\n"}
{"id": "32870533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32870533", "title": "Bandi Rajan Babu", "text": "Bandi Rajan Babu\n\nBandi Rajan Babu (9 February 1938 – 25 August 2011) was an Indian photographer. He is known for his black and white pictures of tribal people. He owned the Rajan School of Photography.\n\nBandi Rajan Babu was born at Korutla, in the Karimnagar district (Jagtial district) of the Indian state of Telangana. \n\nRajan took to serious photography in 1960 after joining the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University.\n\nRajan Babu was all set to become a painter until given a Kodak camera. “One of my cousins presented me with a camera when I was in my seventh class and I casually clicked some photos that were appreciated by all, and that was the seeding of a photographer in me. Later, when I joined the five-year diploma course in commercial art, I came across Raja Triambak Raj Bahadur, a pioneer in pictorial photography. It was he who inspired me to wield the camera. And here I am today from a painter to a photographer.\"\n\nHe started as a lecturer at JNTU Fine Arts College. Later, he established his own school and mastered the craft of ‘pictorial photography'. He was a Fellow of the Royal Photographic Society of Great Britain, an Associate of the International Federation of Photographic Art, France, and an Honorary Fellow of the AP State Akademi of Photography.\n\nHe became a pictorial, fashion and glamour, industrial and advertising photographer. He drew inspiration from Raja Triambak Raj Bahadur, the first from former Andhra Pradesh to be honored with the status of Associate of Britain's Royal Photographic Society. \n\nHe later worked as a scientific photographer in International Crop Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics. \n\nHe opened his studio in 1978 and thereafter, was among India's leading photographers. \n\nHe married and had three kids. He has five grand children.\n\nRajan got his first international honor from Belgium, received the APRS honor in 1983, and followed it up with the Fellowship of the Royal Photographic Society in 1987. Apart from winning national and international awards, he is the only Fellow of Royal Photographic Society from AP.\n\n"}
{"id": "236191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236191", "title": "Biopsychosocial model", "text": "Biopsychosocial model\n\nThe biopsychosocial model is a model of health that includes biological, psychological, and social factors, The model was proposed by George L. Engel in 1977 for understanding health and illness. It has been criticized for lacking philosophical coherence and being undisciplined.\n\nThe biopsychosocial model was proposed by George L. Engel to better reflect the development of illness through the complex interaction of biological factors (genetic, biochemical, \"etc\"), psychological factors (mood, personality, behavior, etc.), and social factors (cultural, familial, socioeconomic, medical, etc.). The model provides a blueprint for research, a framework for teaching, and a design for action in the real world of health care.\n\nThe proposal of the model was in reaction to the perceived lack of science being used in psychiatry at the time and the reductionist approach used in other medicine fields—neither of which were adequate for treating illness. In developing the model, Engel noted that it needed to be equally applicable for illnesses, rather than being for either physical or psychological problems. By considering both in the same terms, it became obvious that both the inclusion of somatic and psychosocial factors were indispensable and the exclusion of either would impact on patient care.\n\nThere have been a number of criticisms of the biopsychosocial model. Benning summarised the arguments against the model including that it lacked philosophical coherence, was insensitive to patients' subjective experience, was unfaithful to the general systems theory that Engel claimed it be rooted in, and that it engendered an undisciplined eclecticism that provides no safeguards against either the dominance or the under-representation of any one of the three domains of bio, psycho, or social. Some have argued that the approach borders on anarchy because of the suggestion that the target and focus on intervention is determined by the practitioner based on personal preference. Finally, some became reductionistic about the model itself, attempting to predict small parts of one aspect to predict the functioning in one field of medicine, for example psychiatry.\n\n"}
{"id": "45708190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45708190", "title": "Buddy Elias", "text": "Buddy Elias\n\nBernhard Paul ″Buddy″ Elias (2 June 1925 – 16 March 2015) was a Swiss actor and president of the Anne Frank Fonds, the foundation dedicated to preserving the memory of his cousin Anne Frank.\n\nElias was born in Frankfurt am Main in Germany in 1925. His father, Erich Elias, became head of the Basel-based Opekta company in 1929 and Bernhard moved there in 1931. In 1947 he joined Holiday on Ice and was with them for over ten years and later acted on stage in Switzerland, Great Britain, France, and Germany. In the mid-1970s, he appeared increasingly in film and television, mainly in Holocaust-themed productions. His mother was Helene Frank, Anne Frank's paternal aunt.\n\nElias was the first cousin and last-surviving close relative of Holocaust diarist Anne Frank, who died in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in February or March 1945. He was president of the Anne Frank Fonds, located in Basel. The Anne Frank Fonds is responsible for the rights of Franks' \"Diary of a Young Girl\", which until his death in 1980 had been headed by her father, Otto Frank. \n\nElias lived in Basel with his wife, Gerti Elias (\"née\" Wiedner), where he died on 16 March 2015. They had two sons, Patrick and Oliver, who became actors.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11247261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11247261", "title": "Buffalo Readings", "text": "Buffalo Readings\n\nBuffalo Readings is a poetry reading series and group. There have been hundreds of Buffalo Readings held since 2002. Members of the Buffalo Readings refer to themselves as \"Buffalo\" or \"Buffalo Poets\" and encourage listeners to shout out \"moose\" in addition to applauding at a Buffalo Reading. They do not hold poetry slams, and they have cited their dislike of slams as a factor in the formation of the group. Members of the Buffalo Poets were the featured bloggers on the Oxford University Press website for National Poetry Month.\n\nThe group was founded in New York City in 2001 by the original three Buffalo poets: David Acevedo, Roger Kenny, and Anthony Morena. All three were friends from high school, and had been collaborating on the independent \"Ripped Magazine\" Issue 4. During this time Roger was renting a room in a Victorian style house in Jersey City, which became the creative nexus for the early Buffalo Poets. The first official Buffalo Readings was held on February 21, 2002 at Fat Cat Jazz and Billiards on Christopher St. in Manhattan's West Village. The show included performances by several poets, a live DJ, musical performance, and video performances, including an anaglyph video of poet Kurtis Darby reading. Red/Blue 3D glasses were distributed with admission. After the show, on the trip back to the Jersey City house, the poets gave out 3D glasses to commuters on one car of the Path train. The entire car was full of people wearing 3D glasses, even a police officer partook.\n\nSoon after the initial reading, with Anthony no longer part of the group, but with the new member Noah Levin in tow, the Buffalo met the revolutionary activist Rafael Bueno, who was running the squat turned community center \"Casa Del Sol: Future City\" in the Bronx. This led to a successful 3 year reading series held every third Friday at Casa Del Sol, with Bueno joining as a regular member of the Buffalo. Although the early readings at Casa were held in pitch dark, with no electricity, and the only heat from a wood-burning stove, by the pinnacle of the readings the Buffalo were attracting a full house of fans interested in the free spirit of the readings. The readings continued their successful run until Casa Del Sol was shut down by the police on November 20, 2004.\n\nPrior to Casa Del Sol's closing, the Buffalo Readings expanded to the West Coast via David Acevedo who took the Buffalo Readings first to Tacoma and Seattle, then Portland. In Portland the series gained some momentum, attracting many new artists into the Buffalo fold. While the expansion to the West Coast was a success; post-Casa Del Sol's closing the East Coast Buffalo continued to hold events. Between the East & West Coast groups (including many members traveling between both coasts), the Buffalo found themselves featured on KBOO FM's \"Talking Earth\" several times, headlining gigs at Big Sur, one member (David Acevedo) published in the book Heal (Between the Pages of These Folks We Seek a Panacea), and the Buffalo as a whole found themselves as the featured house poets on the Oxford University Press Blog during National Poetry Month and also throughout the summer of 2007.\n\nCurrently the Buffalo find themselves inactive.\n\nThroughout the history of the Buffalo, they have attracted many members on throughout the US which currently include: King Otho, Noah Levin, David Acevedo, Kevin Callahan, James Honzik, Michael “Molotov” Franklin, Shakuhachi Jon, the jazz band Flip, Brian Kenny and the activist Rafael Bueno. The Buffalo's aim throughout the years has stayed the same, to inspire other artists to shake all structures, inspired towards an artistic and creative revolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "12869493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12869493", "title": "Catholic Club", "text": "Catholic Club\n\nThe Catholic Club in Bangalore is a social association established by Bangalore Catholic Archdiocese in 1948, although its membership is not limited to Catholics. The club-house is located on Museum Road next to St. Patrick's church. The Catholic Club is notable for its Christmas ball and New Year's ball.\n"}
{"id": "4347957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4347957", "title": "Civitas (think tank)", "text": "Civitas (think tank)\n\nCivitas: The Institute for the Study of Civil Society is an independent think tank, not affiliated to a political party, aimed at developing public understanding of the framework of a free and democratic society. Key issues include crime, schooling, health, immigration and the family unit.\n\nCivitas was founded by David George Green and Robert Whelan early in 2000 as an independent think tank. It is a British registered charity (No. 1085494), financed by private donations. It receives no government funding and has no affiliations with any political party. It received a large donation for a three-year programme of research from The Reece Foundation in 2011. The Civitas website states that \"We publish the names of donors who, on request, are willing to be identified\". However, its website provides no up to date information on its funders.\n\nThe stated underlying purpose of Civitas is to deepen public understanding of the legal, institutional and moral framework that makes a free and democratic society possible.\n\nThey state that what they do is:\n\n\nThe think tank describes itself as \"classical liberal\" and \"non-partisan\". However \"The Times\" and \"The Daily Telegraph\" have described it as a \"right-of-centre think-tank\". Its director David G. Green writes occasionally in \"The Daily Telegraph\" and its deputy director Anastasia de Waal frequently contributes to \"The Guardian's\" \"Comment is free\" section. Its areas of policy interest include:\n\n\n\nBooks\n\nCrime\nEducation\nFamily\nHealth\nImmigration\nManufacturing\n\nCivitas provides teaching materials and guest speakers for schools, in particular on family structure and on the EU.\n\nThe EU project publishes a series of free factsheets on the European Union, designed for use by A-level students. Civitas also arranges speakers for talks and debates in schools on the subject of the EU.\n\nCivitas runs supplementary schools on Saturday mornings and after school hours. The schools teach English and maths to children from disadvantaged backgrounds, emphasising traditional approaches such as phonics. There are now twenty supplementary schools in King's Cross, Hammersmith, Camberwell, Keighley, Birmingham, Great Yarmouth and Bradford providing classes for over 600 children per week.\n\nCivitas is adapting the American Core Knowledge curriculum for the UK. It is a year-by-year outline of the specific and shared content and skills to be taught in Years 1 to 6. The first Core Knowledge book, \"What Your Year 1 Child Needs to Know\", aroused controversy over its message to minorities when released in 2011. The books for Year 1 and Year 2 were published in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1077491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1077491", "title": "Collective consciousness", "text": "Collective consciousness\n\nCollective consciousness, collective conscience, or collective conscious () is the set of shared beliefs, ideas, and moral attitudes which operate as a unifying force within society. The term was introduced by the French sociologist Émile Durkheim in his \"The Division of Labour in Society\" in 1893.\n\nThe French word \"conscience\" generally means \"conscience\", \"consciousness\", \"awareness\", or \"perception\". Commentators and translators of Durkheim disagree on which is most appropriate, or whether the translation should depend on the context. Some prefer to treat the word 'conscience' as an untranslatable foreign word or technical term, without its normal English meaning. In general, it does not refer to the specifically moral conscience, but to a shared understanding of social norms.\n\nAs for \"collective\", Durkheim makes clear that he is not reifying or hypostasizing this concept; for him, it is \"collective\" simply in the sense that it is common to many individuals; \"cf.\" social fact.\n\nDurkheim used the term in his books \"The Division of Labour in Society\" (1893), \"The Rules of the Sociological Method\" (1895), \"Suicide\" (1897), and \"The Elementary Forms of Religious Life\" (1912). In \"The Division of Labour\", Durkheim argued that in traditional/primitive societies (those based around clan, family or tribal relationships), totemic religion played an important role in uniting members through the creation of a common consciousness (\"conscience collective\" in the original French). In societies of this type, the contents of an individual's consciousness are largely shared in common with all other members of their society, creating a mechanical solidarity through mutual likeness.\n\nIn \"Suicide\", Durkheim developed the concept of anomie to refer to the social rather than individual causes of suicide. This relates to the concept of collective consciousness, as if there is a lack of integration or solidarity in society then suicide rates will be higher.\n\nVarious forms of what might be termed \"collective consciousness\" in modern societies have been identified by other sociologists, such as Mary Kelsey, going from solidarity attitudes and memes to extreme behaviors like group-think, herd behavior, or collectively shared experiences during collective rituals and dance parties. Mary Kelsey, sociology lecturer in the University of California, Berkeley, used the term in the early 2000s to describe people within a social group, such as mothers, becoming aware of their shared traits and circumstances, and as a result acting as a community and achieving solidarity. Rather than existing as separate individuals, people come together as dynamic groups to share resources and knowledge. It has also developed as a way of describing how an entire community comes together to share similar values. This has also been termed \"hive mind\", \"group mind\", \"mass mind\", and \"social mind\".\n\nAccording to a theory the character of collective consciousness depends on the type of mnemonic encoding used within a group (Tsoukalas, 2007). The specific type of encoding used has a predictable influence on the groups behavior and collective ideology. Informal groups, that meet infrequently and spontaneously, have a tendency to represent significant aspects of their community as episodic memories. This usually leads to strong social cohesion and solidarity, an indulgent atmosphere, an exclusive ethos and a restriction of social networks. Formal groups, that have scheduled and anonymous meetings, tend to represent significant aspects of their community as semantic memories which usually leads to weak social cohesion and solidarity, a more moderate atmosphere, an inclusive ethos and an expansion of social networks.\n\nSociety is made up of various collective groups, such as the family, community, organizations, regions, nations which as Burns and Egdahl state \"\"can be considered to possess agential capabilities\": to think, judge, decide, act, reform; to conceptualize self and others as well as self's actions and interactions; and to reflect.\"(italics in the original). Burns and Egdahl note that during the Second World War different nations behaved differently towards their Jewish populations. The Jewish populations of Bulgaria and Denmark survived whereas the majority of the Jewish populations in Slovakia and Hungary did not survive the Holocaust. It is suggested that these different national behaviors vary according to the different collective consciousness between nations. This illustrates that differences in collective consciousness can have practical significance.\n\nEdmans, Garcia, and Norlia examined national sporting defeats and correlated them with decreases in the value of stocks. They examined 1,162 football matches in thirty-nine countries and discovered that stock markets of those countries dropped on average forty-nine points after being eliminated from the World Cup, and thirty-one points after being eliminated in other tournaments. Edmans, Garcia, and Norli found similar but smaller effects with international cricket, rugby, ice hockey, and basketball games.\n\nAccording to Michelle Filippini’s book \"Using Gramsci\", on Antonio Gramsci, “A collective consciousness, which is to say a living organism, is formed only after the unification of the multiplicity through friction on the part of the individuals; nor can one say that ‘silence’ is not a multiplicity.” Essentially, a form of collective consciousness can be based on fact that Gramsci’s conception of hegemony vis-à-vis the hegemony of the ruling class played a role in mobilizing the collective consciousness of those who are oppressed by the ruling ideas of society, or the ruling hegemony. Collective consciousness in this sense can refer to a multitude of different individual forms of consciousness coalescing into a greater whole. As to whether this whole is unified, this is up for debate. In Gramsci’s view, a unified whole is composed of solidarity among its different constituent parts, and therefore, this whole cannot be uniformly the same. Rather, it can and should embrace different forms of consciousness (or individual experiences of social reality), which coexist to reflect the different experiences of the marginalized peoples in a given society. This is in accordance with Gramsci’s theory of Marxism and class struggle applied to cultural contexts. Cultural Marxism (as distinguished from the right-wing use of the term) embodies the concept of collective consciousness. It incorporates social movements that are based on some sort of collective identity; these identities can include, for instance, gender, sexual orientation, race, and ability, and can be incorporated by collective-based movements into a broader historical material analysis of class struggle.\nGramsci’s theory of collective consciousness thus departs from conventional stereotypes of Marxism as being a purely deterministic, anti-humanist ‘ideology.’ Marxism is often attacked as being somewhat devoid of the interpersonal experiences of the subaltern. Yet, as Gramsci points out, “Modern politics thus ‘abolishes the state as a federation of classes – but certain forms of the internal life of the subaltern classes are reborn as parties, trade unions, cultural associations.’6 “ Thus, the essential collective consciousness of the subaltern manifests itself in the forms of free associations like the aforementioned as a unifying force of diversity in the realm of society and the state. The state itself is an entity that is made up of civil society, in which different groups compete for political power. Thus, a multiple collective consciousness can exist within the body politic. This collective consciousness is often used to advocate for basic human rights at the national and international level. Collective consciousness in these instances can lead to a greater social consciousness among people and can act as a reinforcing framework for Marxist thought.\n\nAccording to Filippini, “The nature and workings of collective organisms – not only parties, but also trade unions, associations and intermediate bodies in general – represent a specific sphere of reflection in the Prison Notebooks, particularly in regard to the new relationship between State and society that in Gramsci’s view emerged during the age of mass politics.” Collective organisms can express collective consciousness. Whether this form of expression finds itself in the realm of the state or the realm of society is up to the direction that the subjects take in expressing their collective consciousness. In Gramsci’s famous Prison Notebooks, the ongoing conflict between civil society, the bureaucracy, and the state necessitates the emergence of a collective consciousness that can often act as an intermediary between these different realms. The public organizations of protest, such as labor unions and anti-war organizations, are vehicles that can unite multiple types of collective consciousness. Although identity-based movements are necessary for the progress of democracy and can generate collective consciousness, they cannot completely do so without a unifying framework. This is why anti-war and labor movements provide an avenue that has united various social movements under the banner of a multiple collective consciousness. This is also why future social movements need to have an ethos of collective consciousness if they are to succeed in the long-term.\n\nAccording to Zukerfeld, “The different disciplines that have studied knowledge share an understanding of it as a product of human subjects – individual, collective, etc.” Knowledge in a sociological sense is derived from social conditions and social realities. Collective consciousness also reflects social realities, and sociological knowledge can be gained through the adoption of a collective consciousness. Many different disciplines such as philosophy and literature examine collective consciousness from different lenses. These different disciplines reach a similar understanding of a collective consciousness despite their different approaches to the subject. The inherent humanness in the idea of collective consciousness refers to a shared way of thinking among human beings in the pursuit of knowledge. Individual knowledge can be distinguished from collective knowledge by its emphasis on individual people as opposed to groups of people. Collective consciousness is thus group-oriented rather than individualistic. \n\nCollective consciousness, to some degree, can be distinguished from social consciousness. Indeed, according to Zukerfeld, “the problem is the integration of the subject in the web of 'social relations'. These, particularly those of production, are what determine ‘social consciousness.’ “ If social consciousness is determined by social relations, then collective consciousness is determined by collective relations. There is a big difference between the two. Social relations refer to material, historically determined relations, primarily of production and exchange, between people. Collective relations, on the other hand, refers to the co-existence of different groups of people or the 'collective'. Coexistence is what ultimately determines the level of collective consciousness in any given society. Societies with a higher level of collective consciousness are more likely to accept the principle of human cooperation versus the principle of human competition.\n\nCollective consciousness can provide a new understanding of the relationship between self and society. As Zukerfeld states, “Even though it impels us, as a first customary gesture, to analyse the subjective (such as individual consciousness) or intersubjective bearers (such as the values of a given society), in other words those which Marxism and sociology examine, now we can approach them in an entirely different light.” Unlike previous modes of thought, “cognitive materialism” is presented in the work by Zukerfeld as a sort of ‘third way’ between sociological knowledge and Marxism. Cognitive materialism is based on a kind of collective consciousness of the mind. This consciousness in turn can be used, with cognitive materialism as a guiding force, by human beings in order to critically analyze society and social conditions. Critical analysis will then spur collective action to solve these social problems. Once the goals of solving these problems have been achieved, the creation of a new, humane society will involve some degree of collective consciousness. Collective consciousness, in this case, is a mechanism to analyze subjective societal factors and integrate them into the overall framework of social analysis. \n\nIn a work using a Serbian folk story as a case study on the collective experience of oral and literary traditions, Wolfgang Ernst examines collective consciousness in terms of forms of media. \"Current discourse analysis drifts away from the 'culturalist turn' of the last two or three decades and its concern with individual and collective memory as an extended target of historical research\". Despite this turn away from questions of individual and collective knowledge, there is still a collective consciousness present in terms of the shared appreciation of folk stories and oral traditions. Folk stories enable the subject and the audiences to come together around a common experience and a shared heritage. In the case of the Serbian folk “gusle” , the Serbian people take pride in this musical instrument of epic poetry and oral tradition and play it at social gatherings. Expressions of art and culture are, ultimately, expressions of a collective consciousness. They can also be expressions of multiple social realities. Regardless, a permeating collective consciousness exists in society and can be expressed through multiple modes of communication.\n\nCollective consciousness has a relationship with collective memory. “Collective memory is thus no longer a reference to a remembered past but a way of analyzing the present as a collection of big (meta-)data in real-time for future prediction.” In other words, the collective consciousness of the people, manifested through forms of literary and cultural media, can be quantified by big data. Big data can be a representation of collective consciousness insofar as it tries to quantify the experiences of the public on the Internet. However, there is a limit to quantifying social experiences. Collective consciousness that is independent of any sort of quantifiable data, namely through oral tradition, has always been a part of human culture and will continue to remain so. In the future, collective consciousness will also remain as a huge part of human society. However, the form it will take will be very different from the form it is taking now.\n\nFinally, it is important to remember the realness involved in creating a collective consciousness. Reality is socially defined, and is based on the social experiences of human beings. Indeed, as Ernst argues, “Phonographic recordings of real voices irritate the historical consciousness of cultural memory.” The emphasis laid here on authenticity is also what makes up the lived experience of collective consciousness. The authenticity of collective consciousness necessitates human participation in order to provide it with a deeper meaning. If reality is not authentic and does not represent the social experiences of the collective, collective consciousness will also cease to have any significant meaning. Rather, it will become submerged in favor of an inauthentic, artificial sense of reality and society. Therefore, the final attribute of collective consciousness is its fundamental essence of reality as opposed to unreality.\n\n"}
{"id": "24076247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24076247", "title": "Compassionate release", "text": "Compassionate release\n\nCompassionate release is a process by which inmates in criminal justice systems may be eligible for immediate early release on grounds of \"particularly extraordinary or compelling circumstances which could not reasonably have been foreseen by the court at the time of sentencing\". Compassionate release procedures, which are also known as medical release, medical parole, medical furlough and humanitarian parole, can be mandated by the courts or by internal corrections authorities. Unlike parole, compassionate release is not based on a prisoner's behavior or sentencing, but on medical or humanitarian changes in the prisoner's situation.\n\nObtaining a compassionate release for a prison inmate is a process that varies from country to country (and sometimes even within countries) but generally involves petitioning the warden or court to the effect that the subject is terminally ill and would benefit from obtaining aid outside of the prison system, or is otherwise eligible under the relevant law.\n\nCompassionate release is most often granted to inmates with terminal illnesses that cause life expectancies of time periods less than between six and eighteen months, depending on the jurisdiction. Other allowable causes for compassionate release may be medical but non-terminal, such as incurable debilitating mental or physical conditions that prevent inmate self-care or a combination of advanced age and irreversible age-related conditions that prevent functioning in a prison setting.\nPrisoners with illness such as Alzheimer's would be considered eligible for release. \n\nGrounds for compassionate release may also be familial, although not all jurisdictions offer this option. Under United States Federal law for example inmates may be released to care for a minor child or debilitated spouse in the absence of other family caregivers. This is intended to be subsequent to the death or debilitation of the child’s primary caregiver in the former case or the finding of permanent mental or physical disability of the spouse in the latter. While there are clear advantages to the individual in this type of release, there are many procedural obstacles to this type of petition which lead to it rarely being granted.\n\nDebate as to the relative merits of compassionate release is ongoing, and major arguments are presented below.\n\nArguments for expansion of compassionate release programs generally address the benefit to terminally ill prisoners as well as cost savings to the state. Terminal illness which requires special care or treatment is a major concern for prison inmates who may be unable to access the same type or quality of care in prison as they would outside of an institutional setting. These illnesses can further shorten the lifespan of the individual while he or she is in prison, a setting that already has poorer health outcomes and a lower life expectancy than the general population. The Bureau of Prisons estimates that the United States would save $5.8 million per year by releasing 100 people on compassionate release per year, and overcrowding would be lessened. Those who are approved for compassionate release have a lower tendency to recommit crime, which is attributed to those being released being in extremely poor health, as well as possibly due to the careful screening process inmates go through for risk of recidivism before approval for compassionate release can be granted.\n\nCompassionate release relies on good faith, requiring that the released inmates do not continue committing crimes after they have been released; while many of these criminals are in very poor health, some are not incapacitated, and their reintroduction into society puts them back into a setting where they would be free to commit crimes. A questionnaire study by Jennifer Boothby and Lorraine Overduin on attitudes towards compassionate release suggested that the general public have negative attitudes towards the compassionate release of prisoners. This suggests that the community’s negative attitudes toward compassionately released prisoners could be an obstacle to those seeking an expansion of this type of resentencing, and that there is a negative attitude in communities over mingling with those convicted of crimes meriting time potentially up to life sentences. Another argument against compassionate release is fairness and concern over justice for time served; for those that were placed in prison justifiably, the question arises of how long they should be forced to serve for their crimes before they are allowed renewed access to their community for health and support, and state and federal laws generally stipulate guidelines that address minimum proportions of sentences that must be served prior to eligibility for compassionate release.\n\nThe process of obtaining compassionate release on medical grounds has been criticized in multiple states for being highly subjective on a case-by-case basis, relying heavily on specific doctors' opinions and for not having sufficiently clear-cut guidelines as to what defines a patient as being eligible for compassionate release. This often results in calls for reform, fueled by statistics regarding the rate of compassionate release and the illnesses of the patients who do not receive it.\n\nA major roadblock to the implementation of compassionate release is its reliance on medical trial. Because the criteria for medically based petitions for compassionate release is, by necessity, dependent on medicine and doctors, individual medical professionals have an inordinate amount of power in determining each compassionate release case. Because of the high degree of variation among individual medical professionals, the high variation that is translated into each decision is a major issue in many of the current compassionate release systems. The inconsistency of current systems of compassionate release is a common flaw that hinders increased use of compassionate release.\n\nFor prisoners suffering from terminal illnesses, alternative options include programs that distribute health materials and segregation of affected individuals and expanded hospice programs. Hospice programs within the prisons have been used, although this does not address the humanitarian aspect of allowing inmates to die with dignity among family and friends, and the issue of cost to the state still looms large. Specialized medical care in a prison setting is difficult to achieve and is a costly proposition. With the prison population aging and in poorer health than the general population, as previously mentioned, cost may become a prohibitive factor, increasing the attraction of compassionate release where possible.\n\nFor non-medical cases such as care for a family member in the absence of other available parties, practical alternatives are difficult to identify. A minor child or disabled spouse for whom no other caregiver is available is likely to end up as a ward of the courts or in institutional care if the compassionate release request is not granted.\n\nAs of 2009, Corrections systems with compassionate release procedures included the United States Federal Bureau of Prisons (often known as the BOP), Scotland, England and Wales, China, France, New Zealand and 36 of the 50 U.S. state prison systems.\n\nNew Zealand legislation includes a provision for prisoners to apply for compassionate release from prison. Section 41 of the Parole Act 2002 provides that the Parole board may, on referral by the chairperson, direct that an offender be released on compassionate release on either of the following grounds: (a) the offender has given birth to a child or (b) the offender is seriously ill and is unlikely to recover. The Department of Corrections is not responsible for decisions regarding compassionate release of prisoners. When a prisoner is seriously ill and unlikely to recover, an application will be made to the New Zealand Parole Board where an independent decision will be made. All prisoners in New Zealand are eligible for compassionate release. The length of a sentence or eligibility for parole are not factors that will affect the prisoner’s ability to apply for compassionate release.\n\nIn November 2016, a high profile prisoner, Vicki Ravana Letele was granted compassionate release from prison. Letele was sentenced to three years and two months for ten charges of dishonestly using a document. The application for compassionate release was based on Letele’s diagnosis of metastatic cancer. Her illness was terminal with a life expectancy of 6 months. The chairman of the Parole Board, Hon J W Gendall initially declined Letele’s release on compassionate grounds, citing that \"it is quite often the case that prisoners contract or are diagnosed with serious illness but if they can be adequately treated and managed in prison and death is not imminent…that compassionate release is not appropriate. It is not the case that family and others may reasonably believe that the prisoner should be in care of his/her family at such difficult times.\" \n\nThe serving Prime Minister of New Zealand in 2016, Sir John Key, voiced his opinion on the Letele case following widespread public outcry and protest. Key stated that \"I would have thought we were a pretty compassionate country. We do need to take on board the criminal activity that the person’s undertaken but I don’t think we want to see people dying in prison if, on compassionate grounds, it’s reasonable they be returned home.\" Initial conflicting views between the Ministry of Justice and the Parole Board resolved on 10 November 2016, when the Parole Board under s41(3) of the Parole Act 2002 ordered the compassionate release of Letele. The decision factored in that there was no offending history, the prison security classification was low and Letele was plainly seriously ill and unlikely to recover. \n\nIn the last financial year of 2015/2016 seven prisoners were released on compassionate grounds, all cases determined on the basis that they were seriously ill and unlikely to recover. Figures from the years 2006 – 2013 revealed a total of twenty-five applications, with three of those declined. The application process for compassionate release can be difficult to achieve in a timely manner, which is one of the reasons that very few applications are received. Other reasons include the likelihood of a prisoner dying in prison before an application is approved, and an absence of reasonable and available support from family if a prisoner is released from prison. Furthermore, long-stay prisoners may not wish to be released, the prison may be regarded as home, and fellow inmates as family. \n\nHuman rights approach \n\nIn practice, the Parole Board only releases prisoners on compassionate release if they are seriously ill and unlikely to recover. However, the Act also provides for compassionate release of a prisoner when they have given birth to a child. Prison management first assess the prisoner’s suitability, taking account of security classification, the welfare of the prisoner and the child, and the views of the Ministry for Vulnerable Children Oranga Tamariki (formerly Child Youth and Family). A report is then submitted to the Parole Board. However, the establishment of mother and baby units in prisons has made this provision practically void. The reason it has not been removed from the Act is because it would violate New Zealand’s International Human Rights obligations and be in contravention of s19 of the Bill of Rights Act; Freedom from Discrimination, if it were not available. Comparatively, compassionate release is based on underlying principles of human dignity. Dignity in this sense refers to the right of a human being to have inherent equal and inalienable rights to achieve social progress and better standards of living. Preventing the release of seriously ill prisoners would undeniably violate their human dignity. \n\nThe 2004 review of Human Rights in New Zealand stated that the vulnerability of people in detention was one of New Zealand’s most pressing human rights issues. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child United Nations Convention on the Right's of the Child (UNCROC) and the Convention of Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) are the relevant conventions in relation to compassionate release. In practice, the Department of Corrections supports a child's contact with parents who are in prison when it is in the best interests of the child. Prisoners are encouraged to have positive relationships with their children so they can better reintegrate on release. These principles uphold New Zealand’s obligations under Article 9 of UNCROC: Separation from Parents, and includes several programs including ‘Mothers with Babies Units’, ‘Mothers and Bonding Facilities’ and importantly, ‘Prison Activities Centres’ that teach fathers parenting skills. \n\nSimilarly, under New Zealand’s obligations in Article 12 of CEDAW improvements were made in women's correctional facilities to include ‘Mothers with Babies Units’ allowing mothers to keep their children with them in prison up until the age of two, where it was previously 9 months. The aim of this is to achieve a reduction in re-offending for the women and increase their children’s life chances. Compassionate release must be available to prisoners following the birth of a child in order to meet the obligations that are specified in these conventions. In practice, the incorporation of units that enable a relationship between a mother and child in prison are consistent with the obligations that New Zealand has in the context of international human rights. This explains the apparent non-existence of compassionate release on the ground that a prisoner has given birth. \n\nEngland and Wales \n\nEngland and Wales allow applications for early release on compassionate grounds for prisoners serving determinate or indeterminate sentences. Three general principles are applied during the decision-making process: the safety of the public, new information not available to the court, and whether there was a specific purpose for the early release. The Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 s10 provides that the Secretary of State may at any time release a prisoner if they are satisfied that exceptional circumstances exist which justify the prisoner’s release on compassionate grounds. Compassionate release will be considered where the prisoner is terminally ill, bedridden or severely incapacitated. Where terminal illness is the case, no specific timescale is strictly followed, however a life expectancy of three months or less is suggested. \n\nPrisoners serving determinate sentences are also eligible for compassionate release based on tragic family circumstances. Prisoners serving indeterminate sentences are excluded from this provision and are subject to further restricting criteria in an application for compassionate release on the basis of terminal illness. They will be assessed on the risk of re-offending, particularly of a sexual or violent nature, whether further imprisonment would reduce their life expectancy, whether adequate arrangements are available outside prison, and whether early release will provide some significant benefit to their family. Where conditions are self-induced, such as a hunger strike or refusal of treatment, an application may be declined. \n\nThe aging prison population \n\nThe rates of death from natural causes have doubled in eight years, with 199 deaths occurring in prison in 2016. The age of the prison population is rising because of a shift in major sentencing trends; prison terms are increasingly longer for the older population. The Prison Reform Trust called for a review of the current compassionate release process, commenting on the difficulty that a medical professional will have diagnosing a three-month life expectancy. The Trust recommended that a one-year life expectancy be sufficient for an application of compassionate release from prison. Former Deputy Director of the Trust observed that older prisoners who are terminally ill are unlikely to pose a risk to the public. His belief was that a range of options should be considered, including compassionate release to ensure that people spend their last days with dignity.\n\nHigh profile cases such as the release of Reggie Kray in 2000 and Ronnie Briggs in 2009 raised issues regarding the term ‘compassionate release’. The idea that compassion should be exercised in relation to prisoners was a concept that did not reconcile with popular societal views. Costs associated with medical care for the elderly and terminally ill was noted, with acceptance of the costs that are incurred sending prison guards to hospital and providing palliative care within the prison environment. However, early release is largely deemed to be socially incompatible. \n\nHuman rights of older persons\n\nCompassionate release is founded on a humanitarian concern for the dying, and practical reasons such as high costs or the inability to care adequately for such persons in prison. Prison is generally deemed unsuitable for compassionate end-of-life care due to its punitive purpose. End-of-life care exists in prisons in England and Wales, however, the adequacy of the care has been challenged, as the opposing goals of security and compassionate care are said to be mutually exclusive. In May 2016, the Council of Europe European Committee on Crime Problems issued a white paper on prison overcrowding. The paper addressed the root causes of prison overcrowding and supports the wide application for early release for the seriously ill and aged prisoners on compassionate grounds. \n\nA 2011 report to the UN Secretary-General highlighted the difficulties with the aging population, particularly in regard to long-term care of the elderly. This is made worse by the lack of legal framework to monitor human rights violations in long-term care facilities. Dying and suffering are not part of a prisoner’s punishment. Human rights recommendations for aging prisoners advocate that necessary changes should be made to adapt to the older prisoner’s physical and mental health. If changes cannot be adequately implemented, then compassionate release of the prisoner should be considered in order not to violate Article 3 on inhumane and degrading treatment of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nThe Scottish legal system permits compassionate release for terminal illness. There are only a few applications per year, and most are granted. A prominent case was that of Abdelbaset al-Megrahi, released on 20 August 2009 because of prostate cancer.\n\nIn the United States forms of compassionate release are found both federally and in the laws of thirty-nine states. With the rapid increase in prison populations following the introduction of mandatory minimum sentencing laws in the 1990s, many people have called for the expanded use of compassionate release as a \"safety valve\" to relieve overcrowded prison systems and reduce pressure on government budgets as well as to ease suffering of inmates and their families. Some states have recently expanded their own forms of compassionate release, as can be seen in New York’s changes to its medical parole laws to include both the terminally ill and chronically ill inmates in the absence of a prognosis of imminent death, although this has not necessarily resulted in more releases.\n\nMany who are eligible for compassionate release on grounds of terminal illness and who have applications pending die in prison before their cases are processed due to case backlogs and narrow interpretation of the law. The issue of where and how to best deliver end of life care has been compounded by the sheer number of prisoners now incarcerated in the United States, as well as by the aging of the prison population.\n\nFederal laws governing compassionate release include 18 U.S.C. 3582(c)1(A), which came into effect on 1 November 1987 and governs those whose offenses occurred since it was enacted, and 18 U.S.C. 4205(g), the previous version, which still controls release of inmates who were convicted of offenses that occurred on or prior to that date. States that offer compassionate release each have their own laws governing eligibility, and it may differ from the federal versions both in the requirements for eligibility and in the type of release that can be granted, for example medical parole rather than resentencing.\n\nTo seek compassionate release, federal inmates must file a petition with the warden. Compassionate release is only granted \"when there are particularly extraordinary or compelling circumstances which could not reasonably have been foreseen by the court at the time of sentencing.\"\n\nIn 2013, the terminally ill Herman Wallace was released from Angola Prison to spend the rest of his life in a personal care home. He died a few days later.\n\nOne notable recipient of compassionate release was Lynne Stewart, a criminal defense attorney who was convicted of passing messages from imprisoned terrorist Omar Abdel-Rahman (the \"Blind Sheikh\") to his followers in al-Jama'a al-Islamiyya. Judge John Koeltl sentenced to Stewart to ten years in prison, but on December 31, 2013, Koeltl ordered Stewart released from federal prison due to her terminal breast cancer. Koeltl cited the incurable nature of Stewart's disease and the \"relatively limited risk\" of recidivism and danger to the community upon release. She was 74 years old at the time of her release from the Federal Medical Center Carswell in Texas where she had been held, and had served just over four years of her sentence. Stewart died in March 2017. \n\nDifferent states have various policies on compassionate release system, varying on details such as the life expectancy required to warrant compassionate release.\n\n"}
{"id": "43806541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43806541", "title": "Continuation novel", "text": "Continuation novel\n\nA continuation novel is a novel in the style of an established series, produced by a new author after the original author's death.\n\nContinuation novels may be official, produced with the permission of the late author's literary executors, or unofficial where the original author's works are now out of copyright.\n\nWhere official continuations are produced, the novel will normally try to keep closely to the style of the original author in order to preserve the integrity and value of the literary franchise and the author may be legally required to do so.\n\nExamples of official continuations include the multiple authors that have continued Ian Fleming's James Bond series, including Kingsley Amis, William Boyd, Sebastian Faulks and others; and the 2014 Hercule Poirot continuation novel \"The Monogram Murders\" by Sophie Hannah, produced with the permission of the Agatha Christie estate.\n\nSome versatile authors have contributed to more than one continuation series, for instance Sebastian Faulks who in addition to James Bond has written the first ever official P.G. Wodehouse Jeeves and Wooster story, \"Jeeves and the Wedding Bells\", published in 2013.\n\nIf not done well, the continuation novel poses risks to the reputation of the dead author but writing one is also a risk for the new author as they are obliged to suppress their own style in favour of the style of an often better-known author and one whose fans may take convincing to accept the legitimacy of the new work. Faulks said of his Wodehouse continuation: \"People said it was brave – or stupid. Either way, it was a ridiculous undertaking. PG Wodehouse is, by common consent, one of the great prose stylists of the 20th century. I didn’t want to make a mess of it.\"\n\nIf the continuation is a success however, it may lead to substantial sales and, just as importantly, revive interest in and sales of the works of the dead author. For this reason publishers will sometimes commission a continuation novel if they feel that interest in the original author is beginning to wane.\n\nWhere the original works are out of copyright, however, the new author(s) are free to interpret the franchise in any way they wish. There are a large number of Sherlock Holmes continuations for instance which vary in quality and authenticity. Such unofficial continuations, which may overlap with fan fiction and pastiche, may introduce completely new characters, change time periods, add or remove plot elements and make as many changes to the original formula as the author feels are useful.\n\n"}
{"id": "19514247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19514247", "title": "Convention on Consent to Marriage, Minimum Age for Marriage and Registration of Marriages", "text": "Convention on Consent to Marriage, Minimum Age for Marriage and Registration of Marriages\n\nThe Convention on Consent to Marriage, Minimum Age for Marriage, and Registration of Marriages was a treaty agreed upon in the United Nations on the standards of marriage. The treaty was opened for signature and ratification by General Assembly resolution 1763 A (XVII) on 7 November 1962 and entered into force 9 December 1964 by exchange of letters, in accordance with article 6. The Convention has been signed by 16 countries and there are 55 parties to the Convention.\n\nThe Convention reaffirms the consensual nature of marriages and requires the parties to establish a minimum marriage age by law and to ensure the registration of marriages.\n\n"}
{"id": "53251032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53251032", "title": "Corruption in Bulgaria", "text": "Corruption in Bulgaria\n\nCorruption in Bulgaria has been a central problem of the country's government since the late 1990s, and fighting it has been at the top of the government's agenda. Despite that, Bulgaria has \"systematically demonstrated very high levels of perception of corruption.\" Government officials reportedly engage in embezzlement, influence trading, government procurement violations and bribery with impunity.\n\nAccording to a January 27, 2016 report by Transparency International, the country is considered the most corrupt member state of the European Union (which accepted Bulgaria as a member in 2007). The report is based on the polling of experts from around the world on topics such as a free press, integrity, and independent judiciaries. In 2015, the European Commission found that Bulgaria had done almost nothing to stem the tide of corruption and organized crime. A poll of Bulgarians indicated that 76 percent believe that political parties are corrupt and 86 percent believe that the judiciary is corrupt.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 71st place out of 180 countries, and the most corrupt in the European Union. The 2013 Global Corruption Barometer indicated that 49 percent of respondents believed that the level of corruption remained the same in Bulgaria over the preceding two years.\n\nIn the 2016 Corruption Perceptions Index, Bulgaria ranked 75th out of 176 countries (a score of 42 out of 100). The lower the number, the more perceived corruption exists in a country.\n\nIn the CPI, lower-ranked countries experience \"untrustworthy and badly functioning public institutions like the police and judiciary.\" Often, anti-corruption laws are ignored: \"People frequently face situations of bribery and extortion, rely on basic services that have been undermined by the misappropriation of funds, and confront official indifference when seeking redress from authorities that are on the take.\"\n\nA 2014 study by Transparency International indicated that lobbying in Bulgaria is mainly unregulated and happens behind closed doors. \"The report \"Lobbying in Bulgaria: Interests, Influence, Politics\" shows that there are significant deficits in the transparency, integrity and equality of access regarding influence over public decision-making in the country.\" The study used a framework from a project called \"lifting the lid on lobbying\", and Bulgaria received a \"paltry overall score of only 25 percent.\" For transparency, Bulgaria received a score of 13 percent; for integrity, 25 percent, and free quality of access 38 percent. By 2014, four legislative proposals had been introduced in Bulgaria's parliament but none of the bills passed.\n\nDuring the 2014 parliamentary election, Transparency International Bulgaria's telephone helpline received 202 complaints. One of the top three complaints concerned vote-buying. A pub owner in a small village offered Roma voters to $55 to vote a certain way, with the money paid only if the political party in question won. Some 480,000 illegally printed ballots were discovered at a printing house in Kostinbrod the day before the May 2013 parliamentary election. The blank ballots might have been prepared to manipulate the vote. The owner of the printing house, a municipal councilor from GERB, claimed that the ballots were technical spoilage.\n\nThe Bulgarian Supreme Judicial Council, responsible for personnel policy in the country's judiciary, has a high level of legislative autonomy. It has been involved in a number of scandals, suggesting that it has been subject to external influences on its decisions. Recently, the Council of Europe expressed concern about the lack of judicial independence and the compromised separation of powers in the country. The Venice Commission has raised concern about the Soviet model of Bulgaria's Prosecution which turns it into \"a source of corruption and blackmail.\" Civil activists have demanded the resignation of Bulgaria's General Prosecutor Sotir Tsatsarov for a long time due to his alleged involvement in high-profile corruption cases. \n\nGovernment procurement is an area of significant corruption risk. Many of the public contracts are awarded to a few politically connected companies amid widespread irregularities, procedure violations and tailor-made award criteria. Ognyan Gerdzhikov's interim government found widespread violations in defence procurement after it took over from the Second Borisov Government in 2017; 45 out of 82 defence ministry contracts signed the previous year were in breach of public procurement laws and regulations. Fraud was strongly suspected in nine of the procedures. Public tenders in energy and infrastructure are particularly associated with alleged siphoning of funds from EU and state coffers. \n\nAn estimated 10 billion leva ($5.99 billion) of state budget and European cohesion funds are spent on public tenders each year; nearly 14 billion ($8.38 billion) were spent on public contracts in 2017 alone.\n\nIn 2014, bank runs on Corporate Commercial Bank and First Investment Bank \"focused new attention on the fragile economy and dysfunctional politics that are hobbling Bulgaria.\" The bank runs destabilized international investment and the business community's confidence in Bulgaria. The Corporate Commercial Bank run was provoked by its prosecution, and the bank was seized by the Bulgarian central bank. First Investment Bank remained open while Corporate Commercial Bank remained closed.\n\nCorruption has resulted in significant economic losses and underperformance in Bulgaria. Since its accession to the EU in 2007, it has remained the Union's poorest country with a per-capita GDP of $16,300, less than half the European average. By 2014, the Bulgarian government was accused of mismanaging the economy so badly that the European Union froze billions of euros in aid. Between 2008 and 2018, foreign direct investment collapsed, dropping from 28% to 2% of GDP, or $9 billion to just $1.13 billion. The cabinets of Boyko Borisov have been in power through most of the decade, establishing a system of impunity for high-profile crime and favoritism of certain local companies. Approximately 22% of GDP are lost to corruption each year, and a number of major foreign companies, like ČEZ Group, have withdrawn from Bulgaria.\n\nCorruption is a source of profound public discontent. Corruption and government inaction against convicted Roma criminal Kiril Rashkov sparked the 2011 anti-Roma riots. The 2013 Bulgarian protests against the first Borisov cabinet spread to over 30 cities and were marked by seven self-immolations, five of which were fatal. The protests, directed against corruption, poverty and political parties, led to the resignation of the First Borisov Government. Mass demonstrations continued against the government of Plamen Oresharski, which also resigned following the appointment of Delyan Peevski as head of the State Agency for National Security. Another wave of demonstrations occurred in November 2018 against low wages, as well as fuel price and vehicle tax hikes. Some 20 cities saw protests demanding the resignation of the Third Borisov Government; several major roads were blocked.\n\nAccording to Reporters Without Borders, the press industry in Bulgaria is rife with \"corruption and collusion between media, politicians, and oligarchs\". Media ownership is opaque, intransparent and concentrated in the hands of a few owners, despite a superficial diversity in ownership. Upon joining the European Union in 2007, Bulgaria ranked 35th on the Press Freedom Index, alongside France. It has since tumbled to 111th, by far the worst press freedom performer of any EU member and candidate state. More than 90% of Bulgarian journalists, as polled by the Association of European Journalists, have reported frequent interference with their work. Lawmakers have gone as far as threatening TV journalists with sacking during a live broadcast. The media environment has been further degraded by EU funds diverted by the government to sympathetic media outlets. In 2018, two journalists were detained and later released by police while investigating a massive scheme to drain EU funds by a company associated with a number of high-profile government procurement projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "37630153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37630153", "title": "Crime in Baltimore", "text": "Crime in Baltimore\n\nBaltimore, Maryland, U.S. is infamous for its very high crime rate, including a violent crime rate that ranks high above the national average. Violent crime spiked in 2015 after the death of Freddie Gray on April 19, 2015, which touched off riots and an increase in murders. The city recorded a total of 344 homicides in 2015, a number second only to the number recorded in 1993 when the population was 100,000 higher. \n\nIn 2011, Baltimore police reported 196 homicides, the lowest number since recording 197 homicides in 1978. That number is far lower than the peak homicide count of 353 in 1993. The drop in 2011 was significant, when measured by the number of homicides, but the homicide rate was in the same range as the late 1980s when the city population was 130,000 higher. City leaders credited their sustained focus on repeat violent offenders and an increased community engagement for the continued drop, reflecting a nationwide decline in crime. However, Baltimore's decline was short-lived, as a reported 219 and 235 homicides were committed in 2012 and 2013, respectively. Baltimore's jump in homicides in 2013 defied regional and national trends.\n\nViolent crime spiked in 2015 after the death of Freddie Gray on April 19, 2015, which touched off riots and a crime wave that has resulted in an increase in murders. The city recorded a total of 344 homicides in 2015, a number second only to the number recorded in 1993 when the population was 100,000 higher. This was the highest murder rate on a per capita basis ever recorded. Baltimore had seen 211 murders as of August 19, 2015, which equaled the total number of murders that occurred in Baltimore in all of 2014. On July 10, 2015 Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake fired Police Commissioner Anthony Batts, saying his presence had become a distraction in a city that needs to focus on ending a dramatic spike in homicides. The city has taken steps to quell the increased violence by seeking assistance from the Federal Bureau of Investigations and other federal agencies, including embedding FBI agents in the City's police homicide unit. On November 13, 2015 the number of murders for the year reached (and the next day surpassed) 300 for the first time since 1999. \n\nIn an interview in \"The Guardian\", on November 2, 2017, David Simon, himself a former \"The Baltimore Sun\" police reporter, ascribed the most recent surge in murders to the high-profile decision by Baltimore state’s attorney, Marilyn Mosby, to charge six city police officers following the death of Freddie Gray after he fell into a coma while in police custody in April 2015. “What Mosby basically did was send a message to the Baltimore police department: ‘I’m going to put you in jail for making a bad arrest.’ So officers figured it out: ‘I can go to jail for making the wrong arrest, so I’m not getting out of my car to clear a corner,’ and that’s exactly what happened post-Freddie Gray.” In Baltimore arrest numbers have plummeted from more than 40,000 in 2014, the year before Freddie Gray’s death and the subsequent charges against the officers, to about 18,000 in 2017 (primo November). This happened even as homicides soared from 211 in 2014 to 344 in 2015 – an increase of 63%.\n\nBaltimore's level of violent crime is much higher than the national average. In 2009, a total of 1,318,398 violent crimes were reported nationwide across the United States, equivalent to a rate of 0.4 incidents per 100 people.\n\nHomicides in Baltimore are heavily concentrated within a small number of high-poverty neighborhoods. According to a \"Baltimore Sun\" investigation, around 80% of the city's gun homicides are committed in 25% of the city's neighborhoods. For the past few years, the rate of lethal shootings has been increasing in Baltimore and at least 10 other cities, such as Washington, D.C.; Chicago; and Milwaukee. , the Coldstream Homestead Montebello neighborhood in Northeast Baltimore was the city's most lethal neighborhood, with an average of one out of every two shootings being fatal; the citywide average is one in three.\n\nGang-related crimes are usually clustered in drug territories and mostly affect people involved in drug dealing, particularly narcotics, and rival gangs. Sometimes as part of a gang initiation, recruits are expected to rob people who are not involved in drug trafficking, such as in tourist areas and Baltimore's wealthier neighborhoods. \n\nSandtown-Winchester, Baltimore is one of West Baltimore's most blighted and problematic communities. In the second half of the 20th century, Sandtown experienced economic depression, housing abandonment, crime, and racial rioting in 1968. Sandtown-Winchester was also the home of Freddie Gray and the scene of his arrest. Following his death, the area was hard hit by riots including the looting and burning of a CVS drug store off the north-east corner of Sandtown-Winchester at the intersection of Pennsylvania and W. North Avenue.\n\nThough the area was once considered middle-class, Berea has in the last century experienced economic depression, housing abandonment, crime, and racial rioting. Its residents are largely lower income African Americans. The neighborhood served as a filming location for the Baltimore-based HBO television drama, \"The Wire\".\n\nThe Baltimore Police Department is staffed by nearly 4,000 civilian and sworn personnel. These include dispatchers, crime lab technicians, chaplains and unarmed auxiliary police officers. During Martin O'Malley's administration as mayor, the department had become 43% African American.\n\nIn 2003, the FBI identified irregularities in the number of rapes reported, which was confirmed by then-Mayor Martin O'Malley. The number of homicides in 2005 appeared to exhibit discrepancies as well. Former police commissioner Kevin P. Clark said in an interview that the administration suppressed corrections to its crime reports; however, many of the charges made by the police commissioner now appear to have been politically motivated. The veracity of crime statistics reported by the Baltimore Police Department once again came under scrutiny in 2006, this time from Maryland legislators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24074815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24074815", "title": "Dr. B. C. Roy Award", "text": "Dr. B. C. Roy Award\n\nBidhan Chandra Roy Award was instituted in 1962 in memory of B. C. Roy by Medical Council of India. The Award is given annually in each of the following categories: Statesmanship of the Highest Order in India, Medical man-cum-Statesman, Eminent Medical Person, Eminent person in Philosophy, Eminent person in Science and Eminent person in Arts. It is presented by President of India in New Delhi on July 1, National Doctors' Day.\n\nIt was first awarded in 1973 to Sandip Mukerjee, FRCS, of Willingdon Hospital (now Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital), New Delhi, by then President VV Giri.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEminent Medical Person:\n\nEminent Medical Teacher: \nBest talents in encouraging the development of specialities in different branches in Medicine:\nOutstanding services in the field of Sociomedical Relief:\n\nEminent Medical Person:\n\nEminent Medical Teacher:\nBest talents in encouraging the development of specialities in different branches in Medicine:\nOutstanding service in the field of Socio Medical Relief:\nAid or Assistance to Research Project:\n\nEminent Medical Person:\n\nEminent Person - Literature:\n\nEminent Medical Teacher:\n\nBest Talents in Encouraging the Development of Specialties in Different Branches in Medicines:\n\nOutstanding Service in the field of Socio Medical Relief:\n\nAid or Assistance to Research Project:\n\n\n2018\n\nEminent Medical Person:\n\nH S Shashidhar , MBBS , MS\n\nThe Medical Director,Manasa group of hospitals Karnataka.\n\nOutstanding service in the field of socio medical relief\n\nHe is currently 2nd term Member of Parliament from Ahmedabad West constituency Gujarat.\n\n"}
{"id": "35247498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35247498", "title": "Fania language", "text": "Fania language\n\nFania (Fagnan) is an Adamawa language of Chad. The northern and southern dialects are rather divergent.\n"}
{"id": "12330292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12330292", "title": "Global warming game", "text": "Global warming game\n\nA global warming game, also known as a climate game or a climate change game, is a type of serious game. As a serious game, it attempts to simulate and explore real life issues to educate players through an interactive experience. The issues particular to a global warming video game are usually energy efficiency and the implementation of green technology as ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and thus counteract global warming. Global warming games also include more traditional board games, video games, as well as other varieties.\n\nThe primary objectives of global warming games are twofold:\n\n\nThe first objective is universal to global warming games. The issues surrounding global warming commonly included are emissions and the emission of other greenhouse gases, the melting of the polar ice caps, sea-level rise, natural disasters and massive changes to lifestyles caused by global warming. Games that do not go beyond the objective of knowledge and familiarity tend to be designed for younger audiences. Games designed for young children often only have the goal to engage the children enough to excite their attention to focus on these basic concepts.\n\nThe second objective is integrated into games in a variety of ways. Sometimes demonstrating the challenges of confronting global warming are put directly into the style of gameplay, e.g. to demonstrate the difficulty of international cooperation, players are made to represent different countries and are required to negotiate to fulfill game objectives. Other times, the game includes the challenges as a part of the mechanics, e.g. building 'green factories' is more expensive than building 'black factories.'\n\nThe final objective is shared by the most interactive and engaging global warming games. Developing solutions to global warming includes two major types of response: mitigation of emissions and global warming's effects, and adaptation to live sustainably in a new climate. Typically players are given a variety of different options so that they may come up with a number of different creative solutions. Sometimes players are even allowed freedom to create their own unique options to integrate into their strategy.\n\nThe Dynamic Climate Change Simulator (DCCS) provides a simplified model of climate change to be used as a tool for the study of dynamic decision making, and to give participants a basic understanding of the tradeoffs involved in responses to climate change. The participant's goal in DCCS is to maintain the carbon dioxide concentration stock within an acceptable range around the goal value of 938 GtC. The participant decides on emissions of two different types: deforestation and burning of fossil fuels. The participant sets the fossil fuel and deforestation emissions. The DCCS moves autonomously by a number of time steps to a future year and calculates carbon dioxide concentrations and absorptions from making the emissions. The software is available to download for free to academics, subject to the attached license agreement.\n\nLogiCity is an interactive Flash-based virtual-reality based computer game, produced by Logicom and The National Energy Foundation, an English charity. The game is set in a 3D virtual city with five main activities where players are set the task of reducing the carbon footprint of an average resident. The activities comprise:\n\nAs players work their way through the game they attempt to cut their carbon footprint from a typical English figure of 5.5 tonnes to a level of 2.0 tonnes. At the end of the game they are taken forward to 2066 to see if they have done enough to save England from the worst problems associated with global climate change. The game's conclusion and focus on 2066 is designed to bring home to players the reality of the changes they may face in their lifetime.\n\nThe game is part of Defra’s (Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) Climate Challenge programme to increase public awareness of Climate Change across the country. The National Energy Foundation, Logicom and British Gas also provided support to the game's development. \"LogiCity\" is designed to be used both by individuals and in an educational context. It is stated to be suitable for most children from the ages of 10 or 11 upward (English KS3+), although the main target group is young adults aged 16–26.\n\nThe game can either be played online or distributed across a network from a CD-ROM. There are no licensing implications as it has been publicly funded, although all PCs being used for the game do need to meet certain technical requirements (notably being PCs not Macs, and using Internet Explorer as a browser), and may require additional software plug-ins to be downloaded (a VRML viewer and a recent version of Flash player).\n\nThere has been some criticism that the game is only really applicable to England, due to limitations imposed by its funders, so that it is unlikely to appeal widely in North America. The look and feel of the game concentrates on a near photo-realism for buildings, but the player is disembodied and lacks an avatar. Firefox users are unable to run the game unless they switch to Internet Explorer, and some users have commented that download times for each module can be up to a minute, although this may be overcome by using the CD-ROM implementation. Logicity was also made available via a cover disk on PC Gamer magazine.\n\nThe \"Stabilization Wedge Game\", or what is commonly referred to as simply the 'Wedge Game', is a serious game produced by Princeton University's Carbon Mitigation Initiative. The goal of the game creators, Stephen Pacala and Robert H. Socolow, is to demonstrate through this game that global warming is a problem which can be solved by implementing today's technologies to reduce emissions. The object of the game is to keep the next fifty years of emissions flat, using seven wedges from a variety of different strategies which fit into the stabilization triangle.\n\n\"Climate Challenge\" is a Flash-based simulation game produced by the BBC and developed by Red Redemption Ltd. Players manage the economy and resources of the 'European Nations' as its president, while reducing emissions of to combat climate change and managing crises. Climate Challenge is an environmental serious game, designed to give players an understanding of the science behind climate change, as well as the options available to policy makers and the difficulties in their implementation.\n\nThe Climate Change Game is played by one or two people (sharing the Mouse). Each player is the leader of his/her country, hoping to be re-elected while trying to cope with the effects of climate change and, hopefully, reverse it.\nYou'll make Decisions to change the energies you use or use them in a different way, researching topic in the Glossary. You'll also answer Questions on Climate Change and respond to Natural Events (such as volcanic eruptions) which affect Climate, People's Choices (unpredictable, popular human actions which impact Greenhouse Gas emissions and tax revenues), and economic or political decisions by other countries that affect the level of greenhouse gas emissions.\nYou win “The Climate Change Game” – and your delighted citizens re-elect you - if you can help reduce global Greenhouse Gas emissions to the level required by the Kyoto Protocol AND are not spending more money than people pay in taxes, AND maintain Voter Support of at least 51 percent AND Earth’s Temperature is “comfortable\" for life.\n\n\"V GAS\" is a 3D serious game in which players explore and live in a house that is built to mirror their own. Players begin the game by building a profile including variables such as water use and transportation behaviors, heating and cooling practices, food purchases, and electrical appliance usage. Once the profile has been built, the player can begin the simulation which introduces different scenarios ranging from heat waves to mad cow disease. The player adjusts their lifestyle according to how they would react to these events in real life. All the while, the players' decisions are being measured and recorded, and their overall contribution to NO, , and CH to the atmosphere is measured.\n\n\"Keep Cool\" is a board game created by Klaus Eisenack and Gerhard Petschel-Held of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and published by the German company Spieltrieb in November 2004. The game can be classified as both a serious game and a global warming game. In Keep Cool, up to six players representing the world's countries compete to balance their own economic interests and the world's climate in a game of negotiation. The goal of the game as stated by the authors is to \"promote the general knowledge on climate change and the understanding of difficulties and obstacles, and \"to make it available for a board game and still retain the major elements and processes.\"\n\nThe European Climate Forum and Munich Re have launched a climate game called Winds of Change, which is a board game for 2-4 persons. The game illustrates the climate challenge in a playful way and it can be used in team learning, schools, focus groups, etc. It includes several features, which are hotly debated in climate policy-making. These include among others: investments in R&D, technological learning and innovation, de-carbonizing the economy, ocean uptake of , the 2 degrees limit, and insurance against extreme weather events.\n\nBerlin-based Andrea Meyer, game designer with an environmental background published this card game in her company BeWitched-Spiele in 2009. Playing the card game for 2-4 persons ages 12 and up takes 30–40 minutes. The game has players collect groups of like-minded countries in order to hold conferences. The bigger the conference the better. Country cards show indicators on -emissions per capita as well as figures on consequences of extreme weather events (deaths and damages). While no knowledge is needed to play the game, players will learn a bit about who is causing climate change and who is suffering from it. On the game side, Climate-Poker requires bluffing and closely watching what the other players are aiming at. the 2 degrees limit, and insurance against. The figures in the game stem from the World Resources Institutes' Climate Analysis Indicators Tool (CAIT) and from Munich Re.\n\nThe online climate game CEO2 from World Wide Fund for Nature and Allianz is a rather complex simulation that allows one player to run a company over a period of 20 years. Players can choose from four industries (automobile, chemicals, insurance, utility). They have a limited budget and can choose from a variety of business decision like investing in smart grids or carbon capture and storage (utility). Their target is to reduce CO2 emissions significantly until 2030 without going bankrupt. Advisors (environmentalist, investors, researcher) offer help but their suggestions can be one-sided. The game is based on the RECIPE study from the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research.\n\n\"Fate of the World\" is a 2011 Microsoft Windows and Mac OS game developed and published by Red Redemption, the developers of \"Climate Challenge\". It focuses on global governance, with goals ranging from improving living conditions in Africa, to preventing catastrophic climate change, to exacerbating it. It is based around an intricate model of populations, economic production and greenhouse emissions based on real-world data.\n\nPlantville is \"an innovative, educational and fun way for Siemens to engage customers, employees, prospects, students and the general public while driving awareness of Siemens technologies and brand.\" The game enables players to improve the health of their plants by learning about and applying industrial and infrastructure products and solutions from Siemens. Gamers will be measured on a number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), including safety, on time delivery, quality, energy management and employee satisfaction.\n\nThe Xbox 360 Games for Change Challenge is a collaborative effort between Microsoft and Games for Change (G4C), a subgroup of the Serious Games Initiative. The challenge is a worldwide competition to develop a global warming game with Microsoft's XNA Game Studio Express software. Winners will be awarded scholarships from Games for Change and Microsoft, and the winning games will have the possibility of being available for download on the Xbox LIVE Arcade service. The Xbox 360 Games for Change Challenge has been cast by Microsoft as a \"socially-minded\" initiative, joining the larger serious games movement. Suzanne Seggerman, a co-founder of Games for Change, shared these comments in a radio interview:\n"}
{"id": "12820174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12820174", "title": "GroundReport", "text": "GroundReport\n\nGroundReport was a citizen journalism website that enabled contributors to publish news reports and videos. The site was owned by a nonprofit organization called Open News Platform until mid-2017. Since the site did not attract enough donations and advertisement revenue to sustain it, Open News Platform sold the GroundReport.com domain and platform to Search-Ladder, LLC in 2017. Search-Ladder is a digital marketing agency. The sale was completed in May 2017.\n\nJournalist Rachel Sterne started GroundReport.com in 2006. She wanted to make such a site after her experience reporting on Darfur as an intern at the United Nations. To run GroundReport, Sterne started Open News Platform, a not-for-profit 501(c)(3) organization incorporated in New York. In 2008, she Sterne expressed a wish to expand GroundReport with regional editions. In 2009, \"BusinessWeek\" named Sterne one of \"America's Most Promising Social Entrepreneurs\".\n\nGroundReport used a Wikipedia-like model of volunteer editors and community feedback, combined with a star rating system. Contributors chose from a range of Creative Commons licenses. On September 17, 2008, select contributors were given the ability to revise content in any article. In May 2009, GroundReport implemented a vetting system that requires review and approval of every contributor. GroundReport has a strict copyright policy and distributed vetting system. Contributors who plagiarized or posted copyright-infringing material were banned from the site.\n\nAmong the news stories covered by GroundReport's contributors were the United States presidential election of 2008, the 2008 Mumbai attacks, the 2009 Iranian presidential election protests, and the aftermath of the 2010 Haiti earthquake.\n\nAccording to \"Adweek\", GroundReport received 29,187 unique visitors in December 2010, down from 60,802 monthly unique visitors earlier that year. The \"Adweek\" journalist commented: \"Even during major events, GroundReport's influence was very small. As the BBC News reported in an article on Dec. 1, 2008, following terror attacks in Mumbai that had been covered on the site, 'it is worth noting that the original story on the GroundReport Web site has attracted fewer than 200 viewers so far, whereas untold millions have watched television reports in India and around the world.'\" GroundReport's content was syndicated to Google News.\n\nIn July 2015, volunteers from Injustice Anywhere began to help with restructuring, and a redesign of GroundReport.com launched on September 22, 2015.\n\nIn June 2008, GroundReport started using the YouTube API for its on-demand video publishing. Shortly thereafter, GroundReport became an official partner channel, and a flagship participant in their newly launched 'reporter' category. Among YouTube's official Beijing Olympics content partners, including the Associated Press, Reuters and \"The New York Times,\" GroundReport was the only citizen news source.\n\nIn the livestreaming space, GroundReport is a featured flagship channel on broadcast platform Livestream. GroundReport's live video coverage of the Democratic Debates, Aspen Institute and panel discussions with leaders like Arianna Huffington and Madeleine Albright has been featured on \"Huffington Post,\" \"Salon,\" \"Silicon Alley Insider\" and TechCrunch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37296469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37296469", "title": "Hakö language", "text": "Hakö language\n\nHakö is an Austronesian language of Buka Island, Papua New Guinea.\n\n"}
{"id": "37620041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37620041", "title": "Hipster racism", "text": "Hipster racism\n\nHipster racism is engaging in behaviors typically regarded as racist and defending them as being performed ironically or satirically. Rachel Dubrofsky and Megan W. Wood have described it as being supposedly \"too hip and self-aware to actually mean the racist stuff one expresses\". This might include wearing blackface and other performances of stereotyped African Americans, use of the word \"nigger\", and appropriating cultural dress. Talia Meer argues that hipster racism is rooted in what she calls \"hipster exceptionalism\", meaning \"the idea that something ordinarily offensive or prejudiced is miraculously transformed into something clever, funny and socially relevant, by the assertion that said ordinarily offensive thing is ironic or satirical.\" As Leslie A. Hahner and Scott J. Varda described it, \"those participating in acts of hipster racism understand those acts as racist when practiced by others, but rationalize their own racist performances through a presumed exceptionalism.\"\n\nCarmen Van Kerckhove coined the term \"hipster racism\" in the article \"The 10 Biggest Race and Pop Culture Trends of 2006\", citing \"Kill Whitey\" Parties and \"Blackface Jesus\" as examples. \"Kill Whitey\" parties, as described by \"The Washington Post\", were parties held for hipsters in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, by Jeremy Parker, a disc jockey who goes by the name The Pumpsta, in an attempt to \"kill the whiteness inside\". These were parties in which white hipsters mocked the black hip-hop industry, and essentially a part of African-American culture, for the sake of irony. Van Kerckhove also regarded the use of blackface by white people and the normalization and acceptance of such use from other individuals as hipster racism. Van Kerckhove contends, quoting Debra Dickerson, that the use of blackface by individuals such as these was an effort to satirize political correctness and racism. \n\nMatt Pearce of the \"Los Angeles Times\" characterized the appropriation of cultural artifacts as fashion without recognizing the significance of the article as hipster racism. Examples include wearing Native American headdresses, or more specifically, Urban Outfitters selling clothes with Navajo and other Aboriginal and African tribal prints without giving tribute, acknowledgement, or compensation. Television producer Lena Dunham was described as a hipster racist when Dunham issued a statement defending a male colleague who was accused of rape by a woman of mixed race. \n\n"}
{"id": "26451864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26451864", "title": "Hot and Hot Fish Club", "text": "Hot and Hot Fish Club\n\nThe Hot and Hot Fish Club, also known as Hot and Hot Fish Club of All Saints Parish, was a gentlemen's club in the 19th century in South Carolina dedicated to epicurean pursuits: gourmet foods, strong drinks and festive times. It started after the American Revolutionary War (early 19th century) and ended during the American Civil War (1864–65).\n\nRobert Francis Withers Allston, ex-governor of South Carolina in the 19th century, writes at the beginning of the \"Rules and History of the Hot and Hot Fish Club\" booklet that he recalls as a boy of fifteen in 1816 that he would visit his older married sister (Elizabeth) in Murrells Inlet near Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. Her husband (John H. Tucker) was a sportsman that would hunt deer and fish in the nearby Waccamaw River. When Allston visited he always enjoyed \"club day\", which was Friday during the summer months. On that day he would fish with Mr. Tucker.\n\nThe members of the Fish Club then, as Allston remembers, were\n\n\nAll these above were Allston's close friends. It was rumored that John Green could eat a \"peck of fish\" during this meal. He would put the fish into one side of his mouth and at the same time spit out the bones of the previous fish from the other side. The exaggerated rumor went on that all the while he would \"drink a quart of brandy!\"\nHe was known to say with a southern accent:\n\nThe main dinner consisted of beef, ham, local game and rice - besides the catch of the day! It was an elaborate potluck, where each member would catch enough to contribute to the dinner and for his boat hands. Each member also was to bring some kind of side dish (i.e. bread, salad, pudding) for distribution among the other attending members. The fish caught for the day's event were bass, sheephead, hogfish and varieties of panfish.\n\nThe main meal for the day's social event was served sometime after 1 in the afternoon. At that time the President of the social club would raise a flag that signaled the fishing boats to come in. When the boats arrived they would survey the fish caught, discuss the variety, and give a description of the catch to the gathered crowd. The prized catch was the hogfish of North Carolina and Virginia.\n\nThe boat hands that were elected to clean the fish had a procedure to follow. They were\n\nThey would use these fish caught for meals at the Fish Club that day. After the cleaning of the first set of fish caught, the fishing boats were put back into the nearby stream and continued fishing. They would arrive back then later, one by one, to deliver whatever choice fish they caught meanwhile. They were in turn cleaned and prepared for the main event meal that was commencing. Often the best fish came in last and those that knew this saved their palates for these later fish in the second course that were \"hot and hot.\"\n\nIn 1816 the \"club-house\" was located within fifty feet of the inlet waters on the north end of \"Drunken Jack\", a stunted tree island on Murrells inlet at the southern area of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. The first club house was damaged during a storm, so was rebuilt on the mainland. Major Ward (member in 1816) had salt vats on a section of a \"clam-bank\" land area, where the second one was built. Once the new expanded club house opened up there were a set of new members added. At this time the future South Carolina governor, Robert Francis Withers Allston, had joined the club. John Walter Phillips was an honorary member.\nA third \"club-house\" was at the residence of Dr. Post. The doctor later converted this area to a church. The Club was then set up in a temporary \"wall tent\" furnished by General J. W. Allston. Later a fourth permanent club house was built on the main land at the causeway owned by Dr. Hasell. Additional members then were Dr. William Magill, Dr. William A. Norris, and occasionally John Izard Middleton, Dr. Andrew, Dr. B.B. Smith, and John Ashe Alston. Several years later on September twenty-seventh 1822 this clubhouse was washed away. At this time a grant of about ten acres was given by Col. T. Pinckney, at \"B. F. Dunkin's Midway plantation\" (named because it was halfway between Horry county line and the tip of the peninsula). It was near a convenient crossing place between Wachesaw and Fraser's Point. Here a comfortable two room clubhouse was built by the members as the fifth and final permanent structure. It had a fireplace with an excellent chimney. Also the clubhouse had an attached ten-pin bowling alley, a billiard table, and a race course. The built-in kitchen was adequate to cook all the fish necessary for all the members on their yearly feasts. Joshua John Ward, son of Major Ward, donated a billiard table for entertainment.\n\nIt was in this fifth and last clubhouse that a set of Rules was developed by the members. The membership at that time was fifty dollars. The roll of living members that signed and adhered to a written set of rules developed in 1845 are below. The purpose of the Club was stated as being for \"convival and social intercourse.\" The members that joined the Fish Club later after its founding in the early 19th century to the American Civil War were generally sons or relatives of the original members.\n\nRobert Francis Withers Allston became governor of South Carolina on 21 April 1857. The Club, with about forty members, put on an elaborate dinner in his honor of becoming elected. It also happened to be his birthday!\n\nThe written rules below were established in 1845 and signed by all members.\n\n1. \"Time and Place of Meeting\"\n\n2. \"Admission of Members\"\n\n3. \"Quorum\"\n\n4. \"Officers\"\n\n5. \"Duties of the President \"\n\n6. \"Duties of the Vice President\"\n\n7. \"Duties of Secretary and Treasurer\"\n\n8. \" Duties of Members \"\n\n9. \"Duty of Certain Members\"\n\n10. \"Duty of each Member in Rotation\"\n\n11. PRIZE RULE\n\n12. \"Child\"\n\n13. \"Marriage\"\n\n14. \" State Office \"\n\n15. \" Contribution \"\n\n16. \"Discussions \"\n\n17. \" Of Members absent from the Parish \" (passed, July 1860)\n\n18. \"Changing Rules \"\n\nBirmingham, Alabama chef and restaurateur Chris Hastings named his restaurant in honor of the Hot and Hot Fish Club, of which his ancestor was a member.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30249518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30249518", "title": "Human trafficking in the Gambia", "text": "Human trafficking in the Gambia\n\nHuman trafficking in the Gambia covers ongoing activities in trafficking women and children in the Gambia as forced labor and prostitution.\n\nThe Gambia is a source, transit, and destination country for this type of exploitation. Within the Gambia, women and girls and, to a lesser extent, boys are trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation, as well as for domestic servitude. For generations, parents sent their sons to live with Koranic teachers or marabouts, who more often forced children to beg than ensured their progress in religious studies. However, this practice is declining as the security forces now routinely interrogate the marabout of any beggar they find in the streets. Some observers noted only a small number of trafficking victims, but others see the Gambia's porous borders as an active transit zone for women, girls, and boys from West African countries – mainly Senegal, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Ghana, Nigeria, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, and Benin – who are recruited for exploitation in the sex trade, in particular to meet the demands of European tourists seeking sex with children. Most trafficking offenders in the Gambia are probably individuals who operate independently of international syndicates. The government's Department of Social Welfare and Tourism Security Unit are compiling electronic databases and conventional lists of trafficking cases, offenders, and victims, which may soon provide a clearer picture of how traffickers operate and how they differ from the migrant smugglers whose cases are now filling the country's courts.\n\nThe Government of the Gambia does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so, despite limited resources. At the highest level, the government acknowledges that trafficking exists in the country. The Gambian government lacks funding and resources to fight trafficking, though it continued to monitor and evaluate the trafficking problem in the country. Every law enforcement agency has anti-trafficking or child protection units. In July 2009, the government took an important step to increase efficiency in law enforcement by adopting a biometric national identity card system called GAMBIS.\n\nU.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2 Watchlist\" in 2017.\n\nThe Government of the Gambia demonstrated limited progress in its anti-human trafficking law enforcement efforts, resulting in one conviction of a trafficking offender during the reporting period. The Gambia prohibits all forms of trafficking through its October 2007 Trafficking in Persons Act. The law does not differentiate between sexual exploitation and labor exploitation, and prescribes penalties of from 15 years' to life imprisonment, penalties which are sufficiently stringent and commensurate with those prescribed for other serious crimes, such as rape. The Gambia's 2005 Children's Act also prohibits all forms of child trafficking, prescribing a maximum penalty of life imprisonment. In July 2009, a Banjul court convicted a Gambian man of trafficking two children and sentenced him to two years' imprisonment. In June 2009, authorities investigated reports that a group of girls from Ghana had been trafficked to a fishing settlement called \"Ghana Town\" for exploitation in prostitution. An interagency team of investigators visited the site and found the reports to be inaccurate. The government did not provide specialized anti-trafficking training for law enforcement and immigration officials during the reporting period.\n\nThe government improved its victim protection efforts during the reporting period. It did not undertake proactive efforts to identify foreign trafficking victims. The government continued to operate a 24-hour shelter, made up of three units with accommodations for 48 victims. The shelter did not receive any trafficked children during 2009. The government maintained and funded a 24-hour hotline number that directly connected callers with two dedicated officers of the Department of Social Welfare. The line was created as a family assistance tool, but was also advertised as an available resource for victims of trafficking. The government maintained a drop-in center for street children, including victims of trafficking, and it provided both the shelter and the drop-in center with an annual budget of about $11,500, in addition to contributions from UNICEF and a faith-based NGO. The government also provided food, medical care, and counseling to all trafficking victims, whether nationals or foreigners. Victims could obtain emergency temporary residence visas under the Trafficking in Persons Act, though none did so during the year.\n\nThe government did not identify or assist with the repatriation of any Gambian victims of transnational trafficking during the year. Under the law, however, repatriated nationals were eligible for government-provided care and rehabilitation measures. Gambian authorities identified at least three people that were trafficking victims during the reporting period – two young girls, whose trafficker was prosecuted and imprisoned in July 2009, and a Nigerian girl who reported her trafficking plight to the Child Protection Alliance and the Police Child Welfare Officer in October. The two children were returned to their parents, but the Nigerian girl disappeared. There was no formal system for proactively identifying victims of trafficking, but law enforcement and border control officers who were alert to trafficking situations more intensively questioned adults who arrived at the border with children. There were not enough active trafficking cases to make an assessment about respect for victims' rights, but if trafficking was suspected or identified, Social Welfare would likely have interceded and no victim would have been prosecuted or fined.\n\nTraining conducted throughout the year attempted to give security officers the ability to identify and assist potential trafficking victims. There was only one reported case of a victim assisting the authorities in investigation. The government undertook efforts to train and further educate officials in recognizing human trafficking situations and victims. During the year, the government designated officers within each major police station to be responsible for assisting and counseling any potential trafficking victims. However, the government provided no information on such training for Gambian embassies and consulates in foreign countries.\n\nThe Government of the Gambia sustained moderate efforts to prevent trafficking through awareness-raising during the reporting period. The government previously supported anti-trafficking and information campaigns, most conducted by NGOs, but reported few such campaigns in 2009. Government-controlled media continued to publicize the dangers of trafficking. There was no comprehensive analysis of emigration and immigration patterns for evidence of trafficking. In December 2009, the government dissolved its multiagency National Task Force for Combating Trafficking in Persons and allocated approximately $111,000 to finance the establishment of the new National Agency to Combat Trafficking in Persons, which was designated to implement the national anti-trafficking plan of action. The government's Tourism Security Unit (TSU) effectively patrolled the Tourism Development Area – the zone most frequented by tourists – to combat child sex tourism and reduce the demand for commercial sex acts. The TSU continued to enforce a 2005 ban on unattended children visiting the tourist resort areas and remitted them to the custody of the Department of Social Welfare. Police sometimes arrested persons suspected of engaging in prostitution. However, these measures were not strong deterrents, and reflected the common perception that prostitution was meeting the needs of tourists who drove a major part of the country's economy. In March 2009, the government convicted a New Zealand national of child pornography and sentenced him to one year's imprisonment; he was acquitted of child defilement charges. Child sex tourism was a problem in the Gambia, but the authorities did not report any prosecution or convictions of child sex tourists during the reporting period. The Gambian government provided its troops with antihuman trafficking training, including warnings against committing any immoral behavior that may bring their force into disrepute, prior to their deployment abroad on international peacekeeping missions.\n"}
{"id": "8242212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8242212", "title": "Imperial Regalia of Brazil", "text": "Imperial Regalia of Brazil\n\nThe Imperial Regalia of Brazil consists of the Imperial Crowns: the Crown of Pedro II and the Crown of Pedro I; the Imperial Sceptre; the Imperial Orb; the Imperial Sword; and jewelry belonging to the Emperors and Empresses of Brazil. They were used until the abolition of the Brazilian monarchy in 1889. Most of the jewels have been displayed at the Imperial Museum of Brazil in Petrópolis and at the National Museum of Brazil in Rio de Janeiro since 1943. Other items are stored at the National Treasury in Brasília.\n"}
{"id": "49213290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49213290", "title": "Joshua Carroll", "text": "Joshua Carroll\n\nJoshua Carroll is an American public address announcer for the University of Arkansas–Little Rock Trojans for men's basketball, and is \"The Voice of the Bruins\" as play-by-play announcer for Pulaski Academy football. He has also been the public address announcer for the Arkansas Travelers minor league baseball team and several high school sports in Arkansas including Little Rock Central High School.\n\nCarroll started in journalism in the Arkansas National Guard. After returning to his civilian career in information technology, he volunteered to serve as public address announcer for the Pulaski Academy baseball team. His first professional job as a public address announcer came when he was hired by Arkansas Razorbacks football notable Rickey Williams to announce American football and basketball games. He was later hired by the Little Rock School District to announce high school American football, basketball, and track and field.\n\nIn 2015 Carroll was selected to replace RJ Hawk as the public address announcer of the Arkansas–Little Rock Trojans men's basketball team. That same year the Trojans made it to the second round of the NCAA basketball tournament for only the second time in program history.\n\nCarroll was named the announcer of the Arkansas Travelers in 2016, taking up the reins from Russ McKinney. He was succeeded the following year by Chris Amsler.\n\nCarroll grew up in Arkansas and joined the Army after graduating from Conway High School (Arkansas). While in the Army he held several positions including meteorologist, print journalist and broadcast journalist.\n\n"}
{"id": "36897212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36897212", "title": "Kallu Chidambaram", "text": "Kallu Chidambaram\n\nKallu Chidambaram (8 August 1948 – 19 October 2015) (Telugu:కళ్ళు చిదంబరం) was an Indian film actor, known for his works in Telugu cinema. Chidambaram is one of the finest comedians of Telugu cinema. Chidambaram was an accomplished theatre artist, and has worked as an Assistant Engineer in Visakhapatnam Port Trust. In 1988 he made his film debut with Kallu for which he has garnered the state Nandi Special Jury Award.\n\nChidambaram was born in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, India. He is survived by his wife, two sons, and two daughters.\n\nWhile working full-time as an Engineer, He has acted in a variety of roles in the films of directors such as E. V. V. Satyanarayana, S.V.Krishna Reddy, and Relangi Narasimha Rao, had given him exclusively comic roles in their films. In 1995, the Telugu socio-fantasy film \"Ammoru\", directed by Kodi Ramakrishna, brought Kallu Chidambaram critical acclaim for his performance.\n"}
{"id": "2333181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2333181", "title": "Kumkuma", "text": "Kumkuma\n\nKumkuma is a powder used for social and religious markings in India. It is made from turmeric or any other local materials. The turmeric is dried and powdered with a bit of slaked lime, which turns the rich yellow powder into a red color. Recently, the CDC has identified this as a major source of lead poisoning in children.\n\nIn India, it is known by many names including \"kuṅkumam\" (Sanskrit कुङ्कुमम्), \"kumkuma\" (Telugu కుంకుమ), \"kunku\" (Marathi कुंकू), \"kumkum\" (Bengali কুমকুম, Hindi कुमकुम), \"kunkuma\" (Kannada ಕುಂಕುಮ), \"kungkumam\" (Tamil குங்குமம்), and \"kungkumam\" (Malayalam കുങ്കുമം).\n\nKumkuma is most often applied by Indians to the forehead. The reason has to do with the ancient Indian belief that \"the human body is divided into seven vortices of energy, called chakras, beginning at the base of the spine and ending at the top of the head. The sixth chakra, also known as the third eye, is centered in the forehead directly between the eyebrows and is believed to be the channel through which humankind opens spiritually to the Divine\".\n\nThus, the kumkuma is placed where Indians believe to be the most important spot for receptivity to be enhanced.\n\n\nIn the Vaishnava tradition, the \"white lines represent the footprint of their God, while the red refers to his consort, Lakshmi\". The Swaminarayana tradition holds that the tilaka (yellow U-shaped mark) \"is a symbol of the lotus feet of Paramatma,\" and the kumkuma \"represents the bhakta\" (devotee). In both of these traditions, the forehead mark serves as a reminder that a devotee of God should always remain as a servant at the feet of God.\n\nThe 'color' of the womb is yellow and is symbolically represented by turmeric. The blood stains on the womb is represented by kumkuma. It is believed that the combination of turmeric and kumkuma represents prosperity.\n\nWhen a girl or a married woman visits a house, it is a sign of respect (in case of an elderly lady) or blessings (in case of a girl) to offer kumkuma to them when they leave. However, it is not offered to widows.\n\nWhen visiting a temple, married women from southern India usually dip their ring finger in yellow turmeric powder and apply a dot on their forehead. Men, women, girls, and boys also apply a dot on their forehead of red turmeric powder, when visiting a temple or during a pooja. Kumkuma at temples is found in heaps. People dip their thumb into the heap and apply it on the forehead or between the eyebrows.\n\nIn most of India, married women apply red kumkuma to the parting of their hair above their forehead every day as a symbol of marriage. This is called vermilion, or in Hindi, \"sindoor\". In southern India, many unmarried girls wear a bindi every day unlike northern India where it is only worn as a symbol of marriage.\n\nKumkum is made from turmeric by adding limestone and is an Ayurvedic facial material along with turmeric.\n\nKumkuma is also widely used for worshiping the Hindu goddesses, especially Shakti and Lakshmi, and a kumkuma powder is thrown (along with other mixtures) into the air during Holi (the Festival of Colours), a popular Hindu spring festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19813283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19813283", "title": "Languages of Guatemala", "text": "Languages of Guatemala\n\nSpanish is the official language of Guatemala. As a first and second language, Spanish is spoken by 93% of the population. Guatemalan Spanish is the local variant of the Spanish language.\n\nTwenty-one Mayan languages are spoken, especially in rural areas, as well as two non-Mayan Amerindian languages, Xinca, an indigenous language, and Garifuna, an Arawakan language spoken on the Caribbean coast. According to the Language Law of 2003, the languages of Mayas, Xincas, and Garifunas are unrecognized as National Languages.\n\nThe peace accords signed in December 1996 provide for the translation of some official documents and voting materials into several indigenous languages (see summary of main substantive accords) and mandate the provision of interpreters in legal cases for non-Spanish speakers. The accord also sanctioned bilingual education in Spanish and indigenous languages. It is common for indigenous Guatemalans to learn or speak between two and five of the nation's other languages, and Spanish.\n"}
{"id": "26339570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26339570", "title": "List of Germans of Polish origin", "text": "List of Germans of Polish origin\n\nList of notable German citizens of Polish origin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "169564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169564", "title": "Meeting system", "text": "Meeting system\n\nA meeting system is any systemic means of improving meetings, workshops or conferences. They are particularly important in consensus decision making and deliberative democracy, but they have always been recognized as important to judicial procedure and parliamentary procedure, down to the level of the town meeting or below.\n\nThere are many such systems, of which one of the best-known is probably Robert's Rules of Order, which is applied in parliamentary debate and corporate meetings in many English-speaking countries. Also well-known is the cross-examination debate applied in both criminal law and civil law. Much innovation in meeting systems has come from objection to these two basic models, notably because both reflect an adversarial process.\n\nWhen used in political or economic contexts, meeting systems are very often associated with a voting system. When used in matchmaking or other sexual/romantic contexts, a meeting system is considered a dating system. These are discussed in other articles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "154671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154671", "title": "Monarchy of Ireland", "text": "Monarchy of Ireland\n\nA monarchical system of government existed in Ireland from ancient times until—for what became the Republic of Ireland—the early twentieth century. Northern Ireland, as part of the United Kingdom, remains under a monarchical system of government. The Gaelic kingdoms of Ireland ended with the Norman invasion of Ireland, when the kingdom became a fief of the Holy See under the Lordship of the King of England. This lasted until the Parliament of Ireland conferred the crown of Ireland upon King Henry VIII of England during the English Reformation. The monarch of England held the crowns of England and Ireland in a personal union. The Union of the Crowns in 1603 expanded the personal union to include Scotland. The personal union between England and Scotland became a political union with the enactments of the Acts of Union 1707, which created the Kingdom of Great Britain. The crowns of Great Britain and Ireland remained in personal union until it was ended by the Acts of Union 1800, which united Ireland and Great Britain into the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland from January 1801 until December 1922.\n\nAfter that date, most of Ireland left the United Kingdom to become the largely independent Irish Free State, a dominion within the British Empire; the remaining part, Northern Ireland, elected to remain in the United Kingdom. Both the Free State and the United Kingdom, which changed its name to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in 1927, had the same person as monarch: George V. In 1937, the year after George V's death, the Free State adopted a new constitution which changed the state's name to \"Ireland\" (or \"Éire\") and removed all mention of the monarch. In April 1949, \"Ireland\" was declared a republic, with the description of the \"Republic of Ireland\", and it left the Commonwealth of Nations. Since April 1949, the only part of the island of Ireland that has retained a monarchical system is Northern Ireland (as part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland).\n\nGaelic Ireland consisted of as few as five and as many as nine Primary kingdoms (Cuaighe) which were often subdivided into many minor smaller kingdoms (Tutha). The primary kingdoms were Ailech, Airgíalla, Connacht, Leinster, Mide, Osraige, Munster, Thomond and Ulster. Until the end of Gaelic Ireland they continued to fluctuate, expand and contract in size, as well as dissolving entirely or being amalgamated into new entities. The role of High King of Ireland was primarily titular and rarely (if ever) absolute. Gaelic Ireland was not ruled as a unitary state.\n\nThe names of Connacht, Ulster, Leinster and Munster are still in use, now applied to the four modern provinces of Ireland. The following is a list of the main Irish kingdoms and their kings.\n\n\nMaire Herbert has noted that \"Annal evidence from the late eighth century in Ireland suggests that the larger provincial kingships were already accruing power at the expense of smaller political units. Leading kings appear in public roles at church-state proclamations...and at royal conferences with their peers.\" (2000, p. 62). Responding to the assumption of the title \"ri hErenn uile\" (\"king of all Ireland\") by Mael Sechlainn I in 862, she furthermore states that\nthe ninth-century assumption of the title of \"ri Erenn\" was a first step towards the definition of a national kingship and a territorially-based Irish realm. Yet change only gained ground after the stranglehold of Uí Néill power-structures was broken in the eleventh century. ...The renaming of a kingship ... engendered a new self-perception which shaped the future definition of a kingdom and of its subjects.\n\nNevertheless, the achievements of Mael Sechlainn and his successors were purely personal, and open to destruction upon their deaths. Between 846–1022, and again from 1042–1166, kings from the leading Irish kingdoms made greater attempts to compel the rest of the island's populace to their rule, with varying degrees of success, until the inauguration of Ruaidri Ua Conchobair (Rory O'Connor) in 1166,\n\n\nUpon the death of Muirchertach Mac Lochlainn in early 1166, Ruaidhrí, King of Connacht, proceeded to Dublin where he was inaugurated \"King of Ireland\" without opposition. He was arguably the first undisputed full king of Ireland. He was also the only Gaelic one, as the events of the Norman invasion of 1169–1171 brought about the destruction of the high-kingship, and the direct involvement of the Kings of England in Irish politics.\n\nOne of Ruaidrí's first acts as King was the conquest of Leinster, which resulted in the exile of its king, Diarmait Mac Murchada. Ruaidrí then obtained terms and hostages from all the notable kings and lords. He then celebrated the Oneach Tailtann, a recognised prerogative of the High Kings, and made a number of notable charitable gifts and donations. However, his \"caput\" remained in his home territory in central Connacht (County Galway). Ireland's recognised capital, Dublin, was ruled by Ascall mac Ragnaill, who had submitted to Ruaidri.\n\nOnly with the arrival of MacMurrough's Anglo-Norman allies in May 1169 did Ruaidrí's position begin to weaken. A series of disastrous defeats and ill-judged treaties lost him much of Leinster, and encouraged uprisings by rebel lords. By the time of the arrival of Henry II in 1171, Ruaidrí's position as king of Ireland was increasingly untenable.\n\nRuaidrí at first remained aloof from engagement with King Henry, though many of the lesser kings and lords welcomed his arrival as they wished to see him curb the territorial gains made by his vassals. Through the intercession of Lorcán Ua Tuathail (Laurence O'Toole), the Archbishop of Dublin, Ruaidrí and Henry came to terms with the Treaty of Windsor in 1175. Ruaidrí agreed to recognise Henry as his lord; in return, Ruaidrí was allowed to keep all Ireland as his personal kingdom outside the petty kingdoms of Laigin (Leinster) and Mide as well as the city of Waterford.\n\nHenry was unwilling or unable to enforce the terms of the treaty on his barons in Ireland, who continued to gain territory in Ireland. A low point came in 1177 with a successful raid into the heart of Connacht by a party of Anglo-Normans, led by one of Ruaidrí's sons, Prince Muirchertach. They were expelled, Ruaidhrí ordering the blinding of Muirchertach, but over the next six years his rule was increasingly diminished by internal dynastic conflict and external attacks. Finally, in 1183, he abdicated.\n\nHe was twice briefly returned to power in 1185 and 1189, but even within his home kingdom of Connacht he had become politically marginalized. He lived quietly on his estates, and died at the monastery of Cong in 1198 and was buried at Clonmacnoise. With the possible exception of Brian Ua Néill (Brian O'Neill; died 1260), no other Gaelic king was ever again recognised as king or high king of Ireland.\n\nBy the time of Ruairi's death in 1198, King Henry II of England had invaded Ireland and given the part of it he controlled to his son John as a Lordship when John was just 10 in 1177. When John succeeded to the English throne in 1199, he remained Lord of Ireland thereby bringing the kingdom of England and the lordship of Ireland into personal union. By the mid-13th century, while the island was nominally ruled by the king of England, from c.1260 the effective area of control began to recede. As various Cambro-Norman noble families died out in the male line, the Gaelic nobility began to reclaim lost territory. Successive English kings did little to stem the tide, instead using Ireland to draw upon men and supplies in the wars in Scotland and France.\n\nBy the 1390s the Lordship had effectively shrunk to the Pale with the rest of the island under the control of independent Gaelic-Irish or rebel Cambro-Norman noble families. King Richard II of England made two journeys to Ireland during his reign to rectify the situation; as a direct result of his second visit in 1399 he lost his throne to Henry Bolingbroke. This was the last time that a medieval king of England visited Ireland.\n\nFor the duration of the 15th century, royal power in Ireland was weak, the country being dominated by the various clans and dynasties of Gaelic (O'Neill, O'Brien, MacCarthy) or Cambro-Norman (Burke, FitzGerald, Butler) origin.\n\nThe title of Lord of Ireland was abolished by Henry VIII, who was made King of Ireland by the Parliament of Ireland by the Crown of Ireland Act 1542.\n\nThe title \"King of Ireland\" was created by an act of the Irish Parliament in 1541, replacing the Lordship of Ireland, which had existed since 1171, with the Kingdom of Ireland. The Crown of Ireland Act 1542 established a personal union between the English and Irish crowns, providing that whoever was King of England was to be King of Ireland as well, and so its first holder was King Henry VIII of England. Henry's sixth and last wife, Katherine Parr, was the first Queen consort of Ireland following her marriage to King Henry in 1543. This followed the failure of the plan to make The 1st Duke of Richmond and Somerset (1519–1536), Henry VIII's illegitimate son, into the King of Ireland. Although Richmond was made Lord Lieutenant, the King's counsellors feared that creating a separate Kingdom of Ireland, with a ruler other than that of England, would create another threat like the King of Scotland.\n\nThe title of King of Ireland was created after Henry VIII had been excommunicated in 1538, so it was not recognised by European Catholic monarchs. Following the accession of the Catholic Mary I in 1553 and her marriage to Philip II of Spain, in 1554, Pope Paul IV issued the papal bull \"Ilius\" in 1555, recognising them as Queen and King of Ireland together with her heirs and successors.\n\nFor a brief period in the 17th century, during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms from the impeachment and execution of Charles I in 1649 to the Irish Restoration in May 1660, there was no 'King of Ireland'. After the Irish Rebellion of 1641, Irish Catholics, organised in Confederate Ireland, still recognised Charles I, and later Charles II, as legitimate monarchs, in opposition to the claims of the English Parliament, and signed a formal treaty with Charles I in 1648. But in 1649, the Rump Parliament, victorious in the English Civil War, executed Charles I, and made England a republic, or \"Commonwealth\". The Parliamentarian general Oliver Cromwell came across the Irish Sea to crush the Irish royalists, temporarily uniting England, Scotland, and Ireland under one government, and styling himself \"Lord Protector\" of the three kingdoms. (\"See also Cromwellian conquest of Ireland\".) After Cromwell's death in 1658, his son Richard emerged as the leader of this pan-British Isles republic, but he was not competent to maintain it. The Parliament of England at Westminster voted to restore the monarchy, and in 1660 King Charles II returned from exile in France to become King of England, King of Scotland and King of Ireland.\n\nThe Acts of Union 1707 merged the kingdoms of England and Scotland into the Kingdom of Great Britain, under the sovereignty of the British Crown. The effect was to create a personal union between the Crown of Ireland and the British Crown, instead of the English Crown. Later, from 1 January 1801, an additional merger took place between the two Kingdoms. By the terms of the Acts of Union 1800, the Kingdom of Ireland merged with the Kingdom of Great Britain, thus creating the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. Following the separation of most of Ireland from that kingdom in 1922, the remaining constituent parts were renamed the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in 1927, five years after the establishment of the Irish Free State.\n\nIn early December 1922, most of Ireland (twenty-six of the country's thirty-two counties) left the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. These 'Twenty-Six Counties' now became the Irish Free State, a self-governing dominion within the British Empire. Six of Ireland's north-eastern counties, all within the Province of Ulster, remained within the United Kingdom as Northern Ireland. As a Dominion, the Free State was a constitutional monarchy with the British monarch as its head of state. The monarch was officially represented in the new Free State by the Governor-General of the Irish Free State.\n\nThe King's title in the Irish Free State was exactly the same as it was elsewhere in the British Empire, being from 1922 to 1927: \"By the Grace of God, of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas King, Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India\" and, from 1927 to 1937: \"By the Grace of God, of Great Britain, Ireland and the British Dominions beyond the Seas King, Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India\". The change in the King's title was effected under an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom called the Royal and Parliamentary Titles Act, 1927, intended to update the name of the United Kingdom as well as the King's title to reflect the fact that most of the island of Ireland had left the United Kingdom. The Act therefore provided that \"Parliament shall hereafter be known as and styled the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland [instead of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland]\" and \"In every Act passed and public document issued after the passing of this Act the expression 'United Kingdom' shall, unless the context otherwise requires, mean Great Britain and Northern Ireland.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Times\", the \"Imperial Conference proposed that, as a result of the establishment of the Irish Free State, the title of the King should be changed to 'George V, by the Grace of God, of Great Britain, Ireland, and the British Dominions beyond the seas King, Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India.'\" The change did not mean that the King had now assumed different styles in the different parts of his Empire. That development did not formally occur until 1953, four years after the new Republic of Ireland had left the Commonwealth.\n\nDespite a lack of change in his title, George V's position as king of that country became separated from his place as King of the United Kingdom (as occurred with all the other British Dominions at the time). The Government of the Irish Free State (also known as His Majesty's Government in the Irish Free State) was confident that the relationship of these independent countries under the Crown would function as a personal union.\n\nThe constitutional crisis resulting from the abdication of King Edward VIII in December 1936 was used by Éamon de Valera's government as a catalyst to amend the Constitution of the Irish Free State by eliminating all but one of the King's official duties. This was achieved with the enactment on 11 December of the Constitution (Amendment No. 27) Act, which removed the monarch from the constitution and, on 12 December, the External Relations Act, which provided that the monarch recognised by Britain and the rest of the Commonwealth could represent the Irish Free State \"for the purposes of the appointment of diplomatic and consular representatives and the conclusion of international agreements\" when authorised to do so by the Irish government. The following year, a new constitution was ratified, changing the name of the Free State to Éire, or \"Ireland\" in the English language, and establishing the office of President of Ireland. The King's role in Ireland was ambiguous. Whether the Irish head of state from 1936 to 1949 was George VI, or the President, was left unclear. This ambiguity was eliminated with the enactment of the Republic of Ireland Act 1948, which came into force in April 1949 and declared the state to be a republic. The External Relations Act was repealed, removing the remaining duties of the monarch, and Ireland formally withdrew from the British Commonwealth. The position of the King in the Irish state was finally and formally ended by the Oireachtas with the repeal of the Crown of Ireland Act 1542 by the Statute Law Revision (Pre-Union Irish Statutes) Act 1962.\n\nThe British monarchy, specifically, continued and continues in Northern Ireland, which remains a part of the sovereign state that is the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. From 1921 until 1973, the British monarch was officially represented in Northern Ireland by the Governor of Northern Ireland.\n\n\nThe Wars of the Three Kingdoms (incorporating the Irish Rebellion of 1641, Confederate Ireland, the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland and the Irish Confederate Wars) took place between 1639 and 1651. Charles I was executed in 1649 and his son Charles II was recognised by some Irish lords as King of Ireland. The Interregnum began with England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales ruled by the Council of State, then the Lord Protector Oliver Cromwell (1649–58) and his son Richard Cromwell (1658–59). The Restoration in Ireland was effected in 1660 without major opposition, Charles II being declared King on 14 May 1660 by the Irish Convention.\n\n\nThe position of King of Ireland was contested by William III and James II between 1689 and 1691, after the Glorious Revolution of 1688. The Crown and Parliament Recognition Act 1689 made William King of Ireland, and this was reinforced by his victory at the Battle of the Boyne (part of the Williamite War in Ireland).\n\nThe Acts of Union 1800, instituted in reaction to the Irish Rebellion of 1798, created the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.\n\n\n\nThe king's title in the Irish Free State, when it became a self-governing Dominion of the British Empire, and its constitutional successor from December 1936 to April 1949, was the same as elsewhere in the British Commonwealth, but it was unclear whether the President of Ireland was Irish head of state from 1936 to 1949 or the King, George VI.\n\nThe changes in the royal style in the 20th century took into account the emergence of independence for the dominions from the Imperial Parliament of the United Kingdom. The kings successively and their advisers and governments in the United Kingdom were fully aware that the republican intent of the representatives of the Irish Free State was in marked contrast to the intent of the governments of certain other dominions, such as Canada. and such differences were manifested in this period in the design and use of flags and other national symbols for the Irish Free State and other dominions.\n\nDuring the Easter Rising in Dublin in 1916, some republican leaders, including Patrick Pearse and Joseph Plunkett, contemplated giving the throne of an independent Ireland to Prince Joachim of Prussia. While they were not in favour of a monarchy in itself, Pearse and Plunkett thought that if the rising were successful and Germany won the First World War, they would insist on an independent Ireland being a monarchy with a German prince as king, in the same way as Romania and Bulgaria. The fact that Joachim did not speak English was also considered an advantage, as he might be more disposed to learning and promoting the use of the Irish language. In his memoirs, Desmond FitzGerald wrote:\nErnest Blythe recalls that in January 1915 he heard Plunkett and Thomas MacDonagh express support for the idea at an Irish Volunteers meeting. No objections were made by anyone and Bulmer Hobson was among the attendees. Blythe himself said he found the idea \"immensely attractive\".\n\nAccording to Hugo O'Donnell, 7th Duke of Tetuan, Éamon de Valera raised the idea of an Irish monarchy with his great-grandfather Juan O'Donnell.\n\nRaymond Moulton O'Brien, the self-styled \"Prince of Thomond\" and the political party 'United Christian Nationalist Party', of which O'Brien was the leader, wanted to reestablish the monarchy with O'Brien as king.\n\n"}
{"id": "2516645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2516645", "title": "Mongolian armour", "text": "Mongolian armour\n\nMongolian armour has a long history. Mongol armour drew its influence from Chinese and Middle Eastern styles. Most Mongolian armour was of scale and lamellar variety. Most armour was made of hardened leather and iron, lanced together onto a fabric backing, sometimes silk. Mail armour was also sometimes used, but was rare, probably due to its weight and difficulty to repair. Mongol archers demanded the armour be light enough so that when riding, it didn't interfere with their mobility. It is also possible that the Mongol armour lacked mail and was generally lighter than its counterparts to the East and West because the nomadic habits of the Mongols were not conducive to the labour-intensive practices and permanent facilities necessary for making mail or large plates. Sometimes arm protection was removed so that a rider could draw their bow. The helmet was made of mostly iron, but leather and other materials were also used. Lamellar armour was also used by the countries that were affected by the invasion of the Mongols worldwide, including the conquest of China and the Middle East. This is especially shown by Tamerlane, a debatably Mongol warlord of the 15th century that used lamellar armour consistently with his cavalry, and garbed himself and his men in Mongolian armour during war.\n\nGenghis Khan was once said to have issued all his horsemen with silk vests, as an arrow hitting silk does not break it but ends up embedded in the flesh wrapped in silk, allowing the arrow to be removed by gently teasing the silk open, as opposed to the usual method of removing barbed arrows, cutting them out or pushing them right through an injured limb and out of the other side. These silk vests functioned much like the padded armour used by European and Byzantine soldiers of the era, such as the gambeson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1811319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1811319", "title": "Mwami", "text": "Mwami\n\nMwami () is the chiefly title in Kirundi and Kinyarwanda, the Congolese Nande and Bashi languages, Luhya in Kenya and various other Bantu languages, such as the Tonga language (spoken in Zambia and Zimbabwe). The word is usually translated as \"king\". It can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "6745340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6745340", "title": "Myene language", "text": "Myene language\n\nMyene is a cluster of closely related Bantu varieties spoken in Gabon by about 46,000 people. It is perhaps the most divergent of the Narrow Bantu languages, though Nurse & Philippson (2003) place it in with the Tsogo languages (B.30). The more distinctive varieties are Mpongwe (\"Pongoué\"), Galwa (\"Galloa\"), and Nkomi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28211793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28211793", "title": "Nepalis in South Korea", "text": "Nepalis in South Korea\n\nNepalese in South Korea comprise Korean Citizens and Nepalese migrant workers, including temporary expatriates and permanent residents, as well as their locally born descendants of either Korean or Nepalese nationality. The Nepalese in South Korea are mainly of four distinct ethnic groups : Bahun (Brahmins), Chhetri (Rajputs), Madhesis and Janjatis.\n\nThe first wave of Nepalese immigration began in the late 1980s. After Nepal restored its democracy in the 1990s, labour laws were changed to allow Nepalese youths to go abroad in search of work. The Nepalese community in South Korea thus consists primarily of migrant workers, but also has large numbers of students as well as Nepalese women married to South Korean men they met through international matchmaking agencies. The Nepali government are attempting to induce Nepali workers staying illegally in South Korea (roughly 2,500 ) to return home, in hopes that the South Korean government will increase its intake of Nepali workers in future years.\n\nThe Nepalese community managed to keep their traditions alive while living in South Korea. Nepalese festivals such as Tihar, Dasain and Teej are celebrated throughout the country.\n\nThe Non-Resident Nepali Association of Korea is one organisation for Nepalese people living in South Korea. In 2010, they opened a shelter in Dongdaemun-gu, Seoul to provide charitable assistance for Nepalese who become unemployed or otherwise face difficulties. Another organisation, aimed specifically at international students, is the Society of Nepalese Students in Korea (SONSIK), established in 2004. South Korea's multilingual Migrant Workers' Television was founded by Nepali migrant worker Minod Moktan (Minu), a human rights activist who stayed in South Korea as an illegal alien for nearly 18 years before his deportation in October 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "19216184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19216184", "title": "Nuclear power debate", "text": "Nuclear power debate\n\nThe nuclear power debate is a long-running controversy about the risks and benefits of using nuclear reactors to generate electricity for civilian purposes. The debate about nuclear power peaked during the 1970s and 1980s, as more and more reactors were built and came online, and \"reached an intensity unprecedented in the history of technology controversies\" in some countries. Thereafter, the nuclear industry created jobs, focused on safety and public concerns mostly waned. In the last decade, however, with growing public awareness about climate change and the critical role that carbon dioxide and methane emissions plays in causing the heating of the earth's atmosphere, there's been a resurgence in the intensity nuclear power debate once again. Nuclear power advocates and those who are most concerned about climate change point to nuclear power's reliable, emission-free, high-density energy and a generation of young physicists and engineers working to bring a new generation of nuclear technology into existence to replace fossil fuels. On the other hand, skeptics can point to two frightening nuclear accidents, the Chernobyl disaster in 1986 and subsequently the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, combined with escalating acts of global terrorism, to argue against continuing use of the technology.\n\nThe debate continues today between those who fear the power of nuclear and those who fear what will happen to the earth if humanity doesn't use nuclear power. At the 1963 ground-breaking for what would become the world's largest nuclear power plant, President John F. Kennedy declared that nuclear power was a \"step on the long road to peace,\" and that by using \"science and technology to achieve significant breakthroughs\" that we could \"conserve the resources\" to leave the world in better shape. Yet he also acknowledged that the Atomic Age was a \"dreadful age\" and \"when we broke the atom apart, we changed the history of the world.\"\n\nProponents of nuclear energy argue that nuclear power is a clean and sustainable energy source which provides huge amounts of uninterrupted energy without polluting the atmosphere or emitting the carbon emissions that cause global warming. Use of nuclear power provides plentiful, well-paying jobs, energy security, reduces a dependence on imported fuels and exposure to price risks associated with resource speculation and Middle East politics. Proponents advance the notion that nuclear power produces virtually no air pollution, in contrast to the massive amount of pollution and carbon emission generated from burning fossil fuels like coal, oil and natural gas. Modern society demands always-on energy to power communications, computer networks, transportation, industry and residences at all times of day and night. In the absence of nuclear power, utilities need to burn fossil fuels to keep the energy grid reliable, even with access to solar and wind energy, because those sources are intermittent. Proponents also believe that nuclear power is the only viable course for a country to achieve energy independence while also meeting their \"ambitious\" nationally determined contributions (NDC's) to reduce carbon emissions in accordance with the Paris Agreement signed by 195 nations. They emphasize that the risks of storing waste are small and existing stockpiles can be reduced by using this waste to produce fuels for the latest technology in newer reactors. Finally, even though alarmist media reports of nuclear accidents raised fear levels a lot, in fact the Chernobyl disaster caused 56 direct deaths and Fukushima reactors caused no actual deaths as a result of the nuclear meltdown. The operational safety record of nuclear is excellent when compared to the other major kinds of power plants and by preventing pollution, actually saves lives every year.\n\nOpponents say that nuclear power poses numerous threats to people and the environment and point to studies in the literature that question if it will ever be a sustainable energy source. These threats include health risks, accidents and environmental damage from uranium mining, processing and transport. Along with the fears associated with nuclear weapons proliferation, nuclear power opponents fear sabotage by terrorists of nuclear plants, diversion and misuse of radioactive fuels or fuel waste, as well as naturally-occurring leakage from the unsolved and imperfect long-term storage process of radioactive nuclear waste. They also contend that reactors themselves are enormously complex machines where many things can and do go wrong, and there have been many serious nuclear accidents. Critics do not believe that these risks can be reduced through new technology. They further argue that when all the energy-intensive stages of the nuclear fuel chain are considered, from uranium mining to nuclear decommissioning, nuclear power is not a low-carbon electricity source.\n\nTwo opposing camps have evolved in society with respect to nuclear power, one supporting and promoting nuclear power and another opposing it. At the heart of this divide sit different views of risk and individual beliefs regarding public involvement in making decisions about large-scale high technology. Questions which emerge include: is nuclear power safe for humans and the environment? Could another Chernobyl disaster or Fukushima disaster happen? Can we dispose of nuclear waste in a safe manner? Can nuclear power help to reduce climate change and air pollution in a timely way?\n\nIn the 2010 book \"Why vs. Why: Nuclear Power\" Barry Brook and Ian Lowe discuss and articulate the debate about nuclear power. Brook makes the following seven arguments in favor of nuclear energy:\n\nLowe, in turn, makes the following arguments against nuclear power:\n\n\"The Economist\" says that nuclear power \"looks dangerous, unpopular, expensive and risky\", and that \"it is replaceable with relative ease and could be forgone with no huge structural shifts in the way the world works\". When asking what the world would be like without it \"The Economist\" notes that \"without nuclear power and with other fuels filling in its share pro rata, emissions from generation would have been about 11 billion tonnes. The difference is roughly equal to the total annual emissions of Germany and Japan combined.\" An article in Scientific American said nuclear plants should be built if both the cost and the risk are low.\n\nThe World Nuclear Association has reported that nuclear electricity generation in 2012 was at its lowest level since 1999. The WNA has said that “nuclear power generation suffered its biggest ever one-year fall through 2012 as the bulk of the Japanese fleet remained offline for a full calendar year”.\n\nData from the International Atomic Energy Agency showed that nuclear power plants globally produced of electricity in 2012 – 7% less than in 2011. The figures illustrate the effects of a full year of 48 Japanese power reactors producing no power during the year. The permanent closure of eight reactor units in Germany was also a factor. Problems at Crystal River, Fort Calhoun and the two San Onofre units in the USA meant they produced no power for the full year, while in Belgium Doel 3 and Tihange 2 were out of action for six months. Compared to 2010, the nuclear industry produced 11% less electricity in 2012.\n\nBrazil, China, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain and the U.K. now all generate more electricity from non-hydro renewable energy than from nuclear sources. In 2015, new power generation using solar power was 33% of the global total, wind power over 17%, and 1.3% for nuclear power, exclusively due to development in China.\n\nMany studies have documented how nuclear power plants generate 16% of global electricity, but provide only 6.3% of energy production and 2.6% of final energy consumption. This mismatch stems mainly from the poor consumption efficiency of electricity compared to other energy carriers, and the transmission losses associated with nuclear plants which are usually situated far away from sources of demand.\n\nFor some countries, nuclear power affords energy independence. Nuclear power has been relatively unaffected by embargoes, and uranium is mined in countries willing to export, including Australia and Canada. However, countries now responsible for more than 30% of the world’s uranium production: Kazakhstan, Namibia, Niger, and Uzbekistan, are politically unstable.\n\nOne assessment from the IAEA showed that enough high-grade ore exists to supply the needs of the current reactor fleet for 40–50 years. According to Sovacool (2011), reserves from existing uranium mines are being rapidly depleted, and expected shortfalls in available fuel threaten future plants and contribute to volatility of uranium prices at existing plants. Escalation of uranium fuel costs decreased the viability of nuclear projects. Uranium prices rose from 2001 to 2007, before declining.\n\nThe International Atomic Energy Agency and the Nuclear Energy Agency of the OCED, in their latest review of world uranium resources and demand, \"Uranium 2014: Resources, Production, and Demand\", concluded that uranium resources would support \"significant growth in nuclear capacity,\" and that: \"Identified resources are sufficient for over 120 years, considering 2012 uranium requirements of 61 600 tU.\"\n\nAccording to a Stanford study, fast breeder reactors have the potential to provide power for humans on earth for billions of years, making this source sustainable. But \"because of the link between plutonium and nuclear weapons, the potential application of fast breeders has led to concerns that nuclear power expansion would bring in an era of uncontrolled weapons proliferation\".\n\nIn 2010, the worldwide average capacity factor was 80.1%. In 2005, the global average capacity factor was 86.8%, the number of SCRAMs per 7,000 hours critical was 0.6, and the unplanned capacity loss factor was 1.6%. Capacity factor is the net power produced divided by the maximum amount possible running at 100% all the time, thus this includes all scheduled maintenance/refueling outages as well as unplanned losses. The 7,000 hours is roughly representative of how long any given reactor will remain critical in a year, meaning that the scram rates translates into a sudden and unplanned shutdown about 0.6 times per year for any given reactor in the world. The unplanned capacity loss factor represents amount of power not produced due to unplanned scrams and postponed restarts.\n\nThe World Nuclear Association argues that: \"Obviously sun, wind, tides and waves cannot be controlled to provide directly either continuous base-load power, or peak-load power when it is needed...\" \"In practical terms non-hydro renewables are therefore able to supply up to some 15–20% of the capacity of an electricity grid, though they cannot directly be applied as economic substitutes for most coal or nuclear power, however significant they become in particular areas with favourable conditions.\" \"If the fundamental opportunity of these renewables is their abundance and relatively widespread occurrence, the fundamental challenge, especially for electricity supply, is applying them to meet demand given their variable and diffuse nature. This means either that there must be reliable duplicate sources of electricity beyond the normal system reserve, or some means of electricity storage.\" \"Relatively few places have scope for pumped storage dams close to where the power is needed, and overall efficiency is less than 80%. Means of storing large amounts of electricity as such in giant batteries or by other means have not been developed.\"\n\nAccording to Benjamin K. Sovacool, most studies critiquing solar and wind energy look only at individual generators and not at the system wide effects of solar and wind farms. Correlations between power swings drop substantially as more solar and wind farms are integrated (a process known as geographical smoothing) and a wider geographic area also enables a larger pool of energy efficiency efforts to abate intermittency.\n\nSovacool says that variable renewable energy sources such as wind power and solar energy can displace nuclear resources. \"Nine recent studies have concluded that the variability and intermittency of wind and solar resources becomes easier to manage the more they are deployed and interconnected, not the other way around, as some utilities suggest. This is because wind and solar plants help grid operators handle major outages and contingencies elsewhere in the system, since they generate power in smaller increments that are less damaging than unexpected outages from large plants\".\n\nAccording to a 2011 projection by the International Energy Agency, solar power generators may produce most of the world’s electricity within 50 years, with wind power, hydroelectricity and biomass plants supplying much of the remaining generation. \"Photovoltaic and concentrated solar power together can become the major source of electricity.\" Renewable technologies can enhance energy security in electricity generation, heat supply, and transportation.\n\nAs of 2013, the World Nuclear Association has said \"There is unprecedented interest in renewable energy, particularly solar and wind energy, which provide electricity without giving rise to any carbon dioxide emission. Harnessing these for electricity depends on the cost and efficiency of the technology, which is constantly improving, thus reducing costs per peak kilowatt.\"\n\nRenewable electricity supply in the 20-50+% range has already been implemented in several European systems, albeit in the context of an integrated European grid system. In 2012 the share of electricity generated by renewable sources in Germany was 21.9%, compared to 16.0% for nuclear power after Germany shut down 7–8 of its 18 nuclear reactors in 2011. In the United Kingdom, the amount of energy produced from renewable energy is expected to exceed that from nuclear power by 2018, and Scotland plans to obtain all electricity from renewable energy by 2020. The majority of installed renewable energy across the world is in the form of hydro power, which has limited opportunity for expansion.\n\nThe IPCC has said that if governments were supportive, and the full complement of renewable energy technologies were deployed, renewable energy supply could account for almost 80% of the world's energy use within forty years. Rajendra K. Pachauri, chairman of the IPCC, said the necessary investment in renewables would cost only about 1% of global GDP annually. This approach could contain greenhouse gas levels to less than 450 parts per million, the safe level beyond which climate change becomes catastrophic and irreversible.\n\nThe cost of nuclear power has followed an increasing trend whereas the cost of electricity is declining in wind power. As of 2014, the wind industry in the USA is able to produce more power at lower cost by using taller wind turbines with longer blades, capturing the faster winds at higher elevations. This has opened up new opportunities and in Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio, the price of power from wind turbines built 300 feet to 400 feet above the ground can now compete with conventional fossil fuels like coal. Prices have fallen to about 4 cents per kilowatt-hour in some cases and utilities have been increasing the amount of wind energy in their portfolio, saying it is their cheapest option.\n\nFrom a safety stand point, nuclear power, in terms of lives lost per unit of electricity delivered, is comparable to and in some cases, lower than many renewable energy sources. There is no radioactive spent fuel that needs to be stored or reprocessed with conventional renewable energy sources. A nuclear plant needs to be disassembled and removed. Much of the disassembled nuclear plant needs to be stored as low level nuclear waste.\n\nSince nuclear power plants are fundamentally heat engines, waste heat disposal becomes an issue at high ambient temperature. Droughts and extended periods of high temperature can \"cripple nuclear power generation, and it is often during these times when electricity demand is highest because of air-conditioning and refrigeration loads and diminished hydroelectric capacity\". In such very hot weather a power reactor may have to operate at a reduced power level or even shut down. In 2009 in Germany, eight nuclear reactors had to be shut down simultaneously on hot summer days for reasons relating to the overheating of equipment or of rivers. Overheated discharge water has resulted in significant killing of fish in the past, harming livelihood and raising public concern.\n\nThe economics of new nuclear power plants is a controversial subject, since there are diverging views on this topic, and multibillion-dollar investments ride on the choice of an energy source. Nuclear power plants typically have high capital costs for building the plant, but low direct fuel costs (with much of the costs of fuel extraction, processing, use and long term storage externalized). Therefore, comparison with other power generation methods is strongly dependent on assumptions about construction timescales and capital financing for nuclear plants. Cost estimates also need to take into account plant decommissioning and nuclear waste storage costs. On the other hand, measures to mitigate global warming, such as a carbon tax or carbon emissions trading, may favor the economics of nuclear power.\n\nIn recent years there has been a slowdown of electricity demand growth and financing has become more difficult, which impairs large projects such as nuclear reactors, with very large upfront costs and long project cycles which carry a large variety of risks. In Eastern Europe, a number of long-established projects are struggling to find finance, notably Belene in Bulgaria and the additional reactors at Cernavoda in Romania, and some potential backers have pulled out. The reliable availability of cheap gas poses a major economic disincentive for nuclear projects.\n\nAnalysis of the economics of nuclear power must take into account who bears the risks of future uncertainties. To date all operating nuclear power plants were developed by state-owned or regulated utility monopolies where many of the risks associated with construction costs, operating performance, fuel price, and other factors were borne by consumers rather than suppliers. Many countries have now liberalized the electricity market where these risks, and the risk of cheaper competitors emerging before capital costs are recovered, are borne by plant suppliers and operators rather than consumers, which leads to a significantly different evaluation of the economics of new nuclear power plants.\n\nFollowing the 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, costs are likely to go up for currently operating and new nuclear power plants, due to increased requirements for on-site spent fuel management and elevated design basis threats.\n\nThe price of energy inputs and the environmental costs of every nuclear power plant continue long after the facility has finished generating its last useful electricity. Both nuclear reactors and uranium enrichment facilities must be decommissioned, returning the facility and its parts to a safe enough level to be entrusted for other uses. After a cooling-off period that may last as long as a century, reactors must be dismantled and cut into small pieces to be packed in containers for final disposal. The process is very expensive, time-consuming, dangerous for workers, hazardous to the natural environment, and presents new opportunities for human error, accidents or sabotage.\n\nThe total energy required for decommissioning can be as much as 50% more than the energy needed for the original construction. In most cases, the decommissioning process costs between US $300 million to US $5.6 billion. Decommissioning at nuclear sites which have experienced a serious accident are the most expensive and time-consuming. In the U.S. there are 13 reactors that have permanently shut down and are in some phase of decommissioning, and none of them have completed the process.\n\nCurrent UK plants are expected to exceed £73bn in decommissioning costs.\n\nCritics of nuclear power claim that it is the beneficiary of inappropriately large economic subsidies, taking the form of research and development, financing support for building new reactors and decommissioning old reactors and waste, and that these subsidies are often overlooked when comparing the economics of nuclear against other forms of power generation. \n\nNuclear power proponents argue that competing energy sources also receive subsidies. Fossil fuels receive large direct and indirect subsidies, such as tax benefits and not having to pay for the greenhouse gases they emit, such as through a carbon tax. Renewable energy sources receive proportionately large direct production subsidies and tax breaks in many nations, although in absolute terms they are often less than subsidies received by non-renewable energy sources.\n\nIn Europe, the FP7 research program has more subsidies for nuclear power than for renewable and energy efficiency together; over 70% of this is directed at the ITER fusion project. In the US, public research money for nuclear fission declined from 2,179 to 35 million dollars between 1980 and 2000.\n\nA 2010 report by Global Subsidies Initiative compared relative subsidies of most common energy sources. It found that nuclear energy receives 1.7 US cents per kilowatt hour (kWh) of energy it produces, compared to fossil fuels receiving 0.8 US cents per kWh, renewable energy receiving 5.0 US cents per kWh and biofuels receiving 5.1 US cents per kWh.\n\nKristin Shrader-Frechette has said \"if reactors were safe, nuclear industries would not demand government-guaranteed, accident-liability protection, as a condition for their generating electricity\". No private insurance company or even consortium of insurance companies \"would shoulder the fearsome liabilities arising from severe nuclear accidents\".\n\nThe potential costs resulting from a nuclear accident (including one caused by a terrorist attack or a natural disaster) are great. The liability of owners of nuclear power plants in the U.S. is currently limited under the Price-Anderson Act (PAA). The Price-Anderson Act, introduced in 1957, was \"an implicit admission that nuclear power provided risks that producers were unwilling to assume without federal backing\". The Price-Anderson Act \"shields nuclear utilities, vendors and suppliers against liability claims in the event of a catastrophic accident by imposing an upper limit on private sector liability\". Without such protection, private companies were unwilling to be involved. No other technology in the history of American industry has enjoyed such continuing blanket protection.\n\nThe PAA was due to expire in 2002, and the former U.S. vice-president Dick Cheney said in 2001 that \"nobody's going to invest in nuclear power plants\" if the PAA is not renewed. \n\nIn 1983, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (USNRC) concluded that the liability limits placed on nuclear insurance were significant enough to constitute a subsidy, but did not attempt to quantify the value of such a subsidy at that time. Shortly after this in 1990, Dubin and Rothwell were the first to estimate the value to the U.S. nuclear industry of the limitation on liability for nuclear power plants under the Price Anderson Act. Their underlying method was to extrapolate the premiums operators currently pay versus the full liability they would have to pay for full insurance in the absence of the PAA limits. The size of the estimated subsidy per reactor per year was $60 million prior to the 1982 amendments, and up to $22 million following the 1988 amendments. In a separate article in 2003, Anthony Heyes updates the 1988 estimate of $22 million per year to $33 million (2001 dollars).\n\nIn case of a nuclear accident, should claims exceed this primary liability, the PAA requires all licensees to additionally provide a maximum of $95.8 million into the accident pool – totaling roughly $10 billion if all reactors were required to pay the maximum. This is still not sufficient in the case of a serious accident, as the cost of damages could exceed $10 billion. According to the PAA, should the costs of accident damages exceed the $10 billion pool, the process for covering the remainder of the costs would be defined by Congress. In 1982, a Sandia National Laboratories study concluded that depending on the reactor size and 'unfavorable conditions' a serious nuclear accident could lead to property damages as high as $314 billion while fatalities could reach 50,000.\n\nThe primary environmental effects of nuclear power come from uranium mining, radioactive effluent emissions, and waste heat. Nuclear generation does not directly produce sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury or other pollutants associated with the combustion of fossil fuels.\n\nNuclear plants require slightly more cooling water than fossil-fuel power plants due to their slightly lower generation efficiencies. Uranium mining can use large amounts of water — for example, the Roxby Downs mine in South Australia uses of water each day and plans to increase this to per day.\n\nWhile nuclear power does not directly emit greenhouse gases, emissions occur, as with every source of energy, over a facility's life cycle: mining and fabrication of construction materials, plant construction, operation, uranium mining and milling, and plant decommissioning. A literature survey by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change of 32 greenhouse gas emissions studies, found a median value of equivalent lifecycle carbon dioxide emissions per kilowatt hour (kWh) for nuclear power.\n\nClimate and energy scientists James Hansen, Ken Caldeira, Kerry Emanuel and Tom Wigley have released an open letter stating, in part, that \n\nIn a published rebuttal to Hansen's analyses, eight energy and climate scholars say that \"nuclear power reactors are less effective at displacing greenhouse gas emissions than energy efficiency initiatives and renewable energy technologies\". They go on to argue \"that (a) its near-term potential is significantly limited compared to energy efficiency and renewable energy; (b) it displaces emissions and saves lives only at high cost and at the enhanced risk of nuclear weapons proliferation; (c) it is unsuitable for expanding access to modern energy services in developing countries; and (d) Hansen's estimates of cancer risks from exposure to radiation are flawed\". James Hansen and a colleague subsequently wrote a counter-rebuttal.\n\nMark Diesendorf and B.K. Sovacool review the \"little-known research which shows that the life-cycle CO emissions of nuclear power may become comparable with those of fossil power as the 5.4 million tonnes of high-grade uranium ore is used up over the next several decades and low-grade uranium is mined and milled using fossil fuels.\"\n\nAs the nuclear power debate continues, greenhouse gas emissions are increasing. Predictions estimate that even with draconian emission reductions within the ten years, the world will still pass 650ppm of carbon dioxide and a catastrophic average rise in temperature. Public perception is that renewable energies such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal are significantly affecting global warming. All of these sources combined only supplied 1.3% of global energy in 2013 as of coal was burned annually. This \"too little, too late\" effort may be a mass form of climate change denial, or an idealistic pursuit of green energy.\n\nAnother argument is based on a rebound effect—specific to nuclear power energy—on growth and greenhouse gas: it's not the direct effect that would matter but the effect on consumption due to changes in prices and incomes. More research in this field is needed.\n\nThe world's nuclear fleet creates about of high-level spent nuclear fuel each year. High-level radioactive waste management concerns management and disposal of highly radioactive materials created during production of nuclear power. The technical issues in accomplishing this are daunting, due to the extremely long periods radioactive wastes remain deadly to living organisms. Of particular concern are two long-lived fission products, technetium-99 (half-life 220,000 years) and iodine-129 (half-life 15.7 million years), which dominate spent nuclear fuel radioactivity after a few thousand years. The most troublesome transuranic elements in spent fuel are neptunium-237 (half-life two million years) and plutonium-239 (half-life 24,000 years). Consequently, high-level radioactive waste requires sophisticated treatment and management to successfully isolate it from the biosphere. This usually necessitates treatment, followed by a long-term management strategy involving permanent storage, disposal or transformation of the waste into a non-toxic form. However, many nuclear power by-products are usable as nuclear fuel themselves; extracting the usable energy producing contents from nuclear waste is called \"nuclear recycling\".\n\nGovernments around the world are considering a range of waste management and disposal options, usually involving deep-geologic placement, although there has been limited progress toward implementing long-term waste management solutions. This is partly because the timeframes in question when dealing with radioactive waste range from 10,000 to millions of years, according to studies based on the effect of estimated radiation doses.\n\nSince the fraction of a radioisotope's atoms decaying per unit of time is inversely proportional to its half-life, the relative radioactivity of a quantity of buried human radioactive waste would diminish over time compared to natural radioisotopes (such as the decay chain of 120 trillion tons of thorium and 40 trillion tons of uranium which are at relatively trace concentrations of parts per million each over the crust's 3 ton mass). \n\nFor instance, over a timeframe of thousands of years, after the most active short half-life radioisotopes decayed, burying U.S. nuclear waste would increase the radioactivity in the top of rock and soil in the United States () by approximately 0.1 parts per million over the cumulative amount of natural radioisotopes in such a volume, although the vicinity of the site would have a far higher concentration of artificial radioisotopes underground than such an average.\n\nNuclear waste disposal is one of the most controversial facets of the nuclear power debate. Presently, waste is mainly stored at individual reactor sites and there are over 430 locations around the world where radioactive material continues to accumulate. Experts agree that centralized underground repositories which are well-managed, guarded, and monitored, would be a vast improvement. There is an international consensus on the advisability of storing nuclear waste in deep underground repositories, but no country in the world has yet opened such a site. There are dedicated waste storage sites at the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in New Mexico and two in German salt mines, the Morsleben Repository and the Schacht Asse II.\n\nIn March 2013, climate scientists Pushker Kharecha and James Hansen published a paper in Environmental Science & Technology, entitled \"Prevented mortality and greenhouse gas emissions from historical and projected nuclear power\". It estimated an average of 1.8 million lives saved worldwide by the use of nuclear power instead of fossil fuels between 1971 and 2009. The paper examined mortality levels per unit of electrical energy produced from fossil fuels (coal and natural gas) as well as nuclear power. Kharecha and Hansen assert that their results are probably conservative, as they analyze only deaths and do not include a range of serious but non-fatal respiratory illnesses, cancers, hereditary effects and heart problems, nor do they include the fact that fossil fuel combustion in developing countries tends to have a higher carbon and air pollution footprint than in developed countries. The authors also conclude that the emission of some of carbon dioxide equivalent have been avoided by nuclear power between 1971 and 2009, and that between 2010 and 2050, nuclear power could additionally avoid up to .\n\nBenjamin K. Sovacool has reported that worldwide there have been 99 accidents at nuclear power plants. Fifty-seven accidents have occurred since the Chernobyl disaster, and 57% (56 out of 99) of all nuclear-related accidents have occurred in the USA. Serious nuclear power plant accidents include the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster (2011), Chernobyl disaster (1986), Three Mile Island accident (1979), and the SL-1 accident (1961). Nuclear-powered submarine mishaps include the K-19 reactor accident (1961), the K-27 reactor accident (1968), and the K-431 reactor accident (1985).\n\nThe effect of nuclear accidents has been a topic of debate practically since the first nuclear reactors were constructed. It has also been a key factor in public concern about nuclear facilities. Some technical measures to reduce the risk of accidents or to minimize the amount of radioactivity released to the environment have been adopted. Despite the use of such measures, \"there have been many accidents with varying effects as well near misses and incidents\".\n\nNuclear power plants are a complex energy system and opponents of nuclear power have criticized the sophistication and complexity of the technology. Helen Caldicott has said: \"... in essence, a nuclear reactor is just a very sophisticated and dangerous way to boil water – analogous to cutting a pound of butter with a chain saw.\" The 1979 Three Mile Island accident inspired Charles Perrow's book \"Normal Accidents\", where a nuclear accident occurs, resulting from an unanticipated interaction of multiple failures in a complex system. TMI was an example of a normal accident because it was deemed \"unexpected, incomprehensible, uncontrollable and unavoidable\". \n\nPerrow concluded that the failure at Three Mile Island was a consequence of the system's immense complexity. Such modern high-risk systems, he realized, were prone to failures however well they were managed. It was inevitable that they would eventually suffer what he termed a 'normal accident'. Therefore, he suggested, we might do better to contemplate a radical redesign, or if that was not possible, to abandon such technology entirely. \nCatastrophic scenarios involving terrorist attacks are also conceivable. An interdisciplinary team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) has estimated that given a three-fold increase in nuclear power from 2005 to 2055, and an unchanged accident frequency, four core damage accidents would be expected in that period.\n\nProponents of nuclear power argue that in comparison to any other form of power, nuclear power is the safest form of energy, accounting for all the risks from mining to production to storage, including the risks of spectacular nuclear accidents. Accidents in the nuclear industry have been less damaging than accidents in the hydroelectric power industry, and less damaging than the constant, incessant damage from air pollutants from fossil fuels. For instance, by running a 1000-MWe nuclear power plant including uranium mining, reactor operation and waste disposal, the radiation dose is 136 person-rem/year, while the dose is 490 person-rem/year for an equivalent coal-fired power plant. The World Nuclear Association provides a comparison of deaths from accidents in course of different forms of energy production. In their comparison, deaths per TW-yr of electricity produced from 1970 to 1992 are quoted as 885 for hydropower, 342 for coal, 85 for natural gas, and 8 for nuclear. Nuclear power plant accidents rank first in terms of their economic cost, accounting for 41 percent of all property damage attributed to energy accidents.\n\nThe Chernobyl steam explosion was a nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine. A steam explosion and graphite fire released large quantities of radioactive contamination into the atmosphere, which spread over much of Western USSR and Europe. It is considered the worst nuclear power plant accident in history, and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale (the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster). The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles, crippling the Soviet economy. The accident raised concerns about the safety of the nuclear power industry, slowing its expansion for a number of years.\n\nDespite the fact the Chernobyl disaster became a nuclear power safety debate icon, there were other nuclear accidents in USSR at the Mayak nuclear weapons production plant (nearby Chelyabinsk, Russia) and total radioactive emissions in Chelyabinsk accidents of 1949, 1957 and 1967 together were significantly higher than in Chernobyl. However, the region near Chelyabinsk was and is much more sparsely populated than the region around Chernobyl. \n\nThe United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR) has conducted 20 years of detailed scientific and epidemiological research on the effects of the Chernobyl accident. Apart from the 57 direct deaths in the accident itself, UNSCEAR predicted in 2005 that up to 4,000 additional cancer deaths related to the accident would appear \"among the 600 000 persons receiving more significant exposures (liquidators working in 1986–87, evacuees, and residents of the most contaminated areas)\". Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus have been burdened with the continuing and substantial decontamination and health care costs of the Chernobyl disaster.\n\nFollowing an earthquake, tsunami, and failure of cooling systems at Fukushima I Nuclear Power Plant and issues concerning other nuclear facilities in Japan on 11 March 2011, a nuclear emergency was declared. This was the first time a nuclear emergency had been declared in Japan, and 140,000 residents within of the plant were evacuated. Explosions and a fire resulted in dangerous levels of radiation, sparking a stock market collapse and panic-buying in supermarkets. The UK, France and some other countries advised their nationals to consider leaving Tokyo, in response to fears of spreading nuclear contamination. The accidents drew attention to ongoing concerns over Japanese nuclear seismic design standards and caused other governments to re-evaluate their nuclear programs. John Price, a former member of the Safety Policy Unit at the UK's National Nuclear Corporation, said that it \"might be 100 years before melting fuel rods can be safely removed from Japan's Fukushima nuclear plant\".\n\nThe Three Mile Island accident was a core meltdown in Unit 2 (a pressurized water reactor manufactured by Babcock & Wilcox) of the Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating Station in Dauphin County, Pennsylvania near Harrisburg, United States in 1979. It was the most significant accident in the history of the USA commercial nuclear power generating industry, resulting in the release of approximately 2.5 million curies of radioactive noble gases, and approximately 15 curies of iodine-131. Cleanup started in August 1979 and officially ended in December 1993, with a total cleanup cost of about $. The incident was rated a five on the seven-point International Nuclear Event Scale: Accident With Wider Consequences.\n\nThe health effects of the Three Mile Island nuclear accident are widely, but not universally, agreed to be very low level. However, there was an evacuation of 140,000 pregnant women and pre-school age children from the area. The accident crystallized anti-nuclear safety concerns among activists and the general public, resulted in new regulations for the nuclear industry, and has been cited as a contributor to the decline of new reactor construction that was already underway in the 1970s.\n\nThe nuclear power industry has moved to improve engineering design. Generation IV reactors are now in late stage design and development to improve safety, sustainability, efficiency, and cost. Key to the latest designs is the concept of passive nuclear safety. Passive nuclear safety does not require operator actions or electronic feedback in order to shut down safely in the event of a particular type of emergency (usually overheating resulting from a loss of coolant or loss of coolant flow). This is in contrast to older-yet-common reactor designs, where the natural tendency for the reaction was to accelerate rapidly from increased temperatures. In such a case, cooling systems must be operative to prevent meltdown. Past design mistakes like Fukushima in Japan did not anticipate that a tsunami generated by an earthquake would disable the backup systems that were supposed to stabilize the reactor after the earthquake. New reactors with passive nuclear safety eliminate this failure mode.\n\nThe United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission has formally engaged in pre-application activities with four applicants who have Generation IV reactors. Of those four applicants' designs, two are molten salt reactors, one is a compact fast reactor, and one is a Modular High temperature gas-cooled reactor.\n\nThis is a list of nuclear whistleblowers. They are mainly former employees of nuclear power facilities who have spoken out about safety concerns.\nA major concern in the nuclear debate is what the long-term effects of living near or working in a nuclear power station are. These concerns typically center around the potential for increased risks of cancer. However, studies conducted by non-profit, neutral agencies have found no compelling evidence of correlation between nuclear power and risk of cancer.\n\nThere has been considerable research done on the effect of low-level radiation on humans. Debate on the applicability of Linear no-threshold model versus Radiation hormesis and other competing models continues, however, the predicted low rate of cancer with low dose means that large sample sizes are required in order to make meaningful conclusions. A study conducted by the National Academy of Science found that carcinogenic effects of radiation does increase with dose. The largest study on nuclear industry workers in history involved nearly a half-million individuals and concluded that a 1–2% of cancer deaths were likely due to occupational dose. This was on the high range of what theory predicted by LNT, but was \"statistically compatible\".\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has a factsheet that outlines 6 different studies. In 1990 the United States Congress requested the National Cancer Institute to conduct a study of cancer mortality rates around nuclear plants and other facilities covering 1950 to 1984 focusing on the change after operation started of the respective facilities. They concluded in no link. In 2000 the University of Pittsburgh found no link to heightened cancer deaths in people living within 5 miles of plant at the time of the Three Mile Island accident. The same year, the Illinois Public Health Department found no statistical abnormality of childhood cancers in counties with nuclear plants. In 2001 the Connecticut Academy of Science and Engineering confirmed that radiation emissions were negligibly low at the Connecticut Yankee Nuclear Power Plant. Also that year, the American Cancer Society investigated cancer clusters around nuclear plants and concluded no link to radiation noting that cancer clusters occur regularly due to unrelated reasons. Again in 2001, the Florida Bureau of Environmental Epidemiology reviewed claims of increased cancer rates in counties with nuclear plants, however, using the same data as the claimants, they observed no abnormalities.\n\nScientists learned about exposure to high level radiation from studies of the effects of bombing populations at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. However, it is difficult to trace the relationship of low level radiation exposure to resulting cancers and mutations. This is because the latency period between exposure and effect can be 25 years or more for cancer and a generation or more for genetic damage. Since nuclear generating plants have a brief history, it is early to judge the effects.\n\nMost human exposure to radiation comes from natural background radiation. Natural sources of radiation amount to an average annual radiation dose of . The average person receives about from medical procedures and 10 mrem from consumer products per year, as of May 2011. According to the National Safety Council, people living within of a nuclear power plant receive an additional 0.01 mrem per year. Living within 50 miles of a coal plant adds 0.03 mrem per year.\n\nIn its 2000 report, \"Sources and effects of ionizing radiation\", the UNSCEAR also gives some values for areas where the radiation background is very high. You can for example have some value like on average in Yangjiang, China (meaning 3.24 mSv per year or 324 mrem), or in Kerala, India (meaning 15.8 mSv per year or 1580 mrem). They are also some other \"hot spots\", with some maximum values of in the hot springs of Ramsar, Iran (that would be equivalent to 149 mSv per year pr 14,900 mrem per year). The highest background seem to be in Guarapari with a reported 175 mSv per year (or 17,500 mrem per year), and maximum value given in the UNSCEAR report (on the beaches). A study made on the Kerala radiation background, using a cohort of 385,103 residents, concludes that \"showed no excess cancer risk from exposure to terrestrial gamma radiation\" and that \"Although the statistical power of the study might not be adequate due to the low dose, our cancer incidence study [...] suggests it is unlikely that estimates of risk at low doses are substantially greater than currently believed.\"\n\nCurrent guidelines established by the NRC, require extensive emergency planning, between nuclear power plants, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and the local governments. Plans call for different zones, defined by distance from the plant and prevailing weather conditions and protective actions. In the reference cited, the plans detail different categories of emergencies and the protective actions including possible evacuation.\n\nA German study on childhood cancer in the vicinity of nuclear power plants called \"the KiKK study\" was published in December 2007. According to Ian Fairlie, it \"resulted in a public outcry and media debate in Germany which has received little attention elsewhere\". It has been established \"partly as a result of an earlier study by Körblein and Hoffmann which had found statistically significant increases in solid cancers (54%), and in leukemia (76%) in children aged less than 5 within of 15 German nuclear power plant sites. It red a 2.2-fold increase in leukemias and a 1.6-fold increase in solid (mainly embryonal) cancers among children living within 5 km of all German nuclear power stations.\" In 2011 a new study of the KiKK data was incorporated into an assessment by the Committee on Medical Aspects of Radiation in the Environment (COMARE) of the incidence of childhood leukemia around British nuclear power plants. It found that the control sample of population used for comparison in the German study may have been incorrectly selected and other possible contributory factors, such as socio-economic ranking, were not taken into consideration. The committee concluded that there is no significant evidence of an association between risk of childhood leukemia (in under 5 year olds) and living in proximity to a nuclear power plant.\n\nSome developing countries which plan to go nuclear have very poor industrial safety records and problems with political corruption. Inside China, and outside the country, the speed of the nuclear construction program has raised safety concerns. Prof. He Zuoxiu, who was involved with China's atomic bomb program, has said that plans to expand production of nuclear energy twentyfold by 2030 could be disastrous, as China was seriously underprepared on the safety front.\n\nChina's fast-expanding nuclear sector is opting for cheap technology that \"will be 100 years old by the time dozens of its reactors reach the end of their lifespans\", according to diplomatic cables from the US embassy in Beijing. The rush to build new nuclear power plants may \"create problems for effective management, operation and regulatory oversight\" with the biggest potential bottleneck being human resources – \"coming up with enough trained personnel to build and operate all of these new plants, as well as regulate the industry\". The challenge for the government and nuclear companies is to \"keep an eye on a growing army of contractors and subcontractors who may be tempted to cut corners\". China is advised to maintain nuclear safeguards in a business culture where quality and safety are sometimes sacrificed in favor of cost-cutting, profits, and corruption. China has asked for international assistance in training more nuclear power plant inspectors.\n\nAccording to Mark Z. Jacobson, the growth of nuclear power has \"historically increased the ability of nations to obtain or enrich uranium for nuclear weapons, and a large-scale worldwide increase in nuclear energy facilities would exacerbate this problem, putting the world at greater risk of a nuclear war or terrorism catastrophe\". The historic link between energy facilities and weapons is evidenced by the secret development or attempted development of weapons capabilities in nuclear power facilities in Pakistan, India, Iraq (prior to 1981), Iran, and to some extent in North Korea.\n\nFour AP1000 reactors, which were designed by the American Westinghouse Electric Company are currently, as of 2011, being built in China and a further two AP1000 reactors are to be built in the USA. Hyperion Power Generation, which is designing modular reactor assemblies that are proliferation resistant, is a privately owned US corporation, as is Terrapower which has the financial backing of Bill Gates and his Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.\n\nNuclear reactors become preferred targets during military conflict and, over the past three decades, have been repeatedly attacked during military air strikes, occupations, invasions and campaigns:\n\nAccording to a 2004 report by the U.S. Congressional Budget Office, \"The human, environmental, and economic costs from a successful attack on a nuclear power plant that results in the release of substantial quantities of radioactive material to the environment could be great.\" The United States 9/11 Commission has said that nuclear power plants were potential targets originally considered for the 11 September 2001 attacks. If terrorist groups could sufficiently damage safety systems to cause a core meltdown at a nuclear power plant, and/or sufficiently damage spent fuel pools, such an attack could lead to a widespread radioactive contamination.\n\nIf nuclear power use is to expand significantly, nuclear facilities will have to be made extremely safe from attacks that could release massive quantities of radioactivity into the environment and community. New reactor designs have features of passive safety, such as the flooding of the reactor core without active intervention by reactor operators. But these safety measures have generally been developed and studied with respect to accidents, not to the deliberate reactor attack by a terrorist group. However, the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission now also requires new reactor license applications to consider security during the design stage.\n\nAn additional concern with nuclear power plants is that if the by-products of nuclear fission (the nuclear waste generated by the plant) were to be left unprotected it could be stolen and used as a radiological weapon, colloquially known as a \"dirty bomb\". There were incidents in post-Soviet Russia of nuclear plant workers attempting to sell nuclear materials for this purpose. For example, there was such an incident in Russia in 1999 where plant workers attempted to sell 5 grams of radioactive material on the open market, and an incident in 1993 where Russian workers were caught attempting to sell 4.5 kilograms of enriched uranium. \n\nThere are additional concerns that the transportation of nuclear waste along roadways or railways opens it up for potential theft. The United Nations has since called upon world leaders to improve security in order to prevent radioactive material falling into the hands of terrorists, and such fears have been used as justifications for centralized, permanent, and secure waste repositories and increased security along transportation routes.\n\nProponents state that the spent fissile fuel is not radioactive enough to create any sort of effective nuclear weapon, in a traditional sense where the radioactive material is the means of explosion. Nuclear reprocessing plants also acquire uranium from spent reactor fuel and take the remaining waste into their custody.\n\nThere is little support across the world for building new nuclear reactors, a 2011 poll for the BBC indicates. The global research agency GlobeScan, commissioned by BBC News, polled 23,231 people in 23 countries from July to September 2011, several months after the Fukushima nuclear disaster. In countries with existing nuclear programs, people are significantly more opposed than they were in 2005, with only the UK and US bucking the trend and being more supportive of nuclear power. Most believe that boosting energy efficiency and renewable energy can meet their needs.\n\nJust 22% agreed that \"nuclear power is relatively safe and an important source of electricity, and we should build more nuclear power plants\". In contrast, 71% thought their country \"could almost entirely replace coal and nuclear energy within 20 years by becoming highly energy-efficient and focusing on generating energy from the Sun and wind\". Globally, 39% want to continue using existing reactors without building new ones, while 30% would like to shut everything down now.\nIn 2011, Deutsche Bank analysts concluded that \"the global impact of the Fukushima accident is a fundamental shift in public perception with regard to how a nation prioritizes and values its populations health, safety, security, and natural environment when determining its current and future energy pathways\". As a consequence, \"renewable energy will be a clear long-term winner in most energy systems, a conclusion supported by many voter surveys conducted over the past few weeks. At the same time, we consider natural gas to be, at the very least, an important transition fuel, especially in those regions where it is considered secure\".\n\nA poll in the European Union for February–March 2005 showed 37% were in favor of nuclear energy and 55% opposed, leaving 8% undecided. The same agency ran another poll in Oct–Nov 2006 that showed 14% favored building new nuclear plants, 34% favored maintaining the same number, and 39% favoured reducing the number of operating plants, leaving 13% undecided. This poll showed that respondents with a lower level of education and that women were less likely to approve.\n\nIn June 2011, both UK market research firm Ipsos MORI and the Japanese Asahi Shimbun newspaper found drops in support for nuclear power technology in most countries, with support continuing in a number including the US. The Ipsos MORI poll found that nuclear had the lowest support of any established technology for generating electricity, with 38%. Coal was at 48% support while solar energy, wind power and hydro all found favor with more than 90% of those surveyed.\n\nA 2011 poll found that skepticism over nuclear power had grown in Sweden following Japan's nuclear crisis. 36 percent of respondents wanted to phase-out nuclear power, up from 15 percent two years previous. An equal percentage of 36 percent were in favor of keeping nuclear power at its present level, and another 21 percent favored increasing nuclear power, with 7% undecided.\n\nWhat had been growing acceptance of nuclear power in the United States was eroded sharply following the 2011 Japanese nuclear accidents, with support for building nuclear power plants in the U.S. dropping slightly lower than it was immediately after the Three Mile Island accident in 1979, according to a CBS News poll. Only 43 percent of those polled 10 days after the Fukushima nuclear emergency said they would approve building new power plants in the United States.\n\nA Gallup poll in the US in March 2015 found support for nuclear power at 51%, with 43% opposed. This was the lowest level of support for nuclear since 2001, and significantly down from the 2010 peak of 62% in favor, versus 33% opposed. Similarly, a Roper poll in 2013 found support for new nuclear power plants at 55%, with 41% opposed, down from the peak level of support in 2010 of 70% in favor versus 27% opposed. A Gallup poll released in 2016 showed that Americans have switched their opinion on Nuclear energy, with 54% opposed and 44% in support. This is the first time in American history that more people were measured as opposing nuclear energy than supporting it.\n\nThe two energy sources that attracted the highest levels of support in the \"2007 MIT Energy Survey\" were solar power and wind power. Outright majorities would choose to \"increase a lot\" use of these two sources, and over three out of four Americans would like to increase these sources in the U.S. energy portfolio. Fourteen percent of respondents would like to see nuclear power \"increase a lot\".\n\nAs of 12 October 2017, a total of 448 nuclear reactors were operating in 30 countries, four more than the historical maximum of 444 in 2002. Since 2002, utilities have started up 26 units and disconnected 32 including six units at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Japan. The current world reactor fleet has a total nominal capacity of about 392 gigawatts. Despite six fewer units operating in 2011 than in 2002, the capacity is about 9 gigawatts higher. The numbers of new operative reactors, final shutdowns, and new initiated constructions according to International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in recent years are as follows:\nStephanie Cooke has argued that the cost of building new reactors is extremely high, as are the risks involved. Most utilities have said that they won't build new plants without government loan guarantees. There are also bottlenecks at factories that produce reactor pressure vessels and other equipment, and there is a shortage of qualified personnel to build and operate the reactors, although the recent acceleration in nuclear power plant construction is drawing a substantial expansion of the heavy engineering capability.\n\nFollowing the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, the International Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035. Platts has reported that \"the crisis at Japan's Fukushima nuclear plants has prompted leading energy-consuming countries to review the safety of their existing reactors and cast doubt on the speed and scale of planned expansions around the world\". In 2011, \"The Economist\" reported that nuclear power \"looks dangerous, unpopular, expensive and risky\", and that \"it is replaceable with relative ease and could be forgone with no huge structural shifts in the way the world works\".\n\nIn September 2011, German engineering giant Siemens announced it will withdraw entirely from the nuclear industry, as a response to the Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan. The company is to boost its work in the renewable energy sector. Commenting on the German government's policy to close nuclear plants, Werner Sinn, president of the Ifo Institute for Economic Research at the University of Munich, stated: \"It is wrong to shut down the atomic power plants, because this is a cheap source of energy, and wind and solar power are by no means able to provide a replacement. They are much more expensive, and the energy that comes out is of inferior quality. Energy-intensive industries will move out, and the competitiveness of the German manufacturing sector will be reduced or wages will be depressed.\"\n\nIn 2011, Mycle Schneider spoke of a global downward trend in the nuclear power industry:\n\nThe international nuclear lobby has pursued a 10-year-long, massive propaganda strategy aimed at convincing decision-makers that atomic technology has a bright future as a low-carbon energy option... however, most of the high-flying nuclear plans never materialized. The historic maximum of reactors operating worldwide was achieved in 2002 with 444 units. In the European Union the historic peak was reached as early as 1988 with 177 reactors, of which only 134 are left. The only new projects underway in Europe are heavily over budget and much delayed.\nAs \"Time\" magazine rightly stated in March, \"Nuclear power is expanding only in places where taxpayers and ratepayers can be compelled to foot the bill.\" China is building 27 – or more than 40 percent – of the 65 units officially under construction around the world. Even there, though, nuclear is fading as an energy option. While China has invested the equivalent of about $10 billion per year into nuclear power in recent years, in 2010 it spent twice as much on wind energy alone and some $54.5 billion on all renewables combined.\nIn contrast, proponents of nuclear power argue that nuclear power has killed by far the fewest number of people per terawatt hour of any type of power generation, and it has a very small effect on the environment with effectively zero emissions of any kind. This is argued even taking into account the Chernobyl and Fukushima accidents, in which few people were killed directly and few excess cancers will be caused by releases of radioactivity to the environment.\n\nSome proponents acknowledge that most people will not accept this sort of statistical argument nor will they believe reassuring statements from industry or government. Indeed, the industry itself has created fear of nuclear power by pointing out that radioactivity can be dangerous. Improved communication by industry might help to overcome current fears regarding nuclear power, but it will be a difficult task to change current perceptions in the general population.\n\nBut with regard to the proposition that \"Improved communication by industry might help to overcome current fears regarding nuclear power\", Princeton University Physicist M. V. Ramana says that the basic problem is that there is \"distrust of the social institutions that manage nuclear energy\", and a 2001 survey by the European Commission found that \"only 10.1 percent of Europeans trusted the nuclear industry\". This public distrust is periodically reinforced by safety violations by nuclear companies, or through ineffectiveness or corruption on the part of nuclear regulatory authorities. Once lost, says Ramana, trust is extremely difficult to regain. Faced with public antipathy, the nuclear industry has \"tried a variety of strategies to persuade the public to accept nuclear power\", including the publication of numerous \"fact sheets\" that discuss issues of public concern. Ramana says that none of these strategies have been very successful.\n\nIn March 2012, E.ON UK and RWE npower announced they would be pulling out of developing new nuclear power plants in the UK, placing the future of nuclear power in the UK in doubt. More recently, Centrica (who own British Gas) pulled out of the race on 4 February 2013 by letting go its 20% option on four new nuclear plants. Cumbria county council (a local authority) turned down an application for a final waste repository on 30 January 2013 — there is currently no alternative site on offer.\n\nIn terms of current nuclear status and future prospects:\n\nBrazil, China, India, Japan and the Netherlands generate more electricity from wind energy than from nuclear sources. New power generation using solar power grew by 33% in 2015, wind power over 17%, and 1.3% for nuclear power, exclusively due to development in China.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4631133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4631133", "title": "Overtime ban", "text": "Overtime ban\n\nAn overtime ban is a form of industrial action where employees limit their working time to the hours specified in their contracts, refusing to work any overtime. Overtime bans are less disruptive than strike action, and since there is no breach of contract by the employees there is less chance of disciplinary action by the employer than there is with strikes. However, an overtime ban can have a significant impact on industries which normally operate outside of regular office hours, such as emergency services, public transport, or retail.\n\nAn overtime ban is similar to a work-to-rule, in that both involve employees refusing to do more than is strictly required of them. However, and in contrast with a work-to-rule, when an overtime ban is in place workers may still perform duties not required of them, providing they do not go outside their contracted hours.\n"}
{"id": "18200213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18200213", "title": "Prostitution in Croatia", "text": "Prostitution in Croatia\n\nProstitution in Croatia is illegal but common. Forcible prostitution, any kind of brothels, or procuring are treated as a felony, while voluntary prostitution is considered to be infraction against public order (for prostitutes only; clients are not in violation of law). Like in many other Southeast European countries, the problem of human trafficking for the purposes of sex is big in Croatia.\n\nMany women from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Eastern Europe, especially from the Ukraine, work as prostitutes in Croatia. Some prostitutes commute to the island of Hvar, which is a popular tourist destination.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, prostitution was legal. In Zagreb it was advertised as a tourist attraction and contributed to the city's economy. Tkalčićeva Street was the main centre for brothels. At one stage every other building was a bordello. To open a brothel, the owner had to register at the town hall and received a licence. The licence required the brothel to be well run and provide a quality service. The women working in the brothels had to have a twice weekly medical examination. Brothels were not allowed to advertise their presence, but a discrete, uncommonly coloured lantern was allowed to be placed outside.\n\nThe best known brothels in Zagreb were the \"Kod Zelene Lampe\" (Green Lantern's), which was the most expensive, the \"Pick\", and the \"Klub\" which had cabaret until 5 a.m. The \"Bijela Lađa\" (\"White Vessel\") was known for its mandolin music and fine wine. The Zagreb brothels continued to operate until World War II.\n\nFollowing the creation of communist Yugoslavia after WWII, prostitution was made illegal.\n\nIn the 1970s, Zagreb became known as the centre of prostitution in Yugoslavia, with the highest number of prostitutes. Women from other areas of Yugoslavia, such as Sarajevo, came to the city because of the higher rates for prostitutes compared to their own areas.\n\nThe economic crisis, post-communist turmoil and subsequent arrival of international military personnel, demand for prostitution rose. The opening of borders allowed foreign prostitutes to come to the country.\n\nTwo acts of law criminalise prostitution and related activities. the \"Act on the Misdemeanours against Public Peace and Order\" criminalises the selling of sex and some third-party involvement. The Criminal Code also makes third-party involvement illegal.\n\nThis act was added to Croatian legislation in the year 2000. Article 7 forbids using premises for prostitution and enabling or helping another person to engage in prostitution. The punishment is a fine or up to 60 days' imprisonment. Article 12 forbids 'falling into' prostitution. This is interpreted as repeatedly selling sex. The punishment is a fine or up to 30 days' imprisonment. Additionally, offenders may be made to undergo STI and HIV testing and treatment if infected. They can also be expelled from the area the offence took place in for a period of 30 days to 6 months.\n\nSince the 1997 Croatian criminal law reform, certain activities related to prostitution were included in the Criminal Code. Trafficking in human beings was added to the code in 2003.\n\nWithin the code, Article 175, \"Offences against Sexual Freedom\", criminalises organising, inciting a person to, or abetting prostitution. The punishment is 6 months' to 5 years' imprisonment, or 1 to 10 years if there is any compulsion (force, threat, deceit, abuse of power) involved. Article 162, \"Section of Offences of Sexual Abuse of Children\", increases punishment to 1 to 10 years' imprisonment if children are involved, or to 3 to 15 years if there is also any compulsion.\n\nApart from Article 175 of the Criminal Code criminalising purchasing sexual services from underage, coerced or trafficked prostitutes, clients commit no offence.\n\nIn 2012, the Ministry of the Interior proposed criminalising clients but this was never presented to the Croatian Parliament. The Ministry also made similar proposals in May 2016.\n\nCroatia is a destination, source, and transit country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Migrants in transit, particularly from Afghanistan and Pakistan, are forced into debt bondage by their smugglers to pay off smuggling fees. Croatian women and girls, some of whom respond to false job offers online, are exploited in sex trafficking within the country and elsewhere in Europe. In previous years, traffickers target Croatian girls in state institutions and subjected them to sex trafficking. Women and girls from the Balkans and Central Europe are subjected to sex trafficking in Croatia.\n\nArticles 105 and 106 of the criminal code criminalise all forms of trafficking and prescribe penalties of one to 15 years' imprisonment. The government investigated seven trafficking cases, the same number investigated in 2015, involving 11 alleged perpetrators. The government prosecuted 11 defendants (five for child sex trafficking, two for sex trafficking, and four for forced labour), compared to four defendants in 2015. Courts convicted seven traffickers (eight in 2015), five of which were appealable verdicts and two were final verdicts with sentences of six years' imprisonment for a sex trafficking case.\n\nPolice identified 17 sex trafficking victims in 2016, compared to 38 sex trafficking victims in 2015. The Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy (MDFYSP) spent approximately 400,000 kunas (US$56,740) to support two shelters and provide monthly stipends for victims, compared to 446,541 kunas (US$63,340) in 2015. The government provided shelter for one child, two females, and one male.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Croatia as a 'Tier 2' country.\n"}
{"id": "8983933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8983933", "title": "Providence (religious movement)", "text": "Providence (religious movement)\n\nProvidence (officially Christian Gospel Mission) is a Christian new religious movement founded by Jung Myung-seok in 1980; Jung was formerly a member of the Unification movement and was strongly influenced by it. He founded a church that was formerly associated with Methodism but was expelled from that community. Most of its members live in South Korea. Providence has been widely referred to by the media as a cult.\n\nFollowing accusations against him by South Korean police of rape, fraud, and embezzlement, Jung fled the country in 1999 and lived as a fugitive in Taiwan, Hong Kong, and China before being arrested by Chinese police in May 2007. In April 2009, after being convicted of rape, the Supreme Court of South Korea sentenced him to 10 years imprisonment. Jung was released on 18 February 2018. \nThe sect has also been called Jesus Morning Star (JMS), Setsuri (\"Providence\" in Japanese), International Christian Association (ICA), the Morning Star Church (MS Church), the Bright Moon Church, and Ae-chun Church ().\n\nJung Myung-seok was born in 1945. He is also known by the names of Joshua Jung, Joshua Lee and Pastor Joshua. In the 1970s he was a member of the Unification Church, whose teachings have been alleged to resemble Jung's \"quite closely\". In 1980, Jung founded the Ae-chun Church (), which was affiliated with the Methodist Church. The church was later expelled from the Methodists and he changed its name to the International Christian Association () in the mid 1980s. A rift occurred in the group in 1986, according to the magazine and publisher, when the vice president of Providence attempted to act on the sex scandals surrounding the group, but he was shut out of the organizational system and Jung consolidated all power around himself.\n\nIn October 1999 the organization changed its name to Christian Gospel Mission ().\n\nThe Providence sex scandal received wide public attention following Seoul Broadcasting System (SBS)'s exposé, broadcast on March 20, 1999 on its TV news magazine, \"\". Over 100 alleged victims were contacted for information in the making of this series. JMS (as Providence was known then) countered with lawsuits to suppress the broadcast, libel litigation, and an organized two-month barrage of phone calls, as many as 60,000 calls per day.\n\nThe broadcast resulted in Jung fleeing the country one day later. Jung would live freely outside of Korea for the next 7 years, until apprehended by the Chinese authorities in 2006, and repatriated to Korea the following year.\n\nSexual abuse allegation continued to surface against Jung overseas, in Hong Kong, China, Taiwan, Japan, and other locations. The news show \"The Unanswered\" (, literally: \"I Want to Know it\") followed with additional episodes covering Jung's activities abroad. In one episode, SBS reported how female members of Providence had been flown to and held against their will at Jung's hideout in Anshan in the Chinese province Liaoning on the border to Korea. One 28-year-old Korean who in April 2005 managed to escape, confided how she was sexually violated multiple times by Jung.\n\nIn Japan, there were 2,000 Providence members as of 2006, almost entirely students and graduates of prestigious colleges, and 60% women. During his sojourns in Japan, Jung summoned upwards of 10 women on an almost daily basis, and under the false pretext of running a \"health check\" would have improper sexual encounters with them. Jung's aides are said to have imposed strict secrecy of these encounters with Jung, threatening the women with condemnation to hell if they told anyone what he had done.\n\nIn Taiwan too, similar incidents have been reported, where many female members of his organization were ordered to undress for a \"health check\", be subjected various forms of sexual abuse, including having sex with him to wipe off their sins.\n\nThe anti-Providence group EXODUS (founded in 1999) held a press conference in April 2006, in which four unidentified women wearing bucket hats and surgical masks covering their faces, accused Jung of organized sex crimes against themselves and other women, who required medical treatment.\n\nJung denied the charges, his followers said. In 2008, in response to the rape allegations, Providence pastor Bae Jae-yong said that it was a \"distorted rumor that was created by the people who have slandered [Jung]\" and that \"all fundamental truth will be clarified by [Jung] at the prosecutor's office\".\n\nAccording to allegations by ex-Providence members, as of 2012, some 500 to over 1,000 women members were still being groomed for future sexual exploitation by Jung. Known internally as the \"Evergreens\" (), these female members are said to comprise a \"reserve corps\" for \"sex bribes\" (), a term for sexual favors accorded to those exercising power. The \"Evergreens\" are educated and handled by 10 women in Providence's leadership. Jo Gyeong-suk, former head of the group's Seoul branch and herself an alleged victim, stated salvation through sexual union with Jung was part of its canon. According to Jo, \"not a few of those women committed suicide. They become severely depressed and receive psychiatric treatment, suffer various illnesses and social phobias as a result of the stress, and are unable to marry.\" The accusers added that Providence leader Jung, even while serving sentence in prison, is supplied with photograph profiles of female members, for him to make selections on which women would be inducted as \"Evergreens\".\n\nProvidence leader Jung fled Korea after SBS reported the sexual abuse he allegedly committed by Jung. However, he was not officially charged until 2001. At the end of the trial in 2002, a male witness who had testified that there was no sexual exploitation from 1993-4 was found guilty of perjury, and received a 1-year prison sentence.\n\nIn 2001, Jung was investigated by Taiwanese authorities on charges of sexual assault, but he left the country. Jung, having been wanted by Interpol since 2002, was arrested in Hong Kong in July 2003 for overstaying his visa, but was released three days later on a (US$1,3 million ) bail. When Hong Kong authorities approved extradition to Korea, Jung fled the extradition hearing. An Interpol Red Notice was issued on Jung in 2004. In 2006, South Korean authorities put Jung on an international wanted list on rape charges, and after learning that Jung had fled to China, the South Korean government officially asked China in November 2006 to extradite him.\n\nA South Korean woman and a Japanese woman filed a criminal suit in 2003 against Jung for raping them. In January 2008, the Supreme Court of South Korea awarded the two females (US$52000 ) and (US$10400) in damages for rape. The court said Jung forced the followers to have sex with him, saying that it is a religious behavior meant to save their souls. Providence followers started riots outside of newspapers that reported the court's verdict, broke into the Seoul office of the leading newspaper \"The Dong-a Ilbo\" trashing office furniture, and demanded the removal of articles critical of Jung.\n\nAfter about 8 years on the run, Chinese Ministry of Public Security announced that Jung had been arrested in Beijing by Chinese police on May 1, 2007. ruled in September 2007 to extradite Jung, a decision upheld by the Supreme People's Court. He was extradited back to South Korea to stand charges on February 20, 2008. Jung was also charged with fraud and embezzlement of church funds.\n\nIn the criminal case heard by the , former members told the court that Jung was provided with female members of his sect as \"gifts\", and he would then have sex them on a religious pretext. Reportedly Jung would be shown photographs of female members of his church, and once he chooses his \"sexual gift\", she would be conveyed to his place of stay outside Korea.\n\nIn August 2008, Jung was convicted for raping female followers and sentenced by the Seoul Central District court to six years imprisonment. On February 10, 2009, the added four years to the district court's sentence of six years, overturning one of the lower court's acquittals and finding Jung guilty on a total of four counts of rape. Jung appealed his 10 years imprisonment sentence to the Supreme Court of South Korea, but the sentence was upheld in April 2009.\n\nOne of the sexually assaulted women subsequently filed a civil lawsuit against Jung. In its verdict in November 2009 ruled that \"the plaintiff's right to bodily integrity was violated and she suffered psychological pain as a result of the sexual violence of defendant... The defendant is obligated to compensated plaintiff for her pain.\" and that Jung should pay in compensation.\n\nProvidence's core teaching are found in a series of unpublished precepts called the \"30 Lessons\", which bear considerable resemblance to the \"Divine Principle\" of the Unification movement. According to Tahk Myeong-hwan, nine of the 30 lessons exhibit a \"considerable level of resemblance\" with the \"Divine Principle\". The lessons are based on a numerological interpretation which identifies the sect's leader as the Second Coming of Christ.\n\nOne lesson implies that those who do not \"meet\" him will not go to Heaven; another that any who betray him are committing a grave crime. During the instruction of the advanced level of the \"30 Lessons\", Jung is taught to be the Messiah, proven through the numerological interpretation of prophesied dates and times in the book of Daniel, although more recent statements from a representative seems to contradict this claim.\n\nLike the Unification movement, Providence preaches the advent of the \"Completed Testament Era\". Providence furthermore allegorize the relationship between God and man to that between the groom and bride, or two lovers. While both Unification movement and Providence teach that Original sin was caused by Eve's intercourse with the fallen angel turned Satan, Providence teaches this can be redeemed by having sex with Jung Myung-seok.\n\nAlthough some of the teachings are a carefully guarded secret within the sect, scholars such as who analyzed and summarized the sect's beliefs relied on documented testimonies as well as interviews with ex-members that included victims. He also obtained notes from ex-members which were used in the \"bible study\", as instructions in the \"30 lessons\" were conventionally called within the sect.\n\nInitiates into the sect are initially approached by being invited into an \"activity circle\", i.e., sports or music clubs in school; the inductees learn only later when taken to \"bible study\" that religion constitutes part of the \"circle\" activity. In this manner, Providence forms non-religious organisations for the purpose of attracting young people without initially revealing the religious nature of the group or their real motives, a practice ruled \"fraudulent\" under law by the Japanese Supreme Court.\n\nChristian Gospel Mission is proselytizing under different names in different regions. \"Providence\" or \"Providence Church\" in Europe and the US, \"Setsuri\" (, Japanese for \"providence\") in Japan, the \"Bright Moon Church\", the \"Morning Star Church\", and \"Jesus Morning Star\" (JMS). Each church branch that follows Jung's teaching keeps its own name (e.g. Nak-seong-dae Church, Seoul Church, etc.).\n\nProvidence began operating in Australia during 1997. Members of Providence have reported to been actively recruiting for new members at the Australian National University. On April 9, 2014, the Australian government-funded television network Special Broadcasting Service reported on their activities in Australia, including statements by former members that they sought young attractive women. Providence refused numerous requests for a spokesperson to be interviewed for the program in Australia and Korea. The organization's Chief of External Affairs denied in writing to answer specific questions about the group's Australian activities; however, he did disclose that it had charitable status for tax purposes.\n\nIn May 2016, Australian magazine \"Crikey\" revealed that an Australian Taxation Office (ATO) employee had been whitewashing the Wikipedia article on Providence. Operating from a work computer since August 2015, the lawyer had removed negative press coverage from the article and inserted glowing praise of Jung, while casting doubt on Jung's prison conviction. The woman, who denied it at first, eventually admitted that she had made the edits. The ATO's Fraud Prevention and Internal Investigations Unit declined to take any action.\n\nProvidence has been reported about in Hong Kong, known as The Bright Moon Church there (). In October 2006 a former member told \"Oriental Daily News\" that it has about 100 core members in Hong Kong, including many medical graduates and some assistant professors. Though it has been in Hong Kong for years, its slow development kept it fairly unknown until its media exposure. Providence temporarily created an organization to run various community activities, known as the United Culture and Arts Network (UCAN).\n\nProvidence became active in Japan around 1985 or 1987. In 2006 the national newspaper \"Asahi Shimbun\" reported that Providence is \"causing serious social problems in Japan\", labeling it as a \"cult\" and \"sect\". It also reported that the organization was pressuring members to live together, make regular donations, marry within the organization, and follow the strict guidance of its founder.\n\nThe group's church usually consisted of a single apartment room, where their religious studies occurred. Sometimes the church was where some of the faithful cohabitated. There were some 40 such churches across Japanese cities as of 2006. Members as students working part-time jobs were expected to contribute a minimum of at weekly church service, and as full-salaried wage-earners, monthly tithes and bonus-time donations. Believers were instructed to live frugally on cheap food and never indulge in alcohol. They were forbidden from dating, but at a suitable time married within the group in mass ceremonies. Although the Supreme Court of Japan in 1996 ruled mass weddings performed by the Unification Church were invalid, more than 300 Japanese members of Providence were wed in six mass ceremonies held between 1996 and 2006 modeled on the Unification Church. While being wanted on rape charges, Jung at a July 2003 mass wedding urged the couples via a big-screen Internet connection to have babies to increase the number of Providence members.\n\nPolice raided eight Providence facilities in Chiba on suspicion a senior member illegally obtained residence status. They also searched a facility in the city's Chuo Ward. The senior member, a Korean, was arrested for overstaying her visa. It was learned that Providence recruited \"high class, high income\" men and selected women for \"style and looks\".\n\nIt has been said that over 100 women have fallen victim of Jung's sexual transgressions in Japan alone.\n\n\"The New Zealand Herald\" reported that Providence is recruiting young women in universities, shopping centres and churches. The University of Auckland issued a warning to student groups, and a parent support group for those whose children have been recruited or impacted was established. The Presbyterian Church of Auckland stated that its members are also being targeted. A 22-year-old University of Auckland student said that while a member she participated in photoshoots, fashion shows, and a Bible study course which introduced Jeong as the new messiah. A Providence leader was approached for comment, but failed to turn up to a meeting with Herald staff.\n\nProvidence's earliest activity in Taiwan was in 1988. It is commonly known as Jesus Morning Star Church (JMS), (, or (shè lǐ jìao)). Providence itself rejects these common names, officially registered as (China Christian Youth Association, CCYA), and sometimes calls itself (Providence Church).\n\nIn November 2001 the Taiwanese version of \"Next Magazine\" published the article \"Korean cult leader raped over one hundred Taiwanese female college students\". Allegedly involved National Taiwan University, Fu Jen Catholic University, and National Chengchi University all denied the report, stated that there were no cult activities in their campuses at the time. NCCU acknowledged that there had been such activities many years ago. There had been similar reports in 1997. Taiwanese authorities investigated Jung for raping women, but he fled the country. Members of EXODUS soon came to Taiwan and held a press conference with an involved woman.\n\nIn October 2005 \"Apple Daily\" reported that many student clubs in National Central University and other campuses are recruiting for Providence Church. These clubs hold a wide variety of activities including the \"Eagle Cup\" soccer tournament in Taipei city and regular model training. The paper quoted an undisclosed former church member, that the church's \"modeling department\" is in fact a channel of recruiting sexual partners for Jung. The paper obtained three audio recordings of dialogs of some female members, which say that Jung have had sex with ten female members by mutual consent, most of them college students from the modeling department.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45317865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45317865", "title": "Robert B. Powers", "text": "Robert B. Powers\n\nRobert B. Powers, (October 3, 1900 – December 3, 1976) was a prominent police officer in the history of California, first as Chief of Police in Bakersfield, California (1933–1945) and as the chief enforcement officer at the state level (1944–1947) during which he co-established one of the earliest training programs for police in matters of race relations. He later worked as a freelance writer offering pieces in This I Believe and the Saturday Evening Post. \n\nRobert \"Bob\" B. Powers was born Oct 3, 1900, in Las Vegas, New Mexico. He dropped out of school in the fifth grade.\n\nHe enlisted in military service at 17 years old and was assigned to the 12th Cavalry Regiment. He worked as a personnel sergeant in 1920. He later worked as a clerk in the office of the chief of cavalry in Washington, D.C. unitl 1922. After being discharged, he served as a state trooper and corporal in New Jersey into 1923. He also worked as a railroad \"special agent\" protecting trains and added time as a deputy sheriff in New Mexico and Arizona.\n\nPowers was hired as a motorcycle patrolman in January 1928 for the Bakersfield Police Department though his actual work initially was as a stenographer. And he married Mildred Irwin, daughter of a former district attorney, December 1928. They had two sons by 1941.\n\nPowers became a sergeant in 1930. He developed an interest in traffic patrolling and management of security for schools. In 1931 he became a lieutenant, and ;ater Chief of police of the Bakersfield police force in 1933. He also undertook professional training at the University of California, Los Angeles police school, the FBI school in Monterey and the FBI Academy in Quantico, Virginia.\n\nWhile police chief, Powers instituted on-the-job training that included public school type curriculum like English classes so that officers would be more enabled to use words instead of weapons, and professional skills like handling fingerprints. He got the police to actually learn the law so that they didn't cause problems for themselves. In April 1944, Powers wrote a \"letter to the editor\" of the local newspaper about rules of engagement of police.\n\nWhen he was appointed chief there were 38 houses of prostitution known in the community and only 11 when he left as Chief. Powers was also a strong voice in determining successive chiefs through to 1966. His appointed successor was able to close the remaining 11.\n\nAround December 1946 to April 1947 Powers investigated the Bahá'í Faith while seeking a religious basis for living. He was attracted by the Bahá'í teaching of an unfettered search after truth. The first Bahá'í book he read was \"This Earth One Country\" - \"When I read the chapter on Islam I accepted Muhammad as a Prophet. When I'd finished the book I was a Bahá'í…\" The book was oriented to the Bahá'í understanding of a view across religions and world peace. It was written by one of the first Jews of Canada to join the religion. This approach was reflected in his essay for the radio program This I Believe by Edward R. Murrow entitled \"I stopped carrying a gun\" in 1954.\n\nPowers first appears publicly presenting the religion in February 1948 giving a talk in Los Angeles Bahá'í Center. That year he also publicly reflected on his career in law enforcement writing two articles for the Saturday Evening Post - a two part series \"Crime was my business\". In it of his twenty five years in police work he said \"It's a long time to last without becoming a cynic\" and:During some of those years I was ridden by fear of being double-crossed out of my job by politicians. Often I dreaded that some situation would catch me unaware and daub me with the yellow mud of a coward's reputation. I worried that I'd lose my temper, go haywire and end up before the grand jury twisting my uniform buttons nervously and begging for mercy. There was the wear and tear of wondering if the chiefs I served under would let me down when I needed to be backed up. And after I got to be chief, there was never a time when someone didn't hate my guts, and I had to be up on my toes to keep my enemies from feathering my back with knives.\n\nHe contributed an article in 1948 to volume 11 of the multi-year survey of the status of the religion's community around the world \"The Bahá'í World\" entitled \"An Experiment in Race Relations\" about his experience in 1945 dealing with race tensions. In 1949 he joined the editorial committee working on volume 12 and continued service in 1950. Around the same time he served on the Los Angeles Spiritual Assembly, chaired the committee overseeing the Bahá'í activities of the western states, and continued to be visible giving talks on the religion.\n\nAround these activities Powers was called upon by the State Assembly Committee on Crime and Correction to investigate a situation in Oakland that suggested police brutality in confronting communists and black-power protestors - issues that continued into the Berkeley riots (1960s). Powers found evidence that convinced him there were several murders by police being pushed into confrontations by leadership. He found the whole situation evil and hurt him physically to confront.\n\nIn 1950 he cooperated in an effort to integrate a school in Duncan Arizona supporting a local civilian and fellow Bahá'í - Betty Toomis - and then attorney Stewart Udall.\n\nIn the period Powers' son, Robert Jr, was in the military and was stationed in Guam from about May 1953 into 1956 and was accorded the title Knight of Bahá'u'lláh for his service to the religion while there.\n\nPowers and son Stephen were visible in September 1956 in a Bahá'í youth group in Tucson and in December 1959 he attended the Arizona state Bahá'í convention coming from Flagstaff. Powers suffered a stroke about 1960 but he was soon visible living in Yuma and giving a talk on the religion in April 1961 and 1962.\n\nThe first known Bahá'í in Bakersfield was Mrs. W. H. Repogle who died about March–April 1934. A talk on the local radio station then named KPMC (now KNZR (AM)) broadcast a Bahá'í's story in 1938. A community of Bahá'ís is visible by 1964 and giving public talks in Bakersfield in 1965. Stephen had returned to Bakersfield before 1965 and begun working for the police department, the very year that first female office of the Bakersfield police, hired by his father, retired. Powers himself had also returned and he was visible giving a talk on the religion in 1966. However, after working for the force for 3 years Stephen testified against the police, as a policeman, about an incident in Bakersfield resulting in a race harassment case against the police, and then father and son received harassment. Stephen resigned from the force August 1969.\n\nWith the appointment of Earl Warren to the US Supreme Court a project to collect oral histories from those that knew him was undertaken and Powers was interviewed in Bakersfield. The resulting book was published in 1971. Among the anecdotes he told the interviewer, he remarked on a childhood event he said affected his whole life:\n\nPowers died December 1976, in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, aged 76. He is buried at the Chapel Hill Memorial Gardens Cemetery.\n\nMarch 5, 2010 a rebroadcast of Powers' \"This I Believe\" episode was aired on The Bob Edwards Show. \n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "2459215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2459215", "title": "Rumanau people", "text": "Rumanau people\n\nThe Rumanau are an indigenous ethnic group residing in Sabah, eastern Malaysia on the island of Borneo. They are known as the Lobu in the Keningau District near Lanas, and the Rumanau in the Masaum, Mangkawagu, Minusu areas of the Kinabatangan District along the Kinabatangan River, in Sandakan Division. Their population was estimated at 2,800 in the year 1991. They are a sub-group of the Kadazan-Dusun, although their language (ISO 639-3 ruu) belongs to the Paitanic branch of the Austronesian language family. \n\nThe Rumanau people derived their name from two words \"ru\" and \"ranah\". The word ru is equivalent to the English phrase \"to be with\" or \"to work with\", and ranah refers to \"wet earth\" or \"muddy soil\". Thus the named Rumanau people means people who work with muddy soil. Wet paddy cultivation is the only known occupation among Kadazan-Dusun which involves \"working with muddy soil\". The Rumanau were the first ethnic group migrating out from Nunuk Ragang to acquire the skill of wet paddy cultivation. The paddy cultivation phase in Momolianism evolution had a big impact on the Rumanau people. \n"}
{"id": "52504065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52504065", "title": "Sindhi Cultural Day", "text": "Sindhi Cultural Day\n\nSindhi Cultural Day (, ), also known as 'Aekta jo ddihaarro', is widely celebrated with traditional enthusiasm to spotlight the centuries-old rich culture of Sindh. The day is celebrated all over Sindh, and amongst the Sindhi diaspora around the world. Cultural day is the celebration, demonstration of culture of Sindh, Sindhis in Sindh and Sindhi diaspora all over the world celebrate this day to demonstrate the peaceful identity of Sindhi culture and acquire the attention of the world towards the rich heritage and culture of Sindh. On this jubilation people gather in all major cities of Sindh at Press Clubs, and other places and arrange various activities of literary (poetic) gatherings, Mach Katchehri (gathering in a place and sitting round in a circle and the fire on sticks in the center), musical concerts, seminars, lecture programs and rallies. It is also a symbol of the ancient Indus Valley Civilization. \n\nEach year Sindhis celebrate Sindhi Cultural day worldwide on first Sunday (First week) of December. On the occasion people wearing Ajrak and Sindhi Topi, traditional block printed shawl the musical programmes and rallies are held in many cities to mark the day with zeal. Major hallmarks of cities and towns are decorated with Sindhi Ajrak to highlight the cultural values of Sindh. People across Sindh exchange gifts of Ajrak and Topi at various ceremonies. Even the children and women dress up in Ajrak, assembling at the grand gathering, where famous Sindhi singers sing Sindhi songs, which depicts peace and love message of Sindh. The musical performances of the artists compel the participants to dance on Sindhi tunes and national song ‘Jeay Sindh Jeay-Sindh Wara Jean’.\n\nAll political, social and religious organizations of Sindh, besides the Sindh culture department and administrations of various schools, colleges and universities, organize variety of events including seminars, debates, folk music programmes, drama and theatrics performances, tableau and literary sittings to mark this annual festivity. Sindhi culture, history and heritage are highlighted at the events.\n\nCultural day is observed to display solidarity among the Sindhi-speaking masses; the event is celebrated throughout Sindh and all over the world. The culture and heritage day was celebrated for the first time on December 6, 2009 (as the Sindhi Topi Day) as a backlash to the comments of anchorperson Dr. Shahid Masood who had criticized President Asif Ali Zardari for wearing a Sindhi cap on his foreign tours. People across the Sindh province condemned Masood’s comments via SMS, which ultimately resulted in the announcement of celebrating the Sindhi Topi Day. Ever since, Sindhi media groups have also started to celebrate the day as ‘Sindhi Cultural Day’. The Sindhi language TV channels including KTN, Sindh TV, Awaz TV and Mehran TV broadcast live and special programmes on the culture of Sindh, besides these media outlets separately arrange the mega musical events, which also attract large audience to celebrate the Culture Day every year.\n\nThis is the timeline of celebrations of the Sindhi Cultural day.\n\nThe first cultural day celebrations were held on December 6, 2009. Ali Kazi announced the cultural day and all Sindhis endorsed his decision.\n\nSindhi cultural day was celebrated in December 2010. Provincial government and Chief Minister of Sindh Syed Qaim Ali Shah announced it a public holiday.\n\nSindhi cultural day was celebrated in December 2011. Government of Sindh in collaboration with media centers sponsored this event.\n\nSindhi cultural day was celebrated in December 2012. A major gathering was held outside Karachi Press Club.\n\nSindhi cultural day was celebrated in December 2013. The US Consulate in Karachi arranged a Qawali program on the occasion.\n\nSindhi cultural day was celebrated in December 2014. The main event was arranged at Karachi Press Club.\n\nSindhi cultural day was celebrated in December 2015. The US Consulate arranged a musical program at the Consul General’s residence.\n\nThis year all Sindhi media including KTN and Sindh TV mutually celebrated cultural day on 4 December. Many people gathered at the Karachi Press Club, where a large stage was decorated with Pana-flexes.\n\nThe US Consulate General, Karachi celebrated the cultural day of Sindh. Bilawal Bhutto Zardari also celebrated in Lahore during his political program.\n\nSindhi cultural day was celebrated in the first week of December, 2017 across Sindh and worldwide. The main event was held at Karachi Press Club where people from around the city gathered.\n\nSindhi cultural day is to be celebrated on Sunday, December 2, 2018. \n\n"}
{"id": "39315515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39315515", "title": "Sir Rickard Christophers Medal", "text": "Sir Rickard Christophers Medal\n\nThe Sir Rickard Christophers Medal, named in honour of Sir Rickard Christophers, is awarded every three years to individuals for their work in the field of tropical medicine and hygiene. The awarding body is the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.\n\nSource: RSTMH\n"}
{"id": "23895301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23895301", "title": "Southern Africa Cat Council", "text": "Southern Africa Cat Council\n\nThe Southern Africa Cat Council (SACC) is a cat registry and cat fancy organisation based in South Africa, affiliating 9 clubs, 14 breed groups and 4 judges panels.\n\nSACC was founded in 1945 as the \"Associated Cat Clubs of South Africa\", the first organisation serving the South African cat fancy. In 1996, the members overhauled the organisation's structure and constitution, and adopted the name \"Southern African Cat Council\".\n\nSACC joined the World Cat Congress in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "9380616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9380616", "title": "Tokyo University of Agriculture", "text": "Tokyo University of Agriculture\n\nThe , abbreviated as Nodai (農大, \"nōdai\") or Tokyo nodai (東京農大,\"Tōkyō nōdai\"), is a private university of agriculture in Japan.\n\nThere are three campuses: Setagaya, Atsugi, and Okhotsk (Abashiri).\n\nTokyo University of Agriculture is a private agriculture university. It was the first such institution founded in Japan. As of 2006 it is the only private university in Japan that specializes in agriculture. Although its name is similar to Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology and the College of Agriculture at University of Tokyo, the institutions are not related to one another.\n\nIncluding public agriculture universities, Tokyo University of Agriculture is ranked third, behind Sapporo Agricultural College and the University of Tokyo, Komaba Campus.\n\nTokyo campus in Setagaya-ku:\n\nAtsugi campus in Kanagawa:\n\nOkhotsk campus in Hokkaido:\n\nIn addition, the university offers two graduate school programs: one in Agriculture and one in Bio-industry. There is a two-year junior college.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6010642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6010642", "title": "Turks of the Dodecanese", "text": "Turks of the Dodecanese\n\nThe Turks of the Dodecanese are a community of 2,000 Turkish-speaking people and ethnic Turks living on the Dodecanese islands of Rhodes () and Kos () who were not affected by the 1923 population exchange between Greece and Turkey, since the islands were under the rule of the Kingdom of Italy at the time (from 1912). All inhabitants of the islands became Greek citizens after 1947 when the islands became part of Greece.\n\nAs a result of this incorporation into Greece and due to the situation following the Cyprus conflict and the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974 many Muslim Turks left the islands and settled in Turkey. Many of them were deprived of their Greek citizenship and property. Some of those who stayed abandoned the Turkish language and their religion.\n\nThe Turks in Kos are partly organized around the Muslim Association of Kos Kos Müslüman which gives the figure 2,000 for the population they bring together and represent for the Greek island.\n\nThose in Rhodes are organized around the Moslem Association of Rhodes Rodos Müslümanı, which gives the figure 3,500 for the population they bring together and represent for the island.\n\nThe more general term \"Adalı\" is sometimes used (meaning \"islanders\").\n\nThe president of their association Mazlum Paizanoglou estimates the number in Rhodes as 2500 and in Kos as 2000. http://arsiv.ntv.com.tr/news/23898.asp\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24283981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24283981", "title": "Unique Population Registry Code", "text": "Unique Population Registry Code\n\nThe Clave Única de Registro de Población (translated into English as Unique Population Registry Code or else as Personal ID Code Number) (abbreviated CURP) is a unique identity code for both citizens and residents of Mexico. Each CURP code is a unique alphanumeric 18-character string intended to prevent duplicate entries.\n\nTo understand how CURP codes are built, one must first understand Hispano American naming conventions. Full names in Spanish-speaking countries (including Mexican full names) consist of three elements:\n\n\nThe CURP code is composed of 18 characters that are assigned as follows:\n\nFor married women, only maiden names are used.\n\nFor example, the CURP code for a hypothetical person named Gloria Hernández García, a female, born on 27 April 1956 in the state of Veracruz, could be HEGG560427MVZRRL04.\n\nSeveral exceptions to the above rules exist, including:\n\nIf any step in the above procedure leads to the letter \"Ñ\" appearing anywhere in the CURP, the \"Ñ\" is replaced by an \"X\".\n\nWhen a person has two given names and the first given name is María, as is often the case for women in Mexico, or José, in the case of men, the first name will be overlooked and the fourth character will be taken from the second given name's initial. This is because the names \"María\" and \"José\" are very common and would generate many duplicates if used to generate the code.\n\nFor example, if the person were named María Fernanda Escamilla Arroyo, her CURP's first four characters would be EAAF because \"María\" does not count for the CURP's fourth character when a second given name is present.\n\nTo prevent words from forming that would be deemed \"palabras altisonantes\" (\"foul-sounding words\", such as profanity or pejoratives) in the first four characters of the string, a Catalog of Inappropriate Words (\"Catálogo de Palabras Inconvenientes\") lists many such possible combinations and provides replacements that usually entail changing the second letter, a vowel, into an \"X\".\n\nInitially, a CURP card (\"cédula\") was obtainable at CURP government offices, and also at the Civil Registry, ISSSTE, IMSS, and other government services; the document was printed on green paper at the time. Valid copies of existing CURPs can now be printed on plain paper by visiting an official website.\n\nWhile an existing CURP can be looked up using one of the .gob.mx sites listed in the external links, it is not possible to get a CURP issued online. There are advertising sites that will generate a \"CURP\" look alike. Those sites do not enter a new CURP in the national database, they simply generate a number. Two of those advertising sites are listed below. A new CURP can only be applied for in person at the appropriate government office.\n\nThe CURP card is 5.4 cm wide and 8.6 cm long, fits in a wallet and may be laminated for preservation. The front of the card gives the CURP 18-character string, given names and surnames, plus the date of registration and a folio number. The back contains information referencing the document used as proof to originally assign the CURP code (if it was a birth certificate, folio number and issuing \"municipio\" are included), and a barcode.\n\nOn 23 October 1996, the Presidential Agreement for the Adoption and Use of the Population Registry Unique Code by the Federal Government (\"Acuerdo Presidencial para la adopción y uso por la Administración Pública Federal de la Clave Única de Registro de Población\") was published in the \"Official Gazette of the Federation\".\n\nThe Agreement provides assigning a CURP number to everyone living in Mexico and to Mexicans living abroad.\n\nCurrently, the CURP is essential for tax filings, to keep records of companies, schools, membership in government-run health services, passport applications, and other government services.\n\nCURP number is now used in all Civil Registry individual records (birth and death certificates) and certified copies thereof.\n\nAlthough primarily intended to substitute for a series of registration numbers (IMSS, RFC, IFE), CURP has failed to replace any of these, which continue to use their own code-generation protocols. Nevertheless, INE voting card now contains both the IFE code and the CURP code.\n\nOutside Mexico City, the \"Clave de Registro e Identidad Personal\" (Personal Registration and Identification Code) (CRIP) is used, in addition to CURP.\n\nIt has been proposed the creation of a Unique Identity Code (CUI) that could possibly replace the CURP, to unify the system throughout Mexico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8160507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8160507", "title": "Women in 18th-century warfare", "text": "Women in 18th-century warfare\n\nActive warfare throughout recorded history has predominantly involved male combatants; however, women have also contributed to military activities including as combatants. The following list describes women known to have participated in military actions in the 18th century.\n\nFor women in warfare in the United States at this time, please see Timeline of women in war in the United States, Pre-1945.\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32836714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32836714", "title": "Women letter writers", "text": "Women letter writers\n\nWomen letter writers in early modern Europe created lengthy correspondences, where they expressed their intellect and their creativity; in the process, they also left a rich historic legacy.\n\nOver time, a large number of women's correspondences have been made the subject of publications. Some among them ignored the literary value of these missives that were sometimes circulated by their recipients. Some correspondences were, on the other hand, strictly private and their literary value—and historic value, as well—was not revealed until the rediscovery of these letters, perhaps long after the death of their authors, as in the case of Élisabeth Bégon, whose correspondence was not discovered until 1932 in the archives of the French Ministry of the Navy.\n\nIt is usually agreed that what makes these letters distinctive emanates from their spontaneity. Marie de Sévigné was the incarnation of this quality, to the point of becoming considered by many as the archetype of the woman letter writer, and an altogether literary author, even among her contemporaries, such as Suzanne Curchod: \n\nIn 1669, the famous \"Letters of a Portuguese Nun\" appeared, presented as a translation of five letters sent by a Portuguese nun to a French officer. For a long time, these letters were accepted as authentic letters written by Mariana Alcoforado, before being definitively shown by a modern critic to be a work of literary fiction, attributed to Gabriel de Guilleragues.\n\nThe frontier between reality and fiction becomes blurry between literature and correspondence, above all when novelists turned this writing technique into a literary device that would become the epistolary novel, a genre that reached its peak during the Enlightenment when writers tried to persuade readers that between their hands was a real correspondence, which is what Jean-Jacques Rousseau more or less achieved with \"Julie, or the New Heloise\".\n\n\n\n"}
