{"id": "17324037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17324037", "title": "121 Atlantic Place", "text": "121 Atlantic Place\n\n121 Atlantic Place, formerly the Atlantic National Bank Building, is a historic skyscraper in Jacksonville, Florida. It was built in 1909 as the headquarters for the Atlantic National Bank, and is located at 121 West Forsyth Street. It was the tallest building in Jacksonville and in Florida from 1909 to 1912, and remains an office building today.\n\nThe building was designed by New York City architects Mowbray and Uffinger and built between 1908 and 1909 by the James Stewart Company for the Atlantic National Bank. The steel frame structure stands at 10 stories and high, and includes a white Sylacauga marble covering on the bottom two floors and white terra cotta on the upper eight. The facade includes ornate detailing, two-story columns around the entrance, and other decorative elements.\n\nThe building was constructed amid a three-way race with the Bisbee Building and the Seminole Hotel to become Jacksonville's first skyscraper. All three buildings were located on Forsyth Street within a block of each other, and all three were ten stories tall. The Atlantic National Bank Building broke ground in August 1908, shortly after the Bisbee Building but before the Seminole Hotel. The Bisbee opened just before the Atlantic National Bank Building the following year, winning the race. However, at 41 meters the Atlantic Bank Building was taller than the others, making it the tallest building in Jacksonville and the tallest in Florida at the time. It held that position until the Florida Life Building was completed in 1912.\n\nThe Atlantic National Bank, founded by Edward W. Lane, Thomas P. Denham, and Fred W. Hoyt in 1903, relocated its bank room from the nearby Dyal-Upchurch Building to the new headquarters. In 1926 the bank opened the Atlantic National Bank Annex directly behind the Bank Building on West Adams Street. This building, now known as the Schultz Building, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1997. In 1985 Atlantic National Bank merged with First Union, which was in turn acquired by Wachovia (and subsequently Wells Fargo). The Atlantic National Bank Building changed hands over the years, becoming known as 121 Atlantic Place, but is still in use as an office building. It was renovated in the 2000s, with a five-story addition added to the west. One unique feature of the structure is its pedestrian tunnel connecting to the BB&T Bank Building, the only such tunnel in Downtown Jacksonville still in use. This tunnel, originally created to facilitate secure travel between buildings, has been home to a small restaurant, Benny's, since 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "9486102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9486102", "title": "810 Seventh Avenue", "text": "810 Seventh Avenue\n\n810 Seventh Avenue is a Class-A office skyscraper located a few blocks north of Times Square on Seventh Avenue between 52nd and 53rd streets within Midtown Manhattan in New York City, United States. It is owned by SL Green Realty Corp. after its acquisition of Reckson Associates Realty Corp., completed in January 2007. The back of the building is situated on Broadway, diagonally across Broadway and 53rd from CBS's Ed Sullivan Theater, home of \"The Late Show with Stephen Colbert\".\n\nThe building has a large number of tenants, including: AT&T Wireless, Convene Conference Centers, Aegis Capital Corp., CompassRock Real Estate (40th Floor), Constellation Energy, EMI Entertainment, Ion Media Networks, Hearst Communications, IAC/InterActiveCorp, Insight Communications, The Raine Group, Metromedia Company, Murex, Oppenheimer & Co., Practising Law Institute, TheMarkets.com (6th Floor), Pixafy\n\nOffice SF: <br>\nRetail SF: <br>\nGarage SF: \n"}
{"id": "47848493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47848493", "title": "Alan Knott-Craig", "text": "Alan Knott-Craig\n\nAlan Knott-Craig (jnr) (born 14 August 1977, Pretoria, South Africa) is a South African entrepreneur and author. He is the founder of Project Isizwe as well as executive chairman of Hero Telecoms, Ever Africa, and Happimo NPC.\n\nKnott-Craig was born on 14 August 1977 in Pretoria, where he lived until he left school in 1995. \n\nHis early school career was at home where his mother, a qualified teacher, ran a kindergarten. At age 6 he went to Glenstantia Primary School, graduating to the Glen High School, Pretoria in 1991.\n\nHis father, Alan Knott-Craig (Senior) was Senior General Manager of Mobile Communications at Telkom SA, and later CEO of South African mobile networks, Vodacom (1996 - 2008) and Cell C (2012 - 2014).\n\nIn 1996 Knott-Craig (jnr) was accepted for a BCom Accounting at Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (formerly University of Port Elizabeth). He graduated in 1998, and completed his postgraduate degree, B Com Honours in Accounting, in 1999. He did his articles at Deloitte Cape Town between 2000 and 2002.\n\nKnott-Craig qualified as a Chartered Accountant (SA) at the end of 2002. He worked in the New York City office of Deloitte USA for a short period.\n\nHe returned to South Africa and In October 2003 he founded Cellfind, one of South Africa’s first mobile-location-based service providers and served as CEO until 2005. In 2006 he was appointed as CEO of iBurst and built one of South African’s largest wireless broadband networks. After the birth of his first daughter, he left iBurst in 2009 to relocate to Stellenbosch. In 2010 he founded and became CEO of World of Avatar, an investment house for apps for Africa and later acquired and became CEO of Mxit, Africa’s biggest social network.\n\nHe left Mxit and World of Avatar in October 2012 after a disagreement with his partners.\n\nIn 2013 he founded and became CEO of Project Isizwe, a non-profit company managing the deployment of the largest public Free Wi-Fi network in South Africa. In 2015 he also executive chairman of Herotel a wireless broadband provider in South Africa, Happimo NPC, and Ever Africa.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2013 he co-founded and/or funded 17 companies in the Technology, Media and Telecommunications sector in Africa, including Cellfind, Lucky Mobile, iFind34600, COLV, World of Avatar, Toodu, FSMS, Triloq, 6th Line, Daily Maverick, ARC Telecoms, Pondering Panda, MorMor Media, and Boom.fm.\n\nKnott-Craig married Sibella Bosman in 2002. They have three daughters and live in Stellenbosch, South Africa.\n\nIn April 2008, he published \"Don’t Panic\", based on an e-mail he sent to his staff aimed at persuading South Africans to stay in the country and contribute positively. The book became the best selling book in South Africa for 2008. This was followed in 2012 by \"Mobinomics: Mxit and South Africa’s Mobile Revolution\" which he co-authored with Gus Silber. \"Really, Don’t Panic\" and \"Moenie Stres nie\" a follow-up of \"Don’t Panic\" was published in 2014. In 2015 he co-authored \"So, You Want To Be A Hero\", a collection of essays, tips and cartoons targeted at young people looking to fast track their careers.\n\nKnott-Craig was named as a Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum in 2009. Forbes listed him as one of the top 10 young African millionaires to watch in 2013. He was also included in “100 Choiseul Africa\", a list of top 100 young African business leaders in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "55728002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55728002", "title": "Ana María Flores", "text": "Ana María Flores\n\nAna María Flores Sanzetenea (born 29 July 1952) is a Bolivian engineer, businesswoman, ex-senator, and politician. She is also known for her candidacy for the presidency of Bolivia in the 2009 general election, in which she finished fifth.\n\nAna María Flores was born on 29 July 1952 in the city of Sucre, Bolivia. Her primary and secondary schooling took place in her hometown. She continued her higher education, traveling to the United States to study civil engineering at Trinity College. She also married a U.S. citizen. A few years after their marriage, Flores was widowed with two daughters.\n\nDuring her working life, Flores devoted herself entirely to the business of the mining equipment and construction company Whenhell, of which she was general manager and owner from age 27, from 1979 to 1984. She was also a representative of the companies Renardet Ingenieurs from 1984 to 1992, Santi Consulting from 1990 to 1997, and Iberinsa from 1992 to 1998. Flores was also owner of the investment group Cristal from 1995 until its end in 2002.\n\nAt age 50, Flores was invited by Manfred Reyes Villa's New Republican Force to participate in the elections, where she won the position of senator for La Paz Department in the Plurinational Legislative Assembly. However she left the party after the gas conflict in 2003, during the second government of president Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada (2002–2003).\n\nDuring this time, Flores joined the \"Transversal Group\", a number of senators who had resigned from their respective political parties after the gas conflict. Flores contributed by denouncing several instances of nepotism in the Bolivian congress. She held her senatorial position until 2005.\n\nFour years after leaving office, at age 57, Flores ran for president in the 2009 general election with the United Social Patriotic Movement. She finished fifth with 23,257 votes (0.51% of the general vote).\n\nIn 2012, at age 60, Flores was kidnapped by a gang in the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra. According to some Bolivian media, she paid a ransom for her release (she never disclosed the amount of money), thus regaining her freedom. The report of her abduction would become national news.\n\nIn March 2015, at age 63, Flores returned to Bolivian politics, but this time participating in regional elections for the position of mayor of the city of La Paz for the Revolutionary Nationalist Movement. She lost in subnational elections held on 29 March.\n\n"}
{"id": "46904191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46904191", "title": "Big Pharma (video game)", "text": "Big Pharma (video game)\n\nBig Pharma is a simulation game developed by Twice Circled and published by Positech Games where one builds a drug factory. The game was released on 27 August 2015.\n\nIn \"Big Pharma\" the player takes the role as the manager of a pharmaceutical company, producing prescription drugs from raw materials. Raw materials have intrinsic positive (e.g., \"Reduces coughs\") and negative (e.g., \"Induces drowsiness\") effects that present themselves when the material is within a set concentration range, with possible concentrations ranging on a 0-to-20 scale. Most of the positive benefits can be enhanced to more desirable effects, or negative side effects can be outright removed, by bringing the material to a specific concentration range and applying an indicated process, some further requiring the addition of a catalyst material which itself carries positive and negative effects. Materials can also be mixed to combine positive and negative benefits to create more potent drugs. The goal in the mixing and preparation of materials is to achieve drugs that have their positive effects as close to their maximum potency concentration while either eliminating side effects or bringing the material's concentration as far away from the side effects' maximum potency levels.\nThe player produces the drugs using an assembly line approach with various equipment that can modify the concentration of the material, combine materials, rearrange the effects of a material to determine how effects combine when mixed, analyze materials to determine maximum potency levels, and finally prepare the material in pill form for delivery. This is done on an isometric view of building plant floorplan, with various ports along the edges that can be used to bring in materials or ship out completed drugs. Materials are transported via conveyor belts between the processing units. Added building space can be purchased with in-game funds. The player can click on processes or materials to evaluate their current state, thus giving them the ability to debug the production line. Once the player has produced a complete pill from specific materials for the first time and delivered it to an output port, they are given the opportunity to name the product. This product is then sold on the game's virtual market. The produce is rated on a letter-grade based on the effectiveness and lack of side-effects as well as current market demand. The production lines operate in real-time - in that while the player can pause the game to arrange equipment within a production line, the game while running tracks the movement of each unit of material through the production line and only considered each unit as a product when it reaches the end of the production line.\n\nIn the larger game, the player must build up these drug production lines to maintain a profit and allow them to build additional lines. Scenarios in the game include competing companies that will also be releasing prescription drugs that will impact the profitability of the player's products. For example, if other companies have released a cold remedy drug, the market may be too saturated for a better cold remedy to succeed. The player can review what market demand there is for specific remedies to tailor productions toward those goals. In addition, the player can manage a research tree that enables more effective process equipment and other benefits to be built, and send out explorers to research on new possible ingredients to build from. The game includes a number of preset scenarios (such as reached a financial milestone after a number of years of operation) at various difficulty levels as well as the ability to create a custom open-ended game.\n\nAn expansion, \"Marketing And Malpractice\", was released on 26 April 2016. This expansion will add Executives as part of the company which can be used to market the drugs produced by the player's production lines, as well as to try to manipulate and corner the market.\n\nBig Pharma received. has a score of 72% on Metacritic, and scored an 8/10 from IGN Spain.\n"}
{"id": "7575916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7575916", "title": "Build to order", "text": "Build to order\n\nBuild to order (BTO) and sometimes referred to as make to order or made to order (MTO), is a production approach where products are not built until a confirmed order for products is received. BTO is the oldest style of order fulfillment and is the most appropriate approach used for \"highly customized\" or \"low volume\" products. \n\n\"Made to order\" products are common in the food service industry, such as at restaurants.\n\nThis approach is considered good for highly configured products, e.g. automobiles, bicycles, computer servers, or for products where holding inventories is very expensive, e.g. aircraft.\n\nIn an automotive context, BTO is a demand driven production approach where a product is scheduled and built in response to a confirmed order received for it from a final customer. The final customer refers to a known individual owner and excludes all orders by the original equipment manufacturer (OEM), national sales companies (NSC), dealers or point of sales, bulk orders or other intermediaries in the supply chain. BTO excludes the order amendment function, whereby forecast orders in the pipeline are amended to customer requirements, as this is seen as another level of sophistication for a build to stock (BTS) system (also known as build to forecast (BTF)).\n\nBTS is the dominant approach used today across many industries and refers to products that are built before a final purchaser has been identified, with production volume driven by historical demand information. This high stock level, endemic across the auto industry allows some dealers to find an exact or very close match to the customer’s desired vehicle within the dealer networks and supplier parks. The vehicle can then be delivered as soon as transport can be arranged. This has been used to justify stock levels. Whilst providing a rapid response to customer demand, the approach is expensive, mainly in terms of stock, but also transportation as finished goods are rarely where they are required. Holding stock of such a high cash value as finished goods is a key driver of the current crisis in the automotive industry - a crisis that could be eased by implementation of a BTO system.\n\nA BTO system does not mean that all suppliers in the supplier chain should be producing only when a customer order has been confirmed. Clearly, it would not make economic sense for a manufacturer of low value high volume parts to employ BTO. It is appropriate that these should be identified and built to a supplier order, effectively BTS. Part of the challenge in a BTO supplier network is in the identification of which suppliers should be BTO and which BTS. The point in the supply chain when this change occurs is called the ‘decoupling point’. Currently, the majority of automotive supply chains lack a decoupling point and the dominant BTS approach has resulted in billions of dollars of capital being tied up in stock in the supply chain.\n\nSome firms build all their products to order while others practice (BTS). Given the widespread proliferation of products, there are a number of manufacturers taking a combined approach, where some items are BTS and others are BTO, which is commonly referred to as \"hybrid BTO\".\n\nThe main advantages of the BTO approach in environments of high product variety is the ability to supply the customer with the exact product specification required, the reduction in sales discounts and finished good inventory, as well a reduction in stock obsolescence risk. The main disadvantage of BTO is manufacturers are susceptible to market demand fluctuations leading to a reduced capacity utilization in manufacturing. Hence, to ensure an effective use of production resources, a BTO approach should be coupled with proactive demand management. Finding the correct and appropriate balance of BTO and BTS to maintain stock levels appropriate to both the market requirement and operational stability is a current area of academic research.\n\nRelated approaches to BTO include the Engineer to Order (ETO) approach, where after an order is received, a part of or the whole design is done, as well as the Assemble to Order (ATO). Together with the BTS approach, these strategies form the spectrum of order fulfillment strategies a firm can adopt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20092050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20092050", "title": "Charlotte Lee, Lady Baltimore", "text": "Charlotte Lee, Lady Baltimore\n\nCharlotte Lee, Lady Baltimore (13 March 1678 Old Style – 22 January 1721 Old Style), was an English noblewoman, and granddaughter of King Charles II of England and his mistress Barbara Villiers. She married in 1699, Benedict Leonard Calvert, 4th Baron Baltimore, from whom she separated in 1705; she later married Christopher Crowe. She was the mother of Charles Calvert, 5th Baron Baltimore, and of Benedict Leonard Calvert, who was Governor of Maryland from 1727–1731.\nLady Charlotte Lee was born on 13 March 1678 at St. James's Park, St. James, London. She was the eldest of at least fourteen children of Edward Henry Lee, 1st Earl of Lichfield (4 February 1663 – 14 July 1716) and Lady Charlotte Fitzroy (5 September 1664 – 17 February 1718), illegitimate daughter of King Charles II by his mistress Barbara Villiers, Countess of Castlemaine, Duchess of Cleveland.\n\nLady Charlotte's mother was fourteen years old at the time of her birth, having married the Earl of Lichfield at the age of thirteen. Her father was also only fifteen at the time of her birth\n\nHer paternal grandparents were Sir Francis Henry Lee of Ditchley, 4th Baronet of Quarendon and Elizabeth Pope, daughter of Thomas Pope, 2nd Earl of Downe.\n\nOn 2 January 1699, at the age of twenty, she married her first husband Benedict Leonard Calvert, 4th Baron Baltimore (21 March 1679 – 16 April 1715), son of Charles Calvert, 3rd Baron Baltimore and Jane Lowe.\n\nCharlotte assumed the title of Lady Baltimore in February 1715, when her husband succeeded to the title of 4th Baron Baltimore upon the death of his father, the third Baron. The title of Proprietary Governor of the Province of Maryland had been lost to the third Baron during the Glorious Revolution and would be restored to Charles Calvert, the son of Charlotte and Benedict, upon the latter's death on 16 April 1715.\n\nCharlotte and Lord Baltimore had six children:\n\nCharlotte and Lord Baltimore were divorced in 1705. Charlotte had an affair in 1706 with Colonel Robert Fielding, then the (bigamous) husband of her grandmother the Duchess of Cleveland, and was rumoured to have borne a child by him, born 23 April 1707.\n\nShe married her second husband Christopher Crowe (c.1681 – 9 November 1749), Consul at Leghorn, sometime before 10 December 1719. Charlotte was three years older than her husband. This marriage produced four more children.\nCharlotte's four children from her second marriage:\n\nCharlotte Lee died of rheumatism on 22 January 1721 at Woodford Hall, Woodford, Essex. She was buried at Woodford on 29 January 1721. She died intestate and her estate was administered on 4 March 1721 at Woodford Hall.\n\nCharlotte Lee appears as a minor character in Anya Seton's historical romance \"Devil Water\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18821679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18821679", "title": "Claritas Prizm", "text": "Claritas Prizm\n\nClaritas PRIZM Premier is a set of geo-demographic segments for the United States, developed by Claritas Inc., (which was owned under The Nielsen Company umbrella from 2009-2016). It is a widely used customer segmentation system for marketing in the United States to help companies find customers, quickly and at scale. \n\nPRIZM® Premier combines demographics, consumer behavior and geographic data to help marketers understand, find and engage with their customers and prospects on the right channels at the right time. \n\nPRIZM Premier classifies every U.S. household into one of 68 consumer segments based on the household’s purchasing preferences. PRIZM Premier offers a complete set of ancillary databases and links to third-party data, allowing marketers to use data outside of their own customer files to pinpoint products and services that their best customers are most likely to use, as well as locate their best customers on the ground. PRIZM Premier enables marketers to create a complete portrait of their customers for smarter targeting. PRIZM Premier is an update to PRIZM model that featured 66 segments, and it includes new inputs for technology adoption and wealth. \n\nPRIZM Premier segments are numbered according to socioeconomic rank (which takes into account characteristics such as income, education, occupation and home value) and are grouped into 11 Lifestage groups and 14 social groups. Social groups are based on urbanicity and socioeconomic rank. Lifestage groups are based on age, socioeconomic rank, and the presence of children at home.\n\nPRIZM Premier provides a seamless transition between household-level coding and geographic-level coding by providing the same segment schema at both levels. It allows a ‘downshift’ from geo-demographic to the household-level when more precision is required. \nLearn more at www.claritas.com or find out a bit about the households in your market with the ZIP Code Look-Up Tool on www.mybestsegments.com \n\nMembers of this segment are made up of couples over the age of 65 whose children have moved out. Many possess a postgraduate degree. \n\nThey are characterized by married couples with children, living in the suburbs, having high technology usage, and graduate degrees. Their jobs consist of business executives, managers, and professionals.\n\nCouples are typically between the ages of 45 and 64 living in the suburbs. They are highly educated and have a high percentage of executives and white-collar professionals.\n\nThis segment is choosing to start families in fashionable neighborhoods on the urban fringe. They are highly educated and very tech-savvy. \n\nMembers of this segment fled the city life for the charms of small-town living. Many have executive jobs and live in recently built homes. \n\nThey live in suburban neighbors and are made up of 35- to 54-year-old couples with large families. They enjoy traveling and new experiences. \n\nMany of these city dwellers have advanced degrees and are married couples with few children who live in fashionable homes. \n\nThis segment consists of upscale older couples typically living just beyond the nation's beltways. Known for white-collar professionals drawn to comfortable homes and apartments within a manageable commute to downtown jobs.\n\nOlder, emptying-nesting, college-educated, the members of this segment are often among the leading citizens of their small-town communities. \n\nThe residents of this segment tend to be prosperous and active professionals. They are also above average in their use of technology. \n\nThis segment leads busy, active lives often centered around the schedules and interests of their children. Always on the go, they frequent restaurant diners and shop at wholesale clubs. \n\nWith their children mostly grown and out of the house, these older couples are Cruisin' to Retirement. They remain in the neighborhoods they raised their families in and enjoy their suburban lifestyle. \n\nThis segment is made up of families, with college degrees, and new homes. They are above average technology users who own multiple computers. \n\nThese married couples with children live in recently built subdivision in suburban neighborhoods. This segment is a refuge for college-educated, white-collar professionals with administrative jobs. \n\nYoung families seeking to escape the suburban sprawl finding refuge in a collection of small rustic townships. They have child-centered lifestyles and a mix of jobs in white and blue-collar industries. \n\nLike many of their peers who married late, many are college-educated and raising children in comfortable suburban subdivisions while beginning to plan for their own retirement. \n\nA segment located in downtown neighborhoods and are more likely to be renters than other households in their age cohort. They enjoy the cultural options available to them in their communities.\n\nLiving in small towns this segment enjoys outdoor activities. They live an old-fashioned way of life and are below average in their use of technology. \n\nThis segment lives in urban areas. They are heavy grocery and convenience store shoppers, opting to prepare meals at home more than their urban counterparts in other segments.\n\nMost residents are over 65 years old, but they show no interest in a rest-home retirement. With their grown-up children out of the house they pursue active, and activist, lifestyles.\n\nConcentrated in major metro areas, these households feature older homeowners. They tend to be educated, married, and enjoy a leisure-intensive lifestyle. \n\nThis segment has solid white-collar jobs and good educations. In their older homes, they enjoy reading, while time spending time outside. \n\nHomeowners exhibit a blend of behaviors representative of their small-town environment. They enjoy outdoor activities like fishing and off-road biking but also enjoy the creature comforts of reading.\n\nThey live in areas that are somewhat rural but have more of a suburban taste. They are frequent golfers, boaters, and heavy shoppers. \n\nFound in suburban areas and second cities, these mobile adults, mostly age 25 to 44, are college graduates who are into athletic activities and the latest technology. Many are continuing their education in the hopes of owning a home and achieving greater success in later years. \n\nWidely scattered across the nation's suburbs and second cities, these residents tend to be younger, and families live in mid-sized homes. They are mostly under 55, have gone to college, and hold professional and white-collar jobs.\n\nScattered in placid towns across the American heartland, they are middle-aged rural families who have high school educations and blue-collar jobs. To entertain their families, they do outdoor activities and buy sporting equipment.\n\nThis segment is a collection of older empty-nesting households. These couples enjoy outdoor activities, hunting, and going out to eat but are not likely to be up-to-date on technology.\n\nResidents are married with children - some parents just began starting a family while others approach the empty-nest stage as their children age. They enjoy reading and following sports. \n\nThis segment is made up of middle-aged suburban families. These residents work as white-collar managers and professionals, they are above average technology users. \n\nThese mix of young singles, couples, and families ranging from students to professionals all have one thing in common, being tech savvy. They are always early adopters of the latest and greatest thing. \n\nTypically age 65 and older, these Americans pursue an active lifestyle. They are small-town couples nearing retirement and are beginning to enjoy their first empty-nest years.\n\nThese families have settled in neighborhoods within smaller cities and metro areas. This segment tends to be average in technology usage. \n\nThis segment is made up of young singles and couples who are very preoccupied with balancing work and leisure pursuits. Many are influential in their communities, social networks, and are extremely tech savvy. \n\nResidents live in urban neighborhoods with established careers and college degrees. They are active participants in their communities and strong supporters of their local professional sports teams.\n\nThis segment is mostly made up of empty nesters who are older in age. If something needs to be fixed, they are likely to do the work themselves. \n\nThey are college educated, younger couples who settled in the nation's satellite cities and suburbs. Despite living further out from the urban downtowns, they still like to go out on the town for frequent meals out.\n\nConsisted of older, midscale couples with no kids at home. Somewhat set in their ways, they are slow to adopt and below average in their use of technology.\n\nWidely scattered throughout the nation's heartland this segment is dominated by hard working families living in small towns. \n\nTypically, urban renters, they are focused on their social lives and dine out often. In addition, they have above average technology usage. \n\nMade up of over-65 singles and married couples living in older suburban and second city homes. They tend to maintain an easy-going, predictable lifestyle often socializing with friends. \n\nThis segment is the made up of singles and families living in urban neighborhoods. \n\nFound in urban neighborhoods this segment typically living in old homes they've owned for years. These residents are hard-working and enjoy traveling. \n\nThese families live in rural areas that embrace their day-to-day lives. They are focused on their families and prefer hunting and country music to keeping up with the latest technology.\n\nThese singles live near the city center and are considered average in technology usage. They also enjoy frequently online shopping. \n\nThis widespread segment consists of mostly retired older couples living in communities of small families. These empty-nesting couples pursue a rustic lifestyle and have many leisure activities. \n\nThese younger singles and couples typically rent apartments and homes. They are among the most tech savvy segments with some college credits under their belt.\n\nHaving grown up in the age of the internet, these younger families are above average in technology usage. They are more often renters, living in suburban neighborhoods and second cities.\n\nThese older and retired homeowners live a comfortable lifestyle. Couples tend to be below average in their technology use, preferring to find their entertainment outside of the home.\n\nMiddle-aged singles and couples still establishing themselves in their careers and their lives. They are settled in suburban areas and second cities but are often out and about. \n\nPrimarily found in rural areas these families enjoy the outdoors. Despite their age, they are below average in their use of technology. \n\nMany of its residents are over the age of 65 years old and mostly retired. Many are high school-educated seniors who held blue-collar jobs before their retirement.\n\nOlder households centered mainly in the nation's second cities. Residents are below average in their technology use, choosing instead a night out at a restaurant as their evening entertainment.\n\nHouseholds found mostly in second cities, this segment is in mid-career with their jobs. They enjoy a wide variety of sports and entertainment activities that fill their social calendars.\n\nMiddle-aged, with high school educations, many of these folks are transitioning from blue-collar jobs to the service industry. In their spare time, they are active members of their local community organizations.\n\nMiddle-aged, urban households with moderate means. They enjoy a wide variety of media and are average in their overall use of technology.\n\nStrewn among remote farm communities across the nation, these residents live in older, modest-sized homes. Typically, life in this segment is a throwback to an earlier era when farming dominated the American landscape. \n\nThis segment is mostly a retirement lifestyle, dominated by singles and couples over 50 years old. Found in small bucolic towns around the country, these high school-educated seniors live in small apartments. \n\nResidents are populated by a blend of families and singles in the nation's second cities. They are mainly high school graduates that rent and work in a mix of service jobs.\n\nMainly younger families and singles who are just starting out. They are often students - full or part-time - focused on building a better life for themselves and their growing families.\n\nOften multi-generational households with middle-aged parents or grandparents and new babies and young children all under one roof. They are entertained by a wide variety of media channels and programs.\n\nWith a population of retired seniors, residents are high-school educated, with modest housing, and live small-town lifestyles. They also enjoy the occasional dinner out. \n\nMostly middle-aged, singles and single parents. They rank above average in their use of technology - perhaps influenced by their urban, fast-paced environment.\n\nThis segment contains families, that work entry-level service jobs. In these inner-city apartment-filled neighborhoods, residents rely on public transportation. \n\nComposed of restless singles and young families in the nation's rural areas. They enjoy the outdoors and are big video gamers. \n\nFilled with younger, mostly single adults and couples just starting out on their career paths in service jobs. They are a magnet for adults in transition some are getting over a recent divorce or transferring to a new company.\n\nPark Bench Seniors are typically retired singles living in the neighborhoods of the nation's satellite cities. With modest educations, these residents maintain low-key, sedentary lifestyles.\n\nThis segment is made up of families in small, isolated towns located throughout the nation's heartland. They have modest educations, sprawling families, and service jobs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12582098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12582098", "title": "Control Engineering (magazine)", "text": "Control Engineering (magazine)\n\nControl Engineering () is a trade publication and web site owned by CFE Media serving the information needs of engineering decision-makers in the global control, instrumentation, and automation marketplace.\n\nEstablished in 1954, \"Control Engineering \" is published monthly. Common topics presented through news, product listings, feature articles, case studies and opinion, included controllers (PLCS & PACs), motors and drives, safety (machine and process), system integration (software, hardware, power supplies, components), control software (including HMI, SCADA and MES), process control, discrete control, industrial networks (fieldbus, Ethernet and wireless), sensors, robotics, I/O, and sustainable/green engineering.\n\n\"Control Engineering\" published six other editions for Europe , Asia , China , Poland , Russia , and the Czech Republic , as well as an online edition for the Middle East .\n\nAs of June 2008, total BPA audited circulation was 87,000 subscribers.\n\nIn April 2010, former owner Reed Business Information announced the magazine's closure; later that month, \"Control Engineering\", \"Consulting-Specifying Engineer\" and \"Plant Engineering\" were acquired by a new company, CFE Media.\n\nControl Engineering Magazine is available in paper, digital, and online versions. The monthly online version contains several blogs that focus on a varitey of hot topics in the world of automation and control.\n\nOne of the blogs is called AIMing for Automated Vehicles and is written by former DARPA Grand Challenge team leader Paul Grayson. He writes about an eclectic assortment of people, parts, and products that people interested in the progress of autonomous vehicles might find interesting. He is also a strong supporter of efforts to improve Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math education in the USA and has started a 4-H technology club in his neighborhood. His adventures working with the next generation of engineers and scientists provide and interesting perspective and sometimes surprises which he reports in the blog.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1054527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1054527", "title": "Corporate law", "text": "Corporate law\n\nCorporate law (also known as business law or enterprise law or sometimes company law) is the body of law governing the rights, relations, and conduct of persons, companies, organizations and businesses. It refers to the legal practice relating to, or the theory of corporations. Corporate law often describes the law relating to matters which derive directly from the life-cycle of a corporation. It thus encompasses the formation, funding, governance, and death of a corporation.\n\nWhile the minute nature of corporate governance as personified by share ownership, capital market, and business culture rules differ, similar legal characteristics - and legal problems - exist across many jurisdictions. Corporate law regulates how corporations, investors, shareholders, directors, employees, creditors, and other stakeholders such as consumers, the community, and the environment interact with one another. Whilst the term company or business law is colloquially used interchangeably with corporate law, business law often refers to wider concepts of \"commercial law\", that is, the law relating to commercial or business related activities. In some cases, this may include matters relating to corporate governance or financial law. When used as a substitute for corporate law, business law means the law relating to the \"business corporation\"(or business enterprises), i.e. capital raising (through equity or debt), company formation, registration, etc.\n\nAcademics identify four legal characteristics universal to business enterprises. These are: \nWidely available and user-friendly corporate law enables business participants to possess these four legal characteristics and thus transact as businesses. Thus, corporate law is a response to three endemic opportunism: conflicts between managers and shareholders, between controlling and non-controlling shareholders; and between shareholders and other contractual counterparts (including creditors and employees).\n\nA corporation may accurately be called a company; however, a company should not necessarily be called a corporation, which has distinct characteristics. In the United States, a company may or may not be a separate legal entity, and is often used synonymous with \"firm\" or \"business.\" According to Black's Law Dictionary, in America a company means \"a corporation — or, less commonly, an association, partnership or union — that carries on industrial enterprise.\" Other types of business associations can include partnerships (in the UK governed by the Partnership Act 1890), or trusts (Such as a pension fund), or companies limited by guarantee (like some community organizations or charities). Corporate law deals with companies that are incorporated or registered under the corporate or company law of a sovereign state or their sub-national states. \n\nThe defining feature of a corporation is its legal independence from the shareholders that own it. Under corporate law, corporations of all sizes have separate legal personality, with limited or unlimited liability for its shareholders. Shareholders control the company through a board of directors which, in turn, typically delegates control of the corporation's day-to-day operations to a full-time executive. Shareholders' losses, in the event of liquidation, are limited to their stake in the corporation, and they are not liable for any remaining debts owed to the corporation's creditors. This rule is called limited liability, and it is why the names of corporations end with \"Ltd.\". or some variant such as \"Inc.\" or \"plc\"). \n\nUnder almost all legal systems corporations have much the same legal rights and obligations as individuals. In some jurisdictions, this extends to allow corporations to exercise human rights against real individuals and the state, and they may be responsible for human rights violations. Just as they are \"born\" into existence through its members obtaining a certificate of incorporation, they can \"die\" when they lose money into insolvency. Corporations can even be convicted of criminal offences, such as corporate fraud and corporate manslaughter.\n\nIn order to understand the role corporate law plays within commercial law, it is useful to understand the historical development of the corporation, and the development of modern company law. \n\nAlthough some forms of companies are thought to have existed during Ancient Rome and Ancient Greece, the closest recognizable ancestors of the modern company did not appear until the 16th century. With increasing international trade, Royal charters were granted in Europe (notably in England and Holland) to merchant adventurers. The Royal charters usually conferred special privileges on the trading company (including, usually, some form of monopoly). Originally, traders in these entities traded stock on their own account, but later the members came to operate on joint account and with joint stock, and the new Joint stock company was born.\n\nEarly companies were purely economic ventures; it was only a belatedly established benefit of holding joint stock that the company's stock could not be seized for the debts of any individual member. The development of company law in Europe was hampered by two notorious \"bubbles\" (the South Sea Bubble in England and the Tulip Bulb Bubble in the Dutch Republic) in the 17th century, which set the development of companies in the two leading jurisdictions back by over a century in popular estimation.\n\nCompanies, almost inevitably, returned to the forefront of commerce, although in England to circumvent the Bubble Act 1720 investors had reverted to trading the stock of unincorporated associations, until it was repealed in 1825. However, the cumbersome process of obtaining Royal charters was simply insufficient to keep up with demand. In England there was a lively trade in the charters of defunct companies. However, procrastination amongst the legislature meant that in the United Kingdom it was not until the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844 that the first equivalent of modern companies, formed by registration, appeared. Soon after came the Limited Liability Act 1855, which in the event of a company's bankruptcy limited the liability of all shareholders to the amount of capital they had invested.\n\nThe beginning of modern company law came when the two pieces of legislation were codified under the Joint Stock Companies Act 1856 at the behest of the then Vice President of the Board of Trade, Mr Robert Lowe. That legislation shortly gave way to the railway boom, and from there the numbers of companies formed soared. In the later nineteenth century depression took hold, and just as company numbers had boomed, many began to implode and fall into insolvency. Much strong academic, legislative and judicial opinion was opposed to the notion that businessmen could escape accountability for their role in the failing businesses. The last significant development in the history of companies was the decision of the House of Lords in \"Salomon v. Salomon & Co.\" where the House of Lords confirmed the separate legal personality of the company, and that the liabilities of the company were separate and distinct from those of its owners.\n\nIn a December 2006 article, \"The Economist\" identified the development of the joint stock company as one of the key reasons why Western commerce moved ahead of its rivals in the Middle East in post-renaissance era.\n\nThe law of business organizations originally derived from the common law of England, and has evolved significantly in the 20th century. In common law countries today, the most commonly addressed forms are:\nThe proprietary limited company is a statutory business form in several countries, including Australia. Many countries have forms of business entity unique to that country, although there are equivalents elsewhere. Examples are the limited liability company (LLC) and the limited liability limited partnership (LLLP) in the United States. Other types of business organizations, such as cooperatives, credit unions and publicly owned enterprises, can be established with purposes that parallel, supersede, or even replace the profit maximization mandate of business corporations.\n\nThere are various types of company that can be formed in different jurisdictions, but the most common forms of company are:\nThere are, however, many specific categories of corporations and other business organizations which may be formed in various countries and jurisdictions throughout the world.\n\nOne of the key legal features of corporations are their separate legal personality, also known as \"personhood\" or being \"artificial persons\". However, the separate legal personality was not confirmed under English law until 1895 by the House of Lords in \"Salomon v. Salomon & Co.\" Separate legal personality often has unintended consequences, particularly in relation to smaller, family companies. In \"B v. B\" [1978] Fam 181 it was held that a discovery order obtained by a wife against her husband was not effective against the husband's company as it was not named in the order and was separate and distinct from him. And in \"Macaura v. Northern Assurance Co Ltd\" a claim under an insurance policy failed where the insured had transferred timber from his name into the name of a company wholly owned by him, and it was subsequently destroyed in a fire; as the property now belonged to the company and not to him, he no longer had an \"insurable interest\" in it and his claim failed.\n\nSeparate legal personality allows corporate groups flexibility in relation to tax planning, and management of overseas liability. For instance in \"Adams v. Cape Industries plc\" it was held that victims of asbestos poisoning at the hands of an American subsidiary could not sue the English parent in tort. Whilst academic discussion highlights certain specific situations where courts are generally prepared to \"pierce the corporate veil\", to look directly at, and impose liability directly on the individuals behind the company; the actually practice of piercing the corporate veil is, at English law, non-existent. However, the court will look beyond the corporate form where the corporation is a sham or perpetuating a fraud. The most commonly cited examples are:\n\nHistorically, because companies are artificial persons created by operation of law, the law prescribed what the company could and could not do. Usually this was an expression of the commercial purpose which the company was formed for, and came to be referred to as the company's \"objects\", and the extent of the objects are referred to as the company's capacity. If an activity fell outside the company's capacity it was said to be \"ultra vires\" and void.\n\nBy way of distinction, the organs of the company were expressed to have various \"corporate powers\". If the objects were the things that the company was able to do, then the powers were the means by which it could do them. Usually expressions of powers were limited to methods of raising capital, although from earlier times distinctions between objects and powers have caused lawyers difficulty. Most jurisdictions have now modified the position by statute, and companies generally have capacity to do all the things that a natural person could do, and power to do it in any way that a natural person could do it.\n\nHowever, references to corporate capacity and powers have not quite been consigned to the dustbin of legal history. In many jurisdictions, directors can still be liable to their shareholders if they cause the company to engage in businesses outside its objects, even if the transactions are still valid as between the company and the third party. And many jurisdictions also still permit transactions to be challenged for lack of \"corporate benefit\", where the relevant transaction has no prospect of being for the commercial benefit of the company or its shareholders.\n\nAs artificial persons, companies can only act through human agents. The main agent who deals with the company's management and business is the board of directors, but in many jurisdictions other officers can be appointed too. The board of directors is normally elected by the members, and the other officers are normally appointed by the board. These agents enter into contracts on behalf of the company with third parties.\n\nAlthough the company's agents owe duties to the company (and, indirectly, to the shareholders) to exercise those powers for a proper purpose, generally speaking third parties' rights are not impugned if it transpires that the officers were acting improperly. Third parties are entitled to rely on the ostensible authority of agents held out by the company to act on its behalf. A line of common law cases reaching back to \"Royal British Bank v Turquand\" established in common law that third parties were entitled to assume that the internal management of the company was being conducted properly, and the rule has now been codified into statute in most countries.\n\nAccordingly, companies will normally be liable for all the act and omissions of their officers and agents. This will include almost all torts, but the law relating to crimes committed by companies is complex, and varies significantly between countries.\n\nCorporate governance is primarily the study of the power relations among a corporation's senior executives, its board of directors and those who elect them (shareholders in the \"general meeting\" and employees). It also concerns other stakeholders, such as creditors, consumers, the environment and the community at large. One of the main differences between different countries in the internal form of companies is between a two-tier and a one tier board. The United Kingdom, the United States, and most Commonwealth countries have single unified boards of directors. In Germany, companies have two tiers, so that shareholders (and employees) elect a \"supervisory board\", and then the supervisory board chooses the \"management board\". There is the option to use two tiers in France, and in the new European Companies (Societas Europaea).\n\nRecent literature, especially from the United States, has begun to discuss corporate governance in the terms of management science. While post-war discourse centred on how to achieve effective \"corporate democracy\" for shareholders or other stakeholders, many scholars have shifted to discussing the law in terms of principal–agent problems. On this view, the basic issue of corporate law is that when a \"principal\" party delegates his property (usually the shareholder's capital, but also the employee's labour) into the control of an \"agent\" (i.e. the director of the company) there is the possibility that the agent will act in his own interests, be \"opportunistic\", rather than fulfill the wishes of the principal. Reducing the risks of this opportunism, or the \"agency cost\", is said to be central to the goal of corporate law.\nThe rules for corporations derive from two sources. These are the country's statutes: in the US, usually the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL); in the UK, the Companies Act 2006 (CA 2006); in Germany, the Aktiengesetz (AktG) and the Gesetz betreffend die Gesellschaften mit beschränkter Haftung (GmbH-Gesetz, GmbHG). The law will set out which rules are mandatory, and which rules can be derogated from. Examples of important rules which cannot be derogated from would usually include how to fire the board of directors, what duties directors owe to the company or when a company must be dissolved as it approaches bankruptcy. Examples of rules that members of a company would be allowed to change and choose could include, what kind of procedure general meetings should follow, when dividends get paid out, or how many members (beyond a minimum set out in the law) can amend the constitution. Usually, the statute will set out model articles, which the corporation's constitution will be assumed to have if it is silent on a bit of particular procedure.\n\nThe United States, and a few other common law countries, split the corporate constitution into two separate documents (the UK got rid of this in 2006). The memorandum of Association (or articles of incorporation) is the primary document, and will generally regulate the company's activities with the outside world. It states which objects the company is meant to follow (e.g. \"this company makes automobiles\") and specifies the authorised share capital of the company. The articles of association (or by-laws) is the secondary document, and will generally regulate the company's internal affairs and management, such as procedures for board meetings, dividend entitlements etc. In the event of any inconsistency, the memorandum prevails and in the United States only the memorandum is publicised. In civil law jurisdictions, the company's constitution is normally consolidated into a single document, often called the charter.\n\nIt is quite common for members of a company to supplement the corporate constitution with additional arrangements, such as \"shareholders' agreements\", whereby they agree to exercise their membership rights in a certain way. Conceptually a shareholders' agreement fulfills many of the same functions as the corporate constitution, but because it is a contract, it will not normally bind new members of the company unless they accede to it somehow. One benefit of shareholders' agreement is that they will usually be confidential, as most jurisdictions do not require shareholders' agreements to be publicly filed. Another common method of supplementing the corporate constitution is by means of \"voting trusts\", although these are relatively uncommon outside the United States and certain offshore jurisdictions. Some jurisdictions consider the company seal to be a part of the \"constitution\" (in the loose sense of the word) of the company, but the requirement for a seal has been abrogated by legislation in most countries.\n\nThe most important rules for corporate governance are those concerning the balance of power between the board of directors and the members of the company. Authority is given or \"delegated\" to the board to manage the company for the success of the investors. Certain specific decision rights are often reserved for shareholders, where their interests could be fundamentally affected. There are necessarily rules on when directors can be removed from office and replaced. To do that, meetings need to be called to vote on the issues. How easily the constitution can be amended and by whom necessarily affects the relations of power.\n\nIt is a principle of corporate law that the directors of a company have the right to manage. This is expressed in statute in the DGCL, where §141(a) states,\n\n(a) The business and affairs of every corporation organized under this chapter shall be managed by or under the direction of a board of directors, except as may be otherwise provided in this chapter or in its certificate of incorporation.\n\nIn Germany, §76 AktG says the same for the management board, while under §111 AktG the supervisory board's role is stated to be to \"oversee\" (\"überwachen\"). In the United Kingdom, the right to manage is not laid down in law, but is found in Part.2 of the Model Articles. This means it is a default rule, which companies can opt out of (s.20 CA 2006) by reserving powers to members, although companies rarely do. UK law specifically reserves shareholders right and duty to approve \"substantial non cash asset transactions\" (s.190 CA 2006), which means those over 10% of company value, with a minimum of £5,000 and a maximum of £100,000. Similar rules, though much less stringent, exist in §271 DGCL and through case law in Germany under the so-called \"Holzmüller-Doktrin\".\n\nProbably the most fundamental guarantee that directors will act in the members' interests is that they can easily be sacked. During the Great Depression, two Harvard scholars, Adolf Berle and Gardiner Means wrote \"The Modern Corporation and Private Property\", an attack on American law which failed to hold directors to account, and linked the growing power and autonomy of directors to the economic crisis. In the UK, the right of members to remove directors by a simple majority is assured under s.168 CA 2006 Moreover, Art.21 of the Model Articles requires a third of the board to put themselves up for re-election every year (in effect creating maximum three year terms). 10% of shareholders can demand a meeting any time, and 5% can if it has been a year since the last one (s.303 CA 2006). In Germany, where employee participation creates the need for greater boardroom stability, §84(3) AktG states that management board directors can only be removed by the supervisory board for an important reason (\"ein wichtiger Grund\") though this can include a vote of no-confidence by the shareholders. Terms last for five years, unless 75% of shareholders vote otherwise. §122 AktG lets 10% of shareholders demand a meeting. In the US, Delaware lets directors enjoy considerable autonomy. §141(k) DGCL states that directors can be removed without any cause, unless the board is \"classified\", meaning that directors only come up for re-appointment on different years. If the board is classified, then directors cannot be removed unless there is gross misconduct. Director's autonomy from shareholders is seen further in §216 DGCL, which allows for plurality voting and §211(d) which states shareholder meetings can only be called if the constitution allows for it. The problem is that in America, directors usually choose where a company is incorporated and §242(b)(1) DGCL says any constitutional amendment requires a resolution by the directors. By contrast, constitutional amendments can be made at any time by 75% of shareholders in Germany (§179 AktG) and the UK (s.21 CA 2006).\n\nIn most jurisdictions, directors owe strict duties of good faith, as well as duties of care and skill, to safeguard the interests of the company and the members. In many developed countries outside the English speaking world, company boards are appointed as representatives of both shareholders and employees to \"codetermine\" company strategy. Corporate law is often divided into corporate governance (which concerns the various power relations within a corporation) and corporate finance (which concerns the rules on how capital is used).\nDirectors also owe strict duties not to permit any conflict of interest or conflict with their duty to act in the best interests of the company. This rule is so strictly enforced that, even where the conflict of interest or conflict of duty is purely hypothetical, the directors can be forced to disgorge all personal gains arising from it. In \"Aberdeen Ry v. Blaikie\" (1854) 1 Macq HL 461 Lord Cranworth stated in his judgment that, However, in many jurisdictions the members of the company are permitted to ratify transactions which would otherwise fall foul of this principle. It is also largely accepted in most jurisdictions that this principle should be capable of being abrogated in the company's constitution. \nThe standard of skill and care that a director owes is usually described as acquiring and maintaining sufficient knowledge and understanding of the company's business to enable him to properly discharge his duties. This duty enables the company to seek compensation from its director if it can be proved that a director has not shown reasonable skill or care which in turn has caused the company to incur a loss. In many jurisdictions, where a company continues to trade despite foreseeable bankruptcy, the directors can be forced to account for trading losses personally. Directors are also strictly charged to exercise their powers only for a proper purpose. For instance, were a director to issue a large number of new shares, not for the purposes of raising capital but in order to defeat a potential takeover bid, that would be an improper purpose.\n\nRonald Coase has pointed out, all business organizations represent an attempt to avoid certain costs associated with doing business. Each is meant to facilitate the contribution of specific resources - investment capital, knowledge, relationships, and so forth - towards a venture which will prove profitable to all contributors. Except for the partnership, all business forms are designed to provide limited liability to both members of the organization and external investors. Business organizations originated with agency law, which permits an agent to act on behalf of a principal, in exchange for the principal assuming equal liability for the wrongful acts committed by the agent. For this reason, all partners in a typical general partnership may be held liable for the wrongs committed by one partner. Those forms that provide limited liability are able to do so because the state provides a mechanism by which businesses that follow certain guidelines will be able to escape the full liability imposed under agency law. The state provides these forms because it has an interest in the strength of the companies that provide jobs and services therein, but also has an interest in monitoring and regulating their behaviour.\n\nMembers of a company generally have rights against each other and against the company, as framed under the company's constitution. However, members cannot generally claim against third parties who cause damage to the company which results in a diminution in the value of their shares or others membership interests because this is treated as \"reflective loss\" and the law normally regards the company as the proper claimant in such cases.\n\nIn relation to the exercise of their rights, minority shareholders usually have to accept that, because of the limits of their voting rights, they cannot direct the overall control of the company and must accept the will of the majority (often expressed as \"majority rule\"). However, majority rule can be iniquitous, particularly where there is one controlling shareholder. Accordingly, a number of exceptions have developed in law in relation to the general principle of majority rule.\n\n\nThrough the operational life of the corporation, perhaps the most crucial aspect of corporate law relates to raising capital for the business to operate. The law, as it relates to corporate finance, not only provides the framework for which a business raises funds - but also provides a forum for principles and policies which drive the fundraising, to be taken seriously. Two primary methods of financing exists with regard to corporate financing, these are:\nEach has relative advantages and disadvantages, both at law and economically. Additional methods of raising capital necessary to finance its operations is that of retained profits Various combinations of financing structures have the capacity to produce fine-tuned transactions which, using the advantages of each form of financing, support the limitations of the corporate form, its industry, or economic sector.. A mix of both debt and equity is crucial to the sustained health of the company, and its overall market value is independent of its capital structure. One notable difference is that interest payments to debt is tax deductible whilst payment of dividends are not, this will incentivise a company to issue debt financing rather than preferred shares in order to reduce their tax exposure. \nA company limited by shares, whether public or private, must have at least one issued share; however, depending on the corporate structure, the formatting may differ. If a company wishes to raise capital through equity, it will usually be done by issuing shares. (sometimes called \"stock\" (not to be confused with stock-in-trade)) or warrants. In the common law, whilst a shareholder is often colloquially referred to as the owner of the company - it is clear that the shareholder is not an owner of the company but makes the shareholder a member of the company and entitles them to enforce the provisions of the company's constitution against the company and against other members. A share is an item of property, and can be sold or transferred. Shares also normally have a nominal or par value, which is the limit of the shareholder's liability to contribute to the debts of the company on an insolvent liquidation. Shares usually confer a number of rights on the holder. These will normally include:\nCompanies may issue different types of shares, called \"classes\" of shares, offering different rights to the shareholders depending on the underlying regulatory rules pertaining to corporate structures, taxation, and capital market rules. A company might issue both ordinary shares and preference shares, with the two types having different voting and/or economic rights. It might provide that preference shareholders shall each receive a cumulative preferred dividend of a certain amount per annum, but the ordinary shareholders shall receive everything else. Corporations will structure capital raising in this way in order to appeal to different lenders in the market by providing different incentives for investment. The total value of issued shares in a company is said to represent its \"equity capital\". Most jurisdictions regulate the minimum amount of capital which a company may have, although some jurisdictions prescribe minimum amounts of capital for companies engaging in certain types of business (e.g. banking, insurance etc.).\nSimilarly, most jurisdictions regulate the maintenance of equity capital, and prevent companies returning funds to shareholders by way of distribution when this might leave the company financially exposed. Often this extends to prohibiting a company from providing financial assistance for the purchase of its own shares.\n\nEvents such as mergers, acquisitions, insolvency, or the commission of a crime will adversely affect the corporation in its current form. At the end of the corporate lifecycle, a corporation may be \"wound up\" and enter into bankruptcy liquidation. This often arises when the corporation is unable to discharge its debts in a timely manner. Comparatively, a merger or acquisition can often mean the altering or extinguishing of the corporation. In addition to the creation of the corporation, and its financing, these events serve as a transition phase into either dissolution, or some other material shift. \n\nLiquidation is the normal means by which a company's existence is brought to an end. It is also referred to (either alternatively or concurrently) in some jurisdictions as \"winding up\" or \"dissolution\". Liquidations generally come in two forms — either \"compulsory liquidations\" (sometimes called \"creditors' liquidations\") and \"voluntary liquidations\" (sometimes called \"members' liquidations\", although a voluntary liquidation where the company is insolvent will also be controlled by the creditors, and is properly referred to as a \"creditors' voluntary liquidation\"). Where a company goes into liquidation, normally a liquidator is appointed to gather in all the company's assets and settle all claims against the company. If there is any surplus after paying off all the creditors of the company, this surplus is then distributed to the members.\n\nAs its names imply, applications for compulsory liquidation are normally made by creditors of the company when the company is unable to pay its debts. However, in some jurisdictions, regulators have the power to apply for the liquidation of the company on the grounds of public good, i.e., where the company is believed to have engaged in unlawful conduct, or conduct which is otherwise harmful to the public at large.\n\nVoluntary liquidations occur when the company's members decide voluntarily to wind up the affairs of the company. This may be because they believe that the company will soon become insolvent, or it may be on economic grounds if they believe that the purpose for which the company was formed is now at an end, or that the company is not providing an adequate return on assets and should be broken up and sold off.\n\nSome jurisdictions also permit companies to be wound up on \"just and equitable\" grounds. Generally, applications for just and equitable winding-up are brought by a member of the company who alleges that the affairs of the company are being conducted in a prejudicial manner, and asking the court to bring an end to the company's existence. For obvious reasons, in most countries, the courts have been reluctant to wind up a company solely on the basis of the disappointment of one member, regardless of how well-founded that member's complaints are. Accordingly, most jurisdictions that permit just and equitable winding up also permit the court to impose other remedies, such as requiring the majority shareholder(s) to buy out the disappointed minority shareholder at a fair value.\n\nInsider trading is the trading of a corporation's stock or other securities (e.g., bonds or stock options) by individuals with potential access to non-public information about the company. In most countries, trading by corporate insiders such as officers, key employees, directors, and large shareholders may be legal if this trading is done in a way that does not take advantage of non-public information. However, the term is frequently used to refer to a practice in which an insider or a related party trades based on material non-public information obtained during the performance of the insider's duties at the corporation, or otherwise in breach of a fiduciary or other relationship of trust and confidence or where the non-public information was misappropriated from the company. Illegal insider trading is believed to raise the cost of capital for securities issuers, thus decreasing overall economic growth.\n\nIn the United States and several other jurisdictions, trading conducted by corporate officers, key employees, directors, or significant shareholders (in the United States, defined as beneficial owners of ten percent or more of the firm's equity securities) must be reported to the regulator or publicly disclosed, usually within a few business days of the trade. Many investors follow the summaries of these insider trades in the hope that mimicking these trades will be profitable. While \"legal\" insider trading cannot be based on material non-public information, some investors believe corporate insiders nonetheless may have better insights into the health of a corporation (broadly speaking) and that their trades otherwise convey important information (e.g., about the pending retirement of an important officer selling shares, greater commitment to the corporation by officers purchasing shares, etc.)\n\nIn the United States, most corporations are incorporated, or organized, under the laws of a particular state. The laws of the state of incorporation normally governs a corporation's internal operations, even if the corporation's operations take place outside that state. Corporate law differs from state to state. Because of these differences, some businesses will benefit from having a corporate lawyer determine the most appropriate or advantageous state in which to incorporate.\n\nBusiness entities may also be regulated by federal laws and in some cases by local laws and ordinances.\n\nA majority of publicly traded companies in the U.S. are Delaware corporations. Some companies choose to incorporate in Delaware because the Delaware General Corporation Law offers lower corporate taxes than many other states. Many venture capitalists prefer to invest in Delaware corporations. Also, the Delaware Court of Chancery is widely recognized as a good venue for the litigation of business disputes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7500075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7500075", "title": "Customer intelligence", "text": "Customer intelligence\n\nCustomer intelligence (CI) is the process of gathering and analyzing information regarding customers, and their details and activities, to build deeper and more effective customer relationships and improve decision-making by vendors.\n\nCustomer intelligence is a key component of effective customer relationship management (CRM), and when effectively implemented it is a rich source of insight into the behaviour and experience of a company's customer base. \n\nAs an example, some customers walk into a store and walk out without buying anything. Information about these customers/prospects (or their visits) may not exist in a traditional CRM system, as no sales are entered on the store cash register. Although no commercial transaction took place, knowing \"why\" customers leave the store (perhaps by asking them, or a store employee, to complete a survey) and using this data to make inferences about customer behaviour, is an example of CI.\n\nCustomer Intelligence begins with reference data – basic key facts about the customer, such as their geographic location.\n\nThis data is then supplemented with transaction data – reports of customer activity. This can be commercial information (for example purchase history from sales and order processing), interactions from service contacts over the phone and via e-mail.\n\nA further subjective dimension can be added, in the form of customer satisfaction surveys or agent data. \n\nFinally, a company can use competitor insight and mystery shopping to get a better view of how their service benchmarks in the market.\n\nBy mining this data, and placing it in context with wider information about competitors, conditions in the industry, and general trends, information can be obtained about customers' existing and future needs, how they reach decisions, and predictions made about their future behavior.\n\nSpeech analytics – used to monitor telephone conversations taking place between companies and customers, using phonetic analysis or speech to text to find keywords and phrases, classify call types and identify trends. \n\nClick tracking – used to monitor the popularity and usage of corporate web sites, this data can provide clues to product interest and buying intention. For example, a company may infer a customer is interested in purchasing a particular service if they are spending time browsing specific product pages.\n\nCustomer relationship management – software solutions used for Salesforce.com, adeptcrmsales and to manage customer relationships which can store data on the quantity, type and category of customer and prospect contacts. \n\nFrontline data capture which may (or may not) form part of a CRM software solution, but which is used by front line agents to record more subjective data regarding customer contacts, such as the root cause of the customer picking up the phone (e.g. they received their bill) or their emotional state.\n\nCustomer satisfaction and market research surveys, often mined via text analytics, which can additionally be applied, for customer intelligence purposes, to contact center notes, e-mail, and other textual sources.\n\nCustomer intelligence provides a detailed understanding of the experience customers have in interacting with a company, and allows predictions to be made regarding reasons behind customer behaviors.\n\nThis knowledge can then be applied to support more effective and strategic decision making – for example, understanding why customers call makes it easier to predict (and plan to reduce) call volumes in a contact centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "15515436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15515436", "title": "Destiny (magazine)", "text": "Destiny (magazine)\n\nDestiny is a monthly high-end business, lifestyle and fashion magazine for women. It is published in South African by Ndalo Media.\n\nNdalo Media is a print and digital media company that owns and publishes Destiny and Destiny Man magazines. It was founded by Khanyi Dhlomo in partnership with Media24 (under Naspers) and published the first issue of Destiny in October 2007.\n\nDestiny is aimed at women who either aspire to be or are actively engaged in business and who are 25–55 years old. The magazine combines business news (South African and global) with fashion, beauty, lifestyle, entertainment, health, travel and inspirational content.\n\nDestiny Man is an alternate-monthly publication aimed at accomplished, stylish, affluent and self-assured South African men. It is the brother publication to Destiny. Destiny Man launched its first issue in July 2009, followed by its online extension in the same month.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5814878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5814878", "title": "Dong Puno", "text": "Dong Puno\n\nRicardo \"Dong\" Puno Jr. (born January 20, 1946) is a Filipino television public affairs host, media executive, newspaper columnist, and lawyer.\n\nRicardo Puno Jr. was born on January 20, 1946 in Manila. Puno was previously Senior Vice President for News and Current Affairs of the ABS-CBN Broadcasting Corporation and Executive Vice President of the ABS-CBN News Channel. On top of that, he wrote articles for his column \"My Viewpoint\" first on \"The Philippine Star\" and later \"The Manila Times\". He was the host for a public affairs program, Viewpoints, shown on ANC.\n\nHe is the senior partner of the Puno and Puno Law Offices, Vice President-General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the nation's flag-carrier, the Philippine Airlines (1986–1990 and 1978–1983) and a member of the Philippine Panel for International Air Negotiations (1979–1990). He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree (cum laude) from Ateneo de Manila University (1965), a Bachelor of Laws degree (cum laude and salutatorian) from the same University in 1969 and a Master of Laws degree from the Harvard Law School. He was also a past president of the Manila Overseas Press Club.\n\nWhen President Joseph Estrada assumed power, Puno was appointed Press Secretary and ran unsuccessfully for a Senate seat in the 2001 senatorial race. After this debacle, he returned to the media profession and re-assumed his old position at ABS-CBN, but lost it anew after he chose to anchor the network's reformatted national late-night newscast \"Insider\" with Ces Oreña-Drilon in 2004. However, due to low ratings, the said newscast was canceled and was replaced by \"Bandila\" which marked the return of Korina Sanchez to the local newscasting scene. (Drilon then joined \"Bandila\".) He then ran unsuccessfully for the lone congressional seat of Muntinlupa City in 2007 against Congressman Ruffy Biazon. With Biazon term-limited (he ran and lost for a Senate seat), Puno again contested the seat in the 2010 election against Biazon's father, Senator Rodolfo Biazon, but lost garnering 27% of the vote against Biazon's 46%.\n\nOn February 2011, he joined AksyonTV and started hosting a weekly political commentary program called \"De Kalibre\".\n\nHe is the recipient of various awards in the fields of media and law: the 1985 TOYM awardee for Media and a KBP Golden Dove awardee (Best Male Host for Magazine Show, 1999; Ka Doroy Achievement Award, 1993 and the Best Public Affairs Show, 1990).\n\nHis program, \"Viewpoint\", won the Catholic Mass Media Awards as Best Public Affairs Programs for three consecutive years (1984, 1985 and 1986) and was elevated to the Hall of Fame. His television shows (\"Dong Puno Live\", \"Viewpoint\" & \"Focus\")\nhave also received recognition from the Gawad CCP Para sa Telebisyon and Star Awards for Television.\n\nOn March 2014, he joined DWIZ and started hosting a public affairs radio program called \"Karambola\".\n\nA son of former Minister of Justice under the Marcos administration, Ricardo C. Puno, Sr. and a brother of former Department of Interior and Local Government Secretary, Ronaldo \"Ronnie\" Puno, he is married to Clodelsa del Castillo and they have two biological sons Ricky (born 1969) and Donnie (born 1970), and nephew Randolf del Castillo (born 1991) lives with him, and three grandchildren Tana (born 1990), Sandro (born 1996) and Santi (born 2002).\n\nHe is currently the president of Guagua National Colleges in Guagua, Pampanga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17831399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17831399", "title": "Dummy purchaser", "text": "Dummy purchaser\n\nA dummy purchaser is an agent who buys property on behalf of another, usually to conceal the true purpose of the acquisition. For instance, a shopping mall developer may hire a dummy buyer to purchase the needed vacant lots. Disclosing the principal's identity might prompt the landowners to hold out for a higher price; hence the need for secrecy. It has been hypothesized that dummy buyers could help private sector developers obtain the land needed for highway construction without the need for eminent domain invocation. A principal in such a relationship may be a partially disclosed principal (i.e. the agent informs the seller that he is buying on behalf of someone, but does not reveal that person's identity) or a completely undisclosed principal (i.e. the agent does not reveal that he is acting on anyone's behalf). A dummy purchaser is also sometimes called a straw man.\n\nIn Australia, during periods of conversion of Government land to freehold or leasehold, the practice (also called \"dummyism\") of wealthy squatters employing someone who qualifies as a \"free selector\" to acquire land that they themselves would not have access to. This practice was particularly useful in acquiring or denying to others access to watercourses and thoroughfares.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "53501511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53501511", "title": "Euan Rellie", "text": "Euan Rellie\n\nEuan Rellie is a New York-based, British investment banker and entrepreneur. He is co-founder (with Charles Maynard) and senior managing director of BDA Partners, a Manhattan-based, Asia-focused investment bank.\nRellie, along with his wife Lucy Sykes, are often praised by magazines for their dress sense and style. They are known for their social presence in New York.\n\nRellie was born in the United Kingdom in 1968. His father Alastair Rellie was an MI6 officer from 1963 to 1992, latterly as Director of Counter Intelligence and Security. After spending his early years in Kinshasa, Congo and Egypt, his family moved to Manhattan’s Upper East Side and later relocated to London. He joined Eton College where he studied History, Mathematics and Economics 1981-1986. After graduating from Eton, he attended Trinity College, Cambridge for a BA and MA in the field of History. In 1990, he was President of the Trinity College Union and President of the Trinity May Ball .\n\nAfter graduating from the University of Cambridge, Rellie joined the Schroders as a Graduate in 1990, rising to Manager in 1993. He worked at Schroders for six years, based in London, New York and Singapore. In 1995, he was Head of SE Asia Execution for Schroders Asia-Pacific Regional Advisory Group. In this role, he spent his time working across Asia. In 1996, he left Schroders and co-founded Business Development Asia LLC, an advisory firm, working for multinational clients who were seeking to invest in Asia, now known as BDA Partners. He became the senior managing director of the company.\n\nHis clients have included AgFeed, Axa Private Equity, C.R. Bard, Dainippon Ink & Chemical, DuPont, Ecolab, The Gores Group, Hanjin, ICI, ICICI, Intel, Kraft Foods, Life Technologies, Lubrizol, Materion, Nalco, Pfizer, Philip Morris, Platinum Equity, Sara Lee, Sigma-Aldrich, Tenneco, ThomsonReuters, and Wockhardt.\n\nHe has advised on several Consumer & Luxury sector transactions and is known on social media as \"#thefashionbanker\".\n\nRellie also serves as the Chairman of Lucy Sykes New York, his wife’s business; on the committee of Soho House New York; and on the board of the West Village Nursery School.\n\nThe Character Euan Pierce from the 2001 American Sitcom Off Centre was based on Rellie. The show's producer Chris Weitz had lived with Rellie in West Village in the late 1990s. Rellie also lived with Toby Young, who made Rellie a character in his 2001 memoir How to Lose Friends and Alienate People. Writing about Rellie, Young wrote that \"however famous an actress or beautiful a supermodel, he’ll ask them out to dinner. He’s incredibly flirtatious. My cousin sat next to him at a dinner once, and she said it was like sitting next to an octopus on crack.\"\n\nRellie's parents were MI6 Director Alastair Rellie and travel writer Annalisa Rellie. \n\nRellie's previous girlfriends included writers Wendell Steavenson and Amanda Cutter Brooks, and historian Lucy Moore. Rellie married Lucy Sykes at Christ Church in Chelsea, London SW3 in May 2002, with a reception at Brooks's Club. They have two children together, Heathcliff Felix Alastair Euan Rellie born 2003, and Titus Jasper Jake Icarus Rellie born 2007 . They live in the West Village of Manhattan and in Bridgehampton, NY.\n"}
{"id": "41742395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41742395", "title": "Fred Anderson (football owner)", "text": "Fred Anderson (football owner)\n\nFred Anderson (died March 1997) was a Sacramento, California based businessman and sports entrepreneur.\n\nAnderson's wealth was self-made. In February 1953, he and his wife Patricia founded Anderson Lumber. It would become Pacific Coast Building Products (PCBP) and eventually expanded to include the manufacturing, contracting, and distributing of building materials. As the company grew, the Andersons undertook philanthropic efforts, sponsoring a wide variety of health and youth initiatives and giving millions to local organizations. An $18 million gift to establish the Anderson Lucchetti Women's and Children's Center at the Sutter Medical Center ranks as the single largest gift from an individual family to any capital project in the Sacramento area. A passion for sports emerged with the sponsorship of a local air show and golfing events.\n\nIn 1991 and 1992 Anderson was owner of the Sacramento Surge of the World League of American Football. The Surge were victors in the second edition of the World Bowl, defeating the Orlando Thunder 21-17 in Montreal.\n\nThe league went dormant after these two seasons but Anderson was able to repurpose his team as a Canadian Football League (CFL) expansion club, now renamed the Sacramento Gold Miners. They were the first American-based team in the CFL. The team had two modestly successful years in Sacramento with attendance in the 15,000 range but faced issues with the bare bones Hornet Stadium and relative isolation as other American teams came and went. When these problems proved insurmountable, Anderson moved the team to San Antonio for the 1995 season where they were renamed the Texans. As the Texans, they made the playoffs for the first time.\n\nBy the end of the 1995 season the other American owners had either folded or, in the case of Baltimore, moved. By his own estimate, Anderson had lost $6 million during the season—far too much to make it worth the effort to go it alone. Anderson decided to fold his own franchise, ending the CFL's four-year effort to gain a footing in the United States. Notably, Anderson is the only American owner to have persisted with the expansion effort from beginning to end. In his chronicle of the CFL American expansion, Willes describes Anderson as a rock and suggests the expansion might have worked had the league found more owners like him. He was \"one of the real heroes of this forgotten era.\"\n\nAlthough football was his main passion, Anderson's holdings were varied. He held a minority stake in the Pittsburgh Pirates and Sacramento Kings. Also in the mid-1990s, Anderson was owner of the Modesto A's, a farm team of the Oakland Athletics. He is reported to have planned to move the team to Sacramento, but this did not come to fruition.\n\nAnderson died in March 1997. His wife Patricia died in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "37358248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37358248", "title": "Fredy Nasser", "text": "Fredy Nasser\n\nFredy Antonio Nasser Selman (born 4 June 1956) is a Honduran businessman, head of the Terra Group (\"Grupo Terra\"). The group includes \"Petróleos de Honduras\" (Hondupetrol) and \"Interairports\". From 2001 to 2006 the Group invested over $300 million. A 2006 study by the Friedrich Ebert Foundation named Nasser one of the three \"most powerful men in Honduras\" (along with \"energy magnate Schucry Kafie, and banker and industrialist Jaime Rosenthal\").\n\nNasser is a graduate in architecture of the Texas A&M University. He is the brother of Maria del Carmen Nasser, appointed Ambassador to Chile, and the son-in-law of Miguel Facussé Barjum.\n"}
{"id": "18553498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18553498", "title": "Georges Panayotis", "text": "Georges Panayotis\n\nGeorges Panayotis (\"Georges Panayotis\" is a pseudonym for Georges Chatzipanayotis) is a French/Greek businessman and consultant for the tourism, hotel and hospitality industries. He has contributed to establishing more than 2,500 hotels (150,000 hotel rooms) in France and throughout EMEA, representing a global investment of over 10.5 billion euros.\n\nPanayotis was born into a family of hoteliers, and left Greece at the age of 18 to study political science. After gaining a management degree at the Paris Dauphine University he began working at Novotel, now part of the Accor Group, eventually becoming International Marketing Director. Having developed specialised marketing and management tools for the hotel industry, he left the group in 1985 to establish MKG Group.\n\nOver the past 30 years, Panayotis has led MKG Conseil, now known as the MKG Group. In 2008 the company had over 110 employees across Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and specialised in four core activities: market surveys, quality control, database management, and industry press. In 2006, the company’s turnover was 12 million euro and was ranked 1st in France, specialising in marketing and the tourism industry, and ranked 20th in the national classification of the top 100 market research institutes by Marketing Magazine.\n\nMKG Group, specialised in the tourism industry, is currently the leader in marketing studies for the worldwide hotel and tourism market.\n\nPanayotis helped launch industry publications Hospitality ON Magazine & hospitality-on.com (previously \"HTR Magazine\" and \"Hôtel Restau\"), and created three major annual events: Worldwide Hospitality Awards, the Global Lodging Forum and the Tourinvest Forum. His published work include \"Constat et Plan Marketing\" (Marketing Status and Planning), \"Marketing Opérationnel des Services\" (Operational Marketing of Services), and \"L'hôtellerie française et son évolution\" (The Hotel Industry in France and its evolution). He holds two Official National Distinctions Medals: Chevalier dans l’Ordre de la Légion d’Honneur (2001) and Chevalier dans l’Ordre National du Mérite.\n\nHe is also a professor at the Accor Academy in Évry, Essonne, Île-de-France and Lecturer at University of Marne la Vallée, Île-de-France, social sciences, tourism and leisure, and a consultant for several radio (France Inter, RMC) and television stations focussing on the economy, travel and hospitality industry ( BFM, France 24, . He sits on the advisory panel for the Minister of the Economy, Industry and Employment (France) &. In 1988 he was a candidate in the 13ème circonscription for the 15th arrondissement of Paris (Saint-Lambert, Javel) elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "189409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189409", "title": "Hales Trophy", "text": "Hales Trophy\n\nThe Hales Trophy (officially the North Atlantic Blue Riband Challenge Trophy) is an award for the fastest Atlantic crossing by a commercial vessel. It was created in 1935 by Harold K. Hales a British politician and owner of Hales Brothers shipping company, donated the trophy. to be a permanent, tangible expression of the Blue Riband, the unofficial accolade then given for this feat. Hales also wished to formalize the rules regarding the contest, which up to then had no official form, though they were, by tradition, widely recognized. The rules for the Hales Trophy were different from the traditional rules for the Blue Riband (for example, the Hales Trophy was originally only awarded for westbound records) and changed several times thereafter. It was awarded to just three Blue Riband holders during the express liner era; to the Italian liner \"Rex\" in 1935, the French \"Normandie\" in 1936, and the American \"United States\" in 1952. Cunard's \"Queen Mary\", Blue Riband holder in 1936 and again from 1938 until 1952, did not receive the award. Following the retirement of \"United States\" in 1969 the award languished, until revived in 1990 for the Incat passenger/car ferry \"Hoverspeed Great Britain\" when she established a new speed record for a commercial vessel on her eastbound delivery voyage without passengers that year. The trophy has been won twice since then, each time by an Incat vessel.\n\nIn 1935, Harold K. Hales (1868–1942), a member of the UK Parliament and owner of a shipping company, commissioned a Sheffield goldsmith to produce a large trophy to be presented to the fastest ship crossing the Atlantic. The four-foot-tall, nearly 100-pound Hales Trophy is made of solid silver and heavy gilt fashioned with a globe resting on two winged figures of Victory standing on a base of carved green onyx, with an enamelled blue ribbon encircling the middle, and decorated with models of galleons, modern ocean liners and statues of Neptune and Amphitrite, god and goddess of the sea. The trophy is surmounted by a figure depicting speed pushing a three-stacked liner against a figure symbolizing the forces of the Atlantic, which is represented in blue enamel with the traditional ocean liner route indicated by a red enamelled line.\n\nThe rules for the trophy did not correspond to the traditional rules for the Blue Riband, in that the trophy was to be awarded only to surface passenger ship achieving the fastest speed in the westbound direction. Other rule changes further complicated the situation. For example, before the trophy was finished, Hales made arrangements to present the trophy to the \"Rex\". In the meantime, \"Normandie\" took the record and Hales changed the rules so that any new claimant must wait three months to give the current holder a chance to beat the new record. In August 1935, the trophy was presented to the \"Rex\", and then transferred to the \"Normandie\" two months later. Cunard White Star's \"Queen Mary\" was the next winner, but Cunard White Star refused to accept the trophy. The Queen's captain explained that, \"We don't believe in racing on the Atlantic, or in blue ribands, or trophies and the like.\" Hales again changed the rules so that the trophy could only be won by a \"non-British ship\".\n\nHales died in 1942 and the location of the trophy was unknown when the United States Lines (USL) started planning the maiden voyage of its new record breaker, the \"United States\". The trophy was found at the Sheffield goldsmith where it had been originally made. In 1952, USL accepted the trophy at a ceremony attended by 400 guests. It was displayed in USL's New York City headquarters until after the \"United States\" was taken out of service in 1969. Ten years later, the trophy was transferred to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy's museum as a relic.\n\nIn 1986, Richard Branson was successful in setting a new eastbound transatlantic speed record in the powerboat \"Challenger II\". He was not awarded the Hales trophy because his boat was not a commercial vessel. In 1990, the catamaran passenger/car ferry \"Hoverspeed Great Britain\" was scheduled to take a delivery voyage from her Australian builders to begin cross channel operations. Her owners confirmed with the Hales trophy trustees in the UK that their vessel would be eligible for the trophy if they beat the \"United States\" record, even though the ship would not actually carry passengers on the trip. The trustees ruled that the ship still met the criteria. After \"Hoverspeed Great Britain's\" successful voyage, the Maritime Museum considered challenging the decision on the grounds that Hales donated the award for ships providing Atlantic passenger service, but decided not to because of the cost of legal fees. The trophy case at the academy remained empty for the next eight years until Carnival Cruise Lines loaned the museum a replica of the trophy. In 1992, the Italian powerboat \"Destriero\" made a voyage at , breaking \"Challenger II's\" record, though she was not awarded the Hales Trophy either. In June 1998 the trophy was won by \"Catalonia\", delivery voyage (without passengers) at , followed a month later by the current holder of the Hales Trophy, the catamaran \"Cat-Link V\" (now \"Fjord Cat\") for a 1998 delivery voyage at .\n\nINCAT, the builders of the last three winners of the Hales Trophy have possession of the trophy at their shipyard offices in Hobart, Tasmania. The formal records of the Hales Trophy Trustees are now lodged with Lloyds Register in London. Anyone wishing to access the formal records should contact Lloyds Register regarding obtaining permission to inspect the Hales Trophy Trust records.\n"}
{"id": "876408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=876408", "title": "Harry Harkimo", "text": "Harry Harkimo\n\nHarry Juhani \"Hjallis\" Harkimo (born 2 November 1953 in Helsinki) is a Finnish businessman, YouTuber, sportsperson and a member of the Finnish Parliament. He was elected representing the National Coalition Party; however, in 2018 he left the party and founded new political movement, Liike Nyt. Harkimo is the chairman of the board of the Helsinki-based ice-hockey team Jokerit. He is also the developer of the team's home arena, Hartwall Areena, and an investor in sports. Harkimo has also hosted Finnish version of \"The Apprentice\" in 2009–2013. In October 2017, Harkimo started to make YouTube videos where he speaks about politics, business, sports etc.\n\nHarkimo was elected to the parliament in 2015, gaining 11,416 votes in the elections.\n\nHe has also been a professional sailor and a sports manager. In 1986–1987 he took part of round-the-world single-handed yacht race BOC Challenge and finished third.\n\nEarly 2000s, Hjallis divorced his member-of-parliament-wife Leena Harkimo and married younger member-of-parliament Merikukka Forsius-Harkimo. Harry Harkimo and Merikukka Forsius-Harkimo divorced after one year of marriage.\n\nHarkimo has been vegetarian since start of 2018.\n"}
{"id": "52442567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52442567", "title": "ISpace Foundation", "text": "ISpace Foundation\n\niSpace Foundation is a technology hub in Ghana known to offer a co-working space, tools and facilities for entrepreneurs and startups to launch and manage their business ideas. It was founded in 2013 by two technology entrepreneurs Josiah Kwesi Eyison and Fiifi Baidoo.\n\nThough iSpace is known as a technology hub its activities have not been limited to technology.\n\nREACH was a mentoring and networking program designed to connect Ghanaian startups with Google entrepreneurs.\n\nThe Accra Negawatt Competition was a competition by the World Bank in partnership with the space to generate technology software solutions to the power crisis which faced Ghana.\n\nThe Code to Startup program was designed to give individuals programming skills needed to launch their technology startups.\n\nThe Unlocking Women and Technology program – an initiative of iSpace in partnership with Mobile Web was designed to get more females into technology by giving them computer programming skills and access to startup funds. Florence Tofa and Josiah Eyison are passionate about empowering women through the use of technology.To be rich in this current generation, one needs a lot of this new resource and that is what UWAT aims at doing by equipping women with the requisite skills to survive this technological era.\nOnline forms were circulated on the internet,104 women applied and all were taken through interview sessions from 1 to 2 September 2016 at Mobile Web Ghana. Selected applicants were taken through a twelve weeks course training in some programming languages, entrepreneurship and business training.The sessions began on 10 September 2016 From 9am to 2pm at Mobile Web Ghana and 10 October 2016 at Ispace Foundation. There were weekend schedules and weekday schedules to enable career women and students alike to have a flexible period.\nAfter the twelve weeks class an all Female Pitch competition was held 0n 26 November 2016 and 3 December 2016 respectively to select applicants for an accelerator programme where they will be given funding for their startup.\n\nThe accelerator programme ran for thirteen weeks.\n\nThrough the 3D Printing Hackathon, Eden Labs which is based in iSpace creates a platform for developers to train and also showcase their 3D designs and products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28947818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28947818", "title": "Intaglio (conference)", "text": "Intaglio (conference)\n\nIntaglio is the annual international Business school summit hosted by Indian Institute of Management Calcutta. The flagship event of IIM-C, it was started in 1989 as the National Business School Meet (NBSM). Intaglio, traditionally held over a 3-day weekend in January, serves as a platform facilitating the interaction of eminent personalities from the industry, academia, media and government, holding conferences, workshops and seminars by experts in different fields on a wide range of topics.\n\nIntaglio in 2007 became the first event of its kind in India to achieve the ISO 9001:2000 certification from the International Organization for Standardization.\n\nIn 2010, Intaglio got the distinction of being the first carbon-neutral B-school event in India. This is being done through a number of environment-friendly measures such as using notepads and bags made of recycled paper and encouraging the use of social networking sites, emails and SMSes to publicise the event.\n\nReflecting the Golden Jubilee of IIM Calcutta, the theme of Intaglio 2011 was \"\"Perspectives at 50... Genesis of a new tomorrow\".\n\nThe original version of Intaglio – The National Business School Meet – was started by the 25th Batch of IIM Calcutta in the year 1989. The meet consisted of a myriad of competitions viz. Strategy building competitions, presentation competition \"Shastrarth\"\" and the like.\n\nThe meet was rechristened \"Intaglio\" in the January 2002 edition.\n\nIntaglio 2008-09 was held on the IIM Calcutta campus from 8 – 11 January 2009, this edition saw over 15,000 participants from more than 60 countries, and participation from 190 companies, The total prize money for winners across events amounted to INR 10 Lakhs.\n\nEvery year, Intaglio organizes \"Reverberations\", a series of lectures by management and business leaders.\n\nOlympus is the flagship event of Intaglio. It aims at identifying the most promising future leader amongst the students of the 6 IIMs (Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Calcutta, Indore, Kozhikode, Lucknow) and select international B-schools.\n\nIn 2009, the event was won by Ms. Joo Yi from CEIBS, China. Repeating the institute's success, the following 2010 edition of the event was won by Mr. John Timms from CEIBS, China.\n\nThis boardroom challenge aims at testing the all round business acumen of the participants. This game requires the participants to allocate resources, battle uncertainty and tackle competition by making the most of the limited resources available. This is the first competition in the country to have in-house real time business simulation software. Prelims give the candidates a feel of running a full-scale business in a completely dynamic environment.\nThose who manage to clear the preliminary rounds are further put to test in the on-campus finals involving multiple rounds of business challenges where decision making and strategic thinking are prerequisites to survive. The final round is designed to match a high pressure boardroom battle where the participants don the hats of the top level management of a firm for the coveted title.\n\nThis event gives participants the opportunity to develop a wide range of policies and test them against the wits of equally capable competition and an esteemed panel.\n\nThe Great Innovation Challenge tests the participants on creativity and innovation, qualities that differentiate an outstanding manager from a good one.\nThe event gives participants the opportunity to work on live problems faced by Intaglio’s knowledge partners in a real life environment. An onsite field visit, interaction with company executives and thorough mentoring by the festival’s consulting partners helps participants get to the crux of the problem at hand and devise innovative solutions.\n\nIntaglio’s Showcase event, Consulting Knights, challenges the participants with a comprehensive case developed with the fest’s corporate partners that tests their ability to understand the heart of the problem and search for answers. Traditionally, one of the most prestigious events at Intaglio, Consulting knights has seen participation from all over the world including the likes of NUS, Wharton etc.\n\nIntaglio undertakes several social initiatives. In Intaglio 2008-09 started by holding team-building, creativity and public speaking workshops in Kendriya Vidyalaya School; this was a year-long initiative taken by the Intaglio team.\n\nWith 2009 being the year of general elections, Intaglio partnered ‘Jaago Re’ in spreading awareness about the elections to the youth of India. Furthermore, live events like inviting NGOs working with local artisans/children to exhibit their handiworks and screening daily social documentaries, were conducted.\n\nFor the online audiences, the stories and challenges Intaglio's partner NGOs faced were showcased. In the 2010-11 edition, these partnerships will be developed further to make them a permanent feature of Intaglio. Intaglio 2010-11 will feature events in collaboration with Antyodaya and Sunehra Kal, for which Intaglio has set up a corpus of INR 400,000 to support education and women empowerment.\n\nWith participation from more than 160 national & international business schools and over 175 corporates, SLP would provide students a platform to interact with some of the brightest minds from across a range of domains. SLP includes talks and panel discussions by eminent personalities like D Shivkumar, the head of Nokia India, S.K. Roongta, the Chairman of SAIL and the CEO of KKR, Joy Bhattacharya. In addition, students are also able to compete with participants from top Indian and international B-schools in On-campus events.\n\n"}
{"id": "35936261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35936261", "title": "Johannes Enschedé III", "text": "Johannes Enschedé III\n\nJohannes Enschedé III (7 March 1785 in Haarlem – 8 October 1866 in Haarlem) was a Haarlem newspaper editor and printer.\n\nHe was the great grandson of the founder of the Joh. Enschedé company, and the oldest son of Johannes Enschedé Jr.. Like his father and grandfather before him, he was a member of the \"Dutch Society of Science\" and the \"Teylers Second Society\". He studied law in Leiden and returned to become partner in the family company at the young age of 20, where he became editor of the Opregte Haarlemsche Courant. On 25 March 1810 he married Catharina Hillegonda van Walré, (Haarlem, 16 August 1791 - Haarlem, 18 December 1845) the daughter of Jan van Walré and Maria Kops. From this marriage was born on 20 November 1811 a son, Johannes Enschedé IV.\n\nLike his father, he was a regent of the St. Elizabeth's-Gasthuis and the Hofje van Staats en Noblet. Johannes Enschedé III was judge of instruction, Auditor soldier, a member of the Municipal Council and member of the House of Representatives (Netherlands).\n\nEnschedé III continued his father's collection of art and books, but after his death these were auctioned by his heirs, much to the disappointment of his nephew Adriaan Justus Enschedé, who bought as much of the collection as he could.\n\n"}
{"id": "3931615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3931615", "title": "Johannes Wolfgang Willy Friedlieb Heuer", "text": "Johannes Wolfgang Willy Friedlieb Heuer\n\nJohannes Wolfgang Willy Friedlieb Heuer (1910 – 14 September 1993) was born in Kiel and started his working life in Hamburg, Germany. \n\nHe arrived in Cape Town, South Africa by ship with his wife and two children in 1953. Heuer was the founder of a family business now known as Musikhaus W. Heuer which was established in Stellenbosch in 1955.\n"}
{"id": "31231525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31231525", "title": "John Orr Young", "text": "John Orr Young\n\nJohn Orr Young (June 25, 1886 – May 1, 1976) was an American advertiser who, with Raymond Rubicam, founded the Young & Rubicam advertising agency.\n\nHis first job in advertising was at the \"Salt Lake City Tribune\" in 1909; in 1910, he joined Lord & Thomas, and in 1913, he was hired by Procter & Gamble to manage advertising for Crisco.\n\nIn 1918, he worked at the Armstrong agency in Chicago, where he shared an office with Raymond Rubicam. In 1921, he worked at N. W. Ayer & Son, where Rubicam was again his coworker. In 1923, Rubicam was denied a promotion to partner, and he and Young left Ayer to found their own agency.\n\nIn 1927, Young left the firm of Young & Rubicam, and in 1934 he retired from advertising.\n\nIn 1940, Young worked for Wendell Willkie's unsuccessful presidential campaign. In the aftermath of the Second World War, he corresponded with Dwight Eisenhower regarding Eisenhower's presidential campaign, and is credited with beginning the \"Draft Eisenhower\" movement.\n\nIn 1949, Harper and Brothers published his book \"Adventures in Advertising\".\n\nYoung was the great-grandfather of director and producer Cynthia Wade.\n"}
{"id": "50445931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50445931", "title": "Jung v. Association of American Medical Colleges", "text": "Jung v. Association of American Medical Colleges\n\nThe anti-trust class-action lawsuit Jung v. AAMC alleged collusion to prevent American trainee doctors from negotiating for better working conditions. The working conditions of medical residents often involved 80- to 100-hour workweeks. The suit had some early success, but failed when the U.S. Congress enacted a statute exempting matching programs from federal anti-trust laws.\n\nEvery year, American medical students and graduates participate along with foreign-trained physicians in a national matching plan to obtain a position in an accredited resident training program. Applicants and programs that participate in the matching plan submit rank-ordered preferences for training. A mathematical algorithm is used to place an applicant in a preferred program that also prefers the applicant.\n\nThe National Resident Matching Program, also referred to as \"The Match\", is one of several national matching plans in the United States.\n\nThe suit was launched on behalf of all current and former medical residents against defendants that oversaw and participated in the matching process as well as institutions that employed medical residents.\n\nThe three physicians who launched the suit alleged that the NRMP Matching program was an anti-competitive practice, claiming that:\n\n\nThe defendants challenged the admissibility of the lawsuit with several arguments, including a lack of jurisdiction and that the plaintiffs had not been injured. The court dismissed the cases against two defendants for lack of jurisdiction, and three because the claims of conspiracy did not involve them. The federal district court did allow the case to proceed against 17 defendants, ruling:\n\n... the Court finds that plaintiffs adequately have alleged a common agreement to displace competition in the recruitment, hiring, employment and compensation of resident physicians and to impose a scheme of restraints that has the purpose and effect of fixing, artificially depressing, standardizing and stabilizing resident physician compensation and other terms of employment among certain defendants.\n\nThe lawsuit ended when Congress enacted legislation as a rider added to an unrelated bill (the Pension Funding Equity Act) that exempted participation in a matching program from federal anti-trust laws.\n\nThe rider was called \"Confirmation of antitrust status of graduate medical resident matching programs\" (Section 207). Neither the rider nor the then-ongoing Jung v. AAMC case was debated. The rider was lobbied for by the AAMC and the American Hospital Association, and sponsored by Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire and Senator Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts. Senators Kohl, Feingold, and Bingaman publicly criticized the way in which the rider was added.\n\nThe rider praised the 50-year-old Matching Program, saying that \"[a]ntitrust lawsuits challenging the matching process, regardless of their merit or lack thereof, have the potential to undermine this highly efficient, pro-competitive, and long standing process\" and \"would divert the scarce resources of our country's teaching hospitals and medical schools from their crucial missions of patient care, physician training, and medical research\"\n\nThe bill containing the rider was signed into law by President George W. Bush on April 8, 2004.\n\nThe new law prohibited \"using allegations related to the Match to support any antitrust claim\", retroactively. The court ruled that the plaintiff's case was dependent on allegations related to the Match. The case was dismissed under the authority of the new law.\n\n"}
{"id": "3055332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3055332", "title": "Livingston L. Biddle Jr.", "text": "Livingston L. Biddle Jr.\n\nLivingston Ludlow Biddle Jr. (May 26, 1918 – May 3, 2002) was an American author and promoter of funding of the arts, from a wealthy Pennsylvania family.\n\nLivingston Ludlow Biddle was born in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, on May 26, 1918. \nHis mother was Euginie Carter Law, and father was Livingston Ludlow Biddle (1877–1959) of the Biddle family of Philadelphia, who published poems such as \"The Understanding Hills\".\nAncestors included grandfather Edward Biddle (1851–1933) who married Emily Taylor Drexel (1851–1883), daughter of Anthony Joseph Drexel, and great grandfather Nicholas Biddle (1786–1844), linking to two major banking families.\nHe attended the Montgomery School in Chester Springs, Pennsylvania and St. George's School in Newport, Rhode Island.\nHe graduated from Princeton University in 1940, majoring in English and French. He was also on the tennis team.\n\nHe went to work as a reporter for the \"Philadelphia Bulletin\" newspaper until World War II broke out. Several of his cousins and uncles were military leaders, but his poor eyesight limited his service to driving ambulances in Africa. After the war he wrote short stories and four novels set in Philadelphia.\nFrom 1963 to 1965 he worked as staff assistant to Senator Claiborne Pell, who was a classmate from both St. George's and Princeton. He helped draft the legislation creating the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and the National Endowment for the Humanities.\nHe was appointed by President Jimmy Carter as the third chairman of the NEA in 1977 and served from 1981.\n\nBiddle married Cordelia Fenton who died in 1972.\nIn 1973 he married artist Catharina Baart (1912–2005), who had been born in the Netherlands. She taught art in the Washington, DC public schools from the 1950s to 1974.\n\nHe died May 3, 2002.\n\nHis daughter from his first marriage, Cordelia Frances Biddle (born 1947), also became an author. A series features the fictitious Philadelphia character Martha Beale.\n\n"}
{"id": "8099122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8099122", "title": "Logistics center", "text": "Logistics center\n\nA logistics center, or depot, is a facility dedicated to logistical operations. A logistics center might be a warehouse, freight forwarder, or a repair depot.\n\nThe United States Air Force (USAF) is serviced by three air logistics centers (also known as depots) at which Maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) operations are performed:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40011948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40011948", "title": "LucFosther Diop", "text": "LucFosther Diop\n\nLucas Fotsing Takou (born 1980), known as LucFosther Diop, is a Cameroonian artist, filmmaker, actor and entrepreneur. As an artist, he is best known for his drawings, collages, performances and films exploring the ongoing repercussions of the western neocolonialism and imperialism within the contemporary context of globalisation.\n\nLucFosther Diop was born in 1980 in Douala. After spending his young age having a very difficult relationship specially with his father, at the age of 17, he moved from the family house in Douala to his uncle's place in Bafoussam (the West Region of Cameroon) where he got his diploma of secondary studies in 2000. Then, went to study fine arts in Yaoundé where he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree at the Yaounde 1 University in 2003. After obtaining a grant from the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2009, he studied for two years at the Rijksakademie van beeldende kunsten in Amsterdam, Netherlands.\n\nHe is the first artist to benefit from a residency grant at ArtBakery (Bonendale, Douala, Cameroon) in 2003, at the MTN Cameroon Foundation (Douala) in 2007 and a digital arts research and production Unesco-Aschberg award for French Africa in 2013.\n\nDiop exhibited his work during the 3rd OK Video International Festival, National Gallery of Indonesia in Jakarta (2007), World One Minute Video, Today Art Museum in Beijing (2008), 2nd Thessaloniki Biennial (2009), International Symposium on Electronic Arts (ISEA) 2010, PHotoEspaña (2011), the Havana biennial (2012) and the 18th International Contemporary Art Festival SESC_Videobrasil, 2013.\n\nLucFosther Diop started making drawing on the free spaces of his books at the primary school like a hobby. His difficult familial atmosphere develops in him a strong solitary attitudes. He did not really got the feeling to play like other kids and was spending his time on trying to reproduce the images around. After he got the financial support of the Director of his secondary school in 1993, he bought colours, brushes and other tools for beginners. Then started making portraits, flowers and landscape in a very realistic ways. LucFosther represented his school and university many times in artistic competitions between 1995 and 2003. He really started getting in touch with film tools at the ArtBakery where he learned a lot about contemporary art and began to develop his process as an artist. Today, favouring a poetic point of view, LucFosther Diop is developing a research project on neocolonialism and imperialism, and their social, political, cultural, historical, geographic, economic and urban influences and repercussions. This research is essentially based on digital and media experimentation through photography, collage, drawing, video, ephemeral interventions, video performances, recycled documents and files found on the web and diversion of their content's meaning. He is calling these works \"virtual made\" or <nowiki>\"neo ready made\"</nowiki> and really enjoy the works by Marcel Duchamp, Alfredo Jaar, Olga Kisseleva, William Kentridge, Mona Hatoum, Pascal Kenfack, Goddy Leye, Bob Marley, Fela Kuti, Youssou Ndour and Richard Bona. LucFosther Diop is one of the artists presented in the documentary '’OF AMSTERDAM'’ directed by Catarina Neves Ricci in 2012.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47305658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47305658", "title": "MD&amp;DI", "text": "MD&amp;DI\n\nMD&DI is a trade magazine for the medical device and diagnostic industry published by UBM Canon (Los Angeles). It includes peer-reviewed articles on specific technology issues and overviews of key business, industry, and regulatory topics. It was established in 1979. In 2009 it had a monthly print circulation of 48,040 but is now an online publication with a claimed circulation of 89,000. UBM Canon and the magazine has also sponsored the Medical Design and Manufacturing (MD&D) West Conference & Exposition (formerly the MD&DI West Conference & Expo), a medical device trade show, since 1978.\n\nThe magazine sponsored the Medical Design Excellence Awards and produces a list of 100 Notable People in the Medical Device Industry. The term \"use error\" was first used in May 1995 in an MD&DI guest editorial, \"The Issue Is 'Use,' Not 'User,' Error,\" by William Hyman.\n"}
{"id": "2431143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2431143", "title": "Mary Duke Biddle", "text": "Mary Duke Biddle\n\nMary Lillian Duke Biddle (November 16, 1887 – June 14, 1960) was an American philanthropist.\n\nShe was born as Mary Lillian Duke on November 16, 1887 to Benjamin Newton Duke in Durham, North Carolina. She attended Durham's Trinity College, the institutional predecessor of Duke University, which was named in honor of her family. She graduated in 1907 with a degree in English.\n\nShe was a great enthusiast for the arts and traveled frequently with her family to New York City for the theater and opera, later becoming an accomplished singer and musician.\n\nAround 1918, she was given her father's brick-and-limestone Beaux-Arts townhouse on Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street. It was built in 1901 and is now known as the Benjamin N. Duke House. It is one of only nine surviving mansions on Fifth Avenue.\nHer marriage to Anthony Joseph Drexel Biddle, Jr. in 1915 ended in divorce in 1931. Their children were Mary Duke Biddle Trent Semans and Nicholas Benjamin Duke Biddle.\n\nShe and her husband owned an estate, \"Linden Court\", in Tarrytown, New York, bought from the William R. Harris family in 1921. It still stands today as the Tarrytown House Estate and Conference Center.\n\nShe established the Mary Duke Biddle Foundation in 1956. Since then, the foundation has donated more than $28 million in grants to non-profit organizations.\n\nThe Mary Duke Biddle Estate at Durham, North Carolina, was her home from 1935 until her death in 1960. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2013. \n\n"}
{"id": "53844252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53844252", "title": "Mehdi Yahyanejad", "text": "Mehdi Yahyanejad\n\nMehdi Yahyanejad is a tech entrepreneur who founded Balatarin.com, a news sharing website in Persian in 2006. Balatarin has been blocked by the Iranian government in Iran and has been the target of hacking and DDOS attacks by the Iranian government. Mehdi Yahyanejad has also co-founded NetFreedom Pioneers which is an organization dedicated increasing access to Internet. He launched the Toosheh project, a method to stream data files to Iran through satellite TV in April 2016. He works on building technologies to allow Internet access in remote areas and offline content sharing. He has also published a number of articles and educational videos on cyber security to train journalist and citizen journalists.\n\nMehdi Yahyanejad was born in Iran in 1975. He attended Alborz High School and studied Physics at Sharif University in Tehran. He completed his PhD in Physics from MIT in 2004. He was a post doctoral fellow at Stanford University conducting research on computational genetics.\n\nMehdi Yahyanejad is winner of a Bronze medal for the Iranian science team at the 1993 International Physics Olympiad. In 2006, his weekly podcast Radio Haftegi received a User Award at The BOBs (weblog award) organized by Deutsche Welle.\n\nGigaom Article: Activists vow to defeat Iran's Internet censorship\n\nInterview: BBC Persian Click with Mehdi Yahyanejad on Toosheh Project(2016)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2721106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2721106", "title": "Milan Panić", "text": "Milan Panić\n\nMilan Panić (, ); born 20 December 1929) is a Serbian American former Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, humanitarian, and multimillionaire businessman based in Newport Beach and Pasadena, California. He served as Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from 1992 to 1993. During and after his time as Prime Minister, he campaigned for peace and democracy in the Balkan region. He ran for President of Serbia in 1992, ultimately coming in second to Slobodan Milošević in an election marked by allegations of media and vote tampering by the ruling party. Panić became Prime Minister of Yugoslavia while an American citizen. The legality of retaining US citizenship while accepting this office has been questioned based on a Constitutional prohibition of a US citizen accepting office on behalf of a foreign nation. Panić is the first US citizen to occupy a high-level political position in a foreign country since Golda Meir.\n\nOutside of his political and humanitarian activities, Panić built a lengthy career in the pharmaceutical and medical industries. He grew ICN Pharmaceuticals from a small operation in his garage into a global pharmaceutical corporation listed on the New York Stock Exchange, with over $672 million in annual sales across 90 countries at its peak. After retiring from ICN, he spun off an ICN subsidiary and renamed it MP Biomedicals. The company is a global producer of life science and diagnostic products, with operations in North America, Asia, Australia, and Europe. In October 2015, Panić announced the pending sale of MP Biomedicals to a Chinese chemical company, Valiant Fine Chemicals Co., Ltd.\n\nPanić pursues philanthropy personally and through his Milan Panić Jr. Foundation, as well as MP Global Enterprises & Associates, LLC. As part of his philanthropic efforts, he has sponsored scholarships at the MIT-Harvard Medical School Program and lectured on peacebuilding at George Washington University and University of Southern California. He is also a member of the President's cabinet at Chapman University, Vice Chairman and sponsor of the Los Angeles Opera, and frequent sponsor of California cultural institutions and charities.\n\nPanić was born on 20 December 1929 in Belgrade, Kingdom of Yugoslavia (present-day Serbia) into a middle-class family. His father, a prominent government official, died when he was three years old, leaving Panić’s mother to raise him and his sisters. Faced with a growing shortage of goods due to the Nazi occupation of Belgrade, Panić started a working vegetable farm to support his family and community. As a young student, he gravitated toward geography and chemistry, assembling a small laboratory in his room to conduct experiments. During World War II, Panić, then only 14 years old, joined Josip \"Marshal\" Tito’s partisan resistance to fight the growing Nazi influence in Yugoslavia. After returning from military service, he resumed his secondary studies in biochemistry at the Belgrade Faculty of Technology. Panić enrolled as a medical student at the University of Belgrade medical school before transferring to the biochemistry degree program.\n\nPanić was an avid cyclist from his youth into early adulthood. Over the course of his cycling career, he eventually rose to become a Yugoslavian national champion and competed at the international level on prominent teams including the Yugoslavian national and Olympic teams. While traveling to an international cycling tournament in the Netherlands in 1955, Panić defected to Austria with his wife Jelica Panić (née Narandzic.)\n\nAfter defecting to Austria in August 1955, Panić and his wife applied for asylum in Germany and moved to a West German refugee camp. While in Germany, he enrolled in the PhD program at the University of Heidelberg and worked as a furniture mover. After receiving asylum in Germany several months after his initial arrival, Panić applied for a program that resettled refugees in the United States. Upon their acceptance into the program, he and Jelica moved to Fontana, California in early 1956. Panić worked in labs at Keiser Steel and the University of Southern California, where he also studied biochemistry. In 1959, Panić decided to start his own business, the International Chemical and Nuclear Corporation (ICN).\n\nIn July 1992, Panić assumed the position of Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, at the request of Yugoslav President Dobrica Ćosić and Serbian President Slobodan Milošević. Panić set out goals of achieving peace, drafting a constitution, lifting U.N. sanctions, and pushing for the closure of concentration camps. In August 1992, he played a central role in the London International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia, which called for international attention to the country’s worsening economic and political situation. At the conference, Panić submitted a twelve-point Plan for Peace. One month later, Panić delivered a \"Speech of Peace\" address in front of the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nOn 2 December 1992, Panić announced his intention to challenge Milošević for the Serbian presidency, campaigning on a platform of economic reforms and bringing a peaceful resolution to the Bosnian War. Panić contended that Milošević had crippled Serbia by allowing unemployment and inflation to rise, while inciting isolation and sanctions by the international community. Panić appealed directly to Serbian youth and older voters seeking a compromise in the ongoing conflict that included recognition of Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina in their current borders. In the 1992 Serbian general election, Panić came in second behind Milošević, receiving 32% of votes cast. In the aftermath, observers at the Helsinki Commission, political experts, and journalists alleged that Milošević and his supporters had manipulated the election results through improper use of state media and vote tampering.\n\nFollowing his term as Prime Minister, Panić stayed involved in the effort to restore peace and democracy in the region. In December 1993, he began correspondence with U.S. President Bill Clinton regarding a proposed peace summit with all heads of state of the former Yugoslavia. In 1994, he met with Clinton and his advisers in California to discuss the proposal further. Following additional discussions over the next two years, in which Panić proposed a Balkans peace conference, the Clinton Administration convened the Conference on Establishing Peace at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio, USA.\n\nThe Conference culminated in the signing of the Dayton Accords on 21 November 1995, which brought an end to the Bosnian War by dividing Bosnia and Herzegovina into two separate entities: The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska. Since the end of the war, Panić has continued to push for democracy in the Yugoslav region by convening political activists and advocating in the media.\n\nIn 1959, Panić launched ICN out of his garage just outside of Los Angeles, CA using $200 in startup capital. His initial business model was built upon synthesizing chemical compounds to sell to California research labs. During the 1960s, ICN marketed a generic version of L-Dopa, a widely used Parkinson's disease antidote. Panić led ICN over the following decades to develop the building blocks for several thousand potential new drugs. As ICN grew, Panić moved his operations from Pasadena, CA to a new research lab in Costa Mesa, CA and renamed the company ICN Pharmaceuticals. In 1967, ICN was officially listed on the New York Stock Exchange.\n\nIn 1972, ICN discovered the ribavirin compound, the earliest recorded broad spectrum antiviral agent. Chemists Joseph T. Witkovski and Ronald K. Robins were integral to the compound’s creation. In 1985, ribavirin was approved under the name Virazole by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), an upper respiratory tract disease that primarily affects children. In 1991, ICN created the SPAG-2 (Small Particle Aerosol Generator) nebulizer to administer an aerosolized form of ribavirin during hospital treatments of specific viral infections.\n\nIn 1985, ICN and the Eastman-Kodak company launched a six-year, $45 million joint venture to research drugs that slow, halt, or reverse the aging process. Between 1986 and 1987, the FDA contended that ICN had exaggerated Virazole’s effectiveness in treating other illnesses including the AIDS virus. ICN settled with the FDA in 1991. In January 1988, ICN acquired 7.3% of Swiss pharmaceutical company Hoffman-La Roche, as part of a reported acquisition strategy to expand ICN’s reach and marketing capabilities.\n\nFollowing the fall of the Berlin Wall, ICN acquired multiple pharmaceutical firms in Eastern Europe. In May 1991, ICN bought 75% of Galenika, Yugoslavia’s largest drug maker at the time. After eight months, the new subsidiary ICN-Galenika was producing revenues of $364 million. In April 1992, ICN Pharmaceuticals and ICN-Galenika partially financed a $100,000 initiative to vaccinate children in the Yugoslav province of Kosovo. In 1995, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) investigated ICN over shareholder concerns related to Mr. Panić’s sale of company stock before a key regulatory decision by the FDA. After a three-year investigation, the SEC dropped its inquiry in 1998 with no charges filed.\n\nIn 1998, the FDA approved Virazole for the treatment of Hepatitis C in conjunction with another medication called interferon. Virazole eventually became a global standard treatment for multiple pediatric and adult medical conditions. Uses include the effective treatment of chronic Hepatitis C in conjunction with interferon, multiple viral fevers including influenza, parainfluenza, adenovirus, measles, Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever and Lassa fever, as well as renal impairment and thyroid cancer.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Panić resolved four sexual harassment suits filed by former employees of ICN. In 2002, ICN settled an SEC civil lawsuit related to misleading statements issued regarding their products. Panić decided to retire as CEO and Chairman of ICN in June 2002 after opposing shareholders took control of ICN’s Board of Directors. Over the course of his career as Chairman, CEO, and President, Panić led ICN to annual sales in 90 countries exceeding $672 million (USD), with over 600 drugs in its portfolio by his final year in 2001.\n\nPanić maintains other business entities and investments both in the U.S. and internationally. In 2003, after Panić’s departure, ICN Pharmaceuticals changed its name to Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc.\n\nAfter retiring from ICN, Panić bought a bioassay subsidiary of ICN Biomedicals and changed its name to MP Biomedicals. MP specializes in research and development of life science and diagnostic products. MP’s global headquarters is located in Santa Ana, California, with its US headquarters and central distribution center located in Solon, Ohio. The company maintains global operations in North America, South America, Asia, Australia, and Europe. On 14 June 2010, Panić and MP acquired ICPBio International LTD., a New Zealand-based protein biologics manufacturing company. On 11 December 2014, the FDA approved MP Diagnostics HTLV Blot 2.4, the first FDA-licensed supplemental test for Human T-cell Lymphotropic Virus-I/II (HTLV-I/II). In October 2015, Panić announced the sale of MP Biomedicals to China-based Valiant Fine Chemicals Co. Ltd., a developer of chemical products.\n\nPanić provides philanthropic support to various universities, research programs, museums, political causes and charities through both his Milan Panić Jr. Foundation and MP Global Enterprises & Associates, LLC. As part of his philanthropic efforts, he has supported the Muscular Dystrophy Association and sponsored scholarships at the MIT-Harvard Medical School Program. Panić has lectured frequently on peacebuilding at George Washington University, University of Southern California, and Chapman University - where he is a member of the President’s cabinet.\n\nPanić has provided support to the Freedoms Foundation in Valley Forge, PA, penning the Bill of Responsibilities and donating a Bill of Responsibilities Monument to their headquarters in 1990. He is a frequent supporter of California cultural institutions including the Los Angeles Opera, where he serves as a Vice Chairman and has sponsored season-opening performances since 2002. He has also provided charitable support to City of Hope Cancer Research and Treatment Center.\n\nPanić was awarded the Ellis Island Medal of Honor by the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation on 27 October 1986. He was named \"European of the Year\" in 1992 by the Wall Street Journal Europe, which cited his efforts while serving Yugoslavian Prime Minister to introduce democratic, free market reforms, bring peace, and galvanize opposition to Slobodan Milošević. In February 2015, the Lifeline Humanitarian Organization of New York awarded Panić with a lifetime achievement award for his philanthropic support of academic, cultural, political, and relief organizations around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "55803356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55803356", "title": "Motor Vehicle Safety Whistleblower Act", "text": "Motor Vehicle Safety Whistleblower Act\n\nThe Motor Vehicle Safety Whistleblower Act was passed by Congress in December 2015 as part of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act to provide an incentive to bring to light safety-related problems. The program allows industry insiders to report on violations of federal vehicle-safety laws and receive 10% to 30% of monetary sanctions over $1 million that the government imposes based on that information.\n\nRepublican Senator John Thune of South Dakota and Democratic Senator Bill Nelson of Florida cosponsored the Motor Vehicle Safety Whistleblower Act in response to several high-profile auto safety scandals. The whistleblower program was designed to protect the public by providing an incentive for insiders working at auto manufacturers, vehicle part suppliers or dealerships to assist the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) by bringing to the Government's attention information about violations of vehicle-safety laws that are likely to cause unreasonable risk of death or serious physical injury. Whistleblowers are eligible for rewards under the Act if the information they bring forward contributes to the Government's success in an enforcement or related legal action. Awards are based on the value of a whistleblower's information and the extent of assistance provided.\n\nThe program works in concert with existing federal law to protect whistleblowers from unlawful employer retaliation. It also allows whistleblowers to keep their identities confidential when reporting violations. A whistleblower does not have to be a U.S. citizen or resident to qualify for an award, and violations he or she reports on don't have to occur in the U.S. so long as some of the vehicles, or parts, at issue are distributed in the U.S. market.\n\nThe program applies broadly to safety-related vehicle and vehicle-equipment defects, including failures to notify the government of such defects. Examples of previous safety-related violations for which a whistleblower could have received an award under the program if he or she brought it to light include: Takata's airbag ruptures, GM's ignition switch defects, Toyota's \"sticky\" pedals that caused unintended acceleration, and the Early Warning Reporting (EWR) failures that affected Fiat, Chrysler, Honda, Ferrari, Triumph, and Forest River.\n"}
{"id": "8369228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8369228", "title": "National Independent Contractors Association", "text": "National Independent Contractors Association\n\nThe National Independent Contractors Association, or NICA, is a United States-based organization that describes itself as an alliance of independent contractors. It was founded in 1995 as a corporation by Thomas McGrath, a former contractor in the transportation industry. According to NICA's website, its purpose is to provide services giving administrative support to independent contractors, but particularly for individuals who work as couriers or messengers (i.e., parcel or mail pickup and delivery, whether doing parcel pickup and delivery by bicycle or by automobile or motorcycle or other motorized vehicle or by serving as a walker).\n\nOn May 6, 2006, Frank Green of the San Diego Union-Tribune reported that \"the San Diego County District Attorney's Office has issued a 50-count indictment against Thomas M. McGrath, founder and president of NICA Inc., and seven other company officials for allegedly filing false insurance claims worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. ... McGrath and the other NICA executives were arrested in Massachusetts on Wednesday.\" A year later, \"Thomas McGrath, Dan Curran and David Kenyon were sentenced to 1 day in jail, 3 years probation, and ordered to pay $350,000 in restitution, and $14,000 investigative costs,\" according to a California Department of Insurance annual report. \"The eight were charged with one count of conspiracy to commit premium fraud, six counts of premium fraud, and 43 counts of filing false injury claims in a scheme that totaled more than $600,000 in losses,\" said the report.\n\n"}
{"id": "3620906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3620906", "title": "Neon Museum", "text": "Neon Museum\n\nThe Neon Museum in Las Vegas, Nevada, United States, features signs from old casinos and other businesses displayed outdoors on 2.62 acres. The museum features a restored lobby shell from the defunct La Concha Motel as its visitor center, which officially opened on October 27, 2012.\n\nFor many years, the Young Electric Sign Company (YESCO) stored many of these old signs in their \"boneyard.\" The signs were slowly being destroyed by exposure to the elements.\n\nThe signs are considered by Las Vegas locals, business owners and government organizations to be not only artistically, but also historically, significant to the culture of the city. Each of the restored signs in the collection holds a story about who created it and why it is important.\n\nThe Neon Museum was founded in 1996 as a partnership between the Allied Arts Council of Southern Nevada and the City of Las Vegas. Today, it is an independent non-profit. Located on Las Vegas Boulevard and Bonanza, the Neon Museum includes the new Neon Boneyard Park, which is adjacent to the former YESCO Boneyard.\n\nThe impetus behind the museum was the loss of the iconic sign from The Sands; after it closed in 1995, there was no place to store the massive sign, and it was scrapped. To mark its official opening in November 1996, the Neon Museum restored and installed the \"Hacienda Horse & Rider\" sign at the intersection of Las Vegas Boulevard and Fremont Street. However, access to the collection was provided by appointment only. Annual attendance was approximately 12–20,000 during this time.\n\nIn 2005, the historic La Concha lobby was donated to the museum, which moved and reassembled the building north along Las Vegas Boulevard after cutting it into eight pieces. It now serves as the museum's visitors' center and headquarters. Although it cost nearly $3 million to move and restore the La Concha, the plans to open a museum became concrete after the donation of the building, drawing a number of public and private grants and donations. In total, approximately $6.5 million was raised for the visitors' center, headquarters, a new park, and restoration of 15 major signs.\n\nIn November 2009, the Neon Museum restored and installed the famous Silver Slipper sign across from its welcome center, and two more restored vintage signs were installed near the northern end of Las Vegas Boulevard to mark its designation as a National Scenic Byway. \n\nPaid public admission commenced on October 27, 2012, replacing the prior appointment-only basis. Attendance during the first year was 60,461, exceeding the early estimate of 45–50,000 visitors.\n\nAfter outgrowing its space in the former La Concha lobby shell, the museum moved its headquarters to old City Hall in 2016 and converted the offices into a museum store. In 2017, the museum purchased land for its first expansion since opening to the public in 2012. For its fifth anniversary, the Neon Museum offered free admission on October 28, 2017. In 2018, the Neon Museum administrative staff moved again to a space on the campus of the Las Vegas-Review Journal and opened a programming space there called Ne10 Studio.\n\nThe Neon Museum is located on Las Vegas Boulevard and Bonanza Road, South of Cashman Center and along the Las Vegas downtown museum corridor. The museum has exhibits in three main areas: restored and installed neon signs in both the Fremont Street area and along the Las Vegas Strip; and in the Neon Boneyard.\n\nThe Neon Museum maintains several restored signs throughout Downtown Las Vegas and along the Las Vegas Strip. The cost of restoring signs is estimated to range from $10,000 for small pieces to $100,000 for the largest signs.\n\nThe Neon Boneyard Park was installed in 2012, with \"NEON\" spelled out using letters shaped like those on signs for the Golden Nugget (\"N\"), Caesars Palace (\"E\"), Binion's Horseshoe (\"O\"), and Desert Inn (\"N\"). The letters are set on a grid inspired by the sign for The Sands, and the sign is decorated with stars like those from the Stardust and a starburst like the Welcome to Fabulous Las Vegas sign designed by Betty Willis.\n\nPieces in the boneyard include signage from the Stardust, Riviera, Desert Inn and Caesars Palace as well as many others. The Neon Museum also houses fiberglass sculptures including a giant skull from the Treasure Island Hotel and Casino among others.\n\nIn 2018, the Neon Museum began \"Brilliant!\", a 30-minute night show designed by Craig Winslow which uses multiple projectors to reanimate defunct signs, set to vintage and contemporary music.\n\n"}
{"id": "12743887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12743887", "title": "Oswald Watt Gold Medal", "text": "Oswald Watt Gold Medal\n\nThe Oswald Watt Gold Medal is an Australian aviation award named for Oswald Watt (1878–1921), a decorated pilot in World War I.\n\nIt originated in 1921 after the death of Oswald Watt and is awarded for \"A most brilliant performance in the air or the most notable contribution to aviation by an Australian or in Australia\" by the Royal Federation of Aero Clubs of Australia. As it is awarded on merit it is not an annual award; between the award's creation and 1999 it had been awarded a total of 48 times. It was not awarded in the years 2000 - 2010.\n\nSource: Royal Federation of Aero Clubs of Australia\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "893056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=893056", "title": "Pete Coors", "text": "Pete Coors\n\nPeter Hanson Coors (born September 20, 1946) is an American businessman and politician. He formerly served as the Chairman of the Molson Coors Brewing Company and Chairman of MillerCoors.\n\nPeter Coors was inducted into the Colorado Business Hall of Fame by Junior Achievement-Rocky Mountain and the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce in 2012.\n\nCoors was born in Golden, Colorado. He is the great-grandson of Adolph Coors, the brewing entrepreneur, and the son of Holly Coors (born Edith Holland Hanson) and Joseph Coors. He graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy and then from Cornell University from which he received a degree in engineering. A member of the Psi Upsilon Fraternity, Coors was elected to the Sphinx Head Society during his final year at Cornell. He also received his MBA from the University of Denver in 1970.\n\nCoors has worked all of his life in various positions at his family's firm, the Coors Brewing Company.\n\nIn 1993, Coors became vice chairman and CEO of the company, and in 2002, he was named Chairman of Coors Brewing Company and Adolph Coors Company. In 2004, according to the \"Rocky Mountain News\", Coors \"made $332,402 in salary and a $296,917 bonus as chairman of Adolph Coors. He also received 125,000 stock options with a potential value of $13 million\". He stepped down temporarily from these positions in 2004 to run for the US Senate. After the 2005 merger with Molson, Coors became a Class A Director in the newly formed Molson Coors Brewing Company. \n\nOn May 7, 2018, Coors wrote an open letter criticizing the hostility toward “Big Beer,” i.e., large brewing companies, at a Craft Brewers Conference sponsored by the Brewers Association. “The leadership of the Brewers Association does a great disservice to the entire beer value chain by attempting to pit one part of the industry against another,” he charged.\n\nIn a May 14, 2018 opinion piece for the \"Wall Street Journal\", Coors urged President Trump, whom he respects, to put an end to the Midwest Premium, a “mysterious fee” added to aluminum orders in the U.S. “It is time to fix this mess and end the premium once and for all,” he wrote. “A private solution would be best — one crafted by producers, buyers, market makers and customers like Molson Coors. Let us forge a new deal on aluminum, to the benefit of a hundred million fans of the most American of beverages. President Trump, are you with us?”\n\nIn October 2006, he was appointed by the University of Colorado Hospital Board of Directors as chairman of the board for the new University of Colorado Hospital Foundation.\n\nHe has served on the boards of U.S. Bancorp, H. J. Heinz Company, HOBY (Hugh O'Brian Youth Leadership) Colorado, and Energy Corp. of America. He is also involved in civic organizations such as the Denver Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America and the National Western Stock Show Association. He is also part of the ownership group of the Colorado Rockies. He is a member of the Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia. In 1997, Coors was granted an Honorary Doctorate from Johnson & Wales University, where he is a trustee. He sits on the Board of Trustees of the American Enterprise Institute.\n\nWhen U.S. Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell declared in 2004 that he was retiring, Coors announced his candidacy. His opponent in the Republican primary election was another conservative, former congressman Bob Schaffer. During their primary, the two candidates engaged in an ideological disagreement, with Schaffer attacking Coors because his company had provided benefits to the partners of its gay and lesbian employees, in addition to promoting its beer in gay bars. Coors defended himself by saying that he was opposed to same-sex marriage, and supported a constitutional amendment to ban it, although he noted that he supported civil unions for gay couples. According to the \"Rocky Mountain News\", Coors described his company's pro-LGBT practices as \"good business, separate from politics.\" He defeated Schaffer with 61% of the vote in the primary, with many analysts citing his high name recognition in the state as a primary factor. \n\nCoors faced Democrat and Colorado Attorney General Ken Salazar in the November 2004 election, but was defeated by a margin of 51% to 47%.\n\nAccording to the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics (CPS), Coors gave his own campaign $1,213,657 and received individual donations of $60,550 from other Coors family members. He was mentioned as a possible contender in the 2008 Senate election.\n\nCoors has been described as “a major donor in Colorado politics.” In 2016, Coors donated $5,000 to Leadership Matters for America, a super PAC supporting the presidential candidacy of Donald Trump, and $5,000 to Right to Rise, which supported Jeb Bush.\n\nCoors is married to Marilyn Coors (born Grosso) and has six children.\n\nOn May 28, 2006, Coors was arrested by the Colorado State Patrol on suspicion of driving under the influence and registering a blood alcohol level higher than the legal limit (0.088). Coors commented on the incident, saying, \"I should have planned ahead for a ride. For years, I've advocated the responsible use of our company's products. That's still my message, and our company's message. I am sorry that I didn't follow it myself.\"\n\nOn August 25, 2006, Coors pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of driving while impaired. A judge sentenced Coors to 24 hours of community service and a suspended fine and ordered him to undergo alcohol education courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "149189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149189", "title": "Peter Carl Fabergé", "text": "Peter Carl Fabergé\n\nPeter Carl Fabergé, also known as Karl Gustavovich Fabergé (, \"Karl Gustavovich Faberzhe\"; 30 May 1846 – 24 September 1920), was a Russian jeweller best known for the famous Fabergé eggs made in the style of genuine Easter eggs, but using precious metals and gemstones rather than more mundane materials. He's the founder of the famous jewelry legacy House of Fabergé.\n\nHe was born in Saint Petersburg, Russia, to the Baltic German jeweller Gustav Fabergé and his Danish wife Charlotte Jungstedt. Gustav Fabergé's paternal ancestors were Huguenots, originally from La Bouteille, Picardy, who fled from France after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, first to Germany near Berlin, then in 1800 to the Pernau (today Pärnu) Baltic province of Livonia, then part of Russia.\n\nUntil he was 14 years old he went to the German St Anne School in Saint Petersburg, Russia. In 1860 his father retired from his jewelry business and moved with his family to Germany. He left the House of Fabergé in Saint Petersburg in the hands of his business partner. Carl Fabergé undertook a course at the Dresden Arts and Crafts School. 1862 Agathon Fabergé, the Fabergés' second son, was born in Dresden, Germany, where he went to school as well.\n\nIn 1864, Peter Carl Fabergé embarked upon a Grand Tour of Europe at . He received tuition from respected goldsmiths in Germany, France and England, attended a course at Schloss's Commercial College in Paris, and viewed the objects in the galleries of Europe's leading museums.\n\nHis travel and study continued until 1872, when at the age of 26 he returned to St. Petersburg and married Augusta Julia Jacobs. 1874 saw the arrival of his first child, Eugene Fabergé and two years later, Agathon Fabergé was born; Alexander Fabergé and Nicholas Fabergé followed in 1877 and 1884 respectively.For the following 10 years, his father's trusted workmaster Hiskias Pendin acted as his mentor and tutor. The company was also involved with cataloguing, repairing, and restoring objects in the Hermitage during the 1870s. In 1881 the business moved to larger street-level premises at 16/18 Bolshaya Morskaya.\n\nUpon the death of Hiskias Pendin in 1882, Carl Fabergé took sole responsibility for running the company. Carl was awarded the title Master Goldsmith, which permitted him to use his own hallmark in addition to that of the firm. in 1885 his brother Agathon Fabergé joined the firm and became Carl Faberge's main assistant in the designing of jewelry. Agathon who had also Dresden.\n\nCarl and Agathon Fabergé Sr. were a sensation at the Pan-Russian Exhibition held in Moscow in 1882. Carl was awarded a gold medal and the St. Stanisias Medal. One of the Fabergé pieces displayed was a replica of a 4th-century BC gold bangle from the Scythian Treasure in the Hermitage. The Tsar, Alexander III, \"Emperor and Autocrat of all the Russians\", declared that he could not distinguish the Fabergé's work from the original and ordered that objects by the House of Fabergé should be displayed in the Hermitage as examples of superb contemporary Russian craftsmanship. The House of Fabergé with its range of jewels was now within the focus of Russia's Imperial Court.\n\nWhen Peter Carl took over the House, there was a move from producing jewellery in the then-fashionable French 18th century style to becoming artist-jewellers. \nFabergé's production of the very first so-called Fabergé egg, the Hen Egg, given as a gift from the Tsar to his wife Maria Fyodorovna on Orthodox Easter (24 March) of 1885 so delighted her that on 1 May the Emperor assigned Fabergé the title \"Goldsmith by special appointment to the Imperial Crown\" of that year. This meant that Fabergé now had full personal access to the important Hermitage Collection, where he was able to study and find inspiration for developing his unique personal style. Influenced by the jewelled bouquets created by the eighteenth century goldsmiths Jean-Jacques Duval and Jérémie Pauzié, Fabergé re-worked their ideas combining them with his accurate observations and his fascination for Japanese art. This resulted in a revival of the lost art of enameling and a focus on the setting of every single gemstone in a piece to its best visual advantage. Indeed, it was not unusual for Agathon to make ten or more wax models so that all possibilities could be exhausted before deciding on a final design. Shortly after Agathon joined the firm, the House introduced \"objects deluxe\": gold bejewelled items embellished with enamel ranging from electric bell pushes to cigarette cases and including \"objects de fantaisie\".\n\nIn light of the Empress' response to receiving one of Fabergé's eggs on Easter, the Tsar soon commissioned the company to make an Easter egg as a gift for her every year thereafter. The Tsar placed an order for another egg the following year. Beginning in 1887, the Tsar apparently gave Carl Fabergé complete freedom with regard to egg designs, which then became more and more elaborate. According to Fabergé Family tradition, not even the Tsar knew what form they would take— the only stipulation was that each one should be unique and each should contain a surprise. Upon the death of Alexander III, his son, the next Tsar, Nicholas II, followed this tradition and expanded it by requesting that there be two eggs each year, one for his mother (who was eventually given a total of 30 such eggs) and one for his wife, Alexandra (who received another 20). These Easter gift eggs are today distinguished from the other jeweled eggs Fabergé ended up producing by their designation as \"Imperial Easter eggs\" or \"Tsar Imperial Easter eggs\". The tradition continued until the October Revolution when the entire Romanov dynasty was executed and the eggs and many other treasures were confiscated by the interim government. The two final eggs were never delivered nor paid for.\n\nAlthough today the House of Fabergé is famed for its Imperial Easter eggs, it made many more objects ranging from silver tableware to fine jewelry which were also of exceptional quality and beauty, and until its departure from Russia during the revolution, Fabergé's company became the largest jewelry business in the country. In addition to its Saint Petersburg headquarters, it had branches in Moscow, Odessa, Kiev and London. It produced some 150,000 to 200,000 objects from 1882 until 1917.\n\nIn 1900, Fabergé's work represented Russia at the 1900 World's Fair in Paris. As Carl Fabergé was a member of the jury, the House of Fabergé exhibited \"hors concours\" (without competing). Nevertheless, the House was awarded a gold medal and the city's jewelers recognized Carl Fabergé as a maître. Additionally, France recognized Carl Fabergé with one of the most prestigious of French awards, appointing him a knight of the Legion of Honour. Two of Carl's sons and his head workmaster were also honored. Commercially, the exposition was a great success and the firm acquired a great many orders and clients.\n\nIn 1916, the House of Fabergé became a joint-stock company with a capital of 3-million rubles.\n\nThe following year upon the outbreak of the October Revolution, the business was taken over by a 'Committee of the Employees of the Company K Fabergé. In 1918 The House of Fabergé was nationalised by the Bolsheviks. In early October the stock was confiscated. The House of Fabergé was no more. \n\nAfter the nationalisation of the business, Carl Fabergé left St. Petersburg on the last diplomatic train for Riga. In mid-November, the Revolution having reached Latvia, he fled to Germany and first settled in Bad Homburg and then in Wiesbaden. Eugène, the Fabergés' eldest, travelled with his mother in darkness by sleigh and on foot through snow-covered woods and reached Finland in December 1918. During June 1920, Eugène reached Wiesbaden and accompanied his father to Switzerland where other members of the family had taken refuge at the Bellevue Hotel in Pully, near Lausanne.\n\nPeter Carl Fabergé never recovered from the shock of the Russian Revolution. He died in Switzerland on September 24, 1920. His family believed he died of a broken heart. His wife, Augusta, died in 1925. The two were reunited in 1929 when Eugène Fabergé took his father's ashes from Lausanne and buried them in his mother's grave at the Cimetière du Grand Jas in Cannes, France.\n\nFabergé had four sons: Eugène (1874–1960), Agathon (1876–1951), Alexander (1877–1952) and Nicholas (1884–1939). Descendants of Peter Carl Fabergé live in mainland Europe, Scandinavia and South America.\n\nHenry Bainbridge, a manager of the London branch of the House of Fabergé, recorded recollections of his meetings with his employer in both his autobiography and the book he wrote about Fabergé. We are also given an insight into the man from the recollections of François Birbaum, Fabergé's senior master craftsman from 1893 until the House's demise.\n\nFrom Bainbridge we know that while punctilious with his dress, Fabergé \"rarely if ever wore black but favoured well-cut tweeds\". He added \"There was an air of the country gentleman about him, at times he reminded one of an immaculate gamekeeper with large pockets.\" He was a very focused individual with no wasted actions or speech. He did not like small talk. On one occasion during dinner Bainbridge, feeling out of the conversation said, \"I see Lord Swaythingly is dead\". Fabergé asked who he was and upon being told responded cuttingly, \"And what can I do with a dead banker?\"\n\nWhen taking orders from customers he was always in a hurry and would soon forget the fine detail. He would then interrogate the staff so as to find any who had been standing near him and may have overheard. His great-granddaughter Tatiana Fabergé notes that he usually had a knotted handkerchief in his breast pocket.\n\nWhen Carl noticed an unsuccessfully wrought item, he would call for his senior master craftsman and make endless derisory and ironic remarks. On occasions when Birbaum realized Fabergé was the designer, he would show him his sketch. Fabergé would then smile guiltily and say, \"Since there is nobody to scold me, I have had to do it myself\".\n\nFrom Birbaum we also know that Carl was famous for his wit and was quite merciless to fops, whom he hated. A certain prince who fell into this category boasted to Fabergé about his latest honour from the Tsar, adding that he had no idea as to why the award was made. The prince expected the jeweler to shower him with congratulations. Instead, Fabergé simply replied, \"Indeed, your Highness, I too have no idea what for\".\n\nCarl never traveled with luggage—he bought all his requisites at his destination. On one occasion, when he arrived at the Negresco Hotel in Nice the doorman barred him from entering because of the amount of luggage he carried. Thankfully one of the grand dukes who was in residence called out a greeting and Carl Fabergé was promptly ushered apologetically into the establishment.\n\nBainbridge concludes, \"Taking him all in all, Fabergé came as near to a complete understanding of human nature as it is possible for a man to come, with one word only inscribed on his banner, and that word – tolerance. There is no doubt whatsoever that this consideration for the worth of others was the foundation for his success.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "223144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223144", "title": "Peter Kosler", "text": "Peter Kosler\n\nPeter Kosler or Kozler (16 February 1824 – 16 April 1879) was a Carniolan lawyer, geographer, cartographer, activist, and manufacturer. He was of ethnic German origin, but also identified with Slovene culture and advocated the peaceful coexistence of the Slovene and German cultures in Carniola.\n\nKosler was born in Koče, a village south of Kočevje in Gottschee County, in what was then the Austrian Kingdom of Illyria, and is now Slovenia. He is best known for creating the first map of the Slovene Lands, called \"Zemljovid Slovenske dežele in pokrajin\" (Map of Slovene Lands and Provinces). Made already from 1848 until the end of 1852, it was published only in 1861. Despite this, it had a significant impact in the time of the Slovene national awakening.\n\nBorn in a relatively well-to-do family, Kosler made a fortune with beer manufacturing and was the founder of the Union Brewery. He gave large amounts of money to support Slovenian cultural associations and institutions. He was close to the conservative Old Slovene political movement.\n\nKosler bought Cekin Mansion just outside the center of Ljubljana and renovated it in a neoclassical style. Today, the mansion houses the National Museum of Contemporary History. The Koslers also owned a mansion () in the center of Ljubljana, close to Congress Square () and Čop Street (), which was regarded as one of the finest Baroque buildings in the city. The building was slated for demolition in 1956 and torn down by the Communist authorities in 1961 in order to widen the nearby street, which caused a public outcry and marked a milestone in the development of postwar urban development in Ljubljana. According to an interview with art historian Damjan Prelovšek in October 2006, trees now grow at the site of the former building, demonstrating that its demolition was a political decision and unnecessary in order to widen the street. \n\nKosler also owned a plot of land in the Ljubljana Marshes known as Kosler's Thicket (). During World War II, the plot was used as a mass grave for victims of the Slovenian Home Guard torturer and killer Franc Frakelj.\n\nKosler died in Ljubljana and is buried at Žale cemetery in Ljubljana.\n\nIn 1999, a Slovenian postal stamp was dedicated to Kosler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20274682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20274682", "title": "Project management simulation", "text": "Project management simulation\n\nProject management simulation is simulation used for project management training and analysis. \nProject management simulation is often used as training simulation for project managers. In other cases it is used for what-if analysis and for supporting decision-making in real projects.\nFrequently the simulation is conducted using software tools.\n\nProject management simulation for training is an interactive learning activity, frequently practiced as a group exercise. The purpose of the simulation is to impart to students the competencies (i.e. knowledge, skills, and attitudes) that will ultimately improve their performance.\nIt confronts trainees with the situations and problems that arise in real world projects. Trainees see the consequences of the decisions they make. They can track the evolution of the project parameters: scope, costs, schedule, and quality, as well as human factors. The simulation provides an opportunity for learners to solve typical project problems, to make mistakes and analyze them. \nPedagogic goals of project management simulation can be to teach how to:\nDifferent studies suggest that using simulation-based training for training project managers is superior to other methods.\n\nProject management simulation is used to analyze real projects. The goal of the simulation is to show the user the different possible outcomes of his decisions, along with the probability that each outcome will occur. The simulation helps in reducing the project risk and in choosing the best project plan. \nIn a typical simulation the project is first modeled into a software tool along with uncertain variables. A simulation is then run to check the different possible outcomes and their probability as a result of different inputs for the uncertain variables.\n\n"}
{"id": "37731431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37731431", "title": "Reginald Conyers", "text": "Reginald Conyers\n\nSir James Reginald Conyers CBE (3 September 1879 – 26 July 1948), known as Reggie Conyers during his early life, was a Bermudian lawyer, politician, and cricketer. Born in Pembroke Parish, Bermuda, Conyers was a keen member of the Hamilton Cricket Club, and toured the United States with the club in 1905. Having regularly played for Bermuda against touring American teams, he was invited to play for the Gentlemen of Philadelphia during the team's 1908–09 tour of Jamaica. In the final match of the tour, against Jamaica at Melbourne Park, Conyers scored 149 runs opening Philadelphia's batting, his highest first-class score and only first-class century. He would later make several appearances for Philadelphia's Merion Cricket Club in the Halifax Cup competition in 1909 and 1911. Conyers remained heavily involved in Bermudian cricket after the tour's end, often captaining the Bermudan national team against touring sides from North America. He was playing competitive cricket until as late as 1928, when he captained Bermuda on a tour of the United States aged 49.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the First World War, Conyers established a law firm based in Hamilton, and in 1928 merged his firm with that of Nicholas Dill and James Pearman, forming the law firm of Conyers Dill & Pearman. Conyers was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1936, and a knight bachelor in 1944, for \"services to Bermuda\". He served in the House of Assembly from the 1930s, and served for a period of time as Speaker. Conyers also chaired a committee attempting to implement conscription during the Second World War. He died in Boston, Massachusetts, in July 1948.\n"}
{"id": "439903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=439903", "title": "Rufus Choate", "text": "Rufus Choate\n\nRufus Choate (October 1, 1799July 13, 1859) was an American lawyer, orator, and Congressman.\n\nRufus Choate was born in Ipswich, Massachusetts, the son of Miriam (Foster) and David Choate, a teacher and Revolutionary War veteran. He was a descendant of an English family which settled in Massachusetts in 1643. His first cousin, physician George Choate, was the father of George C. S. Choate and Joseph Hodges Choate. Rufus Choate's birthplace, Choate House, remains virtually unchanged to this day.\n\nA precocious child, at six he is said to have been able to repeat large parts of the Bible and of \"Pilgrim's Progress\" from memory. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and graduated as valedictorian of his class at Dartmouth College in 1819, was a tutor there in 1819–1820, and spent a year in the law school of Harvard University, receiving the LL.D. degree in 1845. Choate studied for a like period in Washington, D.C., in the office of William Wirt, then Attorney General of the United States.\n\nHe was admitted to the Massachusetts bar in 1823 and practiced at what was later South Danvers (now Peabody) for five years, during which time he served in the Massachusetts House of Representatives (1825–1826) and in the Massachusetts Senate (1827).\n\nIn 1828, he moved to Salem, where his successful conduct of several important lawsuits brought him prominently into public notice. In 1830 he was elected to Congress as a Whig from Salem, defeating the Jacksonian candidate for re-election, Benjamin Crowninshield, a former United States Secretary of the Navy, and in 1832 he was re-elected. His career in Congress was marked by a speech in defence of a protective tariff.\n\nIn 1834, before the completion of his second term, he resigned and established himself in the practice of law in Boston. Already his reputation as a speaker had spread beyond New England, and he was much sought after as an orator for public occasions. For several years, he devoted himself unremittingly to his profession but, in 1841, succeeded fellow Dartmouth graduate Daniel Webster in the United States Senate. Shortly afterwards he delivered an address at the memorial services for President William Henry Harrison at Faneuil Hall.\n\nIn the Senate, he spoke on the tariff, the Oregon boundary, in favor of the Fiscal Bank Act, and in opposition to the annexation of Texas. On Webster's re-election to the Senate in 1845, Choate resumed his law practice. He later served a short term as attorney-general of Massachusetts in 1853–1854. In 1846, Choate convinced a jury that the accused, Albert Tirrell, did not cut the throat of his lover, or, if he did so, he did it while sleepwalking, under the 'insanity of sleep'. His successful use of sleepwalking as a defense against murder charges was the first time in American legal history this defense was successful in a murder prosecution. He was a faithful supporter of Webster's policy as declared in the latter's Seventh of March Speech of 1850 and labored to secure for him the presidential nomination at the Whig national convention in 1852. In 1853, he was a member of the state constitutional convention.\n\nIn 1856, he refused to follow most of his former Whig associates into the Republican Party and gave his support to Democrat James Buchanan, whom he considered the representative of a national instead of a sectional party.\n\nFailing health led him to seek rest in a trip to Europe, but he died on July 13, 1859, at Halifax, Nova Scotia, where he had been put ashore when it was seen that he probably could not last the voyage across the Atlantic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1054997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1054997", "title": "Seán Quinn", "text": "Seán Quinn\n\nJohn Ignatius Quinn, commonly known as Seán Quinn, is an Irish businessman and conglomerateur. In 2008 he was the richest person in the Republic of Ireland, but in 2011 he filed for bankruptcy.\n\nThe \"Sunday Times Rich List\" in 2008 estimated his personal worth to be €4.722 billion or\n£3.73 billion, thereby making him the richest person in Ireland. \"Forbes\" magazine's 2008 Rich List listed him again as the richest person in Ireland, in 164th place amongst the wealthiest individuals in the world. His net worth, as of February 2008, was estimated at $6.0 billion, approximately £3.084 billion.\n\nIn November 2005 the Quinn Group, which was then privately owned by the Quinn family, was elsewhere estimated to be worth between €4 billion and €5 billion. In 2007 the group made a pre-tax profit of £439m. In April 2011 Kieran Wallace of KPMG was appointed as share receiver to Anglo Irish Bank (to which the Quinn Group owe over €2.8 billion) and took control of the Quinn family’s equity interest in Quinn Group. Sean Quinn and the Quinn family no longer have any role in the management, operations or ownership of the Quinn Group. Quinn was declared bankrupt on 11 November 2011 in Northern Ireland; this was annulled on appeal but he was declared bankrupt in the Republic of Ireland on 16 January 2012. Quinn was sentenced at the High Court in Dublin on 2 November 2012 to nine weeks in jail, due to continued asset stripping and non-co-operation with the Irish Bank Resolution Corporation (IBRC).\n\nQuinn is married to Patricia and they have five children - Seán, Colette, Ciara, Aoife and Brenda.\n\nIn an interview with Ireland's \"Sunday Business Post\", Seán Quinn attributed his initial success to the contacts he developed through the Gaelic Athletic Association. These contacts enabled him to build a company spanning both sides of the Irish border when, in 1973, he borrowed £100 and started extracting gravel from his family farm, washing it and selling it to local builders. The company was called Seán Quinn Quarries Ltd. From this came Quinn Cement, the basis of his wealth. In recent years Quinn diversified with his Quinn Group playing a leading role in Ireland's hospitality industry, setting up Quinn Hotels. The centrepiece hotel was the Slieve Russell Hotel in Ballyconnell, County Cavan. He maintains interests in Ireland's glass, radiator and plastics industries with Quinn Glass, based in Fermanagh, and Quinn Lite Pac, based in County Longford. As of 2009, the Quinn Group employed more than 5,500 people throughout Ireland.\n\nQuinn Financial Services, founded in 1996, includes the Quinn Direct insurance business. With its headquarters in Cavan, it made €123 million profit in the first six months of 2006 (up 38% on the previous year), on sales of €386 million between January and June 2006.\n\nIn January 2007 the Quinn Group purchased Ireland's second biggest health insurance provider, Bupa Ireland for €150 million in a deal that saved BUPA from leaving Ireland's health insurance industry. In the same month Quinn increased his share holding in the Anglo Irish Bank to approximately 5%, for an equivalent value of €570 million - financed through the group's equity and through a deal with the Swiss-based giant Credit Suisse.\n\nThroughout 2007 peaking in July 2008 Quinn increased his family's stake to 15% in Anglo Irish Bank. The bank along with all financial institutions in Ireland saw its share price collapse in the latter half of 2008, and on 15 January 2009 the Irish government announced it had taken control of the bank. Shares were trading for as little as 20c (from a high of €10.15c) before the takeover.\n\n\"Forbes\" Rich List had estimated that the Quinn family's net worth took a major hit in 2008-09, with Denis O'Brien replacing Quinn as Ireland's wealthiest person.\n\nA large part of the subsequent loss can be linked to the well-publicised near collapse of the Anglo Irish Bank, which wiped out at least €2.8 billion of the family's wealth. Between October 2005 and July 2007 Sean Quinn built up a 28% stake in the bank, mainly through contracts for difference, a financial instrument used to gamble on the bank share price. Quinn admitted at the time in an RTÉ Prime Time interview that it had \"set the company back 2 to 3 years\".\n\nIn 2008 the shares or contracts for difference bought in Anglo Irish Bank dropped in value and the bank had to find a buyer for Quinn's shares. A group of clients known as the \"Golden Circle\" bought the shares, and, controversially (and illegally), the bank lent them €451 million to buy them. The €451 million was never repaid as the Anglo Irish Bank hidden loans controversy emerged, following which the bank was nationalised in 2009.\n\nIn 2008, Quinn Insurance was levied a record €3.25 million fine from the Financial Regulator in the Republic of Ireland with Seán Quinn personally being fined €200,000. These fines were related to loans issued from Quinn Insurance to an associated company that he controlled. \"These loans breached insurance regulations and as a result of this the Financial Regulator has sanctioned Quinn Insurance and myself. I accept complete responsibility for this breach of regulation.\" The fines arose from a failure to notify the regulator of a loan of €288 million from Quinn Insurance to other firms in his group. The cash was used by the Quinn family to cover falling stock market investments and finance share-buying in Anglo Irish Bank. On the back of the fines, Quinn stepped down from the board of Quinn Insurance and a number of other Quinn Group boards announcing plans to restructure the boards to reflect those of a public company. In March 2010 The High Court in Dublin ruled that Quinn Insurance should be placed into administration.\n\nQuinn Insurance had made losses of €905m in 2009, and €160m in 2010, and the Irish Government passed the Insurance (Amendment ) Bill 2011 which imposed a 2% levy on all other Insurance policies to meet an estimated €280m shortfall to the state's Insurance Compensation Fund. Because part of the losses were caused by Quinn Insurance loans to fund speculative investments for other Quinn family companies, Clare Daly commented that - \"A large percentage of insurance losses result from speculative gambling on the property market by the family and, in effect, the legislation provides for the transfer of those gambling debts on to the shoulders of hard pressed taxpayers and working people who need to insure cars, homes and so on.\" The cost to Irish policyholders will come to €65m annually over five years.\n\nWith Anglo Irish Bank's financial difficulties Quinn was pursued in 2010 for his loans from it, then about €2.8 billion secured on property worth much less. In April 2011 the loans were formally called, and an ongoing series of court cases are underway in several jurisdictions. In particular, his overseas holding company, Quinn Investments Sweden, was wound up in July 2011.\n\nIn July 2011 Anglo Irish Bank was renamed as the Irish Bank Resolution Corporation (IBRC).\n\nIt was found in late 2011 that some of the Swedish company's assets had been transferred to family-controlled companies in Cyprus, leading to a fresh round of litigation there. It was alleged by the liquidator that property owned in Russia worth $193m had been sold to a cousin, Peter Quinn, for $1,000 and a laptop computer. The Quinn family described the allegations as \"baseless and hardly deserving of comment”. Other property in Kiev, Ukraine, that was 93% controlled from Sweden was the subject of further proceedings in December 2011.\n\nSeparately, Quinn's wife and children have started legal proceedings in Dublin in 2011 alleging that the €2.34 billion that he borrowed from Anglo-Irish Bank to buy the bank should not be repayable because the money was lent for the unlawful purpose of supporting the bank's share price. He has been joined as a third party in the case.\n\nThe Quinn Group liquidator's staff have said that since its liquidation in April 2011 an unusual amount of damage has been caused to the Quinn Group's property, and an executive's car was burnt out at his home.\n\nOn 11 November 2011, Quinn said that he had applied for voluntary bankruptcy in Belfast, and issued a statement asking the media to consider his views as well as the bank's. The case was filed under his legal name of John Ignatius Quinn, using an address in Northern Ireland, and he admitted debts of €194m. Within days the IBRC said it would challenge the Belfast application in the commercial court in Dublin, alleging that Quinn had only used a Republic of Ireland address in directors' filings for 95 companies and none in Northern Ireland (at the time, personal bankruptcies lasted for 12 years in the Republic, but only for 1 year in Northern Ireland).\n\nHowever a check of the electoral register for County Cavan clearly showed Sean Quinn registered as a resident of the Irish Republic having a vote in all elections, obviously contradicting the evidence given to the Belfast Court that he was only resident in County Fermanagh.\nOn 10 January 2012 the High Court in Belfast annulled the Bankruptcy Order against Quinn and later that day the High Court in Dublin agreed to expedite the hearing of a petition to render him bankrupt in the Republic of Ireland. He was declared bankrupt in the Republic of Ireland on 16 January 2012.\n\nIn July 2012, Seán Quinn, his son Seán Jr and Peter Darragh Quinn were served with around 30 coercive court orders intended to reverse asset-stripping measures, after courts had earlier found that all three acted in contempt of orders restraining asset-stripping. Seán Quinn was not jailed as the judge agreed to a request by IBRC that he remain free to secure compliance with the coercive orders. However, representatives of IBRC have complained that Seán Quinn Sr. has \"done nothing to purge his contempt and reverse the asset stripping since the July 20th coercive orders were made\". The bank was concerned that asset-stripping was still going on and that assets could be \"irretrievably lost\". Seán Quinn was sentenced by Ms Justice Elizabeth Dunne at the High Court in Dublin on 2 November 2012 to 9 weeks in jail, noting that \"In my view he has only himself to blame.\"\n\nQuinn was released from Mountjoy Prison on 3 January 2013, although he had been allowed to attend the Christening of his granddaughter in December. On 24 January, a two-day cross-examination began in court of all five adult children of Quinn, as well as of Karen Woods, wife of Seán Jr., and of Niall McPartland, husband of Ciara. The cross-examination was conducted by lawyers for IBRC and the goal was to establish whether the members of the Quinn family have complied with court orders to provide full details of their bank accounts and other assets. As it turned out, substantial sums of money had been paid by Russian subsidiaries of Quinn's real estate business to his children and other family members in 2011/12. For example, Colette Quinn received €340,000 after having allegedly signed a contract \"without understanding it as it was in Russian\" and having \"had no documents indicating what work she was expected to do\". She also admitted to being a director of \"about eight Cypriot companies\". Most of the money has allegedly since been spent, but no receipts were available to support that claim.\n\nSince the government liquidated IBRC in February 2013, the Quinn family has been thinking about a legal challenge to the constitutionality of the IBRC act. This act put an immediate stay on all existing legal proceedings against IBRC, including one brought by the Quinn family which claims that they are not liable for a €2.34bn loan made to Quinn by Anglo Irish. A court hearing on the validity of the stay has been set for 7 March.\n\nThe Quinn Group had expanded into the hospitality industry overseas, with hotels in the Czech Republic, United Kingdom, Bulgaria and Poland. The Quinn Group took control of the Prague Hilton, the largest five-star hotel in Prague, in 2004. It paid €145 million for the 788-room Hilton and the Ibis Karlin. The group also acquired the Hilton Hotel in Sofia, Bulgaria.\n\nOn 7 March 2007, Seán Quinn spoke publicly for the first time in 10 years at a conference at the Slieve Russell hotel organised by the Cavan County Enterprise Board, at which he outlined the strategic aims of the Quinn Group in the immediate future. As of April 2011 Sean Quinn and the Quinn family no longer have any role in the management, operations or ownership of the Quinn Group.\n\nThe currently ongoing litigation about asset-stripping involves former properties of Quinn's in Ukraine and Russia. In Kiev, the IBRC has been trying to establish control over the Univermag \"Ukraina\" mall - so far unsuccessfully. In fact, IBRC has hired Russian Alfa Group's asset recovery arm to enforce its claims. In Russia, IBRC is still struggling to establish its control over the Kutuzoff (or Kutuzov) Tower.\n\nQuinn was born in Derrylin, County Fermanagh, near the border with County Cavan, where he and his brother Peter played Gaelic football for Teemore. Peter became a financial advisor and in 1990 he was elected President of the Gaelic Athletic Association, Ireland's largest sporting and cultural organisation, in which role he served between 1991–1994. The brothers have a very close relationship with Peter playing a key role in the Quinn Group. Sean Quinn also grew up knowing local business man and property tycoon Terence McGuckin, Co, Tyrone, (est 3.75mGBP 2012). Seán Quinn himself captained the Fermanagh team. The Quinn Group is also an important sponsor of Fermanagh GAA. Quinn's involvement in the Gaelic Athletic Association is, in the words of one commentator, \"a constant theme throughout the group\". In the words of one associate, \"The GAA forms a big part of Seán's life. Aside from that, he drinks the occasional jar in pubs in Ballyconnell and enjoys the odd game of poker.\"\nSean also donated land to Kildallan GFC which was used in the development of a training field.\n\nOn 18 May 1999 Seán Quinn was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Laws from NUI Maynooth. He also holds an Honorary Doctorate from Queens University Belfast (QUB).\n\nHis private life is closely guarded and he rarely grants interviews. His five children - Seán, Colette, Ciara, Aoife and Brenda\n- all work in the family business. His son, Seán Jr., lined out for the Fermanagh minor team. Collette Quinn was also director of BOUVERIE NO.1 LIMITED Ultimate Holding Company QUINN PROPERTY INVESTMENTS LIMITED, Shareholder funds -£87,531,000 - now in liquidation [creditsafe.uk]\n\nIn 2012, he was jailed for three months for contempt of court, having allegedly engaged in asset stripping, e.g. by arranging a payment of US$500,000 to the general director of Quinn Properties Ukraine, just before losing control of the company. \nSeán Sr. lives with his wife and family in Ballyconnell, Tullyhaw, County Cavan, next to his landmark Slieve Russell Hotel and just down the road from his birthplace in Derrylin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2979423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2979423", "title": "Strike pay", "text": "Strike pay\n\nStrike pay is payments made by a trade union to workers who are on strike as help in meeting their basic needs while on strike, often out of a special reserve known as a \"strike fund\". Union workers reason that the availability of strike pay increases their leverage at the bargaining table and actually decreases the probability of a strike, since the employers are aware that their employees have this financial resource available to them if they choose to strike.\n\nWhilst some trade unions make payments to members who are on an official strike there is no requirement to do so. The UK government makes the presumption that workers on official strike action are being paid strike pay, and so they may not be entitled to state benefits.\n\nA strike fund is a reserve set up by a union ahead of time (through special assessments or from general funds) and used to provide strike pay or for other strike-related activities.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "496983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=496983", "title": "Territorial waters", "text": "Territorial waters\n\nThe term \"territorial waters\" is sometimes used informally to refer to any area of water over which a state has jurisdiction, including internal waters, the territorial sea, the contiguous zone, the exclusive economic zone and potentially the continental shelf.\n\nNormally, the baseline from which the territorial sea is measured is the low-water line along the coast as marked on large-scale charts officially recognized by the coastal state. This is either the low-water mark closest to the shore, or alternatively it may be an unlimited distance from permanently exposed land, provided that some portion of elevations exposed at low tide but covered at high tide (like mud flats) is within of permanently exposed land. Straight baselines can alternatively be defined connecting fringing islands along a coast, across the mouths of rivers, or with certain restrictions across the mouths of bays. In this case, a bay is defined as \"a well-marked indentation whose penetration is in such proportion to the width of its mouth as to contain land-locked waters and constitute more than a mere curvature of the coast. An indentation shall not, however, be regarded as a bay unless its area is as large as, or larger than, that of the semi-circle whose diameter is a line drawn across the mouth of that indentation\". The baseline across the bay must also be no more than in length.\n\nWaters landward of the baseline are defined as internal waters, over which the state has complete sovereignty: not even innocent passage is allowed without explicit permission from said state. Lakes and rivers are considered internal waters. All \"archipelagic waters\" within the outermost islands of an archipelagic state such as Indonesia or the Philippines are also considered internal waters, and are treated the same with the exception that innocent passage through them must be allowed. However, archipelagic states may designate certain sea lanes through these waters.\n\nTerritorial sea, as defined by the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, is a belt of coastal waters extending at most from the baseline (usually the mean low-water mark) of a coastal state. The territorial sea is regarded as the sovereign territory of the state, although foreign ships (military and civilian) are allowed innocent passage through it, or transit passage for straits; this sovereignty also extends to the airspace over and seabed below. Adjustment of these boundaries is called, in international law, maritime delimitation.\n\nA state's territorial sea extends up to from its baseline. If this would overlap with another state's territorial sea, the border is taken as the median point between the states' baselines, unless the states in question agree otherwise. A state can also choose to claim a smaller territorial sea.\n\nConflicts have occurred whenever a coastal nation claims an entire gulf as its territorial waters while other nations only recognize the more restrictive definitions of the UN convention. Claims which draw baseline in excess of 24 nautical miles (two 12 nm limits) are judged excessive by the U.S. Two conflicts occurred in the Gulf of Sidra where Libya drew a line in excess of 230 nm and claimed the entire enclosed gulf as its territorial waters. The U.S. exercised freedom of navigation rights twice, in the 1981 and 1989 Gulf of Sidra incidents.\n\nIn the U.S. federal system, individual states exercise ownership (subject to federal law) up to 3 nautical miles (9 nautical miles for Texas and Florida) from shore, while the federal government exercises sole territorial jurisdiction further out (see Tidelands).\n\nThe contiguous zone is a band of water extending farther from the outer edge of the territorial sea to up to from the baseline, within which a state can exert limited control for the purpose of preventing or punishing \"infringement of its customs, fiscal, immigration or sanitary laws and regulations within its territory or territorial sea\". This will typically be wide, but could be more (if a state has chosen to claim a territorial sea of less than 12 nautical miles), or less, if it would otherwise overlap another state's contiguous zone. However, unlike the territorial sea, there is no standard rule for resolving such conflicts and the states in question must negotiate their own compromise. The United States invoked a contiguous zone out to 24 nmi from the baseline on 29 September 1999.\n\nAn exclusive economic zone extends from the baseline to a maximum of , thus it includes the contiguous zone. A coastal nation has control of all economic resources within its exclusive economic zone, including fishing, mining, oil exploration, and any pollution of those resources. However, it cannot prohibit passage or loitering above, on, or under the surface of the sea that is in compliance with the laws and regulations adopted by the coastal State in accordance with the provisions of the UN Convention, within that portion of its exclusive economic zone beyond its territorial sea. Before the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, coastal nations arbitrarily extended their territorial waters in an effort to control activities which are now regulated by the exclusive economic zone, such as offshore oil exploration or fishing rights (see Cod Wars). Indeed, the exclusive economic zone is still popularly, though erroneously, called a coastal nation's territorial waters.\n\nArticle 76 gives the legal definition of continental shelf of coastal countries. For the physical geography definition, see the continental shelf \n\nThe continental shelf of a coastal nation extends out to the outer edge of the continental margin but at least from the baselines of the territorial sea if the continental margin does not stretch that far. Coastal states have the right of exploration and exploitation of the seabed and the natural resources that lie on or beneath it, however other states may lay cables and pipelines if they are authorised by the coastal state. The outer limit of a country's continental shelf shall not stretch beyond of the baseline, or beyond from the isobath, which is a line connecting the depths of the seabed at 2,500 meters.\n\nThe outer edge of the continental margin for the purposes of this article is defined as:\nThe foot of the continental slope is determined as the point of maximum change in the gradient at its base.\n\nThe portion of the continental shelf beyond the 200 nautical mile limit is also known as the extended continental shelf. Countries wishing to delimit their outer continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles have to submit scientific information for the basis of their claim to the UN Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. The Commission then validates or makes recommendations on the scientific basis for the extended continental shelf claim. The scientific judgement of the Commission shall be final and binding. If validated extended continental shelf claims overlap any demarcation between two or more parties are decided by bilateral or multilateral negotiation, not by the Commission.\n\nCountries have ten years after ratifying UNCLOS to lodge their submissions to extend their continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles, or by 13 May 2009 for countries where the convention was ratified before 13 May 1999. As of 1 June 2009, 51 submissions have been lodged with the Commission, of which eight have been deliberated by the Commission and have had recommendations issued. The eight are (in the order of date of submission): Russian Federation; Brazil; Australia; Ireland; New Zealand; the joint submission by France, Ireland, Spain and the United Kingdom; Norway and Mexico.\n\nFor full list, see below\n\nArticles 77 to 81 define the rights of a country over its continental shelf.\n\nA coastal nation has control of all resources on or under its continental shelf, living or not, but no control over any living organisms above the shelf that are beyond its exclusive economic zone. This gives it the right to conduct hydrocarbon exploration and drilling works.\n\nFrom the eighteenth century until the mid twentieth century, the territorial waters of the British Empire, the United States, France and many other nations were three nautical miles (5.6 km) wide. Originally, this was the length of a cannon shot, hence the portion of an ocean that a sovereign state could defend from shore. However, Iceland claimed two nautical miles (3.7 km), Norway and Sweden claimed four nautical miles (7.4 km), and Spain claimed during this period. During incidents such as nuclear weapons testing and fisheries disputes some nations arbitrarily extended their maritime claims to as much as fifty or even two hundred nautical miles. Since the late 20th century the \"12 mile limit\" has become almost universally accepted. The United Kingdom extended its territorial waters from three to twelve nautical miles (22 km) in 1987.\n\nDuring the League of Nations Codification Conference in 1930, the issue of establishing international legislation on territorial waters was raised, but no agreement was reached.\n\nClaims by legislation to the adjacent continental shelf and fishing was first made by the United States government immediately following the Second World War. On September 28, 1945, US President Harry S. Truman issued two proclamations that established government control of natural resources in areas adjacent to the coastline. One of these proclamation was titled \"Policy of the United States With Respect to the Natural Resources of the Subsoil and\nSea Bed of the Continental Shelf\", and stipulated in its operative clause:\n\nthe Government of the United States regards the natural resources of the subsoil and sea bed of the continental shelf beneath the high seas but contiguous to the coasts of the United States as appertaining to the United States, subject to its jurisdiction and control.\nThe second proclamation was titled \"Policy of the United States With Respect to Coastal Fisheries in Certain Areas of the High Seas\", and stated in its operative clause:\n\nthe Government of the United States regards it as proper to establish conservation zones in those areas of the high seas contiguous to the coasts of the United States wherein fishing activities have been or in the future may be developed and maintained on a substantial scale.\nFollowing the US Presidential proclamation, the issue of legally determining territorial waters by international agreement was raised, and in its first session in 1949, the International Law Commission of the United Nations added the subject to its agenda.\n\nThe important issue of the breadth of territorial waters could not be resolved at either the UNCLOS I (1956-1958) or UNCLOS II (1960) conferences, with neither the two major contenders of a 3-mile or 12-mile limit reaching the required two-thirds support. This lack of agreement had the potential to lead to serious international disputes. It was only at the UNCLOS III (1973-1982) conference, whose provisions did not come into force until 1994, that this issue was resolved at twelve nautical miles.\n\nPirate radio broadcasting from artificial marine fixtures or anchored ships can be controlled by the affected coastal nation or other nations wherever that broadcast may originate, whether in the territorial sea, exclusive economic zone, the continental shelf or even on the high seas.\n\nThus a coastal nation has total control over its internal waters, slightly less control over territorial waters, and ostensibly even less control over waters within the contiguous zones. However, it has total control of economic resources within its exclusive economic zone as well as those on or under its continental shelf.\n\nThroughout this article, distances measured in nautical miles are exact legal definitions, while those in kilometres are approximate conversions that are not stated in any law or treaty.\n\nFederal nations, such as the United States, divide control over certain waters between the federal government and the individual states. (See tidelands.)\n\nMaritime controversies involve two dimensions: (a) territorial sovereignty, which are a legacy of history; and (b) relevant jurisdictional rights and interests in maritime boundaries, which are mainly due to differing interpretations of the law of the sea.\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of 13 May 2009, 51 submissions by 44 countries have been lodged for claims over their extended continental shelf. Some countries have multiple submissions and joint submissions with other countries. Recommendations have been given for 8 of the submissions.\n\nList with date of submission and adoption of recommendation by the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf.\n\n\nList in order of date of submission, with date of submission.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14551", "title": "Tertiary sector of the economy", "text": "Tertiary sector of the economy\n\nThe tertiary sector or service sector is the third of the three economic sectors of the three-sector theory. The others are the secondary sector (approximately the same as manufacturing), and the primary sector (raw materials).\n\nThe service sector consists of the production of services instead of end products. Services (also known as \"intangible goods\") include attention, advice, access, experience, and affective labor. The production of information has long been regarded as a service, but some economists now attribute it to a fourth sector, the quaternary sector.\n\nThe tertiary sector of industry involves the provision of services to other businesses as well as final consumers. Services may involve the transport, distribution and sale of goods from producer to a consumer, as may happen in wholesaling and retailing, pest control or entertainment. The goods may be transformed in the process of providing the service, as happens in the restaurant industry. However, the focus is on people interacting with people and serving the customer rather than transforming physical goods.\n\nIt is sometimes hard to define whether a given company is part and parcel of the secondary or tertiary sector. And it is not only companies that have been classified as part of that sector in some schemes; government and its services such as police or military, and non-profit organizations such as charities or research associations can also be seen as part of that sector.\n\nIn order to classify a business as a service, one can use classification systems such as the United Nations' International Standard Industrial Classification standard, the United States' Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code system and its new replacement, the North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS), the Statistical Classification of Economic Activities in the European Community (NACE) in the EU and similar systems elsewhere. These governmental classification systems have a first-level hierarchy that reflects whether the economic goods are tangible or intangible.\n\nFor purposes of finance and market research, market-based classification systems such as the Global Industry Classification Standard and the Industry Classification Benchmark are used to classify businesses that participate in the service sector. Unlike governmental classification systems, the first level of market-based classification systems divides the economy into functionally related markets or industries. The second or third level of these hierarchies then reflects whether goods or services are produced.\n\nFor the last 100 years, there has been a substantial shift from the primary and secondary sectors to the tertiary sector in industrialized countries. This shift is called tertiarisation. The tertiary sector is now the largest sector of the economy in the Western world, and is also the fastest-growing sector.\nIn examining the growth of the service sector in the early Nineties, the globalist Kenichi Ohmae noted that:\n\nEconomies tend to follow a developmental progression that takes them from a heavy reliance on agriculture and mining, toward the development of manufacturing (e.g. automobiles, textiles, shipbuilding, steel) and finally toward a more service-based structure. The first economy to follow this path in the modern world was the United Kingdom. The speed at which other economies have made the transition to service-based (or \"post-industrial\") economies has increased over time.\n\nHistorically, manufacturing tended to be more open to international trade and competition than services. However, with dramatic cost reduction and speed and reliability improvements in the transportation of people and the communication of information, the service sector now includes some of the most intensive international competition, despite residual protectionism.\n\nService providers face obstacles selling services that goods-sellers rarely face. Services are intangible, making it difficult for potential customers to understand what they will receive and what value it will hold for them. Indeed, some, such as consultants and providers of investment services, offer no guarantees of the value for price paid.\n\nSince the quality of most services depends largely on the quality of the individuals providing the services, \"people costs\" are usually a high fraction of service costs. Whereas a manufacturer may use technology, simplification, and other techniques to lower the cost of goods sold, the service provider often faces an unrelenting pattern of increasing costs.\n\nProduct differentiation is often difficult. For example, how does one choose one investment adviser over another, since they are often seen to provide identical services? Charging a premium for services is usually an option only for the most established firms, who charge extra based upon brand recognition.\n\nExamples of tertiary industries may include:\n\n\nBelow is a list of countries by service output at market exchange rates in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "29715583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29715583", "title": "Texturizing", "text": "Texturizing\n\nTexturising or texturizing is the process by which synthetic fibres are modified to change their texture - the physical appearance of the fibre. Texturising techniques can include bulking (where thermoplastic fibres are twisted, heat set and untwisted), crimping and coiling, amongst others. Texturising takes advantage of the thermoplastic nature of synthetic fibres, and uses it to set texturised features in place.\n\nFibres may be texturised to improve the fibre's insulation properties (as processes like bulking allow it to trap air better), to minimise a shiny, synthetic-looking appearance, to reduce the silky nature of the fibre, or to create special effects (fancy yarns). \n\nThese modifications will also affect the eventual fabric, and fibres may be folded, looped, coiled or crinkled in order to improve the drape, appearance, lustre, warmth, elasticity or handle of the finished fabric. Texturising can reduce the \"synthetic\" appearance of a finished fabric, bringing its appearance closer to that of a natural fibre fabric.\n"}
{"id": "2790824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2790824", "title": "Topple rate", "text": "Topple rate\n\nTopple rate is a name of a ratio of speed at which firms lose their leadership positions. It was believed that it was originally created by Jack Percival following losing his job. The Wall Street Journal article that appeared on September 9, 2007 attributes authorship to Patrick Viguerie, a McKinsey & Co. consultant.\n\nFor example, the minicomputer industry began, grew up, got big, profitable, smug, senile and died in 20 years from 1975 to 1995. Digital Equipment Corporation is a prime exemplar. In this case the topple rate of the minicomputer industry was 20 years.\n\nA high topple rate is especially frequently used as a saying in fields of technological business.\n\nThe Red Queen's race has incredible evolutionary similarities. To maintain a leadership position, an industry must change at the same or faster rate than competing industries.\n"}
{"id": "506701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506701", "title": "Trustee", "text": "Trustee\n\nTrustee (or the holding of a trusteeship) is a legal term which, in its broadest sense, is a synonym for anyone in a position of trust and so can refer to any person who holds property, authority, or a position of trust or responsibility for the benefit of another. A trustee can also refer to a person who is allowed to do certain tasks but not able to gain income. Although in the strictest sense of the term a trustee is the holder of property on behalf of a beneficiary, the more expansive sense encompasses persons who serve, for example, on the board of trustees of an institution that operates for a charity, for the benefit of the general public, or a person in the local government.\n\nA trust can be set up either to benefit particular persons, or for any charitable purposes (but not generally for non-charitable purposes): typical examples are a will trust for the testator's children and family, a pension trust (to confer benefits on employees and their families) and a charitable trust. In all cases, the trustee may be a person or company, whether or not they are a prospective beneficiary.\n\nTrustees have certain duties (some of which are fiduciary). These include the duty to:\n\nThe modern interpretation of fiduciary duty requires the consideration of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors as these are long-term investment value drivers. When evaluating whether or not an institutional investor has delivered on its fiduciary duties, both the outcomes achieved and the process followed are of critical importance. \n\nThe terms of instrument that creates the trust may narrow or expand these duties—but in most instances they cannot be eliminated completely. Corporate trustees, typically trust departments at large banks, often have very narrow duties, limited to those the trust indenture explicitly defines.\n\nA trustee carries the fiduciary responsibility and liability to use the trust assets according to the provisions of the trust instrument (and often regardless of their own or the beneficiaries' wishes). The trustee may find himself liable to claimants, prospective beneficiaries, or third parties. In the event that a trustee incurs a liability (for example, in litigation, or for taxes, or under the terms of a lease) in excess of the trust property they hold, they may find themselves personally liable for the excess.\n\nTrustees are generally held to a \"prudent person\" standard in regard to meeting their fiduciary responsibilities, though investment, legal, and other professionals can, in some jurisdictions, be held to a higher standard commensurate with their higher expertise.-Trustees can be paid for their time and trouble in performing their duties only if the trust specifically provides for payment. It is common for lawyers to draft will trusts so as to permit such payment, and to take office accordingly: this may be an unnecessary expense for small estates.\n\nIn an exception to the duties outlined above, sabbatical officers of students' unions who are also trustees of these organisations they work for do have the right to a salary (and hence profit from their being a trustee). This is an exception explicitly granted in the 1993 act\n\nThe broadest sense of the term \"trustee\" applies to someone held to a fiduciary duty similar in some respects to that of a trustee proper. For example, the directors of a bank may be trustees for the depositors, directors of a corporation are trustees for the stockholders and a guardian is trustee of his ward's property. Many corporations call their governing board a board of trustees, though in those cases they act as a board of directors.\n\nIn the case of UK charities, a \"trustee\" is a volunteer who undertakes fiduciary responsibilities on behalf of the charity, subject to the provisions of Charity Law, a branch of trust law, and the Charities Act 1993. For charity trustees, the Charity Commission of England and Wales, Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator of Scotland and Voluntary Activity Unit of Northern Ireland often has concurrent jurisdiction with the courts. Many UK charities are also limited liability companies registered with Companies House, in this case the trustees are also directors of the company and their liability is limited. This is the preferred model if the charity owns property or employs people.\n\nThe law on this in England changed considerably with the Charities Act of 2006. An account of the main changes can be found in \"Charities Act 2006 A guide to the new law\" by Michael King and Ann Phillips. One of the key changes made was that it introduced the Charitable Incorporated Organisation which is basically a limited liability charity. There are thus now two main aspects of corporate management of charities.\n\nOne is the traditional way in which a corporation is a corporate trustee of a given charity. The second is the new way, in which the charity itself is incorporated as a CIO. The advantages and disadvantages of the different methods is a complicated matter. According to King and Philips, many of the advantages of incorporating as a CIO are obtained if the trustees are not individuals but a corporate entity. \n\nDepending on the state, a trustee is a member of the \"village board of trustees\", which is a village's elected legislative body as outlined by local or state law. It can be composed of the mayor and a set number of trustees and usually manages village property, finances, safety, health, comfort, and general welfare and leadership of the town (acting as a board of police or fire commissioners or a moderate income housing board for example). \"Village board of trustees\" is comparable to but distinguished from city council or town council. Small villages have a trustee instead of a mayor, who is elected to manage village business in a similar function.\n\nIn some states, a civil township may be administered by a trustee or a group of trustees; see Indiana Township Trustee for an example.\n\nIn this context, a \"trusty\" is a prisoner who is trusted not to attempt an escape, and therefore requires little or no guarding. For example, a trusty may be allowed to leave the prison to attend work or other important events. Many times, \"trusty\" is misspelled as \"trustee\".\n\nIn the United States, when a consumer or business files for bankruptcy all property belonging to the filer becomes property of a newly created entity, the \"bankruptcy estate\". (See 11 U.S.C. § 541.) For all bankruptcies (consumer or business) filed under Chapter 7, 12 or 13 of Title 11 of the United States Code (the Bankruptcy Code), a trustee (the \"trustee in bankruptcy\" or TIB) is appointed by the United States Trustee, an officer of the Department of Justice that is charged with ensuring the integrity of the bankruptcy system and with representatives in each court, to manage the property of the bankruptcy estate, including bringing actions to avoid pre-bankruptcy transfers of property. In bankruptcies filed under Chapter 11, the debtor continues to manage the property of the bankruptcy estate, as \"debtor in possession,\" subject to replacement for cause with a trustee.\n\nChapter 7 trustees in bankruptcy are chosen by the United States Trustee from a panel, and are known as panel trustees. Every judicial district has a permanent Chapter 13 trustee, known as a \"standing trustee.\" As cases under Chapter 12 (for family farmers or fishermen) are filed fairly infrequently, the United States Trustee usually makes trustee appointments in such cases on an ad hoc basis.\n\n\n"}
