{"id": "38585538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38585538", "title": "2013 United Nations Climate Change Conference", "text": "2013 United Nations Climate Change Conference\n\nThe United Nations Climate Change Conference, COP19 or CMP9 was held in Warsaw, Poland from 11 to 23 November 2013. This is the 19th yearly session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 19) to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the 9th session of the Meeting of the Parties (CMP 9) to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. The conference delegates continue the negotiations towards a global climate agreement. UNFCCC's Executive Secretary Christiana Figueres and Poland's Minister of the Environment Marcin Korolec led the negotiations.\n\nThe conference led to an agreement that all states would start cutting emissions as soon as possible, but preferably by the first quarter of 2015. The Warsaw Mechanism was also proposed.\n\nSeveral preliminary and actual agreements were at the forefront of the talks, including: unused credits from phase one of the Kyoto Protocol, improvements to several UNFCCC action mechanisms, and a refinement of the measurement, reporting, and verification of greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs). Delegates are to focus on the potential conditions of a final global climate change agreement expected to be ratified in 2015 at the Paris Conference. \n\nThe location of UNFCCC talks are rotated by regions throughout United Nations countries. In 2013 Warsaw, the capital and largest city in Poland, was chosen to represent the Eastern European Group in the COP 19 Presidency. \n\nThe choice of Poland has been criticised by environmental organizations, including Greenpeace, because of the country's lack of commitment to reduce its use of fossil fuels and increase use of renewable energy. As of 2013, 88% of Poland's electricity is sourced from coal, as compared to the global average of 68% electricity from fossil fuels. Its officials have been blocking EU proposals to more effectively act against global warming. Standing alone against the other EU member states, in 2011 Poland blocked the proposed emission targets for 2050, and its environment minister Marcin Korolec (president of the conference) declared himself sceptical about the EU's strategy of leading by example. \n\nOver 10,000 participants from 189 countries registered to attend the conference, but only 134 ministers announced participation. Four countries that are among the most vulnerable to climate change were represented by their president or prime minister: Tuvalu, Nauru, Ethiopia and Tanzania. Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk dismissed Korolec in preference for a politician who would be better able to deliver a \"radical acceleration of shale gas operations\" in the country. However, he said that Korolec would remain the government's plenipotentiary for the conference.\n\nThe overarching goal of the conference is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) to limit the global temperature increase to 2 degrees Celsius above current levels. According to the Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC, Christiana Figueres,\n\nClean energy, and specifically the financing and technology transfer of renewables in developing countries, will be of main importance during the conference. The Indian Minister of the Environment stated before the talks that “the most important milestone would be climate finance and capitalisation of the Green Climate Fund (GCF), which has not happened at all... Developed countries that made a commitment earlier have now started talking of alternative sources of funding - whereas in our view these are commitments of the parties to the COP.” Agreements in the Copenhagen round ostensibly formalized $US 100 billion to the Clean Energy Fund by 2020 to assist developing countries in energy development, whereas only $US 7.5 million had been committed as of June 2013. Australia has support from Britain and others to head off demands for compensation payments to countries hit by damage they blame on climate change, sparking anger at a global summit meant to strike a deal this weekend. Acting on Tony Abbott’s edict to avoid any new financial commitments, Australian negotiators have held out against calls to support the “loss and damage” payments sought by poorer countries\n\nTechnology transfer and sharing of intellectual property between industrialised and developing countries will be a major concern in the Warsaw talks. Historically, these discussions have been stalled due to disagreements over the price and sharing mechanisms surrounding intellectual property, and thus new approaches are expected in the Warsaw conference. \n\nA stalemate surrounding the talks has been the insistence of the United States delegates on China and India conforming to binding reduction commitments - whereas Chinese and Indian delegates argue that funding from industrialised countries is needed before such emissions cuts can be executed without impacting GDP growth rates. India and Saudi Arabia blocked an agreement which could prevent the release of up to 100 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions by 2050. A key paragraph in a draft resolution that would have accelerated international cooperation under the Montreal Protocol was reportedly deleted at the last minute.\n\nThe deaths, injuries and destruction caused by Typhoon Haiyan were brought to attention during the opening day talks. In response to the typhoon and to climate change damage in general, Naderev \"Yeb\" Saño, the lead negotiator of the Philippines delegation, received a standing ovation for announcing:\nOn 21 November, the first Cities and Sub-national Dialogue took place. This consisted of selected ministers, mayors and sub-national leaders and civil society representatives discussing mitigation and adaptation at a local scale.\n\nThe G77 and China bloc led 132 poor countries in a walk out during talks about “loss and damage” compensation for the consequences of global warming. Poor countries have demanded that the developed world give them $100 billion annually by 2020.\nActivists and poor countries accused Australian diplomats of not taking the talks seriously. The country did not send high-ranking officials to the UN summit, saying that they would be busy repealing the country’s contentious carbon tax. \"The carbon tax is bad for the economy and it doesn’t do any good for the environment,\" Prime Minister Tony Abbott told The Washington Post. \"Despite a carbon tax of $37 a ton by 2020, Australia’s domestic emissions were going up, not down. The carbon tax was basically socialism masquerading as environmentalism, and that’s why it’s going to get abolished.\"\n\nOn the last day of the conference WWF, Oxfam, ActionAid, the International Trade Union Confederation, Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace walked out of the conference. Greenpeace spokesman Gregor Kessler, however, said that they would not leave the city but would \"follow the discussions from the outside. We will not be part of the internal discussions.\" Oxfam' Executive Director Winnie Byanyima said: \"[Governments] must...come back in 2014 ready for meaningful discussions on how they will deliver their share of the emissions reductions which scientists say are needed and their share of the money needed to help the poorest and most vulnerable countries adapt.\" All six issued a statement that read: \"Organisations and movements representing people from every corner of the Earth have decided that the best use of our time is to voluntarily withdraw from the Warsaw climate talks. The Warsaw climate conference, which should have been an important step in the just transition to a sustainable future, is on track to deliver virtually nothing.\"\n\nThe conference ran beyond the scheduled end date of 22 November by a day before some consensus was reached. Member states agreed to work towards curbing emissions as soon as possible, with an idea date targeted at the first quarter of 2015.\n\nTalk however continued on the aid that developed countries would pay to help emissions cuts by developing countries. Having previously promised US$100 billion a year after 2020 from the US$10 billion a year between 2010-2012, they resisted calls to set targets for the rest of the decade. The draft resolution of the conference, though, only mentioned setting \"increasing levels\" of aid. Further the Warsaw Mechanism was proposed, which would provide expertise, and possibly aid, to developing nations to cope with loss and damage from such natural extremities as heatwaves, droughts and floods and threats such as rising sea levels and desertification.\n\nThe organizers of COP19 were strongly criticised for posting comments in an online blog in the lead-up to the conference about the purported advantages of ice melting in the Arctic, stating that \"we may build new drilling platforms and retrieve natural resources hidden below the sea bed\", as well as \"chasing the pirates, terrorists and ecologists that will come to hang around\". The bloggers subsequently responded: \"Our recent entry on north-west passage was widely discussed but unfortunately misunderstood. The readers considered the forthcoming, bitter, but unfortunately possible scenario as [an] option we like. We do not. But how to react to the featured situation? Should we be silent? We are glad, that the topic caused so much interest and discussion, because the matter is really very serious.\" \n\nOrganizers from the Ministry of the Economy in Poland were also strongly criticised for co-hosting an event with the World Coal Association alongside the UNFCCC talks. This has been seen as a provocation against changing the energy source mix in Poland.\n\nThe dismissal of the conference president Marcin Korolec from his cabinet position as minister of environmental during the negotiations has been seen by delegates as a further sign of Poland's lack of commitment to progress global action on global warming. Prime minister Donald Tusk stated that the dismissal had to do with the need for \"radical acceleration of shale gas operations\".\n\nThe International Energy Agency has continually urged industrialised countries to reduce fossil fuel subsidies. It is expected that these subsidy actions will not be addressed. \nSeveral countries attending the COP 19 have been criticised for poor performance on stated environmental pollution targets. While the United States reduced its emissions of in 2012 by 11.8 percent compared to 2005, the largest reduction of any country, others have not done so well.\n\n"}
{"id": "17139269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17139269", "title": "Aged and Disability Pensioners Party", "text": "Aged and Disability Pensioners Party\n\nThe Aged and Disability Pensioners Party was a minor Australian political party that contested the 2004 federal election. The party was established on 13 December 2001. It supported the rights of pensioners. It was dissolved on 18 January 2006.\n"}
{"id": "16260299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16260299", "title": "Board-only", "text": "Board-only\n\nA board-only organization is one that is managed by a board that is self-appointed or otherwise not accountable (for all practical purposes) to a base of members through elections, a delegate body, etc. The growing trend to switch toward this type of structure is controversial. O'Regan & Oster have found that large, more representativeness boards score well on a number of indicators. Ostrower found that organizations with at least one governing body member directly elected by membership performs better on a number of governance indicators. However, some organizations find it difficult to maintain a membership-based structure in the wake of increasingly difficult-to-meet requirements for such organizations under the Model Nonprofit Corporation Act.\n"}
{"id": "6371234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6371234", "title": "Brethren Colleges Abroad", "text": "Brethren Colleges Abroad\n\nBCA Study Abroad (founded as Brethren College Abroad) began in 1962 as a secular, non-profit provider of academic, language and cultural immersion studies for undergraduates from a consortium of colleges and universities (see below). Faithful to the values of peace and social justice that inspired its founding, BCA Study Abroad facilitates opportunities for growth in intercultural understanding and global awareness through educational programs that foster scholarship, community engagement and guided reflective learning. Currently headquartered at Elizabethtown College in Elizabethtown, Pennsylvania, BCA's tagline is: Bridge the world, Connect for peace, Act for justice.\n\nBCA was founded in 1962 by Morley J. Mays as a consortium of six charter member colleges affiliated with the Church of the Brethren:\n\n\nBCA offered its first exchange program with Philipps-Universität in Marburg, Germany, the oldest extant Protestant university in the world. Today approximately 75 U.S. colleges and universities send students abroad through BCA.\n\nBCA offers 15 semester or year-long programs in 13 international locations, including:\n\nIn addition to their semester programs, BCA offers 6 summer programs including:\n\nFor more than 50 years, BCA Study Abroad has been committed to helping students understand the complexities of the contemporary world by providing quality academic programs and cross-cultural learning in locations around the globe. From its start, BCA focused its mission on bridging academic learning and connecting it directly to experiences with local people and the issues that impact their lives. As a result, BCA students actively participate in their own learning and develop critical skills that empower them to be engaged and informed global citizens..\n\n"}
{"id": "46600931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46600931", "title": "Brian Dailey", "text": "Brian Dailey\n\nBrian Dailey (born August 12, 1951) is an American artist noted for his careers in both art and international relations. His work in a variety of mediums—including photography, film, installations, and painting—engages with the social, political, and cultural issues of our times and is not easily categorized. Dailey's art reflects his unconventional evolution as an artist and multifaceted life experiences, which include national level involvement in arms control, space policy, intelligence systems, and international security. He is based in the Washington DC metropolitan area and maintains studios in the District and Woodstock, Virginia.\n\nDailey was born in Pittsburg, California. His parents divorced when he was three, precipitating his mother's return to her native New Zealand with Dailey and his sister and the family's subsequent relocation to England. They returned to the United States in 1956 and resided in Santa Monica, California, where he spent his youth. He took up photography at the age of 12, beginning his formal photographic training after entering Pacific Palisades High School.\n\nDailey attended Ventura College where he developed an interest in ceramic sculpture, shifting the direction of his art career. On the basis of his portfolio, he was accepted directly into the Masters program at Otis Art Institute in Los Angeles where he became interested in performance, conceptual art, and video technology. In 1984 he married fellow artist Paula Ballo, who succumbed to cancer in 2016.\n\nAs a student at Otis Art Institute (MFA, 1975) and in his ensuing art career in Los Angeles, Dailey participated in the creative experimentation defining the artistic milieu in California in this era. In his installation works from this period, he explored the role of the artist in the causal process. His performance pieces placed an emphasis on active viewer engagement.\n\nUpon graduation from Otis, Dailey began his art career exhibiting his performance and conceptual works in various institutions in Los Angeles and was represented by the Roger Wong Gallery. His work from this period includes painting, sculpture, and performance art, reflecting the pluralistic forms of creative expression and the political and social engagement generated by the Los Angeles artistic community.\n\nTravel and exposure to diverse cultures had a significant impact on Dailey. During his art education, he traveled to Europe, visiting museums to study paintings and sculptures that inspired him as a student and visiting countries in the Eastern Bloc to learn about the communist political system. In 1976, Dailey set out to Japan with the aim of working with the director Akira Kurosawa, whose films were a source of inspiration. He traveled on the Trans Siberian Express to Japan, transiting through the Soviet Union. Meeting artists and writers in East Berlin and along the train stops in Siberia, he became increasingly interested in international relations and the issue of artistic freedom in totalitarian regimes.\n\nDailey's residence in Japan was brief. Discovering that Kurosawa's professional and private life was at a nadir and confronting the challenges of working in Japan, he returned to Los Angeles where he worked with Sam Francis in his Litho Shop and with a number of other leading artists in his capacity as an assistant at ACE Gallery in Venice, California. He also worked for the architect James De Long, a student of Frank Lloyd Wright. His growing interest in film and video led to his working as a grip at the American Film Institute in Los Angeles, where he learned filmmaking. Having worked on AFI projects he began to work on his own films using a 16mm Beaulieu camera.\n\nIn 1981, Dailey's interest in international affairs and the Cold War led him to pursue a doctorate and a career in international relations. He studied arms control, Russian studies, and diplomatic history at the University of Southern California, receiving his degree in 1987 with a dissertation on the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty.\n\nDailey’s career in international affairs began in 1984 with an internship as assistant director for chemical warfare negotiations in the Pentagon. In January 1985, he became an Adjunct Professor of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, California. In this capacity, he managed a three-year Soviet deception project for the Pentagon's Director of Net Assessment and the U.S. Army as well as teaching courses on modern revolution and terrorism, nuclear targeting, strategic deception, and intelligence systems and products. In 1987, he co-edited and published the anthology \"Soviet Strategic Deception.\"\n\nIn January 1988, Dailey became a professional staff member of the Senate Armed Service Committee, assigned to the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces and Nuclear Deterrence. He was responsible for matters on arms control, missile defense, special access programs, as well as space and intelligence systems. In that capacity, he was also the minority staff liaison to Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. In 1992, he was appointed Executive Secretary of the National Space Council in the White House, where he was responsible for coordinating U.S. space policy for civil, commercial, defense, and intelligence issues.\n\nAt the end of the Cold War, Dailey transitioned to the private sector. He left the White House in 1993 to work for the Lockheed Corporation, where he was responsible for commercial programs including their joint ventures in the former Soviet Union. He went on to become a Senior Vice President and Corporate Officer of Lockheed Martin. In the course of his work in art, government, and the private sector, he traveled to more than 80 countries on all continents more than 50 times to the Soviet Union and Russia.\n\nDailey returned to art full-time in 2008, leveraging his experiences in the intervening decades in his creative practice. His approach to art is both conceptual and performance based, inviting the viewer's participation. In his frequent use of the photographic \"tableau vivant,\" Dailey explores topical existential questions and utilizes composite imagery as a vehicle for making critical commentary on contemporary social and political issues. These staged \"living pictures\" have been featured in exhibitions in Europe and the United States (see selected exhibitions below).\n\nDailey's early interest in film resurfaces in his current practice. His video \"Jikai\" (2012) alludes to Shakespeare's \"The Merchant of Venice,\" employing a moth fatally drawn to light. Dedicated to Kurosawa, the video is a meditation on political disintegration. \"Jikai\" was screened on multiple synchronized monitors in New York City in February 2014 as the featured video in the Times Square Midnight Moment series.\n\nDailey has had solo exhibitions in Los Angeles, New York, and Bulgaria and participated in a number of group shows in the United States, Europe, and Russia. His mid-career retrospective, \"Declassified: Unraveling a Paradox\", took place at Bulgaria's National Art Gallery in Sofia in 2014. Dailey was a featured speaker at FotoDC 2015, presenting his \"American in Color\" project as part of a series of talks on photobooks.\n\nDailey's encrypted \"Riddle\" series was featured in the exhibition \"GEOMETRIX: Line, Form, Subversion\", organized by Curator's Office at three-venues in Washington, DC from January 14 to April 16, 2016. \"Lamentations\", a meditation in two and three dimensions on nuclear theology and its implications in our atomic age, was featured in an interview with the artist in the Johns Hopkin's Journal of the Association for the Study of Arts of the Present. Three works from the \"Lamentations\" series were included in Absence and Presence: Arts in Foggy Bottom Outdoor Sculpture Biennial 2018, Washington DC and the associated exhibition at the Watergate Gallery. Dailey's \"Words\" series, an international exploration of the role of language in the construction of cultural identity in the global age, premiered in January 2018 at the Katzen Art Center at American University in Washington D.C.\n\nDailey is represented by the Baahng Gallery, 790 Madison Ave., New York, NY \n\n2018\n2017\n2016\n2015\n2014\n2013\n2012\n2011\n1977\n1976\n1975\n1973\n1972\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8019993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8019993", "title": "Britannic Majesty", "text": "Britannic Majesty\n\nHer Britannic Majesty, or His Britannic Majesty (HBM), depending on the sex of the monarch, is a formal, or official, term for the sovereign power of the United Kingdom in diplomacy, the law of nations, and international relations.\n\nFor example, in the Mandate for Palestine of the League of Nations, it was \"His Britannic Majesty\" who was designated as the Mandatory for Palestine.\n\nBritannic Majesty is used in all British passports, where the following sentence is used:\n\nHer Britannic Majesty's Secretary of State Requests and requires in the Name of Her Majesty all those whom it may concern to allow the bearer to pass freely without let or hindrance, and to afford the bearer such assistance and protection as may be necessary.\nThis is a reduced version of the wording on this British passport, issued in 1979:\n\nHer Britannic Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs Requests and requires in the Name of Her Majesty all those whom it may concern to allow the bearer to pass freely without let or hindrance, and to afford the bearer such assistance and protection as may be necessary.\n"}
{"id": "34935156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34935156", "title": "California State Relief Administration", "text": "California State Relief Administration\n\nThe California State Relief Administration (SRA), created in 1935, was the successor to the State Emergency Relief Administration (SERA), created in 1933. The agencies were responsible for distributing state and federal funds to improve conditions in California during the Great Depression, and administered unemployment relief.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35513678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35513678", "title": "Corruption in Albania", "text": "Corruption in Albania\n\nCorruption in Albania is a problem. According to Global Corruption Barometer 2013, 66% of respondents indicated that level of corruption has increased in Albania.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 91st place out of 180 countries with score 38. (39 in 2016, 36 in 2015, 33 in 2014 and 31 in 2013).\n\nCorruption is still considered one of the most problematic factors for establishing business in Albania. Even though anti-corruption legal framework of Albania is moderate, its enforcement is weak and corruption conviction rates are still very low.\n\n"}
{"id": "46767772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46767772", "title": "Corruption in Navarre", "text": "Corruption in Navarre\n\nCorruption in Navarre refers to a quick succession of corruption scandals which have come to light since 2012 referring to the UPN's tenure in office (since 1996). However, amidst heated political confrontation since the late days of Franco's dictatorship, the first corruption cases erupted early on, going back to the first government cabinets formed after the establishment of Navarre's \"Betterment\" (the \"Amejoramiento\", a Navarre-specific administrative system, 1982).\n\nIn 1996, Miguel Sanz's government started a 15-year period of distancing and breaking of virtually all historic institutional bonds and cultural cooperation with fellow Basque provinces, citing fears of a \"Basque nationalist takeover\", and billing themselves as the guarantee of Navarrese institutions and identity. However, two prime rallying points and historic flagship institutions of all the Navarrese, i.e.Caja Navarra and Osasuna, collapsed during the UPN's tenure in office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59105884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59105884", "title": "Courage to Resist", "text": "Courage to Resist\n\nCourage to Resist (CTR) formed as an organization in the San Francisco, CA area during the early part of the Iraq War (often called the 2nd Iraq war), which began in 2003. It now has members spread around the U.S., but is still mainly concentrated in the San Francisco Bay Area. The group’s overall mission is to support U.S military war resisters, including helping them with legal fees. They have defended and supported well-known resisters like Chelsea Manning and Reality Winner, and in 2018 began encouraging soldiers to refuse to be involved with the immigrant detention camps and other immigrant operations of the U.S. military. Their principle slogans are “Supporting the troops who refuse to fight!” and \"Towards a World Without War!\" They support those “who face consequences for acting on conscience, in opposition to illegal wars, occupations, [and] the policies of empire”.\n\nThe Iraq War started amid controversy with many questioning everything from its legality to the existence in Iraq of “weapons of mass destruction”. According to French academic Dominique Reynié, between 3 January and 12 April 2003, people across the globe took part in almost 3,000 protests against war in Iraq, with demonstrations on 15 February 2003 being the largest.. This questioning was also occurring in the U.S. military and on April 1, 2003 Stephen E. Funk, a U.S. Marine Corps Lance Corporal Reservist, became the first of numerous soldier resisters when he held a press conference outside the Camp Pendleton Marine Base in Oceanside, CA publicly announcing his refusal to participate in the war. Like minded civilians and veterans of earlier wars stepped forward to support Funk and then decided, as other soldiers refused orders and faced courts martial, that a broader organization was needed. It wouldn’t be enough, they thought, to form a committee in support of each individual objector – the result was Courage to Resist.\n\nOne of Funk’s early supporters was Jeff Paterson, a former Marine who, because he was the first soldier to publically refuse orders to the 1st Iraq War in 1990, felt a particular kinship with Funk. Paterson had been a Marine for five years and was on the verge of returning to civilian life when his discharge was cancelled in lieu of orders to the Persian Gulf. On August 7, 1990, as his unit boarded an aircraft in Hawaii, he sat down on the tarmac and refused to move. A week later he, like Funk, held a press conference where he stated, “I will not be a pawn in America’s power plays for profit and oil in the Middle East”. Paterson was a founding member of and has served for many years as the Project Director for CTR.\n\nCTR supported several early public resisters to the Iraq War, including Army Staff Sergeants Camilo Mejia and Kevin Benderman, Navy Petty Officer Pablo Paredes, Army medic Agustin Aguayo, Private First Class Robin Long, and Army First Lieutenant Ehren Watada, and continued to support military resisters throughout the war. They raised money to build public support and to help with legal defense. They staged rallies outside the military bases where resisters were being court martialed, demonstrated outside military recruiting stations, and participated in national days of actions to oppose the war and support war resisters.\n\nCTR supported the earliest public resisters to the War in Afghanistan (2001–present) including Victor Agosto and Travis Bishop.\n\nCTR members traveled to Israel and Palestine, learning much about Israeli war resistance movements. They talked with former Israeli soldiers about their experiences “carrying out acts of brutality and occupation” and decided as an organization to support their resistance to the Israeli military. In 2008 they were instrumental in issuing a statement signed by 26 U.S. military soldiers and veterans who refused to fight in Iraq and Afghanistan, which supported Israeli Shministim (Hebrew for “12th graders”) who were also resisting military service. In 2018 they supported Tamar Ze’evi, a 15-year-old who spent 115 days in jail for refusing to enlist in the Israeli army.\n\nIn April 2010 a video showing a U.S. helicopter attack in Baghdad that killed eleven unarmed Iraqi civilians, including two Reuters employees, and seriously wounded two children was released by Wikileaks and quickly spread via the Internet and news media. On May 27, 2010, Chelsea Manning, then known as Bradley Manning, was arrested and soon charged with espionage and “aiding the enemy”. Within days of Manning’s arrest, CTR joined with others to defend her and help raise money for her defense. On August 21, 2013 she was sentenced 35 years in prison, reduction in rank to private, forfeiture of all pay and allowances, and a dishonorable discharge. This was the longest sentence ever given to a whistleblower and was widely criticized. Throughout the trial and the 7 years Manning ended up serving in Leavenworth prison, CTR defended her and provided financial support through the Chelsea Manning Support Network. Manning's lead defense attorney, David Coombs, credited CTR directly for her early release: “If not for the efforts of Jeff Paterson and the Manning Support Network and Courage to Resist, there’s no way that a president would spend the political capital to grant a commutation”. And Manning herself said on the NBC Today show that she \"would especially like to thank Courage to Resist and the Bradley Manning Support Network for their tireless efforts in raising awareness for my case and providing for my legal representation.\"\n\nThroughout its existence, CTR has focused some of its efforts on U.S. military recruiting, including the efforts of the military to influence and recruit youth. They have organized demonstration and vigils outside military recruiting centers and have on at least one occasion forced a Marine recruiting center to close for several hours. They use materials like the photo on the right from the \"Stop Recruiting Kids\" campaign.\n\nReality Winner, a former U.S. Air Force intelligence specialist and military contractor, was arrested on June 3, 2017 and charged under the Espionage Act with leaking a National Security Agency report about Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections to the news website \"The Intercept\". Very quickly after her arrest, CTR began a campaign demanding the charges against her be dropped. They led the efforts to form the \"Stand With Reality\" support committee which stated that “the charge against Winner is grossly disproportionate to her alleged offense, and is designed to create a chilling effect on investigative journalism by dissuading sources from sharing information that is critical to the public interest.” On August 23, 2018 Winner received a sentence of 5 Years in prison. Since her conviction, CTR has joined with many other organizations to call for Winner’s pardon or the commuting of her sentence to time served.\n\nCTR’s most recent campaign opposes the use of U.S. military personnel in immigrant detention camps and along U.S. borders. They have produced materials encouraging soldiers to resist what they call “illegal” orders in relation to immigration and they have supported GIs who have publically resisted. For example, they support U.S. Army Captain Brittany DeBarros who has used social media and other public statements to voice her opposition to the military’s immigrant related deployments. She stated, “I didn’t take an oath to defend illegal war abroad and immigrant concentration camps at home. True leaders refuse illegal and immoral orders.”\n\n"}
{"id": "33797800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33797800", "title": "D'Oliveira affair", "text": "D'Oliveira affair\n\nThe D'Oliveira affair was a prolonged political and sporting controversy relating to the scheduled 1968–69 tour of South Africa by the England cricket team, who were officially representing the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC). The point of contention was whether or not the England selectors would include Basil D'Oliveira, a mixed-race South African player who had represented England in Test cricket since 1966, having moved there six years earlier. With South Africa under apartheid, the potential inclusion by England of a non-white South African in their tour party became a political issue.\n\nA Cape Coloured of Indian and Portuguese ancestry, D'Oliveira left South Africa primarily because the era's apartheid legislation seriously restricted his career prospects on racial grounds and barred him from the all-white Test team. He qualified for Worcestershire County Cricket Club through residency in 1964 and first played for England two years later. The consequences of D'Oliveira's possible inclusion in the 1968–69 MCC tour of South Africa were discussed by English and South African cricketing bodies as early as 1966. Manoeuvring by cricketing and political figures in both countries did little to bring the matter to a head. The MCC's priority was to maintain traditional links with South Africa and have the series go ahead without incident. South Africa's Prime Minister B. J. Vorster sought to appease international opinion by publicly indicating that D'Oliveira's inclusion would be acceptable, but secretly did all he could to prevent it.\n\nD'Oliveira was omitted from the England team for part of 1968 amid a slump in his batting form, but he marked his return in late August with a score of 158 runs in England's final Test match of the year, against Australia at The Oval. Days later, the MCC selectors omitted D'Oliveira from the team to tour South Africa; they insisted that this was based entirely on cricketing merit, but many in Britain voiced apprehension and there was a public outcry. After Tom Cartwright's withdrawal because of injury on 16 September, the MCC chose D'Oliveira as a replacement, prompting accusations from Vorster and other South African politicians that the selection was politically motivated. Attempts to find a compromise followed, but these led nowhere. The MCC announced the tour's cancellation on 24 September.\n\nSporting boycotts of South Africa were already under way by 1968, but the D'Oliveira controversy was the first to have a serious effect on South African cricket. The South African Cricket Board of Control announced its intention to remove racial barriers in South African cricket in 1969, and formally integrated the sport in 1976. Meanwhile, the boycott movement escalated sharply, leading to South Africa's near-complete isolation from international cricket from 1971, though the country continued to play international rugby into the 1980s, twice allowing mixed-race New Zealand rugby teams into the country during the 1970s. D'Oliveira played for England until 1972, and for Worcestershire until 1979. South Africa returned to international cricket in 1991, soon after apartheid began to be dismantled.\n\nFrom the time that European settlers first arrived in South Africa in 1652, the country was divided on racial lines, in common with similar settlements. In contrast to other European colonies, racial distinction and segregation intensified during the early 20th century, and the various ethnic groups became more sharply defined and divided. Following its general election victory in 1948, the National Party, led by Daniel Malan, formalised this racism under a government policy called apartheid. Under apartheid, different races were kept apart in all aspects of life. This system was thoroughly enforced during the 1950s; any resistance from non-white races was put down and laws, supposedly to prevent the rise of communism, were passed to prevent political agitation.\n\nFrom a cricketing viewpoint, the apartheid policy made little difference. Although cricket was played widely among the different racial groups in South Africa, the Test team, which represented the country in international matches, had always been all white. Under apartheid, this became official policy under the government reasoning that black, coloured (mixed race) and Indian players were inherently inferior and not worthy of selection. Different races were forbidden from competing against each other. South African cricket teams did not compete against India, Pakistan or the West Indies, but teams from England, Australia and New Zealand continued to visit the country. English cricketers particularly enjoyed tours to South Africa owing to the hospitality they received and the quality of living. The political writer and historian Peter Oborne commented: \"Relations between the cricket establishments of the two countries were exceptionally warm. Only few visitors noticed, and even fewer cared, that there was something wrong.\"\n\nDuring the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) tour of South Africa during 1948–49, the first under apartheid, the BBC commentator John Arlott was horrified when he saw a black man assaulted for no reason. This prompted him to visit several townships where he found black people living in very poor conditions. He contrasted this unfavourably with the luxury of the homes where he was entertained by white families. Billy Griffith, one of the touring team, accompanied him on one visit to a township, and was similarly appalled, but did not speak out against it. Arlott later condemned apartheid, during a 1950 BBC broadcast, and refused to commentate during future tours to the country. His example was followed by the England batsman and clergyman David Sheppard, who declined to tour South Africa, refused to play the team in 1960, and spoke out publicly against the policies of the South African government despite efforts by the MCC to silence him. Otherwise, there was little protest in England against South African cricket during the 1950s.\n\nFrom the mid-1950s, the United Nations began to express concern over apartheid, and there was a growing general awareness in Britain of its effects. In 1960 the UK Prime Minister, Harold Macmillan, criticised apartheid in his \"Wind of Change\" speech to the South African parliament. However, the British government was cautious; the large number of British passport holders and businesses based in South Africa made them reluctant to force the issue and provoke a confrontation. Additionally, there was support for the policy among some right-wing politicians. When the MCC team toured South Africa in 1956–57, the players observed and were shocked by what they considered to be injustices against the black population. As many players and officials had family and friends in the country, they were disinclined to take a stand, but several condemned the situation in print at the time or later.\n\nOverall attitudes in Britain towards South African cricket began to change in the 1960s. At the time, race was becoming a more emotive matter in Britain and immigration from Asia and the Caribbean became an issue in general elections. Racial tensions had risen throughout the 1950s, and race riots had occurred. Tim Quelch, in his review of English cricket in the 1950s, suggests that \"[England's] record on race relations had hardly been exemplary\". But Jack Williams, in his book \"Cricket and Race\", suggests that cricket was a force for racial harmony in England given the influx of African-Caribbean and Asian overseas players and the mingling of white and African-Caribbean supporters during several Test series between England and the West Indies. Against this background, when the South African team toured England in 1960, there were some protests against apartheid.\n\nWithin South Africa, there was growing realisation among opponents of apartheid that sport could play a role in pressuring the government. During the 1950s, South Africa competed freely in international competition; the governing bodies of the major international sports recognised only the official, all-white South African institutions. By the end of the decade, this began to change. Several non-white sporting organisations within South Africa united and began to influence international opinion. The resulting pressure brought about the suspension of the all-white Football Association of South Africa from FIFA—for two years from 1961, then after a brief reinstatement, again from 1964—which prevented South Africa from participating in the 1966 World Cup. South Africa was also excluded from international fencing in 1964. However, because neither fencing nor football was closely followed in white South Africa, the impact was limited. Suspension from the Olympics had a greater effect; another campaign from within South Africa and the consequent change in international opinion resulted in South Africa being barred from the 1964 Olympics and those that followed.\n\nIn 1966, before a tour by the New Zealand rugby team, the South African government asked New Zealand to field an all-white team (thereby excluding Māori players); the New Zealand Rugby Football Union refused and cancelled the tour. As rugby was very popular among white South Africans, this caused concern in that community. The England cricket team was in New Zealand at the time, and Billy Griffith, by then the secretary of the MCC, when questioned said that the MCC would also cancel in similar circumstances. Despite these events in other world sports, South Africa continued to play international cricket. Efforts to put pressure on the International Cricket Conference (ICC) failed, and even when South Africa withdrew from the Commonwealth in 1961 (theoretically forfeiting the national team's Test status), their traditional opponents continued to play official Tests against them despite opposition from India, Pakistan and the West Indies.\n\nBasil D'Oliveira was born in Cape Town in 1931 and, coming from a mixed Indian-Portuguese background, formed part of the Cape Coloured community. He demonstrated skill in cricket from an early age, but as the apartheid system classified him as non-white, he was barred from playing first-class cricket in South Africa or representing the national team. He represented and captained a \"non-white\" South African team which played unofficial international matches. He was left distraught by the cancellation in 1959, at the behest of South African anti-apartheid campaigners, of a proposed visit by a West Indies team which was to compete against non-white sides. Realising that he had achieved all he could as a non-white sportsman in South Africa, he wrote to John Arlott in England to ask for help finding employment as a cricketer.\n\nArlott enlisted the help of John Kay, a cricket journalist with expertise in the Lancashire leagues, to find a job for D'Oliveira as a club professional. No teams were initially interested, but when Middleton's professional withdrew at the last minute, the club employed D'Oliveira for the 1960 season. After a poor start, he prospered for Middleton. He established a wider reputation by playing televised matches for a team called the \"Cavaliers\", and took part in overseas tours with some leading cricketers. Several English county cricket clubs expressed an interest in him, and he eventually joined Worcestershire. Qualifying for the county team through residency, he made his debut in 1964 and scored a century on his first appearance. By the 1966 season, he had progressed to the point that he was picked for England Test team. D'Oliveira was immediately successful for England; by the following year he was well-established in the team.\n\nFrom early in his England career, D'Oliveira and his supporters saw the MCC tour of South Africa in 1968–69 as potentially being a key moment in his career. Guy Fraser-Sampson suggests: \"Nobody could be in any doubt that the possibility of D'Oliveira being chosen as a member of the England touring party would raise massive political complications\". When D'Oliveira visited South Africa to work as a coach in 1966, the subject was raised continually. People speculated whether D'Oliveira would be selected and, if so, whether the South African government would allow him to play. Some of his supporters worried that his acceptance of a place on a tour to South Africa might be interpreted as approval of the political situation there, but D'Oliveira was determined to play, aware of what it would mean to the non-white people of South Africa. In 1967, Griffith flew to South Africa to discuss the forthcoming tour and to seek a solution to any potential problems—the MCC wanted the tour to go ahead without any political trouble. Little came of the meetings; Oborne suggests that both sides simply \"agreed to hope that the whole issue went away\".\n\nAfter a successful season for England in 1967, D'Oliveira was chosen to tour the West Indies in 1967–68; this raised awareness in England and South Africa that he was a realistic contender to tour South Africa a year later. However, his opportunities to excel were few in the West Indies; circumstances were against him in several matches, and he had a statistically poor tour. Any mitigating circumstances were offset by problems off the field. D'Oliveira took full advantage of the social opportunities available on a tour of the West Indies and frequently disappeared to parties and other events, often not reappearing until after breakfast. Rumours to this effect reached the press and the MCC tour manager spoke to D'Oliveira about his responsibilities on tour. D'Oliveira said that his behaviour and poor form were partly a result of the pressure placed on him. He was frequently questioned about the South African tour and about race—some groups in the West Indies accused him of \"selling out\" by playing for England's \"white\" team.\n\nThe position of the South African government towards mixed-race teams was well established by 1967. It was stated explicitly after the visit of Griffith when, in February 1967, the Interior Minister P. K. Le Roux said in a speech: \"We will not allow mixed teams to play against our white teams here. That is our policy. It is well known here and overseas.\" These comments caused a public row in Britain, and some commentators wanted the tour to be called off; the MCC informed the British government that players would be selected on ability alone and that any attempts from within South Africa to interfere would cause the tour to be cancelled. Denis Howell, the Minister for Sport, informed the House of Commons of the MCC position and stated that the government expected that the MCC would cancel the tour if any player were to be rejected. Privately, the MCC committee were unhappy to have been forced into so unequivocal a position.\n\nB. J. Vorster, the Prime Minister of South Africa, was embarrassed by Le Roux's public comments and forced him to deny having made them. However, the British government's intervention cemented in Vorster's mind the idea that it and the MCC were closely connected. In April 1967 he gave a speech in which he said that while sport between white and non-white teams could not take place in South Africa, the government would be prepared to send mixed teams to play abroad and to accommodate mixed teams from South Africa's \"traditional\" opponents. This change of direction was aimed at entering a team in the 1968 Olympics, to avoid a repeat of the cancelled New Zealand rugby tour and with D'Oliveira's selection in mind. The MCC decided later in 1967 to clarify that Vorster's government would impose no limitations on the players chosen for the tour. In January 1968, Griffith wrote on behalf of the MCC to the South African Cricket Association (SACA) with the implication that the tour would be cancelled if a free selection was not guaranteed.\n\nAccording to Oborne, Vorster was a pragmatic politician who wanted to maintain apartheid and to make it appear acceptable to the outside world. To this end, attempting to broaden South Africa's international connections, he accepted black foreign diplomats in the country and began to plan a policy to allow mixed-race sport to prevent South Africa's international isolation. However, such policies were unpopular with his domestic supporters and he was careful not to go too far. Oborne writes: \"Vorster knew that there was a limit to how far he could go without imperilling his own position. That limit was Basil D'Oliveira.\" According to Oborne, Vorster never intended to allow D'Oliveira to play with the MCC team; his supporters would not have accepted a non-white South African benefiting from this change of policy and demonstrating his ability at a high level. Vorster therefore worked to give the impression overseas that D'Oliveira would be welcome, while at the same time doing his utmost to stop him from playing. He courted the British ambassador, Sir John Nicholls, and told him that a tour party including D'Oliveira would be acceptable. Nicholls passed this on to the UK government. Vorster meanwhile monitored D'Oliveira's progress closely; from his debut in 1966, South Africa kept a security file on him.\n\nIn March 1968, having received no response from the SACA to Griffith's letter, the MCC asked Alec Douglas-Home to intervene. Douglas-Home, a former British Prime Minister and then the Opposition spokesman for foreign affairs, had just finished his term as MCC president and was visiting Rhodesia and South Africa; he agreed to raise the question of D'Oliveira during a meeting with Vorster that was part of his itinerary. Douglas-Home believed that the best way to deal with apartheid was through dialogue and that contact between the countries should be increased, not reduced—as he described it, \"precept and example must be better than ostracism\". When he met Vorster, Douglas-Home was reluctant to press him for an unequivocal answer, but discussed D'Oliveira. He also sounded out other figures in South Africa and returned to England to tell the MCC, in the words of the cricket writer E. W. Swanton, that \"if D'Oliveira were to be chosen the odds were 5/4 on his being allowed in\".\n\nIn the view of Fraser-Sampson: \"While Douglas-Home's motives remain obscure, it is clear that he muddied the waters dreadfully. By allowing the MCC to believe they could continue happily fudging the issue, and by misleading them as to Vorster's true intentions, he delivered the worst of both worlds.\" Following Douglas-Home's advice, the MCC let the matter drift throughout the 1968 season. Conscious of D'Oliveira's poor form in the West Indies and continued lack of success during early 1968, the MCC committee kept in mind that it was far from certain that he would even make the team to tour South Africa.\n\nMeanwhile, with the knowledge of Vorster and the South African government, the SACA carefully devised its answer to the MCC letter. The reply, which avoided directly answering the MCC question, was hand-delivered to the MCC secretary George \"Gubby\" Allen in March 1968 by the former South African Test captain Jack Cheetham, a close associate of several MCC officials. By this point, the MCC had accepted Douglas-Home's advice and no longer wanted a reply to their letter—Oborne records that when Cheetham \"cheerily produced his laboriously produced document, a panic-stricken Gubby Allen waved it away.\" The letter was never presented to the full MCC Committee, and Cheetham returned to South Africa with news that a reply was not required—preparations for the tour could proceed as normal. This allowed Vorster to conceal his intentions regarding D'Oliveira for a further six months. Allen later justified his actions by suggesting that he was concerned that the SACA letter would be leaked to the press if it went any further. Oborne believes that Allen wished to hide from the full committee the MCC hierarchy's change of mind over the approach to take with the South Africans; he suggests that Allen and Griffith were effectively acting as a secret MCC subcommittee from this point.\n\nVorster and the SACA followed D'Oliveira's form closely throughout the tour of West Indies and into the 1968 season. D'Oliveira's lack of success prompted press speculation that he might lose his England place for entirely non-political reasons, but Vorster was convinced that the MCC were committed to selecting him under any circumstances. He therefore conceived a two-pronged plan to prevent D'Oliveira's selection for the 1968–69 tour. He and the SACA would attempt to bribe D'Oliveira to make himself unavailable, while simultaneously persuading the English selectors—or more specifically the MCC, who Vorster believed would determine selection policy—not to choose him. The latter part of the plan depended on the MCC realising that picking D'Oliveira would mean no tour, but in making such attempts the South Africans risked public discovery, which would cause the tour to be cancelled anyway.\n\nThe bribery was planned from an early stage, but had to be postponed when D'Oliveira did not return to South Africa before the 1968 season. The second part of the plan was put into operation in March 1968. Vorster resolved to send a secret message to the MCC through Lord Cobham, a member and former president of the MCC with close links to D'Oliveira's county side Worcestershire. Cobham was visiting South Africa at Griffith's request to meet Arthur Coy, an official of the SACA. Cobham told Coy that he wanted the tour to go ahead, but agreed with him that D'Oliveira's inclusion would be \"disastrous\". Cobham seems to have promised Coy that he would attempt to dissuade D'Oliveira from touring, but never actually did so. Cobham then met Vorster, who told him that if D'Oliveira were chosen, the tour would be cancelled.\n\nOn his return to England, Cobham kept this information from the full MCC committee, knowing that they would be forced to cancel the tour if they became aware of it. Instead, he wrote a letter to a committee member, whose identity has never been made public. The letter's recipient passed it on to Griffith, who in turn showed it to Allen and Arthur Gilligan, at that time the MCC president. These three men chose to hide the information from the full committee, and nobody informed Denis Howell. Allen later defended these actions, setting out his reasoning in his biography, which was written by his close friend Swanton—Allen argued that the advice given by Douglas-Home, an international diplomat, took precedence over Cobham's information and had already been accepted by the MCC. He further suggested that, as the four England selectors had to choose the team \"without any other consideration\", and two of them sat on the MCC committee, it would have been unfair to burden them with Cobham's information. Oborne dismisses Allen's reasoning as \"disastrously muddled\", pointing out that Cobham's advice was far more up-to-date than Douglas-Home's, and that there would have been no burden of conscience for the team selectors as the new information would have caused the tour to be cancelled.\n\nBy the beginning of the 1968 season, the MCC's public position followed the advice of Douglas-Home: it was unknown whether or not South Africa would accept D'Oliveira and it would be better not to press the issue. Even so, three key members of the MCC were aware of the reality of the situation. Vorster had avoided international condemnation as he had not publicly declared D'Oliveira unacceptable, but his stand had been clearly conveyed to London in private.\n\nD'Oliveira was aware of the political discussions surrounding him during 1968, and the pressure on him was intensified by the scrutiny of his supporters and opponents in England and South Africa. Conscious of his failure in the West Indies, he made a concerted effort to improve his batting. He scored runs consistently and was chosen for England's first Test of 1968, against Australia in early June. He was very successful, scoring 87 not out and taking two wickets. After England lost, however, D'Oliveira was blamed in some sections of the press. \"Wisden Cricketers' Almanack\" noted that he failed as a bowler, and his innings was difficult to evaluate as England had effectively lost the match by that stage. Even so, most observers expected him to retain his place, including the watching South Africans.\n\nBefore the second Test, played at Lord's, a series of events took place that Fraser-Sampson later described as \"so bizarre as to be totally unbelievable, and yet [they] happened\". The evening before play began, Griffith suggested to D'Oliveira that, to save the 1968–69 series, he should withdraw himself from consideration for the tour, and announce that he wished in future to play for South Africa rather than England. D'Oliveira angrily declined. The next day, E. W. Swanton—a journalist technically unconnected with the MCC, but a close friend of Allen and a member of the \"Establishment\"—approached the player with a similar proposition, which D'Oliveira again dismissed. Both Griffith and Swanton were opposed to apartheid—Swanton had refused to report on the 1964–65 MCC tour of South Africa because of his objections to the system, and he supported D'Oliveira from a cricketing standpoint. This plan probably originated from one of the several South Africans present at Lord's with an interest in the D'Oliveira question, including Coy and the private cricket tour organiser Wilfred Isaacs; according to Fraser-Sampson, there is evidence to suggest that it first came from the SACA. Oborne writes that Griffith and Swanton were probably well-intentioned, and posits that they might have been caught up in a South African scheme in their search for a solution to the D'Oliveira problem. Fraser-Sampson suggests that they and other MCC figures may have felt forced into this course of action by the vigour of the South Africans' protests that they would not tolerate a team including D'Oliveira.\n\nOn the morning of the second Test, D'Oliveira was told by Colin Cowdrey, the England captain, that he had been left out of the team and was instead twelfth man. In his place, England chose a fast bowler to strengthen their bowling attack. While the game was taking place, Doug Insole, the chairman of the England selectors, introduced D'Oliveira to Isaacs, who offered him warm hospitality if he toured South Africa during the English winter. Deeply upset with his omission, D'Oliveira returned to play for Worcestershire once his twelfth man duties ended. Oborne suggests that, from a cricketing viewpoint, the decision to drop D'Oliveira looks odd, and that it may have been connected to the South African presence at Lord's. The replacement for D'Oliveira, Barry Knight, performed well in the second Test; D'Oliveira, by contrast, lost all batting form. From mid-June until August, bothered by the pressure over South Africa, he struggled to score, managing just 205 runs at an average of 12.81. He maintained his form as a bowler, but critics believed his chance had gone. In July, as part of a standard procedure, the MCC wrote to 30 leading players to ask if they were available to tour South Africa; D'Oliveira was not contacted. According to Fraser-Sampson, the idea that D'Oliveira was not then one of England's best 30 players was absurd; he writes that the selectors must therefore have been aware that Vorster would not accept his selection and they had consequently decided not to choose him.\n\nDuring his slump in form, D'Oliveira was contacted by Tienie Oosthuizen, a director at the tobacco company Carreras, which was, alongside Rothmans, part of the South African Rembrandt Tobacco Corporation. Rembrandt had set up a group known as the South African Sports Foundation (SASF) to promote amateur sport. Oosthuizen told D'Oliveira that he represented Rothmans, who had sponsored matches featuring D'Oliveira while he was waiting to qualify for Worcestershire. He offered D'Oliveira work as a coach for the SASF on an annual salary of £4,000—a vast sum for a professional cricketer at the time—on the condition that he took up this role immediately at the end of the 1968 season, and thereby made himself unavailable for the MCC tour before selection took place. D'Oliveira tentatively declined, but Oosthuizen persisted, first offering to find out if he would be included in the MCC team, then telling him that his presence in that side would embarrass Vorster. D'Oliveira was aware that accepting the offer could cause many to lose respect for him as he would be abandoning the opportunity to play against South Africa, but nevertheless considered it over the following weeks. Oosthuizen repeatedly pressured him to accept. Shortly before the final Test of 1968, he offered personally to match the money that D'Oliveira told him he had been offered to make himself available for the MCC team. D'Oliveira stalled, and involved his agent, Reg Hayter. After further conversations with Oosthuizen, D'Oliveira decided to try to postpone a decision until after the team to tour South Africa was announced—Hayter had established from a source close to the selectors that D'Oliveira had a good chance of being picked.\n\nDuring a later press investigation, Oosthuizen claimed to have acted independently. Anton Rupert, the head of Rembrandt, endorsed this version, asserting that Oosthuizen had acted in his capacity as an employee of the SASF. Rupert said this was an autonomous organisation, but according to Oborne the SASF constitution made it totally dependent on Rembrandt. Oborne writes that Oosthuizen's offers were rooted in the plans made by Vorster and Coy to bribe D'Oliveira indirectly by offering him work that would prevent him from playing for the MCC. Oborne surmises that the position and salary offered to D'Oliveira did not come from the SASF, but were actually part of a scheme involving Vorster and Rupert to remove the controversial player from the tour. Williams also concludes that the offer was effectively a bribe to stop D'Oliveira playing.\n\nIn early August, D'Oliveira returned to form with an innings of 89 against Warwickshire. Before the fifth and final England–Australia Test match, played between 22 and 27 August, Cowdrey batted at the Oval, where the match was to be played, and deduced that medium-paced bowlers would be very effective given the condition of the cricket pitch. Consequently, when the England team was chosen, he asked for a medium-paced bowler to be placed in reserve in case conditions warranted their selection. The two first-choice selections, Knight and Tom Cartwright, were unavailable, so D'Oliveira was called up by Cowdrey as a reserve on account of his bowling. On the day before the game, one of the England batsmen, Roger Prideaux, withdrew from the team, saying he had an infection. The team was duly re-arranged and the new version included D'Oliveira as a batsman. He heard no more from Oosthuizen, who was transferred from the London office soon after. The intervention of Oosthuizen became public knowledge when it was reported in the press in April 1969.\n\nFeeling much more confident, D'Oliveira expected to be successful in the Oval Test match. Before the game, an unnamed MCC official circulated a story that D'Oliveira had been offered thousands of pounds to keep himself available for the South Africa tour. This was a similar story to that which D'Oliveira had told Oosthuizen; it had probably travelled back to the MCC via South Africa, but was not true. When the game began, Australia held a 1–0 lead after four Tests; England needed a win to level the series. England made a reasonable start on the first day, but a late wicket brought D'Oliveira in to bat with the game delicately poised. Oborne observes that D'Oliveira was under huge pressure, both for simple cricketing reasons and because the world was watching to see if he would be successful. \"Wisden\" reported: \"In the last hour D'Oliveira began his fine effort. He hooked the short ball superbly\". At the end of the first day, he had scored 23 runs.\n\nEarly on the second day, D'Oliveira batted with less certainty. He was dropped by the opposition wicket-keeper with his score on 31, but he was encouraged by the umpire Charlie Elliott and his batting partner John Edrich. As his score reached fifty, Elliott whispered, \"Well played—my God you're going to cause some problems.\" D'Oliveira went on to score 158 runs before he was out, although he was dropped a few more times after passing three figures. He received a prolonged ovation from the crowd when he was out, and congratulations from John Gleeson, one of the opposing Australians. Oborne assesses the innings as one of the best ever: despite the relatively weak attack and easy batting conditions, Oborne believes that no other cricketer had faced so much pressure and so many outside forces conspiring against him. Later in the game, D'Oliveira also contributed with the ball. After rain had reduced the amount of playing time and caused further delays through the subsequent clean-up, England faced a race against time to win the match. D'Oliveira took a crucial wicket with his 12th ball to break a long partnership and open the way for Derek Underwood to bowl England to victory in the game and a share in the series.\n\nOff the field, manoeuvres started immediately. Vorster followed the innings closely, with Oosthuizen in attendance. On the second day of the match, Geoffrey Howard, the secretary of Surrey County Cricket Club (who played at the Oval), received a call from Oosthuizen, who informed Howard that he had been trying without success to contact Billy Griffith. He told Howard to pass along to Griffith the message that if \"today's centurion is picked, the tour will be off\". Meanwhile, Insole asked D'Oliveira if he was available to tour South Africa, and Cowdrey questioned him about how he would handle the inevitably tense situations. Cowdrey also said that he wanted him in the team. D'Oliveira was left in little doubt that he would be selected to tour South Africa.\n\nThe selectors, after a six-hour meeting, chose the team to tour South Africa on 27 August 1968. The official records of the meeting are incomplete and of those present, no one left an account of what happened. Oborne believes that at least ten men were present—the four selectors, Insole, Peter May, Don Kenyon and Alec Bedser; the England captain Colin Cowdrey; Gubby Allen, Billy Griffith, Arthur Gilligan and Donald Carr for the MCC; and possibly Maurice Allom, another MCC member. Oborne suggests that one of those present might have been acting for the South African government, as Vorster was well-informed about what happened at the meeting and followed events closely. He also observes that, of those present, Allen, Griffith and Gilligan knew from the Cobham letter what would happen if D'Oliveira were selected; he argues that they may have passed the information on to other selectors. Coy, who had been at the Lord's Test, may also have made the South African position clear at the meeting. According to Oborne, \"Everyone in the room, with the possible exception of the Worcestershire skipper Don Kenyon, would have been aware that the selection of D'Oliveira could at best cause difficulties and at worst cause the tour to be cancelled.\" Fraser-Sampson goes further, suggesting that Insole, and possibly also May, knew the whole story from an early stage.\n\nFrom a cricketing viewpoint, most critics agreed that D'Oliveira should probably have been selected based on his score at the Oval, his past record, and the usefulness of his bowling. The selectors left him out, however, deciding that his bowling was not strong enough to classify him as an all-rounder. Oborne points out that, judged in cricketing terms, this was \"not an outrage\". D'Oliveira had several rivals as a batsman, and of the places available, one went to Ken Barrington, who had a good Test record, and the other to Keith Fletcher, who was much younger than D'Oliveira. Oborne judges both of these decisions fair. Nobody at the selection meeting supported including D'Oliveira. Some of those present said later that, despite his prior assurances to D'Oliveira, Cowdrey opposed his selection at the meeting, which influenced others there. Fraser-Sampson suggests that Cowdrey, who later tried to justify his role in events, may have inwardly supported D'Oliveira's inclusion, but spoken against it out of a lack of confidence and decisiveness. It is also possible, argues Fraser-Sampson, that if May had been aware of the true state of affairs, he may have confided in Cowdrey, a close friend; this would have left Cowdrey, who was very keen to lead a team to South Africa, in a difficult and conflicted position. Fraser-Sampson concludes: \"Far from being the villain of the piece, Cowdrey may simply have been an honourable man pushed beyond the limits of his character and overwhelmed by events.\"\n\nAs is customary at such selection meetings, there was no vote. Insole recalled that there was no hostility towards D'Oliveira at the meeting, and pointed out that although he was not chosen in the main team, he was made a reserve. Williams, while acknowledging that there were several worthy batsmen as candidates for places in the team, asserts that even if those at the meeting had only discussed the players' respective cricketing abilities, \"every selector must have known that by not selecting D'Oliveira they would improve the prospects of the tour going ahead.\" The full MCC Committee met to formally approve the selected team on the afternoon of 28 August. Nobody voiced opposition.\n\nD'Oliveira, who learned of his omission over the radio in the Worcestershire dressing room having just scored 128 runs against Sussex, was deeply upset and faced intense press attention. Insole and Griffith defended the decision to omit D'Oliveira to the press, saying that there had been no pressure from South Africa and that the chosen team simply included better players than D'Oliveira. Oborne writes that Insole considered the events surrounding the selection meeting as among the worst of his life, but that \"he and the other selectors were victims of the decision, reached on the advice of Alec Douglas-Home early in 1968, not to press for an answer to the MCC demand there should be 'no preconditions' for the tour. Once that decision had been made, everything else followed: the bribery attempt, the secret pressure and the nobbling of the MCC. Had the matter been dealt with ... Insole would never have been subject to the innuendo and accusations of racism and betrayal that have haunted him ever since.\"\n\nWhile the general public were baffled that a man who just scored a century against Australia could be left out of the team, the English cricketing press were divided on the decision. Some journalists supported the MCC on cricketing grounds, including the cricket correspondents of \"The Times\" and \"The Daily Telegraph\". Others, prominently the former England captain Ted Dexter, the former Test player Trevor Bailey and E. W. Swanton, all of whom generally sided with the cricket establishment, contended that D'Oliveira deserved to be in the team on merit. Swanton said he had received no letters which actually agreed with the omission. Other commentators, such as the Worcestershire club secretary and the former West Indies Test player Learie Constantine, openly stated that D'Oliveira was omitted either because of his race or because the MCC supported apartheid. Some Labour politicians also expressed concern. John Arlott, while asserting that D'Oliveira deserved to be included, suggested that to demonstrate opposition to apartheid, the MCC should perhaps have selected him even if this were not the case. The general press took a wider view, with several newspaper columns reporting that the decision appeared to have been made to avoid offending the South African government. According to Williams, the public positions held by much of the MCC committee towards South Africa led to suspicions that D'Oliveira may have been left out simply to save the tour.\n\nMore recent commentators suggest that the MCC members were not directly motivated by support of apartheid. Oborne argues that the MCC establishment, without favouring apartheid, wished to maintain traditional links with white South Africa. Williams suggests that the committee were politically naive, and that they ignored the political dimensions of D'Oliveira's non-selection. Williams writes that the committee seemed unaware that its decision made it appear to support apartheid. Fraser-Sampson believes that those involved \"acted for what they thought were the best of motives, namely what they saw as the good of the game.\" Regarding the right-wing links of some individuals—Gilligan had been a member of the British Fascists during the 1920s, and Bedser later became a member of the Freedom Association, which Fraser-Sampson classifies as \"far-right\"—neither Oborne nor Fraser-Sampson suggests that the two men were racist, or that any of the selectors' actions regarding D'Oliveira were tainted by prejudice or support for apartheid. Fraser-Sampson does comment, however, that some individuals were \"apologists\" for Vorster, and that many of them firmly believed in the separation of politics and sport.\n\nNot all MCC members supported the selectors. Around 70 members met, including the clergyman and former England captain David Sheppard, and called for the tour to be abandoned. Sheppard's intervention shook Cowdrey, a religious man. Within weeks, several MCC members had resigned in protest at the decision, and the MCC had received nearly 1,000 letters about it, mainly complaints. In South Africa, whites received the news happily—one nationalist rally broke into cheers upon hearing the news—while the black community viewed the omission as a betrayal. The British Anti-Apartheid Movement sent telegrams to the Prime Minister Harold Wilson, asking him to intervene, and to Gilligan, asking for the tour to be cancelled on the grounds that by playing in South Africa the England team would be \"condoning apartheid\". D'Oliveira received many letters of support from the public. He also received sympathetic letters from Cowdrey, Insole, Griffith and Cobham. He responded with a burst of good form, and was not drawn into publicly criticising the MCC, even offering the team his support. He signed a contract to cover the tour for the \"News of the World\" newspaper, which drew criticism from other newspapers and shook Vorster. At the time, non-whites were not allowed into South African press boxes other than \"in a menial capacity\"—Vorster suggested that D'Oliveira may not even be allowed on the tour as a journalist.\n\nOne of the MCC team, Tom Cartwright, had been struggling with an injury. He had considered withdrawing from the tour on moral grounds, owing to his reservations about involvement with the apartheid government. There are different versions of what actually happened. According to Cowdrey, Cartwright played without discomfort on 14 September, passed a fitness test the following day, and suddenly withdrew after an overnight reaction to his exertions, prompting the selectors to take only ten minutes to choose D'Oliveira as a replacement. Fraser-Sampson records that Cartwright actually had two fitness tests, owing to pre-existing concerns over his health; the selectors tried to persuade him not to pull out, with Cowdrey particularly insistent, but Cartwright was adamant. On 16 September, he withdrew from the MCC team, citing his injury. D'Oliveira was duly called up, a decision announced the following day. Despite having been rejected as a bowler at the earlier meeting, he was now replacing a bowler in the team; the selectors stated that D'Oliveira's bowling might prove useful. Oborne's assessment of the decision is that \"they had had enough and were bowing to public opinion.\" Williams comments that the belated addition of D'Oliveira in the wake of outcry at his exclusion confirmed in the minds of many that politics had been involved in the team selection. Denis Howell felt the need to state publicly that the decision was the MCC's alone, and that there had been no pressure from the UK government. D'Oliveira was pleased but suspected that the tour would no longer go ahead.\n\nIn South Africa, Vorster heard that D'Oliveira had been added to the team shortly before addressing the Orange Free State National Party congress at Bloemfontein on 17 September. He immediately announced that the English team would not be allowed into South Africa if it included D'Oliveira. He told the gathering that while \"we are and always have been prepared to play host to the MCC ... [we] are not prepared to receive a team thrust upon us by people whose interests are not the game, but to gain certain political objectives which they do not even attempt to hide\". To loud applause, he went on to describe the revised MCC team as \"not the team of the MCC but the team of the Anti-Apartheid Movement, the team of SANROC [the South African Non-Racial Olympic Committee] and the team of Bishop Reeves [a critic of apartheid].\" Vorster expressed similar sentiments elsewhere, accusing the MCC of making a purely political decision. He insisted that he \"had taken a decision for South Africa\". The South African press was mostly critical of Vorster, warning that his stand might lead to the country's exclusion from international sport, but Professor Bruce Murray comments that the MCC's initial exclusion of D'Oliveira, only to then include him instead of a bowler, had given Vorster some ammunition to claim that the MCC selection was politically charged. Including D'Oliveira from the start would, by contrast, have forced Vorster to reveal that his plan to allow mixed teams was false.\n\nIn England, Griffith responded that the tour would be cancelled were D'Oliveira not allowed to play, and that he was in the team on merit having missed selection first time around by \"a bee's whisker\". Cowdrey, meanwhile, proposed flying to South Africa himself to safeguard the tour but the South African minister Ben Schoeman said that D'Oliveira had been chosen because of politics and that South Africa would make no deal to let him play. Coy and Cheetham flew secretly to London to try to find a compromise. They held a four-hour meeting with the MCC committee on 24 September, directly after which the committee announced that \"the side selected to represent MCC in South Africa is not acceptable for reasons beyond the control of the SACA. The MCC committee therefore decided unanimously that the tour will not take place.\" Williams argues that the delay in cancelling the tour suggests that some in the MCC might still have hoped to find common ground with the South Africans. D'Oliveira briefly considered withdrawing from the team to save the series, but decided not to.\n\nSheppard and other MCC rebels called a Special General Meeting of the MCC; they wanted the MCC to state publicly that the team selection had been mishandled and that no further cricket should take place with South Africa until cricket there had been made non-racial. Before the meeting took place, the General Committee met the rebels and initially claimed that it would have been inappropriate to ask South Africa about D'Oliveira before the tour—although they had done so. The committee then admitted writing a letter but said that they had never received a reply. The Special General Meeting took place in December 1968, but the rebels were outvoted by the other members; Sheppard was criticised by members at the meeting, and his former friend Peter May refused to talk to him afterwards. Those opposing Sheppard suggested that he opposed apartheid whereas the committee wanted to advance cricket. It was also suggested that the MCC should not act as the conscience of Great Britain. Williams suggests that the vote indicated that a high proportion of the MCC favoured maintaining cricketing links with South Africa despite knowing that South African cricket operated racial segregation.\n\nComing just after New Zealand abandoned their 1967 rugby tour over South Africa's refusal to accommodate a mixed team, the cancellation of the 1968–69 MCC series over D'Oliveira marked the second such incident in two years. According to Oborne, the affair forced upon South African cricket a realisation that it had to change. In 1969, the South African Cricket Board of Control (SACBOC) announced that future teams would be racially integrated and selected purely on merit; efforts duly began to allow all races to compete against each other and share facilities. This led to some disagreement among non-white sports organisations between those who supported these incremental changes and those who wanted immediate disbanding of the old system. D'Oliveira, a member of the first group, was partly drawn into this conflict. He also faced criticism from those in South Africa and England who believed that, to oppose apartheid, he should have declared himself unavailable to tour in the first place. With the tour to South Africa cancelled, the MCC hastily arranged for its team to play a Test series in Pakistan instead. D'Oliveira played and was very successful. He remained an England regular for four more years and played for Worcestershire until 1979.\n\nIn 1969, many of the events from the previous year became public knowledge, including the deceptions of Allen, Griffith and Gilligan. The MCC committee met and granted retrospective approval to the actions of the four men. Griffith's offer to resign was declined. The press outcry of 1968 was not repeated; Fraser-Sampson speculates that the MCC may have applied pressure to journalists. Griffith and Allen later received honours from the British government.\n\nControversy continued to flare in Britain and other countries regarding sporting links with South Africa. The South Africa rugby team's 1969–70 tour of Britain and Ireland was accompanied by mass demonstrations against apartheid, including an attempt by a protester in London to hijack the South African team bus, and a demonstration in Dublin where people tried to stop the South Africans from reaching the match venue by lying down in the middle of the street. The South Africa cricket team was due to tour England shortly afterwards, and the MCC remained keen for the series to go ahead. They cancelled the tour a week before the South Africans were due to arrive, following public protests and pressure from the UK government. Virulent anti-apartheid demonstrations in Australia during the South Africa rugby team's 1971 tour led to soaring police costs, matches played behind fences and barbed wire, and a state of emergency in Queensland, all of which prompted the Australian Cricket Board to cancel the tour by the South Africa cricket team that had been scheduled to follow.\n\nSouth Africa was thereafter almost totally isolated from international cricket, but not from rugby. The Australian Rugby Union severed ties with South Africa after the turbulent 1971 series, but its counterparts in New Zealand, France and the Home Nations retained links into the 1980s. With Māori and Samoan players officially designated \"honorary whites\" by the South African government, mixed-race New Zealand rugby teams toured South Africa in 1970 and 1976. The SACBOC formally integrated South African cricket in 1976, but enduring overseas opposition to South Africa's internal governance meant that the country did not play official international cricket again until 1991, after the start of the process to dismantle apartheid.\n\n"}
{"id": "28703596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28703596", "title": "Diplomatic uniform", "text": "Diplomatic uniform\n\nDiplomatic uniforms are ornate uniforms worn by diplomats—ambassadorial and consular officers—at public occasions. Introduced by European states around 1800 and patterned on court dress, they were abandoned by most countries in the twentieth century, but diplomats from some countries retain them for rare, formal occasions.\n\nUp until the 18th century, diplomats (who usually belonged to the high nobility) wore their own court clothing to solemn occasions. Diplomatic uniforms were first introduced by France in 1781 and widely adopted by other European states around 1800 in the course of administrative reforms undertaken as a response to the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars. In several countries, diplomatic uniforms were among the first civilian uniforms to be adopted. Apart from saving diplomats (who now increasingly were not independently wealthy) the expense of maintaining a full court wardrobe, diplomatic uniforms served to emphasize the importance of the office and to deemphasize the person of its holder.\n\nSeveral non-European courts adopted European-style diplomatic uniforms during the 19th century. Notably, Japan during the Meiji Revolution introduced European uniforms instead of traditional clothing for all officials in 1872. The Ottoman court was another non-European court that adopted the uniforms, which were introduced during the Tanzimat period. The final period during which the majority of diplomatic services retained formal uniforms for the accredited members of their overseas missions was that prior to World War II. A detailed study of contemporary uniforms, both military and civil, published in 1929 gives descriptions of the diplomatic uniforms still being worn by representatives of the majority of states then in existence. These included most European nations and a number of Latin American and Asian countries. It is however noted that several states which had only been created following World War I, had not adopted diplomatic uniforms and that others had discarded them. The uniforms described are nearly all of the traditional style of bicorne hat and tailcoat with braiding according to grade, from third secretaries to ambassadors. Consular staff were less likely to have authorised uniforms than their diplomatic colleagues and where consular uniforms existed they were generally of simpler style. As an example, the British Consular Service had silver braiding rather than the gold of diplomats.\n\nWhile most countries abandoned diplomatic uniforms at some time during the 20th century, several long-established foreign services have retained them for wear by senior staff on ceremonial occasions such as the formal presentation of credentials by ambassadors. A photo of the 2001 New Year's reception at the Vatican shows the ambassadors of Monaco, the Netherlands, Thailand, the United Kingdom, Spain, France, and Belgium all clad in diplomatic uniform.\n\nDiplomatic uniforms generally followed 19th century court fashion and usually included a tailcoat with standing collar, breeches or pantaloons, a sword and a two-cornered plumed hat (\"bicorne\"). There were normally at least two versions, a dress uniform for ceremonial events and a simpler version for less formal occasions which nevertheless required the use of uniform dress. Unlike their military and naval counterparts, diplomats did not wear uniforms for everyday purposes but substituted the appropriate civilian clothing.\n\nDiplomatic uniforms were usually richly embroidered with gold similar to the uniforms of high court officials. Diplomatic rank was distinguished by the amount and quality of the embroidery. In contrast to military uniforms, which underwent rapid changes throughout the 19th and early 20th century, the diplomatic uniforms tended to keep their traditional design. While the uniforms of the different foreign services generally shared the common features noted above, there were considerable national differences, though often of minor detail. \n\nThus, as examples, French ambassadors were distinguished by pearl-handled court swords with gold and silk frogs (sword attachments), their Portuguese colleagues by oak leaves and acorns represented in gold embroidery on their dress coats, while Norwegian diplomats wore gold embroidery of pine cone design on their dark blue \"swallow-tail\" coats. Belgian diplomats of all ranks had \"royal blue\" tail coats and retained the 18th century fashion of white breeches and stockings with low shoes. Today, Belgian diplomats wear blue and gold waist sashes, Spanish diplomats red cuffs on their dark blue tail-coats, and Danish diplomats distinctive red coats.\n\nIn 1817, Prussian diplomats received as uniforms dark blue tail coats with cuffs and a standing collar of black velvet, decorated with oak leaf scrolls embroidered in gold. In 1888, the German Empire introduced the \"Altbrandenburgischer Waffenrock\", a long military-style coat, as the general state uniform for high-ranking officials. Military uniform was worn instead of court uniform by military officers and by those political figures who were reserve officers, which included most diplomats: it was practically impossible under the Empire for one to be a civil servant or a state secretary of ministerial rank without also being a reserve officer.\n\nDiplomatic uniforms were abandoned under the Weimar Republic, but the Nazi regime, which had a general fondness for uniforms, reintroduced them. The stage designer Benno von Arent designed the \"startling\" Nazi diplomatic uniform, consisting of a dark blue tailcoat whose modern lapels were embroidered with silver oak leaves, a silver sash, a silver aiguillette and a small dagger.\n\nIn 1834, the Russian Empire introduced diplomatic uniforms. As worn until 1917 these were of dark green (almost black) cloth with bicorn hats and braiding according to rank. Regulations introduced in 1904 specified six variations of the dark green uniform, depending on the nature of the occasion for which it was worn. These included plain uniforms without gold braid for office wear, plus white knee breeches and stocking for court functions when royalty were present. Peaked caps and epaulettes of military style were specified for street wear or informal occasions when the bicorn or braided tailcoat was considered unsuitable.\n\nAfter the Russian revolution, a document entitled \"Short Instruction on Adhering to the Accepted Bourgeois Society Etiquette Rules\" by the People's Commissariat for Foreign Affairs (NKID) instructed the revolutionary diplomats to wear jackets on formal occasions. From 1923 to 1924, Moscow newspapers debated whether the wearing of civilian Western dress and thereby \"bourgeois society symbols, which are totally alien to the spirit of the Workers' and Peasants' State\" was appropriate, and there were calls for a Soviet diplomatic uniform to be introduced.\n\nBut it was not until 1943 that a uniform was introduced for NKID staff, consisting of a three-piece uniform suit with gold-plated buttons and shoulder straps. The everyday uniform was grey and the dress uniform, which included a dagger, was black. Accoutrements included a coat, raincoat, hat and an ornate cap with the diplomatic insignia. The black dress uniform was similar to the Nazi SS uniform; the Soviet diplomat Victor Israelyan recounted that during World War II he was once given the Hitler salute and a loud \"Heil Hitler!\" by a German prisoner of war who mistook him for an SS officer.\n\nThe wearing of uniform by all Soviet diplomats on formal occasions was officially discontinued in 1954; thereafter only ambassadors continued to wear the dress uniform, without the dagger, on special occasions. Senior officials of the Soviet Foreign Ministry still wore a double-breasted black uniform (or white for the ones assigned in a country with a tropical climate) with gold braided cuffs and collar patches when attending credential presentations by foreign ambassadors, as late as the 1980s. Following the breakup of the Soviet Union these uniforms ceased to be worn in 1991, though they were not formally abolished. In 2001 a black diplomatic uniform was re-introduced resembling the former Soviet model except for new insignia and blue-green collar patches. Russia now maintains such uniforms for rare occasions.\n\nBritish diplomats wore the official court uniform consisting of a dark blue button-down high-collar jacket with gold oak-leaf embroidery on the collar, chest, cuffs and long tails; white breeches were worn, or else dark blue trousers with gold stripes, and a cocked hat edged with white ostrich plumes. A white uniform, with similar but detachable panels of gold embroidery on the collar and cuffs, was worn in tropical postings.\n\nAmbassadors wore '1st class' court uniform, with additional gold embroidery on the sleeve and back seams. More junior officers wore different classes of uniform with simplified braiding on cuffs and collars only, as specified for their rank or appointment, (the classes of uniform were differentiated by varying widths of gold embroidery). Members of the Consular Service wore court uniforms with silver braiding according to rank, in contrast to the gold of diplomatic officers. The King's or Queen's Foreign Service Messengers were entitled to 5th class court uniform, upgraded to 4th class in 1929. \n\nUntil about 1965 Foreign Office Regulations and Consular Instructions had required even junior foreign service officers to acquire this formal dress, following completion of their probation period. However, by the end of the 20th century the use of this uniform had greatly diminished.\n\nToday within Her Majesty's Diplomatic Service Heads of Mission (Ambassadors, High Commissioners, etc.) and their deputies retain a simplified Diplomatic Uniform for wear on formal occasions such as the presentation of credentials (and then only when accredited to certain countries). As worn by Deputy Heads of Mission, the uniform consists of a dark blue single-breasted tail coat, lined with black silk, with gilt buttons; the stand collar and gauntlet cuffs are faced with black velvet and edged with gilt braiding; this is worn with dark trousers or skirt, a bicorn hat, white gloves and a gold-mounted sword. Heads of Mission have, in addition, gold embroidery on the collar and cuffs, gold stripes on the trousers and a white ostrich-feather edging to the hat. This form of uniform was introduced in the 1950s.\n\nAmerican diplomats were first issued uniforms for the mission concluding the 1814 Treaty of Ghent; these consisted of a blue gold-embroidered coat, white breeches and stockings, a sword and a cocked hat with a black cockade. U.S. diplomats routinely designed and wore uniforms of their own choosing until 1817, when the State Department formally prescribed a uniform for ministers based on the one issued for the Ghent mission. This uniform was recommended for use by all ministers abroad by then Secretary of State John Quincy Adams in 1823.\n\nThe Jackson administration simplified the uniform in 1829, which now consisted of a black coat with a gold star on each side of the collar, black or white breeches, a three-cornered chapeau de bras (i.e., a foldable tricorne hat), a black cockade and eagle, and a steel-mounted sword with white scabbard. This uniform was not mandatory, and some officials wore more brilliant uniforms according to their own taste. In 1853, Secretary of State William L. Marcy issued a circular recommending that U.S. diplomats wear “the simple dress of an American citizen.”\n\nIn response to what was perceived as the excessive ostentatiousness of some of these individualized uniforms, Congress banned diplomatic uniforms altogether in 1867, by passing a resolution forbidding diplomatic officials to wear \"any uniform or official costume not previously authorized by Congress\". This caused some discomfort to American diplomats, who now had to appear \"underdressed\", in evening dress, to official functions. In 1910, Theodore Roosevelt attracted considerable attention when he was one of the few foreign representatives at the funeral of King Edward VII who was not in civil or military uniform.\n\nFor a period of time, U.S. diplomats and consular officers wore modified U.S. Navy uniforms, much as the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps continue to do so today. In 1937, President Franklin D. Roosevelt issued an executive order directing that no person in the diplomatic or consular service should wear a uniform or official costume not previously authorized by the United States Congress.\n\nWhile there has continued to be discussion on the idea of reintroducing uniforms for the U.S. Foreign Service, such as a modified U.S. Navy mess dress for formal occasions and presentation of credentials, such a change would require a law passed by Congress, since it is specified in the Foreign Service Act of 1946, section 1001, that \"no officer or employee\" of the Foreign Service was to \"wear any uniform except such as may be authorized by law.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "963070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=963070", "title": "Ferdinand Maria, Elector of Bavaria", "text": "Ferdinand Maria, Elector of Bavaria\n\nFerdinand Maria (31 October 1636 – 26 May 1679) was a Wittelsbach ruler of Bavaria and an elector (\"Kurfürst\") of the Holy Roman Empire from 1651 to 1679.\n\nHe was born in Munich. He was the eldest son of Maximilian I, Elector of Bavaria - whom he succeeded, and his second wife Maria Anna of Austria, daughter of the emperor Ferdinand II, Holy Roman Emperor. Born during the reign of his father, he was known as the Electoral Prince from birth. Through his mother, he was a first cousin of Queen Mariana of Spain as well as Leopold I, Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nOn 8 December 1650 he married Henriette Adelaide of Savoy, daughter of Victor Amadeus I, Duke of Savoy and Christine Marie of France. The couple had seven children, two of which would have progeny.\n\nStill a minor he succeeded his father in 1651, his mother was his guardian and his uncle Albert VI of Bavaria served as Prince Administrator of Bavaria for three years.\n\nFerdinand Maria was crowned on 31 October 1654. His absolutistic style of leadership became a benchmark for the rest of Germany. Though Ferdinand Maria allied with France he abstained the imperial crown in 1657 after the death of his uncle Ferdinand III, Holy Roman Emperor to avoid a conflict with the House of Habsburg. Ferdinand Maria supported the wars of the Habsburg against the Ottoman Empire with Bavarian auxiliary forces (1662–1664). During the Franco-Dutch War since 1672 Bavaria was officially neutral. Plans for a Bavarian colony near New York were discussed but soon abandoned.\n\nThe marriage of his eldest daughter Maria Anna Victoria and her cousin \"le Grand Dauphin\" in 1680 was the outcome of the Bavarian alliance with France. Ferdinand Maria was the great grandfather of French monarch King Louis XV.\n\nFerdinand Maria modernized the Bavarian army and introduced the first Bavarian local government code. The elector did much indeed to repair the wounds caused by the Thirty Years' War, encouraging agriculture and industries, and building or restoring numerous churches and monasteries. In 1669, moreover, he again called a meeting of the diet, which had been suspended since 1612. The electorate he left with a very wealthy treasury.\n\nHe died at the Old Schleissheim Palace and was succeeded by his son Maximilian II Emanuel. He was buried in the crypt of the Theatiner Church in Munich.\n\nFerdinand Maria married Princess Henriette Adelaide of Savoy in 1650; and with her, the Italian Baroque was introduced in Bavaria.\n\nThe Theatiner Church in Munich was built from 1663 onwards as a gesture of thanks for the birth of the long-awaited heir to the Bavarian crown, Prince Maximilian II Emanuel. After that in 1664, Ferdinand Maria and his wife commissioned the building of the Baroque style Nymphenburg Palace near Munich based on the designs of Italian architect Agostino Barelli. Lake Starnberg was purchased by Ferdinand Maria from the Horwarth family and it became the venue of numerous festivities of the court with the famous fleet of Venetian Gondolas. On the lake's shores, he ordered the construction of Berg Castle in 1676. The castle was used for festivities there and later reached its zenith when it became the scene of spectacular entertainments and hunts under the rule of his successors, Maximilian Emanuel and Emperor Charles VII. For the Munich Residenz, Ferdinand Maria ordered the creation of the Papal Rooms.\n\n\nIn addition, the Electress suffered three miscarriages: in June 1661, March 1664 and 1674.\n"}
{"id": "22280723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22280723", "title": "German Socialist Labour Party of Poland", "text": "German Socialist Labour Party of Poland\n\nThe German Socialist Labour Party of Poland (, abbreviated DSAP, ) was a political party organizing German Social Democrats in interbellum Poland.\n\nNominally, the DSAP was founded at a conference in Chorzów on August 9, 1925, through the merger of the Silesia/West Prussia-based German Social Democratic Party of Poland (DSPP) and the Łódź-based German Labour Party of Poland (DAP). The merger wasn't fully effective though, and in practice the two parties continued separate existences until the merger was finalized until 1929.\n\nAn 'Executive of the DSAP' was formed after the nominal founding of the party, consisting of Siegmund Glücksmann, Johann Kowoll, Buchwald, Kociolek, Ludwig Kuk, Klim, Arthur Pankrantz and Emil Zerbe. \"Kattowitzer Volkswille\" was assigned as the central party organ. One of the first actions of the party executive was the publication of the 'Manifesto of the united 'DSAP\".\n\nDSAP became the second largest party in the 1927 Lodz city council election, trailing behind the Polish Socialist Party (PPS). DSAP got 16,643 votes and seven seats in the council. In central Poland the municipal elections showed the strength of the party in the region; in total DSAP had 36 city councilors and 7 magistrate members in the area. In 1928 the party claimed to have 8,406 members, out of whom 2,500 were women. The youth wing of the party had around 1,200 members, out of whom 480 were women. The party had an educational organization, \"Bund für Arbeiterbildung\" (6,000 members) and a children's organization, \"Kinderfreudegruppen\" (300 members).\n\nIn June 1928 the Bydgoszcz branch of the party had broken away, forming a separate German Social Democratic Party of Poland.\n\nIn Silesia, the situation was somewhat different from in central Poland. In Upper Silesia, the party did not fare too well in municipal polls. In the 1929 city council election in Katowice, the party mustered to get two seats. In Bielsko, the result was better for the party in local elections. In the 1929 city council election the party won eight seats (in alliance with the PPS).\n\nOn October 6–7, 1929, a conference was held in Lodz which completed the task of unification of the DSAP set up at Chorzów four years earlier. The conference finally decided to locate the DSAP headquarters to Lodz (an issue that had been a bone of contention for years). \"Lodzer Volkszeitung\" was declared as the central party organ. Several representatives of the Labour and Socialist International and socialist parties participated as guests to the Lodz conference, including the SPD leader Johannes Stelling, the PPS chairman Herman Diamand, the leader of the Jewish Bund Henryk Ehrlich.\n\nIn October 1930, DSAP suffered another split, as the leftist Heinrich Scheibler broke away and formed the German Socialist Labour Party in Poland – Left (DSAP-Linke). Scheibler was able to take parts of the party organization in the Łódź area with him.\n\nDSAP was fiercely opposed to the pro-National Socialist Young German Party (JdP), which had its base in Bielsko. The rise in popularity of National Socialism amongst the Germans in Poland would prove disastrous for the DSAP. In Upper Silesia, support for the party rapidly eroded after the 1933 Machtübernahme. \nIn September–October 1933 DSAP joined the call initiated by the Bund for boycott of goods from Germany, in protest of the Hitler regime. The boycott call became controversial within DSAP, and some members (such as \nArthur Kronig, Otto Heike, Ludwig Kuk and Gustav Ewald) left the party as a result.\nIn 1932 the DSAP had 5,429 members in Upper Silesia. By 1937 the number had declined to 560. As of early 1936, the party had only three functioning branches in Upper Silesia, Katowice, Chorzów and Bielszowice. The Bielszowice branch went defunct before the end of the year, though. By March 1937, the remainder of the DSAP branch in Chorzów joined the PPS.\n\nOn August 26, 1939, DSAP signed the joint statement of socialist parties in Poland, calling for the people to fight against Hitlerism (other signatories included the Bund).\n\nThe party was a member of the Labour and Socialist International between 1923 and 1940.\n"}
{"id": "47623471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47623471", "title": "Hardik Patel", "text": "Hardik Patel\n\nHardik Patel (born 20 July 1993) is an Indian social activist who participated and led the Patidar reservation agitation.\n\nHardik Patel was born on 20 July 1993 in a Gujarati Patel family to Bharat and Usha Patel. In 2004 his parents moved to Viramgam, a town 11 km away, to give their children a better education. Hardik studied from Class VI to Class VIII at Divya Jyot School in Viramgam, before moving to K B Shah Vinay Mandir, where he studied until Class XII. He was a poor student and a cricket enthusiast.\n\nAfter completing Class XII, Hardik started helping his father, Bharat, to run a small business of fixing submersible pumps in underground water wells. Bharat, a former BJP worker, met then Chief Minister of Gujarat and herself a member of the Patidar caste, Anandiben Patel, when she held the Mandal assembly seat, in which Viramgam falls.\n\nIn 2010, Patel joined Sahajanand College, Ahmedabad and earned a Bachelor of Commerce (B. Com.) degree. He ran for the post of general secretary of the college students' union and was elected unopposed. While still in college, Patel opened a potable water stand at the Viramgam Bus Stand as an act of social service. In 2013, \"he graduated from college, after^ two ^attempts, with less than 50% marks\"!.\n\nOn 31 October 2012 Hardik Patel joined the Sardar Patel Group (SPG), a Patidar youth body, and within less than a month, became president of its Viramgam unit. Interaction with its 50,000 strong membership revealed that Patidar youth faced challenges while securing private sector jobs because of a slow economy, while they were shut out of government jobs because of reservation quotas and the expectation of bribes. He found that some Patidar farmers saw their agriculture land acquired for urbanization and industrialization, while Patidar businessmen faced failure of their traditional businesses due to competition from online retailers. He discovered that the diamond industry, a traditional source of wealth and employment for the Patidars, was in limbo. More than 20,000 small firms had shut down and thousands of unemployed Patel diamond cutters and polishers had returned to their villages.\n\nIn 2015, Hardik Patel was ousted from his post with the SPG after a conflict with its leader, Lalji Patel.\n\nIn July 2015 Patel's sister, \"Monica, failed to qualify for a state government scholarship. Patel was upset when a friend of Monica's qualified for the same\" scholarship through the Other Backward Class (OBC) quota even though she had scored lower marks. Recognizing that affirmative policies were benefiting other castes but not Patidars, Patel formed the Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) which claim itself as an apolitical organization that aims to get Patidars included in the OBC quota.\n\nUsing social media to spread his message and gather supporters, Patel addressed his first rally in Visnagar, Gujarat on 6 July 2015. Since then, he has organized several rallies across Gujarat, drawing millions of people through his oratorical skills.\n\nOn 25 August 2015, a large number of Patidars from all over Gujarat gathered at GMDC ground, Ahmedabad for a rally. Patel declared the day as \"Patidar Kranti Diwas\" (Patidar Revolution Day). That evening, he was briefly arrested by Ahmedabad City Police when he went on fast after a rally held earlier in the day had dispersed. He was charged under section 151 of Indian Penal Code for 'knowingly joining or continuing in assembly of five or more persons after it has been commanded to disperse'. Violent protests broke out in response, forcing the Gujarat state government to impose a curfew and call in the Indian Army.\n\nOn 31 August 2015, he addressed a gathering of Gujjar and Kurmi communities from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. On 23 September 2015, Patel surfaced after a brief disappearance, claiming that had been \"abducted\" by people with weapons.\n\nOn 9 September 2015 Patel, launched Patel Navnirman Sena (PNS) and announced a major stir across India. PNS was established with the aim to bring Patels (Patidars) and affiliated communities such as Kurmis and Gujjars under one platform to press for their demand for reservation in government jobs and education under the OBC category.\n\nOn 18 October 2015, Patel was booked for insulting the \"Tiranga\", the National Flag of India, in a case registered in Rajkot. He was briefly detained for trying to disrupt the one-day international (ODI) cricket match between India and South Africa. On 19 October 2015, Patel was booked in Surat under the charges of sedition over alleged remarks about 'killing cops'. Subsequently he was imprisoned. On 15 July 2016, Patel was granted bail on the condition that he would stay out of the state for six months and out of Mehsana for nine months. He moved to Udaipur for this period.\n\nIn February 2017, it was announced that Patel would lead the Shiv Sena's campaign in Gujarat. However, he later chose not to align with the Sena and instead backed the Indian National Congress.\n\nPatel's close aid Chirag Patel and Ketan Patel have alleged him of misusing Patidar community's fund for living a luxurious life. It is also alleged that he secretly meet with Indian National Congress then Vice President Rahul Gandhi. Both parties denied that this meeting happened. News of this meeting also sparked agitation within Patidar community and raised questions about his intentions and political ambitions\n\nIn November 2017, the alleged sex tapes of Patel was released on social media and went viral. Patel claimed that he was a victim of dirty politics and the video only proved that he isn't impotent.\n\nOn 25th of July, 2018 Patel along with two of his aides - Lalji Patel and AK Patel - were found guilty of rioting, arson, damage to property and unlawful assembly. The three were fined Rs. 50,000 apart from the two-year imprisonment, but were granted bail soon after the verdict.\n"}
{"id": "1446036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1446036", "title": "Hedonic regression", "text": "Hedonic regression\n\nIn real estate and property studies, the hedonic regression (P = f1, f2, f3, ..., fn) is often used to study the impact of a number of factors that affect housing prices \nIn economics, hedonic regression or hedonic demand theory is a revealed preference method of estimating demand or value. It breaks down the item being researched into its constituent characteristics, and obtains estimates of the contributory value of each characteristic. This requires that the composite good being valued can be reduced to its constituent parts and that the market values those constituent parts. Hedonic models are most commonly estimated using regression analysis, although more generalized models, such as sales adjustment grids, are special cases of hedonic models.\n\nAn attribute vector, which may be a dummy or panel variable, is assigned to each characteristic or group of characteristics. Hedonic models can accommodate non-linearity, variable interaction, or other complex valuation situations.\n\nHedonic models are commonly used in real estate appraisal, real estate economics, and consumer price index (CPI) calculations. In CPI calculations, hedonic regression is used to control the effect of changes in product quality. Price changes that are due to substitution effects are subject to hedonic quality adjustments.\n\nAlthough product characteristics are neither produced nor consumed in isolation, hedonic price models assume that the price of a product reflects embodied characteristics valued by some implicit or shadow prices. In empirical studies, these implicit characteristic prices are coefficients that relate prices and attributes in a regression model. Hedonic price regression models are estimated using secondary data on prices and attributes of different product or service alternatives. In working with longitudinal data, one adds period-specific dummies and uses their regression coefficients to estimate quality-adjusted price indices. In hedonic regression, independent variables typically include performance-related product and service attributes. Such product characteristics represent not only value to the user but also resource cost to the producer. It has been demonstrated however that prices in hedonic regression are not determined completely by technical factors and performance-related characteristics. Brand-name and market-segment effects can explain price distortions and premiums that are charged over and above any allowance made for differences in measurable product performance. \n\nCertain environmental services often influence the market prices. The Hedonic pricing method is often brought into play in order to assess the economic values of such services.\n\nThis method finds its application to reveal the effect of environmental attributes in changes in the local real estate pricing. It is frequently used for estimating costs related to:\n\n\nIt is important to note that the hedonic pricing method is based on the fact that prices of goods in a market are affected by their characteristics. For example, the price of a pair of pants will depend on the comfort, the cloth used, the brand, the fit, etc. So this method helps us estimate the value of a commodity based on people's willingness to pay for the commodity as and when its characteristics change.\n\nA particular example which is used most often is the real estate market, where the value of two different properties which are otherwise comparable will vary depending on the various environmental amenities present in the surrounding areas of these properties.\nIf there is a measurable price drop of properties located near a dump yard (as compared to other locations), the difference in the prices point towards the external cost of the dump yard. It is the marginal willingness to pay (in higher housing prices) for the given difference in cleanliness and serenity of the locality. Hedonic Regression methods are used to estimate these price differentials.\n\nThe Hedonic Pricing Method (HPM) as mentioned earlier is a form of revealed preference method of valuation and it uses surrogate markets to estimate the value of the environmental amenity.\n\nSurrogate market is a concept that one uses when one cannot directly estimate the market prices for certain environmental goods. Therefore, a similar good sold in the market is chosen as a proxy.\n\nFor example, if we want to know the value of clean air estimated by an individual, he may reveal his preference in the form of establishing his house in a clean society and paying an extra premium for the same. Thus, with the help of Hedonic Pricing Method, the environmental component of the value and the market price can be separated. In turn, this market price is used as a surrogate for the environmental value.\n\nIn real estate economics, hedonic pricing is used to adjust for the problems associated with researching a good that is as heterogeneous as buildings. Because buildings are so different, it is difficult to estimate the demand for buildings generically. Instead, it is assumed that a house can be decomposed into characteristics such as number of bedrooms, size of lot, or distance to the city center. A hedonic regression equation treats these attributes (or bundles of attributes) separately, and estimates prices (in the case of an additive model) or elasticity (in the case of a log model) for each of them. This information can be used to construct a price index that can be used to compare the price of housing in different cities, or to do time series analysis. As with CPI calculations, hedonic pricing can be used to correct for quality changes in constructing a housing price index. It can also be used to assess the value of a property, in the absence of specific market transaction data. It can also be used to analyze the demand for various housing characteristics, and housing demand in general. It has also been used to test assumptions in spatial economics.\n\nThe Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice, or USPAP, provides for mass appraisal standards to govern the use of hedonic regressions and other automated valuation models when used for real estate appraisal. Appraisal methodology treats the hedonic regression as essentially a statistically robust form of the sales comparison approach. Hedonic models are commonly used in tax assessment, litigation, academic studies, and other mass appraisal projects.\n\nWhile studying the application of the Hedonic Pricing Method, the first assumption made is the value of a house is affected by a particular combination of characteristics that it possesses given that properties with better qualities demand higher prices as compared to properties with lower qualities. This is the Hedonic Pricing Function.\n\nThe price of a house will thus be affected by the structural characteristics\nformula_1 of the house itself, characteristics of the locality/neighbourhood\nformula_2, and environmental characteristics\nformula_3.\n\nStructural Characteristics could be anything from size of the house, to the number of rooms, type of flooring, etc. Neighbourhood attributes include variables like posh-ness of the locality, quality of roads, etc. And the environmental characteristics are variables such quality of air, proximity to parks, beaches, dumping yards, etc.\n\nThe analysis takes place in two stages.\nThe first stage involves employing regression techniques to estimate the Hedonic Price Function of the property. This function will relate the prices of many properties in the same housing area to the different characteristics.\n\nSo the Price Function is of the form\n\nformula_4\n\nThis function could be linear or non-linear. The prices may change at an increasing or decreasing rate when the characteristics change.\n\nWhen you now differentiate the price function with respect to any one of the above characteristics, the implicit price function for that particular characteristic is yielded. It is considered implicit because the price function is indirectly revealed to us by what the people are willing to pay in order to obtain better quality or quantities of the characteristic.\n\nIn the second stage, these implicit prices are regressed against the actual quantities/qualities chosen by the people in order to attain the marginal willingness to pay for the amenity. The results of this analysis will indicate the changes in property values for a unit change in each characteristic, given that all the other characteristics are constant. Some variables however may be correlated. This will result in similar changes in their values.\n\n\n\nSome commentators, including Austrian economists, have criticized the US government's use of hedonic regression in computing its CPI, fearing it can be used to mask the true inflation rate and thus lower the interest it must pay on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) and Social Security cost of living adjustments.\n\nThe same use of hedonic models analyzing consumer prices in other countries has shown that non-hedonic methods may misstate inflation over time by failing to take quality changes into account.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13920", "title": "Homeland", "text": "Homeland\n\nA homeland ( \"country of origin\" and native land) is the concept of the place (cultural geography) with which an ethnic group holds a long history and a deep cultural association – the country in which a particular national identity began. As a common noun, homeland, it simply connotes the country of one's origin. When used as a proper noun, the Homeland, as well as its equivalents in other languages, often have ethnic nationalist connotations. A homeland may also be referred to as a \"fatherland\", a \"motherland\", or a \"mother country\", depending on the culture and language of the nationality in question.\n\n \nMotherland refers to a \"mother country\", i.e. the place of one's birth, the place of one's ancestors, the place of origin of an ethnic group or immigrant, or a Metropole in contrast to its colonies. People often refer to Mother Russia as a personification of the Russian nation. Within the British Empire, many natives in the colonies came to think of Britain as the mother country of one, large nation. India is often personified as Bharat Mata (Mother India). The French commonly refer to France as \"la mère patrie\"; Hispanic Americans and 19th century-upper-class Filipinos, commonly referred to Spain as \"la Madre Patria\".\n\nFatherland is the nation of one's \"fathers\" or \"forefathers\". It can be viewed as a nationalist concept, insofar as it relates to nations.\n\nThe term fatherland (\"Vaterland\") is used throughout German-speaking Europe, as well as in Dutch.\nFor example, \"Wien Neêrlands Bloed\", national anthem of the Netherlands between 1815 and 1932, makes extensive and conspicuous use of the parallel Dutch word.\n\nBecause of the use of \"Vaterland\" in Nazi-German war propaganda, the term \"Fatherland\" in English has become associated with domestic British and American anti-Nazi propaganda during World War II. This is not the case in Germany itself, where the word remains used in the usual patriotic contexts.\n\nTerms equating \"Fatherland\" in other Germanic languages:\n\nA corresponding term is often used in Slavic languages, in:\n\nIn Romance languages, a common way to refer to one's home country is \"Patria/Pátria/Patrie\" which has the same connotation as \"Fatherland\", that is, the nation of our parents/fathers (From the Latin, Pater, father). As \"patria\" has feminine gender, it is usually used in expressions related to one's mother, as in Italian \"la Madrepatria\", Spanish \"la Madre Patria\" or Portuguese \"a Pátria Mãe\" (Mother Fatherland).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56792748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56792748", "title": "Human rights in Guatemala", "text": "Human rights in Guatemala\n\nHuman rights is an issue in Guatemala. The establishment of the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala has helped the Attorney General prosecute extrajudicial killings and corruption. There remains widespread impunity for abusers from the Guatemalan Civil War, which ran from 1960 to 1996, and Human Rights Watch considers threats and violence against unionists, journalists and lawyers a major concern.\n\nA trial for eight former Army members on charges related to the alleged disappearances of 130 people whose bodies were found among 550 at a base now run by the UN called CREOMPAZ has been stalled since it began in 2016 due to witness intimidation, among other factors.\n\nAfter an ongoing war for over 36 years in Guatemala, the country of Guatemala began transitioning into a more stable and established democratic country. However following the war, corruption began appearing all around the country eventually engulfing the whole country with common crimes and chaos. In 2013, the crime rate increased to where there was roughly 6,000 homicides per year in Guatemala. These violent killings included deaths of women and children. While Guatemala was fighting toward ending the corruption, there were many high-level government officials who were involved in organized crime. This resulted in only about 2% of the violent crimes going to trial.In 2015, President Otto Pérez Molina, Vice President Roxana Baldetti, and other high officials lost their power and were prosecuted for participation in human rights violation.Efraín Ríos Montt, was the President of Guatemala during 2003-2012. Montt was convicted of the charges of genocide and was sentenced to 80-85 years in jail but this was soon over turned 10 days later. During his second trial Efrain Rios Montt died on April 1, 2018 at the age of 91.\n\nInternational Commission against Impunity in Guatemala organization was first established in December 12, 2005. After years of human rights violation in Guatemala, government officials began leading towards creating an established organization that would investigate the many variety of cases that were left unsolved. After getting the assistance from the United Nations, the government of Guatemala formulated an organization called Commission of Investigation of Illegal Bodies and Clandestine Security Apparatuses (CICIACS). The creation of this organization caused a controversy in Guatemala, which resulted in it being denied because the ruling deemed it to be a violation of the exclusive constitutional delegation of power to the Public Ministry.After being denied the government of Guatemala revised the document and the regulation of the CICIACS to eliminate all the unconstitutional issues that were brought to their attention from the constitutional court. When they were finished they re-introduced the proposition to the court and after the review the Constitutional court approved it. They renamed it International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG). The government of Guatemala and the United Nations signed it into order on December 12, 2005.\n\nAccording to the International Human Rights Law Group, the Guatemalan criminal justice system is to blame for the poor human rights Guatemala faces. Cerezo announced it would now be their responsibility.The Guatemalan criminal justice system is supposed to work with the court to punish those who violate human rights. With a system implemented to protect human rights in Guatemala the issue of these rights being violated remains (??). This is partly because the judges are not trained properly which can affect the investigation by causing them to be unreliable.The Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) was established in 2007 and itworks to break down corruption within the country.After a CICIG investigation the 2015 president, Cerezo collected bribes he was later arrested.Human rights violations continue to increase with the Guatemalan people as victims because of improper protections from the government.\n\nFourteen women were found victims of sexual abuse by two military officers and sentenced to prison. The two officers both have prior criminal history, one with triple homicide with three women and the other is responsible for the disappearance of the husband's to his female victims . In addition, the country's constitution does not protect LGBT rights and a bill proposed in 2017 bans students from learning about other sexual orientations and also bans same sex marriage.\n"}
{"id": "6564345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6564345", "title": "International incident", "text": "International incident\n\nAn international incident is a seemingly relatively small or limited action or clash that results in a wider dispute between two or more nation-states. International incidents can arise from unanticipated actions involving citizens, government officials, or armed units of one or more nation-states, or out of a deliberate but small provocative action by espionage agents of one nation-state, or by terrorists, against another nation-state.\n\nAn international incident usually arises during a time of relative peace between nation-states, and in general is, on the surface, an unexpected event. Conflicts that grow out of a series of escalating skirmishes between nation-states generally are not considered international incidents; however, terrorist actions can and often do become international incidents. However, historical views of past international incidents often reveal the incident was the flashpoint of a simmering conflict between nation-states, or organizations opposing nation-states.\n\nWars have often been provoked by international incidents, and diplomatic efforts to prevent international incidents from growing into full-scale armed conflicts often have been unsuccessful. In the aftermath of the First World War, the League of Nations was established to help nations who were parties to an international incident achieve a solution to the incident through diplomatic means. Initially, the League of Nations had some success in working to find diplomatic solutions, however the failure of the League of Nations to prevent World War II resulted in the disbandment of the League of Nations in favor of the United Nations. As with its predecessor, the United Nations provides a means by which nations involved in an international incident can work to resolve the matter diplomatically rather than through the use of force.\n\nThe term is also applied to various incidents that can disrupt international commerce, and to celebrities or other well-known people who commit gaffes or otherwise act inappropriately, causing the press and sometimes governments to criticize their actions.\n\nThe International Court of Justice keeps a list of legal disputes between nation-states, many of which result from international incidents. The Royal Mail of the United Kingdom keeps a list on its website of current international incidents that might disrupt mail service. The incidents listed may or may not conform to the definitions given above.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1112969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1112969", "title": "Jared Taylor", "text": "Jared Taylor\n\nSamuel Jared Taylor (born September 15, 1951) is a Japanese-born American white supremacist and editor of \"American Renaissance\", a white supremacist online magazine he founded in 1990. Taylor is also an author and the president of \"American Renaissance\"s parent organization, New Century Foundation, through which many of his books have been published. He is a former member of the advisory board of \"The Occidental Quarterly\" and a former director of the National Policy Institute, a Virginia-based white nationalist think tank. He is also a board member and spokesperson of the Council of Conservative Citizens.\n\nTaylor, like many of the organizations he is associated with, is often described as promoting racist ideologies by, among others, civil rights groups, news media, and academics studying racism in the U.S.\n\nTaylor was born on September 15, 1951, to Christian missionary parents in Kobe, Japan. He lived in Japan until he was 16 years old and attended Japanese public school up to the age of 12, becoming fluent in Japanese in the process.\n\nHe graduated from Yale University in 1973 with a BA in philosophy. He received an MA in international economics at the Paris Institute of Political Studies in 1978.\n\nTaylor worked as an international lending officer for the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation from 1978 to 1981, and as West Coast editor of \"PC Magazine\" from 1983 to 1988. He also worked in West Africa, and has traveled the area extensively. Taylor is fluent in French, Japanese and English. He also worked as a courtroom interpreter.\n\nIn 1983 he authored the book \"Shadows of the Rising Sun: A Critical View of the Japanese Miracle\", in which he wrote that Japan was not an appropriate economic or social model for the United States, and criticized the Japanese for excessive preoccupation with their own uniqueness.\n\nIn 1990 he founded and published the first issue of \"American Renaissance\", a white supremacist newsletter and website. In 1994 he created the New Century Foundation to help with the running of \"American Renaissance\".\n\nTaylor wrote \"Paved With Good Intentions\" (Carroll & Graf Publishers, 1993), a book on race-relations in the United States. In 1994, he was called by the defense team in a Fort Worth, Texas black-on-black murder trial, to give expert testimony on the race-related aspects of the case. Prior to testifying in the trial he called young black men \"the most dangerous people in America\" and added \"This must be taken into consideration in judging whether or not it was realistic for [the defendant] to think this was a kill-or-be-killed situation.\"\n\nTaylor has been described as a white nationalist, white supremacist, and racist by civil rights groups, news media, academics studying racism in the US, and others. Taylor has \"strenuously rejected\" being called a racist, and maintains that he is instead a \"racialist who believes in race-realism.\" He has also said he is not a white supremacist, describing himself as a \"white advocate\", and contends that his views on nationality and race are \"moderate, commonsensical, and fully consistent with the views of most of the great statesmen and presidents of America's past\".\n\nTaylor has often been described in media reports as associated with the alt-right.\n\nTaylor is a proponent of scientific racism and voluntary racial segregation. Taylor also asserts that there are racial differences in intelligence among the various ethno-racial groups across the world. Taylor argues that Blacks are generally less intelligent than Hispanics, while Hispanics are generally less intelligent than whites, and whites are generally less intelligent than East Asians: \"I think Asians are objectively superior to Whites by just about any measure that you can come up with in terms of what are the ingredients for a successful society. This doesn't mean that I want America to become Asian. I think every people has a right to be itself, and this becomes clear whether we're talking about Irian Jaya or Tibet, for that matter\".\n\nTaylor describes himself as an advocate for white interests. He states that his journal, \"American Renaissance\", was founded to provide such a voice for white interests, and argues that its work is analogous to other interest groups that advocate for ethnic or racial groups. Writing in that journal in 2005, he stated, \"Blacks and whites are different. When blacks are left entirely to their own devices, Western civilization — any kind of civilization — disappears.\"\n\nTaylor supports immigration policies that would favor white immigrants over other groups. Taylor is noted as saying, \"Whites deserve a homeland,\" and when questioned about the US immigration laws passed in 1965, under the Hart-Celler Act, said that \"Whites are making a terrible mistake by setting in motion forces that will reduce them to a minority.\"\n\nKathleen R. Arnold a professor from the Political Science department at DePaul University states, \"unlike many other white supremacists, Taylor is not anti-Semitic, and in fact encourages Jews to join his fight...however many within the white supremacist/anti-immigration movement disagree with Taylor... and he has been under tremendous pressure to break ties with the Jewish community.\" The Southern Poverty Law Center notes that Taylor is unusual among the radical right in \"his lack of anti-Semitism.\" \"The Jewish Daily Forward\" reported that Taylor \"has been trying to de-Nazify the movement and draw the white nationalist circle wider to include Jews of European descent. But to many on the far right, taking the Jew-hatred out of white nationalism is like taking the Christ out of Christmas — a sacrilege.\"\n\nTaylor supported Donald Trump's presidential campaign, and recorded robocalls to support Trump before the Iowa caucus and New Hampshire primary.\n\nTaylor described Trump's inauguration as \"a sign of rising white consciousness\". In a May 2017 CNN interview with Sara Sidner, Taylor said that he supported Trump's election as president \"because the effects of his policy would be to reduce the dispossession of whites, that is, to slow the process whereby whites become the minority in the United-States.\"\n\nA spokesperson told CNN that the candidate \"disavows all super PACs offering their support and continues to do so.\" when asked about the robocalls in an interview with CNN, Trump responded \"I would disavow that, but I will tell you people are extremely angry.\" \n\nTaylor supports the white genocide conspiracy theory, and has hosted the Suidlanders on his AmRen podcast to discuss the topic, whilst encouraging donations to the South African organisation. He has been known to recommend Jean Raspail's \"The Camp of the Saints\" to his followers.\n\nThe Southern Poverty Law Center describes Taylor as \"a courtly presenter of ideas that most would describe as crudely white supremacist—a kind of modern-day version of the refined but racist colonialist of old.\"\n\nMark Potok and Heidi Beirich, writers in the \"Intelligence Report\" (a publication of the Southern Poverty Law Center), have written that \"Jared Taylor is the cultivated, cosmopolitan face of white supremacy. He is the guy who is providing the intellectual heft, in effect, to modern-day Klansmen.\" They have also stated that \"\"American Renaissance\" has become increasingly important over the years, bringing a measure of intellectualism and seriousness to the typically thug-dominated world of white supremacy\".\n\nA 2005 feature in the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" described Taylor as \"a racist in the guise of expert\".\n\nHis online magazine, \"American Renaissance\", has been described as a white supremacist publication and a \"forum for writers disparaging the abilities of minorities\".\n\nOn December 18, 2017, his account (as well as the account for \"American Renaissance\") was suspended by Twitter, as part of Twitter's new rules prohibiting accounts affiliated with the promotion of violence. In February 2018, Taylor filed a lawsuit against Twitter on free speech grounds. Taylor and American Renaissance are represented by Marc Randazza, who has previously represented Andrew Anglin, publisher of the neo-Nazi Daily Stormer website.\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "1724741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1724741", "title": "Judeo-Christian Council for Constitutional Restoration", "text": "Judeo-Christian Council for Constitutional Restoration\n\nThe Judeo-Christian Council for Constitutional Restoration is a conservative, religious organization formed in early 2005 that ran the website StopActivistJudges.org. By February 28, 2013, the domain had expired and been acquired by a domain parking company.\n\nThe council is descended from the Dallas Group. It is currently chaired by Rick Scarborough. The council's executive director is Philip Jauregui, former counsel to Chief Justice Roy Moore. In April 2005, Scarborough was quoted as saying that his group was needed because of, \"Activist judges...(whose) distortions of the Constitution have brought us abortion-on-demand, purged religious symbols from public places, made our schools faith-free zones, created a so-called right to homosexual sodomy and threatened 'one nation under God' in the pledge of allegiance. Now, judges seem intent on imposing same-sex marriage by fiat.\" According to the group's website, \"Each progressive step down the road to the secularization of America has come not through a referendum of the people, or an act of their elected representatives, but rather at the stroke of a judge’s pen.\"\n\nThe group's April 2005 conference, \"Confronting The Judicial War On Faith\", attracted many prominent conservatives. According to the Washington Post, \"The two-day program listed two House members; aides to two senators; representatives from the Family Research Council and Concerned Women for America; conservative activists Alan Keyes and Morton C. Blackwell; the lawyer for Terri Schiavo's parents; Alabama's \"Ten Commandments\" judge, Roy Moore; and [Rep. Tom] DeLay, who canceled to attend the pope's funeral.\" The event brought together lawmakers and Capitol Hill staffers with theocrats, adherents of Christian Reconstructionism, a Calvinist doctrine that calls for the biblical law to rule American law.\n\nIn a session titled \"Remedies to Judicial Tyranny,\" a constitutional lawyer named Edwin Vieira discussed United States Supreme Court justice Anthony Kennedy's majority opinion in Lawrence vs. Texas, which struck down that state's anti-sodomy law. Kennedy was accused of relying on \"Marxist, Leninist, Satanic principals drawn from foreign law\" in his jurisprudence.\n\nAccording to the group's website, \"April 7–8 proved to be a divine appointment. There was no way of knowing, humanly speaking, how significant that time would be in the life of our Republic\"; Schiavo had died and \"the federal judiciary, up to and including the United States Supreme Court, also turned a deaf ear to repeated pleas to save Terri.\" The group claims that the conference was responsible for creating \"a movement... to restore the Constitution to its true meaning and original glory.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57684629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57684629", "title": "Kátia Tapety", "text": "Kátia Tapety\n\nKátia Tapety (born 24 April 1949) is a Brazilian politician. She was the first transgender politician to be elected in Brazil.\n\nTapety is the child of a family of politicians and until the sixteen years lived practically hidden in the house. She went to school only until third grade of elementary school and after that, her parents kept her a recluse.\n\nA resident of the municipality of Colônia do Piauí, 388 km south of Teresina, the Piauiense capital, Tapety joined the Liberal Front Party in which the councilman was elected in 1992, 1996 and 2000 (always first and foremost), then she next joined the Popular Socialist Party, then the party of Ciro Gomes, who was her political idol.\n\nTapety was also president of the Colônia do Piauí City Council from 2001 to 2002.\n\nIn Colônia do Piauí, Kátia is officially a public health official, but since she lives in a town of only 7,000 inhabitants, which is embedded in the backlands of the state of Piauí, she is a kind of \"do everything.\" She works as a councilor, midwife, community leader and health agent. Sometimes she also works as a social worker, psychologist, lawyer, driver and even a cowgirl. Its political line, however, is more focused on welfare than on the defense of trans or homosexuals. In 12 years as a councilwoman, she did not want to present any project related to the subject because she believes that she lives in a city of the interior with other problems much more priority, where nobody would be interested in subjects directed to the transsexuality and where there are very few transgenders.\n\nThe fact that Tapety has entered politics is considered extraordinary, since it opens space for new and future social achievements and citizenship of the transgender. It shows that it is possible for a transgender to exercise her right to citizenship and to live a dignified life, away from stereotypes. Contrary to popular belief, her election also showed that it is a myth that in the large and cosmopolitan Brazilian cities there is less prejudice than in the so-called \"country grottoes.\" The four municipal elections already held in Colônia do Piauí were disputed by Katia, who managed to win all of them. In addition to deputy mayor, she was already councilor for three terms, and one of them assumed the presidency of the city hall. Her political group has support from various groups in the city, including members of evangelical churches.\n\nIn the election of 2008, Tapety applied, obtaining only the substitution.\n\nThe dream of politics is to have Tapety's marital union legalized, since she lives with her partner and two children, one adoptive and the other from a previous relationship.\n\nThe documentary \"De Zé a Kátia\", by Karla Holanda, will show the life of Kátia Tapety, the first transgender person elected to public and political office in Brazil. The information about the feature film came to light through the column of the journalist Mônica Bergamo, published in Folha of October 2010.\n"}
{"id": "29240420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29240420", "title": "Land Reform in Taiwan", "text": "Land Reform in Taiwan\n\nIn the 1950s, after the Nationalist government fled to Taiwan, land reform and community development was carried out by the Sino-American Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction. \n\nThis course of action was made attractive, in part, by the fact that many of the large landowners were Japanese who had fled, and the other large landowners were compensated with Japanese commercial and industrial properties seized after Taiwan reverted from Japanese rule in 1945. \n\nThe land program succeeded also because the Kuomintang were mostly from mainland China and had few ties to the remaining indigenous landowners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "397200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397200", "title": "List of Newfoundland and Labrador general elections", "text": "List of Newfoundland and Labrador general elections\n\nThis article provides a summary of results for the general elections to the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador's unicameral legislative body, the Newfoundland and Labrador House of Assembly. The number of seats has varied over time, from a low of twenty-seven for the first election in 1949, to a high of fifty-two during the 1980s and early 1990s. There are currently 40 seats in the house.\n\nThe chart on the right shows the information graphically, with the most recent elections on the right. It shows that politics in Newfoundland and Labrador have been dominated by two parties: the Liberal party (red) and the Conservative party (blue). The Liberal party have won ten out of the seventeen elections held.\n\nThis article only covers elections since the province became part of the Canadian Confederation in 1949. It was then named \"Newfoundland\", and its official name changed to \"Newfoundland and Labrador\" in 2001. Prior to becoming part of Canada, Newfoundland was a British dominion, and the Newfoundland House of Assembly (as it was known before 2001) was first formed in 1832. For elections prior to 1949, see General elections in Newfoundland (pre-Confederation).\n\nThe table below shows the total number of seats won by the major political parties at each election. It also shows the percentage of the vote obtained by the major political parties at each election, if greater than 0.1%. The winning party's totals are shown in bold. To date, there has only been one election (in 1989) where the party that formed the government did not have the largest share of the vote. Full details on any election are linked via the number of the election at the start of the row.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1096689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096689", "title": "M. Thomas Inge", "text": "M. Thomas Inge\n\nM. Thomas Inge is an American academic. He is the Robert Emory Blackwell Professor of Humanities at Randolph–Macon College in Ashland, Virginia, where he teaches, edits, and writes about Southern literature and culture, American humor and comic art, film and animation, Asian literature, and William Faulkner.\n\nA native of Newport News, Virginia, he received his B.A. degree in English and Spanish from Randolph-Macon in 1959 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Vanderbilt University in 1960 and 1964 respectively.\n\nInge taught at Michigan State University and then chaired the English departments at Virginia Commonwealth University and Clemson University.\n\nAs a senior Fulbright Lecturer, Inge has taught at the University of Salamanca in Spain (1967–68), at three institutions in Buenos Aires, Argentina (1971), at Moscow State University in the former Soviet Union (1979), and at Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic (1994). As Resident Scholar in American Studies with the US Information Agency, a part of the State Department, he lectured and did diplomatic work in eighteen countries from 1982 to 1984 and earned a commendation for distinguished work in the Soviet Union.\n\nInge has authored or edited over sixty books and has been a pioneer in the development of popular culture as a legitimate field of academic study. He was one of the founders of the Popular Culture Association. His three-volume \"Handbook of American Popular Culture\" was cited by the American Library Association as an outstanding reference work in 1979 and has been issued in revised and expanded editions in 1989 and 2002. Recent publications include \"William Faulkner: Overlook Illustrated Lives\" (2006), \"The Incredible Mr. Poe: Comic Book Adaptations of the Works of Edgar Allan Poe\" (2008), \"New Encyclopedia of Southern Culture, Volume 9: Literature\" (2008), \"My Life with Charlie Brown by Charles M. Schulz\" (2010), and \"The Dixie Limited: Writers on Faulkner and His Influence\" (Spring 2016). The Society for the Study of Southern Literature gave him the Richard Beale Davis Award for Lifetime Contributions to Southern Letters in 2008. He founded the journal, \"Resources for American Literary Study\", in 1971 and the Southern Studies Forum of the European Association for American Studies in 1995.\n\nInge was also one of the founders of the American Humor Studies Association and served for four years as Editor of its journal, \"Studies in American Humor\". His work on humor includes editions of \"Sut Lovingood’s Yarns\" by Tennessee humorist George Washington Harris (1966, 1967, 1987), the Oxford World Classics edition of Mark Twain’s \"A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court\" (1997), and with Ed Piacentino, \"Southern Frontier Humor: An Anthology\" (2010). Some of his numerous essays on American humor have been collected in his books \"Comics as Culture\" (1990), \"The Frontier Humorists: Critical Views\" (1975), and \"Perspectives on American Culture: Essays on Humor, Literature, and the Popular Arts\" (1994).\n\nThe M. Thomas Inge Papers (in the Comic Arts Collection at Virginia Commonwealth University) includes magazines, catalogs, fanzines, programs and humor publications. This collection is composed of materials collected by Dr. Inge relating to his academic studies of the comic arts, popular culture, and American literature. The bulk of the collection is dated from the 1950s onward and is made up of many items collected by Inge covering the history of the comic arts. It includes a large collection of published and unpublished materials and ephemera items relating to the comic arts. Manuscripts by Inge and other writers are also included.\n\nThe collection contains correspondence with a number of noted artists and writers, including Art Spieglman, Mort Walker, Bruce Duncan, and Harold Foster, and comic arts scholars. The collection includes advertisements, fan club materials, posters, art prints, animation cells, comic strip and comic book samples, comic and animation character drinking glasses, numerous buttons, records, and various other collectable items.\n\nThe collection is highlighted by a very large collection of reference journals including fanzines, newsletters, journals, and numerous other periodicals related to the comic arts. These periodical titles focus on the history and art of comic books and comic strips, cartoonists, comic book and comic strip characters, animation, and other aspects of the comic arts and popular culture. These materials, and the hundreds of comic books and reference books donated by Dr. Inge, have been incorporated into their own individual collections.\n\n\n\nDunne, Michael. “M. Thomas Inge: A Smile All Around.” \"Pioneers in Popular Culture Studies\". Edited by Ray B. Browne and Michael T. Marsden. Bowling Green, OH: Bowling Green State University Popular Press, 1999. Pages 118-134.\n\nInge, M. Thomas. “A Pioneer’s Perspective.” \"The Secret Origins of Comics Studies.\" Edited by Matthew J. Smith and Randy Duncan. New York: Routledge, 2017. Pages 260-261 and passim.\n\nInge, M. Thomas. “Agrarians All! Or Southerners without Masters.” \"CrossRoads: A Southern Culture Annual 2004\". Edited by Ted Ownby. Macon, GA: Mercer University Press, 2004. Pages 256-275.\n\nInge, M. Thomas. “Founding a Journal: \"Resources for American Literary Study\".” Resources for American Literary Study, 29 (2005): 1-8.\n\nWilson, Leslie. “M. Thomas Inge.” \"12 Conversations with American Studies Scholars\". Hollywood, CA: Press Americana, 2015. Pages 70–74.\n\n"}
{"id": "118379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=118379", "title": "Malaysian Indian Congress", "text": "Malaysian Indian Congress\n\nThe Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC; ; formerly known as Malayan Indian Congress) is a Malaysian political party and is one of the founding members of Barisan Nasional, previously known as the Alliance, that was in power from when the country achieved independence in 1957 until the recent 2018 elections. The party was among the first to fight for Malayan Independence and one of the oldest parties in Malaysia.\n\nThe MIC was established in August 1946, and has ceased to exist at the end of World War II, to fight for Indian independence from British colonial rule. After India gained its independence, MIC involved itself in the struggle for the independence of Malaya (now Malaysia) which was achieved in 1957. It positioned itself for representation on behalf of the Indian community in the post-war development of the country. The MIC joined the National Alliance comprising the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) and the Malaysian Chinese Association (MCA) in 1954 which became the Barisan Nasional in 1973 with further expansion in the number of component parties.\n\nThe party was once the largest party representing the Indian community, but has performed poorly in elections since 2008, with the Indian community mostly voting for the opposition.\n\nThe Malaysian Indian Congress is one of the oldest political party established in Malaysia. The party founded in year 1946 by John A.Thivy.\nAt first the party was established to fight for Indian independence.\nAfter India gained independence, the party change its ideology in the course of the continuing struggle of the inter-war tears, to end British Colonial rule, as well as in the need for representation on behalf of Indian community in the post war development of the country.\n\nJohn Thivy met Mahatma Gandhi at London while studying for law. He was inspired by Gandhi's ideology and determined for fight for Indian independence. He was actively involved in the Indian nationalist movement when he returned to Malaya. He founded the Malaya Indian Congress (MIC only officially became known as Malaysian Indian Congress, after the formation of the Federation of Malaysia in 1963) in August 1946. The word 'Congress' in the name of Malaysian Indian Congress is taken from the Indian National Congress, the party that Mahatma Gandhi led to fight for Indian independence.\n\nAfter India gained independence in 1947, Malaysian Indian Congress changed its ideology and started to fight for Malaysian Independence. John Thivy remained as party president for 1946 to 1947.\n\nBaba Budh Singh Ji became the 2nd president of MIC. During this time, the sentimental of the party take the path of anti-colonialism. Although majority of Indian support Malayan Union, MIC take the principle not to support Malayan Union. The Malayan union were withdraw on 1948 and replaced with Federation of Malaya. The MIC later joined the All Malaya Council for Joint Action (AMCJA) under Tun Tan Cheng Lock in opposition to the less liberal Federation of Malaya Agreement of 1948.\n\nThird President Mr. K.Ramanathan, realising the ineffectiveness and futility of non-co-operation with the Government when the other major communities represented by UMNO and MCA cooperated, the MIC contested in 1952 Kuala Lumpur Municipal Elections in alliance with the IMP under Dato' Onn bin Jaafar and other non-communal organisations. However the 1952 elections proved the MIC's attempt to preach and practise non-communalism would not prevail in Malayan politics when communalism was the winning factor.\n\nIn 1954 the MIC under its fourth President Mr. K. L. Devaser (1951-1955) became the third partner in the Alliance with UMNO and MCA.And It was during his period that MIC started focusing on the fight for Malayan independence.\n\nAt first, MIC under K.L Devaser contested in the 1952 Kuala Lumpur Municipal Elections in partnership with the Independence of Malaya Party under Dato’ Onn bin Jaafar.The election ended with a failure for MIC as their coalition was thrashed by the Alliance Party. The defeat showed MIC that it stood a better chance by joining the ‘Alliance’ as it was the most workable and effective form of political technique in the Malayan context. Thus, in 1954, MIC became the third member of the Alliance Party.\n\nAccording to Rajeswary Ampalavanar, author of \"The Indian Minority and Political Change in Malaya 1954-1957\", the MIC leadership was quite eager to join the Alliance but there was some resistance within the party’s broader membership. They were willing to support the move if the party could secure some concessions from the Alliance on inter-communal issues, particularly on education. From its inception up to this period, the Indian community has been divided.\n\nWhile K.L. Devaser was quite outspoken, his influence was largely among the urban-based Indian elite, and he lacked wider grassroots support. For the first eight years, the MIC leaders were either of North Indian or Malayalee origin, representing a minority among the Malayan Indians. The majority of Indians (90%) in Malaya at that time were Tamils, mainly the labourers in plantations. Indian plantation workers, the main group of wageworkers in Malaya at the time, experienced enforced segregation because of plantation compound housing. The plantation labour system also worked against the integration of Indian workers into society at large and perpetuated racial and occupational differentiation. For one thing, they were unable to acquire skills that would facilitate their move to betterpaying jobs elsewhere. Migrant plantation workers were therefore marginalised and polarised in Malaya. Their wages in the post World War II era, which were around 50 cents a day, were tied to rubber prices, falling when the rubber price fell, but never rising when prices rose. K.L. Devaser came under heavy criticism from the Tamil media for not addressing the pressing issues facing the community. Some in the party felt that there was a need for a leader with a stronger relationship with the party’s grassroots. In March 1955, reports in the local daily \"Tamil Murasu\" urged Tamils to boycott the MIC. Even in 1955, the Indians clamoured for a change in MIC’s leadership and a change did take place because the president recognised that he had overstayed his welcome and gave way for change.The MIC's main challenge then, was to reconcile the political aspirations of the middle class with the needs of the labour class, who then comprised 84% of the plantation workforce.\n\nAt the Ninth Annual MIC Conference that was held in Teluk Anson (Teluk Intan), Perak in May 1955, Tun V.T. Sambanthan was elected as the fifth President of the Malayan Indian Congress. The MIC's main challenge was to reconcile the political aspirations of the middle class with the poverty and needs of the labouring class, who in 1938 comprised 84% of the plantation labour force. Sambanthan started a recruitment campaign among plantation workers, relying on patronage of Hinduism in its popular South Indian form, increased use and fostering of the Tamil language, and Tamil cultural activities.\n\nBut the MIC under Sambanthan failed to reconcile the needs of labour with the political aspirations of the middle class. The traditionalists and the lower middle class strengthened their hold within the party, while the upper-class professionals and the intelligentsia moved away from it. Subsequently, two paths to leadership emerged among the Indians – political and trade union – with very little interaction between them.\n\nUnder Sambanthan's leadership, the MIC effectively became a Tamil party. Sambanthan served as president of the MIC from 1955–71 and was largely responsible for the transformation of the party from an active, political organisation to a conservative, traditional one, emphasising Indian culture, religion and language.\n\nIt was also the weakest of the three main political parties. It had the smallest electorate – 7.4% in 1959; and it had little support from the Indian community at large.\n\nSince the Indian community was geographically dispersed and divided, it comprised less than 25% in any constituency. Therefore, the MIC's over-riding concern was to remain a partner in the Alliance (the UMNO-MCA-MIC Alliance that had won the first elections in 1955, and that was subsequently renamed Barisan Nasional) and obtain whatever concessions it could from the dominant UMNO. In the process, political and economic rights of workers were sacrificed.\n\nSambanthan, while as MIC president, helped strengthen the party economically by selling about half of his father's 2.4 km² rubber estate to help the Indian community as well as to provide financial strength to the party coffers.\n\nSambanthan took over the mantle of the MIC during a period of turmoil in the party in 1955, barely months before the first federal elections, and over time strengthened the party and consolidated its position in the coalition. He did not always please his members but was able to gradually unite a party that had considerable internal splits.\n\nManickavasagam became president of MIC as a result of increased resistance of the grassroot members to Tun V.T. Sambanthan's style of leadership. As president of the party for 18 years, some felt Sambanthan had overstayed his welcome and wanted change.\n\nUnder Manickavasagam's leadership, the MIC was put on a strong footing with buildings, offices and staff in various parts of the country and the party system organised and its capacity to deal with issues enhanced.\n\nIt was during this period that the MIC, as member of the Alliance, became part of the Barisan Nasional. The party sponsored the Nesa Multipurpose Cooperative and the MIC Unit Trust as part of its programme for economic ventures, and also set up the MIC Education Fund for members' children and the Malaysian Indian Scholarship Fund for higher education as well as acquiring an Institute for training Indians in technical and trade skills. Manickavasagam had a vision for the Malaysian Indian community. He organised the First Indian Economic Seminar and as a result the Blue Book came about. It was a development plan for the economic growth of the Indian community.The Blue Book was an orchestrated effort of a think-tank of top Indian business, political and education leaders collaborating to augment the future of the Malaysian Indian community. Maika Holdings and Maju Institute of Education and Development (MIED) and others are a direct result of the Blue Book.\n\nWhen Manickavasagam became president of the Malaysian Indian Congress, he decided to introduce new faces to the party in leadership positions. This was the time when Datuk S. Subramaniam, Datuk K. Pathmanaban, a Harvard MBA holder, and several others entered the political arena to infuse new blood into MIC, and Manickavasagam gave them preference. They were young, well-educated and ambitious but lacked grassroots experience.\n\nThis made Datuk Seri S. Samy Vellu, who was then MIC vice-president, bitter as he felt he was being sidelined. Samy Vellu was one of the five leaders who dared defy former president Tun V.T. Sambanthan and propel Manickavasagam to the presidency of the party. Subramaniam, then the secretary general of MIC, was hand-picked by Manickavasagam to become deputy president and succeed him. However, Samy Vellu fought back, literally, and in the 1977 party elections he managed to beat Subramaniam by a mere 26 votes to become the Deputy President of MIC.\n\nMore than 10,000 students have obtained loans and scholarships totalling about RM60mil in the past 20 years from the Maju Institute of Education Development (MIED) fund, the education arm the MIC.\n\nThe party sponsored the Nesa Multipurpose Cooperative and the MIC Unit Trust as part of its programme for economic ventures, and also set up the MIC Education Fund for members’ children and the Malaysian Indian Scholarship for higher education.\n\nThe Asian Institute of Medicine, Science and Technology University (AIMST) is the major ongoing project by MIC. It has already commenced operations and is offering a range of science and technology-based programmes including Medicine. It was founded on 15 March 2001, by the Maju Institute of Educational Development (MIED), the educational arm of the MIC. Owned by Sammy Vellu Family.\n\n30 Central Working Committee Members:\n\n\nMIC has 1 MP in the House of Representatives.\n\nJohor State Legislative Assembly\nNegeri Sembilan State Legislative Assembly\nPerlis State Legislative Assembly\nKedah State Legislative Assembly\n\nKelantan State Legislative Assembly\nTerengganu State Legislative Assembly\nPenang State Legislative Assembly\n\nPerak State Legislative Assembly\nPahang State Legislative Assembly\nSelangor State Legislative Assembly\n\nMelaka State Legislative Assembly\nSabah State Legislative Assembly\nSarawak State Legislative Assembly\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2870773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2870773", "title": "Medicare Part D", "text": "Medicare Part D\n\nMedicare Part D, also called the Medicare prescription drug benefit, is an optional United States federal-government program to help Medicare beneficiaries pay for self-administered prescription drugs through prescription drug insurance premiums (the cost of almost all professionally administered prescriptions is covered under optional Part B of United States Medicare). Part D was originally proposed by President Clinton in 2000 and enacted as part of the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 (which also made changes to the public Part C Medicare health plan program) and went into effect on January 1, 2006.\n\nIndividuals on Medicare are eligible for prescription drug coverage under a Part D plan if they are signed up for benefits under Medicare Part A and/or Part B. Beneficiaries obtain the Part D drug benefit through two types of plans administered by private insurance companies: the beneficiaries can join a standalone Prescription Drug Plan (PDP) for drug coverage only or they can join a public Part C health plan that jointly covers all hospital and medical services covered by Medicare Part A and Part B at a minimum, and typically covers additional healthcare costs not covered by Medicare Parts A and B including prescription drugs (MA-PD). (NOTE: Medicare beneficiaries need to be signed up for both Parts A and B to select Part C whereas they need only A or B to select Part D.) \n\nAbout two-thirds of all Medicare beneficiaries are enrolled directly in Part D or get Part-D-like benefits through a public Part C Medicare health plan. Another large group of Medicare beneficiaries get prescription drug coverage under plans offered by former employers or through the Veterans Administration. It is also possible that a former employer or union might sponsor a Part D plan for former employees/members (such plans are called Employer Group Waiver Plans).\n\nMedicare beneficiaries can enroll directly through the plan's administrator, or indirectly via an insurance broker or the exchange -- called Medicare Plan Finder -- run by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) for this purpose; the beneficiary's benefits and any additional assistance payments and rights are the same regardless of enrollment channel. Beneficiaries already on a plan can choose a different plan or drop Part C/D during the annual enrollment period or during other times during the year. For some time, the annual enrollment period has lasted from October 15 to December 7 of each year but that is changing for Part C in 2019. Low-income seniors on Social Security Extra Help/LIS and many middle-income seniors on state pharmaceutical assistance programs can choose a different plan or drop Part C/D (or join Part C/D plan for that matter) as often as once a month. Other special enrollment circumstances apply.\n\nMedicare beneficiaries who were eligible for but did not enroll in a Part D when they were first eligible and later want to enroll, pay a late-enrollment penalty, basically a premium surtax, if they did not have acceptable coverage through another source such as an employer or the U.S. Veterans Administration. This penalty is equal to 1% of the national premium index times the number of full calendar months that they were eligible for but not enrolled in Part D and did not have creditable coverage through another source. The penalty raises the premium of Part D for beneficiaries, when and if they elect coverage.\n\nIn May 2018, enrollment exceeded 44 million, including both those on standalone Part D and those enrolled in Part C plan (which includes Part-D-like coverage). About 20% of those beneficiaries are on a EGWP drug plan where a former employer receives a Part D subsidy on his or her behalf. The latter two groups lack the same freedom of choice that the standalone Part D group has because they must use the Part D plan chosen by the Part C plan's administrator or their former employer.\n\nAs of May 2018, over 700 drug plan contracts had been signed between CMS and administrators, which in turn means multiple thousand plans because administrators can vary plans by county. Individual counties might have as few as three to as many 30 plans from which beneficiaries can choose. This allows participants to choose a plan that best meets their individual needs. Although the number of plans available has been trending down since the inception of the program, almost all counties offer many choices.\n\nPlan administrators are required to offer a plan with at least the \"standard\" minimum benefit or one that is actuarially equivalent to the standard, and they may also offer plans with more generous benefits (e.g., no deductible during the initial spend phase). The terms \"standard,\" \"actuarially equivalent,\" and \"more generous\" relate to the plan's deductible/co-pay/formulary/\"donut-hole\" (see Note)/pharmacy-preference aspects and has no direct relevance to the beneficiary other than increasing or decreasing personal choice. Each plan is approved by the CMS before being marketed. \n\n(NOTE: It is often said the donut hole will be eliminated; that is not technically true. The \"donut hole\" is also called the gap phase of spending; at one time the co-pay in the gap was 100%. As of 2019, the \"standard\" co-pay in the gap will be 25%, the same as in the initial spend phase. It is also important to note that relatively few people as a percent of the total number of people on Medicare are ever financially affected by either the donut hole or catastrophic phases of spending.) \n\nMedicare offers an interactive online tool called the Medicare Plan Finder that allows for comparison of coverage and costs for all plans in a geographic area. The tool lets users enter a list of medications along with pharmacy preferences and Social-Security-Extra-Help/LIS and related status. The Finder can show the beneficiary's total annual costs for each plan along with a detailed breakdown of the plans' monthly premiums, deductibles and prices for each drug during each phase of spending (initial, gap, catastrophic). Plans are required to update this site with current prices and formulary information every other week throughout the year.\n\nThe Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) established a standard drug benefit that all Part D plans must offer. The standard benefit is defined in terms of the benefit structure and without mandating the drugs that must be covered. For example, in 2013, the standard benefit required payment by the beneficiary of a $325 deductible, then required 25% coinsurance payment by the beneficiary of drug costs up to an initial coverage limit of $2,970 (the full retail cost of prescriptions). Once this initial coverage limit is reached, the beneficiary had to pay the full cost of his/her prescription drugs up until the total out-of-pocket expenses reached $4,750 (excluding premiums and any expense paid by the insurance company) minus a 52.5% discount in this gap, referred to as the \"Donut Hole\". Once the beneficiary reaches the Out-of-Pocket Threshold, he/she becomes eligible for catastrophic coverage. During catastrophic coverage, he or she pays the greater of 5% coinsurance, or $2.65 for generic drugs and $6.60 for brand-name drugs. The catastrophic coverage amount is calculated on a yearly basis and a beneficiary who reaches catastrophic coverage by the end of the benefit year will start his or her deductible anew at the beginning of the next benefit year. Although uncommon, not all benefit years coincide with the calendar year. The donut-hole and catastrophic-coverage thresholds dropped slightly in 2014.\n\nThe standard benefit is not the most common benefit mix offered by Part D plans. Only 11% of plans in 2010 offered the defined standard benefit described above. Plans vary widely in formularies and cost-sharing. Most eliminate the deductible and use tiered drug co-payments rather than coinsurance. The only out-of-pocket costs that count toward getting out of the coverage gap and into catastrophic coverage are True Out-Of-Pocket (TrOOP) expenditures. TrOOP expenditures accrue only when drugs on plan's formulary are purchased in accordance with the restrictions on those drugs. Monthly premium payments do not count towards TrOOP.\n\nUnder the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, the effect of the \"Donut Hole\" coverage gap was to be gradually reduced through a combination of measures including brand-name prescription drug discounts, generic drug discounts and a gradual increase in the percentage of out-of-pocket costs covered while in the donut hole. The \"Donut Hole\" will continue to exist after 2020 but its effect will be changed in some way yet to be determined, because plan administrators must treat out of pocket costs below the catastrophic level the same whether or not the insured is in the donut hole or not. That is, under the \"standard benefit\" design all prescriptions in all tiers could be subject to a 25% co-pay whereas as of 2014 hundreds of drugs in Tier 1 are available with no co-pay.\n\nMost plans use specialty drug tiers, and some have a separate benefit tier for injectable drugs. Beneficiary cost sharing can be higher for drugs in these tiers.\n\nThe average (weighted) monthly premium paid by the beneficiary for PDPs was $35.09 in 2009, which is an increase from $29.89 in 2008. Premiums were projected to increase to $38.94 for 2010 as well. In 2014, the average is around $30 a month. The average premium is a misleading statistic because it averages the premiums offered, not the premiums paid. Most insurers offer a very low-cost plan (e.g., $15 a month) that few choose. This lowers the average, but does not reflect what is happening in the market.\n\nIn 2007, 8% of beneficiaries enrolled in a PDP chose one with some gap coverage. Among beneficiaries in MA-PD plans, enrollment in plans offering gap coverage was 33% (up from 27% in 2006). Premiums are significantly higher for plans with gap coverage. These plans are becoming less common as the gap closes. The fact that beneficiaries on Social Security Extra Help/LIS were never affected by the gap and the fact that many state pharmaceutical assistance programs protected middle income seniors in the gap are the reasons this gap benefit was never especially popular.\n\nMajor Part D plan sponsors are dropping their more expensive options, and developing lower-cost ones.\n\nOne option for those struggling with drug costs is the low-income subsidy. Beneficiaries with income below 150% of the poverty line are eligible for the low-income subsidy, which helps pay for all or part of the monthly premium, annual deductible and co-pays. CMS estimated that 12.5 million Part D beneficiaries were eligible for low-income subsidies in 2009.\n\nThe subsidy award is given a level with the following effects for the 2013 benefit year:\nProbably the most important benefits of Social Security Extra Help/LIS other than \"free\" is the fact that the beneficiary has no exposure to \"donut hole\" costs and can change plans monthly. In addition, in many states, state pharmaceutical assistance programs provide similar protection in the gap to middle-income seniors and allow beneficiaries to change plans one other time during the year in addition to the annual enrollment/re-enrollment period.\n\nWhile CMS does not have an established formulary, Part D drug coverage excludes drugs not approved by the Food and Drug Administration, those prescribed for off-label use, drugs not available by prescription for purchase in the United States, and drugs for which payments would be available under Part B.\n\nPart D coverage excludes drugs or classes of drugs that may be excluded from Medicaid coverage. These may include:\n\nWhile these drugs are excluded from basic Part D coverage, drug plans can include them as a supplemental benefit, provided they otherwise meet the definition of a Part D drug. However plans that cover excluded drugs are not allowed to pass on those costs to Medicare, and plans are required to repay CMS if they are found to have billed Medicare in these cases. Part D plans may cover all benzodiazepines and those barbiturates used in the treatment of epilepsy, cancer or a chronic health disorder. These two drug classes were originally excluded, until their reassignment in 2008 by the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act.\n\nPart D plans are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs. They establish their own formularies, or list of covered drugs for which they will make payment, as long as the formulary and benefit structure are not found by CMS to discourage enrollment by certain Medicare beneficiaries. Part D plans that follow the formulary classes and categories established by the United States Pharmacopoeia will pass the first discrimination test. Plans can change the drugs on their formulary during the course of the year with 60 days' notice to affected parties.\n\nThe Plan's tiered co-pay amounts for each drug only generally apply during the initial period before the coverage gap.\n\nThe primary differences between the formularies of different Part D plans relate to the coverage of brand-name drugs. \n\nTypically, each Plan's formulary is organized into tiers, and each tier is associated with a set co-pay amount. Most formularies have between 3 and 5 tiers. The lower the tier, the lower the co-pay. For example, Tier 1 might include all of the Plan's preferred generic drugs, and each drug within this tier might have a co-pay of $5 to $10 per prescription. Tier 2 might include the Plan's preferred brand drugs with a co-pay of $40 to $50, while Tier 3 may be reserved for non-preferred brand drugs which are covered by the plan at a higher co-pay, perhaps $70 to $100. Tiers 4 and higher typically contain specialty drugs, which have the highest co-pays because they are generally more expensive. By 2011 in the United States a growing number of Medicare Part D health insurance plans had added the specialty tier.\n\nCMS funds a national program of counselors to assist all Medicare beneficiaries, including duals, with their plan choices. The program is called State Health Insurance Assistance Program (SHIP).\n\nMedicare Part D was originally proposed by President Bill Clinton in 2000. It was based on earlier proposals developed by Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi and Senator Tom Daschle. These late-1990s/2000 proposals -- with the exception of the spend phase structure but including the fact that Medicare itself would not do the negotiating -- are substantially the same as the current Part D.\n\nAt the start of the program in January 2006, it was expected that eleven million people would be covered by Medicare Part D; of those, six million would be dual eligible. About two million people who were covered by employers would likely lose their employee benefits.\n\nAs of January 30, 2007, nearly 24 million individuals were receiving prescription drug coverage through Medicare Part D (PDPs and MA-PDs combined), according to CMS. Medicare offers other methods of receiving drug coverage, including the Retiree Drug Subsidy. Federal retiree programs such as TRICARE and Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) or alternative sources, such as the Department of Veterans Affairs. Including people in these categories, more than 39 million Americans are covered for prescriptions by the federal government.\n\nA survey released by AARP in November 2007 found that 85% of enrollees reported satisfaction with their drug plan, and 78% said that they had made a good choice in selecting their plan.\n\nAs of the end of 2008, the average annual per beneficiary cost spending for Part D was $1,517, making the total expenditures of the program for 2008 $49.3 billion.\n\nFrom a budget perspective, Part D is effectively three different programs. Based on 2012 budget numbers:\n\n\"Medicare Part D Cost Utilization Measures\" refer to limitations placed on medications covered in a specific insurer's formulary for a plan. Cost utilization consists of techniques that attempt to reduce insurer costs. The three main cost utilization measures are quantity limits, prior authorization and step therapy.\n\nQuantity limits refer to the maximum amount of a medication that may be dispensed during a given calendar period. For example, a plan may dictate that it will cover 90 pills of a given drug within a 30-day period.\n\nA prior authorization requirement requires a health care worker to receive formal approval from a plan before it agrees to cover a specific prescription. It may be used by insurers for drugs that are often misused. Prior authorization helps ensure that patients receive correct medications.\n\nStep therapy is a process in which a plan requires an individual to try, and prove ineffective, one or more specified lower-cost drugs before a higher-cost drug in the same therapeutic class is approved.\n\n\nA 2008 study found that the percentage of Medicare beneficiaries who reported forgoing medications due to cost dropped with Part D, from 15.2% in 2004 and 14.1% in 2005 to 11.5% in 2006. The percentage who reported skipping other basic necessities to pay for drugs also dropped, from 10.6% in 2004 and 11.1% in 2005 to 7.6% in 2006. The very sickest beneficiaries reported no reduction, but fewer reported forgoing other necessities to pay for medicine.\n\nA parallel study found that Part D beneficiaries skip doses or switch to cheaper drugs and that many do not understand the program. Another study found that Part D resulted in modest increases in average drug utilization and decreases in average out-of-pocket expenditures. Further studies by the same group of researchers found that the net impact among beneficiaries was a decrease in the use of generic drugs.\n\nA further study concludes that although a substantial reduction in out-of-pocket costs and a moderate increase in utilization among Medicare beneficiaries during the first year after Part D, there was no evidence of improvement in emergency department use, hospitalizations, or preference-based health utility for those eligible for Part D during its first year of implementation. It was also found that there were no significant changes in trends in the dual eligibles' out-of-pocket expenditures, total monthly expenditures, pill-days, or total number of prescriptions due to Part D.\n\nThe federal government is not permitted to negotiate Part D drug prices with drug companies, as federal agencies do in other programs. The Department of Veterans Affairs, which is allowed to negotiate drug prices and establish a formulary, has been estimated to pay between 40% and 58% less for drugs, on average, than Part D.\n\nEstimating how much money could be saved if Medicare had been allowed to negotiate drug prices, economist Dean Baker gives a \"most conservative high-cost scenario\" of $332 billion between 2006 and 2013 (approximately $50 billion a year). Economist Joseph Stiglitz in his book entitled \"The Price of Inequality\" estimated a \"middle-cost scenario\" of $563 billion in savings \"for the same budget window\".\n\nFormer Congressman Billy Tauzin, R–La., who steered the bill through the House, retired soon after and took a $2 million a year job as president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), the main industry lobbying group. Medicare boss Thomas Scully, who threatened to fire Medicare Chief Actuary Richard Foster if he reported how much the bill would actually cost, was negotiating for a new job as a pharmaceutical lobbyist as the bill was working through Congress. 14 congressional aides quit their jobs to work for related lobbies immediately after the bill's passage.\n\nIn response, free-market think tank Manhattan Institute issued a report by professor Frank Lichtenberg that said the VA National Formulary excludes many new drugs. Only 38% of drugs approved in the 1990s and 19% of the drugs approved since 2000 were on the formulary.\n\nIn 2012, the plan required Medicare beneficiaries whose total drug costs reach $2,930 to pay 100% of prescription costs until $4,700 is spent out of pocket. (The actual threshold amounts change year-to-year and plan-by-plan, and many plans offered limited coverage during this phase.) While this coverage gap does not affect the majority of program participants, about 25% of beneficiaries enrolled in standard plans find themselves in this gap. \n\nAs a candidate, Barack Obama proposed \"closing the 'doughnut hole'\" and subsequently proposed a plan to reduce costs for recipients from 100% to 50% of these expenses. The cost of the plan would be borne by drug manufacturers for name-brand drugs and by the government for generics.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4961623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4961623", "title": "Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism", "text": "Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism\n\nSouth Korea's Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism (MCST) is a central government agency responsible for the areas of tourism, culture, art, religion, and sports. It has two vice ministers, three assistant ministers, one commission, and over 60 divisions. The first Minister of Culture was novelist Lee O-young.\n\nSubsidiary entities such as the National Museum, the National Theater, and the National Library are under the Ministry. \n\nThe headquarters are located in the Sejong Government Complex in Sejong City. The headquarters was previously in Jongno District, Seoul.\n\nThe main goals of the MCST are:\n\nThe Ministry of Culture and Tourism was originally a suborganization of the Ministry of Education created in 1948. Later, the Ministry of Transportation set up a tourism department. The Ministry of Information was set up in 1961 for administration of art and cultural affairs. The Ministry of Culture and Information became the Ministry of Culture in 1990.\n\nIn 1993, the Ministry of Culture was integrated with the Ministry of Youth and Sports to become the Ministry of Culture and Sports. In 1998, as part of government reorganization efforts, the Ministry of Culture and Sports was replaced by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. It was created to invest in and support the entertainment industry, as Korea needed new areas of growth in the wake of the Asian financial crisis in the 1990s. \n\nPresident Kim Dae Jung put forth industrial policies supporting entertainment with the same regard as traditional industrial sectors such as manufacturing. Investments were made in both infrastructure and technology to support K-Pop, including concert halls and visual effects technology. In addition, government regulation of karaoke bars favored K-Pop.\n\nSince then, there has been a focus on developing soft power; the Ministry believes that by promoting Korean culture abroad, exports of other goods and services will also increase. As part of those efforts to move beyond developing a domestic industry and toward international success, the Ministry established an advisory committee and announced an international training school. Direct financial support of artists increased. In 2013, the Ministry allocated 319 billion won (280 million USD) for direct support of Hallyu (Korean Wave). Cultural exports increased at a annual rate of 10 percent as a result of these efforts.\n\n\nThe Korean Culture and Information Service is a department of the MCST that aims to bring Korean culture closer to the rest of the world while improving the national image of Korea. It is also responsible for setting up more than 20 Korean Cultural Centers around the world.\n\nDespite the large amounts of money the government provides for Hallyu, the K-Pop industry, the most internationally well-known part of Hallyu has criticized the Ministry's efforts. Many industries such as fashion and food have lobbied the government for inclusion in the Hallyu budget, and politicians and the bureaucracy also have varying interests in how the budget is distributed. Despite popular internet speculation on the Korean government’s financial support for the promotion of K-Pop, there are no figures to substantiate the speculation. In 2013 of the $230 million allocated for Hallyu there are itemized contributions to the promotion of the Korean language, culture and food but no known figures for allocations directly to K-Pop. Independent of financial support in recent years the Ministry has been successful in reversing decades-long governmental policy of suppressing and jailing pop and gayo artists in favor of supporting K-Pop as a driver of Hallyu overseas. \n\n"}
{"id": "33377034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33377034", "title": "Ministry of Economy (Lithuania)", "text": "Ministry of Economy (Lithuania)\n\nThe Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Lithuania () is a government department of the Republic of Lithuania. Its operations are authorized by the Constitution of the Republic of Lithuania, decrees issued by the president and prime minister, and laws passed by the Seimas (Parliament). Its mission is to develop positive legal and economic environment for economic development and ensure public welfare and employment.\n\nThe Ministry of Economy is responsible for handling government business in the following areas: business environment, export, innovation, state-owned enterprises (SOEs), EU support to business, public procurement and tourism.\n\n"}
{"id": "41883549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41883549", "title": "Ministry of Economy (Turkey)", "text": "Ministry of Economy (Turkey)\n\nThe Ministry of Economy () is a government department responsible for the economic affairs of the Republic of Turkey. It was established following the 2011 general election with Justice and Development Party (AKP) Member of Parliament Zafer Çağlayan being appointed as the first Minister of the Economy. The current minister, undersecretary, and deputy undersecretaries are Nihat Zeybekçi, İbrahim Şenel and Kadir Bal, respectively, .\n"}
{"id": "5471346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5471346", "title": "National Union Government (1945)", "text": "National Union Government (1945)\n\nThe National Union Government was a form of national government that governed the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg between 1945 and 13 February 1947, in the direct aftermath of the Second World War. During the war, Luxembourg was invaded, occupied, and annexed by Nazi Germany. Just one of the Luxembourgish casualties of the conflict was the pre-war political system; most of the established parties and alliances disappeared, and some of the leading politicians had lost their lives.\n\nAfter the liberation of the Grand Duchy in 1944, a temporary government comprising the CSV and the LSAP, dubbed the \" 'Liberation Government' \", took office. No election had been held and no Chamber of Deputies was in place, so there was no need for this government to seek a broad-based legislative coalition.\n\nHowever, after the war was concluded, Luxembourg returned to political chicanery. Legislative elections were held on 21 October 1945, and all four parties won over 5 seats and 10% of the vote each: the CSV, LSAP, GD, and KPL. However, the CSV came just short of an absolute majority, winning 25 seats out of 51.\n\nAtypically, Grand Duchess Charlotte decided to intervene in the political sphere, and asked CSV leader Pierre Dupong (who had been Prime Minister since 1937) to form a broader based coalition than Dupong had organised behind his Liberation Government. On 14 November, Dupong invited all four parties in the Chamber of Deputies to unite in his National Union Government. Dupong also included the only independent candidate in the cabinet. As a result, all 51 Deputies were taking the government whip.\n\nThe new government had much work to do, and, with no opposition in the legislature, was capable of instituting any plan, provided that the parties could agree policy between themselves. The departmental briefs were handed to cabinet members based upon personal preference. The composition of the first cabinet was:\n\nWith each member virtually free to decide departmental policy by himself, each took it upon himself to push forward his own pet projects. The CSV pushed for the annexation of those Luxembourgish territories lost to Prussia in the Napoleonic Wars. The LSAP ordered the nationalisation of the railways. The KPL sought to create a welfare state. This system of reign by ministerial diktat was not without its draw-backs.\n\nThe arrangement distanced the government from the population, which was forced to accept the patchwork of policies, even though over 40% of Luxembourgers had cast their vote for the CSV. Dupong had been revered as the leader of Luxembourg's government in exile, but his government was fomenting resentment. On 2 August 1946, four officers were arrested for allegedly plotting to overthrow the government. Although they were released without charge, it sent a clear message to the government.\n\nMoreover, ideological differences were forcing the government partners apart. The cabinet divided along ideological lines in exactly the manner that the National Union Government was supposed to prevent. Dupong took exception to the LSAP's plans for the railways, whilst the KPL and LSAP attempted to distance themselves from the CSV's irredentism.\n\nCharles Marx died on 13 June 1946 and was replaced by fellow Communist Party member Dominique Urbany eight days later. In addition, on 29 August, the cabinet was reshuffled, with the independent Guillaume Konsbruck replaced by Lambert Schaus, a CSV member. From that date, the cabinet was:\n\nThe Resistance-affiliated newspaper \"L'Indépendant\", edited by Norbert Gomand, had been one of the sharpest critics of the government-in-exile. Finally, the government took the newspaper to court for defamation, in a trial starting in early 1946.\n\nThe reshuffle, in favour of the CSV, appeased the right-wing dissidents and the two-fifths of the population that had voted the CSV. However, it could not even paper over the cracks of the coalition, and the relationship deteriorated over the winter of 1946-7. On 20 January 1947, Pierre Krier, the leader of the LSAP, died. Unable to hold together the coalition without one of its leading lights, the government handed in its resignation on 13 February. Its replacement was another Dupong-led coalition, but including only the CSV and GD. The LSAP would have to wait until 1951 to have another chance at governing. As of 2014, the Communists are still waiting.\n\n"}
{"id": "3414940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3414940", "title": "National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966", "text": "National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966\n\nThe act provided guidelines and directives for administration and management of all areas in National Wildlife Refuge system including \"wildlife refuges, areas for the protection and conservation of fish and wildlife that are threatened with extinction, wildlife ranges, game ranges, wildlife management areas, and waterfowl production areas.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30832098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30832098", "title": "No.1-class auxiliary patrol boat", "text": "No.1-class auxiliary patrol boat\n\nThe was a class of patrol boat (picket boat) of the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN), serving during World War II. 280 vessels were planned under the Maru Sen Programme (Ship # 2121–2400), however, only 27 vessels were completed before the end of the war.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2665819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2665819", "title": "Nuremberg and Vietnam", "text": "Nuremberg and Vietnam\n\nNuremberg and Vietnam: An American Tragedy is a book written by Telford Taylor, the Chief Counsel Prosecutor at the Nuremberg Trials.\n\nThe book \"Nuremberg and Vietnam: An American Tragedy\", published in 1970, is an examination of the United States' conduct of the Vietnam War in comparison to the actions taken by Nazi Germany during the Second World War. Its author, Telford Taylor, was once the Chief Counsel Prosecutor at the war crimes trials of Nazi leaders in Nuremberg, Germany from 1946–1949. In that capacity, Taylor helped to establish the laws by which Nazi war criminals would be tried for their crimes.\n\nThe book begins with a lengthy history of war crimes beginning with the \"knightly chivalry\" of the medieval period. These rules were put into place in order to minimize unnecessary cruelties during the course of warfare. The rules protected civilian populations from massacre and the needless spread of disease. Thus, the blanket of immunity that protects soldiers from being held criminally responsible for murder committed during the course of warfare had to be carefully balanced so as to discourage wartime atrocities.\n\nThe laws of war remained largely unwritten until U.S. President Abraham Lincoln approved the \"Instructions for the Government of Armies of the United States in the Field\", in 1863. Concerning spies, prisoners of war, and the punishment of war crimes, this document comprising 159 articles facilitated the formation of military tribunals and later led to a demand for the formalization of international laws of warfare. Thus, international laws of warfare were codified by means of a series of treaties known as the Hague and Geneva conventions. The most important consequence of these treaties is that all nations, whether signatory or otherwise, were bound by international laws of war.\n\nWhen \"Nuremberg and Vietnam: An American Tragedy\" was published, those in favor and opposition to the United States involvement in Vietnam frequently cited the Nuremberg trials in support of their positions. Those in favor of United States involvement argued that North Vietnam attacked South Vietnam in violation of Article 2 of the United Nations Charter; South Vietnam was justified in using force to repel such an attack; and this in turn allowed the United States to join with South Vietnam as provided by Article 51.\n\nHowever some would claim that the US and South Vietnamese actions in the Vietnam War would constitute \"aggressive warfare\" by the standards of Nuremberg. Taylor points out that the definition of \"aggressive warfare\" is ambiguous, thus severely hindering any attempt to determine which of the belligerent powers involved in the Vietnam War could be deemed the \"aggressor.\" What's more, such ambiguities lead to several related questions, such as the legality of refusing to serve in Vietnam. At the time, many conscientious objectors refused to serve in Vietnam on the grounds that their complicity in an illegal war made them, by implication, guilty of crimes against humanity.\nTaylor cites possible war crimes in regard to the Son My incident, which is more commonly known as the My Lai Massacre of 1968 . It is in this portion of the book that Taylor makes the most convincing comparison of Nuremberg to the Vietnam War. In this section, Taylor quotes two eyewitness accounts, each from a different war. One account, written by a German construction engineer, describes the killing of Jews during the Holocaust by German SS officers in 1942. This account is juxtaposed on the adjacent page by an eyewitness account of the My Lai Massacre. The accounts are eerily similar, yet Taylor explains all of the differences, and in characteristically unbiased fashion shows the difficulty in determining whether or not crimes were committed by the United States.\n\nTaylor also raises domestic problems with regard to the United States' involvement in the Vietnam War. According to Taylor, it remains to be seen whether the United States Congress or the Executive branch of government held responsibility for officially declaring military action in Vietnam. It is the opinion of Taylor that both the President and the Congress bear responsibility, and that the Vietnam War could only be ended by an act of national will, rather than by judicial means.\n\n\"Nuremberg and Vietnam: An American Tragedy\", is an account of the Vietnam War in regard to international law, written by an expert on the subject. It stands not as an accusation, but as an exposition of possible problems faced by the United States as a result of its involvement in the Vietnam War. The Nuremberg Trials are used more or less as a counterpoint, though this in itself shows that Taylor likely opposed the Vietnam War.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4253806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4253806", "title": "Ordinary Magic", "text": "Ordinary Magic\n\nOrdinary Magic is a 1993 Canadian film about a boy who is raised in India by his father. The story is based on the novel Ganesh by Malcolm Bosse with Canada substituting in the film for the book's Midwestern USA location. This marks the debut of Ryan Reynolds.\n\nJeffrey/Ganesh (Ryan Reynolds) has been raised with the ideals of social activism as part of his everyday life. His father spends the better part of their lives fighting for social justice in India. After his father dies, being only fifteen years old, Jeffrey is sent to a small town in Ontario to live with his aunt Charlotte (Glenne Headly). Through several comedic situations and with considerable effort, he manages to make friends and fit into his new, much smaller world of his. However, when his aunt receives an unfair eviction notice from her sleazy landlord (Paul Anka), every bit of his background and training comes into play, as he works with her to put on a well-publicized hunger strike, or Satyagraha, which wins the admiration of the local citizens.\n\nRotten Tomatoes does not have an official critics rating for this film, but Audience Scoring is at 83%, with an average rating of 3.5 out 5 stars.\n\n"}
{"id": "36373041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36373041", "title": "Party of Reason", "text": "Party of Reason\n\nThe Party of Reason (, PDV) is a libertarian political party in Germany founded in 2009 by the journalist and author Oliver Janich.\n\nThe party's policies are based on the Austrian School of economics. It campaigns for a minimal state, free markets, free banking and currency competition, decentralization of political power, subsidiarity and direct democracy. It rejects nationalism, racism and any kind of anti-democratic politics, whether from left or right, and censorship of the internet.\n\nIn September 2013, the PDV, together with libertarian parties from Spain (Party of Individual Freedom), France (Liberal Democratic Party) and the Netherlands (Libertarian Party) signed the Utrecht Declaration and Covenant of European Classical Liberal and Libertarian Parties, establishing the European Party for Individual Liberty (EPIL).\n\nIn 2011, the PDV participated in the local elections in Lower Saxony, winning one seat in the Flecken Harsefeld municipal council, two seats in the Samtgemeinde Harsefeld municipal council, and a further seat in the Bremervörde municipal council.\n\nHarald Ebert, member of the City council of Erding, and former member of the Free Democratic Party (FDP), joined the PDV in 2012.\n\nThe party's first participation in German state elections was in the 2012 North Rhine-Westphalia state election on 13 May 2012, but it did not secure any seats in the Landtag.\n\nThe PDV participated 2013 federal election on 22 September 2013, attaining ballot access in four states (Baden-Württemberg, Bavaria, North Rhine-Westphalia and Rhineland-Palatinate), and winning almost 25,000 second votes (0.1%). The party also fielded a number of direct candidates.\n\n"}
{"id": "4489693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4489693", "title": "President's Commission on Obscenity and Pornography", "text": "President's Commission on Obscenity and Pornography\n\nIn 1969, the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Stanley v. Georgia\" that people could view whatever they wished in the privacy of their own homes. In response, the United States Congress funded the President's Commission on Obscenity and Pornography, set up by President Lyndon B. Johnson to study pornography. \n\nThe Commission was established to study and report on:\n\nInitially, the Commission consisted of Edward E. Elson, Thomas D. Gill, Edward D. Greenwood, Reverend Morton A. Hill, S.J., G. William Jones, Joseph T. Klapper, Otto N. Larsen, Rabbi Irving Lehrman, Freeman Lewis, Reverend Winfrey C. Link, Morris A. Lipton, William B. Lockhart (chair), Thomas C. Lynch, Barbara Scott, Cathryn A. Speits, Frederick Herbert Wagman, Kenneth Keating and Marvin Wolfgang. \n\nSubsequently, K. Keating was replaced with Charles Keating, Jr, by President Richard Nixon.\n\nThe Commission commissioned Berl Kutchinsky to perform a scientific study on the subject. His report, titled \"Studies on Pornography and Sex Crimes in Denmark\" (1970), found that legalizing pornography in Denmark had not (as had been expected) resulted in an increase of sex crimes.\n\nThe Commission's report, called \"Report of the Commission on Obscenity and Pornography\", and published in 1970, recommended sex education, funding of research into the effects of pornography and restriction of children's access to pornography, and recommended against any restrictions for adults. On balance the report found that obscenity and pornography were not important social problems, that there was no evidence that exposure to such material was harmful to individuals, and that current legal and policy initiatives were more likely to create problems than solve them. \n\nThe report was widely criticized and rejected by Congress. The Senate rejected the Commission's findings and recommendations by a 60–5 vote, with 34 abstentions. The Senate rejected the following findings and recommendations in particular:\n\n\nPresident Nixon, who had succeeded Johnson in 1969, also emphatically rejected the report.\n\nIn 1970, Earl Kemp published an illustrated edition of the \"Presidential Report of the Commission on Obscenity and Pornography\" through a publishing company owned by William Hamling called Greenleaf Classics.\n\nThe 1969 President's Commission on Obscenity and Pornography issued its un-illustrated 656-page report on September 30, 1970. One month later, the report went on sale at the Government Printing Office. On November 11, 1970, copies of publisher William Hamling's Greenleaf Classics’ 352-page \"The Illustrated Presidential Report of the Commission on Obscenity and Pornography\" were printed, and two weeks later, on Monday, December 13, 1970, went on sale throughout the U.S. for $12.50.\n\nKemp and Hamling were eventually sentenced to prison for \"conspiracy to mail obscene material,\" but both served only the federal minimum.\n\nHamling received a four-year regular adult sentence. Earl Kemp received a sentence of three years and one day. The report as published by Greenleaf was not found to be obscene. Nonetheless, on the other hand the brochure was found to be clearly obscene by the jury. Of some note, Earl Kemp was in Europe at the time Hamling created and mailed the ad brochure.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52798588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52798588", "title": "Promotion of Putonghua", "text": "Promotion of Putonghua\n\nPromotion of Putonghua () is a movement led by the government of China since the Communist Party come to the power. Currently, the Promotion of Putonghua is led by State Language Work Committee (), a working organ which is the language regulator of People's Republic of China.\n\n"}
{"id": "55173417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55173417", "title": "Research in Social Stratification and Mobility", "text": "Research in Social Stratification and Mobility\n\nResearch in Social Stratification and Mobility is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal covering research on social stratification and inequality. It was established in 1981 and is published by Elsevier on behalf of the International Sociological Association's Research Committee 28 (abbreviated RC28) on Social Stratification and Mobility, of which it is the official journal. The editor-in-chief is Meir Yaish (University of Haifa). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.033.\n"}
{"id": "4105118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4105118", "title": "South African general election, 1961", "text": "South African general election, 1961\n\nThe 1961 South African general election, held on 18 October of that year, was the first general election after South Africa became a republic following the 1960 South African referendum. The National Party under Hendrik Frensch Verwoerd won a majority in the House of Assembly.\n\nThe National Union Party - led by J.D. du P. Basson and ex-Chief Justice Fagan in alliance with the United Party - had been formed as a \"bridge\" to the United Party for moderate nationalists who were unhappy with Verwoerd's leadership, but the party failed and later merged with the United Party.\n\nThis election also saw the first general election appearance of the liberal Progressive Party, which had broken away from the United Party in 1959. The new party retained one MP, in the form of Helen Suzman. She was to remain its sole parliamentary representative until 1974.\n\nDuring the previous Parliament the seats of the three MPs and four Senators representing black South Africans had been abolished. The 1961 election produced the first Parliament with no representation at all for black South Africans.\n\nThe second election for the four coloured representative members took place on 4 October 1961, before the (white voters only) general election on 18 October 1961. Under the Separate Representation of Voters Act 1951, the members were to serve until the dissolution of the new Parliament.\n\nThe four seats were won by Independents, with United Party support. The recently formed Progressive Party did not contest the four vacancies.\n\nThis was the first election after the passage of the Electoral Law Amendment Act, No. 30 of 1958, which reduced the voting age for white voters from 21 to 18.\n\nThe South Africa Act 1909 had provided for a delimitation commission to define the boundaries for each electoral division, for general roll voters in the four provinces. The representation by province, under the eleventh delimitation report of 1958, is set out in the table below. The figures in brackets are the number of electoral divisions in the previous (1953) delimitation. If there is no figure in brackets then the number was unchanged.\n\nThis was only the second general election, in South African history, where the boundaries were unchanged from the previous election.\n\nAt the end of the 12th Parliament elected since the Union of 1910, when it was dissolved in 1961, the House of Assembly consisted of two groups of members. White voters were represented by 156 general roll members and coloured voters in Cape Province by four white MPs known at the time as Coloured Representative Members (CRM).\n\nThe general election only affected the representatives of white voters. The other members were elected on a different date (see above).\n\nThe representation by party and province, at the dissolution was:- \n\nThe vote totals in the table below may not give a complete picture of the balance of political opinion, because of unopposed elections (where no votes were cast) and because contested seats may not have been fought by a candidate from all major parties.\n\nThe total registered electorate was 1,800,426. The votes cast were 802,079 (including 4,518 spoilt votes).\n\nThe overall composition of the House, after the general election.\n\n"}
{"id": "11519973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11519973", "title": "Sovereign", "text": "Sovereign\n\nThe word Sovereign is borrowed from Old French \"soverain\", which is ultimately derived from the Latin word \"superānus\", meaning \"above\". It is a title which can be given to people in various categories.\n\nThe roles of a sovereign vary from Monarch or Head of state to head of municipal government or head of a chivalric order. As a result, the word sovereign has more recently also come to mean independence or autonomy.\n\nThe word \"Sovereign\" is frequently used synonymously with Monarch. There are numerous titles in a monarchical rule which can belong to the sovereign. The sovereign is the autonomous head of the state. Examples of the various titles in modern sovereign leaders are:\n\nThe term \"Sovereign\" is generally used in place of \"Grand Master\" for the supreme head of various orders European nations. In the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, the Grand Master is styled \"Sovereign\", e.g. Sovereign Grand Master, due to its status as an internationally independent sovereign entity. Examples of the Sovereign of a chivalric order are: \n\nAs chief officer of municipal government, \"the Sovereign\" had duties and responsibilities deriving from the charter which established the local town borough or council. This was commonly used throughout Ireland. This usage was less common in the United Kingdom and occasionally meant a Marcher Lord.\n\nThe candidate for this position was elected by the freemen and burgesses of the town, borough and city councils and had to be a Burgess himself. And in later years he also had to be approved by the patron. The level of responsibility ranged from enacting by-laws about tolls up to the death penalty. Some charters established the sovereign as the local magistrate or Justice of the peace. The office generally had no salary though some patrons provided a stipend to the Sovereign in their borough. In some localities the sovereign was appointed directly by the patron of the borough which allowed him to influence the election of the local MP. Once the parliamentary franchise was lost with the Acts of Union 1800, the role became largely ceremonial or forgotten.\n\nThe title of the chief officer of a city council has become known as a Mayor. In some municipal boroughs the titles Borough Master or Burgomaster, Bailiff, Portreeve, Warden and Provost were used interchangeably with mayor and sovereign.\n\nIreland had established self-governing municipal boroughs which gave a city-state status to the locality in existence since the Norman conquest. These were most typically in the denser populated provinces of Munster and Leinster. The provision of the borough and the corporation was established through a charter, the granting of which was known as incorporation. Freemen and burgesses were the usual governing members of the council and elected their chief officer, the Sovereign. In earlier incarnations the council also managed the law court known as the \"hundred court\" and dealt with local administrative and legal business. Boroughs also elected the local MP. Positions on the council were predominantly from among the wealthy and related families in the area.\n\nThe first mention of the Sovereign in Kilkenny dates from 1231. The \"Liber Primus Kilkenniensis\" is a contemporaneously written account of the proceedings of Kilkenny municipality beginning in 1230 and running to 1538. Attempts have been made to identify the names of Kilkenny's sovereigns and currently there is a list of the names of 244 sovereigns from 1282 to 1608. At that point a new charter was established for the town and in 1609 the first Mayor of the City of Kilkenny is elected.\n\nEarly Irish borough had a city-state status however with the unification of Ireland under the crown in 1603 they were transformed into more ordinary municipal towns on the English model. Part of this was to reduce the autonomy of the Irish borough and partly to establish the new rules by which the planted towns of Ireland were to operate. Since the MPs to the Irish parliament were elected by the borough council, and to prevent a Catholic majority there, additional boroughs were created in areas with a strong Protestant base. A direct result of this was the Protestant majority of 232 to 100 in the 1613 House of Commons. The new charters placed the government of the borough with the Sovereign and twelve chief burgesses, who are to elect all the rest and stipulated that all had to conform to the established church by taking the Oath of Supremacy.\n\nSir John Davies, Attorney General for Ireland wrote \"the newly erected boroughs . . . will be perpetual seminaries of Protestant burgesses\".\n\nHistorically the number of boroughs varied considerably. There were 117 boroughs in Ireland from 1685 to 1800. Prior to the passing of the Municipal Corporations Act 1835, there were sixty-eight borough corporations in Ireland. As each of the changes and new charters were brought in and with the loss of the parliamentary franchise, sovereigns became less powerful and more ceremonial.\n\nThere is a sailing race held in Kinsale which references back to the chief officer of the town council. When looking to name a new trophy the local yacht club discovered that the ‘Sovereign of Kinsale’ used to put up a trophy for a sailing race in the late 1700s. The result is that the race and trophy today is known as The Sovereign's cup. Kinsale had been given its charter to set up a borough led by a Sovereign around 1319.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023819", "title": "Stateless nation", "text": "Stateless nation\n\nA stateless nation is a political term for an ethnic group or nation that does not possess its own state and is not the majority population in any nation state. The term \"stateless\" implies that the group \"should have\" such a state. Members of stateless nations may be citizens of the country in which they live, or they may be denied citizenship by that country. Stateless nations are usually not represented in international sports or in international organisations such as the United Nations. Nations without state are classified as fourth world nations. Some of the stateless nations have a history of statehood, some were always a stateless nation, dominated by another nation.\n\nThe term was coined in 1983 by political scientist Jacques Leruez in his book \"L'Ecosse, une nation sans Etat\" about the peculiar position of Scotland within the British state. It was later adopted and popularized by Scottish scholars such as David McCrone, Michael Keating and T.M. Devine.\n\nStateless nations either are dispersed across a number of states (for example, the Yoruba people are found in the African states of Nigeria, Benin and Togo) or form the native population of a province within a larger state (such as the Uyghur people in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region within the People's Republic of China). Some stateless nations historically had a state, which was absorbed by another; for example, Tibet's declaration of independence in 1913 was not recognized, and it was invaded in 1951 by the People's Republic of China which claims that Tibet is an integral part of China, while the Tibetan government-in-exile maintains that Tibet is an independent state under an unlawful occupation. Some ethnic groups were once a stateless nation that later became a nation state (for example, the nations of the Balkans such as the Croats, Serbs, Bosniaks, Slovenes, Montenegrins and Macedonians were once part of a multinational state of Yugoslavia; since the breakup of Yugoslavia many nation states were formed).\n\nStateless nations can have large populations ; for example the Kurds have an estimated population of over 30 million people, which make them one of the largest stateless nations. Multiple stateless nations can reside in the same geographical region or country; for example, Catalans, Basques, Aragonese, Galicians, Asturians, Valencians and Andalusians within Spanish State, or the Brahui, Rohingya, Assamese, Santhals, Maithils and Balochs in South Asia. However, not all peoples within multi-cultural states have the same awareness of being a stateless nation. In Spain, only Basques and Catalans have claimed their right of self-determination, which in the Basque country gave rise to the militant movement ETA, and in the case of Catalonia, has led to multiple attempts to secede from Spain during the past four centuries, as an independent Catalan Republic.\n\nAs not all states are nation states, there are ethnic groups who live in multinational states without being considered \"stateless nations\".\n\nThe symbiotic relationship between nations and states arose in early modern Western Europe (18th century) and it was exported to the rest of the world through colonial rule. Whereas the Western European nation-states are at present relinquishing some of their powers to the European Union, many of the former colonies are now the zealous defenders of the concept of national-statehood.\n\nOnly a small fraction of the world's national groups have associated nation-states. The proportion was estimated to be 3 percent by Minahan. The rest are distributed in one or more states. Of the 192 member states of the United Nations in 2006, fewer than 20 are nation-states. Thus nation-states are not as common as often assumed, and stateless nations are the overwhelming majority of nations in the world.\n\nDuring the imperial and colonial era, powerful nations extended their influence outside their homeland and this resulted in many colonized nations ceasing to be self-governing and have since been described as stateless nations. Some nations have been victims of \"carve out\" and their homeland was divided among several countries. Even today the colonial boundaries form modern national boundaries. These often differ from cultural boundaries. This results in situations where people of the same language or culture are divided by national borders, for example New Guinea splits as West Papua (former Dutch colony) and Papua New Guinea (former British colony). During decolonization, the colonial powers imposed a unified state structure irrespective of the ethnic differences and granted independence to their colonies as a multinational state. This led to successor states with many minority ethnic groups in them, which increased the potential for ethnic conflicts. Some of these minoritiy groups campaigned for self-determination. Stateless nations were not protected in all countries and become victims of atrocities such as discrimination, ethnic cleansing, genocide, forced assimilation, Exploitation of labour and natural resources.\n\nPeople with a common origin, history, language, culture, customs or religion can turn into a nation by awakening of national consciousness. A nation can exist without a state, as is exemplified by the stateless nations. Citizenship is not always the nationality of a person. In a multinational state different national identities can coexist or compete: for example, in Britain both English nationalism and Scottish nationalism exist and are held together by British nationalism. Nationalism is often connected to separatism, because a nation achieves completeness through its independence.\n\nThroughout history, numerous nations declared their independence, but not all succeeded in establishing a state. Even today, there are active autonomy and independence movements around the world. The claim of the stateless nations to self-determination is often denied due to geopolitical interests and increasing globalization of the world. Stateless nations sometimes show solidarity with other stateless nations and maintain diplomatic relations.\n\nNot all peoples claim that they are nations or aspire to be states. Some see themselves as part of the multinational state and they believe that their interests are well represented in it. This is also associated with Pan-nationalism (Indian nationalism or Chinese nationalism).\n\nThe following is a list of stateless nations that meet these criteria:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42682228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42682228", "title": "Strengthening Education through Research Act", "text": "Strengthening Education through Research Act\n\nThe Strengthening Education through Research Act () or \"SETRA\" is a bill that would amend and reauthorize the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002 and would authorize the appropriation of $615 million for fiscal year 2015 and $3.8 billion over the 2015-2019 period to support federal educational research, statistical analysis, and other activities.\n\nThe bill was introduced into the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress.\n\nThe bill would reauthorize the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002. The bill would authorize the State Longitudinal Data System grant program.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Budget Office, as ordered reported by the House Committee on Education and the Workforce on April 8, 2014. This is a public domain source.\" \n\nH.R. 4366 would amend and reauthorize the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002 through fiscal year 2020. (This authorization would automatically be extended one year through 2021 under the General Education Provisions Act.) The bill would authorize the appropriation of $615 million for fiscal year 2015 and $3.8 billion over the 2015-2019 period to support federal educational research, statistical analysis, and other activities.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that implementing the bill would cost $2.0 billion over the 2015-2019 period, assuming the appropriation of the authorized amounts. Enacting the bill would have no impact on direct spending or revenues; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures do not apply.\n\nH.R. 4366 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act.\n\nThe Strengthening Education through Research Act was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on April 2, 2014 by Rep. Todd Rokita (R, IN-4). It was referred to the United States House Committee on Education and the Workforce. The bill was reported (amended) on April 29, 2014 alongside House Report 113-424. The bill was scheduled to be voted on under suspension of the rules on May 7, 2014.\n\nThe Council for Exceptional Children, the National Center for Learning Disabilities, and the Higher Education Consortium for Special Education praised the bill because it \"values the critical role of research in developing effective practices to support positive outcomes for children and youth with disabilities.\" However, according to the organizations, \"actual funding amounts listed in the legislation remain inadequate to sufficiently address the nation’s special education research needs. This limited investment, coming as the result of rules adopted by the U.S. House of Representatives intended to rein in spending, is not enough to restore funding and increase the impact of future NCSER and special education research.\"\n\nThe Data Quality Campaign (DQC) was in favor of the bill, because it would \"permit states to use federal funds to turn their attention to the important task of transforming the data they now collect into useful information and ensuring that key stakeholders have access to this tailored, timely, contextual information.\" DQC says that it \"sees immense value in the ability to link data across early childhood education, K-12, postsecondary, and workforce systems,\" because it allows researchers to answer more complex questions that require data from multiple sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "266410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266410", "title": "Sykes–Picot Agreement", "text": "Sykes–Picot Agreement\n\nThe Sykes–Picot Agreement , officially known as the Asia Minor Agreement, was a secret 1916 agreement between the United Kingdom and France, to which the Russian Empire assented. The agreement defined their mutually agreed spheres of influence and control in Southwestern Asia. The agreement was based on the premise that the Triple Entente would succeed in defeating the Ottoman Empire during World War I. The negotiations leading to the agreement occurred between November 1915 and March 1916 and it was signed 16 May 1916. The deal, exposed to the public in \"Izvestia\" and \"Pravda\" on 23 November 1917 and in the British \"Guardian\" on November 26, 1917, is still mentioned when considering the region and its present-day conflicts.\n\nThe agreement allocated to Britain control of areas roughly comprising the coastal strip between the Mediterranean Sea and the River Jordan, Jordan, southern Iraq, and an additional small area that included the ports of Haifa and Acre, to allow access to the Mediterranean. France got control of southeastern Turkey, northern Iraq, Syria and Lebanon. Russia was to get Istanbul, the Turkish Straits and Armenia. The controlling powers were left free to determine state boundaries within their areas. Further negotiation was expected to determine international administration in the \"brown area\" (an area including Jerusalem, similar to and smaller than Mandate Palestine), the form of which was to be decided upon after consultation with Russia, and subsequently in consultation with the other Allies, and the representatives of Hussein bin Ali, Sharif of Mecca.\n\nThe agreement effectively divided the Ottoman Arab provinces outside the Arabian peninsula into areas of British and French control and influence. In the Levant, it was initially used directly as the basis for the 1918 Anglo–French Modus Vivendi which agreed a framework for the Occupied Enemy Territory Administration. More broadly it was to lead, indirectly, to the subsequent partitioning of the Ottoman Empire following Ottoman defeat in 1918. \n\nThe Acre-Haifa zone was intended to be a British enclave in the North to enable access to the Mediterranean. The British later gained control of the brown zone and other territory in 1920 and ruled it as Mandatory Palestine from 1923 until 1948. They also ruled Mandatory Iraq from 1920 until 1932, while the French Mandate for Syria and the Lebanon lasted from 1923 to 1946. The terms were negotiated by British diplomat Mark Sykes and a French counterpart, François Georges-Picot. The Tsarist government was a minor party to the Sykes–Picot agreement, and when, following the Russian Revolution, the Bolsheviks published the agreement on 23 November 1917, \"the British were embarrassed, the Arabs dismayed and the Turks delighted\".\n\nThe agreement is seen by many as a turning point in Western and Arab relations. It negated the UK's promises to Arabs made for a national Arab homeland in the area of Greater Syria, in exchange for supporting the British against the Ottoman Empire.\n\nIn the Constantinople Agreement earlier in 1915, following the start of naval operations in the run up to the Gallipoli Campaign the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergey Sazonov, wrote to the French and UK ambassadors and staked a claim to Constantinople and the Straits of Dardanelles. In a series of diplomatic exchanges over five weeks, the UK and France both agreed, while putting forward their own claims, to an increased sphere of influence in Iran in the case of the UK and to an annex of Syria (including Palestine) and Cilicia for France. The UK and French claims were both agreed, all sides also agreeing that the exact governance of the Holy Places was to be left for later settlement. Although this agreement was ultimately never implemented because of the Russian revolution, it was in force as well as a direct motivation for it at the time the Sykes–Picot Agreement was being negotiated.\n\nThe report of the De Bunsen Committee, prepared to determine British wartime policy toward the Ottoman Empire, and submitted in June 1915, concluded that, in case of the partition or zones of influence options, there should be a British sphere of influence that included Palestine while accepting that there were relevant French and Russian as well as Islamic interests in Jerusalem and the Holy Places.\n\nOn 21 October 1915, Grey met Cambon and suggested France appoint a representative to discuss the future borders of Syria as Britain wished to back the creation of an independent Arab state. At this point Grey was faced with competing claims from the French and from Hussein and the day before had sent a telegram to Cairo telling the High Commissioner to be as vague as possible in his next letter to the Sharif when discussing the northwestern, Syrian, corner of the territory Husein claimed and left McMahon with \"discretion in the matter as it is urgent and there is not time to discuss an exact formula\", adding, \"If something more precise than this is required you can give it.\"\n\nMark Sykes had been dispatched on instructions of the War Office at the beginning of June to discuss the Committee's findings with the British authorities in the Near and Middle East and at the same time to study the situation on the spot. He went to Athens, Gallipoli, Sofia, Cairo, Aden, Cairo a second time and then to India coming back to Basra in September and a third time to Cairo in November (where he was appraised of the McMahon–Hussein Correspondence) before returning home on 8 December and finally delivering his report to the War Committee on 16 December.\n\nThe first meeting of the British interdepartmental committee headed by Sir Arthur Nicolson with François Georges-Picot had already taken place on 23 November 1915. Picot informed the Nicolson committee that France claimed the possession of land starting from where the Taurus Mts approach the sea in Cilicia, following the Taurus Mountains and the mountains further East, so as to include Diabekr, Mosul and Kerbela, and then returning to Deir Zor on the Euphrates and from there southwards along the desert border, finishing eventually at the Egyptian frontier. Picot, however, added that he was prepared \"to propose to the French government to throw Mosul into the Arab pool, if we did so in the case of Bagdad\".\n\nA second meeting of the Nicolson committee with Picot took place on 21 December 1915 wherein Picot said that he had obtained permission to agree to the towns of Aleppo, Hama, Homs and Damascus being included in the Arab dominions to be administered by the Arabs. Although the French had scaled back their demands to some extent, the British also claimed to want to include Lebanon in the future Arab State and this meeting also ended at an impasse.\n\nOn 28 December, Mark Sykes informed Clayton that he had \"been given the Picot negotiations\". On 3 January 1916, an initialled memorandum was forwarded to the Foreign Office and after having been circulated for comments, An interdepartmental conference was convened by Nicolson on 21 January. On 16 January, Sykes told the Foreign office that he had spoken to Picot and that he thought Paris would be able to agree. Following the meeting, a final draft agreement was circulated to the cabinet on 2 February, the War Committee considered it on the 3rd and finally at a meeting on the 4th between Bonar Law, Mr. Chamberlain, Lord Kitchener and others where it was decided that:\n\nM. Picot may inform his government that the acceptance of the whole project would entail the abdication of considerable British interests, but provided that the cooperation of the Arabs is secured, and that the Arabs fulfil the conditions and obtain the towns of Homs, Hama, Damascus and Aleppo, the British Government would not object to the arrangement. But, as the Blue Area extends so far Eastwards, and affects Russian interests, it would be absolutely essential that, before anything was concluded, the consent of Russia was obtained.\n\nPicot was informed and 5 days later Cambon told Nicolson that \"the French government were in accord with the proposals concerning the Arab question\".\n\nLater, in February and March, Sykes and Picot acted as advisors to Sir George Buchanan and the French ambassador respectively, during negotiations with Sazonov. Eventually, Russia having agreed (for a price, as it obtained large portions of Ottoman territory in the bargain, including Constantinople and the Straits) on 26 April 1916, the final terms were sent by Paul Cambon, the French Ambassador in London, to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Edward Grey, on 9 May 1916, and ratified in Grey's reply on 16 May 1916.\n\nWhile Sykes and Picot were in negotiations, discussions were proceeding in parallel between Cairo and Hussein (the McMahon-Hussein Correspondence); Hussein's reply of 1 January to McMahon's 14 December 1915 was received at the Foreign Office, McMahon’s cover stating:\n\nSatisfactory as it may be to note his general acceptance for the time being of the proposed relations of France with Arabia, his reference to the future of those relations adumbrates a source of trouble which it will be wise not to ignore. I have on more than one occasion brought to the notice of His Majesty's Government the deep antipathy with which the Arabs regard the prospect of French Administration of any portion of Arab territory. In this lies considerable danger to our future relations with France, because difficult and even impossible though it may be to convince France of her mistake, if we do not endeavour to do so by warning her of the real state of Arab feeling, we may hereafter be accused of instigating or encouraging the opposition to the French, which the Arabs now threaten and will assuredly give.\n\nAfter discussions, Grey instructed that the French be informed of the situation although Cambon did not take the matter that seriously.\n\nHussein's letter of 18 February 1916 appealed to McMahon for £50,000 in gold plus weapons, ammunition and food claiming that Feisal was awaiting the arrival of \"not less than 100,000 people\" for the planned revolt and McMahon's reply of 10 March 1916 confirmed the British agreement to the requests and concluded the ten letters of the correspondence. In April and May, there were discussions initiated by Sykes as to the merits of a meeting to include Picot and the Arabs to mesh the desiderata of both sides. At the same time, logistics in relation to the promised revolt were being dealt with and there was a rising level of impatience for action to be taken by Hussein. Finally, at the end of April, McMahon was advised of the terms of Sykes-Picot and he and Grey agreed that these would not be disclosed to the Arabs.\n\nThe Arab revolt was officially initiated by Hussein at Mecca on 10 June 1916 although his sons ‘Ali and Faisal had already initiated operations at Medina starting on 5 June. The timing had been brought forward by Hussein and, according to Cairo, \"Neither he nor we were at all ready in early June, 1916, and it was only with the greatest of difficulty that a minimum of sufficient assistance in material could be scraped together to ensure initial success.\"\n\nColonel Edouard Brémond was dispatched to Arabia in September 1916 as head of the French military mission to the Arabs. According to Cairo, Brémond was intent on containing the revolt so that the Arabs might not in any way threaten French interests in Syria. These concerns were not taken up in London, British-French cooperation was thought paramount and Cairo made aware of that. (Wingate was informed in late November that \"it would seem desirable to impress upon your subordinates the need for the most loyal cooperation with the French whom His Majesty’s Government do not suspect of ulterior designs in the Hijaz\".)\n\nAs 1916 drew to a close, the Asquith government which had been under increasing pressure and criticism mainly due to its conduct of the war, gave way on 6 December to David Lloyd George who had been critical of the war effort and had succeeded Kitchener as Secretary of State for War after his untimely death in June. Lloyd George had wanted to make the destruction of the Ottoman Empire a major British war aim, and two days after taking office told Robertson that he wanted a major victory, preferably the capture of Jerusalem, to impress British public opinion. The EEF were, at the time, in defensive mode at a line on the Eastern edge of the Sinai at El Arish and 15 miles from the borders of Ottoman Palestine. Lloyd George \"at once\" consulted his War Cabinet about a \"further campaign into Palestine when El Arish had been secured\". Pressure from Lloyd George (over the reservations of Chief of the General Staff) resulted in the capture of Rafa and the arrival of British forces at the borders of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nLloyd George set up a new small War Cabinet initially comprising Lords Curzon and Milner, Bonar Law, Arthur Henderson and himself; Hankey became the Secretary with Sykes, Ormsby-Gore and Amery as assistants. Although Balfour replaced Grey as Foreign Secretary, his exclusion from the War Cabinet and the activist stance of its members weakened his influence over foreign policy.\n\nThe French chose Picot as French High Commissioner for the soon to be occupied territory of Syria and Palestine. The British appointed Sykes as Chief Political Officer to the Egyptian Expeditionary Force. On 3 April 1917, Sykes met with Lloyd George, Curzon and Hankey to receive his instructions in this regard, namely to keep the French onside while pressing for a British Palestine. First Sykes in early May and then Picot and Sykes together visited the Hejaz later in May to discuss the agreement with Faisal and Hussein. Hussein was persuaded to agree to a formula to the effect that the French would pursue the same policy in Syria as the British in Baghdad; since Hussein believed that Baghdad would be part of the Arab State, that had eventually satisfied him. Later reports from participants expressed doubts about the precise nature of the discussions and the degree to which Hussein had really been informed as to the terms of Sykes–Picot.\n\nItaly's participation in the war, governed by the Treaty of London, eventually led to the Agreement of Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne in April 1917; at this conference, Lloyd George had raised the question of a British protectorate of Palestine and the idea \"had been very coldly received\" by the French and the Italians. The War Cabinet, reviewing this conference on 25 April, \"inclined to the view that sooner or later the Sykes–Picot Agreement might have to be reconsidered ... No action should be taken at present in this matter\".\n\nIn between the meetings with Hussein, Sykes had informed London that \"the sooner French Military Mission is removed from Hedjaz the better\" and then Lord Bertie was instructed to request the same from the French on the grounds that the mission was hostile to the Arab cause and which \"cannot but prejudice Allied relations and policy in the Hedjaz and may even affect whole future of French relations with the Arabs\". After the French response to this, on 31 May 1917, William Ormsby-Gore wrote:\nThe British Government, in authorising the letters despatched to King Hussein [Sharif of Mecca] before the outbreak of the revolt by Sir Henry McMahon, would seem to raise a doubt as to whether our pledges to King Hussein as head of the Arab nation are consistent with French intentions to make not only Syria but Upper Mesopotamia another Tunis. If our support of King Hussein and the other Arabian leaders of less distinguished origin and prestige means anything it means that we are prepared to recognize the full sovereign independence of the Arabs of Arabia and Syria. It would seem time to acquaint the French Government with our detailed pledges to King Hussein, and to make it clear to the latter whether he or someone else is to be the ruler of Damascus, which is the one possible capital for an Arab State, which could command the obedience of the other Arabian Emirs.\nIn a further sign of British discontent with Sykes-Picot, in August, Sykes penned a \"Memorandum on the Asia Minor Agreement\" that was tantamount to advocating its renegotiation else that it be made clear to the French that they \"make good – that is to say that if they cannot make a military effort compatible with their policy they should modify their policy\". After many discussions, Sykes was directed to conclude with Picot an agreement or supplement to Sykes-Picot (\"Projet d'Arrangement\") covering the \"future status of the Hejaz and Arabia\" and this was achieved by the end of September. However, by the end of the year, the agreement had yet to be ratified by the French Government.\n\nThe Balfour Declaration along with its potential claim in Palestine was in the meantime issued on 2 November and the British entered Jerusalem on December 9, with Allenby on foot 2 days later accompanied by representatives of the French and Italian detachments.\n\nRussian claims in the Ottoman Empire were denied following the Bolshevik Revolution and the Bolsheviks released a copy of the Sykes–Picot Agreement (as well as other treaties). They revealed full texts in \"Izvestia\" and \"Pravda\" on 23 November 1917; subsequently, the \"Manchester Guardian\" printed the texts on November 26, 1917. This caused great embarrassment between the allies and growing distrust between them and the Arabs. The Zionists had previously confirmed the details of the Agreement with the British government, earlier in April.\nWilson had rejected all secret agreements made between the Allies and promoted open diplomacy as well as ideas about self-determination. On 22 November 1917, Leon Trotsky, addressed a note to the ambassadors at Petrograd \"containing proposals for a truce and a democratic peace without annexation and without indemnities, based on the principle of the independence of nations, and of their right to determine the nature of their own development themselves\". Peace negotiations with the Quadruple Alliance – Germany, Austria–Hungary, Bulgaria and Turkey – started at Brest–Litovsk one month later. On behalf of the Quadruple Alliance, Count Czernin, replied on 25 December that the \"question of State allegiance of national groups which possess no State independence\" should be solved by \"every State with its peoples independently in a constitutional manner\", and that \"the right of minorities forms an essential component part of the constitutional right of peoples to self- determination\".\n\nIn his turn, Lloyd George delivered a speech on war aims on 5 January, including references to the right of self-determination and \"consent of the governed\" as well as to secret treaties and the changed circumstances regarding them. Three days later, Wilson weighed in with his Fourteen Points, the twelfth being that \"the Turkish portions of the present Ottoman Empire should be assured a secure sovereignty, but the other nationalities which are now under Turkish rule should be assured an undoubted security of life and an absolutely unmolested opportunity of autonomous development\".\n\nOn December 23, 1917, Sykes (who had been sent to France in mid-December to see what was happening with the Projet d'Arrangement) and a representative of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs had delivered public addresses to the Central Syrian Congress in Paris on the non-Turkish elements of the Ottoman Empire, including liberated Jerusalem. Sykes had stated that the accomplished fact of the independence of the Hejaz rendered it almost impossible that an effective and real autonomy should be refused to Syria. However, the minutes also record that the Syrian Arabs in Egypt were not happy with developments and absent a clearer, less ambiguous statement in regard to the future of Syria and Mesopotamia then the Allies as well as the King of the Hedjaz would lose much Arab support.\n\nSykes was the author of the Hogarth Message a secret January 1918 message to Hussein following his request for an explanation of the Balfour Declaration and the Bassett Letter was a letter (also secret) dated 8 February 1918 from the British Government to Hussein following his request for an explanation of the Sykes–Picot Agreement.\n\nThe failure of the Projet d'Arrangement reflected poorly on Sykes and following on from the doubts about his explanations of Sykes-Picot to Hussein the previous year, weakened his credibility on Middle Eastern affairs throughout 1918. Still (at his own request, now Acting Adviser on Arabian and Palestine Affairs at the Foreign Office) he continued his criticism of Sykes-Picot, minuting on 16 February that \"the Anglo–French Agreement of 1916 in regard to Asia Minor should come up for reconsideration\" and then on 3 March, writing to Clayton, \"the stipulations in regard to the red and blue areas can only be regarded as quite contrary to the spirit of every ministerial speech that has been made for the last three months\".\n\nOn 28 March 1918 the first meeting of the newly formed Eastern Committee was held, chaired by Curzon.\n\nIn May, Clayton told Balfour that Picot had, in response to a suggestion that the agreement was moot, \"allowed that considerable revision was required in view of changes that had taken place in the situation since agreement was drawn up\", but nevertheless considered that \"agreement holds, at any rate principle\".\n\nThe British issued the Declaration to the Seven on June 16 the first British pronouncement to the Arabs advancing the principle of national self-determination.\n\nOn 30 September 1918, supporters of the Arab Revolt in Damascus declared a government loyal to the Sharif of Mecca. He had been declared King of the Arabs by a handful of religious leaders and other notables in Mecca.\n\nThe Anglo-French Declaration of November 1918 pledged that Great Britain and France would \"assist in the establishment of indigenous Governments and administrations in Syria and Mesopotamia\" by \"setting up of national governments and administrations deriving their authority from the free exercise of the initiative and choice of the indigenous populations\". The French had reluctantly agreed to issue the declaration at the insistence of the British. Minutes of a British War Cabinet meeting reveal that the British had cited the laws of conquest and military occupation to avoid sharing the administration with the French under a civilian regime. The British stressed that the terms of the Anglo–French declaration had superseded the Sykes–Picot Agreement in order to justify fresh negotiations over the allocation of the territories of Syria, Mesopotamia, and Palestine.\n\nGeorge Curzon said the Great Powers were still committed to the Règlement Organique agreement, which concerned governance and non-intervention in the affairs of the Maronite, Orthodox Christian, Druze, and Muslim communities, regarding the Beirut Vilayet of June 1861 and September 1864, and added that the rights granted to France in what is today modern Syria and parts of Turkey under Sykes–Picot were incompatible with that agreement.\n\nAt the French embassy in London on Sunday December 1, David Lloyd George and Clemenceau had a private meeting where the latter surrendered French rights to Mosul and to Palestine that had been given by the Sykes–Picot Agreement. There are conflicting views as to whether or not France received anything in exchange. Although Lloyd George and others have suggested that nothing was given in return, according to Rutledge and others, Lloyd George promised at least one or even all of, support for French claims on the Ruhr, that when oil production in Mosul began, France would receive a share and that Sykes–Picot obligation would be maintained as regards Syria.\n\nThe Eastern Committee met nine times in November and December to draft a set of resolutions on British policy for the benefit of the negotiators.\nOn 21 October, the War Cabinet asked Smuts to prepare the peace brief in summary form and he asked Erle Richards to carry out this task resulting in a \"P-memo\" for use by the Peace Conference delegates. The conclusions of the Eastern Committee at page 4 of the P-memo included as objectives the cancellation of Sykes–Picot and supporting the Arabs in their claim to a state with capital at Damascus (in line with the McMahon-Hussein Correspondence).\n\nAt the Peace Conference, which officially opened on 18 January, The Big Four (initially, a \"Council of Ten\" comprising two delegates each from Britain, France, the United States, Italy and Japan) agreed, on 30 January, the outlines of a Mandate system (including three levels of Mandate) later to become Article 22 of the League Covenant. The Big Four would later decide which communities, under what conditions and which Mandatory.\n\nMinutes taken during a meeting of The Big Four held in Paris on March 20, 1919 and attended by Woodrow Wilson, Georges Clemenceau, Vittorio Emanuele Orlando as well as Lloyd George and Lord Balfour, explained the British and French points of view concerning the agreement. It was the first topic brought up during the discussion of Syria and Turkey, and formed the focus of all discussions thereafter.\n\nThe Anglo-French Declaration was read into the minutes, Pichon commenting that it showed the disinterested position of both governments in regard to the Arabs and Lloyd George that it was \"more important than all the old agreements\". Pichon went on to mention a scheme of agreement of 15 February based on the private agreement reached between Clemenceau and Lloyd George the previous December. (According to Lieshout, just before Faisal made his presentation to the conference on the 6th, Clemenceau handed Lloyd George a proposal which appears to cover the same subject matter; Lieshout having accessed related British materials dated the 6th whereas the date in the minutes is unsourced.)\n\nIn the subsequent discussions, France staked its claim to Syria (and its mandate) while the British sought to carve out the Arab areas of zones A and B arguing that France had implicitly accepted such an arrangement even though it was the British that had entered into the arrangement with the Arabs.\n\nWilson intervened and stressed the principle of consent of the governed whether it be Syria or Mesopotamia, that he thought the issues involved the peace of the world and were not necessarily just a matter between France and Britain. He suggested that an Inter-Allied Commission be formed and sent out to find out the wishes of local inhabitants in the region. The discussion concluded with Wilson agreeing to draft a Terms of Reference to the Commission.\n\nOn 21 April, Faisal left for the East. Before he left, on 17 April Clemenceau sent a draft letter, in which the French government declared that they recognized \"the right of Syria to independence in the form of a federation of autonomous governments in agreement with the traditions and wishes of the populations\", and claimed that Faisal had recognized \"that France is the Power qualified to render Syria the assistance of various advisors necessary to introduce order and realise the progress demanded by the Syrian populations\" and on 20 April, Faisal assured Clemenceau that he had been \"Deeply impressed by the disinterested friendliness of your statements to me while I was in Paris, and must thank you for having been the first to suggest the dispatch of the inter-allied Commission, which is to leave shortly for the East to ascertain the wishes of the local peoples as to the future organisation of their country. I am sure that the people of Syria will know how to show you their gratitude.\"\n\nMeanwhile, as of late May, the standoff between the French and the British as to disposition of forces continued, the French continued to press for a replacement of British by French troops in Syria amid arguments about precise geographical limits of same and in general the relationship suffered; after the meeting on the 21st, Lloyd George had written to Clemenceau and cancelled the Long–Bérenger Oil Agreement (a revised version of which had been agreed at the end of April) claiming to have known nothing about it and not wanting it to become an issue while Clemenceau claimed that had not been the subject of any argument.\n\nIn June 1919, the American King–Crane Commission arrived in Syria to inquire into local public opinion about the future of the country. After many vicissitudes, \"mired in confusion and intrigue\",\"Lloyd George had second thoughts...\", the French and British had declined to participate.\n\nThe Syrian National Congress had been convened in May 1919 to consider the future of Greater Syria and to present Arab views contained in a July 2 resolution to the King-Crane Commission.\n\nThe Peace treaty with Germany was signed on 28 June and with the departure of Wilson and Lloyd George from Paris, the result was that the Turkey/Syria question was effectively placed on hold.\n\nOn 15 September, the British handed out an Aide Memoire (which had been discussed privately two days before between Lloyd George and Clemenceau ) whereby the British would withdraw their troops to Palestine and Mesopotamia and hand over Damascus, Homs, Hama and Aleppo to Faisal's forces. While accepting the withdrawal, Clemenceau continued to insist on the Sykes–Picot agreement as being the basis for all discussions.\n\nOn 18 September, Faisal arrived in London and the next day and on the 23rd had lengthy meetings with Lloyd George who explained the Aide Memoire and British position. Lloyd George explained that he was \"in the position of a man who had inherited two sets of engagements, those to King Hussein and those to the French\", Faisal noting that the arrangement \"seemed to be based on the 1916 agreement between the British and the French\". Clemenceau, replying in respect of the Aide Memoire, refused to move on Syria and said that the matter should be left for the French to handle directly with Faisal.\n\nFaisal arrived Paris on 20 October and eventually on 6 January 1920 Faisal accepted a French mandate \"for the whole of Syria\", while France in return consented \"to the formation of an Arab state that included Damascus, Homs, Hama and Aleppo, and was to be administered by the Emir with the assistance of French advisers\" (acknowledged \"the right of Syrians to unite to govern themselves as an independent nation\".). In the meantime, British forces withdrew from Damascus on 26 November.\n\nFiasal returned to Damascus on 16 January and Millerand took over from Clemenceau on the 20th. A Syrian National Congress meeting in Damascus declared an independent state of Syria on the 8th of March 1920. The new state intended to include portions of Syria, Palestine, and northern Mesopotamia. Faisal was declared the head of State. At the same time Prince Zeid, Faisal's brother, was declared Regent of Mesopotamia.\n\nIn April 1920, the San Remo conference handed out Class A mandates over Syria to France, and Iraq and Palestine to Britain. The same conference ratified an oil agreement reached at a London conference on 12 February, based on a slightly different version of the Long Berenger agreement previously initialled in London on 21 December.\n\nFrance had decided to govern Syria directly, and took action to enforce the French Mandate of Syria before the terms had been accepted by the Council of the League of Nations. The French issued an ultimatum and intervened militarily at the Battle of Maysalun in June 1920. They deposed the indigenous Arab government, and removed King Faisal from Damascus in August 1920. Great Britain also appointed a High Commissioner and established their own mandatory regime in Palestine, without first obtaining approval from the Council of the League of Nations, or obtaining the formal cession of the territory from the former sovereign, Turkey.\n\nIn November 1914, the British had occupied Basra. According to the report of the de Bunsen Committee, British interests in Mesopotamia were defined by the need to protect the western flank of India and protect commercial interests including oil. The British also became concerned about the Berlin-Baghdad Railway. Although never ratified, the British had also initialled the Anglo-Ottoman Convention of 1913.\n\nAs part of the Mesopotamian Campaign, on 11 March 1917, the British entered Baghdad, the Armistice of Mudros was signed on 30 October 1918 although the British continued their advance, entering Mosul on the 14 November.\n\nFollowing the award of the British Mandate of Mesopotamia at San Remo, the British were faced with an Iraqi revolt against the British from July through February 1921 as well as a Kurdish revolt in Northern Iraq. Following the Cairo conference it was decided that Faisal should be installed as ruler in Mandatory Iraq.\n\nAs originally cast, Sykes-Picot allocated part of Northern Kurdistan and a substantial part of the Mosul vilayet including the city of Mosul to France in area B, Russia obtained Bitlis and Van in Northern Kurdistan (the contemplated Arab State included Kurds in its Eastern limit split between A and B areas). Bowman says there were around 2.5 million Kurds in Turkey, mainly in the mountain region called Kurdistan.\n\nSharif Pasha presented a \"Memorandum on the Claims of the Kurd People\" to the Paris peace Conference in 1919 and the suppressed report of the King–Crane Commission also recommended a form of autonomy in \"the natural geographical area which lies between the proposed Armenia on the north and Mesopotamia on the south, with the divide between the Euphrates and the Tigris as the western boundary, and the Persian frontier as the eastern boundary\".\n\nThe Russians gave up territorial claims following the Bolshevik revolution and at the San Remo conference, the French were awarded the French Mandate of Syria and the English the British Mandate of Mesopotamia. The subsequent Treaty of Sèvres potentially provided for a Kurdish territory subject to a referendum and League of Nations sanction within a year of the treaty. However the Turkish War of Independence led to the treaty being superseded by the Treaty of Lausanne in which there was no provision for a Kurdish State.\n\nThe end result was that the Kurds, along with their Assyrian neighbors, were included in the territories of Turkey, Iraq, Syria and Iran.\n\nMany sources contend that Sykes-Picot conflicted with the Hussein–McMahon Correspondence of 1915–1916 and that the publication of the agreement in November 1917 caused the resignation of Sir Henry McMahon. There were several points of difference, the most obvious being Iraq placed in the British red area and less obviously, the idea that British and French advisors would be in control of the area designated as being for an Arab State. Lastly, while the correspondence made no mention of Palestine, Haifa and Acre were to be British and the brown area (a reduced Palestine) internationalised.\n\nLeading up to the centenary of Sykes-Picot in 2016, great interest was generated among the media and academia concerning the long-term effects of the agreement. The agreement is frequently cited as having created \"artificial\" borders in the Middle East, \"without any regard to ethnic or sectarian characteristics, [which] has resulted in endless conflict.\" The extent to which Sykes-Picot actually shaped the borders of the modern Middle East is disputed.\n\nThe Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) claims one of the goals of its insurgency is to reverse the effects of the Sykes–Picot Agreement. \"This is not the first border we will break, we will break other borders,\" a jihadist from the ISIL warned in a video titled \"End of Sykes-Picot\". ISIL's leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, in a July 2014 speech at the Great Mosque of al-Nuri in Mosul, vowed that \"this blessed advance will not stop until we hit the last nail in the coffin of the Sykes–Picot conspiracy\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39573527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39573527", "title": "The Captive (2014 film)", "text": "The Captive (2014 film)\n\nThe Captive, formerly Queen of the Night and Captives, is a 2014 Canadian thriller film directed by Atom Egoyan with a script he co-wrote with David Fraser. The film stars Ryan Reynolds, Scott Speedman, Rosario Dawson, Mireille Enos, Kevin Durand, and Alexia Fast. It was selected to compete for the Palme d'Or in the main competition section at the 2014 Cannes Film Festival. The film was released in select theaters and on demand on December 12, 2014.\n\nThe film has a nonlinear presentation, and only context differentiates the current scenes from the flashbacks. Additionally, although the film takes place over eight years, all of the scenes take place during winter for dramatic effect.\n\nAt a police station in Niagara Falls, Ontario, homicide detective Jeffrey Cornwall is sitting down for a job interview with Nicole Dunlop, who works in the Internet Child Exploitation Unit. He recoils in disgust after seeing the images related to an open case, but Nicole advises him these are the types of images he will have to see every day and not look away from.\n\nMeanwhile, local contractor Matthew Lane picks up his 9-year-old daughter, Cassandra, after her figure skating practice. On the way home, Matthew stops to pick up pie, leaving Cassandra in his truck. Minutes later, he returns to find her missing. He reports the abduction to the police station, where Jeffrey and Nicole are assigned to the case. They are skeptical of his story, which infuriates him. Cassandra's mother, Tina Lane, arrives and breaks down in a fit of fury directed at Matthew.\n\nEight years later, Matthew and Tina are estranged, while Nicole and Jeffrey are romantically involved. Tina still provides details to the police but Matthew, initially a target of suspicion himself, has become a vigilante in the search for Cassandra.\n\nMeanwhile, the whole time, Cassandra has been held captive in the home of a child pornographer named Mika, who has installed remote cameras in the rooms where Tina works as a chambermaid. Although he leaves his house to work and is no longer sexually interested in the now-teenaged Cassandra, the fear that he will harm her parents constrains her from escaping or seeking help.\n\nA break in the case comes when Jeffrey finds recent photos of Cassandra online. More begin to appear as Mika has her tell stories on camera, hoping they will help lure in younger children.\n\nNicole poses as a child, which allows her and Jeffrey to trick a child molester named Willy to reveal himself. The arrests of Willy and others in his group catapult Nicole into the public eye.\n\nMika visits Willy in prison and urges him not to take any deals for cooperation. Willy says he will only comply if someone kidnaps Nicole and forces her to reveal whatever details of her past may have inspired her to pursue child protection. Mika initially dismisses the request as unfeasible, but ultimately complies.\n\nMika decides to watch an encounter between Cassandra and her father. When Matthew is transporting trees in his truck, Mika goes to the motel where he is sleeping and sets up the trees so that they lead to a clearing in the road. Matthew follows the trail in the morning which leads him to Cassandra. Shocked to see her, he begins a rushed discussion with her. Cassandra resists the opportunity to get in the truck, and Matthew cannot figure out why until Mika appears and tranquilizes him.\n\nCassandra begins chatting online with a young girl, trying to entice her to meet. When Nicole arrives home, she is horrified to see Jeffrey is so desperate to find Cassandra that he is using his own niece as bait to infiltrate the child porn community. Mika turns the webcam back on to watch their fight and reconsiders Willy's offer.\n\nAt a dinner where Nicole is being honored, a disguised woman doing Mika's bidding pours a sedative into Nicole's drink. As Nicole is collapsing, the woman offers her a ride home. After getting in the car with Nicole, she removes a wig revealing herself to be an accomplice of Mika's named Vicky.\n\nMika locks Nicole in a van and tells her to tell her story into a microphone. Meanwhile, Vicky travels to the ice skating arena, where she questions Cassandra's former skating partner, Albert, questions about their tradition of wearing mismatched skates, their trophy, and the impact on Albert of his partner's disappearance.\n\nMatthew overhears them and becomes suspicious. He follows Vicky to a restaurant, where she replays her and Albert's recorded conversation for Mika. Matthew calls Jeffrey with the location and says that he'll plant his phone's GPS on the suspects' vehicle.\n\nOnce inside, Matthew acts disruptive, goading the diner staff to summon the police. He confronts the abductors to buy more time and steals Vicky's cell phone, causing her and Mika to chase him after he leaves. In the ensuing chase, Vicky shoots at Matthew's truck.\n\nAfter the chase concludes, Jeffrey is able to get a fix on Mika's house through the GPS tracking on Matthew's phone. A team arrives to rescue Cassandra, resulting in Vicky and Mika's deaths, and leaving Nicole's whereabouts unknown.\n\nThe Lane family is finally reunited. Later, a search team arrives at the van where Nicole is trapped and rescues her. The movie ends with Cassandra ice skating and smiling.\n\nThe shooting of the film began in February 2013 in Sudbury, Ontario. Ahead of its première on 16 May 2014 at the Cannes Film Festival, distributor A24, in partnership with DirecTV, purchased the U.S. rights to the film.\n\nThe first official US trailer for the film was released on July 10, 2014. A second trailer was released on November 18, 2014.\n\nBefore its release, the film had been received negatively. Justin Chang from \"Variety\" described it as \"a ludicrous abduction thriller that finds a once-great filmmaker slipping into previously un-entered realms of self-parody\". Peter Bradshaw from \"The Guardian\" commented, \"it looks worryingly as if Egoyan has taken a serious issue and burdened it to breaking point and beyond with his own indulgent, naïve and exploitative fantasies\". Steven Zeitchik of the \"Los Angeles Times\" compliments moments when the film \"hints at emotions and mysteries with a delightful subtlety for a while\", but remarks that it includes \"some wild plots and conspiracies that wouldn't be out of place in the most fantastical spy novel\".\n\nThe film has a Rotten Tomatoes rating of 31% based on 49 reviews, with its consensus stating: \"Wan and lugubrious, \"The Captive\" represents another atmospheric, beautifully filmed misfire from director Atom Egoyan.\" The film's Metacritic score is 36 out of 100 based on 19 reviews.\n\nThe film received a limited release in Canada on September 5, 2014 and earned a total of $450,000. The film was released on DirecTV\non November 13, 2014 due to A24's partnership with DirecTV. The film was released in select theaters and on demand beginning on December 12, 2014 in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "22013660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22013660", "title": "The European Alliance of EU-critical Movements", "text": "The European Alliance of EU-critical Movements\n\nThe European Alliance of EU-critical Movements or TEAM is a cooperation between Eurosceptic or EU-critical associations in various countries of Europe, including both non-partisan associations and political parties.\n\nThe coordinator of TEAM is currently Jesper Morville from the Danish People's Movement against the EU.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6875598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6875598", "title": "The Republican War on Science", "text": "The Republican War on Science\n\nThe Republican War on Science is a 2005 book by Chris C. Mooney, an American journalist who focuses on the politics of science policy. In the book, Mooney discusses the Republican Party leadership's stance on science, and in particular that of the George W. Bush administration, with regard to issues such as global warming, the creation–evolution controversy, bioethics, alternative medicine, pollution, separation of church and state, and the government funding of education, research, and environmental protection. The book argues that the administration regularly distorted and/or suppressed scientific research to further its own political aims.\n\nThe book was reviewed in \"Science\" and \"Nature Medicine\" as well as the popular press. It was featured on the cover of \"The New York Times Book Review\" and selected as an \"Editors' Choice\" by \"The New York Times\" which described it as, \"A frankly polemical survey of scientific findings and procedures in collision with political operations.\"\n\nFilmmaker Morgan Spurlock (of \"Super Size Me\" fame) optioned the rights for the book to create a documentary film, but in 2008 announced that he had released the option.\n\nA review in \"Science\" by Naomi Oreskes states the author recounts the 20-year campaign by \"influential Republicans—initially in Congress and now also in the White House—in concert with determined allies in private industry and fundamentalist Christian organizations\" to systematically deny, disparage and misrepresent scientific information related to public policy. She gave the following list of topics, \"acid rain, global warming, the efficacy of condoms in preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases, the health impacts of excess dietary sugar and fat, the alleged link between abortion and breast cancer, the status of endangered species, the efficacy of abstinence-only sex education programs, the therapeutic potential of adult stem cells, and more.\" Oreskes goes on to detail the tactics used in the attempt to mislead both the public and politicians, \"misrepresenting real debates, exaggerating uncertainty, interfering with the activities of expert agencies, trumpeting the views of outlier scientists whose interpretations are rarely to be found in the refereed literature, and attacking the integrity of genuine experts.\" She states that Mooney points out that multiple misinformation campaigns have involved the same individuals and groups. Oreskes concludes, \"Mooney's book makes it clear that when sensible people stand on the sidelines, a great deal of nonsense can be spread.\"\n\nMichael Stebbins wrote in \"Nature Medicine\" that \"This book should serve as a harsh wake-up call to the scientific community and the American public.\" He stated that Mooney \"painstakingly documents the roots of the efforts to undercut the influence of science on national policy and the relentless politicization of US science policy by conservatives working on behalf of the Republican Party.\" He notes that the author clearly documents the \"Bush administrations' attacks on the integrity of science information\" listing examples that include some of those mentioned by Oreskes and \"undercutting the Clean Air Act and the Endangered Species Act, and stacking agencies and advisory committees with unqualified ideologues.\" Stebbins credits the book with providing context by detailing the tactics employed by \"conservative Republicans\" and establishing the roots of these undercutting techniques with examples from the last 40 years. He goes on to state, \"Mooney's documentation of the willful manipulation of science on the part of conservatives to suit an agenda is well supported and nauseating.\" Stebbins addresses two criticisms of the book, the first, that it doesn't explain the science involved, which he explains is not the purpose of the book, and the second, that it doesn't detail the misuse of science by democrats and liberals, which he dismisses as untrue. He finds issue with the last chapter, which proposes solutions, stating, \"His suggestions are sound and well thought out, but seem more of an afterthought than a real goal of the book.\"\n\nDaniel Sarewitz panned the book in a review in \"Issues in Science and Technology\" describing it as a, \"tiresome polemic masquerading as a defense of scientific purity.\"\n\nIn a positive review in \"Scientific American\" Boyce Rensenberger described the book as, \"a well-researched, closely argued and amply referenced indictment of the right wing's assault on science and scientists.\" Lisa Margonelli of \"The New York Times Book Review\" wrote that Mooney, \"juggled extensive research and sharp arguments [...] with precision and a showman’s wink that made his unpromising subject fun.\"\n\nKeay Davidson wrote in the \"Washington Post\" that \"Mooney's political heart is in the right place\" but says \"Mooney is like a judge who interprets a law one way to convict his enemies and another way to acquit his friends.\"\n\nWriting in \"The New York Times\", John Horgan said of the book that the prose was \"often clunky and clichéd\", but explains that Mooney \"addresses a vitally important topic and gets it basically right.\" Horgan defends the book against another reviewer's criticism, saying \"the journalist Keay Davidson faults Mooney for not acknowledging how hard it can be to distinguish good science from bad... But in many of the cases that [Mooney] examines, demarcation is easy, because one side has an a priori commitment to something other than the truth — God or money, to put it bluntly.\"\n\nStuart Derbyshire, a senior lecturer at the University of Birmingham School of Psychology, praises Mooney and notes that he explained how Republicans had manipulated the uncertainty in science \"to ensure that Congress rarely hears any consensus opinion that may damage a Bush policy.\" Derbyshire agrees with Mooney's claim that there is Republican \"flagrant twisting\" of research findings and that it \"violates the integrity of science.\"\n\nMooney was interviewed about the book on \"Science Friday\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57831112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57831112", "title": "Trudoden", "text": "Trudoden\n\nTrudoden () was a unit of value and type of accounting of quantity and quality of labor (as a factor of production) in collective farms (kolkhozes) of the Soviet Union in 1930 – 1966. It literally means a day of labor. It also was a form of wage payments.\n\nMembers of collective farms were paid based on the amount of trudodni (plural form) earned. Payments to the collective farm members were made with natural products such as grain when and if they were able to realize their products.\n\n"}
{"id": "2494999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494999", "title": "Valencian Left", "text": "Valencian Left\n\nValencian Left (in Valencian: \"Esquerra Valenciana\") is a nationalist Valencian leftist party founded in the Valencian Community, founded in April, 1998 a group of ex-members of Unitat del Poble Valencià (Valencian People's Union) formed left this party and went to form a new political group using the vacant name of the historical \"Esquerra Valenciana\".\n\nEV's current president is Robert Mora.\n\nThe dissidentgroup of members of Unitat del Poble Valencià who disagreed with UPV refounding itself as the Bloc Nacionalista Valencià (Valencian Nationalist Group) (BNV) and went to form their own political party under the EV acronym.\n\nIt defined itself as a party \"of the National, Republican Left of the Valencian Community; that fights for political sovereignty and defends the free confederation of this territory with Catalonia and the Balearic Islands\". In 2001 unsuccessful attempts were made towards a merger or alliance with Republican Left of the Valencian Country (ERPV). The agreement granted to the members of Valencian Esquerra (EV) a chair in the executive committee of ERPV for each 12 members who joined her. Later the new alliance would have stood under the designation EV-ERPV. EV took part in the 2003 Valencian Community elections as part of l'Entesa electoral coalition, together with Esquerra Unida and the Green Party of the Land of Valencia. Although l'Entesa obtained 6 deputies not one of them was a member of EV. In the European elections of 2004 they were part of the Europa dels Pobles (Europe of the People) list together with ERC, Aralar and Chunta Aragonesista (other regional parties of the Spanish state).\n\n"}
{"id": "39698797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39698797", "title": "Women in Sweden", "text": "Women in Sweden\n\nThe status and rights of Women in Sweden has been affected by culture, religion and social discourses such as by the strong feminist movement as well as laws, and changed several times through the history of Sweden.\n\nDuring the Viking Age, women had a relatively free status in the Nordic countries of Sweden, Denmark and Norway, illustrated in the Icelandic Grágás and the Norwegian Frostating laws and Gulating laws. \nThe paternal aunt, paternal niece and paternal granddaughter, referred to as \"odalkvinna\", all had the right to inherit property from a deceased man. In the absence of male relatives, an unmarried woman with no son could further more inherit the position as head of the family from a deceased father or brother: a woman with such status was referred to as \"ringkvinna\", and she exercised all the rights afforded to the head of a family clan, such as the right to demand and receive fines for the slaughter of a family member, until she married, by which her rights were transferred to her husband. After the age of 20, an unmarried woman, referred to as \"maer\" and \"mey\", reached legal majority and had the right to decide of her place of residence and was regarded as her own person before the law. An exception to her independence was the right to choose a marriage partner, as marriages was normally arranged by the clan. Widows enjoyed the same independent status as unmarried women.\n\nWomen had religious authority and were active as priestesses (\"gydja\") and oracles (\"sejdkvinna\"); they were active within art as poets (\"skalder\") and rune masters, and as merchants and medicine women. They may also have been active within military office: the stories about shieldmaidens is unconfirmed, but some archaeological finds such as the Birka female Viking warrior may indicate that at least some women in military authority existed. \nA married woman could divorce and remarry. It was also socially acceptable for a free woman to cohabit with a man and have children with him without marrying him, even if that man was married: a woman in such a position was called \"frilla\". There was no distinction made between children born inside or outside of marriage: both had the right to inherit property after their parents, and there was no \"legitimate\" or \"illegitimate\" children. These rights gradually disappeared from the local county laws after Christianization in the 11th century.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the status and rights of women varied between different parts of the country, as the local county laws applied different laws in different counties. The first attempt of a national law was \"Magnus Erikssons landslag\" from 1350, which established one law for the country side, and one \"Stadslagen\" (City Law) for the city, a system which was kept by the \"Kristofers landslag\" from 1442. From 1350 onward, the civil status of women were generally the same in both the county law and the city law: an unmarried woman was under the coverture of her closest male relative, and a wife under the coverture of her husband, while a widow was of legal majority.\n\nIn 1608, the law texts of the Old Testament from the bible were introduced in the law by amendments, which at least formally significantly worsened women's status. There was, however, a gap between law and practice: despite the fact that unmarried women were legal minors and only widows had the right to represent themselves in court, unmarried women were still in practice allowed to give testimony, sue and represent themselves in court matters, to such a degree that a law reform granted them this right in 1686 to legalize what was already common procedure.\nFrom the \"Magnus Erikssons landslag\" of 1350 onward, daughters in the country side inherited half as much as sons. From 1686, the Swedish Church Law 1686 obliged every parish in the country side to provide elementary education to all children regardless of gender, usually provided by the vicar or a teacher employed by the vicarage.\n\nIn the country side, professions were regulated by custom rather than laws. When unmarried, a woman from the peasantry would be expected by social custom to serve in the household of another peasant family as a \"piga\" (maid), which was regarded as a way to learn household experience before marriage and was not seen as servitude: when married, the wives of farmers, fishermen and miners all traditionally participated alongside their husbands in their professions, handled them alone in their absence and, if their husbands died without an adult son, in their own name as widows. \nAt least since the 17th century and until the 19th century, women were known to labor as miners and blacksmiths, referred to as \"gruvpiga\" (Maid of the Mine).\nThe custom of a wife acting as the proxy of her husband afforded considerable independence to women especially during the 17th century, when the men were called to serve in numerous wars and their wives were left behind to manage the family affairs in their absence, which was the case both with the wives of common farmer-soldiers as well as with the wives of noblemen, who were left with the responsibility of wast estates and parishes and the task to act as channels to the crown for the estate dependents. In the local community, the wives of the parish vicars had a strong position as a sort of caretaker of the parish social welfare, a position maintained by the system of Widow Conservation until the 19th century.\n\nFrom the \"Magnus Erikssons landslag\" of 1350, the city law granted daughters and sons equal inheritance rights. In the Swedish Church Ordinance 1571, the city law encouraged parents to provide primary education to their children regardless of sex, and from the late 16th century onward, the city schools are confirmed to have accepted girls, though normally only in the first classes. Ursula Agricola from Strasbourg and Maria Jonae Palmgren from Grenna, however, were both accepted at Visingsö Gymnasium (school) in the 1640s.\n\nFrom the 14th century until the \"Fabriks och Handtwerksordning\" and \"Handelsordningen\" of 1846, many professions in the cities were monopolized by the guilds. Women were, however, not excluded from guild membership. Widows became members with the license to practice the profession of their late spouse until remarriage: they could also be given a permit to practice some other trade. Formally, many guilds excluded married and unmarried women, however in practice there are numerous examples of married and unmarried female guild members. There were also exclusively female guilds, such as that of the midwives and that of the Rower woman. In 1460, 180 female guild members were listed for the city of Stockholm: the profession is not stated for the majority of them, but when it is, the most common professions for city women were brewer, baker, seamstress and washer woman, professions which continued to be common for city women in the following centuries.\nThere were also professions outside of the guilds, such as the profession of \"Mursmäcka\". A woman regardless of personal status could purchase a permit, to be active within trade of export and import without guild membership and be a \"Kontingentborgare\". The city also issued the permit of \"månglare\". This was a permit to manufacture and, or, sell goods which was not included in the guild monopolies from stands in the square or in the street, often old clothes, ornaments, jam and cakes, and from 1623, such permits was issued only to those who could prove that they had no other way to support themselves. Such persons were normally women: either widows, or married women whose husbands was unable to support them.\n\nThe first law to apply the same rights to all women in the entire country by national law (including Finland, then a Swedish province), was the Civil Code of 1734, which, in the question of women's status, was in place more or less unaltered until the second half of the 19th century. In the Civil Code of 1734, all unmarried women were defined as legal minors regardless of age, and placed under the guardianship of their closest male relative (or mother, if the mother was widowed). She was given the right to contest her guardian in court and have another appointed by the court, and when adult, she had the right to make a will. Finally, an unmarried woman could be liberated from guardianship by a petition to the monarch. Upon the day of her marriage, she was placed under the coverture of her husband. However, men was banned from selling the property of their wife without her consent, wives were given the right to sell property and handle affairs in the absence of her husband, and both spouses regardless of gender were secured the right to divorce upon adultery, upon which the innocent party was secured custody of the children. When widowed (or divorced), a woman regardless of age reached legal majority.\n\nThe Guild Regulation of 1720 explicitly granted women permission to be active within the Guilds, and there were several amendments added to it which favored women's professional rights, most of them issued by local city authorities to make it possible for destitute women to support themselves, notably the reform of 1741 dropping guild membership requirement for innkeepers, and the reform of 1749, in which the permit to engage in street- and market trade in Stockholm were to be issued in favor of poor women, reforms which made two very common professions for poor women more accessible.\n\nIn 1741, a reform abolished the Public humiliation punishment of \"Uppenbar kyrkoplikt\" for unmarried mothers to prevent infanticide, and in 1778, the Infanticide Act (Sweden) was introduced: in order to spare unmarried mothers from the social stigma which was the common motive for them to kill their infants, mothers were allowed to travel to a place where they were unknown by the community and give birth anonymously, midwives were forbidden to expose their identity, and should they decide to keep their child, their unmarried status was to be hidden by the authorities to spare them social embarrassment.\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment in many ways offered a more public role for women in Sweden, especially within the artistic professions, and women were officially recognized: Eva Ekeblad was inducted in the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Ulrika Pasch in the Royal Swedish Academy of Arts, and Elisabeth Olin in the Royal Swedish Academy of Music.\n\nNumerous schools for girls were founded in the 18th century: in 1786, \"Societetsskolan\", the first serious educational institution for females, was founded. An achievement to arouse attention was that of Aurora Liljenroth, who graduated from the gymnasium of Visingsö in 1788.\n\nIn the first half of the 19th century, a population growth, in combination with changes in society caused by the economic crisis of the Napoleonic Wars and the industrialization, resulted in a growing number of unmarried women, for which the traditional role to support themselves by marriage was not available. Schools open to females normally offered a shallow education of accomplishments, focused on making their students ideal wives and mothers, and virtually the only profession open for an educated woman was that of a governess or a teacher in a private girls school.\n\nBy the 1840s, there was an ongoing debate as to how to provide women with an opportunity to support themselves as useful productive members of society should they fail to marry, without having to rely on the charity of relatives or resort to crime. The customary shallow education was harshly criticized, and in 1842, girls were included in the compulsory primary education school system. In parallel, under the pressure of the public debate, the old shallow private girl schools were gradually replaced by a new type of private secondary education schools for females, with the task to provide them with education useful for a professional life: in 1842, there were only five such schools in Sweden, but a rapid expansion from that point on resulted in the existence of such schools in most Swedish cities already in the 1870s.\n\nThe argument of the reformists in parliament, that more professions should be open for women to make it possible for unmarried women to support themselves, caused a row of reforms in women's rights: equal inheritance rights in 1845; equal rights within trade and commerce (1846) and the professions of teacher in the public school system (1853), Feldsher, organist and dentist (1861) and positions at the telegraph- and postal offices (1863). \nEach of these reforms gave the reformists in parliament arguments for further reforms, arguing that it was the responsibility of the state, who had granted women these new rights, to provide them with the education and the juridical status necessary to handle them. As a consequence, in 1858-63, unmarried women were granted legal majority, and after the recommendations made by the radical Girl School Committee of 1866, the profession of a doctor and the right for women to attend university was finally introduced.\n\nThe 19th century signified the organization of women to participate in public life and social reform: initially, from the foundation of the \"Välgörande fruntimmerssällskapet\" in 1819 onward, women organized in civil charitable organizations, which became an acceptable way for a woman to play a public role and achieve social reform, and women became known public role models as social reformers, such as Emilie Petersen, Sophia Wilkens and Maria Cederschiöld (deaconess), which lay the foundation for women's participation in public life.\n\nWomen's organization, initially charitable, took a more radical form when the feminist movement was established. In 1848, Sophie Sager aroused controversy when reporting a rape attempt and winning the case in court, after which she became the first woman in Sweden to tour and make public speeches in favor of feminism. In 1855, women arguably organized for the first time to deal with an issue within women's rights, when Josefina Deland founded the \"Svenska lärarinnors pensionsförening\" (The Society for Retired Female Teachers) to provide for retired female teachers and governesses, and from 1856, the \"Tidskrift för hemmet\" became the first regular feminist spokes organ. During the second half of the century, the women's movement organized with the Married Woman's Property Rights Association (1873) and the Fredrika-Bremer-Förbundet (1884), and started to make demands of their own.\nFrom the 1880s, women such as Emilie Rathou, Elma Danielsson, Alina Jägerstedt and Kata Dahlström engaged in the temperance movement, the working class movement, the trade unions and the political press and media.\n\nIn 1902, the National Association for Women's Suffrage was formed to achieve the final reform in women's civil rights: women suffrage. \nAnother important goal at this point was to make it possible for women to access the same professions as men on higher levels, which was denied them even when they had the necessary education. Women were for example able to be a university professor or a doctor in a hospital, but only in private institutions, as positions at such levels in state institutions had civil servant status, which was a fact which prevented women from using their education in equal competition with men. \nIn 1909, an important step was made when the phrase \"Swedish \"man\"\" was removed from the application forms to public offices and civil servant occupations, which lifted a number of professional bars and gave women access to many professional opportunities which had until then been denied them even when they had the necessary education.\n\nIn 1919-21, women suffrage was finally introduced, which also necessitated a reform in which also married women were finally liberated from the guardianship of their spouses and granted legal majority in 1920. \nThe women suffrage reform was followed by the \"Behörighetslagen\" (Act of Eligibility) of 1923, in which males and females were formally guaranteed equal access to all professions and positions in society, the only exceptions being military and priesthood positions. \nThe last two restrictions were removed in 1958, when women were allowed to become priests, and in a series of reforms between 1980 and 1989, when all military professions were opened to women.\n\nFeminism in Sweden dates back to the 17th century and has been discussed in intellectual circles throughout the 18th century. Since Hedvig Charlotta Nordenflycht's famous poem \"Fruntimrens försvar\" (To the Defense of Women, 1761) debate on gender roles and gender equality has become a mainstream topic. Since then, Sweden has remained a forerunner of gender equality driven by a both intellectual and practical feminist movement.\n\nToday, with its increasing multiculturalism, Swedish society has embraced third-wave feminism. Sweden's Feminist Initiative became the second feminist political party (after Miljöpartiet) to win a parliamentary mandate in the 2014 European elections, rediscussing feminism from a decisively antiracist perspective that includes the perspectives of people of color.\n\nDuring the Age of Liberty (1718–1772), Sweden had conditional women suffrage. Until the reform of 1865, the local elections consisted of mayoral elections in the cities, and elections of parish vicars in the countryside parishes. The \"Sockenstämma\" was the local parish council who handled local affairs, in which the parish vicar presided and the local peasantry assembled and voted, an informally regulated process in which women are reported to have participated already in the 17th century. The national elections consisted of the election of the representations to the Riksdag of the Estates.\n\nSuffrage was gender neutral and therefore applied to women as well as men if they filled the qualifications of a voting citizen. These qualifications were changed during the course of the 18th century, as well as the local interpretation of the credentials, affecting the number of qualified voters: the qualifications also differed between cities and countryside, as well as local or national elections. \nInitially, the right to vote in local city elections (mayoral elections) was granted to every \"burgher\", which was defined as a taxpaying citizen with a guild membership. Women as well as men were members of guilds, which resulted in women suffrage for a limited number of women. \nIn 1734, suffrage in both national and local elections, in cities as well as countryside, was granted to every property owning taxpaying citizen of legal majority. This extended suffrage to all taxpaying property owning women whether guild members or not, but excluded married women and the majority of unmarried women, as married women were defined as legal minors, and unmarried women were minors unless they applied for legal majority by royal dispensation, while widowed and divorced women were of legal majority. The 1734 reform increased the participation of women in elections from 55 to 71 percent.\n\nBetween 1726 and 1742, women voted in 17 of 31 examined mayoral elections. Reportedly, some women voters in mayoral elections preferred to appoint a male to vote for them by proxy in the city hall because they found it embarrassing to do so in person, which was cited as a reason to abolish women suffrage by its opponents. The custom to appoint to vote by proxy was however used also by males, and it was in fact common for men, who were absent or ill during elections, to appoint their wives to vote for them.\nIn 1758, women were excluded from mayoral elections by a new regulation by which they could no longer be defined as burghers, but women suffrage was kept in the national elections as well as the country side parish elections. Women participated in all of the eleven national elections held up until 1757. In 1772, women suffrage in national elections was abolished by demand from the burgher estate. Women suffrage was first abolished for taxpaying unmarried women of legal majority, and then for widows.\nHowever, the local interpretation of the prohibition of women suffrage varied, and some cities continued to allow women to vote: in Kalmar, Växjö, Västervik, Simrishamn, Ystad, Åmål, Karlstad, Bergslagen, Dalarna and Norrland, women was allowed to continue to vote despite the 1772 ban, while in Lund, Uppsala, Skara, Åbo, Gothenburg and Marstrand, women were strictly barred from the vote after 1772.\n\nWhile women suffrage was banned in the mayoral elections in 1758 and in the national elections in 1772, no such bar was ever introduced in the local elections in the country side, were women therefore continued to vote in the local parish elections of vicars. In a series of reforms in 1813-1817, unmarried women of legal majority, \"Unmarried maiden, who has been declared of legal majority\", were given the right to vote in the \"sockestämma\" (local parish council, the predecessor of the communal and city councils), and the \"kyrkoråd\" (local church councils).\n\nIn 1823, a suggestion was raised by the mayor of Strängnäs to reintroduce women suffrage for taxpaying women of legal majority (unmarried, divorced and widowed women) in the mayoral elections, and this right was reintroduced in 1858.\n\nIn 1862, tax-paying women of legal majority (unmarried, divorced and widowed women) were again allowed to vote in municipal elections, making Sweden the first country in the world to grant women the right to vote. This was after the introduction of a new political system, were a new local authority was introduced: the communal municipal council. The right to vote in municipal elections applied only to people of legal majority, which excluded married women, as they were juridically under the guardianship of their husbands. In 1884 the suggestion to grant women the right to vote in national elections was initially voted down in Parliament. During the 1880s, the Married Woman's Property Rights Association had a campaign to encourage the female voters, qualified to vote in accordance with the 1862 law, to use their vote and increase the participation of women voters in the elections, but there was yet no public demand to women suffrage among women. In 1888, the temperance activist Emilie Rathou became the first woman in Sweden to demand the right for women suffrage in a public speech. In 1899, a delegation from the Fredrika-Bremer-Förbundet presented a suggestion of woman suffrage to prime minister Erik Gustaf Boström. The delegation was headed by Agda Montelius, accompanied by Gertrud Adelborg, who had written the demand. This was the first time the Swedish women's movement themselves had officially presented a demand for suffrage.\n\nIn 1902 the National Association for Women's Suffrage was founded. In 1906 the suggestion of women's suffrage was voted down in parliament again. In 1909, the right to vote in municipal elections were extended to include also married women. The same year, women were granted eligibility to municipal councils, and in the following 1910–11 municipal elections, forty women were elected to different municipal councils, Gertrud Månsson being the first. In 1914 Emilia Broomé became the first woman in the legislative assembly.\n\nThe right to vote in national elections was not returned to women until 1919, and was practised again in the election of 1921, for the first time in 150 years.\n\nAfter the 1921 election, the first women were elected to Swedish Parliament after the suffrage: Kerstin Hesselgren in the Upper chamber and Nelly Thüring (Social Democrat), Agda Östlund (Social Democrat) Elisabeth Tamm (liberal) and Bertha Wellin (Conservative) in the Lower chamber. Karin Kock-Lindberg became the first female government minister, and in 1958, Ulla Lindström became the first acting Prime Minister.\n\nAfter the 1921 election, the first women were elected to Swedish Parliament after the suffrage: Kerstin Hesselgren in the Upper chamber and Nelly Thüring (Social Democrat), Agda Östlund (Social Democrat) Elisabeth Tamm (liberal) and Bertha Wellin (Conservative) in the Lower chamber. It was not be until 1961, however, that women held more than 10% seats in parliament.\n\nIn 1947, Karin Kock-Lindberg became the first female government minister, and in 1958, Ulla Lindström became the first acting Prime Minister. It was not be until 1966, however, that there were more than one woman in the cabinet in the same time.\n\nThe election of 1994 signified a breakthrough in this aspect: for the first time on history, women had more than 40% of the seats of parliament, and half of the cabinet positions in government. This made Sweden unique in the world at the time.\n\nAs in many other Western countries, the connection between fertility and marriage has been significantly weakened in the past decades. Sweden was one of the first European countries to change its social norms towards unmarried cohabitation and childbearing, at a time where this was still seen as unacceptable in many other parts of the continent.\n\nSweden provides for sex education in schools. The age of consent in Sweden is 15. Contraception was legalized in 1938. Abortion was allowed on certain conditions by the Abortion Act of 1938. Free abortion was permitted through the Abortion Act of 1974.\n\nIn 2018, Sweden passed a law defining sex without consent in clear body language or words as rape, even if no force or threats are used; previously a rape conviction had required proof that the offender used force or that the victim was in a vulnerable state.\n\nThe names are placed in chronological order: \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
