{"id": "40763167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40763167", "title": "2013 New York divorce torture plot", "text": "2013 New York divorce torture plot\n\nThe 2013 New York divorce torture plot was a sting operation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation against a gang that had been kidnapping Jewish men and torturing them into granting their wives gets (religious divorces). It began with the apprehension of Rabbi David Wax, and culminated in the arrest of a group of rabbis from New York under the direction of Mendel Epstein, including Jay Goldstein, Binyamin Stimler, and Martin Wolmark, who were involved in the planned kidnapping and torture of a fictitious Jewish husband in Middlesex County, New Jersey, with the purpose of obtaining from him a \"get\". Epstein and his men were found guilty of attempted kidnapping in 2015, and were sentenced to prison, while Epstein's son, David Epstein, was acquitted.\n\nA Jewish man is allowed to divorce his wife for virtually any reason by first receiving her permission, and then giving her a get. If she is unwilling, and his complaint against her is substantial, he can pursue a heter meah rabbanim and remarry, although one is rarely awarded.\nA Jewish woman seeking a divorce from her husband must present her complaint to a beth din with the implication of a serious physical blemish or character defect. The husband must be willing to divorce his wife, for if he gives the get unwillingly, the divorce is invalid, and any future offspring of the wife would be considered mamzers. If the circumstances truly warrant a divorce and the husband is unwilling, the dayan has the prerogative of instituting community shunning measures to \"coerce him until he agrees,\" with physical force being reserved only for the rarest of cases.\n\nIt was in this grey area of halakha that in the mid-1980s a rabbi from Brooklyn, New York, Mendel Epstein, began to advocate for women seeking religious divorces from their husbands. Dubbed The Prodfather by the press due to his boast of using a cattle prod against his victims, Epstein started a divorce-gang which coerced these men to give the \"get\"s through the use of violence. Although U.S. laws prohibit kidnapping, assault, and torture, some rabbis have gone on record anonymously to sanction these otherwise \"inhumane\" acts against \"angry husbands.\" If a man got so scared from this treatment as to suffer a heart attack, Epstein would instruct his gang to \"Take a right turn and let him die.\"\n\nIn 1991, Father's Rights activist Monty Weinstein staged a protest with twenty-five people outside Epstein's home, with some carrying signs that read \"Stop Mendel Epstein!\"\n\n\n\nIn October 2010, David Wax and his wife Judy were arrested for their part in the Bryskman kidnapping, and Wax subsequently agreed to testify as a government witness, claiming Epstein was the head of the operation and that his son David was present in the bedroom during the Bryskman beating. Their relationship dated back to the 1980s, when Epstein had forced a divorce for Wax's sister. The Bryskman case was what led federal authorities in New Jersey to begin their investigation of Mendel Epstein for his role in the crime.\n\nIn the summer of 2013, a woman dialed Martin Wolmark, an accomplice of Epstein, and told him a story about a husband who refused to give her a get. Wolmark said:\n\nOn August 14, 2013, she visited Epstein in Lakewood with another man she said was her brother. Epstein said to the two visitors:\n\nThe man then asked about Epstein's effectiveness, to which he replied:\n\nEpstein explained he would need $10,000 to approve the coercion at the beth din, and $60,000 for the \"tough guys\", who would use karate, rope, a screwdriver, and plastic bags over the men's heads to get them to cooperate. And if all else fails, then:\n\nEpstein also told the woman that he would not be present at the attack, planning instead to be out and about, and suggested that she do the same, explaining that being seen in public would provide them with an alibi.\n\nThe man and woman turned out to be undercover FBI agents.\n\nOn October 9, 2013, 8 men wearing Halloween masks, ski masks, and bandanas – one wore a Metallica T-shirt on top of his clothes – came to a warehouse in Middlesex County, New Jersey, where they flexed and shadow-boxed as they waited for their prey, the 'recalcitrant husband' who did not exist. Suddenly, federal agents burst in and arrested the would-be kidnappers. Epstein was arrested separately in Brooklyn.\n\nDuring a federal court hearing the following day in Trenton, New Jersey, Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph Gribko told a judge, \"They didn't do it out of religious conviction. They did it for money.\"\n\nOn May 6, 2014, Wax pleaded guilty in federal court in New Jersey to conspiracy to commit kidnapping. He named the men arrested the previous October as his accomplices.\n\nThe trial of the main defendants commenced on February 18, 2015 at the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in Trenton. On April 21, they appeared before District Judge Freda L. Wolfson, whereupon Mendel Epstein was convicted of conspiracy to commit kidnapping, while accomplices Jay Goldstein and Binyamin Stimler were additionally convicted of attempted kidnapping. David Epstein was acquitted, in part by defence attorney Henry Mazurek's contention that David was in a business meeting in Cincinnati during Usher Chaimowitz's beating.\n\nOn December 14, Martin Wolmark, who had pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit extortion, was sentenced to more than 3 years in prison. The next day, at his own sentencing, Mendel Epstein told the judge: \n\nEpstein and Stimler were sentenced to 10 years and 3 years respectively. Wolfson said during the proceeding that \"No one is permitted to commit acts of violence against another,\" and that the sentence was necessary in order to deter others in the Orthodox Jewish community from engaging in similar paid vigilantism.\n\nOne day later, Goldstein was sentenced to 8 years imprisonment. Six other co-defendants also pleaded guilty before trial, and were sentenced to up to 4 years.\n\nOn January 12, 2016, David Wax was sentenced by Wolfson to 7 years imprisonment.\n\nRabbinical judge David Eidensohn of Monsey, New York said, \"I'm shocked that people who call themselves rabbis would get involved in coercion.\" According to Eidensohn, if a woman obtains a get in such a manner and remarries, \"her marriage is not legal and she would be considered living in sin. If she has children, the children are considered born out of wedlock, and that's considered a disgrace in the community.\"\n\nSamuel Heilman, professor of sociology and Jewish studies at Queens College said, \"Using force, that's the way it used to be done centuries ago. Most Jews don't operate like that anymore, but in this community... it's a sort of fundamentalist view.\"\n\nMoshe David Tendler, rabbi and professor of medical ethics at Yeshiva University said, \"The idea that a beth din can issue an order for coercion is baloney, a hoax.\" While conceding that he had \"been with [Epstein] on matters,\" Tendler nevertheless considered him \"unreliable.\"\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3556067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3556067", "title": "Air rights", "text": "Air rights\n\nAir rights are the property interest in the \"space\" above the earth's surface. Generally speaking, owning, or renting, land or a building includes the right to use and develop the space above the land without interference by others.\n\nThis legal concept is encoded in the Latin phrase \"Cuius est solum, eius est usque ad coelum et ad inferos\" (\"\"Whoever owns the soil, it is theirs up to Heaven and down to Hell\".\"), which appears in medieval Roman law and is credited to 13th-century glossator Accursius; it was notably popularized in common law in \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\" (1766) by William Blackstone; see origins of phrase for details.\n\nProperty rights defined by points on the ground were once believed to extend indefinitely upward. This notion remained unchallenged before air travel became popular in the early 20th century. To promote air transport, legislators established a legal right for the public to transit at high altitudes, regardless of real estate ownership. Both the public easement in the space at these higher altitudes and landowner rights to the exclusive use of the airspace at lower altitudes have been well documented by the U.S. judiciary.\n\nNew technologies have again raised questions about ownership of \"space\" and the upward bounds of national sovereignty. With the advent of space travel above earth's atmosphere, the height at which national sovereignty extends and therefore nations can regulate transit is often debated.\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has the sole authority to control all \"publicly owned\" airspace, exclusively determining the rules and requirements for its use. Specifically, the Federal Aviation Act provides that: \"The United States Government has exclusive sovereignty of airspace of the United States\", but not all the airspace is \"possessed\" by the United States. For non-public airspace, Congress has provided authority for the FAA to purchase this non-public airspace near airports to accommodate planes taking off and landing. The \"navigable airspace\" in which the public has a right of transit without affecting a landowner's property rights has been set at the height of 500 ft in urban or suburban areas, and 360 feet above the surface or tallest structure in rural areas. The exact altitude(s) at which the airspace over private land becomes \"public\" airspace, or where the upward bounds of national sovereignty extends is often debated, but the Supreme Court rulings and space treaties are clear. A landowner's domain extends up to at least 365 feet above the ground. see Causby v US (1946), and no nation can prevent orbits above the Earth's atmosphere.\n\nThe FAA is required to pay financial compensation to property owners when their property interests are taken for overflights. Compensated landowners may then be required to waive any putative damages for interference with \"air rights\" in order to avoid lawsuits from future owners' nuisance claims against low flying aircraft. This is called a navigation or navigational easement.\n\nThe low cost of unmanned aerial vehicles (also called drones) in the 2000s re-raised legal questions regarding whose permission is required to fly at low altitudes; the landowner, the FAA or both. Although the FAA reestablished that navigable airspace is the space above 500 feet, the FAA also set regulations which allow drones to fly below 400 feet in order to prevent interference with planes above that height. The FAA's actions are expected to see challenges in the judiciary.\n\nRailroads were the first companies to realize the potential of making money from their air rights. A good example of this is Grand Central Terminal in New York City, where William J. Wilgus, chief engineer of the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad, devised a plan to earn profit from air rights. At first, the railroad simply constructed a platform above the rail yards to allow for the development of buildings overhead. By 1954, the railroad began to realize it could sell more air rights and Grand Central Terminal was proposed to be replaced by a 50-story tower. This is how the Pan Am Building came to be built next to the station, after public protest regarding the demolition of Grand Central Terminal. This approach has been used in Chicago since the construction of the Prudential Building in 1955 above active railroad tracks of the Illinois Central Railroad. In 2017, to the west of the Chicago River, River Point and 150 North Riverside were built above tracks leading to the Amtrak station.\n\nBuilding on platforms over railroad tracks is still potentially very profitable. In the mid-2000s, New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) attempted to sell air rights to the New York Jets so that they could build the West Side Stadium over Manhattan's West Side Yard, near Penn Station, as part of the Hudson Yards Redevelopment. The Hudson Yards mega-development was eventually built over the rail yard. In Brooklyn, the Barclays Center and Pacific Park have been constructed over Atlantic Yards.\n\nSimilar to railroads, builders of highways have proposed selling their air rights; Boston did this in connection with the Big Dig.\n\nThe city of Los Angeles funded a $100,000 feasibility study RFP in January 2007 to explore building a freeway cap park in Hollywood. The park would be built above US highway 101 and contain of new parkland.\n\nThe owner of the land has the exclusive development rights in the 'space' above his lands. Under common law, building a 'hangover' that breaks the vertical plane of a neighbor's property is a trespass and the property owner has the right to remove the offending structure. The airspace is property and retains developmental rights which can be sold or transferred. Thus in a dense downtown area, each building in the area may have the right to thirty-five stories of airspace above his own property. The owners of an older building of only three stories high could make a great deal of money by selling their building and allowing a thirty-five-story skyscraper to be built in its place. For example, a skyscraper developer may purchase the unused airspace from an adjacent landowner in order to develop a broader building. In November 2005, Christ Church in New York sold its vertical development rights for a record $430 per square foot, making more than $30 million on the sale.\n\n\nNotes\n\nTransferable Development Rights (TDR)\n"}
{"id": "52872292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52872292", "title": "Allofeeding", "text": "Allofeeding\n\nAllofeeding is a type of food sharing behaviour observed in cooperatively breeding species of birds. Allofeeding refers to a parent, sibling or unrelated adult bird feeding altricial hatchlings, which are dependent on parental care for their survival. Allofeeding also refers to food sharing between adults of the same species. Allofeeding can occur between mates during mating rituals, courtship, egg laying or incubation, between peers of the same species, or as a form of parental care.\n\nAllofeeding evolved for different reasons in different species of birds. While Sagebrush Brewer’s Sparrows allofeed to reduce predation during incubation, Sichuan Jays allofeed to increase a female’s nutritional level prior to egg laying, and Chinstrap Penguins allofeed to strengthen the bond between the pair during chick guarding. \n\nWhile parental allofeeding is a common form of parental care among many species of birds, the practice is not inherently restricted to biological parents and their young, and is often done for reasons unrelated to the well-being of the chicks. Arabian Bablers, for instance, peer allofeed in an attempt at increasing their social rank, whereas the King Penguin considers those 'non-breeders' who allofeed chicks to be altruistic and highly revered. And the far more practical Barn Owl, of course, peer allofeeds merely to reduce sibling rivalry/competition during meal times. \n\nAlthough many species of birds exhibit allofeeding, there are some species that do not perform allofeeding, such as Siberian Jays.\n\nMany species of migratory songbirds display allofeeding during the incubation period. During the incubation period, a male songbird will feed its mate, while she sits on the eggs through beak-to-beak interaction. This allofeeding behaviour is suggested to be adaptive because the male is indirectly investing in its offspring. The male uses its energy to forage and retrieve food, and to feed the female. This behaviour of the male reduces nutritional stress of the female because it reduces the amount of time the female spends foraging. In addition, the allofeeding behaviour decreases the number of times a female has to leave the nest, which in turn extends the incubation period and reduces the risk of nest being detected by a predator. Overall, allofeeding behaviour contributes to increased fitness and is therefore considered advantageous. However, Nolan (1958) theorizes that allofeeding is a non-adaptive and is derived from anticipatory parental care.\n\nAllofeeding during the incubation period can also transpire through both the male and the female interchangeably feeding each other via beak-to-beak interactions, while a mate receiving the food incubates the eggs. Once feeding is completed, the recipient now becomes the feeder and the mate that was just foraging incubates the eggs. For example, Sagebrush Brewer’s Sparrows (\"Spizella breweri breweri\") allofeed in this manner. A recent study by Halley et al., 2015, examined allofeeding in twenty-four nests of Sagebrush Brewer’s Sparrows. This study revealed that allofeeding occurred at low frequencies (55%) in nests with biparental incubation and no allofeeding occurred in uniparental nests. This study suggests that allofeeding is an intraspecific signal required to maintain social bonds between mates, in addition to increasing the nutrition levels of females and concealment of the nest. Furthermore, the study found that incubation sessions per hour were higher in biparental nests with allofeeding than in biparental nests without allofeeding. These findings indicate that allofeeding is beneficial because it reduces the risk of predation from visually oriented predators through increased nest concealment, which can maximize the fitness of males while increasing the fitness of females.\n\nThere have been many documented observations of allofeeding between mates (mate allofeeding). However, in penguins allofeeding between mates is rare. In 2010, Chinstrap Penguins (\"P. antarctica\") allofeeding was reported during the period of chick guarding. The researchers witnessed a male feeding a female, which had a large chick in its nest. The behaviour was engaged by the female frequently pecking the side of the male’s bill to stimulate the male to regurgitate its food. This resulted in the male regurgitating its food into the female’s open mouth. This allofeeding behaviour was identical to the manner in which a chick begs its parent for food. Notably, during this behaviour the female kept the attention of male when the chick tried to gain the male’s attention. It is proposed that mate allofeeding in Chinstrap Penguins was performed to strengthen the bond between the pair.\n\nAllofeeding between mates can also occur during courtship. Courtship allofeeding occurs in half of bird subfamilies and mainly appears in monogamous bird species. Courtship allofeeding is hypothesized to strengthen the bond between pairs or increase a female’s nutritional level before laying eggs. For example, in the Sichuan Jay (\"P. internigrans\"), females are fed by only one male during courtship. It is suggested that allofeeding the female during courtship, increases a female’s nutritional level before egg laying. This behaviour was also recorded in the Grey Jays (\"P. canadensis\"). Other species of birds display allofeeding during courtship. Additionally, courtship allofeeding in some birds species is hypothesized to strengthen the bond between pairs.\n\nA parent feeding a non-biological chick via bill-to-bill interactions is a form of allofeeding. Parental allofeeding occurs in all altricial species of birds to ensure proper growth, development, and to prevent starvation of their offspring. This form of allofeeding has been shown to be a form of parental care in some species, such as in King Penguins (\"A. patagonicus\"). King Penguins are pelagic seabirds. King Penguin chicks form dense groups called crèches during winter for social thermoregulation when food availability is low. The formation of crèches results from the parents interchangeably leaving starving chicks to gather food from the sea. A study by Lecomte et al., 2015 examined the allofeeding behaviour in King Penguins, in which they marked the white underbellies of 74 non-breeding adults and 103 breeding pairs with a unique dark colouring called dye-mark code of Nyanzol-D. Lecomte et al. (2015) found 22% of the marked adults feed 65% of the chicks in crèches, revealing that allofeeding behaviour was most common during the breeding season. Lecomte et al. (2015) also identified that most of the 22% of adult King Penguins demonstrating allofeeding behaviour were unable to successfully breed along with few breeders performing the behaviour. The allofeeding behaviour resulted in more feedings for chicks, which is consistent with study by Pierre et al. (1994) that showed that allofeeding in penguins increases the chick growth rate from 35g/day to 190g/day. From these results, Lecomte et al., (2015) concluded that allofeeding increased the survival rate of chicks in crèches. The results imply that parental allofeeding in King Penguins is an altruistic behaviour, where allofeeding benefits the young at a cost to the non-biological parent. Notably, no direct benefits to the non-biological parents have been described. The cost of allofeeding non-biological chicks resulted in no detrimental effects to the fitness of the alloparent, because the cost of allofeeding is low (several grams) when compared to the nutritional costs of an adult king penguin, which is several kilograms. However, it is suggested that allofeeding many chicks may cost each chick lost meals that can cause negative effects on the fitness of allofed chicks. In addition, allofeeding decreases when non-biological parents had offspring.\n\nThe Chinstrap Penguin (\"P. antarctica\") is another species of penguin that displays allofeeding. Allofeeding in the Chinstrap Penguin has been observed between the female and its offspring. Similar to mate allofeeding in this species, the offspring of a female will peck the side of the female’s bill to signal the female to regurgitate its food into the chick's open mouth.\n\nIn Sichuan Jays (\"P. Internigrans\"), females are not the only sex that participates in the allofeeding of their offspring. During their first week of life, the chicks are only fed by the male. The male forages and stores food in a pouch within its throat. At the nest, the male regurgitates the semi-digested food from its pouch into the mouths of its chicks. After the first week, the male continues to feed the chicks while the female begins feeding the chicks. The female uses the same method as the male.\n\nThere have been many reported cases of allofeeding between siblings in several species of birds. For example, the Arabian Babblers (\"T. sqamiceps\") are a territorial, desert inhibiting species of bird that participate in cooperative breeding. In this species, non-breeders show numerous types of cooperative behaviour, including allofeeding. Adult and immature Babblers, as well as previous and newly fledged Babblers, will frequently engage in allofeeding behaviour.\n\nCarlisle et al. (1986) revealed that Arabian Babblers participate in peer allofeeding in order to increase social rank, which increases fitness. This allofeeding behaviour is supported by the Zahavi's hypothesis. An individual (a dominate Babbler) can increase in social rank by allofed a subordinate Babbler. On the contrary, an individual (a subordinate Babbler) can decrease in social rank when they are allofed by a dominate Babbler. Subordinate Babblers have been observed refusing to be allofeed by dominate Babbler. The refusal resulted in the dominate Babbler becoming aggressive with the subordinate - hitting or chasing the subordinate. Dominate Babblers also showed the same aggressive behaviours when a subordinate tried to allofeed it.\n\nAnother species that exhibits peer allofeeding is the Barn Owl (\"T. alba\"). Barn Owl nest siblings establish a hierarchy for the sharing of food resources via vocal negotiations. It is suggested that Barn Owl nest siblings show peer allofeeding to reduce sibling competition in the food sharing hierarchy. Peer allofeeding observed in 60 nestling pairs revealed that the behaviour occurs by a donor sibling placing the food item on the ground in front of the receiver sibling, which transfers the food item to its bill using its talons. Alternatively, the donor sibling uses its bill to place the food item in the bill of the receiver sibling. As well, peer allofeeding behaviour in Barn Owl siblings is proposed to increase the inclusive fitness of the peer performing the allofeeding.\n\nIntraspecific allofeeding in Sichuan Jays (\"P. internigrans\") is performed during the nestling and fledging period by non-breeders. One to three non-breeders support a nesting breeding pair by feeding the chicks, regurgitating the food from their throat pouches. In 2009, Jing et al. determined that two non-breeders contributed to 44% of feedings in the nest of two Sichuan Jays. Jing et al. (2009) suggest that allofeeding behaviour contributes to increased nest survival.\n\nIn Sichuan Jays, allofeeding is hypothesized to be evolutionary selected. In this species, two to three non-breeders will allofeed the young of a breeding pair. The large body mass (21% heavier than Siberian Jays) of the Sichuan Jays, and the presence of more than one non-breeder, allows one non-breeder to ward off a predator while another non-breeder protects the young from additional predators. Both the large body mass of the non-breeders and the presence of multiple non-breeders reduces the risk of injury or death when predators are encountered. This reveals that the benefits of allofeeding the young outweighs the cost of injury or death of the non-breeder and/or chick when more than one non-breeder is present. Peer allofeeding has also been observed in the Gray Jay (\"P. canadensis\"). In the Gray Jay, non-breeders allofeed the young after fledging.\n\nNot all species of jays allofeed their young, such as the Siberian Jay (\"P. infaustus\"). In the Siberian Jays, non-breeders do not allofeed the chicks of a breeding pair. It is predicted that Siberian Jays do not display allofeeding because the cost of predation is too high. Siberian Jays are continuously threatened by a more dangerous predators, the Eurasian Sparrowhawk and Northern Goshawk, then Gray Jays, which are threatened by Eurasian red squirrel. One non-breeder per breeding pair and the small size (21% less body mass than the Sichuan Jays) of the Siberian Jays, in combination with continuous risk of predation, reveals that the non-breeding Siberian Jays are unable to confront predators and protect the nest simultaneously. This indicates that the cost of allofeeding the young is more costly to the non-breeder when one non-breeder is present because an encounter with a predator increases the risk of injury and death of both the young and the non-breeder. This reveals that the benefit of allofeeding the young does not exceed the cost of injury or death of non-breeder and/or young. This is consistent with the predator-avoidance hypothesis, suggesting that the cost of allofeeding in the Siberian Jays prevents allofeeding from being evolutionary selected.\n\n"}
{"id": "4545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4545", "title": "BDSM", "text": "BDSM\n\nBDSM is a variety of often erotic practices or roleplaying involving bondage, discipline, dominance and submission, sadomasochism, and other related interpersonal dynamics. Given the wide range of practices, some of which may be engaged in by people who do not consider themselves as practicing BDSM, inclusion in the BDSM community or subculture is usually dependent upon self-identification and shared experience.\nThe term \"BDSM\" is first recorded in a Usenet posting from 1991, and is interpreted as a combination of the abbreviations B/D (Bondage and Discipline), D/s (Dominance and submission), and S/M (Sadism and Masochism). BDSM is now used as a catch-all phrase covering a wide range of activities, forms of interpersonal relationships, and distinct subcultures. BDSM communities generally welcome anyone with a non-normative streak who identifies with the community; this may include cross-dressers, body modification enthusiasts, animal roleplayers, rubber fetishists, and others.\n\nActivities and relationships within a BDSM context are often characterized by the participants taking on complementary, but unequal roles; thus, the idea of informed consent of both the partners is essential. The terms \"submissive\" and \"dominant\" are often used to distinguish these roles: the dominant partner (\"dom\") takes psychological control over the submissive (\"sub\"). The terms \"top\" and \"bottom\" are also used: the top is the instigator of an action while the bottom is the receiver of the action. The two sets of terms are subtly different: for example, someone may choose to act as bottom to another person, for example, by being whipped, purely recreationally, without any implication of being psychologically dominated by them, or a submissive may be ordered to massage their dominant partner. Despite the bottom performing the action and the top receiving they have not necessarily switched roles.\n\nThe abbreviations \"sub\" and \"dom\" are frequently used instead of \"submissive\" and \"dominant\". Sometimes the female-specific terms \"mistress\", \"domme\" or \"dominatrix\" are used to describe a dominant woman, instead of the gender-neutral term \"dom\". Individuals who can change between top/dominant and bottom/submissive roles—whether from relationship to relationship or within a given relationship—are known as \"switches\". The precise definition of roles and self-identification is a common subject of debate within the community.\n\n\"BDSM\" is an umbrella term for certain kinds of erotic behavior between consenting adults. There are distinct subcultures under this umbrella term. Terminology for roles varies widely among the subcultures. \"Top\" and \"dominant\" are widely used for those partner(s) in the relationship or activity who are, respectively, the physically active or controlling participants. \"Bottom\" and \"submissive\" are widely used for those partner(s) in the relationship or activity who are, respectively, the physically receptive or controlled participants. The interaction between tops and bottoms—where physical or mental control of the bottom is surrendered to the top—is sometimes known as \"power exchange\", whether in the context of an encounter or a relationship.\n\nBDSM actions can often take place during a specific period of time agreed to by both parties, referred to as \"play\", a \"scene\", or a \"session\". Participants usually derive pleasure from this, even though many of the practices—such as inflicting pain or humiliation or being restrained — would be unpleasant under other circumstances. Explicit sexual activity, such as sexual penetration, may occur within a session, but is not essential. Such explicit sexual interaction is, for legal reasons, seen only rarely in public play spaces, and it is sometimes specifically banned by the rules of a party or playspace. Whether it is a public \"playspace\"—ranging from a party at an established community dungeon to a hosted play \"zone\" at a nightclub or social event—the parameters of allowance can vary. Some have a policy of panties/nipple sticker for women (underwear for men) and some allow full nudity with explicit sexual interaction allowed.\nThe fundamental principles for the exercise of BDSM require that it should be performed with the informed consent of all involved parties. Since the 1980s, many practitioners and organizations have adopted the motto (originally from the statement of purpose of GMSMA—a gay SM activist organization) \"safe, sane and consensual\", commonly abbreviated as \"SSC\", which means that everything is based on safe activities, that all participants be of sufficiently sound/sane mind to consent, and that all participants do consent. It is mutual consent that makes a clear legal and ethical distinction between BDSM and such crimes as sexual assault or domestic violence.\n\nSome BDSM practitioners prefer a code of behavior that differs from \"SSC\" and is described as \"risk-aware consensual kink\" (RACK), indicating a preference for a style in which the \"individual\" responsibility of the involved parties is emphasized more strongly, with each participant being responsible for his or her own well-being. Advocates of RACK argue that SSC can hamper discussion of risk because no activity is truly \"safe\", and that discussion of even low-risk possibilities is necessary for truly informed consent. They further argue that setting a discrete line between \"safe\" and \"not-safe\" activities ideologically denies consenting adults the right to evaluate risks vs rewards for themselves; that some adults will be drawn to certain activities regardless of the risk; and that BDSM play—particularly higher-risk play or edgeplay—should be treated with the same regard as extreme sports, with both respect and the demand that practitioners educate themselves and practice the higher-risk activities to decrease risk. RACK may be seen as focusing primarily upon awareness and informed consent, rather than accepted safe practices. Consent is the most important criterion here. The consent and compliance for a sadomasochistic situation can be granted only by people who can judge the potential results. For their consent, they must have relevant information (extent to which the scene will go, potential risks, if a safeword will be used, what that is, and so on) at hand and the necessary mental capacity to judge. The resulting consent and understanding is occasionally summarized in a written \"contract\", which is an agreement of what can and cannot take place.\n\nIn general, BDSM play is usually structured such that it is possible for the consenting partner to withdraw his or her consent at any point during a scene; for example, by using a safeword that was agreed on in advance. Use of the agreed safeword (or occasionally a \"safe symbol\" such as dropping a ball or ringing a bell, especially when speech is restricted) is seen by some as an explicit withdrawal of consent. Failure to honor a safeword is considered serious misconduct and could even change the sexual consent situation into a crime, depending on the relevant law, since the bottom or top has explicitly revoked his or her consent to any actions that follow the use of the safeword (see Legal status). For other scenes, particularly in established relationships, a safeword may be agreed to signify a warning (\"this is getting too intense\") rather than explicit withdrawal of consent; and a few choose not to use a safeword at all.\n\nThe initialism \"BDSM\" includes these psychological and physiological facets:\n\nThis model for differentiating among these aspects of BDSM is increasingly used in literature today. Nevertheless, it is only an attempt at phenomenological differentiation. Individual tastes and preferences in the area of human sexuality may overlap among these areas, which are discussed separately here.\n\nBondage and discipline are two aspects of BDSM that do not seem to relate to each other because of the type of activities involved, but they have conceptual similarities, and that is why they appear jointly. Contrary to the other two types, B&D does not define the tops and bottoms itself, and is used to describe the general activities with either partner being the receiver and the giver.\n\nThe term \"bondage\" describes the practice of physical restraint. Bondage is usually, but not always, a sexual practice. While bondage is a very popular variation within the larger field of BDSM, it is nevertheless sometimes differentiated from the rest of this field. A 2015 study of over 1,000 Canadians showed that about half of all men held fantasies of bondage, and almost half of all women did as well. Strictly speaking, bondage means binding the partner by tying their appendages together; for example, by the use of handcuffs or ropes, or by lashing their arms to an object. Bondage can also be achieved by spreading the appendages and fastening them with chains or ropes to a St. Andrew's cross or spreader bars.\n\nThe term \"discipline\" describes psychological restraining, with the use of rules and punishment to control overt behavior. Punishment can be pain caused physically (such as caning), humiliation caused psychologically (such as a public flagellation) or loss of freedom caused physically (for example, chaining the submissive partner to the foot of a bed). Another aspect is the structured training of the bottom.\n\n\"Dominance and submission\" (also known as D&s, Ds or D/s) is a set of behaviors, customs and rituals relating to the giving and accepting of control of one individual over another in an erotic or lifestyle context. It explores the more mental aspect of BDSM. This is also the case in many relationships not considering themselves as sadomasochistic; it is considered to be a part of BDSM if it is practiced purposefully. The range of its individual characteristics is thereby wide.\nOften, \"contracts\" are set out in writing to record the formal consent of the parties to the power exchange, stating their common vision of the relationship dynamic. The purpose of this kind of agreement is primarily to encourage discussion and negotiation in advance, and then to document that understanding for the benefit of all parties. Such documents have not been recognized as being legally binding, nor are they intended to be. These agreements are binding in the sense that the parties have the expectation that the negotiated rules will be followed. Often other friends and community members may witness the signing of such a document in a ceremony, and so parties violating their agreement can result in loss of face, respect or status with their friends in the community.\n\nIn general, as compared to conventional relationships, BDSM participants go to great lengths to negotiate the important aspects of their relationships in advance, and to take great care in learning about and following safe practices.\n\nIn D/S, the dominant is the top and the submissive is the bottom. In S/M, the sadist is usually the top and the masochist the bottom, but these roles are frequently more complicated or jumbled (as in the case of being dominant, masochists who may arrange for their submissive to carry out S/M activities on them). As in B/D, the declaration of the top/bottom may be required, though sadomasochists may also play without any power exchange at all, with both partners equally in control of the play.\n\nThe term \"sadomasochism\" is derived from the words \"sadism\" and \"masochism\". These terms differ somewhat from the same terms used in psychology, since those require that the sadism or masochism cause significant distress or involve non-consenting partners. \"Sadomasochism\" refers to the aspects of BDSM surrounding the exchange of physical or emotional pain. Sadism describes sexual pleasure derived by inflicting pain, degradation, humiliation on another person or causing another person to suffer. On the other hand, the masochist enjoys being hurt, humiliated, or suffering within the consensual scenario. Sadomasochistic scenes sometimes reach a level that appear more extreme or cruel than other forms of BDSM—for example, when a masochist is brought to tears or is severely bruised—and is occasionally unwelcome at BDSM events or parties. Sadomasochism does not imply enjoyment through causing or receiving pain in other situations (for example, accidental injury, medical procedures).\nThe terms \"sadism\" and \"masochism\" are derived from the names of the Marquis de Sade and Leopold von Sacher-Masoch, based on the content of the authors' works. Although the names of de Sade and Sacher-Masoch are attached to the terms sadism and masochism respectively, the scenes described in de Sade's works do not meet modern BDSM standards of informed consent. BDSM is solely based on consensual activities, and based on its system and laws. The concepts presented by de Sade are not in accordance with the BDSM culture, even though they are sadistic in nature. In 1843 the Ruthenian physician Heinrich Kaan published \"Psychopathia sexualis\" (\"Psychopathy of Sex\"), a writing in which he converts the sin conceptions of Christianity into medical diagnoses. With his work the originally theological terms \"perversion\", \"aberration\" and \"deviation\" became part of the scientific terminology for the first time. The German psychiatrist Richard von Krafft Ebing introduced the terms \"sadism\" and \"masochism\" to the medical community in his work \"Neue Forschungen auf dem Gebiet der Psychopathia sexualis\" (\"New research in the area of Psychopathy of Sex\") in 1890.\n\nIn 1905, Sigmund Freud described \"sadism\" and \"masochism\" in his \"Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality\" as diseases developing from an incorrect development of the child psyche and laid the groundwork for the scientific perspective on the subject in the following decades. This led to the first time use of the compound term \"sado-masochism\" (German \"sado-masochismus\") by the Viennese psychoanalytic Isidor Isaak Sadger in their work, \"Über den sado-masochistischen Komplex\" (\"Regarding the sadomasochistic complex\") in 1913.\n\nIn the later 20th century, BDSM activists have protested against these conceptual models, as they were derived from the philosophies of two singular historical figures. Both Freud and Krafft-Ebing were psychiatrists; their observations on sadism and masochism were dependent on psychiatric patients, and their models were built on the assumption of psychopathology. BDSM activists argue that it is illogical to attribute human behavioural phenomena as complex as sadism and masochism to the 'inventions' of two historic individuals. Advocates of BDSM have sought to distinguish themselves from widely held notions of antiquated psychiatric theory by the adoption of the initialized term, \"BDSM\" as a distinction from the now common usage of those psychological terms, abbreviated as \"S&M\".\n\nOn a physical level, BDSM is commonly misconceived to be \"all about pain\". Most often, though, BDSM practitioners are primarily concerned with power, humiliation, and pleasure. Of the three categories of BDSM, only sadomasochism specifically requires pain, but this is typically a means to an end, as a vehicle for feelings of humiliation, dominance, etc. The aspects of D/S and B/D may not include physical suffering at all, but include the sensations experienced by different emotions of the mind.\n\nDominance & submission of power is an entirely different experience, and is not always psychologically associated with physical pain. Many BDSM activities might not involve any kind of pain or humiliation, but just the exchange of power and control. During the activities, the practitioners may feel endorphins comparable to the so-called \"runner's high\" or to the afterglow of orgasm. The corresponding trance-like mental state is also known as \"subspace\" for the submissive, or \"topspace\" for the dominant. Some use the term \"body stress\" to describe this physiological sensation. This experience of algolagnia is important, but is not the only motivation for many BDSM practitioners. The philosopher Edmund Burke defines this sensation of pleasure derived from pain by the word \"sublime\". Research has shown that couples engaging in consensual BDSM tend to show hormonal changes that indicate decreases in stress and increases in emotional bonding.\n\nThere is a wide array of BDSM practitioners who take part in sessions for which they do not receive any personal gratification. They enter such situations solely with the intention to allow their partners to fulfill their own needs or fetishes. Professional dominants do this in exchange of money for the session activities, but non-professionals do it for the sake of their partners.\n\nIn some BDSM sessions, the top exposes the bottom to a wide range of sensual experiences, for example: pinching, biting, scratching with fingernails, erotic spanking or the use of objects such as crops, whips, liquid wax, ice cubes, Wartenberg wheels, and erotic electrostimulation devices. Fixation by handcuffs, ropes or chains may be used as well. The repertoire of possible \"toys\" is limited only by the imagination of both partners. To some extent, everyday items like clothes-pins, wooden spoons or plastic wrap are used as pervertables. It is commonly considered that a pleasurable BDSM experience during a session is very strongly dependent upon the top's competence and experience and the bottom's physical and mental state at the time of the session. Trust and sexual arousal help the partners enter a shared mindset.\n\nSome types of BDSM play include, but are not limited to:\n\nAside from the general advice related to safe sex, BDSM sessions often require a wider array of safety precautions than vanilla sex (sexual behaviour without BDSM elements). In theory, to ensure consent related to BDSM activity, pre-play negotiations are commonplace, especially among partners who do not know each other very well. In practice, pick-up scenes at clubs or parties may sometimes be low in negotiation (much as pick-up sex from singles bars may not involve much negotiation or disclosure). These negotiations concern the interests and fantasies of each partner and establish a framework of both acceptable and unacceptable activities. This kind of discussion is a typical \"unique selling proposition\" of BDSM sessions and quite commonplace. Additionally, safewords are often arranged to provide for an immediate stop of any activity if any participant should so desire.\n\nSafewords are words or phrases that are called out when things are either not going as planned or have crossed a threshold one cannot handle. They are something both parties can remember and recognize and are, by definition, not words commonly used playfully during any kind of scene. Words such as \"no\", \"stop\", and \"don't\", are often inappropriate as a safeword if the roleplaying aspect includes the illusion of non-consent. The most commonly used safewords are \"red\" and \"yellow\", with \"red\" meaning that play must stop immediately, and \"yellow\" meaning that the activity needs to slow down. At most clubs and group-organized BDSM parties and events, dungeon monitors (DMs) provide an additional safety net for the people playing there, ensuring that house rules are followed and safewords respected.\n\nBDSM participants are expected to understand practical safety aspects. For instance, they are expected to recognize that parts of the body can be damaged, such as nerves and blood vessels by contusion, or that skin that can be scarred. Using crops, whips, or floggers, the top's fine motor skills and anatomical knowledge can make the difference between a satisfying session for the bottom and a highly unpleasant experience that may even entail severe physical harm. The very broad range of BDSM \"toys\" and physical and psychological control techniques often requires a far-reaching knowledge of details related to the requirements of the individual session, such as anatomy, physics, and psychology. Despite these risks, BDSM activities usually result in far less severe injuries than sports like boxing and football, and BDSM practitioners do not visit emergency rooms any more often than the general population.\n\nIt is necessary to be able to identify each person's psychological \"squicks\" or triggers in advance to avoid them. Such losses of emotional balance due to sensory or emotional overload are a fairly commonly discussed issue. It is important to follow participants' reactions empathetically and continue or stop accordingly. For some players, sparking \"freakouts\" or deliberately using triggers may be a desired outcome. Safewords are one way for BDSM practices to protect both parties. However, partners should be aware of each other's psychological states and behaviors to prevent instances where the \"freakouts\" prevent the use of safewords.\n\nAt one end of the spectrum are those who are indifferent to, or even reject physical stimulation. At the other end of the spectrum are bottoms who enjoy discipline and erotic humiliation but are not willing to be subordinate to the person who applies it. The bottom is frequently the partner who specifies the basic conditions of the session and gives instructions, directly or indirectly, in the negotiation, while the top often respects this guidance. Other bottoms often called \"brats\" try to incur punishment from their tops by provoking them or \"misbehaving\". Nevertheless, a purist \"school\" exists within the BDSM community, which regards such \"topping from the bottom\" as rude or even incompatible with the standards of BDSM relations.\n\n\nBDSM practitioners sometimes regard the practice of BDSM in their sex life as roleplaying and so often use the terms \"play\" and \"playing\" to describe activities where in their roles. Play of this sort for a specified period of time is often called a \"session\", and the contents and the circumstances of play are often referred to as the \"scene\". It is also common in personal relationships to use the term \"kink play\" for BDSM activities, or more specific terms for the type of activity. The relationships can be of varied types.\n\nEarly writings on BDSM both by the academic and BDSM community spoke little of long-term relationships with some in the gay leather community suggesting short-term play relationships to be the only feasible relationship models, and recommending people to get married and \"play\" with BDSM outside of marriage. In recent times though writers of BDSM and sites for BDSM have been more focused on long-term relationships.\n\nA 2003 study, the first to look at these relationships, fully demonstrated that \"quality long-term functioning relationships\" exist among practitioners of BDSM, with either sex being the top or bottom (homosexual couples were not looked at). Respondents in the study expressed their BDSM orientation to be built into who they are, but considered exploring their BDSM interests an ongoing task, and showed flexibility and adaptability in order to match their interests with their partners. The \"perfect match\" where both in the relationship shared the same tastes and desires was rare, and most relationships required both partners to take up or put away some of their desires. The BDSM activities that the couples partook in varied in sexual to nonsexual significance for the partners who reported doing certain BDSM activities for \"couple bonding, stress release, and spiritual quests\". The most reported issue amongst respondents was not finding enough time to be in role with most adopting a lifestyle wherein both partners maintain their dominant or submissive role throughout the day.\n\nAmongst the respondents, it was typically the bottoms who wanted to play harder, and be more restricted into their roles when there was a difference in desire to play in the relationship. The author of the study, Bert Cutler, speculated that tops may be less often in the mood to play due to the increased demand for responsibility on their part: being aware of the safety of the situation and prepared to remove the bottom from a dangerous scenario, being conscious of the desires and limits of the bottom, and so on. The author of the study stressed that successful long-term BDSM relationships came after \"early and thorough disclosure\" from both parties of their BDSM interests.\n\nMany of those engaged in long-term BDSM relationships learned their skills from larger BDSM organizations and communities There was a lot of discussion by the respondents on the amount of control the top possessed in the relationships with almost non-existent discussion of the top \"being better, or smarter, or of more value\" than the bottom.\nCouples were generally of the same mind of whether or not they were in an ongoing relationship, but in such cases the bottom was not locked up constantly, but that their role in the context of the relationship was always present, even when the top was doing non-dominant activities such as household chores, or the bottom being in a more dominant position. In its conclusion the study states:\n\nThe respondents valued themselves, their partners, and their relationships. All couples expressed considerable goodwill toward their partners. The power exchange between the cohorts appears to be serving purposes beyond any sexual satisfaction, including experiencing a sense of being taken care of and bonding with a partner.\n\nThe study further goes on to list three aspects that made the successful relationships work: early disclosure of interests and continued transparency, a commitment to personal growth, and the use of the dominant/submissive roles as a tool to maintain the relationship. In his closing remarks, the author of the study theorizes that due to the serious potential for harm, couples in BDSM relationships develop increased communication that may be higher than in mainstream relationships.\n\nA professional dominatrix or professional dominant, often referred to within the culture as a \"pro-dom(me)\", offers services encompassing the range of bondage, discipline, and dominance in exchange for money. The term \"dominatrix\" is little-used within the non-professional BDSM scene. A non-professional dominant woman is more commonly referred to simply as a \"domme\", \"dominant\", or \"femdom\" (short for female dominance). There are also services provided by professional female submissives (\"pro-subs\"). A professional submissive consents to her client's dominant behavior within negotiated limits, and often works within a professional dungeon. Professional submissives, although far more rare, do exist. Most of the people who work as subs normally have tendencies towards such activities, especially when sadomasochism is involved. Males also work as professional \"tops\" in BDSM, and are called \"masters\" or \"doms\". However it is much more rare to find a male in this profession. A male \"pro-dom\" typically only works with male clientele.\n\nIn BDSM, a \"scene\" is the stage or setting where BDSM activity takes place, as well as the activity itself. The physical place where a BDSM activity takes place is usually called a dungeon, though some prefer less dramatic terms, including \"playspace\", or \"club\". A BDSM activity can, but need not, involve sexual activity or sexual roleplay. A characteristic of many BDSM relationships is the power exchange from the bottom to the dominant partner, and bondage features prominently in BDSM scenes and sexual roleplay.\n\n'The Scene' (including use of the definite article 'the') is also used in the BDSM community to refer to the BDSM community as a whole. Thus someone who is on 'the Scene', and prepared to play in public, might take part in 'a scene' at a public play party.\n\nA scene can take place in private between two or more people, and can involve a domestic arrangement, such as servitude or a casual or committed lifestyle master/slave relationship. BDSM elements may involve settings of slave training or punishment for breaches of instructions.\n\nA scene can also take place in a club, where the play can be viewed by others. When a scene takes place in a public setting, it may be because the participants enjoy being watched by others, or because of the equipment available, or because having third parties present adds safety for play partners who have only recently met.\n\nStandard social etiquette rules still apply when at a BDSM event, such as not intimately touching someone you do not know, not touching someone else's belongings (including toys), and abiding by dress codes. Many events open to the public also have rules addressing alcohol consumption, recreational drugs, cell phones, and photography.\n\nA specific scene takes place within the general conventions and etiquette of BDSM, such as requirements for mutual consent and agreement as to the limits of any BDSM activity. This agreement can be incorporated into a formal contract. In addition, most clubs have additional rules which regulate how onlookers may interact with the actual participants in a scene. As is the general rule in BDSM, these are founded on the catchphrase \"safe, sane, and consensual\".\n\nBDSM play parties are events in which BDSM practitioners and other similarly interested people meet in order to communicate, share experiences and knowledge, and to \"play\" in an erotic atmosphere. The parties show similarities with ones in the dark culture, being based on a more or less strictly enforced dress code; most often clothing made of latex, leather or vinyl/PVC, lycra and so on., emphasizing the body's shape and the primary and secondary sexual characteristic. The requirement for such dress codes differ. While some events have none, others have a policy in order to create a more coherent atmosphere and to prevent onlookers from taking part.\n\nAt these parties, BDSM can be publicly performed on a stage, or more privately in separate \"dungeons\". A reason for the relatively fast spread of this kind of event is the opportunity to use a wide range of \"playing equipment\", which in most apartments or houses is unavailable. Slings, St. Andrew's crosses (or similar restraining constructs), spanking benches, and punishing supports or cages are often made available. The problem of noise disturbance is also lessened at these events, while in the home setting many BDSM activities can be limited by this factor. In addition, such parties offer both exhibitionists and voyeurs a forum to indulge their inclinations without social criticism. Sexual intercourse is not permitted within most public BDSM play spaces or not often seen in others, because it is not the emphasis of this kind of play. In order to ensure the maximum safety and comfort for the participants certain standards of behavior have evolved; these include aspects of courtesy, privacy, respect and safewords. Today BDSM parties are taking place in most of the larger cities in the Western world.\n\nThis scene appears particularly on the Internet, in publications, and in meetings such as at fetish clubs (like Torture Garden), SM parties, gatherings called munches, and erotic fairs like Venus Berlin. The annual Folsom Street Fair is the world's largest BDSM event and is held in San Francisco. It has its roots in the gay leather movement. The weekend long festivities include a wide range of sadomasochistic erotica in a public clothing optional space between 8th and 13th streets with nightly parties associated with the organization.\n\nThere are also conventions such as Living in Leather and Black Rose.\n\nIt has often been assumed that a preference for BDSM is a consequence of childhood abuse. Research indicates that there is no evidence for this claim. Some reports suggest that people abused as children may have more BDSM injuries and have difficulty with safe words being recognized as meaning stop the previously consensual behavior, thus, it is possible that people choosing BDSM as part of their lifestyle, who also were previously abused, may have had more police or hospital reports of injuries. There is also a link between transgender individuals who have been abused and violence occurring in BDSM activities\n\nThere are a number of reasons commonly given for why a sadomasochist finds the practice of S&M enjoyable, and the answer is largely dependent on the individual. For some, taking on a role of compliance or helplessness offers a form of therapeutic escape; from the stresses of life, from responsibility, or from guilt. For others, being under the power of a strong, controlling presence may evoke the feelings of safety and protection associated with childhood. They likewise may derive satisfaction from earning the approval of that figure \"(see: Servitude (BDSM))\". A sadist, on the other hand, may enjoy the feeling of power and authority that comes from playing the dominant role, or receive pleasure vicariously through the suffering of the masochist. It is poorly understood, though, what ultimately connects these emotional experiences to sexual gratification, or how that connection initially forms.\nJoseph Merlino, author and psychiatry adviser to the \"New York Daily News\", said in an interview that a sadomasochistic relationship, as long as it is consensual, is not a psychological problem:\n\nIt is agreed on by some psychologists that experiences during early sexual development can have a profound effect on the character of sexuality later in life. Sadomasochistic desires, however, seem to form at a variety of ages. Some individuals report having had them before puberty, while others do not discover them until well into adulthood. According to one study, the majority of male sadomasochists (53%) developed their interest before the age of 15, while the majority of females (78%) developed their interest afterwards (Breslow, Evans, and Langley 1985). The prevalence of sadomasochism within the general population is unknown. Despite female sadists being less visible than males, some surveys have resulted in comparable amounts of sadistic fantasies between females and males. The results of such studies demonstrate that one's sex does not determine preference for sadism.\n\nFollowing a phenomenological study of nine individuals involved in sexual masochistic sessions who regarded pain as central to their experience, sexual masochism was described as an addiction-like tendency, with several features resembling that of drug addiction: craving, intoxication, tolerance and withdrawal. It was also demonstrated how the first masochistic experience is placed on a pedestal, with subsequent use aiming at retrieving this lost sensation, much as described in the descriptive literature on addiction. The addictive pattern presented in this study suggests an association with behavioral spin as found in problem gamblers.\n\nBDSM is practiced in all social strata and is common in both heterosexual and homosexual men and women in varied occurrences and intensities. The spectrum ranges from couples with no connections to the subculture outside of their bedrooms or homes, without any awareness of the concept of BDSM, playing \"tie-me-up-games\", to public scenes on St. Andrew's crosses at large events such as the Folsom Street Fair in San Francisco. Estimation on the overall percentage of BDSM related sexual behaviour vary but it is no longer assumed to be uncommon.\n\nAlfred Kinsey stated in his 1953 nonfiction book \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Female\" that 12% of females and 22% of males reported having an erotic response to a sadomasochistic story. In that book erotic responses to being bitten were given as:\nA non-representative survey on the sexual behaviour of American students published in 1997 and based on questionnaires had a response rate of about 8–9%. Its results showed 15% of homosexual and bisexual males, 21% of lesbian and female bisexual students, 11% of heterosexual males and 9% of female heterosexual students committed to BDSM related fantasies. In all groups the level of practical BDSM experiences were around 6%. Within the group of openly lesbian and bisexual females the quote was significantly higher, at 21%. Independent of their sexual orientation, about 12% of all questioned students, 16% of lesbians and female bisexuals and 8% of heterosexual males articulated an interest in spanking. Experience with this sexual behaviour was indicated by 30% of male heterosexuals, 33% of female bisexuals and lesbians, and 24% of the male gay and bisexual men and female heterosexual women. Even though this study was not considered representative, other surveys indicate similar dimensions in a differing target groups.\n\nA representative study done from 2001 to 2002 in Australia found that 1.8% of sexually active people (2.2% men, 1.3% women but no significant sex difference) had engaged in BDSM activity in the previous year. Of the entire sample, 1.8% men and 1.3% women had been involved in BDSM. BDSM activity was significantly more likely among bisexuals and homosexuals of both sexes. But among men in general, there was no relationship effect of age, education, language spoken at home, or relationship status. Among women, in this study, activity was most common for those between 16 and 19 years of age and least likely for females over 50 years. Activity was also significantly more likely for women who had a regular partner they did not live with, but was not significantly related with speaking a language other than English or education.\n\nAnother representative study, published in 1999 by the German Institut für rationale Psychologie, found that about 2/3 of the interviewed women stated a desire to be at the mercy of their sexual partners from time to time. 69% admitted to fantasies dealing with sexual submissiveness, 42% stated interest in explicit BDSM techniques, 25% in bondage. A 1976 study in the general US population suggests three percent have had positive experiences with Bondage or master-slave roleplaying. Overall 12% of the interviewed females and 18% of the males were willing to try it. A 1990 Kinsey Institute report stated that 5% to 10% of Americans occasionally engage in sexual activities related to BDSM. 11% of men and 17% of women reported trying bondage. Some elements of BDSM have been popularized through increased media coverage since the middle 1990s. Thus both black leather clothing, sexual jewellery such as chains and dominance roleplay appear increasingly outside of BDSM contexts.\n\nAccording to yet another survey of 317,000 people in 41 countries, about 20% of the surveyed have at least used masks, blindfolds or other bondage utilities once, and 5% explicitly connected themselves with BDSM. In 2004, 19% mentioned spanking as one of their practices and 22% confirmed the use of blindfolds or handcuffs.\n\nA 1985 study found 52 out of 182 female respondents (28%) were involved in sadomasochistic activities.\n\nA 2009 study on two separate samples of male undergraduate students in Canada found that 62 to 65%, depending on the sample, had entertained sadistic fantasies, and 22 to 39% engaged in sadistic behaviors during sex. The figures were 62 and 52% for bondage fantasies, and 14 to 23% for bondage behaviors. A 2014 study involving a mixed sample of Canadian college students and online volunteers, both male and female, reported that 19% of male samples and 10% of female samples rated the sadistic scenarios described in a questionnaire as being at least \"slightly arousing\" on a scale that ranged from \"very repulsive\" to \"very arousing\"; the difference was statistically significant. The corresponding figures for the masochistic scenarios were 15% for male students and 17% for female students, a non-significant difference. In a 2011 study on 367 middle-aged and elderly men recruited from the broader community in Berlin, 21.8% of the men self-reported sadistic fantasies and 15.5% sadistic behaviors; 24.8% self-reported any such fantasy and/or behavior. The corresponding figures for self-reported masochism were 15.8% for fantasy, 12.3% for behavior, and 18.5% for fantasy and/or behavior. In a 2008 study on gay men in Puerto Rico, 14.8% of the over 425 community volunteers reported any sadistic fantasy, desire or behavior in their lifetime; the corresponding figure for masochism was 15.7%. A 2017 cross-sectional representative survey among the general Belgian population demonstrated a substantial prevalence of BDSM fantasies and activities; 12.5% of the population performed one of more BDSM-practices on a regular basis.\n\nReflecting changes in social norms, modern medical opinion is now moving away from regarding BDSM activities as medical disorders, unless they are nonconsensual or involve significant distress or harm.\n\nIn the past, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), the American Psychiatric Association's manual, defined some BDSM activities as sexual disorders. Following campaigns from advocacy organizations including the National Coalition for Sexual Freedom, the current version of the DSM, DSM-5, excludes consensual BDSM from diagnosis when the sexual interests cause no harm or distress.\n\nThe World Health Organization's International Classification of Diseases (ICD) has made similar moves in recent years.\n\nSection F65 of the current revision, ICD-10, indicates that \"mild degrees of sadomasochistic stimulation are commonly used to enhance otherwise normal sexual activity\". The diagnostic guidelines for the ICD-10 state that this class of diagnosis should only be made \"if sadomasochistic activity is the most important source of stimulation or necessary for sexual gratification\".\n\nIn Europe, an organization called ReviseF65 has worked to remove sadomasochism from the ICD. In 1995, Denmark became the first European Union country to have completely removed sadomasochism from its national classification of diseases. This was followed by Sweden in 2009, Norway in 2010 and Finland 2011. Recent surveys on the spread of BDSM fantasies and practices show strong variations in the range of their results. Nonetheless, researchers assume that 5 to 25 percent of the population practices sexual behavior related to pain or dominance and submission. The population with related fantasies is believed to be even larger.\n\nThe ICD is in the process of revision, and recent drafts have reflected these changes in social norms. , the final advance preview of the ICD-11 has de-pathologised most things listed in ICD-10 section F65, characterizing as pathological only those activities which are either coercive, or involving significant risk of injury or death, or distressing to the individual committing them, and specifically excluding consensual sexual sadism and masochism from being regarded as pathological. The final advance text is to be officially presented to the members of the WHO in 2019, ready to come into effect in 2022.\n\nSome people who feel attracted by the situations usually compiled under the term BDSM reach a point where they decide to come out of the closet, though many sadomasochists keep themselves closeted. Even so, depending upon a survey's participants, about 5 to 25 percent of the US population show affinity to the subject. Other than a few artists and writers, practically no celebrities are publicly known as sadomasochists.\n\nPublic knowledge of one's BDSM lifestyle can have devastating vocational and social effects for sadomasochists. Many face severe professional consequences or social rejection if they are exposed, either voluntarily or involuntarily, as sadomasochists.\n\nWithin feminist circles the discussion has been split roughly into two camps: some who see BDSM as an aspect or reflection of oppression (for example, Alice Schwarzer) and, on the other side, pro-BDSM feminists, often grouped under the banner of sex-positive feminism (see Samois); both of them can be traced back to the 1970s.\n\nSome feminists have criticized BDSM for eroticizing power and violence, and for reinforcing misogyny. They argue that women who engage in BDSM are making a choice that is ultimately bad for women. Feminist defenders of BDSM argue that consensual BDSM activities are enjoyed by many women and validate the sexual inclinations of these women. They argue that there is no connection between consensual kinky activities and sex crimes, and that feminists should not attack other women's sexual desires as being \"anti-feminist\". They also state that the main point of feminism is to give an individual woman free choices in her life; which includes her sexual desire. While some feminists suggest connections between consensual BDSM scenes and non-consensual rape and sexual assault, other sex-positive ones find the notion insulting to women.\n\nIt is often mentioned that in BDSM, roles are not fixed to gender, but personal preferences. The dominant partner in a heterosexual relationship may be the woman rather than the man; or BDSM may be part of male/male or female/female sexual relationships. Finally, some people switch, taking either a dominant or submissive role on different occasions. Several studies investigating the possibility of correlation between BDSM pornography and the violence against women also indicate a lack of correlation. As an example, Japan is listed as the country with the lowest sexual crime rate out of all the industrialized nations, despite being known for its distinct BDSM and bondage pornography (see Pornography in Japan). In 1991 a lateral survey came to the conclusion that between 1964 and 1984, despite the increase in amount and availability of sadomasochistic pornography in the US, Germany, Denmark and Sweden there is no correlation with the national number of rapes to be found.\n\nOperation Spanner in the UK proves that BDSM practitioners still run the risk of being stigmatized as criminals. In 2003, the media coverage of Jack McGeorge showed that simply participating and working in BDSM support groups poses risks to one's job, even in countries where no law restricts it. Here a clear difference can be seen to the situation of homosexuality. The psychological strain appearing in some individual cases is normally neither articulated nor acknowledged in public. Nevertheless, it leads to a difficult psychological situation in which the person concerned can be exposed to high levels of emotional stress.\n\nIn the stages of \"self awareness\", he or she realizes their desires related to BDSM scenarios or decides to be open for such. Some authors call this \"internal coming-out\". Two separate surveys on this topic independently came to the conclusion that 58 percent and 67 percent of the sample respectively, had realized their disposition before their 19th birthday. Other surveys on this topic show comparable results. Independent of age, coming-out can potentially result in a difficult life crisis, sometimes leading to thoughts or acts of suicide. While homosexuals have created support networks in the last decades, sadomasochistic support networks are just starting to develop in most countries. In German speaking countries they are only moderately more developed. The Internet is the prime contact point for support groups today, allowing for local and international networking. In the US Kink Aware Professionals (KAP) a privately funded, non-profit service provides the community with referrals to psychotherapeutic, medical, and legal professionals who are knowledgeable about and sensitive to the BDSM, fetish, and leather community. In the US and the UK, the Woodhull Freedom Foundation & Federation, National Coalition for Sexual Freedom (NCSF) and Sexual Freedom Coalition (SFC) have emerged to represent the interests of sadomasochists. The German Bundesvereinigung Sadomasochismus is committed to the same aim of providing information and driving press relations. In 1996 the website and mailing list Datenschlag went online in German and English providing the largest bibliography, as well as one of the most extensive historical collections of sources related to BDSM.\n\nRichters et al. (2008) study also found that people who engaged in BDSM were more likely to have experienced a wider range of sexual practices (e.g. oral or anal sex, more than one partner, group sex, phone sex, viewed pornography, used a sex toy, fisting, rimming, etc.). They were, however, not any more likely to have been coerced, unhappy, anxious, or experiencing sexual difficulties. On the contrary, men who had engaged in BDSM scored lower on a psychological distress scale than men who did not.\n\nThere have been few studies on the psychological aspects of BDSM using modern scientific standards. Psychotherapist Charles Moser has said there is no evidence for the theory that BDSM has common symptoms or any common psychopathology, emphasizing that there is no evidence that BDSM practitioners have any special psychiatric other problems based on their sexual preferences.\n\nProblems do sometimes occur in the area of self classification by the person concerned. During the phase of the \"coming-out\", self-questioning related to one's own \"normality\" is quite common. According to Moser, the discovery of BDSM preferences \"can\" result in fear of the current non-BDSM relationship's destruction. This, combined with the fear of discrimination in everyday life, leads in some cases to a double life which can be highly burdensome. At the same time, the denial of BDSM preferences can induce stress and dissatisfaction with one's own \"vanilla\"-lifestyle, feeding the apprehension of finding no partner. Moser states that BDSM practitioners having problems finding BDSM partners would probably have problems in finding a non-BDSM partner as well. The wish to remove BDSM preferences is another possible reason for psychological problems since it is not possible in most cases. Finally, the scientist states that BDSM practitioners seldom commit violent crimes. From his point of view, crimes of BDSM practitioners usually have no connection with the BDSM components existing in their life. Moser's study comes to the conclusion that there is no scientific evidence, which could give reason to refuse members of this group work- or safety certificates, adoption possibilities, custody or other social rights or privileges. The Swiss psychoanalyst Fritz Morgenthaler shares a similar perspective in his book, \"Homosexuality, Heterosexuality, Perversion\" (1988). He states that possible problems result not necessarily from the non-normative behavior, but in most cases primarily from the real or feared reactions of the social environment towards their own preferences. In 1940 psychoanalyst Theodor Reik reached implicitly the same conclusion in his standard work \"Aus Leiden Freuden. Masochismus und Gesellschaft\".\n\nMoser's results are further supported by a 2008 Australian study by Richters \"et al.\" on the demographic and psychosocial features of BDSM participants. The study found that BDSM practitioners were no more likely to have experienced sexual assault than the control group, and were not more likely to feel unhappy or anxious. The BDSM males reported higher levels of psychological well-being than the controls. It was concluded that \"BDSM is simply a sexual interest or subculture attractive to a minority, not a pathological symptom of past abuse or difficulty with 'normal' sex.\"\n\nSeveral recent studies have been conducted on the gender differences and personality traits of BDSM practitioners. Wismeijer & van Assen (2013) found that \"the association of BDSM role and gender was strong and significant\" with only 8% of women in the study being dominant compared to 75% being submissive.; Hébert & Weaver (2014) found that 9% of women in their study were dominant compared to 88% submissive; and Weierstall1 & Giebel (2017) likewise found a significant difference, with 19% of women in the study as dominant compared to 74% as submissive. They concluded that \"men more often display an engagement in dominant practices, whereas females take on the submissive part. This result is inline with a recent study about mate preferences that has shown that women have a generally higher preference for a dominant partner than men do (Giebel, Moran, Schawohl, & Weierstall, 2015). Women also prefer dominant men, and even men who are aggressive, for a short-term relationship and for the purpose of sexual intercourse (Giebel, Weierstall, Schauer, & Elbert, 2013)\". Similarly, studies on sexual fantasy differences between men and women show the latter prefer submissive and passive fantasies over dominant and active ones, with rape and force being common.\n\nOne common belief of BDSM and kink is that women are more likely to take on masochistic roles than men. Roy Baumeister (2010) actually had more male masochists in his study than female, and fewer male dominants than female. The lack of statistical significance in these gender differences suggests that no assumptions should be made regarding gender and masochistic roles in BDSM. One explanation why we might think otherwise lies in our social and cultural ideals about femininity; masochism may emphasize certain stereotypically feminine elements through activities like feminization of men and ultra-feminine clothing for women. But such tendencies of the submissive masochistic role should not be interpreted as a connection between it and the stereotypical female role—many masochistic scripts do not include any of these tendencies.\n\nBaumeister found that masochistic males experienced greater: severity of pain, frequency of humiliation (status-loss, degrading, oral), partner infidelity, active participation by other persons, and cross dressing. Trends also suggested that male masochism included more bondage and oral sex than female (though the data was not significant). Female masochists, on the other hand, experienced greater: frequency in pain, pain as punishment for 'misdeeds' in the relationship context, display humiliation, genital intercourse, and presence of non-participating audiences. The exclusiveness of dominant males in a heterosexual relationship happens because, historically, men in power preferred multiple partners. Finally, Baumeister observes a contrast between the 'intense sensation' focus of male masochism to a more 'meaning and emotion' centred female masochistic script.\n\nPrior argues that although some of these women may appear to be engaging in traditional subordinate or submissive roles, BDSM allows women in both dominant and submissive roles to express and experience personal power through their sexual identities. In a study that she conducted in 2013, she found that the majority of the women she interviewed identified as bottom, submissive, captive, or slave/sex slave. In turn, Prior was able to answer whether or not these women found an incongruity between their sexual identities and feminist identity. Her research found that these women saw little to no incongruity, and in fact felt that their feminist identity supported identities of submissive and slave. For them these are sexually and emotionally fulfilling roles and identities that, in some cases, feed other aspects of their lives. Prior contends that third wave feminism provides a space for women in BDSM communities to express their sexual identities fully, even when those identities seem counter-intuitive to the ideals of feminism. Furthermore, women who do identify as submissive, sexually or otherwise, find a space within BDSM where they can fully express themselves as integrated, well-balanced, and powerful women.\n\nLevitt, Moser, & Jamison's 1994 study provides a general, if outdated, description of characteristics of women in the sadomasochistic (S/M) subculture. They state that women in S/M tend to have higher education, become more aware of their desires as a young adult, are less likely to be married than the general population. The researchers found the majority of females identified as heterosexual and submissive, a substantial minority were versatile—able to switch between dominant and submissive roles—and a smaller minority identified with the dominant role exclusively. Oral sex, bondage and master-slave script were among the most popular activities, while feces/watersports were the least popular.\n\nBDSM is not a sexual orientation or identity, but it is considered one by some of its practitioners. The BDSM and kink scene is more often seen as a diverse pansexual community. Often this is a non-judgmental community where gender, sexuality, orientation, preferences are accepted as is or worked at to become something a person can be happy with. In research, studies have focused on bisexuality and its parallels with BDSM, as well as gay-straight differences between practitioners.\n\nDemographically, Nordling et al.'s (2006) study found no differences in age, but 43% of gay male respondents compared to 29% of straight males had university level education. The gay men also had higher incomes than the general population, and tended to work in white collar jobs while straight men tended toward blue collar ones. Because there were not enough female respondents (22), no conclusions could be drawn from them.\n\nSexually speaking, the same 2006 study by Nordling et al. found that gay males were aware of their S/M preferences and took part in them at an earlier age, preferring leather, anal sex, rimming, dildos and special equipment or uniform scenes. In contrast, straight men preferred verbal humiliation, mask and blindfolds, gags, rubber/latex outfits, caning, vaginal sex, and cross-dressing among other activities. From the questionnaire, researchers were able to identify four separate sexual themes: hyper-masculinity, giving and receiving pain, physical restriction (i.e. bondage), and psychological humiliation. Gay men preferred activities that tended towards hyper-masculinity while straight men showed greater preference for humiliation. Though there were not enough female respondents to draw a similar conclusion with, the fact that there is a difference in gay and straight men suggests strongly that S/M (and BDSM in general) can not be considered a homogenous phenomenon. As Nordling et al. (2006) puts it, \"People who identify as sadomasochists mean different things by these identifications.\" (54)\n\nIn Steve Lenius' original 2001 paper he explored the acceptance of bisexuality in a supposedly pansexual BDSM community. The reasoning behind this is that 'coming-out' had become primarily the territory of the gay and lesbian, with bisexuals feeling the push to be one or the other (and being right only half the time either way). What he found in 2001, was that people in BDSM were open to discussion about the topic of bisexuality and pansexuality and all controversies they bring to the table, but personal biases and issues stood in the way of actively using such labels. A decade later, Lenius (2011) looks back on his study and considers if anything has changed. He concluded that the standing of bisexuals in the BDSM and kink community was unchanged, and believed that positive shifts in attitude were moderated by society's changing views towards different sexualities and orientations. But Lenius (2011) does emphasize that the pansexual promoting BDSM community helped advance greater acceptance of alternative sexualities.\n\nBrandy Lin Simula (2012), on the other hand, argues that BDSM actively resists gender conforming and identified three different types of BDSM bisexuality: gender-switching, gender-based styles (taking on a different gendered style depending on gender of partner when playing), and rejection of gender (resisting the idea that gender matters in their play partners). Simula (2012) explains that practitioners of BDSM routinely challenge our concepts of sexuality by pushing the limits on pre-existing ideas of sexual orientation and gender norms. For some, BDSM and kink provides a platform in creating identities that are fluid, ever-changing.\n\nPsychiatry has an insensitive history in the area of BDSM. There have been many involvements by institutions of political power to marginalize subgroups and sexual minorities. Mental health professionals have a long history of holding negative assumptions and stereotypes about the BDSM community. Beginning with the DSM-II, Sexual Sadism and Sexual Masochism have been listed as sexually deviant behaviours. Sadism and masochism were also found in the personality disorder section. This negative assumption has not changed significantly which is evident in the continued inclusion of Sexual Sadism and Sexual Masochism as paraphilias in the DSM-IV-TR. The DSM-V, however, has depathologized the language around paraphilias in a way that signifies \"the APA's intent to not demand treatment for healthy consenting adult sexual expression\". These biases and misinformation can result in pathologizing and unintentional harm to clients who identify as sadists and/or masochists and medical professionals who have been trained under older editions of the DSM can be slow to change in their ways of clinical practice.\n\nAccording to Kolmes et al. (2006), major themes of biased and inadequate care to BDSM clients are:\n\n\nThese same researchers suggested that therapists should be open to learning more about BDSM, to show comfort in talking about BDSM issues, and to understand and promote \"safe, sane, consensual\" BDSM.\n\nThere has also been research which suggests BDSM can be a beneficial way for victims of sexual assault to deal with their trauma, most notably by Corie Hammers, but this work is limited in scope and to date, has not undergone empirical testing as a treatment.\n\nBoth terms were introduced to the medical field by German psychiatrist Richard von Krafft-Ebing in his 1886 compilation of case studies \"Psychopathia Sexualis\". Pain and physical violence are not essential in Krafft-Ebing's conception, and he defined \"masochism\" (German \"masochismus\") entirely in terms of control. Sigmund Freud, a psychoanalyst and a contemporary of Krafft-Ebing, noted that both were often found in the same individuals, and combined the two into a single dichotomous entity known as \"sadomasochism\" (German \"sadomasochismus\", often abbreviated as \"S&M\" or \"S/M\"). This observation is commonly verified in both literature and practice; many sadists and masochists define themselves as \"switchable\"—capable of taking pleasure in either role. However it has also been argued (Deleuze, \"Coldness and Cruelty\") that the concurrence of sadism and masochism in Freud's model should not be taken for granted.\n\nFreud introduced the terms \"primary\" and \"secondary\" masochism. Though this idea has come under a number of interpretations, in a primary masochism the masochist undergoes a complete, not just a partial, rejection by the model or courted object (or sadist), possibly involving the model taking a rival as a preferred mate. This complete rejection is related to the death drive (\"todestrieb\") in Freud's psychoanalysis. In a secondary masochism, by contrast, the masochist experiences a less serious, more feigned rejection and punishment by the model. Secondary masochism, in other words, is the relatively casual version, more akin to a charade, and most commentators are quick to point out its contrivedness.\n\nRejection is not desired by a primary masochist in quite the same sense as the feigned rejection occurring within a mutually consensual relationship—or even where the masochist happens to be the one having actual initiative power (this is the confusion of the distinctions of casual appearance and discrete motives which underlies the analyses of Deleuze and Sartre, for example). In \"Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World\", René Girard attempts to resuscitate and reinterpret Freud's distinction of primary and secondary masochism, in connection with his own philosophy.\n\nBoth Krafft-Ebing and Freud assumed that sadism in men resulted from the distortion of the aggressive component of the male sexual instinct. Masochism in men, however, was seen as a more significant aberration, contrary to the nature of male sexuality. Freud doubted that masochism in men was ever a primary tendency, and speculated that it may exist only as a transformation of sadism. Sadomasochism in women received comparatively little discussion, as it was believed that it occurred primarily in men. Both also assumed that masochism was so inherent to female sexuality that it would be difficult to distinguish as a separate inclination.\n\nHavelock Ellis, in \"Studies in the Psychology of Sex\", argued that there is no clear distinction between the aspects of sadism and masochism, and that they may be regarded as complementary emotional states. He also made the important point that sadomasochism is concerned only with pain in regard to sexual pleasure, and not in regard to cruelty, as Freud had suggested. In other words, the sadomasochist generally desires that the pain be inflicted or received in love, not in abuse, for the pleasure of either one or both participants. This mutual pleasure may even be essential for the satisfaction of those involved.\n\nHere, Ellis touches upon the often paradoxical nature of widely reported consensual S&M practices. It is described as not simply pain to initiate pleasure, but violence—\"or the simulation of involuntary violent acts\"—said to express love. This irony is highly evident in the observation by many, that not only are popularly practiced sadomasochistic activities usually performed at the express request of the masochist, but that it is often the designated masochist who may direct such activities, through subtle emotional cues perceived or mutually understood and consensually recognized by the designated sadist.\n\nIn his essay \"Coldness and Cruelty\", (originally \"Présentation de Sacher-Masoch\", 1967) Gilles Deleuze rejects the term \"sadomasochism\" as artificial, especially in the context of the quintessentially modern masochistic work, Sacher-Masoch's \"Venus In Furs\". Deleuze's counterargument is that the tendency toward masochism is based on intensified desire brought on or enhanced by the acting out of frustration at the delay of gratification. Taken to its extreme, an intolerably indefinite delay is 'rewarded' by punitive perpetual delay, manifested as unwavering coldness. The masochist derives pleasure from, as Deleuze puts it, the \"Contract\": the process by which he can control another individual and turn the individual into someone cold and callous. The sadist, in contrast, derives pleasure from the \"Law\": the unavoidable power that places one person below another. The sadist attempts to destroy the ego in an effort to unify the id and super-ego, in effect gratifying the most base desires the sadist can express while ignoring or completely suppressing the will of the ego, or of the conscience. Thus, Deleuze attempts to argue that masochism and sadism arise from such different impulses that the combination of the two terms is meaningless and misleading. A masochist's perception of their own self-subjugating sadistic desires and capacities are treated by Deleuze as reactions to prior experience of sadistic objectification. (E.g. in terms of psychology, compulsively defensive appeasement of pathological guilt feelings as opposed to the volition of a strong free will.) The epilogue of \"Venus In Furs\" shows the character of Severin has become embittered by his experiment in the alleged control of masochism, and advocates instead the domination of women.\n\nBefore Deleuze, however, Sartre had presented his own theory of sadism and masochism, at which Deleuze's deconstructive argument, which took away the symmetry of the two roles, was probably directed. Because the pleasure or power in looking at the victim figures prominently in sadism and masochism, Sartre was able to link these phenomena to his famous philosophy of the \"Look of the Other\". Sartre argued that masochism is an attempt by the \"For-itself\" (consciousness) to reduce itself to nothing, becoming an object that is drowned out by the \"abyss of the Other's subjectivity\". By this Sartre means that, given that for the \"for-itself\" desire to attain a point of view in which it is both subject and object, one possible strategy is to gather and intensify every feeling and posture in which the self appears as an object to be rejected, tested, and humiliated; and in this way the for-itself strives toward a point of view in which there is only one subjectivity in the relationship, which would be both that of the abuser and the abused. Conversely, Sartre held sadism to be the effort to annihilate the subjectivity of the victim. That means that the sadist is exhilarated by the emotional distress of the victim because they seek a subjectivity that views the victim as both subject and object.\n\nThis argument may appear stronger if it is understood that this \"look of the other\" theory is either only an aspect of the faculties of desire, or somehow its primary faculty. This does not account for the turn that Deleuze took for his own theory of these matters, but the premise of \"desire as 'look'\" is associated with theoretical distinctions always detracted by Deleuze, in what he regarded as its essential error to recognize \"desire as lack\"—which he identified in the philosophical temperament of Plato, Socrates, and Lacan. For Deleuze, insofar as desire is a lack it is reducible to the \"look\".\n\nFinally, after Deleuze, René Girard included his account of sado-masochism in \"Things Hidden Since the Foundation of The World\", originally \"Des choses cachées depuis la fondation du monde\", 1978, making the chapter on masochism a coherent part of his theory of mimetic desire. In this view of sado-masochism, the violence of the practices are an expression of a peripheral rivalry that has developed around the actual love-object. There is clearly a similarity to Deleuze, since both in the violence surrounding the memory of mimetic crisis and its avoidance, and in the resistance to affection that is focused on by Deleuze, there is an understanding of the value of the love object in terms of the processes of its valuation, acquisition and the test it imposes on the suitor.\n\nNichols (2006) compiled some common clinical issues: countertransference, non-disclosure, coming-out, partner/families, and bleed-through.\n\nCountertransference is a common problem in clinical settings. Despite having no evidence, therapists may find themselves believing that their client's pathology is \"self-evident\". Therapists may feel intense disgust and aversive reactions. Feelings of countertransference can interfere with therapy. Another common problem is when clients conceal their sexual preferences from their therapists. This can compromise any therapy. To avoid non-disclosure, therapists are encouraged to communicate their openness in indirect ways with literatures and artworks in the waiting room. Therapists can also deliberately bring up BDSM topics during the course of therapy. With less informed therapists, sometimes they over-focus on clients' sexuality which detracts from original issues such as family relationships, depression, etc. A special subgroup that needs counselling is the \"newbie\". Individuals just coming out might have internalized shame, fear, and self-hatred about their sexual preferences. Therapists need to provide acceptance, care, and model positive attitude; providing reassurance, psychoeducation, and bibliotherapy for these clients is crucial. The average age when BDSM individuals realize their sexual preference is around 26 years. Many people hide their sexuality until they can no longer contain their desires. However, they may have married or had children by this point. Therefore, therapists need to facilitate couple's counselling and disclosure. It is important for therapists to consider fairness to partner and family of clients. In situations when boundaries between roles in the bedroom and roles in the rest of the relationship blurs, a \"bleed-through\" problem has occurred. Therapists need to help clients resolve distress and deal with any underlying problems that led to the initial bleed-through.\n\nPractices of BDSM survive from some of the oldest textual records in the world, associated with rituals to the Goddess Inanna (Ishtar in Akkadian). Cuneiform texts dedicated to Inanna which incorporate domination rituals. In particular she points to ancient writings such as Inanna and Ebih (in which the Goddess dominates Ebih), and Hymn to Inanna describing cross-dressing transformations and rituals \"imbued with pain and ecstasy, bringing about initation and journeys of altered states of consciousness; punishment, moaning, ecstasy, lament and song, participants exhausting themselves in weeping and grief.\"\n\nDuring the ninth century BC, ritual flagellations were performed in Artemis Orthia, one of the most important religious areas of ancient Sparta, where the Cult of Orthia, a preolympic religion, was practiced. Here ritual flagellation called \"diamastigosis\" took place, in which young adolescent men were whipped in a ceremony overseen by the priestess. These are referred to by a number of ancient authors, including Pausanius (III, 16: 10-11).\n\nOne of the oldest graphical proofs of sadomasochistic activities is found in the Etruscan Tomb of the Whipping near Tarquinia, which dates to the fifth century BC. Inside the tomb there is fresco which portrays two men who flagellate a woman with a cane and a hand during an erotic situation. Another reference related to flagellation is to be found in the sixth book of the \"Satires\" of the ancient Roman Poet Juvenal (1st–2nd century A.D.), further reference can be found in Petronius's \"Satyricon\" where a delinquent is whipped for sexual arousal. Anecdotal narratives related to humans who have had themselves voluntary bound, flagellated or whipped as a substitute for sex or as part of foreplay reach back to the third and fourth century.\n\nIn Pompeii, a whip-mistress figure with wings is depicted on the wall of the Villa of Mysteries, as part of an initiation of a young woman into the Mysteries. The whip-mistress role drove the sacred initiation of ceremonial death and rebirth. The archaic Greek Aphrodite may too once have been armed with an implement, with archaeological evidence of armed Aphrodite known from a number of locations in Cythera, Acrocorinth and Sparta, and which may have been a whip.\n\nThe \"Kama Sutra\" of India describes four different kinds of hitting during lovemaking, the allowed regions of the human body to target and different kinds of joyful \"cries of pain\" practiced by bottoms. The collection of historic texts related to sensuous experiences explicitly emphasizes that impact play, biting and pinching during sexual activities should only be performed consensually since only some women consider such behavior to be joyful. From this perspective the Kama Sutra can be considered as one of the first written resources dealing with sadomasochistic activities and safety rules. Further texts with sadomasochistic connotation appear worldwide during the following centuries on a regular basis.\n\nThere are anecdotal reports of people willingly being bound or whipped, as a prelude to or substitute for sex, during the 14th century. The medieval phenomenon of courtly love in all of its slavish devotion and ambivalence has been suggested by some writers to be a precursor of BDSM. Some sources claim that BDSM as a distinct form of sexual behavior originated at the beginning of the 18th century when Western civilization began medically and legally categorizing sexual behavior (see Etymology).\n\nFlagellation practiced within an erotic setting has been recorded from at least the 1590s evidenced by a John Davies epigram, and references to \"flogging schools\" in Thomas Shadwell's \"The Virtuoso\" (1676) and Tim Tell-Troth's \"Knavery of Astrology\" (1680). Visual evidence such as mezzotints and print media is also identified revealing scenes of flagellation, such as \"The Cully Flaug'd\" from the British Museum collection.\n\nJohn Cleland's novel \"Fanny Hill\", published in 1749, incorporates a flagellation scene between the character's protagonist Fanny Hill and Mr Barville. A large number of flagellation publications followed, including \"\" (c. 1761), promoting the names of ladies offering the service in a lecture room with rods and cat o' nine tails.\n\nOther sources give a broader definition, citing BDSM-like behavior in earlier times and other cultures, such as the medieval flagellates and the physical ordeal rituals of some Native American societies.\n\nBDSM ideas and imagery have existed on the fringes of Western culture throughout the twentieth century. Robert Bienvenu attributes the origins of modern BDSM to three sources, which he names as \"European Fetish\" (from 1928), \"American Fetish\" (from 1934), and \"Gay Leather\" (from 1950). Another source are the sexual games played in brothels, which go back into the 19th century if not earlier. Charles Guyette was the first American to produce and distribute fetish related material (costumes, footwear, photography, props and accessories) in the US. His successor, Irving Klaw, produced commercial sexploitation film and photography with a BDSM theme (most notably with Bettie Page) and issued fetish comics (known then as \"chapter serials\") by the now-iconic artists John Willie, Gene Bilbrew, and Eric Stanton.\n\nStanton's model Bettie Page became at the same time one of the first successful models in the area of fetish photography and one of the most famous pin-up girls of American mainstream culture. Italian author and designer Guido Crepax was deeply influenced by him, coining the style and development of European adult comics in the second half of the twentieth century. The artists Helmut Newton and Robert Mapplethorpe are the most prominent examples of the increasing use of BDSM-related motives in modern photography and the public discussions still resulting from this.\n\nAlfred Binet first coined the term \"erotic fetishism\" in his 1887 book, \"Du fétichisme dans l’amour\" Richard von Krafft-Ebing saw BDSM interests as the end of a continuum.\n\nLeather has been a predominantly gay male term to refer to one fetish, but it can stand for many more. Members of the gay male leather community may wear leathers such as Motorcycle leathers, or may be attracted to men wearing leather. Leather and BDSM are seen as two parts of one whole. Much of the BDSM culture can be traced back to the gay male leather culture, which formalized itself out of the group of men who were soldiers returning home after World War II (1939–1945). WWII was the setting where countless homosexual men and women tasted the life among homosexual peers. Post-war, homosexual individuals congregated in larger cities such as New York, Chicago, San Francisco, and Los Angeles. They formed leather clubs and bike clubs, some were fraternal services. The establishment of Mr. Leather Contest and Mr. Drummer Contest were made around this time. This was the genesis of the gay male leather community. Many of the members were attracted to extreme forms of sexuality, for which peak expression was in the pre-AIDS 1970s. This subculture is epitomized by the \"Leatherman's Handbook\" by Larry Townsend, published in 1972, which describes in detail the practices and culture of gay male sadomasochists in the late 1960s and early 1970s.\nIn the early 1980s, lesbians also joined the leathermen as a recognizable element of the gay leather community. They also formed leather clubs, but there were some gender differences such as the absence of leatherwomen's bar. In 1981, the publication of \"Coming to Power\" by lesbian-feminist group Samois led to a greater knowledge and acceptance of BDSM in the lesbian community. By the 1990s, the gay men's and women's leather communities were no longer underground and played an important role in the kink community.\n\nToday the Leather Movement is generally seen as a part of the BDSM-culture instead of as a development deriving from gay subculture, even if a huge part of the BDSM-subculture was gay in the past. In the 1990s the so-called New Guard leather subculture evolved. This new orientation started to integrate psychological aspects into their play.\n\nThe San Francisco South of Market Leather History Alley consists of four works of art along Ringold Alley honoring leather culture; it opened in 2017. One of the works of art is metal bootprints along the curb which honor 28 people (including Steve McEachern, owner of the Catacombs, a gay and lesbian S/M fisting club, and Cynthia Slater, a founder of the Society of Janus, the second oldest BDSM organization in the United States) who were an important part of the leather communities of San Francisco.\n\nIn the late-eighties, the Internet provided a way of finding people with specialized interests around the world as well as on a local level, and communicating with them anonymously. This brought about an explosion of interest and knowledge of BDSM, particularly on the usenet group alt.sex.bondage. When that group became too cluttered with spam, the focus moved to soc.subculture.bondage-bdsm. With an increased focus on forms of social media, FetLife was formed, which advertises itself as \"a social network for the BDSM and fetish community\". It operates similarly to other social media sites, with the ability to make friends with other users, events, and pages of shared interests.\n\nIn addition to traditional sex shops, which sell sex paraphernalia, there has also been an explosive growth of online adult toy companies that specialize in leather/latex gear and BDSM toys. Once a very niche market, there are now very few sex toy companies that do not offer some sort of BDSM or fetish gear in their catalog. Kinky elements seem to have worked their way into \"vanilla\" markets. The former niche expanded to an important pillar of the business with adult accessories. Today practically all suppliers of sex toys do offer items which originally found usage in the BDSM subculture. Padded handcuffs, latex and leather garments, as well as more exotic items like soft whips for fondling and TENS for erotic electro stimulation can be found in catalogs aiming on classical vanilla target groups, indicating that former boundaries increasingly seem to shift.\n\nDuring the last years the Internet also provides a central platform for networking among individuals who are interested in the subject. Besides countless private and commercial choices there is an increasing number of local networks and support groups emerging. These groups often offer comprehensive background and health related information for people who have been unwillingly outed as well as contact lists with information on psychologists, physicians and lawyers who are familiar with BDSM related topics.\n\nIncreasingly, American universities are witnessing BDSM and kink education by providing student clubs, such as Columbia University's Conversio Virium and Iowa State University's Cuffs. University BDSM clubs are also found in the UK, Canada, Belgium, and Taiwan.\n\nSome American universities—such as Indiana University and Michigan State University—have professors who research and take classes on BDSM.\n\nSection 90 of the criminal code declares bodily injury (§§ 83-84) or the endangerment of physical security (§ 89) to not be subject to penalty in cases in which the victim has consented and the injury or endangerment does not offend moral sensibilities. Case law from the Austrian Supreme Court has consistently shown that bodily injury is only offensive to moral sensibilities, thus it is only punishable when a \"serious injury\" (a damage to health or an employment disability lasting more than 24 days) or the death of the \"victim\" results. A \"light injury\" is generally considered \"permissible\" when the \"victim\" has consented to it. In cases of threats to bodily well being the standard depends on the probability that an injury will actually occur. If serious injury or even death would be a likely result of a threat being carried out, then even the threat itself is considered punishable.\n\nIn 2004 a judge in Canada ruled that videos seized by the police featuring BDSM activities were not obscene, and did not constitute violence, but a \"normal and acceptable\" sexual activity between two consenting adults.\n\nIn 2011, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in \"R. v. J.A.\" that a person must have an active mind during the specific sexual activity in order to legally consent. The Court ruled that it is a criminal offence to perform a sexual act on an unconscious person—whether or not that person consented in advance.\n\nAccording to § 194 the charge of insult (slander) can only be prosecuted if the defamed person chooses to press charges. False imprisonment can be charged if the victim—when applying an objective view—can be considered to be impaired in his or her rights of free movement. According to § 228 of the German criminal code a person inflicting a bodily injury on another person with that person's permission violates the law only in cases where the act can be considered to have violated good morals in spite of permission having been given. On 26 May 2004 the Criminal Panel No. 2 of the Bundesgerichtshof (German Federal Court) ruled that sado-masochistically motivated physical injuries are not per se indecent and thus subject to § 228.\n\nFollowing cases in which sado-masochistic practices had been repeatedly used as pressure tactics against former partners in custody cases, the Appeals Court of Hamm ruled in February 2006 that sexual inclinations toward sado-masochism are no indication of a lack of capabilities for successful child-raising.\n\nIn Italian law BDSM is right on the border between crime and legality, and everything lies in the interpretation of the legal code by the judge. This concept is that anyone willingly causing \"injury\" to another person is to be punished. In this context though \"injury\" is legally defined as \"anything causing a condition of illness\", and \"illness\" is ill-defined itself in two different legal ways. The first is \"any anatomical or functional alteration of the organism\" (thus technically including little scratches and bruises too); The second is \"a significant worsening of a previous condition relevant to organic and relational processes, requiring any kind of therapy\". This could make it somewhat risky to play with someone as later the \"victim\" may call foul play citing even an insignificant mark as evidence against the partner. Also any injury requiring over 20 days of medical care must be denounced by the professional medic who discovers it, leading to automatic indictment of the person who caused it.\n\nIn September 2010 a Swedish court acquitted a 32-year-old man of assault for engaging in consensual BDSM play with a 16-year-old woman (the age of consent in Sweden is 15). Norway's legal system has likewise taken a similar position, that safe and consensual BDSM play should not be subject to criminal prosecution. This parallels the stance of the mental health professions in the Nordic countries which have removed sadomasochism from their respective lists of psychiatric illnesses.\n\nThe age of consent in Switzerland is 16 years which also applies for BDSM play. Minors (i.e. those under 16) are not subject to punishment for BDSM play as long as the age difference between them is less than three years. Certain practices however require granting consent for light injuries with only those over 18 permitted to give consent. On 1 April 2002 Articles 135 and 197 of the Swiss Criminal Code were tightened to make ownership of \"objects or demonstrations [...] which depict sexual acts with violent content\" a punishable offense. This law amounts to a general criminalization of sado-masochism since nearly every sado-masochist will have some kind of media which fulfills this criterion. Critics also object to the wording of the law which puts sado-masochists in the same category as pedophiles and pederasts.\n\nIn British law, consent is an absolute defence to common assault, but not necessarily to actual bodily harm, where courts may decide that consent is not valid, as occurred in the case of R v Brown. Accordingly, consensual activities in the UK may not constitute \"assault occasioning actual or grievous bodily harm\" in law. The Spanner Trust states that this is defined as activities which have caused injury \"of a lasting nature\" but that only a slight duration or injury might be considered \"lasting\" in law. The decision contrasts with the later case of R v Wilson in which conviction for non-sexual consensual branding within a marriage was overturned, the appeal court ruling that R v Brown was not an authority in all cases of consensual injury and criticizing the decision to prosecute.\n\nFollowing Operation Spanner the European Court of Human Rights ruled in January 1999 in Laskey, Jaggard and Brown v. United Kingdom that no violation of Article 8 occurred because the amount of physical or psychological harm that the law allows between any two people, even consenting adults, is to be determined by the jurisdiction the individuals live in, as it is the State's responsibility to balance the concerns of public health and well-being with the amount of control a State should be allowed to exercise over its citizens. In the Criminal Justice and Immigration Bill 2007, the British Government cited the Spanner case as justification for criminalizing images of consensual acts, as part of its proposed criminalization of possession of \"extreme pornography\". Another contrasting case was that of Stephen Lock in 2013, who was cleared of actual bodily harm on the grounds that the woman consented. In this case, the act was deemed to be sexual.\n\nThe United States Federal law does not list a specific criminal determination for consensual BDSM acts. Many BDSM practitioners cite the legal decision of People v. Jovanovic, 95 N.Y.2d 846 (2000), or the \"Cybersex Torture Case\", which was the first U.S. appellate decision to hold (in effect) that one does not commit assault if the victim consents. However, many individual states do criminalize specific BDSM actions within their state borders. Some states specifically address the idea of \"consent to BDSM acts\" within their assault laws, such as the state of New Jersey, which defines \"simple assault\" to be \"a disorderly persons offense unless committed in a fight or scuffle \"entered into by mutual consent\", in which case it is a petty disorderly persons offense\".\n\nOregon Ballot Measure 9 was a ballot measure in the U.S. state of Oregon in 1992, concerning sadism, masochism, gay rights, pedophilia, and public education, that drew widespread national attention. It would have added the following text to the Oregon Constitution:\n\nIt was defeated in 3 November 1992 general election with 638,527 votes in favor, 828,290 votes against.\n\nThe National Coalition for Sexual Freedom collects reports about punishment for sexual activities engaged in by consenting adults, and about its use in child custody cases.\n\nToday the BDSM culture exists in most western countries. This offers BDSM practitioners the opportunity to discuss BDSM relevant topics and problems with like-minded people. This culture is often viewed as a subculture, mainly because BDSM is often still regarded as \"unusual\" by some of the public. Many people hide their leaning from society since they are afraid of the incomprehension and of social exclusion. It is commonly known in the BDSM culture that there are practitioners living on all continents, but there is no documented evidence for many countries (due to restrictive laws and censorship motivated by politics or religion) except their presence in online BDSM communities and dating sites.\n\nIn contrast to frameworks seeking to explain sadomasochism through psychological, psychoanalytic, medical or forensic approaches, which seek to categorize behaviour and desires and find a root \"cause\", Romana Byrne suggests that such practices can be seen as examples of \"aesthetic sexuality\", in which a founding physiological or psychological impulse is irrelevant. Rather, sadism and masochism may be practiced through choice and deliberation, driven by certain aesthetic goals tied to style, pleasure, and identity. These practices, in certain circumstances and contexts, can be compared with the creation of art.\n\nOne of the most commonly used symbols of the BDSM community is a derivation of a triskelion shape within a circle. Various forms of triskele have had many uses and many meanings in many cultures; its BDSM usage derives from the \"Ring of O\" in the classic book \"Story of O\". The BDSM Emblem Project claims copyright over one particular specified form of the triskelion symbol; other variants of the triskelion are free from such copyright claims.\n\nThe leather pride flag is a symbol for the leather subculture and also widely used within BDSM. In continental Europe, the \"Ring of O\" is widespread among BDSM practitioners.\n\nThe triskelion as a BDSM symbol can easily be perceived as the three separate parts of the acronym BDSM; which are BD, DS, and SM (Bondage & Discipline, Dominance & Submission, Sadism & Masochism). They are three separate items, that are normally associated together.\n\nThe BDSM rights flag, shown to the right, is intended to represent the belief that people whose sexuality or relationship preferences include BDSM practises deserve the same human rights as everyone else, and should not be discriminated against for pursuing BDSM with consenting adults.\n\nThe flag is inspired by the leather pride flag and BDSM emblem, but is specifically intended to represent the concept of BDSM rights and to be without the other symbols' restrictions against commercial use. It is designed to be recognisable by people familiar with either the leather pride flag or BDSM triskelion (or triskele) as \"something to do with BDSM\"; and to be distinctive whether reproduced in full colour, or in black and white (or another pair of colours).\n\nBDSM and fetish items and styles have been spread widely in western societies' everyday life by different factors, such as avant-garde fashion, heavy metal, goth subculture, and science fiction TV series, and are often not consciously connected with their BDSM roots by many people. While it was mainly confined to the Punk and BDSM subcultures in the 1990s, it has since spread into wider parts of western societies.\n\n\nAlthough it would be possible to establish certain elements related to BDSM in classical theater, not until the emergence of contemporary theatre would some plays have BDSM as the main theme. Exemplifying this are two works: one Austrian, one German, in which BDSM is not only incorporated, but integral to the storyline of the play.\n\nAlthough examples of literature catering to BDSM and fetishistic tastes were created in earlier periods, BDSM literature as it exists today cannot be found much earlier than World War II.\n\nThe word Sadism originates from the works of Donatien Alphonse François, Marquis de Sade, and the word Masochism originates from Leopold von Sacher-Masoch, the author of \"Venus in Furs\". However, it is worth noting that the Marquis de Sade describes unconsented abuse in his works, such as in \"Justine\". \"Venus in Furs\" describes a consented domme-sub relationship.\n\nA central work in modern BDSM literature is undoubtedly the \"Story of O\" (1954) by Anne Desclos under the pseudonym Pauline Réage.\n\nOther notable works include \"9½ Weeks\" (1978) by Elizabeth McNeill, some works of the writer Anne Rice (\"Exit to Eden\", and her \"Claiming of Sleeping Beauty\" series of books), Jeanne de Berg (\"L'Image\" (1956) dedicated to Pauline Réage). Works from the Gor series by John Norman, and naturally all the works of Patrick Califia, Gloria Brame, the group Samois and many of the writer Georges Bataille (Histoire de l'oeil-Story of the Eye, Madame Edwarda, 1937), as well as Bob Flanagan: \"Slave Sonnets\" (1986), \"Fuck Journal\" (1987), \"A Taste of Honey\" (1990). A common part of many of the poems of Pablo Neruda is a reflection on feelings and sensations arising from the relations of EPE or erotic exchange of power. The \"Fifty Shades\" trilogy is a series of very popular erotic romance novels by E. L. James which involve BDSM; however the novels have been criticized for their inaccurate and harmful depiction of BDSM.\n\nIn the 21st century, a number of prestigious university presses, such as Duke University, Indiana University and University of Chicago, have published books on BDSM written by professors, thereby lending academic legitimacy to this once taboo topic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "188578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188578", "title": "Betamax", "text": "Betamax\n\nBetamax (also called Beta, as in its logo) is a consumer-level analog-recording and cassette format of magnetic tape for video. It was developed by Sony and was released in Japan on May 10, 1975. The first Betamax device introduced in the United States was the LV-1901 console, which included a color monitor, and appeared in stores in early November 1975. The cassettes contain videotape in a design similar to that of the earlier, professional , U-matic format. Betamax is obsolete, having lost the videotape format war to VHS. Production of Betamax recorders ceased in 2002; new Betamax cassettes were available until March 2016, when Sony stopped making and selling them.\n\nLike the rival videotape format VHS (introduced in Japan by JVC in October 1976 and in the United States by RCA in August 1977), Betamax has no guard band and uses azimuth recording to reduce crosstalk. According to Sony's history webpages, the name had a double meaning: \"beta\" is the Japanese word used to describe the way in which signals are recorded on the tape; and the shape of the lowercase Greek letter beta (β) resembles the course of the tape through the transport. The suffix \"-max\", from the word \"maximum\", was added to suggest greatness.\nIn 1977, Sony issued the first long-play Betamax VCR, the SL-8200. This VCR had two recording speeds: normal, and the newer half speed. This provided two hours' recording on\nthe L-500 Beta videocassette. The SL-8200 was to compete against the VHS VCRs, which allowed up to 4, and later 6 and 8, hours of recording on one cassette.\n\nSanyo marketed a version as \"Betacord\", which also was casually called \"Beta\". In addition to Sony and Sanyo, Beta-format video recorders were manufactured and sold by Toshiba, Pioneer, Murphy, Aiwa, and NEC. The Zenith Electronics Corporation and WEGA Corporations contracted with Sony to produce VCRs for their product lines. The department stores Sears (in the United States and Canada) and Quelle (in Germany) sold Beta-format VCRs under their house brands, as did the RadioShack chain of electronic stores. Betamax and VHS competed in a fierce format war, which saw VHS win in most markets.\n\nOne other major consequence of the Betamax technology's introduction to the U.S. was the lawsuit \"Sony Corp. v. Universal City Studios\" (1984, the \"Betamax case\"), with the U.S. Supreme Court determining home videotaping to be legal in the United States, wherein home videotape cassette recorders were a legal technology since they had substantial noninfringing uses. This precedent was later invoked in \"MGM v. Grokster\" (2005), where the high court agreed that the same \"substantial noninfringing uses\" standard applies to authors and vendors of peer-to-peer file sharing software (notably excepting those who \"actively induce\" copyright infringement through \"purposeful, culpable expression and conduct\").\n\nFor the professional and broadcast video industry, Sony derived Betacam from Betamax. Released in 1982, Betacam became the most widely used videotape format in ENG (electronic news gathering), replacing the wide U-matic tape format. Betacam and Betamax are similar in some ways: they use the same videocassette shape, use the same oxide tape formulation with the same coercivity, and record linear audio tracks in the same location of the tape. But in the key area of video recording, Betacam and Betamax are completely different. (For details, see the Betacam article.)\n\nSony also offered a range of industrial Betamax products, a Beta I-only format for industrial and institutional users. These were aimed at the same market as U-Matic equipment, but were cheaper and smaller. The arrival of Betacam reduced the demand for both industrial Beta and U-Matic equipment.\nBetamax also had a significant part to play in the music recording industry, when Sony introduced its PCM (Pulse Code Modulation) digital recording system as an encoding box/PCM adaptor that connected to a Betamax recorder. The Sony PCM-F1 adaptor was sold with a companion Betamax VCR SL-2000 as a portable digital audio recording system. Many recording engineers used this system in the 1980s and 1990s to make their first digital master recordings.\n\nInitially, Sony was able to tout several Betamax-only features, such as BetaScan—a high speed picture search in either direction—and BetaSkipScan, a technique that allowed the operator to see where he was on the tape by pressing the FF key (or REW, if in that mode): the transport would switch into the BetaScan mode until the key was released. This feature is discussed in more detail on Peep Search. Sony believed that the M-Load transports used by VHS machines made copying these trick modes impossible. BetaSkipScan (Peep Search) is now available on miniature M-load formats, but even Sony was unable to fully replicate this on VHS. BetaScan was originally called \"Videola\" until the company that made the Moviola threatened legal action.\n\nSony would also sell a BetaPak, a small deck designed to be used with a camera. Concerned with the need for several pieces and cables to connect them, an integrated camera/recorder was designed, which Sony dubbed a \"Camcorder\"; the result was Betamovie. Betamovie used the standard-size cassette, but with a modified transport. The tape was wrapped 300° around a smaller, -diameter head drum, with a single dual-azimuth head to write the video tracks. For playback, the tape would be inserted into a Beta-format deck. Due to the different geometry and writing techniques employed, playback within the camcorder was not feasible. SuperBeta and industrial Betamovie camcorders would also be sold by Sony.\n\nIn June 1983, Sony introduced high fidelity audio to videotape as Beta Hi-Fi. For NTSC, Beta HiFi worked by placing a pair of FM carriers between the chroma (C) and luminance (Y) carriers, a process known as frequency multiplexing. Each head had a specific pair of carriers; in total, four individual channels were employed. Head A recorded its hi-fi carriers at 1.38(L) and 1.68(R) MHz, and the B head employed 1.53 and 1.83 MHz. The result was audio with an 80 dB dynamic range, with less than 0.005% wow and flutter.\n\nPrior to the introduction of Beta Hi-Fi, Sony shifted the Y carrier up by 400 kHz to make room for the four FM carriers that would be needed for Beta Hi-Fi. All Beta machines incorporated this change, plus the ability to hunt for a lower frequency pre-AFM Y carrier. Sony incorporated an \"antihunt\" circuit, to stop the machine hunting for a Y carrier that wasn't there.\n\nSome Sony NTSC models were marketed as \"Hi-Fi Ready\" (with an SL-HFR prefix to the model's number instead of the usual SL or SL-HF). These Betamax decks looked like a regular Betamax model, except for a special 28-pin connector on the rear. If the user desired a Beta Hi-Fi model but lacked the funds at the time, he could purchase an \"SL-HFRxx\" and at a later date purchase the separate Hi-Fi Processor. Sony offered two outboard Beta Hi-Fi processors, the HFP-100 and HFP-200. They were identical except that the HFP-200 was capable of multi-channel TV sound, with the word \"stereocast\" printed after the Beta Hi-Fi logo. This was possible because unlike a VHS Hi-Fi deck, an NTSC Betamax didn't need an extra pair of heads. The HFP-x00 would generate the needed carriers which would be recorded by the attached deck, and during playback the AFM carriers would be passed to the HFP-x00. They also had a small \"fine tracking\" control on the rear panel for difficult tapes.\n\nFor PAL, however, the bandwidth between the chroma and luminance carriers was not sufficient to allow additional FM carriers, so depth multiplexing was employed, wherein the audio track would be recorded in the same way that the video track was. The lower-frequency audio track was written first by a dedicated head, and the video track recorded on top by the video head. The head disk had an extra pair of audio-only heads with a different azimuth, positioned slightly ahead of the regular video heads, for this purpose.\n\nSony was confident that VHS could not achieve the same audio performance feat as Beta Hi-Fi. However, to the chagrin of Sony, JVC did develop a VHS hi-fi system on the principle of depth multiplexing approximately a year after the first Beta Hi-Fi VCR, the SL-5200, was introduced by Sony. Despite initial praise as providing \"CD sound quality\", both Beta Hi-Fi and VHS HiFi suffered from \"carrier buzz\", where high frequency information bled into the audio carriers, creating momentary \"buzzing\" and other audio flaws. Both systems also used companding noise-reduction systems, which could create \"pumping\" artifacts under some conditions. Both formats also suffered from interchange problems, where tapes made on one machine did not always play back well on other machines. When this happened and if the artifacts became too distracting, users were forced to revert to the old linear soundtrack.\n\nIn early 1985, Sony would introduce a new feature, High Band or SuperBeta, by again shifting the Y carrier—this time by 800 kHz. This improved the bandwidth available to the Y sideband and increased the horizontal resolution from 240 to 290 lines on a regular-grade Betamax cassette. Since over-the-antenna and cable signals were only 300–330 lines resolution, SuperBeta could make a nearly identical copy of live television. However, the chroma resolution still remained relatively poor, limited to just under 0.4 MHz or approximately 30 lines resolution, whereas live broadcast chrominance resolution was over 100 lines. The heads were also narrowed to 29 μm to reduce crosstalk, with a narrower head gap to play back the higher carrier frequency at 5.6 MHz. Later, some models would feature further improvement, in the form of Beta-Is, a high band version of the Beta-I recording mode. There were some incompatibilities between the older Beta decks and SuperBeta, but most could play back a high band tape without major problems. SuperBeta decks had a switch to disable the SuperBeta mode for compatibility purposes. (SuperBeta was only marginally supported outside of Sony, as many licensees had already discontinued their Betamax line.)\n\nIn 1988, Sony would again push the envelope with ED Beta, or \"Extended Definition\" Betamax, capable of up to 500 lines of resolution, that equaled DVD quality (480 typical). In order to store the ~6.5 MHz-wide luma signal, with the peak frequency at 9.3 MHz, Sony used a metal formulation tape borrowed from the Betacam SP format (branded \"ED-Metal\") and incorporated some improvements to the transport to reduce mechanically induced aberrations in the picture. Beta ED also featured a luminance carrier deviation of 2.5 MHz, as opposed to the 1.2 MHz used in SuperBeta, improving contrast with reduced luminance noise.\n\nSony introduced two ED decks and a camcorder in the late 1980s. The top end EDV-9500 (EDV-9300 in Canada) deck was a very capable editing deck, rivaling much more expensive U-Matic set-ups for its accuracy and features, but did not have commercial success due to lack of timecode and other pro features. Sony did market Beta ED to \"semiprofessional\" users, or \"prosumers\". One complaint about the EDC-55 ED CAM was that it needed a lot of light (at least 25 lux), due to the use of two CCDs instead of the typical single-CCD imaging device. The Beta ED lineup only recorded in BII/BIII modes, with the ability to play back BI/BIs.\n\nDespite the sharp decline in sales of Betamax recorders in the late 1980s and subsequent halt in production of new recorders by Sony in 2002, Betamax, SuperBetamax and EDBeta are still being used by a small number of people. Even though Sony stopped making new cassettes in 2016, new cassettes are still available for purchase at online shops and used recorders are often found at flea markets, thrift stores or on Internet auction sites. Early format BetaCam cassettes—which are physically based on the Betamax cassette—continue to be available for use in the professional media.\n\nBelow is a list of modern, digital-style resolutions (and traditional analog \"TV lines per picture height\" measurements) for various media. The list only includes popular formats. Note that listed resolution applies to luminance only, with chroma resolution usually halved in each dimension for digital formats, and significantly lower for analog formats.\n\nEquivalent pixel resolutions are calculated from analog line resolution numbers:\n\nThe somewhat unintuitive analog resolution loss for 16:9 DVD compared to 4:3 DVD arises from the fact that analog resolution unit is \"lines per picture height\". When picture height is kept the same, the same 720 pixels are spread to a wider area in 16:9, hence lower horizontal resolution per picture height.\n\nBoth NTSC and PAL/SECAM Betamax cassettes are physically identical (although the signals recorded on the tape are incompatible). However, as tape speeds differ between NTSC and PAL/SECAM, the playing time for any given cassette will vary accordingly between the systems. Other unusual lengths were produced from time to time, such as L-410.\n\n\nTwo-piece camera/VCR systems rapidly displaced Super 8 mm film as the medium of choice for shooting home movies and amateur films. These units included a portable VCR, which the videographer would carry by a shoulder strap, and a separate camera, which was connected to the VCR by a special cable. At this point, Beta had several advantages over VHS systems. The smaller Beta cassette made for smaller and lighter VCRs.\n\nHowever, consumers wanted a one-piece solution. The first one-piece consumer camcorder, the Betamovie, came from Sony. A major requirement for a one-piece camcorder was miniaturizing the recording head drum, and Sony's solution to this involved a nonstandard video signal which would become standard only when played back on full-sized VCRs. A side effect of this was that Beta camcorders were record-only: consumers saw this as a major limitation.\n\nVHS manufacturers found a better solution to drum miniaturization (it involved four heads doing the work of two). Because it used standard video signals, VHS camcorders could review footage in the camcorder and copy to another VCR for editing. This shifted the home movie advantage dramatically away from Beta, and was a primary reason for the loss of Beta market share: owners of Beta VCRs found that a VHS camcorder would allow them to copy and edit footage to their Beta deck – something that Betamovie could not do. If rental movies were not available in Beta, they could rent them in VHS and use their camcorder to play them. Owners of VHS VCRs could also choose a variant camcorder format called VHS-C. This used a miniaturized cassette to make a camcorder smaller and lighter than any Betamovie.\n\nSony could not duplicate the functionality of VHS-C camcorders, and seeing the rapid loss of market share, eventually introduced the Video8 format. Their hope was that Video8 could replace both Beta and VHS for all uses. For more information, see the article on camcorders.\n\nOn November 10, 2015, Sony announced that it would no longer be producing Betamax video cassettes. Production and sales ended March 2016 after nearly 41 years of continuous production. Third party manufacturers continue to make new cassettes. While these cassettes are designed for use with the Betacam format, the cassettes are interchangeable with traditional Betamax systems.\n\nThe VHS format's defeat of the Betamax format became a classic marketing case study. Sony's attempt to dictate an industry standard backfired when JVC made the tactical decision to forgo Sony's offer of Betamax in favor of developing its own technology. JVC felt that accepting Sony's offer would yield results similar to the U-Matic deal, with Sony dominating.\n\nBy 1980, JVC's VHS format controlled 60% of the North American market. The large economy of scale allowed VHS units to be introduced to the European market at a far lower cost than the rarer Betamax units. In the United Kingdom, Betamax held a 25% market share in 1981, but by 1986, it was down to 7.5% and continued to decline further. By 1984, 40 companies made VHS format equipment in comparison with Beta's 12. Sony finally conceded defeat in 1988 when it, too, began producing VHS recorders (early models were made by Hitachi), though it still continued to produce Betamax recorders until 2002.\n\nIn Japan, Betamax had more success and eventually evolved into Extended Definition Betamax, with 500+ lines of resolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22253786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22253786", "title": "Bonville–Courtenay feud", "text": "Bonville–Courtenay feud\n\nThe Bonville–Courtenay feud of 1455 engendered a series of raids, sieges, and attacks between two major Devon families, the Courtenays and the Bonvilles, in south west England, in the mid-fifteenth century. One of many such aristocratic feuds of the time, it became entwined with national politics due to the political weight of the protagonists. The Courtenay earls of Devon were the traditional powerbrokers in the region, but by this time a local baronial family, the Bonvilles, had become more powerful and rivalled the Courtenays for royal patronage. Eventually this rivalry spilled over into physical violence, including social disorder, murder and siege.\n\nThe Bonville-Courtenay feud is often given as an example of the degree to which law and order and respect for the king had broken down in the provinces. As a result, modern historians have often considered it a cause of the later Wars of the Roses; and indeed, the course of the feud often closely followed the sectarian politics of the day. The feud is perhaps most well known for culminating in an armed encounter at Clyst (called the fight, or sometimes the battle, of Clyst), near Exeter, which resulted in loss of life.\n\nThe events at Clyst resulted in government intervention in the politics of the west country. This was unusual, as the government did not have a good track-record of settling local disputes among the nobility. However, it is likely that this was done for reasons of higher politics; William Bonville was by 1455 a Yorkist, and Richard, Duke of York had been made Lord Protector. Although in the short term it resulted in Thomas de Courtenay, Earl of Devon's incarceration, the Bonville–Courtenay feud did not come to an effective end until the protagonists were all killed in the early years of the civil wars.\n\nThe mid-fifteenth century suffered greatly from the private feuds of the nobility, and the Wars of the Roses in general. Devonshire, whilst experiencing none of the pitched battles, was still ravaged by a private feud. This was between Thomas Courtenay, Earl of Devon, whose family had been earls of that county since 1335 and William Bonville, 1st Baron Bonville. Their feud became inextricably tied to the national political scene, but originated in regional Devon society. In 2003, historian Martin Cherry agreed that the south west was to a great degree lawless at this time. However, he suggested that the Bonville-Courtenay feud, whilst being the best-known, is not the sole example of political upheaval in the region, which was common throughout the century.\n\nIn 1966, historian R. L. Storey suggested that the civil wars which racked England for much of the fifteenth century had their origins in the breakdown of both the king's ability to govern, and law and order in the localities, and gave the Courtenay-Bonville feud as one such example. The king, Henry VI, had been incapacitated by mental illness in August 1453. This led to the recall to court of the recalcitrant Richard, Duke of York, his closest adult relative and a potential claimant to the throne. York had been banished to his estates after a failed rebellion in 1452. The following year, with the king still incapacitated, York was appointed Lord Protector and First Councillor of the realm, for the duration of the king's illness. He used this position to move against his chief rival, the hitherto dominant Edmund Beaufort, Duke of Somerset, who was imprisoned. By Christmas of 1454, King Henry had recovered from his illness, removing the basis for York's authority. Henry and a select council of nobles decided to hold a great council at Leicester. York and his closest allies, his brother-in-law Richard Neville, Earl of Salisbury and Salisbury's son Richard, Earl of Warwick, anticipated that charges might be brought against them at this assembly. They gathered an armed retinue and marched to stop the royal party from reaching Leicester, intercepting them at St Albans. Both militarily and politically it was a complete victory for York and the Nevilles. On 22 May 1455, at the First Battle of St Albans they captured the king and retook their places in government, while York's and the Nevilles' rivals, the Duke of Somerset, the Earl of Northumberland, and Lord Clifford were killed. Among the royalists wounded were the Duke of Buckingham and Somerset's son the Earl of Dorset, the Earl of Devon, and the king's half-brother Jasper Tudor, Earl of Pembroke. York was appointed Protector of England, for the second time, by parliament a few months later.\n\nProfessor Ralph A. Griffiths places the fault for the feud between the Courtenays and Bonvilles firmly in the lap of King Henry VI, through whose \"thoughtless liberality and government carelessness ... personal jealousies in the west country had been exacerbated.\" However, more recently, Martin Cherry warned against seeing the feud as the same as the later civil wars writ small; they were, he says, \"qualitatively\" different, resulting in the ultimate disintegration of the earl's affinity, rather than symptomatic of his violence. Michael Hicks has pointed out that although there were many other regional feuds at this time (including the Lisle-Berkeley dispute, also waged in the west country), they did not have the same causes, or were necessarily caused by weak government at all: for instance, whereas the Bonville–Courtenay feud had territorial domination at its root, others, such as the Berkeley–Lisle dispute, were begun over contested inheritances. Cherry has also suggested that the main cause of the Bonville–Courtenay dispute was the desperation of the earl to \"gain access to crown patronage for himself and his clients\" – something he was gradually failing to do in the face of competition.\n\nAs noted, the feud between the Bonvilles and Courtenays was rooted in local Devonshire politics. The rivalry between them stemmed from the fact that they were major estate holders in the south west, and further, because both had claims to crown patronage. For example, William Bonville had fought in the Hundred Years' War for both Henry VI and his father, Henry V, whilst Devon through his wife was the king's cousin. Although the earl was both the greatest landowner and the highest ranking nobleman in the county, he had in recent years seen members of the lesser gentry and nobility (such as William Bonville) receive advancement in his stead. Bonville had also furthered his own advancement by successively marrying into the lower nobility (a daughter of the Lord Grey of Ruthin) and then to an aunt of the Earl of Devon himself. The main royal office in the area – and therefore the main source of royal patronage – was the stewardship of the highly profitable Duchy of Cornwall. Both men had held the office alternately over recent years. Tensions between the two have been traced back to 1437, when the stewardship was taken from Courtenay and granted to William Bonville. Courtenay did receive a royal grant of £100 \"per annum\" life annuity at this time. But, says Griffiths, this is unlikely to have made up for loss of the main royal office in the county. Certainly, within two years, severe attacks were being launched on Bonville's property, and by 1440, relations between the two were, Griffiths says, \"at breaking point.\" This tension became apparent in open manifestations of military strength; manifestations worrying enough to government to lead to them both being summoned before council. In 1441 the stewardship was returned to the Earl of Devon, although Radford questions whether Bonville actually ever physically surrendered the office, as in November that year an arbitration took place between them to \"end all [of their] differences.\"\n\nThere followed a four-year period of peace; but this could simply be accounted for by the fact that Bonville spent that time in service in Gascony, which, it has been suggested, may have been one of the conditions of the arbitration. It was, though, only a temporary peace for the region as by 1449 the earl besieged Bonville (now promoted to the baronage in recognition of his success in France) in his castle of Taunton for a year. Courtenay supported Richard, Duke of York in his 1452 rebellion at Dartford, even joining him in the field against the king. This treason resulted in him forfeiting his royal offices in the south west, including not only the stewardship of the duchy – which was finally granted to Bonville for life – but Lydford Castle, the Forest of Dartmoor, and the Water of Exe. Hence, as his ally the duke was eclipsed in government, Courtenay was eclipsed by Bonville in the south west. Courtenay had – in imitation of his ally – waged a local war against Bonville and Bonville's ally, the Earl of Wiltshire, between 1451–5. Raising an army of 5–6,000 men, he forced Wiltshire to desert his manor of Lackham, and then returned to the siege of Taunton. The siege was only lifted when the Duke of York arrived unannounced three days later, and took the castle into his own hands, forcing a peace upon the two parties.\n\nBonville had, then, by April 1455, received much royal favour, including all the offices the earl had lost, as well as the constableship of Exeter Castle. He was – as one historian has called him – \"the King's lieutenant in the west.\" The Earl of Devon had already reacted against this hegemony during the Duke of York's first protectorate (1454–5) and joined the royal council. However, it appears that even the council itself did not trust him to keep the King's peace, as they placed him under a bond of £1,000 to do so. This he had disregarded, and commenced another campaign against Bonville. This time, the Earl of Devon was accompanied by his sons, and, bringing a force of men into Exeter in April 1455, he attempted to ambush Bonville. This resulted in further government-imposed undertakings of good behaviour between the two parties. As the government was now headed by Courtenay's old ally, the Duke of York, it is likely that it was now that the earl decided to reject his alliance with York and give his support to the crown. He fought (and was wounded) at St Albans on 22 May that year, on the side of the king. Bonville, meanwhile, through his wife, was related to the Harrington family of Hornby, Lancashire, who had close links to the Nevilles – his father-in-law was Thomas Harrington, a feoffee and retainer to the Earl of Salisbury. Bonville's new-found Yorkist sympathies seem to have driven the Earl of Devon to even greater violence in the county.\n\nFrom October 1455, Devon and his sons were committing acts of social disorder, seemingly intending to disrupt the administrative machinery of the county (of which Bonville, of course, was a part), for instance by preventing the local justices of the peace from holding quarterly sessions by force; they then proceeded to raise a small army at Tiverton under the leadership of Devon's eldest son, Thomas Courtenay. It was this force that was to be guilty of what R. L. Storey has called \"the most notorious private crime of the century,\" due not only to the violence involved but the fact that it was \"so obviously premeditated.\" This force made its way to Upcott on 23 October 1455, the home of Nicholas Radford, a close associate and legal advisor to Bonville, and a respected member of the community who had previously been recorder of the city of Exeter and member of parliament. Storey has suggested that being an experienced lawyer, he was most probably targeted by Devon and his sons for the very reason that he had aided Bonville's escape from Devon's litigation in the past; and in January 1455 he had enfeoffed Bonville (and others) for land valued at £400.\n\nThomas Courtenay's force attacked Radford's manor that night; they set fire to the wall and gates to draw him out. On their word, including Courtenay's solemn promise to do him no harm if he would speak with them, Radford let them in – although apparently he commented upon their large number. Whilst Radford and Devon's son drank wine, the latter's followers \"ransacked\" Radford's house, stealing goods up to the value of 1,000 marks, including all his horses and the sheets off his invalid wife's bed. On a pretext of meeting his father the earl, Courtenay persuaded Radford to accompany him when his force withdrew; however, he abandoned Radford on the road a short distance from the house, and six of Courtenay's men killed him. Devon subsequently dispatched a force to the chapel where Radford's body was; they performed, says Storey, a \"mock inquest, one of them acting as coroner and others, with assumed names, as jurors. They brought in a verdict of suicide.\" They then forced Radford's servants to convey his corpse as if he had been a heretic to the graveyard, where it was deposited unceremoniously into an open grave; the stones laid ready to build his memorial were then dropped on the body, crushing it. By making recognition of the body impossible, this prevented an official inquest being held into Radford's death.\n\nThe murder of Nicholas Radford, says R. L. Storey, was only \"the curtain raiser\" for further military activities. Devon proceeded to raise a force and occupy Exeter – \"as if they were the city's lawful garrison\" – until just before Christmas, seizing the keys of the city; various houses in the city belonging to Bonville and his supporters were ransacked, and members of the Cathedral were arrested and forced to buy their freedom. In one case, a man was bodily removed from the choir whilst celebrating Mass. Both Bonville and Courtenay had 'extensive relations' with the Cathedral, dating back to the 1430s, but the Courtenays had greatly contributed to its expansion in the previous century. Their actions in 1455 were probably inspired by the fact that Radford had entrusted much of his wealth to the safe-keeping of the church, and Devon saw an opportunity to enrich himself; possibly, says Storey, he was forced to take such action to be able to pay his men. Martin Cherry has pointed to the lack of references to any martial expenses on the earl's behalf in the extant accounts, as indicating that his campaign effectively paid for itself. During the same period, Devon, \"in warlike fashion and like an insurrection\" also besieged Powderham Castle, which belonged to his distant cousin and Bonville ally, Sir Philip Courtenay; the latter resisted, and Bonville came to his assistance. Prior to doing this, however, he raided the Earl of Devon's house at Colcombe Castle and proceeded to ransack it. Bonville attempted to lift the siege at Powderham on 19 November, but was repulsed by Devon, and lost two men in the fight, which may have involved up to a thousand men. Meanwhile, Devon continued his attempts to persuade the city of Exeter to raise a force on his behalf – which they refused to do – before leaving Exeter on 15 December, as Bonville approached, on his way to Powderham. The two forces met at Clyst, just south west of Exeter.\n\nDevon marched from Exeter to encounter Bonville at Clyst Heath; there are very few extant sources for the event, and only one chronicler provides any details, saying he \"departed out of the city with his people into the field of Clyst, and there bickered and fought with the Lord Bonville and put them to flight, and so returned again that night into the city.\" Many bones were discovered when the site was excavated in 1800, although some, Storey points out, must belong to those killed in the 1549 engagement on the same site. Although difficult to assess the extent to which the engagement can be described as a battle (one chronicler estimated the dead at twelve men) it does appear to have been decisive in Devon's favour. The earl returned to Exeter, where the mayor had \"tactfully\" laid on a celebration. Hannes Kleineke has described the mayor's decision to illuminate the city walls on the earl's return as \"pragmatic\", whilst Cherry explains the mayor's behaviour as being due to the fact that the earl, \"in his peculiar manner, [had behaved] punctiliously\" to the mayor. The earl subsequently sent a sortie led by Thomas Carrew to attack Bonville's manor at Shute where they faced no resistance and pillaged freely, stealing Bonville's cattle, furnishings, and food. The weeks preceding the battle had been accompanied by what has been called \"exchange[s] of formal declarations of war disguised in the chivalric mode of challenges to a duel.\" Michael Hicks has suggested that, in spite of the earl's clear superiority in numbers, it was Bonville who \"goaded the earl into a fair fight,\" and that \"in the spirit of chivalry\" the confrontation at Clyst was his fault. Cherry too has suggested that Bonville and Courtenay of Powderham deliberately attempted to recruit members of the earl's historical tenantry, further poisoning relations, and also that, although doubtless the earl has deserved the 'universally bad press' he has received from modern historians, he was still \"reluctant to go to war,\" and that he did so \"only after all other methods of achieving his aims ... had failed.\"\n\nHowever decisive the Earl of Devon's victory had been, it had also drawn the attention of the government. This was still under the control of Bonville's allies, York, Salisbury, and Warwick, but had up until that point the Yorkists had failed to intervene in this local feud. The feud has been described as an example of local activities influencing parliament itself, and Griffiths said it was used as \"a pretext for demanding York's appointment as protector.\" When parliament reassembled on 12 November it was presented with reports that Devon was leading an army of about 4,000 men and including 400 cavalry to London. The king was still incapacitated. Unable to manage the situation; the Duke of York used the immediate necessity for intervention as a mechanism for being formally appointed Protector. He did not immediately hasten to the south west to punish the Earl of Devon, though. The earl was merely dismissed from his role on the commission of the peace in early December. Soon after, the local gentry were ordered to be ready to assist York. The duke did not set out until news was received of the Clyst confrontation. One chronicler states that following his defeat, Bonville \"fled, and came to Grenewiche to the kyng, and the kyng sent him agayne to the lord protectour;\" although it is also possible that he was committed to the Fleet Prison for a short time. When finally York left for the south west, he summoned the Earl of Devon to Shaftesbury where the earl was arrested and sent to the Tower of London.\n\nThe Earl of Devon remained imprisoned for only a few months. It is possible that an attempt was made to bring him to trial in February, but if so, it was probably – in Storey's words – \"countermanded.\" This could have been, he suggests, indicative of York's \"waning\" position, as the protectorate was soon to come to an end: Cherry has said that the king's resumption of personal power in February 1456 must have come as \"a considerable relief\" to the earl. He seems to have taken the Yorkists' eclipse as a further opportunity to continue the feud, which provoked governmental admonishment in March, when his son John Courtenay, with 500 armed men, again prevented the Exeter justices of the peace from sitting, and evicted them. Commissions of \"oyer and terminer\" were issued in August, being led by Bonville's ally the Earl of Wiltshire. Although Bonville presented a long list of offences committed by Devon to the council (whilst mitigating his own involvement), the crown \"was obviously unimpressed\" by this, and eventually not only restored Devon to commission of the peace (12 September 1456) but also pardoned him and his sons for any involvement in the murder of Radford, eventually even appointing him to the lucrative office of keeper of the forest and park of Clarendon. The region subsequently remained quiet; Bonville was of advanced age and Devon was possibly unwell, as he died in Abingdon within eighteen months. His will was executed by some of the most important men on the Queen's council.\n\nThe region took no active part in the ensuing civil wars until the Battle of Tewkesbury in 1471, but both parties to the feud were killed in the civil wars over the next few years. The new Earl of Devon, who had killed Radford, was a thorough supporter of the Lancastrian regime. After the Yorkist victory at the Battle of Northampton in June 1460, he took his troops northwards to Margaret of Anjou in York, where, in April 1461, he was executed by the new king, Edward IV after the Battle of Towton. Bonville's son and grandson had been killed with the Duke of York and the Earl of Salisbury at the Battle of Wakefield in December 1460, and Bonville himself, captured after the Second Battle of St Albans was summarily beheaded – probably, so the chroniclers tell us, after a mock trial directly instigated by the Earl of Devon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1397838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1397838", "title": "Cartesian Other", "text": "Cartesian Other\n\nIn philosophy, the Cartesian Other, part of a thought experiment, is any other than the mind of the individual thinking about the experiment. The Other includes the individual's own body. According to the philosopher Descartes, there is a divide intrinsic to consciousness, such that you cannot ever bridge the space between your own consciousness and that of another.\n\nThis \"other\" is in essence theoretical, since one cannot ever be empirically shown such an \"other.\"\n\nPut differently, Descartes concluded \"cogito ergo sum\", \"I think, therefore I am,\" that is, that the presence of a self of which to speak (an \"I\") proves its existence to oneself; however, according to his Wax Argument, one could never similarly demonstrate the existence of the \"other.\"\n"}
{"id": "34105752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34105752", "title": "Corporate donations", "text": "Corporate donations\n\nThe term corporate donation refers to any financial contribution made by a corporation to another organization that furthers the contributor's own objectives. Two major kinds of such donations deserve specific consideration, charitable as well as political donations.\n\nCorporations give to charitable causes, either because of the personal convictions of influential leaders within the corporation, or more commonly to help establish the public perception that the corporation is a good corporate citizen.\n\nCorporate charitable giving can be divided into direct cash and non-cash contributions. Direct cash giving comes from corporate headquarters, regional offices, or company sponsored foundations. Examples of direct cash contributions include:\n\nNon-cash contributions are contributions of equipment, supplies or time, and do not include cash contributions. Examples of non-cash contributions include:\n\nNon-cash contributions can also be interpreted through an organization's policy to allow employees paid time off when performing volunteer work.\n\nTotal corporate cash donations in 2010 are estimated to be $15.29 billion in the United States. Of that, ~80%-85% came from corporate grants and sponsorship of fundraising events while ~15%-20% or $2–$3 billion came from corporate matching gifts and volunteer grants.\n\nThere is a wide range of models of political finance in democracies; political donations by individuals and organizations are one of many sources of funding.\n\nIn the US, corporations are prohibited from making expenditures to influence federal elections. Similar restrictions exist in many state elections and have been upheld by the US Supreme Court.\n\nCorporations may make donations to Political Action Committees (PACs); PACs generally have strict limits on their ability to advocate on behalf of specific parties or candidates, or even to coordinate their activities with political campaigns. PACs are subject to disclosure requirements at the federal and state levels. The ability of corporations to engage in such independent expenditures has been subject to intense debate after the US Supreme Court struck down, on free-speech grounds, limits in Citizens United v. FEC, a case involving the creation of a film critical of Hillary Clinton by a nonprofit corporation.\n\nDonations are closely tracked by a number of organizations, including the Center for Responsive Politics (opensecrets.org). Such organizations often group donations under specific corporations, but such donations refer to contributions from individuals and PACs associated with the corporation, not \"corporate donations\".\n\nCorporate donations to PACs and Super PACs are a First Amendment issue and subject to intense political debate in the US. Proponents of tighter regulations of political donations by corporations argue that corporate donations corrupt democracy. Other research suggests that post-election lobbying and access to politicians, rather than campaign contributions, shapes and reinforces policy decision by politicians\n\nIn Germany, both individuals and corporations may make unlimited contributions to political parties. These contributions are partially tax exempt and partially matched by government funds; contributions of more than 10000 Euros are reportable.\n\nDuring the 2013 election cycle in Germany, corporations and other organizations made direct contributions to German political parties in the amount of at least 24.2 million Euros. Due to public subsidies of political parties and membership dues, such donations in Germany generally represent about 15% of the total revenue of major political parties; see Party finance in Germany.\n\nAustralia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and Turkey have no limits on either contributions for parliamentary elections or on spending on such elections; in Belgium, Canada, Chile, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Japan, South Korea, Poland, and Slovenia, there are limits on both contributions and spending; Austria, Hungary, Italy, New Zealand, Slovakia, the United Kingdom have no limits on contributions but do have limits on spending; Finland and the United States have limits on contributions but not on spending.\n\n\nThe literature given here refers to political donations by corporate donors only:\n\n"}
{"id": "165264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165264", "title": "Culture theory", "text": "Culture theory\n\nCulture theory is the branch of comparative anthropology and semiotics (not to be confused with cultural sociology or cultural studies) that seeks to define the heuristic concept of culture in operational and/or scientific terms.\n\nIn the 19th century, \"culture\" was used by some to refer to a wide array of human activities, and by some others as a synonym for \"civilization\". In the 20th century, anthropologists began theorizing about culture as an object of scientific analysis. Some used it to distinguish human adaptive strategies from the largely instinctive adaptive strategies of animals, including the adaptive strategies of other primates and non-human hominids, whereas others used it to refer to symbolic representations and expressions of human experience, with no direct adaptive value. Both groups understood culture as being definitive of human nature.\n\nAccording to many theories that have gained wide acceptance among anthropologists, culture exhibits the way that humans interpret their biology and their environment. According to this point of view, culture becomes such an integral part of human existence that it \"is\" the human environment, and most cultural change can be attributed to human adaptation to historical events. Moreover, given that culture is seen as the primary adaptive mechanism of humans and takes place much faster than human biological evolution, most cultural change can be viewed as culture adapting to itself.\n\nAlthough most anthropologists try to define culture in such a way that it separates human beings from other animals, many human traits are similar to those of other animals, particularly the traits of other primates. For example, chimpanzees have big brains, but human brains are bigger. Similarly, bonobos exhibit complex sexual behaviour, but human beings exhibit much more complex sexual behaviours. As such, anthropologists often debate whether human behaviour is different from animal behaviour in degree rather than in kind; they must also find ways to distinguish cultural behaviour from sociological behaviour and psychological behavior.\n\nAcceleration and amplification of these various aspects of culture change have been explored by complexity economist, W. Brian Arthur. In his book, \"The Nature of Technology\", Arthur attempts to articulate a theory of change that considers that existing technologies (or material culture) are combined in unique ways that lead to novel new technologies. Behind that novel combination is a purposeful effort arising in human motivation. This articulation would suggest that we are just beginning to understand what might be required for a more robust theory of culture and culture change, one that brings coherence across many disciplines and reflects an integrating elegance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39486735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39486735", "title": "Defensive pessimism", "text": "Defensive pessimism\n\nDefensive pessimism is a cognitive strategy identified by Nancy Cantor and her students in the mid-1980s. Individuals use defensive pessimism as a strategy to prepare for anxiety-provoking events or performances. When implementing defensive pessimism, individuals set low expectations for their performance, regardless of how well they have done in the past. Defensive pessimists then think through specific negative events and setbacks that could adversely influence their goal pursuits. By envisioning possible negative outcomes, defensive pessimists can take action to avoid or prepare for them. Using this strategy, defensive pessimists can advantageously harness anxiety that might otherwise harm their performance.\n\nDefensive pessimism is utilized in a variety of domains, and public speaking provides a good example of the process involved in this strategy. Defensive pessimists could alleviate their anxiety over public speaking by imagining possible obstacles such as forgetting the speech, being thirsty, or staining their shirts before the event. Because defensive pessimists have thought of these problems, they can appropriately prepare to face the challenges ahead. The speaker could, for instance, create note cards with cues about the speech, place a cup of water on the podium to alleviate thirst, and bring a bleach pen to remove shirt stains. These preventative actions both reduce anxiety and promote superior performance.\n\nThough defensive pessimists are less satisfied with their performances and rate themselves higher in \"need for improvement,\" they do not actually perform worse than people with a more optimistic strategy. Norem and Cantor (1986) investigated whether encouraging defensive pessimists, and thereby interfering with their typical negative thinking, would result in worse performances. Participants in the study were in either encouragement or non-encouragement scenarios as they prepared to complete anagram and puzzle tasks. In the encouragement condition, the defensive pessimists were told that, based on their GPA, they should expect to do well. Defensive pessimists performed worse when encouraged than the defensive pessimists whose strategy was not manipulated. Defensive pessimism is an adaptive strategy for those who struggle with anxiety: their performance decreases if they are unable to appropriately manage and counteract their anxiety.\n\nPrefactual (i.e., \"before the fact\") thinking is an essential component of defensive pessimism. Synonymous with anticipation, it denotes a cognitive strategy in which people imagine possible outcomes of a future scenario. The term prefactual was specifically coined by Lawrence J. Sanna, in 1998, to denote those activities that speculate on possible future outcomes, given the present, and ask \"What will be the outcome if event E occurs?\"\n\nThe imagined outcomes are either positive/desirable, negative/undesirable, or neutral. Prefactual thinking can be advantageous because it allows the individual to prepare for possible outcomes of a scenario.\n\nFor defensive pessimists, prefactual thinking offers the primary and critical method to alleviate anxiety. Usually, this prefactual thinking is paired with a pessimistic outlook, resulting in negative/undesirable imagined scenarios. With regard to the earlier example, the public speaking defensive pessimist anticipates forgetting the speech or becoming thirsty as opposed to giving an amazing speech and receiving a standing ovation.\n\nAs defensive pessimism is motivated by a need to manage anxiety, it is unsurprisingly also correlated with trait anxiety and neuroticism. Negative mood states promote defensive pessimists' goal attainment strategy by facilitating the generation of potential setbacks and negative outcomes that could arise during goal pursuit, which can then be anticipated and prevented. When defensive pessimists are encouraged into positive or even just neutral mood states, they perform worse on experimental tasks than when in a negative mood state. They are more anxious because they are prevented from properly implementing their preferred cognitive strategy for goal attainment.\n\nDefensive pessimism is generally related to lower self-esteem since the strategy involves self-criticism, pessimism, and discounting previous successful performances. Indeed, Norem and Burdzovic Andreas (2006) found that, compared to optimists, defensive pessimists had lower self-esteem entering college. At the end of four years of college, however, the self-esteem of the defensive pessimists had increased to nearly equal levels as optimists. The self-esteem of optimists had not changed, and the self-esteem of pessimists who did not employ defensive pessimism had fallen slightly by the end of college. While defensive pessimism may have implications for self-esteem, it appears that these effects lessen over time.\n\nUnlike pessimism, defensive pessimism is not an internal, global, and stable attribution style, but rather a cognitive strategy utilized within the context of certain goals. Pessimism involves rumination about possible negative outcomes of a situation without proactive behavior to counteract these outcomes. Defensive pessimism, on the other hand, utilizes the foresight of negative situations in order to prepare against them. The negative possible outcomes of a situation often motivate defensive pessimists to work harder for success. Since defensive pessimists are anxious, but not certain, that negative situations will arise, they still feel that they can control their outcomes. For example, a defensive pessimist would not avoid all job interviews for fear of failing one. Instead, a defensive pessimist would anticipate possible challenges that could come in an upcoming job interview – such as dress code, stubborn interviewers, and tough questions – and prepare rigorously to face them. Defensive pessimism is not a reaction to stressful events nor does it entail ruminating on events of the past, and should therefore be distinguished from pessimism as a trait or a more general negative outlook. Instead, defensive pessimists are able to stop using this strategy once it is no longer beneficial (i.e., does not serve a preparatory role).\n\nElliot and Church (2003) determined that people adopt defensive pessimism or self-handicapping strategies for the same reason: to deal with anxiety-provoking situations. Self-handicapping is a cognitive strategy in which people construct obstacles to their own success to keep failure from damaging their self-esteem. The difference between self-handicapping and defensive pessimism lies in the motivation behind the strategies. Beyond managing anxiety, defensive pessimism is further motivated by a desire for high achievement. Self-handicappers, however, feel no such need. Elliot and Church found that the self-handicapping strategy undermined goal achievement while defensive pessimism aided achievement. People who self-handicapped were high in avoidance motivation and low in approach motivation. They wanted to avoid anxiety but were not motivated to approach success. Defensive pessimists, on the other hand, were motivated to approach success and goal attainment while simultaneously avoiding the anxiety associated with performance. Although it was found that defensive pessimism was positively correlated with goals related to both performance-avoidance and performance-avoidance, it was not found to be a predictor of one's mastery of goals. \n\nIn research, defensive pessimism is frequently contrasted with strategic optimism, another cognitive strategy. When facing performance situations, strategic optimists feel that they will end well. Therefore, though they plan ahead, they plan only minimally because they do not have any anxiety to face. While defensive pessimists set low expectations, feel anxious, and rehearse possible negative outcomes of situations, strategic optimists set high expectations, feel calm, and do not reflect on the situation any more than absolutely necessary. Strategic optimists start out with different motivations and obstacles: unlike defensive pessimists, strategic optimists do not have any anxiety to surmount. In spite of their differences in motivation, strategic optimists and defensive pessimists have similar objective performance outcomes. For both strategic optimists and defensive pessimists, their respective cognitive strategies are adaptive and promote success.\n\n\n\nNorem, J. (2001). \"The Positive Power of Negative Thinking\". Cambridge, MA: Basic Books\n"}
{"id": "624661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=624661", "title": "Document mode", "text": "Document mode\n\nIn a wiki, document mode is the conventional mode of editing, in which the current version of the page is a coherent and self-contained whole, reflecting only the result of the last update and not any history. The page is simply the current version of the document, hence the name \"document mode\".\n\nIn document mode, maintenance of the history is left entirely to the wiki software, as opposed to thread mode, where the history of a discussion is also reflected in the current page.\n\nMediaWiki provides the even-numbered namespaces for document mode, often used for articles and other pages such as policy documents, and for each an odd-numbered namespace for discussion, in \"thread mode\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58501691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58501691", "title": "Elifba alphabet", "text": "Elifba alphabet\n\nThe Elifba alphabet (, from ) was the main writing system for the Albanian language during the time of the Ottoman Empire from 14th century to 1911. This Albanian variant of the Abjad Ottoman-Persian script was used to write the Albanian language. The last version of the \"Elifbaja shqip\" was invented by the leader of the Albanian National Awakening, Moslem scholar Rexhep Voka (1847-1917).\n\nThe Ottoman Turkish alphabet was mainly favored by Albanian Muslims, but also used by some Christians. After being especially used during the Bejte poetry, a primer for the Albanian language in Arabic script was published in 1861 in Constantinople by Mullah Daut Boriçi, the leader of the League of Prizren.\n\nDuring 1909 and 1910 there were movements by Young Turks supporters to adopt an Arabic alphabet, as they considered the Latin script to be un-Islamic. In Elbasan, Muslim clerics led a demonstration for the Arabic script, telling their congregations that using the Latin script would make them infidels. In 1911, the Young Turks dropped their opposition to the Latin script, and the Latin alphabet was invented. In order to eliminate ambiguity in the pronunciation of the Arabic script, Rexhep Voka developed a customized Arabic alphabet consisting of 44 consonants and vowels, which he published in 1911. However, it was hardly used anymore due to the Congress of Monastir. Tiranli Fazli then used this script to publish a thirty-two page grammar. Only one Albanian newspaper at the time ever appeared in Arabic script, and it lasted a brief period. Regardless of what script appeared, such material raised Albanian national consciousness.\n"}
{"id": "39078783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39078783", "title": "Fassinger's model of gay and lesbian identity development", "text": "Fassinger's model of gay and lesbian identity development\n\nFassinger's model of gay and lesbian identity development is an attempt to model gay and lesbian identity development, taking into account cultural and contextual influences. First presented by Ruth E. Fassinger in 1996 as a model of lesbian identity development, it was validated for men the following year.\n\nIn 1991, Susan R. McCarn, a colleague of Fassinger's, studied identity development among a group of thirty-eight lesbians diversifying in age, education, race, ethnicity, and occupation. The analysis of the results of this study lead to the establishment of two processes and four phases, in 1996. In 1997, Fassinger and Brett A. Miller explored a similarly diverse group of gay men, validating the theory for men.\n\nFassinger proposed two processes of identity development: Individual sexual identity relating to one's internal awareness and acceptance of self, and group membership identity relating to one's role in the gay/lesbian community. \n\nBoth processes consist of four sequential phases, in which an individual can reside in a different phase for each process:\n\nIndividuals can repeat phases as new environmental contexts occur, and development in one process can influence development in the other.\n\nFor the group membership identity process, Fassinger offers specific markers for the demonstration of each phase:\n\n"}
{"id": "34521073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34521073", "title": "Final utility", "text": "Final utility\n\nFinal Utility is the utility of a good when applied to our least desirable use of it. It is the estimated utility of the last use of a supply, i.e., the least important use of that supply. For example, if a \"use\" of a good must be given up, it will logically be the \"last\" use of the good we would choose. This is because we give up the least important of our satisfactions first—which would be the uses satisfied by the last good since we satisfy our more important needs first.\n\nFor example, if we lost a unit of a good, the \"value\" of the loss would be the value of the least important use of the good. This last good, which represents its final utility, was being applied to our least important wants. In the case of the lost good, it is replaced and the value to which we can assign the loss is not the value of the first most important use of the good, but the least important—what we call the final utility.\n\nAccording to the law of marginal utility, the value of each good in a stock of identical goods is utility of the last and most easily dispensable unit. That is why price is said to be determined by supply and demand: the price reflects the (approximate and average) value of the good, but most closely reflects the value of the last use. If there is a shortage of supply, the good will cease being applied to its least important uses. All else being equal, the price will increase and the increase in price represents, so to speak, the value we attribute to the \"new\" last use. Before, with a larger supply, the last use was of less value to us. With a smaller supply the value of the last use is necessarily more important because we always satisfy our more important wants first. Therefore, the increase in price can be seen as a reflection of the increase in value we attribute to the last use of the supply.\n\nLudwig von Mises writes:\n\n\"When face with the problem of the value to be attached to one unit of a homogeneous supply, man decides on the basis of the value of the least important use he makes of the units of the whole supply; he decides on the basis of marginal utility.\"\n\nIf a hurricane struck Florida and there was a shortage of water, everything else equal, the price of bottled water would increase. Water in Florida, before this shortage, was used for drinking water, cooking, watering plants, and bathing. With the tap off, the price of bottled water has increased to such an extent that bottled water will surely not be purchased for watering plants or bathing. That is, the increase in price reflects the increase in the value we attribute to the last use of the last unit in the supply of the good. To explain, before the hurricane, water was valued according to the fact that it would be used for bathing and watering plants. Now, with a shortage, it is valued according to its ability to quench thirst and cook food. The latter uses importance is \"approximated\" in the price of the good. The bottled water which now costs, say, $20 a bottle, is an approximation of the value attribute to drinking water, cooking water, and whatever else it might be used for at the higher price—given that previous uses are not considered due to the shortage of supply and its corollary, the increase in price. That is why it is said that a homogeneous stock of goods is valued according to its final utility—according to its last use of a stock of a good.\n\nA supply of a good will be applied to most important wants first and least important wants last. When there is a shortage, all else being equal, the price increases. The smaller supply is being used for the most important wants, but is not being used for the least important wants. In this sense, we can say the increase in price represents the increase in value which the last unit of the supply is filling. Before water cost very little and was used for washing and watering plants. Now, since there is not enough for washing and watering plants and it is instead being used exclusively to drink and cook—the value we attribute to those activities is, in a sense, communicated through the higher price. The price reflects that importance of the last use of a supply—and in this case the supply was truncated to only allow for the more important uses.\n\nFinal utility is the logical conclusion of marginal utility and a corner stone of price theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "9486941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9486941", "title": "Geltungsjude", "text": "Geltungsjude\n\nGeltungsjude was the term for people who were considered Jews by the first supplementary decree to the Nuremberg Laws from 14 November 1935. The term wasn't used officially, but was coined because the persons were deemed (\"gelten\" in German) Jews rather than exactly belonging to any of the categories of the previous Nuremberg Laws. There were three categories of Geltungsjuden: 1. offspring of an intermarriage who belonged to the Jewish community after 1935; 2. offspring of an intermarriage who was married to a Jew after 1935; 3. illegitimate child of a Geltungsjude, born after 1935.\n\nThe definition of these persons in the decree is as follows:\n\nEach of these is \"considered\" a Jew, hence the name \"Geltungsjude\". The term \"jüdischer Mischling\" in the first sentence means \"Jewish half-breed\". A person with two Jewish grandparents who satisfied none of the criteria (a) through (d) was not considered a \"Geltungsjude\" but a Mischling of the First Degree. (See also the article on the Mischling test.)\n\n\"Geltungsjuden\" were not citizens of the Reich anymore and did not have the right to vote. They were also prohibited to marry a \"quarter Jew\". In the Protectorate, they were routinely deported. They were sometimes deported from the \"Old Reich\" (Altreich), and only very rarely from Austria.\n\nIn contrast, while Mischlinge of the First Degree within the Old Reich were subject to various forms of discrimination, they were at least in principle exempt from deportation. Their status as \"provisional citizens\" was subject of an intra-regime tug-of-war between maximalists like Heydrich (who wanted them treated like Jews) and minimalists who pleaded against \"throwing out the Aryan with the Jewish blood\" (such as Wilhelm Stuckart and his assistant Hans Globke).\n\n"}
{"id": "24118302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24118302", "title": "High society (social class)", "text": "High society (social class)\n\nHigh society, also called in some contexts simply \"society\", is the behavior and lifestyle of people with the highest levels of wealth and social status. It includes their related affiliations, social events and practices. Upscale social clubs were open to men based on assessments of their ranking and role within high society. In American high society, the \"Social Register\" was traditionally a key resource for identifying qualified members. From a global perspective, see upper class. The quality of housing, clothing, servants and dining were visible marks of membership.\n\nThe term became common in the late 19th century, especially when the newly arrived rich in key cities such as New York City, Boston, and Newport, Rhode Island, built great mansions and sponsored highly publicized parties. The media lavished attention on them, especially when newspapers devoted whole sections to weddings, funerals, parties and other events sponsored by the local high society. In major cities, a Social Register was published that listed the names and addresses of people who properly belonged. Informal identifiers appeared, such as the \"upper tens\" in mid-19th century New York City, or \"the 400,\" Ward McAllister's late 19th-century term for the number of people Mrs. William Backhouse Astor, Jr's ballroom could supposedly accommodate, although the actual number was 273.\n\nDebutantes are young female members of high society being officially presented for the first time, at debutante balls or cotillions. An example of a high society debutante ball is the prestigious International Debutante Ball at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City.\n\nGold and silver mining, in the mid 19th century brought enormous wealth overnight to certain small towns such as Central City, Colorado and Leadville, Colorado. The new rich typically build a lavish opera house in the mining town, but then moved to a major city, especially Denver or San Francisco, where their wealth could be more suitably displayed and enjoyed. When the men attended to business affairs, women generally took charge of comings and goings and doings in high society.\n\nStarting with the Stuyvesant luxury apartment house that opened in 1869, and The Dakota in 1884, affluent New Yorkers discovered the advantages of apartment living, where a full-time staff handled the upkeep and maintenance, as well as security.\n\nIn most French cities the very rich, often holding an old aristocratic title, maintained an elaborate high society well into the 20th century. Ten to twenty servants demonstrated the taste for conspicuous consumption. The richest households in Paris typically employed 30 servants. After 1945 the supply of servants dried up and there was a move to smaller inner city apartments in elite neighborhoods.\n\nArt in this time was almost exclusively linked to the possession of money. The art of high society focused greatly on absorbing cultures from around the world, and referencing great architecture from the past, and commissioning artists that were from Europe. The culture was to possess knowledge and artifacts from other cultures or at least replicated it very well.\n\nAcquiring rare and valuable items was another way of high society representing its prestige. Art was also a way of representing taste level and someones ability to commission the right artist or chose the best piece to have installed in their homes.\n\nPortrait painters were in high demand in London. Meanwhile, the smaller corps of American artists shifted their focus from painting the great landscapes of America to making portraits of great Americans. However art historians generally ignored the society artists such as John Singer Sargent (1856 – 1925) until the late 20th century.\n\nPortraiture became the most common art in order for people in high society to record and have evidence of their accomplishment and valuable possessions.\n\nNew York City started its \"Great Portrait Exhibition\", focused on high society. The exhibition became a place for people to see Who's Who in New York City high society and focused more on the names of the people in the portraits rather than the quality of the portraits. The art community focused on portraiture, and changed art into a circle that created a tight knit between, patronage, artist, and critiques.\n\nStanford White (1853-1906) was the most influential architect for High Society. High Society was also immortalized through the building of mansions glittered in decadence and detail that were reminiscent of the renaissance, and the Victorian gothic. These massive homes were visible in dense cities like New York, they sprinkled main avenues that belonged to the wealth or middle class and stayed clear of the poor areas that were dense and littered with filth and the poor working class. Richard Morris Hunt played a large role in giving many members of High Society what they were looking for: homes that represented their cosmopolitan outlook and outshine all that was around it. For more on the homes of this time era see List of Gilded Age mansions.\n\nMembers of high society depend greatly on the people and social circles they are surrounded by. In many cases an elite member can confirm status by having, servants, people who remove a task from everyday life, or artists and performers, who they can use their talent and skills at their disposal.\n\nSocial groups play the most important role in establishing members of high society. Members of high society usually must attend social gatherings throughout the year while also putting together social gatherings in their own homes. The sociological distinction is the use of social capital in order to attend or be invited to certain events. Members of high society tend to be aware of the connections that should be made in order to move up the social ladder.\n\nHigh society is less visible in the 21st century—privacy is much more valued, and the very expensive housing is not as conspicuous to ordinary pedestrians as the famous old mansions. There are far fewer servants, but much more attention to security. Remote ski resorts in places like Vail and Aspen are especially popular with high society. The quality of housing remains important. Moneyed society in New York City looks for apartments that are:\n\nnear good schools, restaurants, museums, and all the city offers, they offer privacy, security, and stately architecture, with an almost obsessive attention to detail in the woodwork, fine wood floors, moldings, brass door handles, and many other handcrafted features.\n\nPhilanthropy is a high-prestige activity in high society. As in the case of one prominent heiress, her \"millions often went to supporting institutions geared toward improving life for less-fortunate New Yorkers—libraries, universities, hospitals, public gardens and conservation groups among them.\" Sociologist Francie Ostrower states:\n\nThe wealthy take philanthropy and adapt it into an entire way of life that serves as a vehicle for the social and cultural life of their class. This is reflected in the widespread popularity of educational and cultural causes among donors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13510524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13510524", "title": "Honesty box", "text": "Honesty box\n\nAn honesty box is a method of charging for a service such as admission or car parking, or for a product such as home-grown produce and flowers, which relies upon each visitor paying at a box using the honour system. Tickets are not issued and such sites are usually unattended. When used in camping sites and other park settings, they are sometimes referred to as an iron ranger as there is often an iron cash box instead of an actual park ranger. Some stores also use them for selling newspapers to avoid queues at a till.\n\nSuch boxes are typically used in rural areas where the low number of customers and other visitors, along with the low quantity and/or value of the products on offer, means that an attendant would not bring a positive return on investment. Many are also domestically run operations where attendance is not feasible.\n\n"}
{"id": "16746969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16746969", "title": "Index of children's rights articles", "text": "Index of children's rights articles\n\nArticles related to children's rights include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "639540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639540", "title": "Indoctrination", "text": "Indoctrination\n\nIndoctrination is the process of inculcating a person with ideas, attitudes, cognitive strategies or professional methodologies (see doctrine). Humans are a social animal inescapably shaped by cultural context, and thus some degree of indoctrination is implicit in the parent–child relationship, and has an essential function in forming stable communities of shared values. \n\nIn the political context, indoctrination is often analyzed as a tool of class warfare, where institutions of the state are identified as \"conspiring\" to maintain the status quo. Specifically the public educational system, the police, and mental health establishment are a commonly cited \"modus operandi\" of public pacification. In the extreme, an entire state can be implicated. George Orwell's book \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" famously singled out explicit, state-mandated propaganda initiatives of totalitarian regimes. Opinions differ on whether other forms of government are less doctrinaire, or merely achieve the same ends through less obvious methods. \n\nThe precise boundary between education and indoctrination often lies in the eye of the beholder. Some distinguish indoctrination from education on the basis that the indoctrinated person is expected not to question or critically examine the doctrine they have learned. As such the term may be used pejoratively or as a buzz word, often in the context of political opinions, theology, religious dogma or anti-religious convictions. \n\nThe term is closely linked to socialization; however, in common discourse, \"indoctrination\" is often associated with negative connotations, while \"socialization\" functions as a generic descriptor conveying no specific value or connotation (some choosing to hear socialization as an inherently positive and necessary contribution to social order, others choosing to hear socialization as primarily an instrument of social oppression). Matters of doctrine (and indoctrination) have been contentious and divisive in human society dating back to antiquity. The expression attributed to Titus Lucretius Carus in the first century BCE \"quod ali cibus est aliis fuat acre venenum\" (what is food to one, is to others bitter poison) remains pertinent.\n\nReligious indoctrination, the original sense of \"indoctrination\", refers to a process of imparting doctrine in an authoritative way, as in catechism. Most religious groups among the revealed religions instruct new members in the principles of the religion; this is now not usually referred to as \"indoctrination\" by the religions themselves, in part because of the negative connotations the word has acquired. Mystery religions require a period of indoctrination before granting access to esoteric knowledge. (cf. Information security)\n\nAs a pejorative term, \"indoctrination\" implies forcibly or coercively causing people to act and think on the basis of a certain ideology. Some secular critics believe that all religions indoctrinate their adherents, as children, and the accusation is made in the case of religious extremism. Sects such as Scientology use personality tests and peer pressures to indoctrinate new members. Some religions have commitment ceremonies for children 13 years and younger, such as Bar Mitzvah, Confirmation, and Shichi-Go-San. In Buddhism, temple boys are encouraged to follow the faith while young. Critics of religion, such as Richard Dawkins, maintain that the children of religious parents are often unfairly indoctrinated.\n\nHowever, indoctrination can occur, and often does occur with great frequency, in non-religious contexts. For example, in the 20th century, the former People's Socialist Republic of Albania and the former USSR instituted programs of government-sponsored atheistic indoctrination in order to promote state atheism, specifically Marxist–Leninist atheism, within their citizenry. Sabrina P. Ramet, a professor of political science, documented that \"from kindergarten onward children [were] indoctrinated with an aggressive form of atheism\" and \"to denounce parents who follow religious practices at home.\" However, after the death of Albania's leader, Enver Hoxha in 1985, his successor, Ramiz Alia, adopted a relatively tolerant stance toward religious practice, referring to it as \"a personal and family matter.\" Émigré clergymen were permitted to reenter the country in 1988 and officiate at religious services. Mother Teresa, an ethnic Albanian, visited Tirana in 1989, where she was received by the foreign minister and by Hoxha's widow. In December 1990, the ban on religious observance was officially lifted, in time to allow thousands of Christians to attend Christmas services (see Freedom of religion in Albania).\n\nSimilarly, in the former Soviet Union, \"science education [in] Soviet schools [was] used as a vehicle for atheistic indoctrination\", with teachers being instructed to prepare their course \"so as to conduct anti-religious educations at all times,\" in order to comport with state-sanctioned Marxist–Leninist values. However, in 1997, several years after the fall of the Soviet Union, the Russian government passed a law recognizing religion as being important to Russian history with Orthodox Christianity (Russian: Православие Pravoslaviye), Russia's traditional and largest religion, declared a part of Russia's \"historical heritage.\"\n\nThe initial psychological preparation of soldiers during training is referred to (non-pejoratively) as indoctrination.\n\nIn the field of information security, indoctrination is the initial briefing and instructions given before a person is granted access to secret information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16016", "title": "Jainism", "text": "Jainism\n\nJainism (), traditionally known as Jain Dharma, is an ancient Indian religion. Followers of Jainism are called \"Jains\", a word derived from the Sanskrit word \"jina\" (victor) and connoting the path of victory in crossing over life's stream of rebirths through an ethical and spiritual life Jains trace their history through a succession of twenty-four victorious saviours and teachers known as \"tirthankaras\", with the first being Rishabhanatha, who according to Jain tradition lived millions of years ago, and twenty-fourth being the Mahāvīra around 500 BCE. Jains believe that Jainism is an eternal \"dharma\" with the \"tirthankaras\" guiding every cycle of the Jain cosmology.\n\nThe main religious premises of Jainism are \"ahiṃsā\" (\"non-violence\"), \"anekāntavāda\" (\"many-sidedness\"), \"aparigraha\" (\"non-attachment\") and \"asceticism\". Devout Jains take five main vows: \"ahiṃsā\" (\"non-violence\"), \"satya\" (\"truth\"), \"asteya\" (\"not stealing\"), \"brahmacharya\" (\"celibacy or chastity\"), and \"aparigraha\" (\"non-attachment\"). These principles have impacted Jain culture in many ways, such as leading to a predominantly vegetarian lifestyle that avoids harm to animals and their life cycles. \"Parasparopagraho Jīvānām\" (\"the function of souls is to help one another\") is the motto of Jainism. \"Ṇamōkāra mantra\" is the most common and basic prayer in Jainism.\n\nJainism has two major ancient sub-traditions, Digambaras and Śvētāmbaras; and several smaller sub-traditions that emerged in the 2nd millennium CE. The Digambaras and Śvētāmbaras have different views on ascetic practices, gender and which Jain texts can be considered canonical. Jain mendicants are found in all Jain sub-traditions, with laypersons (\"śrāvakas\") supporting the mendicants' spiritual pursuits with resources.\n\nJainism has between four and five million followers, with most Jains residing in India. Outside India, some of the largest Jain communities are present in Canada, Europe, Kenya, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Suriname, Fiji, and the United States. Major Jain festivals include Paryushana and Daslakshana, Mahavir Jayanti, and Diwali.\n\nThe principle of \"ahimsa\" (\"non-violence\" or \"non-injury\") is a fundamental tenet of Jainism. It believes that one must abandon all violent activity, and without such a commitment to non-violence all religious behavior is worthless. In Jain theology, it does not matter how correct or defensible the violence may be, one must not kill any being, and \"non-violence is one's highest religious duty\".\n\nJain texts such as \"Acaranga Sūtra\" and \"Tattvarthasūtra\" state that one must renounce all killing of living beings, whether tiny or large, movable or immovable. Its theology teaches that one must neither kill another living being, nor cause another to kill, nor consent to any killing directly or indirectly. Furthermore, Jainism emphasizes non-violence against all beings not only in action but also in speech and in thought. It states that instead of hate or violence against anyone, \"all living creatures must help each other\". Violence negatively affects and destroys one's soul, particularly when the violence is done with intent, hate or carelessness, or when one indirectly causes or consents to the killing of a human or non-human living being.\n\nThe idea of reverence for non-violence (\"ahiṃsā\") is founded in Hindu and Buddhist canonical texts, and it may have origins in more ancient Brahmanical Vedic thoughts. However, no other Indian religion has developed the non-violence doctrine and its implications on everyday life as has Jainism.\n\nThe theological basis of non-violence as the highest religious duty has been interpreted by some Jain scholars not to \"be driven by merit from giving or compassion to other creatures, nor a duty to rescue all creatures\", but resulting from \"continual self-discipline\", a cleansing of the soul that leads to one's own spiritual development which ultimately affects one's salvation and release from rebirths. Causing injury to any being in any form creates bad karma which affects one's rebirth, future well being and suffering.\n\nLate medieval Jain scholars re-examined the \"Ahiṃsā\" doctrine when one is faced with external threat or violence. For example, they justified violence by monks to protect nuns. According to Dundas, the Jain scholar Jinadatta Suri wrote during a time of Muslim destruction of temples and persecution that \"anybody engaged in a religious activity who was forced to fight and kill somebody would not lose any spiritual merit but instead attain deliverance\". However, such examples in Jain texts that condone fighting and killing under certain circumstances are relatively rare.\n\nThe second main principle of Jainism is \"anekāntavāda\" or \"anekantatva\", a word derived from \"anekānta\" (\"not one ended, sided\", \"many-sidedness\" or \"manifoldness\") and \"vada\" (\"doctrine\", \"way\").\n\nThe \"anekāntavāda\" doctrine states that truth and reality is complex and always has multiple aspects. Reality can be experienced, but it is not possible to totally express it with language. Human attempts to communicate is \"Naya\", explained as \"partial expression of the truth\". Language is not Truth, but a means and attempt to express Truth. From Truth, according to Mahāvīra, language returns and not the other way round. One can experience the truth of a taste, but cannot fully express that taste through language. Any attempts to express the experience is \"syāt\", or valid \"in some respect\" but it remains a \"perhaps, just one perspective, incomplete\". In the same way, spiritual truths are complex, they have multiple aspects, and language cannot express their plurality, yet through effort and appropriate karma they can be experienced. Since reality is many-sided the great error, according to Jainism, is \"ekānta\" (one-sidedness) where some relative truth is treated as an absolute truth to the exclusion of others.\n\nThe \"anekāntavāda\" premise of the Jains is ancient, as evidenced by its mention in Buddhist texts such as the \"Samaññaphala Sutta\". The Jain Agamas suggest that Mahāvīra's approach to answering all metaphysical philosophical questions was a \"qualified yes\" (\"syāt\"). These texts identify \"anekāntavāda\" doctrine to be one of the key differences between the teachings of the Mahāvīra and those of the Buddha. The Buddha taught the Middle Way, rejecting extremes of the answer \"it is\" or \"it is not\" to metaphysical questions. The Mahāvīra, in contrast, taught his followers to accept both \"it is\", and \"it is not\", with \"perhaps\" qualification and with reconciliation to understand the Absolute Reality. \"Syādvāda\" (predication logic) and \"nayavāda\" (perspective epistemology) of Jainism expand on the concept of \"anekāntavāda\". \"Syādvāda\" recommends the expression of \"anekānta\" by prefixing the epithet \"syād\" to every phrase or expression describing the \"permanent being\". There is no creator God in Jainism; existence has neither beginning nor end, and the permanent being is conceptualized as \"jiva\" (\"soul\") and \"ajiva\" (\"matter\") within a dualistic \"anekāntavāda\" framework.\n\nAccording to Paul Dundas, in contemporary times the \"anekāntavāda\" doctrine has been interpreted by some Jains as intending to \"promote a universal religious tolerance\", and a teaching of \"plurality\" and \"benign attitude to other [ethical, religious] positions\". Dundas states this is problematic and a misreading of Jain historical texts and Mahāvīra's teachings. The \"many pointedness, multiple perspective\" teachings of the Mahāvīra is a doctrine about the nature of absolute reality and human existence, and it is sometimes called \"non-absolutism\" doctrine. However, it is not a doctrine about tolerating or condoning activities such as sacrificing or killing animals for food, nor violence against disbelievers or any other living being as \"perhaps right\". The five vows for Jain monks and nuns, for example, are strict requirements and there is no \"perhaps\" or \"that is just one perspective\" about them. Similarly, since ancient times, Jainism co-existed with Buddhism and Hinduism according to Dundas, but Jainism was highly critical of the knowledge systems and ideologies of its rivals, and vice versa.\n\nThe third main principle in Jainism is \"aparigraha\" which means non-attachment to worldly possessions. For ascetics, Jainism requires a vow of complete non-possession of any property. For Jain laypersons, it recommends limited possession of property that has been honestly earned, and giving excess property to charity. According to Natubhai Shah, \"aparigraha\" applies to both the material and the psychic. Material possessions refer to various forms of property. Psychic possessions refer to emotions, likes and dislikes, and attachments of any form. Unchecked attachment to possessions is said to result in direct harm to one's personality.\n\nJainism views attachments to material or emotional possessions as what leads to passions, which in turn leads to violence. According to the \"aparigraha\" principle, a Jain monk or nun is expected to be homeless and family-less with no emotional longings or attachments. The ascetic is a wandering mendicant in the Digambara tradition, or a resident mendicant in the Śvētāmbara tradition.\n\nIn addition, Jain texts mention that \"attachment to possessions\" (\"parigraha\") is of two kinds: attachment to internal possessions (\"ābhyantara parigraha\"), and attachment to external possessions (\"bāhya parigraha\"). For internal possessions, Jainism identifies four key passions of the mind (\"kashaya\"): anger, pride (ego), deceitfulness, and greed. In addition to the four passions of the mind, the remaining ten internal passions are: wrong belief, the three sex-passions (male sex-passion, female sex-passion, neuter sex-passion), and the six defects (laughter, like, dislike, sorrow, fear, disgust).\n\nJainism teaches five ethical duties, which it calls five vows. These are called \"anuvratas\" (\"small vows\") for Jain laypersons, and \"mahavratas\" (\"great vows\") for Jain mendicants. For both, its moral precepts preface that the Jain has access to a \"guru\" (\"teacher\", \"counsellor\"), \"deva\" (\"Jina\", \"god\"), doctrine, and that the individual is free from five offences: doubts about the faith, indecisiveness about the truths of Jainism, sincere desire for Jain teachings, recognition of fellow Jains, and admiration for their spiritual pursuits. Such a person undertakes the following Five vows of Jainism:\n\nOf all the major Indian religions, Jainism has had the strongest austerity-driven ascetic tradition, and it is an essential part of a mendicant's spiritual pursuits. Ascetic life may include nakedness symbolizing non-possession of even clothes, fasting, body mortification, penance, and other austerities, in order to burn away past karma and stop producing new karma, both of which are believed in Jainism to be essential for reaching \"siddha\" and \"moksha\" (\"liberation from rebirths\", and \"salvation\").\n\nJain texts like \"Tattvartha Sūtra\" and \"Uttaradhyayana Sūtra\" discuss ascetic austerities to great lengths and formulations. Six outer and six inner practices are most common, and oft-repeated in later Jain texts. According to John Cort, outer austerities include complete fasting, eating limited amounts, eating restricted items, abstaining from tasty foods, mortifying the flesh, and guarding the flesh (avoiding anything that is a source of temptation). Inner austerities include expiation, confession, respecting and assisting mendicants, studying, meditation, and ignoring bodily wants in order to abandon the body.\n\nLists of internal and external austerities in Jainism varies with the text and tradition. Asceticism is viewed as a means to control desires, and a means to purify the \"jiva\" (\"soul\"). The \"tirthankaras\" of Jainism, such as the Mahāvīra (Vardhamana) set an example of leading an ascetic life by performing severe austerities for twelve years.\n\nThe practice of non-violence towards all living beings has led to Jain culture being vegetarian. Devout Jains practice lacto-vegetarianism, that is eat no eggs, but accept dairy products if there is no violence against animals during their production. Veganism is encouraged if there are concerns about animal welfare. Jain monks and nuns do not eat root vegetables such as potatoes, onions and garlic because tiny organisms are injured when the plant is pulled up, and because a bulb or tuber's ability to sprout is seen as characteristic of a higher living being.\n\nJains fast on different occasions throughout the year, particularly during festivals. This practice is called \"upavasa\", \"tapasya\" or \"vrata\". According to Singh, this takes on various forms and may be practised based on one's ability. Some examples include Digambara fasting for \"Dasa-laksana-parvan\" where a Jain layperson eats only one or two meals per day, drinking only boiled water for ten days, or fasting completely on the first and last day of the festival. With these practices the layperson mimics the practices of a Jain mendicant during the festival. A similar practice is found among Śvētāmbara Jains on eight day \"paryusana\" with \"samvatsari-pratikramana\".\n\nThe fasting practice is believed to remove karma from one's soul and allow one to gain merit (\"punya\"). A \"one day\" fast in Jain tradition lasts about 36 hours, starting at sunset before the day of the fast and ending 48 minutes after the sunrise the day after. Among laypeople, fasting is more commonly observed by women, where it is believed that this shows her piety, religious purity, gains her and her family prestige, leads to merit earning and helps ensure future well-being for her family. Some religious fasts are observed as a group where Jain women bond socially and support each other. Long fasts are celebrated by friends and families with special ceremonies.\n\nJainism considers meditation (\"dhyana\") a necessary practice, but its goals are very different from those in Buddhism and Hinduism. In Jainism, meditation is concerned more with stopping karmic attachments and activity, not as a means to transformational insights or self-realization in other Indian religions. Meditation in early Jain literature is a form of austerity and ascetic practice in Jainism, while in late medieval era the practice adopted ideas from other Indian traditions. According to Paul Dundas, this lack of meditative practices in early Jain texts may be because substantial portions of ancient Jain texts were lost.\n\nAccording to Padmanabh Jaini, \"Sāmāyika\" is a practice of \"brief periods in meditation\" in Jainism that is a part of \"siksavrata\" (\"ritual restraint\"). The goal of \"Sāmāyika\" is to achieve equanimity, and it is the second \"siksavrata\". The \"samayika\" ritual is practiced at least three times a day by mendicants, while a layperson includes it with other ritual practices such as \"Puja\" in a Jain temple and doing charity work. According to Johnson, as well as Jaini, \"samayika\" connotes more than meditation, and for a Jain householder is the voluntary ritual practice of \"assuming temporary ascetic status\".\n\nThe Digambara Jain scholar Kundakunda, in his \"Pravacanasara\" states that a Jain mendicant should meditate on \"I, the pure self\". Anyone who considers his body or possessions as \"I am this, this is mine\" is on the wrong road, while one who meditates, thinking the antithesis and \"I am not others, they are not mine, I am one knowledge\" is on the right road to meditating on the \"soul, the pure self\".\n\nThere are many rituals in Jainism's various sects. According to Dundas, the ritualistic lay path among Śvētāmbara Jains is \"heavily imbued with ascetic values\", where the rituals either revere or celebrate the ascetic life of Tirthankaras, or mendicants, or progressively get closer to psychologically and physically living ever more like an ascetic. The ultimate ritual is \"sallekhana\", a religious death through ascetic abandonment of food and drinks. The Digambara Jains follow the same theme, but the details differ from Śvētāmbaras, and according to Dundas, the life cycle and religious rituals are closer to the liturgy found among Hindu traditions. The overlap in Jain and Hindu rituals is largely in the life cycle (rites-of-passage) rituals, according to Padmanabh Jaini, and likely one that developed over time because Jains and Hindus societies overlapped, and rituals were viewed as necessary and secular ceremonies.\n\nJains do not believe in a creator god, but do ritually worship numerous deities. The Jinas are prominent and a large focus of this ritualism, but they are not the only \"deva\" in Jainism. A Jina as \"deva\" is not an avatar (incarnation) in Jainism, but the highest state of omniscience that an ascetic \"tirthankara\" achieved. Out of the 24 Tirthankaras, Jain devotional worship is predominantly addressed to four: Mahāvīra, Parshvanatha, Neminatha and Rishabhanatha. Among the non-\"tirthankara\" saints, devotional worship is common for Bahubali among the Digambaras. Some of Jaina rituals remember the five life events of the \"tirthankaras\", called the \"Panch Kalyanaka\", are rituals such as the \"Panch Kalyanaka Pratishtha Mahotsava\", \"Panch Kalyanaka Puja\" and \"Snatrapuja\".\nThe basic worship ritual practised by Jains is \"darsana\" (\"seeing\") of \"deva\", which includes Jina, or other yaksas, gods and goddesses such as Brahmadeva, 52 Viras, Padmavati, Ambika and 16 Vidyadevis (Sarasvati, Lakshmi, others). The Terapanthi sub-tradition of Digambaras do not worship many of the deities popular among mainstream Digambaras, and they limit their ritual worship to Tirthankaras. The worship ritual is called the \"devapuja\", is found in all Jaina sub traditions, which share common features. Typically, the Jaina layperson enters the temple inner sanctum in simple clothing and bare feet, with a plate filled with offerings, bows down, says the namaskara, completes his or her litany and prayers, sometimes is assisted by the temple priest, leaves the offerings and then departs.\n\nJain practices include performing \"abhisheka\" (\"ceremonial bath\") of the images. Some Jain sects employ a \"pujari\" (also called \"upadhye\") for rituals, who may be a non-Jain (a Hindu), to perform special rituals and other priestly duties at the temple. More elaborate worship includes ritual offerings such as rice, fresh and dry fruits, flowers, coconut, sweets, and money. Some may light up a lamp with camphor and make auspicious marks with sandalwood paste. Devotees also recite Jain texts, particularly the life stories of the tirthankaras.\n\nThe traditional Jains, like Buddhists and Hindus, believe in the efficacy of mantras and that certain sounds and words are inherently auspicious, powerful and spiritual. The most famous of the mantras, broadly accepted in various sects of Jainism, is the \"five homage\" (\"panca namaskara\") mantra which is believed to be eternal and existent since the first ford-maker's time. The medieval era Jain worship practices, according to Ellen Gough, also developed tantric diagrams of the \"Rishi-mandala\" where the \"tirthankaras\" are portrayed. The Tantric traditions within Jainism use mantra and rituals that are believed to accrue merit for rebirth realms.\n\nJains celebrate many annual festivals. Many of the major festivals in Jainism fall in and around the \"comasu\" (Sanskrit: \"chaturmasa\") period of the calendar. It is the four month monsoon period when the Jain ascetics are mandated to remain in residence at one place in the Jain tradition, rather than be traveling or going around Indian villages and towns and never staying in one place for more than a month. The \"comasu\" period allows the four orders of the Jain community to be together and participate in the festive remembrances.\n\nThe most important annual Jain festival is called the \"Paryushana\" by Svetambaras and \"Dasa lakshana parva\" by the Digambaras. It is celebrated from the 12th day of waning moon in the traditional luni-solar month of Bhadrapada in the Indian calendar. This typically falls in August or September of the Gregorian calendar. It lasts eight days for Svetambaras, and ten days among the Digambaras. It is a time when lay people fast and pray. The five vows are emphasized during this time. Svetambaras recite the \"Kalpasūtras\", while Digambaras read their own texts. The festival is an occasion where Jains make active effort to stop cruelty towards other life forms, freeing animals in captivity and preventing slaughter of animals.\nThe last day involves a focused prayer/meditation session known as \"Samvatsari\". Jains consider this as a day of atonement, granting forgiveness to others, seeking forgiveness from all living beings, physically or mentally asking for forgiveness and resolving to treat everyone in the world as friends. Forgiveness is asked by saying \"\"Micchami Dukkadam\" or \"Khamat Khamna\"\" to others. This means, \"If I have offended you in any way, knowingly or unknowingly, in thought, word or action, then I seek your forgiveness.\" The literal meaning of \"Paryushana\" is \"abiding\" or \"coming together\".\n\nMahavir Jayanti celebrates the birth of Mahāvīra. It is celebrated on the 13th day of the luni-solar month of Chaitra in the traditional Indian calendar. This typically falls in March or April of the Gregorian calendar. The festivities include visiting Jain temples, pilgrimages to shrines, reading Jain texts and processions of Mahāvīra by the community. At his legendary birthplace of Kundagrama in Bihar, north of Patna, special events are held by Jains.\n\nDiwali is observed by Jains as the anniversary of Mahāvīra's attainment of \"moksha\". The Hindu festival of Diwali is also celebrated on the same date (\"Kartika Amavasya\"). Jain temples, homes, offices, and shops are decorated with lights and \"diyas\" (\"small oil lamps\"). The lights are symbolic of knowledge or removal of ignorance. Sweets are often distributed. On Diwali morning, \"Nirvan Ladoo\" is offered after praying to Mahāvīra in all Jain temples across the world. The Jain new year starts right after Diwali. Some other festivals celebrated by Jains are Akshaya Tritiya and Raksha Bandhan, similar to those in the Hindu communities.\n\nJainism monastic organization is a part of Jain society called \"sangh\". A \"sangh\" has a four-fold order, or \"caturvidh, sakal sangh\". This consists of \"sadhu\" (male ascetics, \"muni\"), \"sadhvi\" (female ascetics, \"aryika\"), \"śrāvaka\" (\"laymen\"), and \"śrāvikā\" (\"laywoman\"). The latter two support the ascetics and their monastic organizations called \"gacch\" or \"samuday\", in autonomous regional Jain congregations.\n\nDigambar tradition has two main monastic orders Mula Sangh and the Kashtha Sangh, both led by Bhattarakas. Other notable monastic orders include the Digambara Terapanth which emerged in the 17th century. Śvētāmbaras have their own \"sanghs\", but unlike Digambaras which have had predominantly \"sadhu sanghs\" (male monastic organizations), they have major \"sadhu\" and \"sadhvi\" \"sanghs\" (monks and nuns).\nAccording to Śvētāmbara Jain texts, from \"Kalpasūtras\" onwards, its monastic community has had more \"sadhvis\" than \"sadhus\" (female than male mendicants). In \"Tapa Gacch\" of the modern era, the ratio of \"sadhvis\" to \"sadhus\" (nuns to monks) is about 3.5 to 1. In contrast to Śvētāmbara, the Digambara sect monastic community has been predominantly male. In the Digambara tradition, a male human being is considered closest to the apex with the potential to achieve his soul's liberation from rebirths through asceticism. Women must gain karmic merit, to be reborn as man, and only then can they achieve spiritual liberation in the Digambara sect of Jainism. The Śvētāmbaras disagree with the Digambaras, believing that women can also achieve liberation from \"Saṃsāra\" through ascetic practices.\n\nThe Jain monastic organization shares many parallels with those found in Buddhist and Brahmanical-Hindu monasticism. They all have similar rules, hierarchical structure, practices such as not traveling during the four-month monsoon season and celibacy. According to William Johnston, this is not likely from mutual borrowing of ideas, but because these traditions emerged from the same ancient Indian monastic traditions that preceded the Buddha and the Mahāvīra. There are some differences. For example, the Jain and Hindu monastic community has been traditionally more mobile and had an itinerant lifestyle, while Buddhist monks have favored belonging to a \"sangha\" (monastery) and staying in its premises. Buddhist monastic rules forbid a monk to go outside without wearing the sangha's distinctive ruddy robe, or to use wooden bowls. In contrast, Jain monastic rules have either required no clothes (Digambara) or white (Śvētāmbara) and the use of wooden or empty gourd as the begging bowl. The Jain monastic rules have encouraged the use of mouth cover, as well as a broom to gently remove any insect that comes in their path.\n\nJainism also prescribes seven supplementary vows which include three \"guņa vratas\" (\"merit vows\") and four \"śikşā vratas\".\n\nThe \"Sallekhana\" (or \"Santhara\") vow is a \"religious death\" ritual vow observed at the end of life, historically by Jain monks and nuns, but rare in the modern age. In this vow, there is voluntary and gradual reduction of food and liquid intake to end one's life by choice and with dispassion, In Jainism this is believed to reduce negative karma that affects a soul's future rebirths.\n\nThe Jain community is divided into two major denominations, Digambara and Śvētāmbara. Monks of the Digambara (\"sky-clad\") tradition do not wear clothes. Female monastics of the Digambara sect wear unstitched plain white sarees and are referred to as \"Aryikas\". Śvētāmbara (\"white-clad\") monastics, on the other hand, wear seamless white clothes.\n\nDuring Chandragupta Maurya's reign, Jain tradition states that \"Acharya\" Bhadrabahu predicted a twelve-year-long famine and moved to Karnataka with his disciples. Sthulabhadra, a pupil of \"Acharya\" Bhadrabahu, stayed in Magadha. Later, when followers of \"Acharya\" Bhadrabahu returned, they found those who had remained at Magadha had started wearing white clothes, which was unacceptable to the others who remained naked. This is how Jains believe the Digambara and Śvētāmbara schism began, with the former being naked while the latter wore white clothes. Digambara saw this as being opposed to the Jain tenet of \"aparigraha\" which, according to them, required not even possession of clothes, i.e. complete nudity. In the 5th-century CE, the Council of Valabhi was organized by Śvētāmbara, which Digambara did not attend. At the council, the Śvētāmbara adopted the texts they had preserved as canonical scriptures, which Digambara have ever since rejected. This council solidified the historic schism between these two major traditions of Jainism. The earliest record of Digambara beliefs is contained in the Prakrit \"Suttapahuda\" of Kundakunda.\nOther than rejecting or accepting different ancient Jain texts, Digambaras and Śvētāmbara differ in other significant ways such as:\n\nExcavations at Mathura revealed Jain statues from the time of the Kushan Empire (c.1st century CE). \"Tirthankara\" represented without clothes, and monks with cloth wrapped around the left arm, are identified as the \"Ardhaphalaka\" (\"half-clothed\") mentioned in texts. The Yapaniyas, believed to have originated from the \"Ardhaphalaka\", followed Digambara nudity along with several Śvētāmbara beliefs.\n\nBoth of the major Jain traditions evolved into sub-traditions over time. For example, the devotional worship traditions of Śvētāmbara are referred to as \"Murti-pujakas\", those who live in and around Jain temples became \"Deravasi\" or \"Mandira-margi\". Those who avoid temples and pursue their spirituality at a designated monastic meeting place came to be known as \"Sthānakavāsī\". About the 18th century, the Śvētāmbara and Digambara traditions saw an emergence of separate Terapanthi movements. Some scholars such as Malvaniya state that these ideas entered Jainism from an influence of Islam, while others such as Dundas state that these ideas, debates and movements can be traced in more ancient texts than the start of Islam.\n\nIn the modern era, according to Flügel, new Jaina religious movements that are a \"primarily devotional form of Jainism\" have developed which resemble \"Jain Mahayana\" style devotionalism.\n\nA male human being is considered closest to the apex with the potential to achieve liberation, particularly through asceticism. In the Digambara traditional belief, women must gain karmic merit, to be reborn as man, and only then can they achieve spiritual liberation. However, this view has been historically debated within Jainism and different Jaina sects have expressed different views, particularly the Śvētāmbara sect that believes that women too can achieve spiritual liberation from rebirths in \"Saṃsāra\". The \"Śvētāmbaras\" state the 19th \"Tirthankara\" Māllīnātha was female. However, Digambara reject this, and worship Mallinatha as a male.\n\nThe \"dravya\" in Jainism are fundamental entities, called \"astikaya\" (literally, \"collection that exists\"). They are believed to be eternal, and the ontological building blocks that constitute and explain all existence, whether perceived or not.\n\nAccording to the Śvētāmbara tradition of Jainism, there are five eternal substances in existence: Soul (\"jiva\"), Matter (\"pudgala\"), Space (\"akasha\"), motion (\"Dharma\") and rest (\"Adharma\"). To this list of five, the Digambara Jain tradition adds \"Time\" (\"kala\") as the sixth eternal substance. In both traditions, the substance of space is conceptualized as \"world space\" (\"lokakasha\") and \"non-world space\" (\"alokiakasha\"). Further, both soul and matter are considered as active ontological substances, while the rest are inactive. Another categorization found in Jain philosophy is \"jiva\" and \"ajiva\", the latter being all \"dravya\" that is not \"jiva\".\n\n\"Jiva\" means \"soul\" in Jainism, and is also called \"jivatman\". It is a core concept and the fundamental focus of the Jain theology. The soul is believed to be eternal, and a substance that undergoes constant modifications, in every life, after every rebirth of a living being. \"Jiva\" consists of pure consciousness in the Jain thought, has innate \"free will\" that causes it to act but is believed to be intangible and formless. It is the soul that experiences existence and gains knowledge, not mind nor body both believed to a heap of matter. Jain philosophy further believes that the soul is the mechanism of rebirth, and karma accumulation. It is the same size in all living beings, such as a human being, a tiny insect and a large elephant. \"Jiva\" is everywhere, filling and infused in every minuscule part of the entire \"loka\" (realm of existence), according to Jainism. The soul has the potential to reach omniscience and eternal bliss, and end the cycles of rebirth and associated suffering, which is the goal of Jain spirituality.\n\nThe \"jiva\" is believed to rely on other \"dravya\" to function. The Jain philosophy completely separates body (matter) from the soul (consciousness). Souls reside in bodies and journey endlessly through \"saṃsāra\" (that is, realms of existence through cycles of rebirths and redeaths).\n\n\"Jivas\" are believed to be of two types, stationary and mobile. Illustration of the former are plants, while moving \"jivas\" include examples such as human beings, animals, gods, hell beings and insects. \"Jivas\" are further classified in Jain philosophy by assigned number of senses which range from one sensory organ to five sensory organs. Inert world such as air, fire or clod of dirt, considered non-sensate in contemporary science, are asserted in historic texts of Jainism to be living and with sensory powers.\n\n\"Ajiva\" consists of everything other than \"jiva\". Life processes such as breath, means of knowledge such as language, all emotional and biological experiences such as pleasure and pain are all believed in Jainism to be made of \"pudgala\" (\"matter\"). These interact with \"tattva\" or reality to create, bind, destroy or unbind karma particles to the soul.\n\nAccording to Dundas, \"Dharma\" as a metaphysical substance in Jain philosophy may be understood as \"that which carries\" instead of the literal sense of ordinary physical motion. Thus, \"dharma\" includes all verbal and mental activity, that contribute to karma and purification of the soul.\n\n\"Tattva\" connotes \"Reality, Truth\" in Jain philosophy, and is the framework for salvation. According to Digambara Jains, there are seven \"tattvas\", while Śvētāmbaras believe in nine \"tattvas\":\n\nThe true insight in Jain philosophy is considered as \"faith in the \"tattvas\"\". The spiritual goal in Jainism is to reach \"moksha\" for ascetics, but for most Jain laypersons and ascetics it is to accumulate good karma that leads to better rebirth and a step closer to liberation.\n\nAccording to Jainism, the existence of \"a bound and ever changing soul\" is a self-evident truth, an axiom which does not need to be proven. There are numerous souls, but every one of them has three qualities (\"Guṇa\"): consciousness (\"caitanya\", most important quality of soul), bliss (\"sukha\") and vibrational energy (\"virya\"). The vibration draws karmic particles to the soul and creates bondages, but is also what adds merit or demerit to the soul.\n\nKarma, like in other Indian religions, connotes in Jainism the universal cause and effect law. However, it is envisioned as a material substance (subtle matter) that can bind to the soul, travel with the soul substance in bound form between rebirths, and affect the suffering and happiness experienced by the \"jiva\" in the \"lokas\". Karma is also believed to obscure and obstruct the innate nature and striving of the soul, as well as its spiritual potential in the next rebirth.\n\nThe relationship between the soul and karma, states Padmanabh Jaini, can be explained with the analogy of gold. Like gold is always found mixed with impurities in its original state, Jainism holds that the soul is not pure at its origin but is always impure and defiled like natural gold. One can exert effort and purify gold, similarly, Jainism states that the defiled soul can be purified by proper refining methodology. Karma either defiles the soul further, or refines it to a cleaner state, and this affects future rebirths. Karma is thus an efficient cause (\"nimitta\") in Jain philosophy, but not the material cause (\"upadana\"). The soul is believed to be the material cause.\n\n\"Tirthankara-nama-karma\" is a special type of karma, bondage of which raises a soul to the supreme status of a \"tirthankara\".\nJain texts state that souls exist as \"clothed with material bodies\", where it entirely fills up the body. There are five types of bodies in the Jaina thought: earthly (e.g. most humans, animals and plants), metamorphic (e.g. gods, hell beings, fine matter, some animals and a few humans who can morph because of their perfections), transference type (e.g. good and pure substances realized by ascetics), fiery (e.g. heat that transforms or digests food), and karmic (the substrate where the karmic particles reside and which make the soul ever changing).\n\nJain philosophy further divides the earthly body by symmetry, number of sensory organs, vitalities (\"ayus\"), functional capabilities and whether one body hosts one soul or one body hosts many. Every living being has one to five senses, three \"balas\" (power of body, language and mind), respiration (inhalation and exhalation), and life-duration. All living beings, in every realm including the gods and hell beings, accrue and destroy eight types of karma according to the elaborate theories in Jain texts. Elaborate descriptions of the shape and function of the physical and metaphysical universe, and its constituents, are also provided in the Jain texts. All of these elaborate theories attempt to illustrate and consistently explain the Jain karma theory in a deeply moral framework, much like Buddhism and Hinduism but with significant differences in the details and assumptions.\n\nThe conceptual framework of the Saṃsāra doctrine differs between the Jainism traditions and other Indian religions. For instance, in Jaina traditions, soul (\"jiva\") is accepted as a truth, as is assumed in the Hindu traditions. It is not assumed in the Buddhist traditions. However, Saṃsāra or the cycle of rebirths, has a definite beginning and end in Jainism. The Jaina theosophy, unlike Hindu and Buddhist theosophies, asserts that each soul passes through 8,400,000 birth-situations, as they circle through \"Saṃsāra\". As the soul cycles, states Padmanabh Jaini, Jainism traditions believe that it goes through five types of bodies: earth bodies, water bodies, fire bodies, air bodies and vegetable lives. With all human and non-human activities, such as rainfall, agriculture, eating and even breathing, minuscule living beings are taking birth or dying, their souls are believed to be constantly changing bodies. Perturbing, harming or killing any life form, including any human being, is considered a sin in Jainism, with negative karmic effects.\n\nSouls begin their journey in a primordial state, and exist in a state of consciousness continuum that is constantly evolving through \"Saṃsāra\". Some evolve to a higher state; some regress asserts the Jaina theory, a movement that is driven by the karma. Further, Jaina traditions believe that there exist \"Abhavya\" (\"incapable\"), or a class of souls that can never attain \"moksha\" (\"liberation\"). The \"Abhavya\" state of soul is entered after an intentional and shockingly evil act. Jainism considers souls as pluralistic each in a karma-samsara cycle, and does not subscribe to \"Advaita\"-style (\"not two\") nondualism of Hinduism, or \"Advaya\"-style nondualism of Buddhism. A liberated soul in Jainism is one who has gone beyond \"Saṃsāra\", is at the apex, is omniscient, remains there eternally, and is known as a \"Siddha\".\n\nJain texts propound that the universe consists of many eternal \"lokas\" (\"realms of existence\"). As in Buddhism and Hinduism, Jain cosmology believes both time and the universe are eternal without beginning and end, and that the universe is transient (impermanent in attributes) at the same time. The universe, body, matter and time are considered in Jain philosophy as separate from the soul (\"jiva\" or \"jivatman\"). Their interaction explains life, living, death and rebirth.\nAccording to the Jain texts, the universe is divided into three parts, the upper, middle, and lower worlds, called respectively \"urdhva loka\", \"madhya loka\", and \"adho loka\". As with the realms of existences, \"Kāla\" (\"time\") is without beginning and eternal; the cosmic wheel of time, called \"kālachakra\", rotates ceaselessly. According to Jain texts, in this part of the universe, there are six periods of time within two aeons (\"ara\"), and in the first aeon the universe generates, and in the next it degenerates. Thus, the worldly cycle of time is divided into two parts or half-cycles, \"utsarpiṇī\" (\"ascending\") and \"avasarpiṇī\" (\"descending\"). \"Utsarpiṇī\" is a period of progressive prosperity, where happiness increases, while \"avasarpiṇī\" is a period of increasing sorrow and immorality. According to Jain cosmology, it is currently the fifth \"ara\" of \"avasarpiṇī\" (half time cycle of degeneration). The present age is one of sorrow and misery, of religious decline, where the height and shape of living beings shrink. Jain thought holds that after the sixth \"ara\", the universe will be reawakened in the new cycle and the start of \"utsarpiṇī\" \"aras\".\n\nAccording to Jain texts, sixty-three illustrious beings, called \"śalākāpuruṣas\", are born on this earth in every \"Dukhama-sukhamā\" \"ara\". The Jain universal history is a compilation of the deeds of these illustrious persons. They comprise twenty-four \"Tīrthaṅkaras\", twelve \"chakravartins\", nine \"balabhadra\", nine \"narayana\", and nine \"pratinarayana\".\n\nA \"chakravartī\" is an emperor of the world and lord of the material realm. Though he possesses worldly power, he often finds his ambitions dwarfed by the vastness of the cosmos. Jain \"puranas\" give a list of twelve \"chakravartins\" (\"universal monarchs\"). They are golden in complexion. One of the \"chakravartins\" mentioned in Jain scriptures is Bharata Chakravartin. Jain texts like \"Harivamsa Purana\" and Hindu Texts like \"Vishnu Purana\" state that Indian subcontinent came to be known as \"Bharata varsha\" in his memory.\n\nThere are nine sets of \"balabhadra\", \"narayana\", and \"pratinarayana\". The \"balabhadra\" and \"narayana\" are brothers. \"Balabhadra\" are nonviolent heroes, \"narayana\" are violent heroes, and \"pratinarayana\" the villains. According to the legends, the \"narayana\" ultimately kill the \"pratinarayana\". Of the nine \"balabhadra\", eight attain liberation and the last goes to heaven. On death, the \"narayana\" go to hell because of their violent exploits, even if these were intended to uphold righteousness.\n\nJain cosmology divides the worldly cycle of time into two parts (\"avasarpiṇī\" and \"utsarpiṇī\"). According to Jain belief, in every half-cycle of time, twenty-four \"tīrthaṅkaras\" are born in the human realm to discover and teach the Jain doctrine appropriate for that era. The word \"tīrthankara\" signifies the founder of a \"tirtha\", which means a fordable passage across a sea. The \"tīrthaṅkaras\" show the 'fordable path' across the sea of interminable births and deaths. Rishabhanatha is said to be the first \"tīrthankara\" of the present half-cycle (\"avasarpiṇī\"). Mahāvīra (6th century BC) is revered as the twenty fourth \"tīrthankara\" of \"avasarpiṇī\". Jain texts explain that Jainism has always existed and will always exist.\n\nIn Jainism, perfect souls \"with\" the body are called \"arihant\" (\"victors\") and perfect souls \"without\" the body are called \"Siddhas\" (\"liberated souls\").\n\nAccording to Jainism, the universe was never created, nor will it ever cease to exist. It is independent and self-sufficient, does not require a creator nor any superior power to govern it, nor a judge nor destroyer. In this belief, it is distinct from the monotheistic Abrahamic religions; it is similar to Buddhism. It shares premises with the non-theistic part of the spectrum of diverse beliefs found in different traditions within Hindu philosophy and distinct from theistic Hindu traditions.\n\nJain texts reject the idea of a creator, ruler or destroyer god and postulate an eternal universe. However, Jainism believes in the world of gods and hell beings who are born, and who die to be reborn like living beings in the earthly realm of existence. Those souls who live in the body of a god do so because of their positive karma. They have a metamorphic body, that is they are believed in Jain thought to be able to change their body at will. The gods live a life of happiness, fun and frolic, whose wishes are automatically fulfilled. They also possess a more transcendent knowledge about material things and can anticipate events in the human realms. However, once their past karmic merit is exhausted, the souls leave the \"god body\" and are reborn again as humans, animals or other beings.\n\nJain philosophy accepts three reliable means of knowledge (\"pramana\"). It holds that correct knowledge is based on perception (\"pratyaksa\"), inference (\"anumana\") and testimony (\"sabda\" or the word of scriptures). These ideas are elaborated in Jain texts such as \"Tattvarthasūtra\", \"Parvacanasara\", \"Nandi\" and \"Anuyogadvarini\". Some Jain texts add analogy (\"upamana\") as the fourth reliable means, in a manner similar to epistemological theories found in other Indian religions.\n\nIn Jainism, \"jnāna\" (\"knowledge\") is said to be of five kinds—\"Kevala Jnana\" (\"Omniscience\"), \"Śrutu Jñāna\" (\"Scriptural Knowledge\"), \"Mati Jñāna\" (\"Sensory Knowledge\"), \"Avadhi Jñāna\" (\"Clairvoyance\"), and \"Manah prayāya Jñāna\" (\"Telepathy\"). According to the Jain text \"Tattvartha sūtra\", the first two are indirect knowledge and the remaining three are direct knowledge.\n\nAccording to Jainism, purification of soul and liberation can be achieved through the path of three jewels:\n\nJain texts often add \"samyak tap\" (Correct Asceticism) as the fourth jewel, thereby emphasizing their belief in ascetic practices as the means to liberation (moksha). The four jewels of orthodox Jain ideology are called \"moksha marg\". According to Jain texts, the liberated pure soul (\"Siddha\") goes up to the summit of universe (\"Siddhashila\") and dwells there in eternal bliss.\n\nJain scriptures are called \"Agamas\". They are believed to have been verbally transmitted by the oral tradition from one generation to the next, much like the ancient Buddhist and Hindu texts. The Jain tradition believes that their religion is eternal, and the teachings of their first \"Tirthankara Rishabhanatha\" were their scriptures millions of years ago. The mythology states that the \"tirthankara\" taught in a divine preaching hall called \"samavasarana\", which were heard by the gods, the ascetics and laypersons. The discourse delivered is called \"Śhrut Jnāna\" and comprises eleven \"angas\" and fourteen \"purvas\". The discourse is remembered and transmitted by the \"Ganadharas\" (\"chief disciples\"), and is composed of twelve \"angas\" (\"departments\"). It is symbolically represented by a tree with twelve branches.\n\nAccording to the Jain tradition, an \"araha\" (\"worthy one\") speaks meaning that is then converted into \"sūtra\" (\"sutta\") by his disciples, and from such \"sūtras\" emerge the doctrine. The creation and transmission of the \"Agama\" is the work of disciples in Jainism. These texts, historically for Jains, have represented the truths uttered by their \"tirthankaras\", particularly the Mahāvīra. In every cycle of Jain cosmology, twenty-four \"tirthankaras\" appear and so do the Jain scriptures for that \"ara\". The spoken scriptural language is believed to be \"Ardhamagadhi\" by the Śvētāmbara Jains, and a form of sonic resonance by the Digambara Jains. These then become coded into \"duvala samgagani pidaga\" (twelve limbed baskets by disciples), but transmitted orally. In the 980th year after Mahāvīra's death (~5th century CE), the texts were written down for the first time by the Council of Valabhi.\n\nThe Śvētāmbaras believe that they have the original Jain scriptures. The Śvētāmbara belief is denied by the Digambaras, who instead believe the scriptures were lost. The Śvētāmbaras state that their collection of 45 works represent a continuous tradition, though they accept that their collection is also incomplete because of a lost Anga text and four lost Purva texts. The Digambara sect of Jainism believes that Āchārya Bhutabali was the last ascetic who had partial knowledge of the original canon. According to them, Digambara \"Āchāryas\" recreated the oldest-known Digambara Jain texts, including the four \"anuyoga\". According to von Glasenapp, the Digambara texts partially agree with the enumerations and works of older Śvētāmbara texts, but in many cases there are also gross differences between the texts of the two major Jain traditions.\n\nThe Śvētāmbara consider their 45 text collection as canonical. The Digambaras created a secondary canon between 600 and 900 CE, compiling it into four groups: history, cosmography, philosophy and ethics. This four-set collection is called the \"four \"Vedas\"\" by the Digambaras.\n\nThe most popular and influential texts of Jainism have been its non-canonical literature. Of these, the \"Kalpa Sūtras\" are particularly popular among Śvētāmbaras, which they attribute to Bhadrabahu (c. 300 BCE). This ancient scholar is revered in the Digambara tradition, and they believe he led their migration into the ancient south Karnataka region, and created their tradition. Śvētāmbaras disagree, and they believe that Bhadrabahu moved to Nepal, not into peninsular India. Both traditions, however, consider his \"Niryuktis\" and \"Samhitas\" as important texts. The earliest surviving Sanskrit text by Umaswati called the \"Tattvarthasūtra\" is considered authoritative Jain philosophy text by all traditions of Jainism. His text has the same importance in Jainism as \"Vedanta Sūtras\" and \"Yogasūtras\" have in Hinduism.\n\nIn the Digambara tradition, the texts written by Kundakunda are highly revered and have been historically influential. Other important Jain texts include: \"Samayasara\", \"Ratnakaranda śrāvakācāra\", and \"Niyamasara\".\n\nParts of the Sangam literature in Tamil are attributed to Jaina authors. The authenticity and interpolations are controversial, because the Sangam literature presents Hindu ideas. Some scholars state that the Jain portions of the Sangam literature were added about or after the 8th-century CE, and they are not the ancient layer.\n\nTamil Jain texts such as the \"Cīvaka Cintāmaṇi\" and \"Nālaṭiyār\" are credited to Digambara Jain authors. These texts have seen interpolations and revisions. For example, it is generally accepted now that the Jain nun Kanti inserted a 445-verse poem into \"Cīvaka Cintāmaṇi\" in the 12th century. The Tamil Jain literature, according to Dundas, has been \"lovingly studied and commented upon for centuries by Hindus as well as Jains\". The themes of two of the Tamil epics, including the \"Silapadikkaram\", have an embedded influence of Jainism.\n\nJain scholars also contributed to Kannada literature. The Digambara Jain texts in Karnataka are unusual, in that they were written under the patronage of kings and regional aristocrats. These Jain texts describe warrior violence and martial valor as equivalent to a \"fully committed Jain ascetic\". They thus set aside the religious premise of absolute non-violence, possibly reflecting an effort to syncretise various doctrines and beliefs found in Hinduism and Jainism.\n\nJain manuscript libraries, called \"bhandaras\" inside Jain temples, are the oldest surviving in India. Jain libraries, including the Śvētāmbara collections at Patan, Gujarat and Jaiselmer, Rajasthan, as well as the Digambara collections in Karnataka temples, have a large number of well-preserved manuscripts. The manuscripts in the Jain libraries include Jaina literature, as well as Hindu and Buddhist texts. Almost all their texts have been dated to about, or after, the 11th century CE. The largest and most valuable libraries are found in the Thar Desert, hidden in the underground vaults of Jain temples. These collections have witnessed insect damage, and only a small portion of these manuscripts have been published and studied by scholars.\n\nJainism differs from both Buddhism and Hinduism in its ontological premises. All of them believe in impermanence, but Buddhism incorporates, amongst other things, the premise of \"anatta\" (\"non-self\", \"no eternal self or soul\"). Hinduism incorporates the premise of an eternal unchanging \"atman\" (\"self\", \"soul\"), while Jainism incorporates the premises of a \"jiva\" (\"self\", \"soul\") that is both eternal and changing. In Jaina thought, there are infinite eternal \"jivas\", predominantly all of which are in their cycles of rebirth, and a few who have liberated themselves through an ascetic life and become \"siddhas\" (\"a perfect one\"). In contrast to Jainism, Hindu philosophies express a spectrum of views, ranging from nondualism where all souls are identical as Brahman and posited as interconnected one, to dualism where souls are same and have Brahman-nature but are different from Brahman, and to other ideas. Further, in Hindu thought, Jainism-style asceticism is not emphasized, rather liberation is achievable through alternate paths such as Jnana yoga, Karma yoga and Bhakti yoga.\n\nWhile both Hinduism and Jainism believe \"soul exists\" to be a self-evident truth, most Hindu systems consider it to be eternally present, infinite and the constant (\"vibhu\") but some Hindu scholars proposed soul to be atomic. The Hindu thought generally discusses Atman and Brahman through a monistic or dualistic framework. In contrast, the Jaina thought denies the Hindu metaphysical concept of Brahman, and Jain philosophy considers the soul to be ever changing and bound to the body or matter for each lifetime, thereby having a finite size that infuses the entire body of a living being.\n\nSome early colonial scholars stated that Jainism like Buddhism was, in part, a rejection of the caste system in Hinduism. Later scholars, such as Gombrich state that this notion is an error for which \"mainly Western authors are responsible\". A caste system has been a historic part of Jain society. According to Vilas Adinath Sangave, \"caste system is a universal feature of the Jaina community\", and the focus of Jainism has been the spiritual liberation of the individual rather than social reforms. According to Padamnath Jaini, the 8th-century Digambara scholar Jinasena stated that Jain king Bharata, the son of first \"tirthankara\" named Rishabhanatha, invented the caste system by performing the \"ahiṃsā\" (non-violence) test, with Jain Brahmins being those who followed the non-violence precept.\n\nAll three religions share concepts and doctrines such as karma and rebirth, and have similar ritual festival grammar, mythologies and monastic traditions. They do not believe in eternal heaven or hell or judgment day. Jainism, like Buddhism and Hinduism, grants the freedom to choose beliefs such as in gods or no-gods, agree or disagree with core teachings, participate or not participate in prayers, rituals and festivals. They all consider ethical values such as non-violence to be important, and link suffering to craving, individual's actions, intents and karma, and believe spirituality is a means to enlightened peace, bliss and eternal liberation (\"moksha\").\n\nJainism is similar to Buddhism in epistemically rejecting the Vedas and the Hindu metaphysical concept for Reality called Brahman. Jainism and Hinduism, however, both believe \"soul exists\" as a self-evident truth, and in their historic theology and practice have been more similar than with Buddhism. Jains and Hindus have frequently intermarried over their history, particularly in northern, central and western regions of India.\n\nJainism has contributed significantly to Indian art and architecture. Jain arts depict life legends of \"tirthankara\" or other important people, particularly with them in a seated or standing meditative posture. \"Yakshas\" and \"yakshinis\", attendant spirits who guard the \"tirthankara\", are usually shown with them. The earliest known Jain image is in the Patna museum. It is dated approximately to the 3rd century BCE. Bronze images of Pārśva can be seen in the Prince of Wales Museum, Mumbai, and in the Patna museum; these are dated to the 2nd century BCE.\n\"Ayagapata\" is a type of votive tablet used in Jainism for donation and worship in the early centuries. These tablets are decorated with objects and designs central to Jain worship such as the \"stupa\", \"dharmacakra\" and \"triratna\". They present simultaneous trends or image and symbol worship. Numerous such stone tablets were discovered during excavations at ancient Jain sites like Kankali Tila near Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, India. The practice of donating these tablets is documented from 1st century BCE to 3rd century CE.\n\n\"Samavasarana\", a preaching hall of \"tirthankaras\" with various beings concentrically placed, is an important theme of Jain art.\n\nThe Jain tower in Chittor, Rajasthan, is a good example of Jain architecture. Decorated manuscripts are preserved in Jain libraries, containing diagrams from Jain cosmology. Most of the paintings and illustrations depict historical events, known as \"Panch Kalyanaka\", from the life of the \"tirthankara\". Rishabha, the first \"tirthankara\", is usually depicted in either the lotus position or \"kayotsarga\", the standing position. He is distinguished from other \"tirthankara\" by the long locks of hair falling to his shoulders. Bull images also appear in his sculptures. In paintings, incidents from his life, like his marriage and Indra marking his forehead, are depicted. Other paintings show him presenting a pottery bowl to his followers; he is also seen painting a house, weaving, and being visited by his mother Marudevi. Each of the twenty-four \"tirthankara\" is associated with distinctive emblems, which are listed in such texts as \"Tiloyapannati\", \"Kahavaali\" and \"Pravacanasaarodhara\".\n\nA Jain temple, \"Derasar\" or \"Basadi\" is a place of worship for Jains. Jain temples are built with various architectural designs, but there are mainly two type of Jain temples:\n\nThere is always a main deity also known as \"moolnayak\" in every Jain temple placed inside a sanctum called \"\"Gambhara\"\" (Garbha Griha). A \"manastambha\" (\"column of honor\") is a pillar that is often constructed in front of Jain temples.\n\nThere are 26 caves, 200 stone beds, 60 inscriptions, and over 100 sculptures in and around Madurai. This is also the site where Jain ascetics wrote great epics and books on grammar in Tamil.\n\nAncient Jain monuments include the Udaigiri Hills near Bhelsa (Vidisha) in Madhya Pradesh, the Ellora in Maharashtra, the Palitana temples in Gujarat, and the Jain temples at Dilwara Temples near Mount Abu, Rajasthan. Chaumukha temple in Ranakpur is considered one of the most beautiful Jain temples and is famous for its detailed carvings. According to Jain texts, Shikharji is the place where twenty of the twenty-four Jain \"Tīrthaṅkaras\" along with many other monks attained \"moksha\" (died without being reborn, with their soul in \"Siddhashila\"). The Shikharji site in northeastern Jharkhand is therefore a revered pilgrimage site. The Palitana temples are the holiest shrine for the Śvētāmbara Murtipujaka sect. Along with Shikharji the two sites are considered the holiest of all pilgrimage sites by the Jain community.\n\nThe Jain complex, Khajuraho and Jain Narayana temple are part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Shravanabelagola, Saavira Kambada Basadi or \"1000 pillars\" and Brahma Jinalaya are important Jain centers in Karnataka.\n\nThe Udayagiri and Khandagiri Caves dating back to the 2nd–1st century BCE are dedicated to Jainism. They are rich with carvings of Jain \"tirthanakars\" and deities with inscriptions including the \"Hathigumpha\" inscription (\"Elephant Cave\" inscription). Jain cave temples at Badami, Mangi-Tungi and the Ellora Caves are considered important.\n\nThe Sittanavasal Cave temple is regarded as one of the finest examples of Jain art. It is the oldest and most famous Jain centre in the region. It possesses both an early Jain cave shelter, and a medieval rock-cut temple with excellent fresco paintings comparable to Ajantha paintings; the steep hill contains an isolated but spacious cavern. Locally, this cavern is known as \"Eladipattam\", a name that is derived from the seven holes cut into the rock that serve as steps leading to the shelter. Within the cave there are seventeen stone beds aligned in rows; each of these has a raised portion that could have served as a pillow-loft. The largest stone bed has a distinct Tamil-Brahmi inscription assignable to the 2nd century BCE, and some inscriptions belonging to the 8th century BCE are also found on the nearby beds. The Sittannavasal cavern continued to be the Holy Sramana Abode until the 7th and 8th centuries. Inscriptions over the remaining stone beds name mendicants such as Tol kunrattu Kadavulan, Tirunilan, Tiruppuranan, Tittaicharanan, Sri Purrnacandran, Thiruchatthan, Ilangowthaman, Sri Ulagathithan, and Nityakaran Pattakali as monks.\nThe 8th century Kazhugumalai temple marks the revival of Jainism in South India.\n\nJain \"Tirtha\" (\"pilgrim\") sites are divided into the following categories:\n\nOutside contemporary India, Jain communities built temples in locations such as Nagarparkar, Sindh (Pakistan). However, according to a UNESCO tentative world heritage site application, Nagarparkar was not a \"major religious centre or a place of pilgrimage\" for Jainism, but it was once an important cultural landscape before \"the last remaining Jain community left the area in 1947 at Partition\".\n\nJain sculptures are mainly images depicting \"tīrthaṅkaras\". A sculpture could depict any of the twenty-four \"tīrthaṅkarass\" images. Parshvanatha, Rishabhanatha and Mahāvīra are among the more popular. These \"tīrthaṅkaras\" usually depicted in the lotus position or \"kayotsarga\". Sculptures of \"chaumukha\" (\"quadruple\") images are also popular in Jainism. Sculptures of Arihant, Bahubali, and protector deities like Ambika are also found. \"Tirthanakar\" idols look similar and are differentiated by the symbol belonging to each \"tirthanakar\" except Parshvanatha. Statues of Parshvanath have a snake crown on head. There are a few differences between the Digambara and the Śvētāmbara depictions of idols. Digambara images are naked without any beautification, whereas Śvētāmbara depictions are clothed and decorated with temporary ornaments.\n\nA monolithic, statue of Bahubali, referred to as \"Gommateshvara\", built in 981 CE by the Ganga minister and commander Chavundaraya, is situated on a hilltop in Shravanabelagola in the Hassan district of Karnataka state. This statue was voted first in the SMS poll Seven Wonders of India conducted by \"The Times of India\". The Statue of Ahiṃsā (depicting Rishabhanatha) was erected in the Nashik district in 2015; it is tall. Idols made from \"Ashtadhatu\" (literally \"eight metals\"), Akota Bronze, brass, gold, silver, stone monoliths, rock cut, and precious stones are popular in Jainism.\n\nA large number of \"ayagapata\", votive tablets for offerings and the worship of \"tīrthankara\", were excavated from Kankali Tila, Mathura. These sculptures date from the 2nd century BCE to the 12th century CE.\n\nJain icons and arts incorporate symbols such as swastika, om, and the \"Ashtamangala\".\n\nThe swastika is an important Jain symbol. Its four arms symbolise the four realms of existence in which rebirth occurs according to Jainism: humans, heavenly beings, hellish beings and non-humans (plants and animals). This is conceptually similar to the six realms of rebirth represented by \"bhavachakra\" in Buddhism. It is usually shown with three dots on the top, which represent the three jewels mentioned in ancient texts such as \"Tattvartha sūtra\" and \"Uttaradhyayana sūtra\": correct faith, correct understanding and correct conduct. These jewels are the means believed in Jainism to lead one to the state of spiritual perfection, a state that is symbolically represented by a crescent and one dot on top representing the liberated soul.\n\nThe hand with a wheel on the palm symbolizes \"ahimsā\" in Jainism with \"ahiṃsā\" written in the middle. The wheel represents the \"dharmachakra\" (\"Wheel of the Dharma\"), which stands for the resolve to halt the \"saṃsāra\" (\"wandering\") through the relentless pursuit of \"ahimsā\" (\"compassion\").\n\nIn Jainism, \"Om\" is considered a condensed form of reference to the \"Pañca-Parameṣṭhi\", by their initials \"A+A+A+U+M\" (\"\"). According to the \"Dravyasamgraha\" by Acharya Nemicandra, \"AAAUM\" (or just \"Om\") is a one syllable short form of the initials of the five parameshthis: \"\"Arihant\", \"Ashiri\", \"Acharya\", \"Upajjhaya\", \"Muni\"\". The \"Om\" symbol is also used in ancient Jain scriptures to represent the five lines of the \"Ṇamōkāra\" Mantra.\n\nIn 1974, on the 2500th anniversary of the nirvana of Mahāvīra, the Jain community chose one image as an emblem to be the main identifying symbol for Jainism. The overall shape depicts the three \"loka\" (\"realms of rebirth\") of Jain cosmology i.e., heaven, human world and hell. The semi-circular topmost portion symbolizes \"Siddhashila\", which is a zone beyond the three realms. The Jain swastika is present in the top portion, and the symbol of \"Ahiṃsā\" in the lower portion. At the bottom of the emblem is the Jain mantra, \"Parasparopagraho Jīvānām\". According to Vilas Sangave, the mantra means \"all life is bound together by mutual support and interdependence\". According to Anne Vallely, this mantra is from sūtra 5.21 of Umaswati's \"Tattvarthasūtra\", and it means \"souls render service to one another\".\n\nThe five colours of the Jain flag represent the \"Pañca-Parameṣṭhi\" and the five vows, small as well as great:\n\nThe \"Ashtamangala\" are a set of eight auspicious symbols, which are different in the Digambara and Śvētāmbar traditions.\n\nIn the Digambara tradition, the eight auspicious symbols are Chatra, \"Dhvaja\", \"Kalasha\", Chaamara, Mirror, Chair, Hand fan and Vessel. In the Śvētāmbar tradition, these are Swastika, \"Srivatsa\", \"Nandavarta\", \"Vardhmanaka\" (\"food vessel\"), \"Bhadrasana\" (\"seat\"), \"Kalasha\" (\"pot\"), \"Darpan\" (\"mirror\") and pair of fish.\n\nThe origins of Jainism are obscure. The Jains claim their religion to be eternal, and consider Rishabhanatha to be the founder in the present time-cycle, the first of 24 Jain \"tirthankaras\" in Jain belief, and someone who lived for 8,400,000 purva years. According to one hypothesis, such as one by Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the first vice president of India, Jainism was in existence before the Vedas were composed. According to historians, the first 22 of the 24 \"tirthankaras\" were mythical figures. These figures were supposed to have lived more than 85,000 years ago. They were five to hundred times taller than average human beings and lived for thousands of years. The 23rd \"tirthankara\", Parshvanatha, is generally accepted to be based on an ancient historic human being of uncertain dates, possibly 8th–7th century BCE.\n\nSome confessional Jain scholars such as Parikh have argued that some images such as those of the bull in Indus Valley Civilization seal may be related to Jainism, but such claims are highly speculative and a subjective interpretation. This theory has not been accepted by most scholars because very little is known about the Indus Valley iconography and script. Jainism, like Buddhism, is one of the \"Sramana\" traditions of ancient India, those that rejected the Vedas and developed their own scriptures.\n\nThere is inscriptional evidence for the presence of Jain monks in south India by the second or first centuries BC, and archaeological evidence of Jain monks in Saurashtra in Gujarat by the second century CE. Statues of Jain \"tirthankara\" have been found dating back to second century BC.\n\nInformation regarding the political history of Jainism is uncertain and fragmentary. Jains consider the king Bimbisara (c. 558–491 BCE), Ajatashatru (c. 492–460 BCE), and Udayin (c. 460-440 BCE) of the Haryanka dynasty as a patron of Jainism.\n\nJain tradition states that Chandragupta Maurya (322–298 BCE), the founder of the Mauryan Empire and grandfather of Ashoka, became a monk and disciple of Jain ascetic Bhadrabahu during later part of his life. According to historians, Chandragupta's story appears in various versions in Buddhist, Jain, and Hindu texts. Broadly, Chandragupta was born into a humble family, abandoned, raised as a son by another family, then with the training and counsel of Chanakya of \"Arthashastra\" fame ultimately built one of the largest empires in ancient India. According to Jain history, late in his life, Chandragupta renounced the empire he built and handed over his power to his son, became a Jaina monk, and headed to meditate and pursue spirituality in the Deccan region, under the Jaina teacher Bhadrabahu at Shravanabelagola. There state Jain texts, he died by fasting, a Jaina ascetic method of ending one's life by choice (\"Sallenkana vrata\"). The 3rd century BCE emperor Ashoka, in his pillar edicts, mentions several ancient Indian religious groups including the \"Niganthas\" (Jaina).\n\nAccording to another Jain legend, King Salivahana of the late 1st century CE was a patron of Jainism, as were many others in the early centuries of the 1st millennium CE. But von Glasenapp states that the historicity of these stories is difficult to establish. Archeological evidence suggests that Mathura was an important Jain centre between the 2nd century BCE and the 5th century CE. Inscriptions from the 1st and 2nd century CE show that the schism between Digambara and Śvētāmbara had already taken place.\n\nKing Harshavardhana of the 7th century grew up in Shaivism, following his family, but he championed Jainism, Buddhism and all traditions of Hinduism. King Ama of the 8th century converted to Jainism, and the Jaina pilgrimage tradition was well established in his era. Mularaja, the founder of Chalukya dynasty, constructed a Jain temple, even though he was not a Jain.\n\nIn the second half of the 1st century CE, Hindu kings sponsored and helped build major Jaina cave temples. For example, the Hindu Rashtrakuta dynasty started the early group of Jain temples, and the Yadava dynasty built many of the middle and later Jain group of temples at the Ellora Caves between 700 and 1000 CE.\n\nMahāvīra and Buddha are generally accepted as contemporaries (circa 5th century BCE). The interaction between Jainism and Buddhism began with the Buddha. Buddhist texts refer to Mahāvīra as \"Nigantha Nataputta\".\n\nBeyond the times of the Mahāvīra and the Buddha, the two ascetic \"sramana\" (\"seeker\") religions competed for followers as well as the merchant trade networks that sustained them. Their mutual interaction, along with those of Hindu traditions, have been significant. In some cases the titles of the Buddhist and Jaina texts are the same or similar but present different doctrines.\n\nRoyal patronage has been a key factor in the growth as well as the decline of Jainism. The Pallava King Mahendravarman I (600630 CE) converted from Jainism to Shaivism under the influence of Appar. His work \"Mattavilasa Prahasana\" ridicules certain Shaiva sects and the Buddhists and also expresses contempt towards Jain ascetics. Sambandar converted the contemporary Pandya king to Shaivism. During the 11th century, Basava, a minister to the Jain Kalachuri king Bijjala, succeeded in converting numerous Jains to the Lingayat Shaivite sect. The Lingayats destroyed various temples belonging to Jains and adapted them to their use. The Hoysala King Vishnuvardhana (c.11081152 CE) became a follower of the Vaishnava sect under the influence of Ramanuja, after which Vaishnavism grew rapidly in what is now Karnataka.\nJainism and Hinduism influenced each other. Jain texts declare some of the Hindu gods as blood relatives of legendary \"tirthankara\". Neminatha, the 22nd \"tirthankara\" for example is presented as a cousin of Krishna in Jain Puranas and other texts. However, Jain scholars such as Haribhadra also wrote satires about Hindu gods, mocking them with novel outrageous stories where the gods misbehave and act unethically. The Hindu gods are presented by some Jain writers as persecuting, tempting, afraid of, or serving a legendary Jina before he gains omniscience. In other stories, one or more Jinas easily defeat the Hindu deities such as Vishnu, or Rama and Sita who come to pay respect to a Jina at a major Jain pilgrimage site such as Mount Satrunjaya.\n\nThe Jain and Hindu communities have often been very close and mutually accepting. Some Hindu temples have included a Jain \"Tirthankara\" within its premises in a place of honour. Similarly numerous temple complexes feature both Hindu and Jain monuments, with Badami cave temples and Khajuraho among some of the most well known.\nJainism faced persecution during and after the Muslim conquests on the Indian subcontinent. Muslims rulers, such as Mahmud Ghazni (1001), Mohammad Ghori (1175) and Ala-ud-din Muhammed Shah Khalji (1298) further oppressed the Jain community. They vandalised idols and destroyed temples or converted them into mosques. They also burned Jain books and killed Jains. There were significant exceptions, such as Emperor Akbar (15421605) whose legendary religious tolerance, out of respect for Jains, ordered the release of caged birds and banned the killing of animals on the Jain festival of Paryusan. After Akbar, Jains faced an intense period of Muslim persecution in the 17th century.\n\nThe Jain community were the traditional bankers and financiers, and this significantly impacted the Muslim rulers. However, they rarely were a part of the political power during the Islamic rule period of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nColonial era reports and Christian missions variously viewed Jainism as either a sect of Hinduism or Buddhism, or as a distinct religion. According to Padmanath Jaini, Christian missionaries expressed extreme frustration at Jain people without pagan creator gods refusing to convert to Christianity, while colonial era Jain scholars such as Champat Rai Jain defended Jainism against criticism and misrepresentation by Christian activists. Missionaries of Christianity and Islam considered Jain traditions as idolatrous and a false religion, characterizing Jain temples and icons, such of those of Jina, as false idols and superstitious practices. These criticisms, states John Cort, were flawed and also ignored similar practices within sects of Christianity.\n\nThe British colonial government in India, as well as Indian princely states, passed laws that made monks roaming naked in streets a crime, one that led to arrest. This law particularly impacted the Digambara monks. The Akhil Bharatiya Jaina Samaj opposed this law, and argued that it interfered with the religious rights of Jains. Acharya Shantisagar entered Bombay (now Mumbai) in 1927, but was forced to cover his body. He then led an India-wide tour as the naked monk with his followers, to various Digambara sacred sites, and was welcomed by kings of the Maharashtra provinces. Shantisagar fasted to oppose the restrictions imposed on Digambara monks by the British Raj and prompted their discontinuance. The colonial era laws that banned naked monks remained effective through World War II, but they were abolished by independent India after it gained independence.\n\nFollowers of the path practised by the Jinas are known as Jains. The majority of Jains currently reside in India. With four to five million followers worldwide, Jainism is relatively small compared to major world religions. Jains form 0.37% of India's population. Most of them are concentrated in the states of Maharashtra (1.4 million in 2011, 31.46% of Indian Jains), Rajasthan (13.97%), Gujarat (13.02%) and Madhya Pradesh (12.74%). Karnataka (9.89%), Uttar Pradesh (4.79%), Delhi (3.73%) and Tamil Nadu (2.01%) also have significant Jain populations. Outside India, Jain communities can be found in Europe, the United States, Canada, Australia and Kenya.\n\nAccording to the National Family and Health Survey (NFHS-4) conducted in 2015-16, Jains form the wealthiest community in India. Jains have the highest literacy rate (87%) in India, in the 7-years to oldest age group, according to its 2011 census. The Jaina community also has the highest number of college graduates. Excluding the retired senior citizens, Jain literacy rate in India exceeded 97%. The female to male child sex ratio in the 0-6 year age was second lowest for Jains (870 girls per 1,000 boys), higher than Sikhs in India. Further, Jain males have the highest work participation rates, while Jain females have the lowest work participation rates in India.\n\nMajor Jain communities:\n\n\nJainism has been praised for some of its practices and beliefs.\nMahatma Gandhi, who was greatly influenced by Jainism, said:\n\n"}
{"id": "45657073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45657073", "title": "Job control (workplace)", "text": "Job control (workplace)\n\nJob control is a person's ability to influence what happens in his or her work environment, in particular to influence matters that are relevant to his or her personal goals. Job control may include control over work tasks, control over the work pace and physical movement, control over the social and technical environment, and freedom from supervision.\n\nWorkplace autonomy has been seen as a specialized form of the more general concept of control. Workplace autonomy is the freedom of a person to determine what he or she does at work, and how.\n\nFor Georges Friedmann, the quality of work depends on the employees' skills and on their capacity to control decision-making at work.\n\nRobert Blauner found that job control is closely linked with occupational prestige and job satisfaction. Job satisfaction and job control tend to be higher for managerial and professional workers than for unskilled workers.\n\nA meta-analysis of 1986 found an association of high levels of perceived control with \"high levels of job satisfaction […], commitment, involvement, performance and motivation, and low levels of physical symptoms, emotional distress, role stress, absenteeism, intent to turnover, and turnover\". Similarly, within the job demands–resources model it is assumed that resources such as job control counterbalance job strain and to contribute to motivation. In support of this approach, results of a 2003 study suggest that \"as job demands increase, high job control is needed to limit fatigue, whereas either high job control or high job social support is needed to enhance intrinsic work motivation\".\n\nIncreasing job control is an intervention shown to help counteract exhaustion and cynicism in the workplace, which are two symptoms of occupational burnout.\n\nJob control has also been linked to the \"meaningfulness\" and the \"manageability\" components of salutogenesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "376777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376777", "title": "Larzac", "text": "Larzac\n\nThe Causse du Larzac is a limestone karst plateau in the south of the Massif Central, France, situated between Millau (Aveyron) and Lodève (Hérault). It is an agricultural area, where sheep produce milk for Roquefort cheese.\n\nThe communes of the Larzac are:\n\nThe Larzac is served by junctions 46 to 51 of the A75 autoroute.\n\nIn October 1970, Michel Debré, the French Minister of Defense, decided for strategic purposes to expand a military camp outside the village of La Cavalerie in the French \"département\" of Aveyron, from 30 km² to 170 km², without consulting the local population. Local farmers objected and decided to fight against the project, through actions such as occupation of empty farms purchased by the Army in anticipation of this expansion. French syndicalist and peasant activist José Bové moved there during this period in support of the protests. Communards from the nearby Community of the Ark, led by the pacifist Lanza del Vasto, were also very active in opposition to the camp. The workers of the occupied and self-managed Lip factory also took part in the movement.\n\nFollowing ten years of nonviolent resistance, the plan was cancelled by President François Mitterrand after his election in 1981.\n\nBecause of its history it was chosen as the site of a massive meeting against the World Trade Organization which took place in August 2003. José Bové currently resides in Larzac - he secured nearly 500,000 votes in the 2007 presidential elections.\n\nFive medieval fortified villages, related to the Knights Templar and the Knights Hospitaller are located on the Larzac plateau: \n"}
{"id": "289843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289843", "title": "Lesser of two evils principle", "text": "Lesser of two evils principle\n\nThe lesser of two evils principle (or lesser evil principle and lesser-evilism) is the principle that when faced with selecting from two immoral options, the one which is least immoral should be chosen.\n\nIn 2012, \"Huffington Post\" columnist Sanford Jay Rosen stated that the idea became a common practice for left-leaning voters in the United States due to their overwhelming disapproval of the United States government's support for the Vietnam War. Rosen stated: \"Beginning with the 1968 presidential election, I often have heard from liberals that they could not vote for the lesser of two evils. Some said they would not vote; some said they would vote for a third party candidate. That mantra delivered us to Richard Nixon in 1972 until Watergate did him in. And it delivered us to George W. Bush and Dick Cheney in 2000 until they were termed out in 2009\". Opponents of the modern usage of these terms in reference to electoral politics include revolutionaries who oppose the existing system as a whole as well as political moderates who advocate that third parties be given greater exposure in that system. For a particular voter in an election with more than two candidates, if the voter believes the most preferred candidate cannot win, the voter may be tempted to vote for the most favored viable candidate as a necessary evil or the lesser of two evils.\n\nSupporters of lesser-evil tactics in the United States often cite United States politician Ralph Nader's presidential campaigns as examples of what can happen when a third-party candidate receives a significant number of votes. They claim that the mere existence of the third-party candidate essentially steals votes (\"tilts\" or \"tips the scales\") from the more progressive of the two main candidates and puts the election in favor of the \"worse\" candidate—because the small percentage that goes towards the third party candidate is a part \"wasted\" that could have instead gone to the lesser-evil candidate. For example, as the Green Party candidate in 2000, Nader garnered 2.7% of the popular vote and as a result is considered by some Democrats to have tipped the election to Bush. One counterargument is that Nader's candidacy likely increased turnout among liberals and that Al Gore took four of the five states—and thirty of the fifty-five electoral college votes—in which the outcome was decided by less than one percent of the vote. Others argue that supporters of Nader and other third party candidates draw from voters who would not vote for either Democrats or Republicans.\n\nIn the 2016 United States presidential election, both major candidates of the major parties—Hillary Clinton (D) and Donald Trump (R)—had a disapproval rating close to 60% by August 31, 2016. Green Party candidate Jill Stein invoked this idea in her campaign in her slogan \"Don't vote for the lesser evil, fight for the greater good\". \n\nIn elections between only two candidates where one is mildly unpopular and the other immensely unpopular, opponents of both candidates frequently advocate a vote for the mildly unpopular candidate. For example, in the second round of the 2002 French presidential election graffiti in Paris told people to \"vote for the crook, not the fascist\". The \"crook\" in those scribbled public messages was Jacques Chirac of Rally for the Republic and the \"fascist\" was Jean-Marie Le Pen of the National Front. Chirac eventually won the second round having garnered 82% of the vote.\n\nIn the 2017 Hong Kong Chief Executive election, the \"lesser evil\" debate rose within the pro-democracy camp as the pro-democrats did not field any candidate in order to make use of their votes in the Beijing-dominated Election Committee to boost the chance for an alternative establishment candidate. Some pro-democrats inclined to support John Tsang, a relatively moderate pro-establishment candidate to prevent a perceived hardliner Carrie Lam from winning. Radical pro-democracy legislator Leung Kwok-hung refuted the \"lesser evil\" strategy, thinking it would cost the pro-democrats' moral high ground and announced his own candidacy in order to persuade the pro-democrat electors from voting for Tsang.\n\n\"Between Scylla and Charybdis\" is an idiom derived from Homer's \"Odyssey\". In the story, Odysseus chose to go near Scylla as the lesser of two evils. He lost six of his companions, but if he had gone near Charybdis all would be doomed. Because of such stories, having to navigate between the two hazards eventually entered idiomatic use. Another equivalent English seafaring phrase is \"Between a rock and a hard place\". The Latin line \"incidit in scyllam cupiens vitare charybdim\" (\"he runs into Scylla, wishing to avoid Charybdis\") had earlier become proverbial, with a meaning much the same as jumping from the frying pan into the fire. Erasmus recorded it as an ancient proverb in his \"Adagia\", although the earliest known instance is in the \"Alexandreis\", a 12th-century Latin epic poem by Walter of Châtillon.\n\n"}
{"id": "21252759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21252759", "title": "Line coordinates", "text": "Line coordinates\n\nIn geometry, line coordinates are used to specify the position of a line just as point coordinates (or simply coordinates) are used to specify the position of a point.\n\nThere are several possible ways to specify the position of a line in the plane. A simple way is by the pair where the equation of the line is \"y\" = \"mx\" + \"b\". Here \"m\" is the slope and \"b\" is the \"y\"-intercept. This system specifies coordinates for all lines that are not vertical. However, it is more common and simpler algebraically to use coordinates where the equation of the line is \"lx\" + \"my\" + 1 = 0. This system specifies coordinates for all lines except those that pass through the origin. The geometrical interpretations of \"l\" and \"m\" are the negative reciprocals of the \"x\" and \"y\"-intercept respectively.\n\nThe exclusion of lines passing through the origin can be resolved by using a system of three coordinates to specify the line in which the equation, \"lx\" + \"my\" + \"n\" = 0. Here \"l\" and \"m\" may not both be 0. In this equation, only the ratios between \"l\", \"m\" and \"n\" are significant, in other words if the coordinates are multiplied by a non-zero scalar then line represented remains the same. So is a system of homogeneous coordinates for the line.\n\nIf points in the real projective plane are represented by homogeneous coordinates , the equation of the line is \"lx\" + \"my\" + \"nz\" = 0, provided In particular, line coordinate represents the line \"z\" = 0, which is the line at infinity in the projective plane. Line coordinates and represent the \"x\" and \"y\"-axes respectively.\n\nJust as \"f\"(\"x\", \"y\") = 0 can represent a curve as a subset of the points in the plane, the equation φ(\"l\", \"m\") = 0 represents a subset of the lines on the plane. The set of lines on the plane may, in an abstract sense, be thought of as the set of points in a projective plane, the dual of the original plane. The equation φ(\"l\", \"m\") = 0 then represents a curve in the dual plane. \n\nFor a curve \"f\"(\"x\", \"y\") = 0 in the plane, the tangents to the curve form a curve in the dual space called the dual curve. If φ(\"l\", \"m\") = 0 is the equation of the dual curve, then it is called the tangential equation, for the original curve. A given equation φ(\"l\", \"m\") = 0 represents a curve in the original plane determined as the envelope of the lines that satisfy this equation. Similarly, if φ(\"l\", \"m\", \"n\") is a homogeneous function then φ(\"l\", \"m\", \"n\") = 0 represents a curve in the dual space given in homogeneous coordinates, and may be called the homogeneous tangential equation of the enveloped curve.\n\nTangential equations are useful in the study of curves defined as envelopes, just as Cartesian equations are useful in the study of curves defined as loci.\n\nA linear equation in line coordinates has the form \"al\" + \"bm\" + \"c\" = 0, where \"a\", \"b\" and \"c\" are constants. Suppose (\"l\", \"m\") is a line that satisfies this equation. If \"c\" is not 0 then \"lx\" + \"my\" + 1 = 0, where \"x\" = \"a\"/\"c\" and \"y\" = \"b\"/\"c\", so every line satisfying the original equation passes though the point (\"x\", \"y\"). Conversely, any line through (\"x\", \"y\") satisfies the original equation, so \"al\" + \"bm\" + \"c\" = 0 is the equation of set of lines through (\"x\", \"y\"). For a given point (\"x\", \"y\"), the equation of the set of lines though it is \"lx\" + \"my\" + 1 = 0, so this may be defined as the tangential equation of the point. Similarly, for a point (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\") given in homogeneous coordinates, the equation of the point in homogeneous tangential coordinates is \"lx\" + \"my\" + \"nz\" = 0.\n\nThe intersection of the lines (\"l\", \"m\") and (\"l\", \"m\") is the solution to the linear equations \n\nBy Cramer's rule, the solution is\n\nThe lines (\"l\", \"m\"), (\"l\", \"m\"), and (\"l\", \"m\") are concurrent when the determinant\n\nFor homogeneous coordinates, the intersection of the lines (\"l\", \"m\", \"n\") and (\"l\", \"m\", \"n\") is\n\nThe lines (\"l\", \"m\", \"n\"), (\"l\", \"m\", \"n\") and (\"l\", \"m\", \"n\") are concurrent when the determinant\n\nDually, the coordinates of the line containing (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\") and (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\") are\n\nFor two given points in the real projective plane, (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\") and (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\"), the three determinants\n\ndetermine the projective line containing them.\n\nSimilarly, for two points in RP, (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\", \"w\") and (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\", \"w\"), the line containing them is determined by the six determinants \n\nThis is the basis for a system of homogeneous line coordinates in three-dimensional space called \"Plücker coordinates\". Six numbers in a set of coordinates only represent a line when they satisfy an additional equation. This system maps the space of lines in three-dimensional space to projective space RP, but with the additional requirement the space of lines corresponds to the Klein quadric, which is a manifold of dimension four.\n\nMore generally, the lines in \"n\"-dimensional projective space are determined by a system of \"n\"(\"n\" − 1)/2 homogeneous coordinates that satisfy a set of (\"n\" − 2)(\"n\" − 3)/2 conditions, resulting in a manifold of dimension 2(\"n\" − 1).\n\nIsaak Yaglom has shown how dual numbers provide coordinates for oriented lines in the Euclidean plane, and split-complex numbers form line coordinates for the hyperbolic plane. The coordinates depend on the presence of an origin and reference line on it. Then, given an arbitrary line its coordinates are found from the intersection with the reference line. The distance \"s\" from the origin to the intersection and the angle θ of inclination between the two lines are used:\n\nSince there are lines ultraparallel to the reference line in the Lobachevski plane, they need coordinates too: There is a unique common perpendicular, say \"s\" is the distance from the origin to this perpendicular, and \"d\" is the length of the segment between reference and the given line.\n\nThe motions of the line geometry are described with linear fractional transformations on the appropriate complex planes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31178109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31178109", "title": "Logarithmically concave sequence", "text": "Logarithmically concave sequence\n\nIn mathematics, a sequence = of nonnegative real numbers is called a logarithmically concave sequence, or a log-concave sequence for short, if holds for .\n\nRemark: some authors (explicitly or not) add two further hypotheses in the definition of log-concave sequences:\nThese hypotheses mirror the ones required for log-concave functions.\n\nSequences that fulfill the three conditions are also called Pòlya Frequency sequences of order 2 (PF sequences). Refer to chapter 2 of for a discussion on the two notions. \nFor instance, the sequence checks the concavity inequalities but not the internal zeros condition.\n\nExamples of log-concave sequences are given by the binomial coefficients along any row of Pascal's triangle and the elementary symmetric means of a finite sequence of real numbers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54905700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54905700", "title": "Martin Beddoe", "text": "Martin Beddoe\n\nHis Honour Judge Martin William Denton Beddoe (born 7 July 1955) is a British judge known for having presided over many high-profile criminal cases. He is a former Crown Court Recorder, member of the Parole Board of England and Wales and a tutor judge of the Judicial College. In March 2013 he was one of the judges appointed to hear an inquest into the death of Olaseni Lewis.\n\nBeddoe came from a military family. He was born in Abyad, Egypt, where his father, World War II veteran Lieutenant Colonel Arthur Beddoe was serving at the time of his birth. His father had a very distinguished military career and before his posting to Egypt was an infantry battalion commanding officer in Welsh Regiment during the Second World War. Judge Beddoe takes pride in his Welsh heritage.\n\nBeddoe was educated at Tonbridge School and Peterhouse, Cambridge. He was called to the bar as a member of Gray's Inn in 1979 and thereafter practised as a barrister at 36 Bedford Row chambers where he practised from 1980 specialising in prosecution work, including prosecution of several cases of fraud, tax evasion, organised crime and murder, until 2005, when he was appointed Standing Counsel to the Revenue and Customs Prosecutions Office. He served in that capacity until December 2007, when he was appointed circuit judge.\n\nBeddoe served as a Standing Counsel to the Revenue and Customs Prosecutions Office for 3 years, until December 2007, dealing with numerous high level drug importations and diversion cases, including some of the largest fraud prosecutions in the country such as the largest diversion fraud ever prosecuted at the time.\n\nBeddoe was a senior prosecutor in Peterborough Crown Court, Cambridgeshire. Throughout his career he successfully prosecuted many criminal cases including prosecution of a fraudster who was found guilty of involvement in a £1.5 million fraud in 2002, and a solicitor who plead guilty to stealing £350,000 in fees from clients in 2005. Solicitor Christopher McChrystal was arrested in October 2004 after the Law Society referred his case to the police. McChrystal was subsequently struck off after Lincoln Crown Court's finding that he used the clients' money to make an investment into his business. In 2003 Beddoe was a senior prosecutor in court cases resulting from Operation Harrier, a clean-up operation which has declared all-out war against Class A drugs in Peterborough, Cambridgeshire.\n\nBeddoe has defended at the criminal bar in drug cases, fraud, homicide and other serious crime. He also dealt with Courts Martial, Inquests and Public Enquiries. In 2005 he successfully defended Jason Smith, British soldier who served eight years in the British Army. The court heard that Smith's successful Army career was halted prematurely due to a back injury and he had struggled to come to terms with it. In March 2005, as a result of his post-traumatic stress disorder, Smith had carried out a raid of a petrol station in Northampton at knife-point, but later dropped 45 in cash as the owner and several villagers gave chase. Sentencing Jason Smith to a two-year suspended sentence, Judge Nigel Daly told him: \n\nAs a judge, Beddoe has presided over many high-profile criminal cases, including trial of BAFTA nominated film producers who used Film Tax Credit to claim back inflated cash from the Treasury.\n\nBeddoe was a Recorder of the Crown Court from 2002 until 2007, when he was appointed a Senior Circuit Judge, becoming the Resident Judge on the South Eastern Circuit based at Southwark Crown Court.\n\nIn 2017 Judge Beddoe presided over the case of Ricardo McFarlane, 30-year-old Muslim convert charged with anti-social behaviour after preaching Sharia law in Oxford Street and two other London venues, who declined to stand up in court on religious grounds. McFarlane allegedly breached the terms of an antisocial behaviour order barring him from addressing members of the public to promote sharia law. At the hearing in Southwark Crown Court, Judge Beddoe noticed that McFarlane did not stand when he entered the room. McFarlane's defence barrister commented: \nTo which Judge Beddoe responded:\n\nMcFarlane then proceeded to stand for Judge Beddoe while he was speaking and during the rest of the hearing.\n\nIn May 2017 Judge Beddoe was a lead walker at the London Legal Walk organised by London Legal Support Trust, which was designed to bring together leading criminal practitioners to raises funds for charities that provide life changing legal advice and representation to those in need. It was attended by leading criminal practitioners and professionals working in the criminal justice system, including Lord Thomas, the Lord Chief Justice, Nicholas Hilliard QC, Recorder of London, and Lord Igor Judge, former Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales. In June 2006 Beddoe cycled in the London to Brighton British Heart Foundation cycle rally to raise money in memory of a member of his former chambers, Paul Morgan, who died in 2005 of heart disease at the age of 50.\n\nBeddoe is married to philosopher Mary Margaret Anne McCabe. A fitness enthusiast, he cycles a lot\nand is a keen golfer who served as a club captain of Old Tonbridgian Golfing Society.\n"}
{"id": "463225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463225", "title": "Metric signature", "text": "Metric signature\n\nThe signature of a metric tensor \"g\" (or equivalently, a real quadratic form thought of as a real symmetric bilinear form on a finite-dimensional vector space) is the number (counted with multiplicity) of positive, zero, and negative eigenvalues of the real symmetric matrix of the metric tensor with respect to a basis. In physics, the \"v\" represents for the time or virtual dimension, and the \"p\" for the space and physical dimension. Alternatively, it can be defined as the dimensions of a maximal positive and null subspace. By Sylvester's law of inertia these numbers do not depend on the choice of basis. The signature thus classifies the metric up to a choice of basis. The signature is often denoted by a pair of integers implying \"r\" = 0 or as an explicit list of signs of eigenvalues such as or for the signature , respectively.\n\nThe signature is said to be indefinite or mixed if both \"v\" and \"p\" are nonzero, and degenerate if \"r\" is nonzero. A Riemannian metric is a metric with a positive definite signature . The Lorentzian metric is a metric signature with two eigenvalues.\n\nThere is another notion of signature of a nondegenerate metric tensor given by a single number \"s\" defined as , where \"v\" and \"p\" are as above, which is equivalent to the above definition when the dimension \"n\" = \"v\" + \"p\" is given or implicit. For example, \"s\" = 1 − 3 = −2 for and its mirroring \"s' \" = −\"s\" = +2 for .\n\nThe signature of a metric tensor is defined as the signature of the corresponding quadratic form. It is the number of positive and zero eigenvalues of any matrix (i.e. in any basis for the underlying vector space) representing the form, counted with their algebraic multiplicity. Usually, is required, which is the same as saying a metric tensor must be nondegenerate, i.e. no nonzero vector is orthogonal to all vectors.\n\nBy Sylvester's law of inertia, the numbers are basis independent.\n\nBy the spectral theorem a symmetric \"n\" × \"n\" matrix over the reals is always diagonalizable, and has therefore exactly \"n\" real eigenvalues (counted with algebraic multiplicity). Thus .\n\nAccording to Sylvester's law of inertia, the signature of the scalar product (a.k.a. real symmetric bilinear form), \"g\" does not depend on the choice of basis. Moreover, for every metric \"g\" of signature there exists a basis such that \n\nThe number \"v\" (resp. \"p\") is the maximal dimension of a vector subspace on which the scalar product \"g\" is positive-definite (resp. negative-definite), and \"r\" is the dimension of the radical of the scalar product \"g\" or the null subspace of symmetric matrix of the scalar product. Thus a nondegenerate scalar product has signature , with . A duality of the special cases correspond to two scalar eigenvalues which can be transformed into each other by the mirroring reciprocally.\n\nThe signature of the identity matrix is where . The diagonal matrix of a signature is the number of positive, negative and zero numbers on its main diagonal.\n\nThe following matrices have both the same signature , therefore they are congruent because of Sylvester's law of inertia:\n\nThe standard scalar product defined on formula_2 has the n-dimensional signatures , where and rank .\n\nIn physics, the Minkowski space is a spacetime manifold formula_3 with \"v=1\" and \"p=3\" bases, and has a scalar product defined by either the formula_4 matrix:\nwhich has signature formula_6 and known as space-supremacy or space-like; Or the mirroring signature formula_7, known virtual-supremacy or time-like with the formula_8 matrix. \n\nThere are some methods for computing the signature of a matrix.\n\nIn mathematics, the usual convention for any Riemannian manifold is to use a positive-definite metric tensor (meaning that after diagonalization, elements on the diagonal are all positive).\n\nIn theoretical physics, spacetime is modeled by a pseudo-Riemannian manifold. The signature counts how many time-like or space-like characters are in the spacetime, in the sense defined by special relativity: as used in particle physics, the metric has an eigenvalue on the time-like subspace, and its mirroring eigenvalue on the space-like subspace.\nIn the specific case of the Minkowski metric,\nthe metric signature is formula_11 or (+, −, −, −) if its eigenvalue is defined in the time direction, or formula_6 or (−, +, +, +) if the eigenvalue is defined in the three spatial directions \"x\", \"y\" and \"z\". \n\nIf a metric is regular everywhere then the signature of the metric is constant. However if one allows for metrics that are degenerate or discontinuous on some hypersurfaces, then signature of the metric may change at these surfaces. Such signature changing metrics may possibly have applications in cosmology and quantum gravity.\n\n"}
{"id": "45564275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45564275", "title": "Military democracy", "text": "Military democracy\n\nMilitary democracy is a term used to describe the war-based society of historical peoples. An example is Frederick Engels' characterization:\n\nAccording to Engels, the Greek Heroic Age was a typical example of military democracy. Lewis Henry Morgan spoke of two features: \"the military state of society, and the system of administration consisting of an elective and removable supreme chief, a council of elders and a popular assembly.\"\n"}
{"id": "22317523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22317523", "title": "Mortality salience", "text": "Mortality salience\n\nMortality salience is the awareness by an individual that his or her death is inevitable.\n\nThe term derives from terror management theory, which proposes that mortality salience causes existential anxiety that may be buffered by an individual's cultural worldview and/or sense of self-esteem.\n\nMortality salience engages the conflict that humans have to face both their instinct to avoid death completely, and their intellectual knowledge that avoiding death is ultimately futile. According to terror management theory, when human beings begin to contemplate their mortality and their vulnerability to death, feelings of terror emerge because of the simple fact that humans want to avoid their inevitable death. Mortality salience comes into effect, because humans contribute all of their actions to either avoiding death or distracting themselves from the contemplation of it. Thus, terror management theory asserts that almost all human activity is driven by the fear of death.\n\nMost research done on terror management theory revolves around the mortality salience paradigm. It has been found that religious individuals as well as religious fundamentalists are less vulnerable to mortality salience manipulations, and so religious believers engage in cultural worldview defense to a lesser extent than nonreligious individuals.\n\nMortality salience is highly manipulated by one's self-esteem. Individuals with low self-esteem are more apt to experience the effects of mortality salience, whereas individuals with high self-esteem are better able to cope with the idea that their death is uncontrollable. As an article states, \"according to terror management theory, increased self-esteem should enhance the functioning of the cultural anxiety buffer and thereby provide protection against death concerns\". \n\nMortality salience has the potential to cause worldview defense, a psychological mechanism that strengthens people's connection with their in-group as a defense mechanism. Studies also show that mortality salience can lead people to feel more inclined to punish minor moral transgressions. One such study divided a group of judges into two groups—one that was asked to reflect upon their own mortality, and one group that was not. The judges were then asked to set a bond for an alleged prostitute. The group that had reflected on mortality set an average bond of $455, while the control group's average bond was $50.\n\nAnother study found that mortality salience could cause an increase in support for martyrdom and military intervention. It found that students who had reflected on their mortality showed preference towards people who supported martyrdom, and indicated they might consider martyrdom themselves. They also found that, especially among students who were politically conservative, mortality salience increased support for military intervention, but not among students who were politically liberal.\n\nA study tested \"the hypothesis that mortality salience intensifies gender differences in reactions to sexual and emotional infidelity\". In the study, participants were asked to work through packets that had mortality salience manipulation questions in each. In the results, they found that \"sex is more relevant to the self-esteem of men than women and being in a committed relationship is relatively more important to women than for men\". Therefore, when linking mortality salience to gender, emotion, and sex, men are more likely to suffer from sexual infidelity, and women are more likely to suffer from emotional infidelity. The results of this study showed that there is a logistic regression revealing a significant three-way interaction between gender, sex value, and mortality salience for the item pitting \"passionate sex\" against \"emotional attachment\".\n\nWith mortality salience, humans who have encountered near-death experiences develop a greater sense of self and meaning to life. It has been shown that individuals who face these experiences tend to invest more into relationships, political beliefs, religious beliefs, and other beliefs over material things. As a patient with AIDS shared, \"Because of my illness I have nothing to hide. It has freed me because now I am completely honest\". Developing a cultural worldview provides humans with comfort from the thought of their own inevitable death. This coping mechanism has shown to highly improve the self-worth of humans and highly alleviates existential anxiety.\n\n"}
{"id": "2541701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2541701", "title": "Open-source governance", "text": "Open-source governance\n\nOpen-source governance (also known as open politics) is a political philosophy which advocates the application of the philosophies of the open-source and open-content movements to democratic principles to enable any interested citizen to add to the creation of policy, as with a wiki document. Legislation is democratically opened to the general citizenry, employing their collective wisdom to benefit the decision-making process and improve democracy.\n\nTheories on how to constrain, limit or enable this participation vary. Accordingly, there is no one dominant theory of how to go about authoring legislation with this approach. There are a wide array of projects and movements which are working on building open-source governance systems.\n\nMany left-libertarian and radical centrist organizations around the globe have begun advocating open-source governance and its related political ideas as a reformist alternative to current governance systems. Often, these groups have their origins in decentralized structures such as the Internet and place particular importance on the need for anonymity to protect an individual's right to free speech in democratic systems. Opinions vary, however, not least because the principles behind open-source government are still very loosely defined.\n\nIn practice, several applications have evolved and been used by actual democratic institutions in the developed world:\n\nSome models are significantly more sophisticated than a plain wiki, incorporating semantic tags, levels of control or scoring to mediate disputes – however this always risks empowering a clique of moderators more than would be the case given their trust position within the democratic entity – a parallel to the common wiki problem of official vandalism by persons entrusted with power by owners or publishers (so-called \"sysop vandalism\" or \"administrative censorship\").\n\nSome advocates of these approaches, by analogy to software code, argue for a \"central codebase\" in the form of a set of policies that are maintained in a public registry and that are \"infinitely reproducible\". \"Distributions\" of this policy-base are released (periodically or dynamically) for use in localities, which can apply \"patches\" to customize them for their own use. Localities are also able to cease subscribing to the central policy-base and \"fork\" it or adopt someone else's policy-base. In effect, the government stems from emergent cooperation and self-correction among members of a community. As the policies are put into practice in a number of localities, problems and issues are identified and solved, and where appropriate communicated back to the core.\n\nThese goals for instance were cited often during the Green Party of Canada's experiments with open-political-platform development. As one of over a hundred national Green party entities worldwide and the ability to co-ordinate policy among provincial and municipal equivalents within Canada, it was in a good position to maintain just such a central repository of policy, despite being legally separate from those other entities.\n\nOpen-source governance differs from previous open-government initiatives in its broader emphasis on collaborative processes.\nThe \"Imagine Halifax\" (IH) project was designed to create a citizens' forum for elections in Halifax, Nova Scotia in fall 2004. Founded by Angela Bischoff, the widow of Tooker Gomberg, a notable advocate of combining direct action with open politics methods, IH brought a few dozen activists together to compile a platform (using live meetings and email and seedwiki followup). When it became clear that candidates could not all endorse all elements of the platform, it was then turned into questions for candidates in the election. The best ideas from candidates were combined with the best from activists – the final scores reflected a combination of convergence and originality. In contrast to most such questionnaires, it was easier for candidates to excel by contributing original thought than by simply agreeing. One high scorer, Andrew Younger, had not been involved with the project originally but was elected and appeared on TV with project leader Martin Willison. The project had not only changed its original goal from a partisan platform to a citizen questionnaire, but it had recruited a previously uninvolved candidate to its cause during the election. A key output of this effort was a glossary of about 100 keywords relevant to municipal laws.\n\nThe 2004–05 Green Party of Canada Living Platform was a much more planned and designed effort at open politics. As it prepared itself for an electoral breakthrough in the 2004 federal election, the Green Party of Canada began to compile citizen, member and expert opinions in preparation of its platform. During the election, it gathered input even from Internet trolls including supporters of other parties, with no major problems: anonymity was respected and, if they were within the terms of use, comments remained intact. Despite, or perhaps because of, its early success, it was derailed by Jim Harris, the party's leader, when he discovered that it was a threat to his status as a party boss. The Living Platform split off as another service entirely out of GPC control and eventually evolved into OpenPolitics.ca and a service to promote wiki usage among citizens and political groups.\n\nThe Liberal Party of Canada also attempted a deep policy renewal effort in conjunction with its leadership race in 2006. While candidates in that race, notably Carolyn Bennett, Stéphane Dion and Michael Ignatieff, all made efforts to facilitate web-threaded policy-driven conversations between supporters, all failed to create lateral relationships and thus also failed to contribute much to the policy renewal effort.\n\nNumerous very different projects related to open-source governance collaborate under the umbrella of the Metagovernment project; Metagovernment uses the term \"collaborative governance\", most of which are building platforms of open-source governance.\n\nFuture Melbourne is a wiki-based collaborative environment for developing Melbourne's 10-year plan. During public consultation periods, it enables the public to edit the plan with the same editing rights as city personnel and councilors.\n\nThe New Zealand Police Act Review was a wiki used to solicit public commentary during the public consultation period of the acts review.\n\nAt linux.conf.au on January 14, 2015 in Auckland, New Zealand, Australian Audrey Lobo-Pulo presented \"Evaluating Government Policies Using Open Source Models\", agitating for government policy related knowledge, data and analysis to be freely available to everyone to use, modify and distribute without restriction \"a parallel universe where public policy development and analysis is a dynamic, collaborative effort between government and its citizens\". Audrey reported that the motivation for her work was personal uncertainty about the nature and accuracy of models, estimates and assumptions used to prepare policies released with the 2014 Australian Federal Government Budget, and whether and to what extent their real world impact is assessed following implementation. A white paper on \"Evaluating Government Policies using Open Source Models\" was released on September 10, 2015.\n\nThe open-politics theory, a narrow application of open-source governance, combines aspects of the free software and open-content movements, promoting decision-making methods claimed to be more open, less antagonistic, and more capable of determining what is in the public interest with respect to public policy issues. It takes special care for instance to deal with equity differences, geographic constraints, defamation versus free political speech, accountability to persons affected by decisions, and the actual standing law and institutions of a jurisdiction. There is also far more focus on compiling actual positions taken by real entities than developing theoretical \"best\" answers or \"solutions\". One example, DiscourseDB, simply lists articles pro and con a given position without organizing their argument or evidence in any way.\n\nWhile some interpret it as an example of \"open-source politics\", open politics is not a top–down theory but a set of best practices from citizen journalism, participatory democracy and deliberative democracy, informed by e-democracy and netroots experiments, applying argumentation framework for issue-based argument as they evolved in academic and military use through the 1980s to present. Some variants of it draw on the theory of scientific method and market methods, including prediction markets and anticipatory democracy.\n\nIts advocates often engage in legal lobbying and advocacy to directly change laws in the way of the broader application of the technology, e.g. opposing political libel cases in Canada, fighting libel chill generally, and calling for clarification of privacy and human rights law especially as they relate to citizen journalism. They are less focused on tools although the semantic mediawiki and tikiwiki platforms seem to be generally favored above all others.\n\n"}
{"id": "447492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447492", "title": "Policy debate", "text": "Policy debate\n\nPolicy debate is a form of debate competition in which teams of two advocate for and against a resolution that typically calls for policy change by the United States federal government. It is also referred to as cross-examination debate (sometimes shortened to Cross-X, CX, Cross-ex, or C-X) because of the 3-minute questioning period following each constructive speech. Affirmative teams generally present a \"plan\" as a proposal for implementation of the resolution.\n\nHigh school policy debate is sponsored by various organizations including the National Speech and Debate Association, National Association of Urban Debate Leagues, Catholic Forensic League, Stoa USA, and the National Christian Forensics and Communications Association, as well as many other regional speech organizations. Collegiate policy debates are generally competed under the guidelines of National Debate Tournament (NDT) and the Cross Examination Debate Association (CEDA), which have been joined at the collegiate level. A one-person policy format is sanctioned by the National Forensic Association (NFA) on the collegiate level as well.\n\nAcademic debate had its origins in intracollegiate debating societies, in which students would engage in (often public) debates against their classmates. Wake Forest University's debate program claims to have its origins in student literary societies founded on campus in the mid-1830s, which first presented joint \"orations\" in 1854. Many debating societies that were founded at least as early as the mid-nineteenth century are still active today, though they have generally shifted their focus to intercollegiate competitive debate. In addition to Wake Forest, the debate society at Northwestern University dates to 1855. Boston College's Fulton Debating Society, which was founded in 1868, continues to stage an annual public \"Fulton Prize Debate\" between teams of its own students after the intercollegiate debate season has ended. Other universities continue similar traditions.\n\nIntercollegiate debates have been held since at least as early as the 1890s. Historical records indicate that debates between teams from Wake Forest University and Trinity College (later Duke University) occurred beginning in 1897. Additionally, a debate between students from Boston College and Georgetown University occurred on May 1, 1895, in Boston. Whitman College debated Washington State University, Willamette University, and the University of Idaho in the late 1890s. Southwestern claims that the first debate held on its campus was between Southwestern and Fairmount College (which eventually became Wichita State University) but that debate could not have occurred prior to 1895, the year Fairmount College began classes.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, structured rules for lengths of speeches developed. Each side (affirmative and negative) was afforded two opening \"constructive\" speeches, and two closing \"rebuttal\" speeches, for a total of eight speeches per debate. Each speaker was cross-examined by an opponent for a period following his or her constructive speech. Traditionally rebuttals were half the length of constructives, but when a style of faster delivery speed became more standard in the late 1980s this time structure became problematic. Wake Forest University introduced reformed speech times in both its college (9‑6 instead of 10‑5) and high school (8‑5 instead of 8‑4) tournaments, which spread rapidly to become the new de facto standards.\n\nIn 2014, debaters Ameena Ruffin and Korey Johnson made history by being the first black women to win the Cross Examination Debate Association tournament, which is the largest college debate tournament.\n\nPolicy debaters' speed of delivery will vary from league to league and tournament to tournament. In many tournaments, debaters will speak very quickly in order to read as much evidence and make as many arguments as possible within the time-constrained speech. Speed reading or spreading is normal at the majority of national circuit policy debate tournaments.\n\nSome feel that the rapid-fire delivery makes debate harder to understand for the lay person. Rapid delivery is encouraged by those who believe that increased quantity and diversity of argumentation makes debates more educational. Others, citing scientific studies, claim that learning to speak faster also increases short- and long-term memory. A slower style is preferred by those who want debates to be understandable to lay people and those who claim that the pedagogical purpose of the activity is to train rhetorical skills. This is often a argument made by those who oppose in-round spreading - that the use of incomprehensible speeds makes debate less appealing to lay people. Many further claim that the increased speed encourages debaters to make several poor arguments, as opposed to a few high-quality ones. Most debaters will vary their rate of delivery depending upon the judge's preferences.\n\nDebaters utilize a specialized form of note taking, called \"flowing\", to keep track of the arguments presented during a debate. Conventionally, debater's flowing is divided into separate \"flows\" for each different argument in the debate round (kritiks, disads, topicalities, case, etc.). There are multiple methods of flowing but the most common style incorporates columns of arguments made in a given speech which allows the debater to match the next speaker's responses up with the original arguments. Certain shorthands for commonly used words are used to keep up with the rapid rate of delivery. The abbreviations or stand-in symbols vary between debaters.\n\nFlowing on a laptop has become more and more popular among high school and college debaters, despite the reservations of certain schools, tournaments, and judges. Some debaters use a basic computer spreadsheet; others use specialized flowing templates, which includes embedded shortcut keys for the most common formatting needs.\n\nAlthough there are many accepted standards in policy debate, there is no written formulation of rules. Sometimes debaters will in fact debate about how policy debate should work. These arguments are known as \"theory arguments\", and they are most often brought up when one team believes the actions of the other team are unfair and therefore warrant a loss. In more recent years, however, theory arguments have not been nearly as present in the Novice level as before.\n\nWhen the Affirmative team presents a plan, they take upon themselves the Burden of Proof to prove that their plan should be adopted. They must prove that their plan is an example of the resolution, and they must prove that the plan is a good idea. The Affirmative traditionally must uphold this burden using evidence from published sources, to avoid ridiculous cases.\n\nOne traditional way to judge policy debate states that the affirmative team must win certain issues, called the stock issues. They are generally interpreted to be as follows:\nHow many negative disadvantages will the plan have? Will its disadvantages outweigh its advantages?\nWill the plan solve the harms and can it even happen in the real world? How much of an impact will the plan have?\nWhat is the problem in the status quo to justify implementation of the plan? Is the plan important enough to even warrant consideration or make a difference?\nIs the affirmative's plan happening already, and if not, why?\nIs the plan an example of the resolution? Does the affirmative team's proposed policy comply with the wording of the resolution?\n\nThe \"stock issues\" are also commonly described as Significance, Harms, Inherency, Topicality, and Solvency. The \"stock issues\" are then taught collectively as \"The S.H.I.T.S.\" . Stock issues are taught extensively to novice debaters, but typically become less relevant as debaters move into more complex and less traditional arguments. Stock issues are strongly associated with traditional policy debate, and are typically stressed in advanced debates only if the judge is known to have traditionalist preferences. In some places (notably the West Coast), there is the additional stock issue of disadvantages; or a 'bad thing' that may occur as a result of passing the plan.\n\nMost affirmative teams today generally frame their case around advantages, which are good effects of their plan. The negative team will often present disadvantages which contend that the affirmative plan causes undesirable consequences. In an attempt to make sure that their advantages/disadvantages outweigh those of the other team, debaters often present extreme scenarios such as the extinction of the human race or a global nuclear war.\n\nNegation Theory contends that the negative need only negate the affirmative instead of having to negate the resolution. The acceptance of negation theory allows negative teams to run arguments such as topical counter plans that may affirm the resolution but still negate the affirmative's specific plan.\n\nAfter the affirmative presents its case, the negative can attack the case with many different arguments, which include:\n\nEvidence in debates is organized into units called \"cards\" (because such evidence was originally printed on note cards, though the practice has long been out of favor). Cards are designed to condense an author's argument so that debaters have an easy way to access the information. A card is composed of three parts: the tag, the cite, and the body. The \"tag\" is the debater's summary of the argument presented in the body. A tag is usually only one or two sentences. The \"cite\" contains all relevant citation information (that is, the author, date of publication, journal, title, etc.). Although every card should contain a complete citation, only the author's name and date of publication are typically spoken aloud in a speech. Some teams will also read the author's qualifications if they wish to emphasize this information. The \"body\" is a fragment of the author's original text. The length of a body can vary greatly—cards can be as short as a few sentences and as long as two or more pages. Most cards are between one and five paragraphs in length. The body of a card is often underlined or highlighted in order to eliminate unnecessary or redundant sentences when the card is read in a round. In a round, the tag is read first, followed by the cite and the body.\n\nAs pieces of evidence accumulate use, multiple colors of highlighting and different thicknesses of underlining often occur, sometimes making it difficult to determine which portion of the evidence was read. If debaters stop before finishing the underlined or highlighted portion of a card, it is considered good form to \"mark\" the card to show where one stopped reading. To otherwise misrepresent how much of a card was read—either by stopping early or by skipping underlined or highlighted sections—is known as \"cross-reading\" or \"clipping\" which is generally considered cheating. Although many judges overtly condemn the practice on their paradigms, it is hard to enforce, especially if judges permit debaters to be excessively unclear. Opponents will generally stand behind a debater whom they believe to be cross-reading or clipping, as if waiting to take a card (see below), and silently read along with them in an attempt to get their opponent to stop or the judge to notice.\n\nAs cards are read in round, it is common for an opponent to collect and examine even while a speech is still going on. This practice originated in part because cards are read at a rate faster than conversational speed but also because the un-underlined portions of cards are not read in round. Taking the cards during the speech allows the opponent to question the author's qualifications, the original context of the evidence, etc. in cross-examination. It is generally accepted whichever team is using preparation time has priority to read evidence read previously during a round by both teams. As a result, large amounts of evidence may change hands after the use of preparation time but before a speech. Most judges will not deduct from a team's preparation time for time spent finding evidence which the other team has misplaced.\n\nAfter a round, judges often \"call for cards\" to examine evidence whose merit was contested during the round or whose weight was emphasized during rebuttals so that they can read the evidence for themselves. Although widespread, this practice is explicitly banned at some tournaments, most notably National Catholic Forensic League nationals, and some judges refuse to call for cards because they believe the practice constitutes \"doing work for debaters that should have been done during round\". Judges may also call for evidence for the purpose of obtaining its citation information so that they can produce the evidence for their own school. Opponents and spectators are also generally allowed to collect citations in this manner, and some tournaments send scouts to rounds to facilitate the collection of cites for every team at the tournament, information which is sometimes published online.\n\nA judge refers to the individual responsible for determining the winner and loser of a policy debate round as well as assessing the relative merit of the participant speakers. Judges must resolve the complex issues presented in short time while, ideally, avoiding inserting their own personal beliefs that might cloud impartiality. \n\nSome circuits see \"lay\" or inexperienced judges recruited from the community as an important \"part of the game.\" Debaters in these circuits must be able to adapt from presentations to individuals with no debate experience at all, to judges who have themselves been debaters. This use of lay judges significantly impacts delivery and argumentation as the rapid-fire style and complex debate-theory arguments are frequently incomprehensible to lay judges. For this reason, other circuits restrict policy debate judging to qualified judges, generally ex-debaters. The use of lay judges, and its impact in speed, presentation and argumentation is a source of great controversy in the US high school debate community.\n\nThe judge is charged not only with selecting a winner, but also must allot points to each competitor. Known as \"speaker points\" or simply \"speaks\", its goal is to provide a numerical evaluation of the debaters' speaking skills. Speaker point schemes vary throughout local state and regional organizations particularly at the high school level. However, the method accepted by most national organizations such as the National Forensic League, Tournament of Champions, National Catholic Forensic League, Cross-Examination Debate Association, and National Debate Tournament, use values ranging from 1 to 30. In practice, within these organizations the standard variation is 26‑29, where 26's are given to extremely poor speakers, where a perfect score is considered incredibly rare and warranted only by an outstanding performance. Most tournaments accept halfpoint gradiations, for example 28.5s. Generally, speaker points are seen as secondary in importance to wins and losses, yet often correlate with a team's win/loss rate. In other words, the judge usually awards the winning team cumulatively higher speaker points than the losing team. If the judge does not, the decision is considered a \"low-point win\". Low-point wins simply mean that the team with better argumentation spoke worse, but are often rare, because judges will vote for teams that speak better, and award better speaker points to victorious teams.\n\nIn some smaller jurisdictions, the judge ranks the speakers 1‑4 instead of awarding them speaker points. Either speaker-point calculation may be used to break ties among teams with like records. Some areas also use speaker rankings in addition to speaker points in order to differentiate between speakers awarded the same number of points.\n\nAt a majority of tournaments, debaters also receive \"speaker awards\", which are awarded to the debaters who received the greatest number of speaker points. Many tournaments also drop the highest and lowest score received by each debater, in order to ensure that the speaker award calculations are fair and consistent, despite the preferences of different judges. The amount of speaker awards given out varies based on the number of debaters competing at any given tournament. For instance, a small local tournament might only award trophies or plaques to the top three debaters, whereas a widely attended \"national circuit\" tournament might give out awards to the top ten or fifteen speakers.\n\nExperienced debate judges (who were generally debaters in high school and/or college) generally carry a mindset that favors certain arguments and styles over others. Depending on what mindset, or paradigm, the judge uses, the debate can be drastically different. Because there is no one view of debate agreed upon by everyone, many debaters question a judge about their paradigm and/or their feelings on specific arguments before the round.\n\nNot every judge fits perfectly into one paradigm or another. A judge may say that they are \"tabula rasa\" or tab for short, or willing to listen to anything, but draw the line at arguments they consider to be offensive (such as arguments in favor of racism). Or, a judge might be a \"policymaker\", but still look at the debate in an offense/defense framework like a games-playing judge.\n\nExamples of paradigms include:\n\nMost high school debaters debate in local tournaments in their city, state or nearby states. Thousands of tournaments are held each year at high schools throughout the US.\n\nA small subset of high school debaters, mostly from elite public and private schools, travel around the country to tournaments in what is called the 'national circuit.' The championship of the national circuit is usually considered to be the Tournament of Champions, also called the T.O.C, at the University of Kentucky, which requires formal qualification in the form of two or more bids to the tournament. Bids are achieved by reaching a certain level of elimination rounds (for example, quarter-finals) at select, highly competitive, and carefully chosen tournaments across the country based upon the quality of debaters they attract and the diversity of locations from across the United States they represent.\n\nUrban debate leagues give students in urban school districts an opportunity to participate in policy debate. There are currently urban debate leagues in 24 of the largest cities in the United States. In total, more than 500 high schools participate in the league and more than 40,000 students have competed in urban debate.\n\nThere is some dispute over what constitutes the \"national championship\" in the United States per se, but two tournaments generally compete for the title:\nThe Tournament of Champions held at the University of Kentucky, and the National Speech and Debate tournament sponsored by the National Forensic League (now known as the National Speech & Debate Association). For the highest level of competition, the Tournament of Champions is generally considered to be the more prestigious title to hold.\n\nIn Texas, some debate occurs on the Texas Forensic Association (TFA) level. This organization includes mostly the progressive judging paradigms and favors many off topic arguments. TFA is geared towards the larger schools/programs who tend to be in the suburban areas in the major cities in the eastern part of the state. The other type of debate is UIL. UIL is open to all public schools throughout Texas.\n\nTFA State policy debate tends to favor a multitude of off-case arguments and teams that favor a progressive style; while UIL State tends to be more policy focused.\n\nThere is no single unified national championship in college debate; though the National Debate Tournament (NDT), the Cross Examination Debate Association (CEDA) and the American Debate Association (ADA) all host national tournaments. The NDT committee issues a ranking report of the top 16 teams in the country (\"first round bids\") for automatic advancement to the NDT in early February. The report roughly determines a regular season champion called the 'Copeland Award' for the team rated the highest over the course of the year through early February.\n\nWhile once attended by only highly competitive policy debaters, many high school students now attend debate institutes, which are typically held at colleges in the summer. Most institutes range from about two to seven weeks.\n\nMany institutes divide students into work groups, or \"labs\", based on skill level and experience. Many even offer specialized \"advanced\" or \"scholars\" workshops, to which acceptance is highly limited.\n\nA resolution or topic is a statement which the affirmative team affirms and the negative team negates. Resolutions are selected annually by affiliated schools. Most resolutions from the 1920s to 2005 have begun \"Resolved: that The United States federal government should\" although some variations from this structure have been apparent both before the NDT-CEDA merger and with the 2006–2007 college policy debate topic, which limited the affirmative agent to the United States Supreme Court.\n\nAt the college level, a number of topics are proposed and interested parties write \"topic papers\" discussing the pros and cons of that individual topic. Each school then gets one vote on the topic. The single topic area voted on then has a number of proposed topic wordings, one is chosen, and it is debated by affiliated students nationally for the entire season (standard academic school year).\n\nAt the high-school level, \"topic papers\" are also prepared but the voting procedure is different. These papers are then presented to a topic selection committee which rewords each topic and eventually narrows down the number of topics to five topics. Then the five resolutions are put to a two-tiered voting system. State forensic associations, the National Forensic League, and the National Catholic Forensic League all vote on the five topics, narrowing it down to two. Then the two topics are again put to a vote, and one topic is selected.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in one or more of the following: South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, Turkey.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the Mesosphere.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its economic engagement toward Cuba, Mexico or Venezuela.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its non-military exploration and/or development of the Earth's oceans.\n\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially curtail its domestic surveillance.\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its economic and/or diplomatic engagement with the People's Republic of China.\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding and/or regulation of primary and/or secondary education in the United States.\nResolved: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its restrictions on legal immigration to the United States.\n\nThe times and speech order are generally as follows:\n\nIn addition to speeches, policy debates may allow for a certain amount of preparation time, or \"prep time,\" during a debate round. NFL rules call for 5 minutes of total prep time that can be used, although in practice high school debate tournaments usually give 8 minutes of prep time. College debates typically have 10 minutes of preparation time. The preparation time is used at each team's preference; they can use different amounts of preparation time before any of their speeches, or even none at all. Prep time can be allocated strategically to intimidate or inconvenience the other team: for instance, normally a 1AR requires substantial prep time, so a well-executed \"stand up 1AR,\" delivered after no prep time intimidates the negative team and takes away from time that the 2NR may have used to prepare the parts of his/her speech which do not rely on what the 1AR says.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4587226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4587226", "title": "Product category", "text": "Product category\n\nIn the mathematical field of category theory, the product of two categories \"C\" and \"D\", denoted and called a product category, is an extension of the concept of the Cartesian product of two sets. Product categories are used to define bifunctors and multifunctors.\n\nThe product category has:\n\nFor small categories, this is the same as the action on objects of the categorical product in the category Cat. A functor whose domain is a product category is known as a bifunctor. An important example is the Hom functor, which has the product of the opposite of some category with the original category as domain:\n\nJust as the binary Cartesian product is readily generalized to an \"n\"-ary Cartesian product, binary product of two categories can be generalized, completely analogously, to a product of \"n\" categories. The product operation on categories is commutative and associative, up to isomorphism, and so this generalization brings nothing new from a theoretical point of view.\n\n"}
{"id": "36749202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36749202", "title": "Progressive illumination", "text": "Progressive illumination\n\nProgressive illumination is a theological concept describing the hermeneutical practice of orthodox theological development, most notably in Christianity; though the practice exists in many religions, especially Abrahamic religions. The term is used mostly among Christian theologians. It is distinct from progressive revelation in that it does not describe the reception from God of new divine texts, or any novel concept that has no accepted foundation. Rather it describes God-given understanding of existing revelation in a better and more accurate way. It usually refers to understanding a biblical concept better, but the term also encompasses understanding creation better, even through scientific inquiry.\n"}
{"id": "2539819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2539819", "title": "Public records", "text": "Public records\n\nPublic records are documents or pieces of information that are not considered confidential and generally pertain to the conduct of government.\n\nFor example, in California, when a couple fills out a marriage license application, they have the option of checking the box as to whether the marriage is \"confidential\" (Record will be closed, and not opened to public once recorded) or \"public\" (record will become public record once recorded). Essentially, if the marriage record is public, a copy of the record can be ordered from the county in which the marriage occurred.\n\nSince the earliest organised societies, with taxation, disputes, and so on, records of some sort have been needed. In ancient Babylon records were kept in cuneiform writing on clay tablets. In the Inca empire of South America, which did not have writing, records were kept via an elaborate form of knots in cords, quipu, whose meaning has been lost.\n\nIn Western Europe in the Late Middle Ages public records included census records as well as records of birth, death, and marriage; an example is the 1086 \"Domesday Book\" of William the Conqueror. The details of royal marriage agreements, which were effectively international treaties, were also recorded. The United Kingdom Public Record Office Act, which formalised record-keeping by setting up the Public Record Office, was passed in 1838.\n\n\nAlthough public records are records of public business, they are not necessarily available without restriction, although Freedom of Information legislation (FOI) that has been gradually introduced in many jurisdictions since the 1960s has made access easier. Each government has policies and regulations that govern the availability of information contained in public records. A common restriction is that data about a person is not normally available to others; for example, the California Public Records Act (PRA) states that \"except for certain explicit exceptions, personal information maintained about an individual may not be disclosed without the person's consent\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Cabinet papers were subject to the thirty-year rule: until the introduction of FOI legislation, Cabinet papers were not available for thirty years; some information could be withheld for longer. the rule still applies to some information, such as minutes of Cabinet meetings.\n\nSome companies provide access, for a fee, to many public records available on the Internet. Many of them specialize in particular types of information, while some offer access to different types of record, typically to professionals in various fields. Some companies sell software with a promise of unlimited access to public records, but may provide nothing more than basic information on how to access already available and generally free public websites.\n\nEach year news media, civic groups, libraries, nonprofits, schools and others interested groups sponsor \"Sunshine Week.\" Sunshine Week occurs in mid-March, coinciding with James Madison's birthday and National Freedom of Information Day on the 16th. The purpose of the week is to highlight the idea that \"government functions best when it operates in the open.\"\n\nIn many states, state legislatures are often exempt from public-records laws that apply to state executive officials and local officials. In 2016, the Associated Press made a request for the emails and daily schedules of state legislative leaders (speakers of state Houses and presidents of state Senates) in all 50 states; a majority denied the request.\n\nOf particular significance was the evolution of the common-law right \"to access court records to inspect and to copy\". The expectation inherent in the common law right to access court records is that any person may come to the office of the clerk of the court during business hours and request to inspect court records, with almost instantaneous access. Such right is a central safeguard of the integrity of the courts. Any decision to conceal court records requires a sealing order. The right to access court records is also central to liberty: There is no conceivable way to exercise the Habeas Corpus right, deemed by the late Justice Brennan as \"the cornerstone\" of the United States Constitution, absent access to court records as public records.\n\nIn the United States the common law right to \"access court records to inspect and to copy\" was reaffirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Nixon v Warner Communications, Inc\" (1978), where the court found various parts of the right to access court records as inherent to the First, Fourth, Sixth, and Fourteenth Amendments. In the United States access to court records is governed by Civil Rights in the Amendments to the United States Constitution, not by the Freedom of Information Act.\n\nAs court records become increasingly more accessible online, concerns about the undermining of private information has become a significant issue. In the past, obtaining court records required people to physically go to a courthouse and request documents, making privacy concerns essentially obsolete. However, with the relative ease at which people can now access these records, highly sensitive information (i.e. victim names, social security numbers, etc.) are at risk of being publicly exploited.\n\nAccess to U.S. national public records is guided by the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). Requests for access to records pursuant to FOIA may be refused by federal agencies if information requested is subject to exemption, or some information may be redacted (deleted).\n\nIn addition to the national FOIA, all states have some form of FOI legislation. For example, Colorado has the Colorado Open Records Act (CORA); in New Jersey the law is known as the Open Public Records Act (OPRA).\n\nThere are many degrees of accessibility to public records between states, with some making it fairly easy to request and receive documents, and others with many exemptions and restricted categories of documents. One state that is fairly responsive to public records requests is New York, which utilizes the Committee on Open Government to assist citizens with their requests. A state that was fairly restrictive in how they respond to public records requests is Pennsylvania, where the law formerly presumed that all documents are exempt from disclosure, unless they can be proven otherwise. This was changed by a 2008 bill that went into effect in 2009.. The California Public Records Act (\"California Government Code\" §§6250-6276.48) covers the arrest and booking records of inmates in the State of California jails and prisons, which are not covered by First Amendment rights (freedom of speech and of the press). Public access to arrest and booking records is seen as a critical safeguard of liberty.\n\nWith the advent of the Internet and the information age, access to public records in the United States to anyone who wishes to view them has dramatically increased. Third parties such as the information broker industry make regular use of public records to compile readily accessible profiles on millions of people, and may make a profit from the service of recompiling and mining the data.\n\nPublic record data is used for multiple purposes, such as ensuring that child support payments are made as determined by the courts, assisting credit bureaus in keeping accurate data and helping to pay pension benefits to retirees.\n\nIndividual criminal histories are generally considered to be public records in the United States and are often accessed via criminal history background checks, but \"access and use of FBI-maintained criminal history record information has been traditionally limited and controlled in large measure to protect the privacy of the individuals to whom the records pertain.\" The federal Fair Credit Reporting Act imposes \"fair information-practice requirements by consumer reporting agencies that report public record information, such as criminal history records, for employment purposes,\" and some state consumer-protection laws impose more restrictive regulations.\n\nAccording to the Reporters' Committee for Freedom of the Press, in the United States, arrest records \"are generally open to the public unless they concern an active or ongoing investigation. A few states restrict the information that can be obtained from an arrest record, especially when it concerns individuals who were never charged, were acquitted or had their records expunged. Again, the determination will often result in a balancing test comparing the public's interest in disclosure against the individual privacy interest.\" By contrast, protective custody and juvenile delinquency records are exempted from most state open-records laws, such that access is \"limited to the juvenile, his or her parents or guardians, or other parties directly involved in a legal matter.\"\n\nIn early 2018, the National Archives put up a webpage, \"Unauthorized Disposition of Federal Records,\" to publish all instances of investigations into possible unauthorized destruction of records.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40758039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40758039", "title": "Region-beta paradox", "text": "Region-beta paradox\n\nThe region-beta paradox denotes the phenomenon that people can sometimes recover more quickly from more intense emotions or pain than from less distressing experiences. The hypothesized reason is that intense states trigger psychological defense processes that reduce the distress, while less intense states do not trigger the same psychological defense processes and, therefore, less effective attenuation of the stress occurs. However, people typically predict intense states to last longer.\n\nThe paradox has been observed in the psychological effects of exposure to terrorist attacks. This is likely related to activation of coping, cognitive dissonance and other forms of mental mobilization.\n\nIt has been computationally modelled in an affective computing model.\n\nThe name originates from the illustration in the paper by Gilbert et al. that introduced the paradox. They consider a commuter who has the habit of walking to destinations within a mile of her origin, and biking to more distant destinations. Since the bike is faster the commuter will reach some distant locations more quickly than a nearer destinations (region beta in their diagram), reversing the normal tendency to arrive later at more distant locations.\n\nThis non-monotonicity applies to states where interventions can be chosen, but are not chosen below certain thresholds (because of cost etc.). For example, injured people may be more likely to seek out effective means to speed their recovery (taking medicine, going to a doctor, undergoing surgery) when the injury is more severe than for mild injuries, making the lesser injuries last longer.\n\n"}
{"id": "38519367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38519367", "title": "ST type theory", "text": "ST type theory\n\nThe following system is Mendelson's (1997, 289–293) ST type theory. \nST is equivalent with Russell's ramified theory plus the Axiom of reducibility. \nThe domain of quantification is partitioned into an ascending hierarchy of types, with all individuals assigned a type. Quantified variables range over only one type; hence the underlying logic is first-order logic. ST is \"simple\" (relative to the type theory of \"Principia Mathematica\") primarily because all members of the domain and codomain of any relation must be of the same type.\nThere is a lowest type, whose individuals have no members and are members of the second lowest type. Individuals of the lowest type correspond to the urelements of certain set theories. Each type has a next higher type, analogous to the notion of successor in Peano arithmetic. While ST is silent as to whether there is a maximal type, a transfinite number of types poses no difficulty. These facts, reminiscent of the Peano axioms, make it convenient and conventional to assign a natural number to each type, starting with 0 for the lowest type. But type theory does not require a prior definition of the naturals.\n\nThe symbols peculiar to ST are primed variables and infix formula_1. In any given formula, unprimed variables all have the same type, while primed variables (formula_2) range over the next higher type. The atomic formulas of ST are of two forms, formula_3 (identity) and formula_4. The infix symbol formula_1 suggests the intended interpretation, set membership.\n\nAll variables appearing in the definition of identity and in the axioms \"Extensionality\" and \"Comprehension\", range over individuals of one of two consecutive types. Only unprimed variables (ranging over the \"lower\" type) can appear to the left of 'formula_1', whereas to its right, only primed variables (ranging over the \"higher\" type) can appear. The first-order formulation of ST rules out quantifying over types. Hence each pair of consecutive types requires its own axiom of Extensionality and of Comprehension, which is possible if \"Extensionality\" and \"Comprehension\" below are taken as axiom schemata \"ranging over\" types.\n\n\nLet formula_9 denote any first-order formula containing the free variable formula_10.\n\n\n\nST reveals how type theory can be made very similar to axiomatic set theory. Moreover, the more elaborate ontology of ST, grounded in what is now called the \"iterative conception of set,\" makes for axiom (schemata) that are far simpler than those of conventional set theories, such as ZFC, with simpler ontologies. Set theories whose point of departure is type theory, but whose axioms, ontology, and terminology differ from the above, include New Foundations and Scott–Potter set theory.\n\nChurch's type theory has been extensively studied by two of Church's students, Leon Henkin and Peter B. Andrews. Since ST is a higher order logic, and in higher order logics one can define propositional connectives in terms of logical equivalence and quantifiers, in 1963 Henkin developed a formulation of ST based on equality, but in which he restricted attention to propositional types. This was simplified later that year by Andrews in his\ntheory Q. In this respect ST can be seen as a particular kind of a higher-order logic, classified by P.T. Johnstone in \"Sketches of an Elephant\", as having a lambda-signature, that is a higher-order signature that contains no relations, and uses only products and arrows (function types) as type constructors. Furthermore, as Johnstone put it, ST is \"logic-free\" in the sense that it contains no logical connectives or quantifiers in its formulae.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41595317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41595317", "title": "Sake Sommelier of the Year", "text": "Sake Sommelier of the Year\n\nSake Sommelier of the Year is an annual competition jointly organised by the Sake Sommelier Association. Held in London it is the first of its kind to be held outside Japan.\nThe competition aims to find the most skilful Sake Sommeliers bringing them to the attention of their customers and raising the profile of their establishments. More than 50 sommeliers from Europe, Asia and the Middle East entered the first competition in 2013.\n\nIn 2015, two new titles were introduced to both encourage and reward contribution to the world of sake; Young Sake Ambassador and Sake Ambassador.\n\nThe Sake Sommelier of the Year is open to any professionals involved in the service of sake.\n\nAfter registering, applicants are sent a first-round questionnaire. From these, three finalist are chosen to compete in the live competition where they will be judged on knowledge, blind tasting, sake matching, and practical skill.\n\nAn enormous amount of learning and confidence-building takes place by taking part in the competition.\n\nThe competition's judging panel represent a countrywide mix of the most experienced, innovative, respected and awarded faces in the industry including founders of Sake Sommelier Association\n\nThe Sake Sommelier of the Year is held annually and is sponsored by one of the world's oldest family-owned sake companies Gekkeikan\n\nThe first competition was held on 11 November 2013 at the Westbury Hotel in London, and was won by UAE Sommelier Rajan Rengasamy, wine supplier Spinneys.\n\nIn 2014, the Sake Sommelier of the Year was held on 24 November at the Westbury Hotel in London for the second time and was won by Noel Pusch of Zuma Abu Dhabi.\n\nIn 2015, the competition was held on 23 November at the Millennium Hotel, Knightsbridge London and was won by Miguel A. Hernandez of Kouzu.\n\nIn 2016, the most recent competition was held on 21 November at the Millennium Hotel, Knightsbridge London and was won by Venkadesh Thanga Mariappan of the Bonnington Jumeirah Lakes Tower Hotel, UAE.\n\nThe winner of the Sake Sommelier of the Year will win a unique trip to Japan.\n\nThe Young Sake Ambassador is an annual award given to someone aged 18-30 who has had little to no previous experience with sake, but who shows a great interest, enthusiasm, and desire to contribute to the world of sake, and expand the knowledge and appreciation of sake either in their own community or with an aspiration to help it grow worldwide.\n\nThe aim of this award is to bring a fresh mind-set into the sake industry worldwide. The selected Young Sake Ambassador of the Year will be expected to spend a year contributing to the promotion of sake with the Sake Sommelier Association's support.\n\nAwarded every two years, the Sake Ambassador is bestowed upon someone for their outstanding dedication to the world of sake. The individual will have been working for sake diplomacy, contributing to the understanding and appreciation of sake throughout their country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "177681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177681", "title": "Schadenfreude", "text": "Schadenfreude\n\nSchadenfreude (; ; 'harm-joy') is the experience of pleasure, joy, or self-satisfaction that comes from learning of or witnessing the troubles, failures, or humiliation of another. It is one of four related emotions or concepts.\n\nSchadenfreude is a complex negative emotion. Rather than feeling sympathy towards someones misfortune, schadenfreude evokes joyful feelings that take pleasure from watching someone fail. This emotion is displayed more in children than adults, however adults also experience schadenfreude, they are just better at concealing their expressions,\n\n\"Schadenfreude\" is borrowed from German; it is a compound of \"Schaden\", \"damage, harm\", and \"Freude\", \"joy\". The German word was first mentioned in English texts in 1852 and 1867, and first used in English running text in 1895. In German, it was first attested in the 1740s.\n\nThough common nouns are normally not capitalised in English, \"Schadenfreude\" is sometimes capitalised following the German convention.\n\nResearchers have found that there are three driving forces behind schadenfreude: aggression, rivalry, and justice. The people who experience schadenfreude usually have low self esteem. Seeing another person fail brings them a small surge of confidence. Whereas, seeing someone who is successful poses as a threat to their sense of self and seeing the 'mighty' fall can be a source of comfort.\n\n\n\n\n\"Schadenfreude\" has equivalents in other languages (for example, German, Dutch, Arabic, Hebrew, Bangla, Czech, Norwegian and Finnish), but no commonly used precise English single-word equivalent. There are other ways to express the concept in English.\n\n\"Epicaricacy\" is a seldom-used direct equivalent, borrowed from Greek \"epichairekakia\" (ἐπιχαιρεκακία, first attested in Aristotle), from ἐπί \"epi\" 'upon', χαρά \"chara\" 'joy', and κακόν \"kakon\" 'evil'.\n\n\"Tall poppy syndrome\" is a cultural phenomenon where people of high status are resented, attacked, cut down, or criticized because they have been classified as better than their peers. This is similar to begrudgery, the resentment or envy of the success of a peer. If someone were to feel joy by the victim’s fall from grace, they would be experiencing \"Schadenfreude\".\n\nA \"Roman holiday\" is a metaphor from Byron's poem \"Childe Harold's Pilgrimage\", where a gladiator in ancient Rome expects to be \"butchered to make a Roman holiday\" while the audience would take pleasure from watching his suffering. The term suggests debauchery and disorder in addition to sadistic enjoyment.\n\n\"Morose delectation\" (\"delectatio morosa\" in Latin), meaning \"the habit of dwelling with enjoyment on evil thoughts\". was considered by the medieval church to be a sin. French writer Pierre Klossowski maintained that the appeal of sadism is morose delectation.\n\n\"Gloating\" is an English word of similar meaning, where \"gloat\" means \"to observe or think about something with triumphant and often malicious satisfaction, gratification, or delight\" (e.g., to gloat over an enemy's misfortune). Gloating is different from \"Schadenfreude\" in that it does not necessarily require malice (one may gloat to a friend about having defeated him in a game without ill intent), and that it describes an action rather than a state of mind (one typically gloats to the subject of the misfortune or to a third party). Also, unlike \"Schadenfreude\", where the focus is on another's misfortune, gloating often brings to mind inappropriately celebrating or bragging about one's own good fortune without any particular focus on the misfortune of others.\n\nPermutations of the concept of pleasure at another's unhappiness are: pleasure at another's happiness, displeasure at another's happiness, and displeasure at another's unhappiness. Words for these concepts are sometimes cited as antonyms to \"Schadenfreude\", as each is the opposite in some way.\n\nPleasure at another's happiness is described by the Buddhist concept of \"mudita\" or the concept of \"compersion\" in the polyamory community.\n\nDispleasure at another's happiness is involved in envy, and perhaps in jealousy. The recent coinage \"freudenschade\" similarly means sorrow at another's success.\n\nDispleasure at another's unhappiness is sympathy, pity, or compassion.\n\n\"Sadism\" is pleasure derived from the \"infliction\" of pain, whereas schadenfreude is pleasure on \"observing\" misfortune and in particular the fact that the other somehow deserved the misfortune.\n\nNeologisms and portmanteau words were coined from the word as early as 1993, when Lincoln Caplan, in his book \"Skadden: Power, Money, and the Rise of a Legal Empire\", used the word \"Skaddenfreude\" to describe the delight that competitors of Skadden Arps took in its troubles of the early 1990s. Others include \"spitzenfreude\", coined by \"The Economist\" to refer to the fall of Eliot Spitzer and \"Schadenford\", coined by \"Toronto Life\" in regard to Canadian politician Rob Ford.\n\nThe Book of Proverbs mentions an emotion similar to \"Schadenfreude\": \"Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth: Lest the LORD see it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him.\" (Proverbs 24:17–18, King James Version).\n\nIn the \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle used \"epikhairekakia\" (ἐπιχαιρεκακία in Greek) as part of a triad of terms, in which \"epikhairekakia\" stands as the opposite of \"phthonos\" (φθόνος), and \"nemesis\" (νέμεσις) occupies the mean. \"Nemesis\" is \"a painful response to another's undeserved good fortune\", while \"phthonos\" is a painful response to any good fortune, deserved or not. The \"epikhairekakos\" (ἐπιχαιρέκακος) person takes pleasure in another's ill fortune.\n\nLucretius characterises the emotion in an extended simile in \"De rerum natura\": \"Suave, mari magno turbantibus aequora ventis, e terra magnum alterius spectare laborem\", \"It is pleasant to watch from the land the great struggle of someone else in a sea rendered great by turbulent winds.\" The abbreviated Latin tag \"suave mare magno\" recalled the passage to generations familiar with the Latin classics.\n\nCaesarius of Heisterbach regards \"delight in the adversity of a neighbour\" as one of the \"daughters of envy ... which follows anger\" in his \"Dialogue on Miracles\".\n\nDuring the 17th century, Robert Burton wrote in his work \"The Anatomy of Melancholy\", \"Out of these two [the concupiscible and irascible powers] arise those mixed affections and passions of anger, which is a desire of revenge; hatred, which is inveterate anger; zeal, which is offended with him who hurts that he loves; and ἐπιχαιρεκακία, a compound affection of joy and hate, when we rejoice at other men's mischief, and are grieved at their prosperity; pride, self-love, emulation, envy, shame, &c., of which elsewhere.\"\n\nThe philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer mentioned \"Schadenfreude\" as the most evil sin of human feeling, famously saying \"To feel envy is human, to savor schadenfreude is diabolic.\"\n\nRabbi Harold S. Kushner in his book \"When Bad Things Happen to Good People\" describes \"Schadenfreude\" as a universal, even wholesome reaction that cannot be helped. \"There is a German psychological term, \"Schadenfreude\", which refers to the embarrassing reaction of relief we feel when something bad happens to someone else instead of to us.\" He gives examples and writes, \"[People] don't wish their friends ill, but they can’t help feeling an embarrassing spasm of gratitude that [the bad thing] happened to someone else and not to them.\"\n\nSusan Sontag's book \"Regarding the Pain of Others\", published in 2003, is a study of the issue of how the pain and misfortune of some people affects others, namely whether war photography and war paintings may be helpful as anti-war tools, or whether they only serve some sense of \"Schadenfreude\" in some viewers.\n\nPhilosopher and sociologist Theodor Adorno defined schadenfreude as \"... largely unanticipated delight in the suffering of another, which is cognized as trivial and/or appropriate.\"\n\nA \"New York Times\" article in 2002 cited a number of scientific studies of \"Schadenfreude\", which it defined as \"delighting in others' misfortune\". Many such studies are based on social comparison theory, the idea that when people around us have bad luck, we look better to ourselves. Other researchers have found that people with low self-esteem are more likely to feel \"Schadenfreude\" than are those who have high self-esteem.\n\nA 2003 study examined intergroup \"Schadenfreude\" within the context of sports, specifically an international football (soccer) competition. The study focused on the German and Dutch football teams and their fans. The results of this study indicated that the emotion of\"Schadenfreude\" is very sensitive to circumstances that make it more or less legitimate to feel such malicious pleasure towards a sports rival.\n\nA 2011 study by Cikara and colleagues using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) examined \"Schadenfreude\" among Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees fans, and found that fans showed increased activation in brain areas correlated with self-reported pleasure (ventral striatum) when observing the rival team experience a negative outcome (e.g., a strikeout). By contrast, fans exhibited increased activation in the anterior cingulate and insula when viewing their own team experience a negative outcome.\n\nA 2006 experiment about justice served suggests that men, but not women, enjoy seeing \"bad people\" suffer. The study was designed to measure empathy, by watching which brain centers are stimulated when subjects observed via fMRI see someone experiencing physical pain. Researchers expected that the brain's empathy center of subjects would show more stimulation when those seen as \"good\" got an electric shock, than would occur if the shock was given to someone the subject had reason to consider \"bad\". This was indeed the case, but for male subjects, the brain's pleasure centers also lit up when someone got a shock that the male thought was \"well-deserved\".\n\nBrain-scanning studies show that \"Schadenfreude\" is correlated with envy in subjects. Strong feelings of envy activated physical pain nodes in the brain's dorsal anterior cingulate cortex; the brain's reward centers, such as the ventral striatum, were activated by news that other people envied had suffered misfortune. The magnitude of the brain's \"Schadenfreude\" response could even be predicted from the strength of the previous envy response.\n\nA study conducted in 2009 provides evidence for people's capacity to feel \"Schadenfreude\" in response to negative events in politics. The study was designed to determine whether or not there was a possibility that events containing objective misfortunes might produce \"Schadenfreude\". It was reported in the study that the likelihood of experiencing feelings of \"Schadenfreude\" depends upon whether an individual's own party or the opposing party is suffering harm. This study suggests that the domain of politics is prime territory for feelings of \"Schadenfreude\", especially for those who identify strongly with their political party.\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "36681001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36681001", "title": "Self-licensing", "text": "Self-licensing\n\nSelf-licensing (aka noble cause corruption, moral self-licensing, moral licensing, licensing effect, moral credential effect) is a term used in social psychology and marketing to describe the subconscious phenomenon whereby increased confidence and security in one’s self-image or self-concept tends to make that individual worry less about the consequences of subsequent immoral behavior and, therefore, more likely to make immoral choices and act immorally. In simple terms, self-licensing occurs when people allow themselves to indulge after doing something positive first; for example, drinking a diet soda with a greasy hamburger and fries can lead one to subconsciously discount the negative attributes of the meal’s high caloric and cholesterol content.\n\nA large subset of this effect, the moral credential effect, is a bias that occurs when a person's track record as a good egalitarian establishes in them an unconscious ethical certification, endorsement, or license that increases the likelihood of less egalitarian decisions later. This effect occurs even when the audience or moral peer group is unaware of the affected person's previously established moral credential. For example, individuals who had the opportunity to recruit a woman or African American person in one setting were more likely to say later, in a different setting, that a job would be better suited for a man or a Caucasian person. Similar effects also appear to occur when a person observes another person from a group they identify with making an egalitarian decision.\n\nSelf-licensing can have negative societal consequences since it has a permissive effect on behaviors such as racial prejudice and discrimination, selfishness, poor dietary and health habits, and excessive energy consumption.\nResearchers Uzma Khan and Ravi Dhar describe the phenomena as follows:\n\nSimilarly, Anna Merritt and colleagues have explained that\n\nIt has been found that moral credentials can be obtained vicariously. That is, a person will behave as if they themselves have moral credentials when that person observes another person from a group they identify with making an egalitarian decision. In research that draws on social identity theory it was also found that group membership moderates the effectiveness of moral credentials in mitigating perceptions of prejudice. Specifically, it was observed that displays of moral credentials have more effect between people who share in-group status.\n\nResearch suggests that self-licensing affects moral self-regulation and individual behavior in a variety of contexts; for example, it can influence consumer purchases, political opinions, charitable giving, energy policy and home energy use, job hiring, racial attitudes, health-related decision-making, risky sexual behavior, alcohol consumption, and dietary supplement use. Washington Post staff writer Michael Rosenwald described the following everyday examples of self-licensing behavior:\n\nA 2011 study published by researchers in Taiwan indicated that people who take multivitamin pills, especially those who believe that they are receiving significant health benefits from supplement use, are more prone to subsequently engage in unhealthy activities. Participants in the study were divided into two groups, both of which were given placebo pills; one group was correctly informed that the pills contained no active ingredients and the other group was told that the pills were multivitamin supplements. Survey results showed that participants who thought that they had received a multivitamin were predisposed to smoking more cigarettes and more likely to believe that they were invulnerable to harm, injury, and disease as compared with subjects who knew that they were given a placebo. Participants who believed they were given a multivitamin were also less likely to exercise and to choose healthier food, and had a higher desire to engage in \"hedonic activities that involve instant gratification but pose long-term health hazards\", such as casual sex, sunbathing, wild parties, and excessive drinking. In the 'multivitamin' group, the more supplements a participant used, the less likely they were to exercise, and smoking was highest among participants who expressed a conscious belief that multivitamins increased health. \nThe study's authors argued that because dietary supplements are perceived as conferring health advantages, use of such supplements may create an illusory sense of invulnerability that disinhibits unhealthy behaviors. Overall, the study shows that people who take supplements may feel that merely taking a pill is a sufficient contribution to healthful living to enjoy other activities without regard to health, and it exposes a potential hypocrisy among supplement users. The authors advised:\n\nCommenting on the implications of the study, Ben Goldacre said:\n\nResearchers Khan and Dhar investigated the influence of self-licensing on consumer decisions regarding the purchase of luxury goods. They reasoned that \"relative preferences for a luxury option will be higher if people's prior decisions provide a boost to their relevant self-concept\". Due to the self-licensing effect, \"a prior intent to be virtuous boosts respondents' self-concepts, thus reducing negative self-attributions associated with the purchase of relative luxuries\". Furthermore, they predicted that consumers may be unaware of how their prior decision influences their subsequent choices; i.e. the process underlying the licensing effect may be largely nonconscious. In the study, some participants were first asked to select from a list a charity organizations for which they would willingly volunteer three hours a week. Later, these people—and participants who hadn't been asked to volunteer—were asked whether they would buy designer jeans or an identically priced vacuum cleaner, assuming that they had enough money to buy only one. Participants who were asked to imagine having committed the charitable act before shopping were more than twice as likely to choose the jeans. The authors noted that \"People don't even have to do good for this effect to happen…Even if they plan to do something good, it will give them a boost in their self-image. Any type of situation where you have guilt involved, you will see this, and so this happens in luxury goods.\"\n\nA study by University of Toronto behavioral marketing professor Nina Mazar and Chen-Bo Zhong found that people who bought green products were more likely to cheat and steal than those who bought conventional products. The researchers conducted an experiment in which they asked college students to shop for products online from either an eco-friendly or a conventional store. Each subject was then asked to divide a small sum of money between themselves and a stranger in a paradigm known as the dictator game, in which participants can cheat to make more money. The shoppers from the green store were more dishonest than those at the conventional store, which brought them higher earnings in the game. The authors suggested that the results could be accounted for by the licensing effect, noting that \"When we engage in a good deed, that gives us a kind of satisfaction. With that self-satisfied feeling can come tacit permission to behave more selfishly next time we have the opportunity\". The authors added that \"purchasing green products may license indulgence in self-interested and unethical behaviors\", and concluded:\n\nResearchers have invoked the self-licensing effect to explain why consumers who opt for energy-efficient products increase their energy usage so as to offset any potential gains. Energy economist Lucas Davis published a study showing that after getting high-efficiency washers, consumers increased clothes washing by nearly 6 percent. Other studies have shown that people leave energy-efficient lights on longer than conventional lights, and that many people who make their homes more energy efficient turn their heating up and ultimately see no reduction in energy costs.\n\nThe self-licensing effect was examined by Monin and Miller in a 2001 study which demonstrated that when participants established credentials as non-prejudiced persons, they were more willing to express politically incorrect opinions despite the fact that the audience was unaware of their credentials. Subsequent research by Monin and Daniel Effron showed that an opportunity to endorse Barack Obama during the 2008 presidential election made his supporters more likely to express views that favored Whites at the expense of African-Americans. Essentially, the endorsement made people feel like they had shown that they were not biased, giving them a license to subsequently express racially prejudicial views.\n\n"}
{"id": "3824307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3824307", "title": "Sforzinda", "text": "Sforzinda\n\nSforzinda is a visionary ideal city named after Francesco Sforza, then Duke of Milan. It was designed by Renaissance architect Antonio di Pietro Averlino (c. 1400 - c. 1469), also known as \"Averulino\" or Filarete. Although Sforzinda was never built, certain aspects of its design are described in considerable detail. The basic layout of the city is an eight point star, created by overlaying two squares so that all the corners were equidistant. This shape is then inscribed within a perfect circular moat. This shape is iconographic and probably ties to Filarete’s interest in magic and astrology. Consistent with \"Quattrocento\" or fifteenth century notions concerning the talismanic power of geometry and the crucial importance of astrology, Filarete provides, in addition to pragmatic advice on materials, construction, and fortifications, notes on how to propitiate celestial harmony within Sforzinda.\n\nIn terms of planning, each of the outer points of the star had towers, while the inner angles had gates. Each of the gates was an outlet of radial avenues that each passed through a market square, dedicated to certain goods. All the avenues finally converged in a large square which was centrally located. The town contained three squares – one for the prince’s palace, one for the cathedral, and one for the market. Because the Renaissance was much taken with the idea of the canal town, in Filarete's Sforzinda every other street had a canal for cargo transport. The canal system also connected with the river, and thus the outside world, for the import and export of goods. The city also contained many buildings, including parishes and separate schools for boys and girls. An example of a building that appears in the treatise is Filarete’s House of Vice and Virtue, a ten-story structure with a brothel on the bottom and an academy of learning on the higher levels. Filarete did much study on representation of Vices and Virtues, and there are suggestions that his radial design for the city was inspired by St. Augustine’s Earthly City, whose circular shape was divided into sections, each of which had its own Vice and Virtue.\n\nThe design of Sforzinda may have been in part a direct response to the congested cities of the Medieval period, whose organic growth did not ordinarily depend on conscious city planning, which meant they could be difficult to navigate or control. In part, the Renaissance humanist interest in classical texts may have stimulated preoccupations with geometry in city layouts, as for example, in Plato's description of Atlantis. Filarete’s ideal plan was meant to reflect on society – where a perfect city form would be the image of a perfect society, an idea that was typical of the humanist views prevalent during the Renaissance. The Renaissance ideal city, implied the centralized power of a prince in its organization, an idea following closely on the heels of Dante’s that “The human race is at its best under a monarch.” Thus it could be argued that the Renaissance ideal city form was tensioned between the perceived need for a centralized power and the potential reality of tyranny.\n"}
{"id": "2552726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2552726", "title": "Spinozism", "text": "Spinozism\n\nSpinozism (also spelled Spinozaism) is the monist philosophical system of Benedict de Spinoza that defines \"God\" as a singular self-subsistent Substance, with both matter and thought being attributes of such.\n\nIn a letter to Henry Oldenburg, Spinoza wrote: \"as to the view of certain people that I identify god with nature (taken as a kind of mass or corporeal matter), they are quite mistaken\". For Spinoza, our universe (cosmos) is a \"mode\" under two \"attributes\" of Thought and Extension. God has infinitely many other attributes which are not present in our world. According to German philosopher Karl Jaspers, when Spinoza wrote \"Deus sive Natura\" (\"God or Nature\") Spinoza meant God was \"Natura naturans\" not \"Natura naturata\", that is, \"a dynamic nature in action, growing and changing, not a passive or static thing.\"\n\nIn Spinozism, the concept of a personal relationship with God comes from the position that one is a part of an infinite interdependent \"organism.\" Spinoza argued that everything is a derivative of God, interconnected with all of existence. Although humans experience only thought and extension, what happens to one aspect of existence will affect others. Thus, Spinozism teaches a form of determinism and ecology, and uses these as a basis for morality.\n\nAdditionally, a core doctrine of Spinozism is that the universe is essentially deterministic. All that happens or will happen could not have unfolded in any other way. Spinoza claimed that the third kind of knowledge, intuition, is the highest kind. More specifically, he defined intuition as the ability of the human intellect to intuit knowledge based upon its accumulated understanding of the world.\n\nSpinoza's metaphysics consists of one thing, Substance, and its modifications (modes). Early in \"The Ethics\" Spinoza argues that there is only one Substance, which is absolutely infinite, self-caused, and eternal. Substance causes an infinite number of attributes (the intellect perceiving an abstract concept or essence) and modes (things following from attributes and modes). He calls this Substance \"God\", or \"Nature\". In fact, he takes these two terms to be synonymous (in the Latin the phrase he uses is \"Deus sive Natura\"), but readers often disregard his neutral monism. During his time, this statement was seen as literally equating the existing world with God - for which he was accused of atheism. Spinoza asserted that the whole of the natural universe is made of one Substance – God or Nature – and its modifications (modes).\n\nOne should, however, remember the neutral monist position. While the natural universe humans experience in the realm of mind and physical reality is part of God, it is only two modes – thought and extension – that are part of infinite modes emanating from God.\n\nSpinoza's doctrine was considered radical at the time he published, and he was widely seen as the most infamous atheist-heretic of Europe. His philosophy was part of the philosophic debate in Europe during the Enlightenment, along with Cartesianism. Specifically, Spinoza disagreed with Descartes on substance duality, Descartes' views on the will and the intellect, and the subject of free will.\n\nSpinoza defines \"Substance\" as follows:\n\nThis means, essentially, that Substance is just whatever can be thought of without relating it to any other idea or thing. For example, if one thinks of a particular object, one thinks of it as a kind of thing, \"e.g.\", \"x\" is a cat. Substance, on the other hand, is to be conceived of by itself, without understanding it as a particular kind of thing, because it isn't a particular thing.\n\nSpinoza defines \"attribute\" as follows:\n\nFrom this it can be seen that Attributes are related to Substance. It is not clear, however, even from Spinoza's direct definition, whether, a) Attributes are really the way(s) Substance is, or b) Attributes are simply ways to understand Substance, but not necessarily the ways it really is.\nSpinoza thinks that there are an \"infinite\" number of Attributes, but there are two Attributes for which Spinoza thinks we can have knowledge. Namely, \"thought\" and \"extension\".\n\nThe attribute of thought is how Substance can be understood to be composed of thoughts, \"i.e.\", thinking things. When we understand a particular thing through the Attribute of thought, we are understanding the mode as an \"idea\" of something (either another idea, or an object).\n\nThe Attribute of extension is how Substance can be understood to be physically extended in space. Particular things that occupy space are what is meant by \"extended\". It follows from this that if Substance and God are identical, in Spinoza's view, and contrary to the traditional conception, God has extension as one of his Attributes.\n\nModes are particular modifications of substance, \"i.e.\", particular things in the world. Spinoza gives the following definition:\nThe argument for there only being one Substance (or, more colloquially, one kind of stuff) in the universe occurs in the first fourteen propositions of \"The Ethics.\" The following proposition expresses Spinoza's commitment to substance monism:\n\nSpinoza takes this proposition to follow directly from everything he says prior to it. Spinoza's monism is contrasted with Descartes' dualism and Leibniz's pluralism. Thus, Spinoza avoids the unsolvable problem of how mind and body interact, which troubled Descartes in his \"Meditations on First Philosophy.\" Specifically, how can immaterial mind interface with material body, and vice-versa? They exist in wholly different categories.\n\nThe issue of causality and modality (possibility and necessity) in Spinoza's philosophy is contentious. Spinoza's philosophy is, in one sense, thoroughly deterministic (or necessitarian). This can be seen directly from Axiom 3 of \"The Ethics\":\n\nYet Spinoza seems to make room for a kind of freedom, especially in the fifth and final section of \"The Ethics\", \"On the Power of the Intellect, or on Human Freedom\":\n\nSo Spinoza certainly has a use for the word 'freedom', but he equates \"Freedom of Mind\" with \"blessedness\", a notion which is not traditionally associated with freedom of the will at all.\n\nThough the PSR is most commonly associated with Gottfried Leibniz, it is arguably found in its strongest form in Spinoza's philosophy.\nWithin the context of Spinoza's philosophical system, the PSR can be understood to unify causation and explanation. What this means is that for Spinoza, questions regarding the \"reason\" why a given phenomenon is the way it is (or exists) are always answerable, and are always answerable in terms of the relevant cause(s). This constitutes a rejection of teleological, or final causation, except possibly in a more restricted sense for human beings. Given this, Spinoza's views regarding causality and modality begin to make much more sense.\n\nSpinoza's philosophy contains as a key proposition the notion that mental and physical (thought and extension) phenomena occur in parallel, but without causal interaction between them. He expresses this proposition as follows:\n\nHis proof of this proposition is that:\n\nThe reason Spinoza thinks parallelism follows from this axiom is that, since the idea we have of each thing requires knowledge of its cause, such a cause must be understood under the same attribute. Further, there is only one substance, so whenever we understand some chain of ideas concerning things, we understand that the way the ideas are causally related must be the same as the way the things themselves are related, since the ideas and the things are the same modes, but understood under different attributes.\n\nIn 1785, Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi published a condemnation of Spinoza's pantheism, after Gotthold Ephraim Lessing was thought to have confessed on his deathbed to being a \"Spinozist\", which was the equivalent in his time of being called a heretic. Jacobi claimed that Spinoza's doctrine was pure materialism, because all Nature and God are said to be nothing but extended substance. This, for Jacobi, was the result of Enlightenment rationalism and it would finally end in absolute atheism. Moses Mendelssohn disagreed with Jacobi, saying that there is no actual difference between theism and pantheism. The entire issue became a major intellectual and religious concern for European civilization at the time, which Immanuel Kant rejected, as he thought that attempts to conceive of transcendent reality would lead to antinomies (statements that could be proven both right and wrong) in thought.\n\nThe attraction of Spinoza's philosophy to late eighteenth-century Europeans was that it provided an alternative to materialism, atheism, and deism. Three of Spinoza's ideas strongly appealed to them:\n\nSpinoza's \"God or Nature\" [\"Deus sive Natura\"] provided a living, natural God, in contrast to the Newtonian mechanical \"First Cause\" or the dead mechanism of the French \"Man Machine.\" Coleridge and Shelley saw in Spinoza's philosophy a \"religion of nature\" and called him the \"God-intoxicated Man.\" Spinoza inspired the poet Shelley to write his essay \"The Necessity of Atheism.\"\n\nSpinoza was considered to be an atheist because he used the word \"God\" [Deus] to signify a concept that was different from that of traditional Judeo–Christian monotheism. \"Spinoza expressly denies personality and consciousness to God; he has neither intelligence, feeling, nor will; he does not act according to purpose, but everything follows necessarily from his nature, according to law...\" Thus, Spinoza's cool, indifferent God differs from the concept of an anthropomorphic, fatherly God who cares about humanity.\n\nGerman philosopher Karl Jaspers believed that Spinoza, in his philosophical system, did not mean to say that God and Nature are interchangeable terms, but rather that God's transcendence was attested by his infinitely many attributes, and that two attributes known by humans, namely Thought and Extension, signified God's \"immanence\". Even God under the attributes of thought and extension cannot be identified strictly with our world. That world is of course \"divisible\"; it has parts. But Spinoza insists that \"no attribute of a substance can be truly conceived from which it follows that the substance can be divided\" (Which means that one cannot conceive an attribute in a way that leads to division of substance), and that \"a substance which is absolutely infinite is indivisible\" (\"Ethics\", Part I, Propositions 12 and 13). Following this logic, our world should be considered as a mode under two attributes of thought and extension. Therefore, the pantheist formula \"One and All\" would apply to Spinoza only if the \"One\" preserves its transcendence and the \"All\" were not interpreted as the totality of finite things.\n\nFrench philosopher Martial Guéroult suggested the term \"panentheism\", rather than \"pantheism\" to describe Spinoza's view of the relation between God and the world. The world is not God, but it is, in a strong sense, \"in\" God. Not only do finite things have God as their cause; they cannot be conceived without God. In other words, the world is a subset of God. American philosopher Charles Hartshorne, on the other hand, suggested the term \"Classical Pantheism\" to describe Spinoza's philosophy.\n\nSimilarities between Spinoza's philosophy and Eastern philosophical traditions have been discussed by many authorities. The 19th-century German Sanskritist Theodore Goldstücker was one of the early figures to notice the similarities between Spinoza's religious conceptions and the Vedanta tradition of India, writing that Spinoza's thought was \"... a western system of philosophy which occupies a foremost rank amongst the philosophies of all nations and ages, and which is so exact a representation of the ideas of the Vedanta, that we might have suspected its founder to have borrowed the fundamental principles of his system from the Hindus, did his biography not satisfy us that he was wholly unacquainted with their doctrines... We mean the philosophy of Spinoza, a man whose very life is a picture of that moral purity and intellectual indifference to the transitory charms of this world, which is the constant longing of the true Vedanta philosopher... comparing the fundamental ideas of both we should have no difficulty in proving that, had Spinoza been a Hindu, his system would in all probability mark a last phase of the Vedanta philosophy.\"\n\nIt has been said that Spinozism is similar to the Hindu doctrines of Samkhya and Yoga. Though within the various existing Indian traditions there exist many traditions which astonishingly had such similar doctrines from ages, out of which most similar and well known are the Kashmiri Shaivism and Nath tradition, apart from already existing Samkhya and Yoga.\n\nMax Muller, in his lectures, noted the striking similarities between Vedanta and the system of Spinoza, saying \"the Brahman, as conceived in the Upanishads and defined by Sankara, is clearly the same as Spinoza's 'Substantia'.\" Helena Blavatsky, a founder of the Theosophical Society also compared Spinoza's religious thought to Vedanta, writing in an unfinished essay \"As to Spinoza's Deity – natura naturans – conceived in his attributes simply and alone; and the same Deity – as natura naturata or as conceived in the endless series of modifications or correlations, the direct outflowing results from the properties of these attributes, it is the Vedantic Deity pure and simple.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58703188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58703188", "title": "Symbolic equation", "text": "Symbolic equation\n\nSymbolic equation is the term used in Kleinian psychoanalysis for states of thinking which equate current objects with those of the past, rather than finding a \"resemblance\" between the two sets.\n\nHanna Segal developed the concept of the symbolic equation in the 1950s, during her examination of concrete thinking in the schizophrenic. Its roots however have been traced back as far as Freud's \"Studies on Hysteria\" of 1895, where he noted how a phrase like a 'stab in the heart' could be concretised in terms of the original physical sensations behind it, so that \"we find a symbolic version in concrete images and sensations of more artificial turns of speech\".\n\nSymbolic equations have been connected to the splitting of the paranoid-schizoid position; alternatively they can be seen as the result of a failure to make distinctions between self and others, or between real and idealised objects.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "673794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=673794", "title": "Symbolic speech", "text": "Symbolic speech\n\nSymbolic speech is a legal term in United States law used to describe actions that purposefully and discernibly convey a particular message or statement to those viewing it. Symbolic speech is recognized as being protected under the First Amendment as a form of speech, but this is not expressly written as such in the document. One possible explanation as to why the Framers did not address this issue in the Bill of Rights is because the primary forms for both political debate and protest in their time were verbal expression and published word, and they may have been unaware of the possibility of future people using non-verbal expression. Symbolic speech is distinguished from pure speech, which is the communication of ideas through spoken or written words or through conduct limited in form to that necessary to convey the idea.\n\nAlthough the First Amendment only limited the Congress, symbolic speech has also restricted state governments starting with \"Gitlow v. New York\" (1925).\n\nWhile writing the majority opinion for \"United States v. O'Brien\", Chief Justice Warren described a series of guidelines used to determine whether a law that restricts speech violates the First Amendment. These guidelines must remain neutral in relation to the subject of the speech at hand (i.e., a speech that criticizes government action and is believed to violate a law must be treated the same way as a speech under identical circumstance, but praises the government as opposed to criticizing.) The \"O'Brien\" test is not meant to be the absolute deciding factor in cases involving non-verbal speech, but an additional tool to invoke against prohibitions. The \"O'Brien\" test is thus: The law in question must\n\nIn December 1965, a group of five students, including lead plaintiff John Tinker and his sister Mary Beth Tinker, wore black armbands overlaid with a white peace sign between the dates of December 16 and New Years Day. The principals of the students' schools had previously threatened to suspend any students who participated in the protest. Despite the warning, the small group of students proceeded to carry out their dissent, and were duly suspended. ACLU attorneys representing the students argued that the armbands constituted a form of symbolic speech and, because their demonstration was suppressed, their First Amendment rights were unconstitutionally restrained. The court voted 7–2 in favor of Tinker, finding that the suspension had violated the First Amendment. Justice Fortas, delivering the opinion of the court, held the following:\n\n\"On the morning of March 31, 1966, David Paul O'Brien and three companions burned their Selective Service registration certificates on the steps of the South Boston Courthouse. A sizable crowd, including several agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, witnessed the event. Immediately after the burning, members of the crowd began attacking O'Brien and his companions. An FBI agent ushered O'Brien to safety inside the courthouse. After he was advised of his right to counsel and to silence, O'Brien stated to FBI agents that he had burned his registration certificate because of his beliefs, knowing that he was violating federal law. He produced the charred remains of the certificate, which, with his consent, were photographed.\n\nFor this act, O'Brien was indicted, tried, convicted, and sentenced in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. He did not contest the fact that he had burned the certificate. He stated in argument to the jury that he burned the certificate publicly to influence others to adopt his anti-war beliefs, as he put it, \"so that other people would reevaluate their positions with Selective Service, with the armed forces, and reevaluate their place in the culture of today, to hopefully consider my position.\"\n\nThe court ruled 7–1 against O'Brien. In the opinion of the court, Chief Justice Warren wrote that while the First Amendment does protect freedom of speech, it does not protect all things that may extraneously be labeled 'symbolic speech'. As such, O'Brien's protest was not protected because the United States had a compelling interest in preventing the destruction or mutilation of draft cards. To help himself and future justices determine what may be protected under the free speech clause, he developed a series of requirements that laws must meet in order to stay out of conflict with the First, and thus be considered constitutional, known now as the \"O'Brien\" test.\n\nIn 1984, during a protest against the policies of the Reagan administration in Dallas, Texas, Gregory Lee Johnson doused an American flag that was given to him by a fellow demonstrator with kerosene and set it alight while those around him chanted \"America the red, white and blue, we spit on you.\" He was later arrested and convicted on a flag desecration law in Texas, and sentenced to one year in prison and a $2,000 fine. \nThe court ruled 5 to 4 in favor of Johnson. Justice Brennan wrote that because such other actions in relation to the flag (such as saluting, and displaying) are considered to be a form of expression, so must too the burning be, and that Johnson's protest was \"'Sufficiently imbued with elements of communication' to implicate the First Amendment.\" He also explained that the relevance of the \"O'Brien\" test is limited \"in which 'the governmental interest is unrelated to the suppression of free expression'\", as the Texas law in question had its interest in preventing any violent reaction that may spring from those witnessing the burning of the flag. This case helped solidify the condition that any law that inhibits freedom of speech must have an important and compelling interest to do so.\n\nIn 1968, Paul Cohen entered a Los Angeles Courthouse wearing a jacket that displayed the words \"Fuck the Draft\" knowing that the jacket displayed these words. Though he had removed the jacket and placed it under his arm before entering the courthouse, a police officer witnessed the jacket and slogan in the corridor and arrested him for \"willingly and unlawfully and maliciously disturbing the peace and quiet by engaging in tumultuous and offensive conduct.\" \n\nThe Court voted 5–4 in favor of Cohen. Justice Harlan wrote \"[A]bsent a more particularized and compelling reason for its actions, the State may not, consistently with the First and Fourteenth Amendments, make the simple public display of this single four-letter expletive a criminal offense.\" In the court's opinion, Harlan also penned the now famous line \"one man's vulgarity is another's lyric\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33925730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33925730", "title": "Tootling", "text": "Tootling\n\nTootling is a classroom-based intervention used to increase peer prosocial behaviors, particularly offering and receiving help, while decreasing negative and disruptive peer interactions. Tootling is like tattling but refers to the reporting of only positive, rather than inappropriate, social behaviors. The idea behind this concept is if young children can learn to tattle on inappropriate behavior, then they are capable of monitoring and reporting prosocial behavior. The objective of tootling is to get students to engage in more prosocial behaviors and to be aware and appreciative of these behaviors in others. Tootling is also helpful for teachers to foster awareness of positive behaviors and increase praise while downplaying a focus on negative behaviors and punishment. The word \"tootling\" is a combination of \"tattling\" (monitoring and reporting classmates antisocial behavior) and the expression \"tooting your own horn\". Tootling differs from \"tattling\" because students report incidental instances of prosocial behavior, rather than negative. Tootling meets key criteria for classroom-based positive behavior support (PBS) and can be used in general and special education settings. In addition, tootling was considered a best practice strategy for special education instructors for providing an inclusive classroom.\n\nTootling Process\n\n"}
{"id": "132729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=132729", "title": "Tuple", "text": "Tuple\n\nIn mathematics, a tuple is a finite ordered list (sequence) of elements. An -tuple is a sequence (or ordered list) of elements, where is a non-negative integer. There is only one 0-tuple, an empty sequence, or empty tuple, as it is referred to. An -tuple is defined inductively using the construction of an ordered pair.\n\nMathematicians usually write tuples by listing the elements within parentheses \"formula_1\" and separated by commas; for example, formula_2 denotes a 5-tuple. Sometimes other symbols are used to surround the elements, such as square brackets \"[ ]\" or angle brackets \"< >\". Braces \"{ }\" are only used in defining arrays in some programming languages such as Java and Visual Basic, but not in mathematical expressions, as they are the standard notation for sets. The term \"tuple\" can often occur when discussing other mathematical objects, such as vectors.\n\nIn computer science, tuples come in many forms. In dynamically typed languages, such as Lisp, lists are commonly used as tuples. Most typed functional programming languages implement tuples directly as product types, tightly associated with algebraic data types, pattern matching, and destructuring assignment. Many programming languages offer an alternative to tuples, known as record types, featuring unordered elements accessed by label. A few programming languages combine ordered tuple product types and unordered record types into a single construct, as in C structs and Haskell records. Relational databases may formally identify their rows (records) as \"tuples\".\n\nTuples also occur in relational algebra; when programming the semantic web with the Resource Description Framework (RDF); in linguistics; and in philosophy.\n\nThe term originated as an abstraction of the sequence: single, double, triple, quadruple, quintuple, sextuple, septuple, octuple, ..., ‑tuple, ..., where the prefixes are taken from the Latin names of the numerals. The unique 0‑tuple is called the null tuple. A 1‑tuple is called a singleton, a 2‑tuple is called an ordered pair and a 3‑tuple is a triple or triplet. can be any nonnegative integer. For example, a complex number can be represented as a 2‑tuple, a quaternion can be represented as a 4‑tuple, an octonion can be represented as an 8‑tuple and a sedenion can be represented as a 16‑tuple.\n\nAlthough these uses treat \"‑tuple\" as the suffix, the original suffix was \"‑ple\" as in \"triple\" (three-fold) or \"decuple\" (ten‑fold). This originates from medieval Latin \"plus\" (meaning \"more\") related to Greek ‑πλοῦς, which replaced the classical and late antique \"‑plex\" (meaning \"folded\"), as in \"duplex\".\n\nThe general rule for the identity of two -tuples is\n\nThus a tuple has properties that distinguish it from a set.\n\nThere are several definitions of tuples that give them the properties described in the previous section.\n\nIf we are dealing with sets, an -tuple can be regarded as a function, , whose domain is the tuple's implicit set of element indices, , and whose codomain, , is the tuple's set of elements. Formally:\nwhere:\nIn slightly less formal notation this says:\n\nAnother way of modeling tuples in Set Theory is as nested ordered pairs. This approach assumes that the notion of ordered pair has already been defined; thus a 2-tuple \nThis definition can be applied recursively to the -tuple:\n\nThus, for example:\n\nA variant of this definition starts \"peeling off\" elements from the other end:\nThis definition can be applied recursively:\n\nThus, for example:\n\nUsing Kuratowski's representation for an ordered pair, the second definition above can be reformulated in terms of pure set theory:\n\nIn this formulation:\n\nIn discrete mathematics, especially combinatorics and finite probability theory, -tuples arise in the context of various counting problems and are treated more informally as ordered lists of length . -tuples whose entries come from a set of elements are also called \"arrangements with repetition\", \"permutations of a multiset\" and, in some non-English literature, \"variations with repetition\". The number of -tuples of an -set is . This follows from the combinatorial rule of product. If is a finite set of cardinality , this number is the cardinality of the -fold Cartesian power . Tuples are elements of this product set.\n\nIn type theory, commonly used in programming languages, a tuple has a product type; this fixes not only the length, but also the underlying types of each component. Formally:\nand the projections are term constructors:\n\nThe tuple with labeled elements used in the relational model has a record type. Both of these types can be defined as simple extensions of the simply typed lambda calculus.\n\nThe notion of a tuple in type theory and that in set theory are related in the following way: If we consider the natural model of a type theory, and use the Scott brackets to indicate the semantic interpretation, then the model consists of some sets formula_29 (note: the use of italics here that distinguishes sets from types) such that:\nand the interpretation of the basic terms is:\n\nThe -tuple of type theory has the natural interpretation as an -tuple of set theory:\nThe unit type has as semantic interpretation the 0-tuple.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38390287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38390287", "title": "Upeksha (Indian thought)", "text": "Upeksha (Indian thought)\n\nUpeksha in Sanskrit or Upekkha in Pali means equanimity, non-attachment, even-mindedness or letting go. \"Upeksha\" does not mean indifference. It is the fourth element of true love and has as its seed the wisdom of equality that removes all boundaries, discrimination and prejudices while leading to the sublime unity where there is no self and no other; without \"Upeksha\", love becomes possessive. Equanimity or \"Upeksha\" grows out of mindfulness, then one becomes master of every situation no matter what the situation is without it one cannot take anything in one’s stride; its significance is that one really lives unconditionally.\n\nThe understanding that our happiness and that of others is inseparable moves us directly into the fourth \"Brahmavihara\", \"Upeksha\". Equanimity of \"Upeksha\" carries the ability to take a large view and to look over the whole situation not bound by one side or the other, its near-enemy is in-difference which is difficult to recognise because it masquerades on the surface as even-mindedness; indifference causes retreat to a form of denial like repression, don’t care-can’t be bothered attitude. \n\nIn Yoga, \"maîtri\", \"karuna\", \"mudita\" and \"upeksha\" are only different aspects of universal sympathy, which remove all perversities in our nature and unite us with our fellow-men. This is the positive aspect of the mind with reference to abstinence from injuring (\"ahimsa\") which will cleanse the mind and make it fit for \"Śraddhā\" etc., prepare it to become steady with a view to attaining true discriminative knowledge. It is a \"karmasthana\" that holds a very high place in \"sadhana\". Like equality in Bhagavad Gita, \"upeksha\" of the Buddhists operates on many levels, and ten kinds of upeksha are enumerated; it is the equality called the six-limbed upeksha which renounces all the creaturely reactions of the six senses when anything agreeable or disagreeable presents itself. Samadhi may also involve the cultivation of the four states called Brahmaviharas which four states are - \"goodwill\" (\"maîtri\"), \"compassion\" (\"karuna\"), \"sympathetic joy\" (\"mudita\") and \"equanimity\" (\"upeksha\"). Practised to perfection these states take one to pure the mind-states on the plane of formlessness that are proximate to the apex of existence.\n\n\"Upeksha\" as a power includes freedom from all kinds of desires and birth because it has no preference for one thing more than the other. It is opposed to individuality. This power manifests as ten kinds which are – \"Sadangopeksha\" (when there is neither pleasure nor displeasure), \"Brahma-wiharopeksha\" (when the mind is equally affected towards all beings), \"Bowdyangopeksha\" (when the mind is equally affected towards all thoughts), \"Wiryopeksha\" (when the mind is equally affected by the same force of determination), \"Sankharopeksha\" (when the mind is equally affected towards all kinds of wisdom), \"Wedanopeksha\" (when the mind is sensible to neither pleasure nor pain), \"Widarsanopeksha\" (when the mind is not affected by what is seen), \"Tatramadyastopeksha\" (when all modes of upeksha are applied together), \"Dhyanopeksha\" (when the impermanency of sensible-objects is regarded with an even mind)and \"Parisudi-upeksha\" (when the mind is equally affected towards all that is necessary to secure freedom from the cleaving to existence). All upekshas may be possessed by one and the same person but the second cannot be possessed without the first. \n\nAccording to the Theosophists, \"maitri\", \"karuna\", \"mudita\" and \"upeksha\" are the four qualities of a \"Jivanmukta\" who favours \"Sishya\" (\"disciple\") who attains \"mukti\", \"Bhakta\" (\"devotee\") who gains his noble ends, \"Udasina\" (\"indifferent person\") who begins to cherish love for virtuous deeds and \"Pathaka\" (a \"sinner\") whose sins are purged, and whose \"lakshanas\" are \"akkrodha\" (\"absence of hatred\"), \"arogya\" (\"sound health\"), \"jitendriyathawam\" (\"conquest of passions\"), \"daya\" (kindness), \"kshama\" (forbearance), \"janapriyathawa\" (popularity), \"alobha\" (\"absence of avarice\"), \"dathruthawa\" (generosity), \"abhaya\" (courage) and \"nairmalaya\" (cleanliness).\n\nAlong with the four \"upayas\" (sama, dana, bheda and danda) that were then the recognised expedients for application of foreign policy Kamandaka and others had recommended application of Upeksha, Maya and Indrajala in diplomacy; the enemy could be warded off or neutralised by a policy of \"Upeksha\" and absolute indifference to even movements of enemy troops.\n"}
{"id": "689628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=689628", "title": "Virilization", "text": "Virilization\n\nVirilization or masculinization is the biological development of sex differences, changes that make a male body different from a female body. Most of the changes of virilization are produced by androgens. Virilization is most commonly used in three medical and biology of gender contexts: prenatal sexual differentiation, the postnatal changes of normal male puberty, and excessive androgen effects in females.\n\nIn the prenatal period, virilization refers to closure of the perineum, thinning and wrinkling (rugation) of the scrotum, growth of the phallus, and closure of the urethral groove to the tip of the penis. In this context, \"masculinization\" is synonymous with \"virilization.\"\n\nPrenatal virilization of genetic females and undervirilization of genetic males are common causes of ambiguous genitalia and intersex conditions.\n\nPrenatal virilization of a genetically female fetus can occur when an excessive amount of androgen is produced by the fetal adrenal glands or is present in maternal blood. In the severest form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia, complete masculinization of a genetically female fetus results in an apparently normal male anatomy with no palpable testes. More often, the virilization is partial and the genitalia are ambiguous.\n\nIt can also be associated with progestin-induced virilisation.\n\n\"Undervirilization\" can occur if a genetic male cannot produce enough androgen or the body tissues cannot respond to it. Extreme undervirilization occurs when no significant androgen hormones can be produced or the body is completely insensitive to androgens. Both result in a female body. Partial undervirilization produces ambiguous genitalia part-way between male and female. The mildest degree of undervirilization may be a slightly small penis. Examples of undervirilization are androgen insensitivity syndrome, 5 alpha reductase deficiency, and some forms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia.\n\nIn common as well as medical usage, virilization often refers to the process of normal male puberty. These effects include growth of the penis and testes, accelerated growth, development of pubic hair, and other androgenic hair of face, torso, and limbs, deepening of the voice, increased musculature, thickening of the jaw, prominence of the neck cartilage, and broadening of the shoulders.\n\nVirilization can occur in childhood in both males and females due to excessive amounts of androgens. Typical effects of virilization in children are pubic hair, accelerated growth and bone maturation, increased muscle strength, acne, and adult body odor. In males, virilization may signal precocious puberty, while congenital adrenal hyperplasia and androgen producing tumors (usually) of the gonads or adrenals are occasional causes in both sexes.\n\nVirilization in females can manifest as clitoral enlargement, increased muscle strength, acne, hirsutism, frontal hair thinning, deepening of the voice, and menstrual disruption due to anovulation.\nSome of the possible causes of virilization in females are:\n\n\nTransgender people who were medically assigned female at birth sometimes elect to take hormone replacement therapy. This process causes virilization by inducing many of the effects of a typically male puberty. Many of these effects are permanent, but some effects can be reversed if the transgender individual stops or pauses their medical treatment.\n\n\n\nDemasculinization refers to the reversal of virilization. Some but not all aspects of virilization are reversible. Demasculinization occurs naturally with andropause, pathologically with hypogonadism, and artificially or medically with antiandrogens, estrogens, and orchiectomy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "957160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=957160", "title": "Will to power", "text": "Will to power\n\nThe will to power () is a prominent concept in the philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche. The will to power describes what Nietzsche may have believed to be the main driving force in humans – achievement, ambition, and the striving to reach the highest possible position in life. These are all manifestations of the will to power; however, the concept was never systematically defined in Nietzsche's work, leaving its interpretation open to debate.\n\nAlfred Adler incorporated the will to power into his individual psychology. This can be contrasted to the other Viennese schools of psychotherapy: Sigmund Freud's pleasure principle (will to pleasure) and Viktor Frankl's logotherapy (will to meaning). Each of these schools advocates and teaches a very different essential driving force in human beings.\n\nSome of the misconceptions of the will to power, including Nazi appropriation of Nietzsche's philosophy, arise from overlooking Nietzsche's distinction between \"Kraft\" (force) and \"Macht\" (power). \"Kraft\" is primordial strength that may be exercised by anything possessing it, while \"Macht\" is, within Nietzsche's philosophy, closely tied to sublimation and \"self-overcoming\", the conscious channeling of \"Kraft\" for creative purposes.\n\nNietzsche's early thinking was influenced by that of Arthur Schopenhauer, whom he first discovered in 1865. Schopenhauer puts a central emphasis on will and in particular has a concept of the \"will to live\". Writing a generation before Nietzsche, he explained that the universe and everything in it is driven by a primordial will to live, which results in a desire in all living creatures to avoid death and to procreate. For Schopenhauer, this will is the most fundamental aspect of reality – more fundamental even than being.\n\nAnother important influence was Roger Joseph Boscovich, whom Nietzsche discovered and learned about through his reading, in 1866, of Friedrich Albert Lange's 1865 \"Geschichte des Materialismus\" (\"History of Materialism\"). As early as 1872, Nietzsche went on to study Boscovich’s book \"Theoria Philosophia Naturalis\" for himself. Nietzsche makes his only reference in his published works to Boscovich in \"Beyond Good and Evil\", where he declares war on \"soul-atomism\". Boscovich had rejected the idea of \"materialistic atomism\", which Nietzsche calls \"one of the best refuted theories there is\". The idea of centers of force would become central to Nietzsche's later theories of \"will to power\".\n\nAs the 1880s began, Nietzsche began to speak of the \"Desire for Power\" (\"Machtgelüst\"); this appeared in \"The Wanderer and his Shadow\" (1880) and \"Daybreak\" (1881). \"Machtgelüst\", in these works, is the pleasure of the feeling of power and the hunger to overpower.\n\nWilhelm Roux published his \"The Struggle of Parts in the Organism\" (\"Der Kampf der Teile im Organismus\") in 1881, and Nietzsche first read it that year. The book was a response to Darwinian theory, proposing an alternative mode of evolution. Roux was a disciple of and influenced by Ernst Haeckel who believed the struggle for existence occurred at the cellular level. The various cells and tissues struggle for finite resources, so that only the strongest survive. Through this mechanism, the body grows stronger and better adapted. Lacking modern genetic theory, Roux's model assumed a Lamarckian or pangenetic model of inheritance.\n\nNietzsche began to expand on the concept of \"Machtgelüst\" in \"The Gay Science\" (1882), where in a section titled \"On the doctrine of the feeling of power\", he connects the desire for cruelty with the pleasure in the feeling of power. Elsewhere in \"The Gay Science\" he notes that it is only \"in intellectual beings that pleasure, displeasure, and will are to be found\", excluding the vast majority of organisms from the desire for power.\n\nLéon Dumont (1837–77), whose 1875 book \"Théorie Scientifique de La Sensibilité, le Plaisir et la Peine\" Nietzsche read in 1883, seems to have exerted some influence on this concept. Dumont believed that pleasure is related to increases in force. In \"The Wanderer\" and \"Daybreak\", Nietzsche had speculated that pleasures such as cruelty are pleasurable because of exercise of power. But Dumont provided a physiological basis for Nietzsche’s speculation. Dumont’s theory also would have seemed to confirm Nietzsche’s claim that pleasure and pain are reserved for intellectual beings, since, according to Dumont, pain and pleasure require a coming to consciousness and not just a sensing.\n\nIn 1883 Nietzsche coined the phrase \"Wille zur Macht\" in \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\". The concept, at this point, was no longer limited to only those intellectual beings that can actually experience the feeling of power; it now applied to all life. The phrase \"Wille zur Macht\" first appears in part 1, \"1001 Goals\" (1883), then in part 2, in two sections, \"Self-Overcoming\" and \"Redemption\" (later in 1883). \"Self-Overcoming\" describes it in most detail, saying it is an \"unexhausted procreative will of life\". There is will to power where there is life and even the strongest living things will risk their lives for more power. This suggests that the will to power is stronger than the will to survive.\n\nSchopenhauer's \"Will to life\" thus became a subsidiary to the will to power, which is the stronger will. Nietzsche thinks his notion of the will to power is far more useful than Schopenhauer's will to live for explaining various events, especially human behavior—for example, Nietzsche uses the will to power to explain both ascetic, life-denying impulses and strong, life-affirming impulses in the European tradition, as well as both master and slave morality. He also finds the will to power to offer much richer explanations than utilitarianism's notion that all people really want to be happy, or the Platonist's notion that people want to be unified with the Good.\n\nNietzsche read William Rolph’s \"Biologische Probleme\" around mid-1884, and it clearly interested him, for his copy is heavily annotated. He made many notes concerning Rolph. Rolph was another evolutionary anti-Darwinist like Roux, who wished to argue for evolution by a different mechanism than the struggle for existence. Rolph argued that all life seeks primarily to expand itself. Organisms fulfill this need through assimilation, trying to make as much of what is found around them into part of themselves, for example by seeking to increase intake and nutriment. Life forms are naturally insatiable in this way.\n\nNietzsche's next published work was \"Beyond Good and Evil\" (1886), where the influence of Rolph seems apparent. Nietzsche writes,\n\n\"Beyond Good and Evil\" has the most references to \"will to power\" in his published works, appearing in 11 aphorisms. The influence of Rolph and its connection to \"will to power\" also continues in book 5 of \"Gay Science\" (1887) where Nietzsche describes \"will to power\" as the instinct for \"expansion of power\" fundamental to all life.\n\nKarl Wilhelm von Nägeli's 1884 book \"Mechanisch-physiologische Theorie der Abstammungslehre\", which Nietzsche acquired around 1886 and subsequently read closely, also had considerable influence on his theory of will to power. Nietzsche wrote a letter to Franz Overbeck about it, noting that it has \"been sheepishly put aside by Darwinists\". Nägeli believed in a \"perfection principle\", which led to greater complexity. He called the seat of heritability the idioplasma, and argued, with a military metaphor, that a more complex, complicatedly ordered idioplasma would usually defeat a simpler rival. In other words, he is also arguing for internal evolution, similar to Roux, except emphasizing complexity as the main factor instead of strength.\n\nThus, Dumont’s pleasure in the expansion of power, Roux’s internal struggle, Nägeli’s drive towards complexity, and Rolph’s principle of insatiability and assimilation are fused together into the biological side of Nietzsche’s theory of will to power, which is developed in a number of places in his published writings. Having derived the \"will to power\" from three anti-Darwin evolutionists, as well as Dumont, it seems appropriate that he should use his \"will to power\" as an anti-Darwinian explanation of evolution. He expresses a number of times the idea that adaptation and the struggle to survive is a secondary drive in the evolution of animals, behind the desire to expand one’s power – the \"will to power\".\n\nNonetheless, in his notebooks he continues to expand the theory of the will to power. Influenced by his earlier readings of Boscovich, he began to develop a physics of the will to power. The idea of matter as centers of force is translated into matter as centers of will to power. Nietzsche wanted to slough off the theory of matter, which he viewed as a relic of the metaphysics of substance.\n\nThese ideas of an all inclusive physics or metaphysics built upon the will to power do not appear to arise anywhere in his published works or in any of the final books published posthumously, except in the above-mentioned aphorism from \"Beyond Good & Evil\", where he references Boscovich (section 12). It does recur in his notebooks, but not all scholars treat these ideas as part of his thought.\n\nThroughout the 1880s, in his notebooks, Nietzsche developed a theory of the \"eternal recurrence of the same\" and much speculation on the physical possibility of this idea and the mechanics of its actualization occur in his later notebooks. Here, the will to power as a potential physics is integrated with the postulated eternal recurrence. Taken literally as a theory for how things are, Nietzsche appears to imagine a physical universe of perpetual struggle and force that repeatedly completes its cycle and returns to the beginning.\n\nSome scholars believe that Nietzsche used the concept of eternal recurrence metaphorically. But others, such as Paul Loeb, have argued that \"Nietzsche did indeed believe in the truth of cosmological eternal recurrence.\" By either interpretation the acceptance of eternal recurrence raises the question of whether it could justify a trans-valuation of one's life, and be a necessary precursor to the overman in her/his perfect acceptance of all that is, for the love of life itself and amor fati.\n\nIn contemporary Nietzschean scholarship, some interpreters have emphasized the will to power as a psychological principle because Nietzsche applies it most frequently to human behavior. However, in Nietzsche's unpublished notes (later published by his sister as \"The Will to Power\"), Nietzsche sometimes seemed to view the will to power as a more (metaphysical) general force underlying \"all\" reality, not just human behavior—thus making it more directly analogous to Schopenhauer's will to live. For example, Nietzsche claims the \"world is the will to power—and nothing besides!\". Nevertheless, in relation to the entire body of Nietzsche's published works, many scholars have insisted that Nietzsche's principle of the will to power is less metaphysical and more pragmatic than Schopenhauer's will to live: while Schopenhauer thought the will to live was what was most real in the universe, Nietzsche can be understood as claiming only that the will to power is a particularly useful principle for his purposes.\n\nSome interpreters also upheld a biological interpretation of the \"Wille zur Macht\", making it equivalent with some kind of social Darwinism. For example, the concept was appropriated by some Nazis such as Alfred Bäumler, who may have drawn influence from it or used it to justify their expansive quest for power.\n\nThis reading was criticized by Martin Heidegger in his 1930s courses on Nietzsche—suggesting that raw physical or political power was not what Nietzsche had in mind. This is reflected in the following passage from Nietzsche's notebooks:\n\nOpposed to a biological and voluntary conception of the \"Wille zur Macht\", Heidegger also argued that the will to power must be considered in relation to the \"Übermensch\" and the \"thought of eternal recurrence\"—although this reading itself has been criticized by Mazzino Montinari as a \"macroscopic Nietzsche\". Gilles Deleuze also emphasized the connection between the will to power and eternal return. Both Jacques Derrida and Gilles Deleuze were careful to point out that the primary nature of will to power is unconscious. This means that the drive to power is always already at work unconsciously, perpetually advancing the will of the one over the other. This thus creates the state of things in the observable or conscious world still operating through the same tension. Derrida is careful not to confine the will to power to human behavior, the mind, metaphysics, nor physical reality individually. It is the underlying life principle inaugurating all aspects of life and behavior, a self-preserving force. A sense of entropy and the eternal return, which are related, is always indissociable from the will to power. The eternal return of all memory initiated by the will to power is an entropic force again inherent to all life.\n\nOpposed to this interpretation, the \"will to power\" can be understood (or misunderstood) to mean a struggle against one's surroundings that culminates in personal growth, self-overcoming, and self-perfection, and assert that the power held over others as a result of this is coincidental. Thus Nietzsche wrote:\n\nIt would be possible to claim that rather than an attempt to 'dominate over others', the \"will to power\" is better understood as the tenuous equilibrium in a system of forces' relations to each other. While a rock, for instance, does not have a conscious (or unconscious) \"will\", it nevertheless acts as a site of resistance within the \"will to power\" dynamic. Moreover, rather than 'dominating over others', \"will to power\" is more accurately positioned in relation to the subject (a mere synecdoche, both fictitious and necessary, for there is \"no doer behind the deed,\" (see \"On the Genealogy of Morals\")) and is an idea behind the statement that words are \"seductions\" within the process of self-mastery and self-overcoming. The \"will to power\" is thus a \"cosmic\" inner force acting in and through both animate and inanimate objects. Not just instincts but also higher level behaviors (even in humans) were to be reduced to the \"will to power\". This includes both such apparently harmful acts as physical violence, lying, and domination, on one hand, and such apparently non-harmful acts as gift-giving, love, and praise on the other—though its manifestations can be altered significantly, such as through art and aesthetic experience. In \"Beyond Good and Evil\", he claims that philosophers' \"will to truth\" (i.e., their apparent desire to dispassionately seek objective, absolute truth) is actually nothing more than a manifestation of their will to power; this will can be life-affirming or a manifestation of nihilism, but it is the will to power all the same.\n\nOther Nietzschean interpreters dispute the suggestion that Nietzsche's concept of the will to power is merely and only a matter of narrow, harmless, humanistic self-perfection. They suggest that, for Nietzsche, power means self-perfection \"as well as\" outward, political, elitist, aristocratic domination. Nietzsche, in fact, explicitly and specifically defined the egalitarian state-idea as the embodiment of the will to power in decline:\n\nAlfred Adler borrowed heavily from Nietzsche's work to develop his second Viennese school of psychotherapy called individual psychology. Adler (1912) wrote in his important book \"Über den nervösen Charakter (The Neurotic Constitution)\":\n\nAdler's adaptation of the will to power was and still is in contrast to Sigmund Freud's pleasure principle or the \"will to pleasure\", and to Viktor Frankl's logotherapy or the \"will to meaning\". Adler's intent was to build a movement that would rival, even supplant, others in psychology by arguing for the holistic integrity of psychological well-being with that of social equality. His interpretation of Nietzsche's will to power was concerned with the individual patient's overcoming of the superiority-inferiority dynamic.\n\nIn \"Man's Search for Meaning\", Frankl compared his third Viennese school of psychotherapy with Adler's psychoanalytic interpretation of the will to power:\n\nThe 1999 4x strategy game Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri refers to the will to power by naming one of its available technologies by that name. A quote from \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" is given when the technology is discovered by the player.\n\nThe character of 'The Jackal' in the 2008 Ubisoft game Far Cry 2 quotes from Beyond Good and Evil and the Will to Power. \n\nThe 2016 4x strategy game Stellaris also includes a technology with this name.\n\nBob Rosenberg, founder of freestyle music group Will to Power chose the name for the group as an homage to German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche's theory of an individual's fundamental \"will to power\".\n\nThe first title in the \"Xenosaga\" trilogy is \"Xenosaga Episode I: Der Wille zur Macht\".\n\nOn September 8th, 2017, melodic death metal band Arch Enemy released an album entitled \"Will to Power\". \n\nThe book makes an appearance in the 1933 Barbara Stanwyck movie \"Baby Face\".\n\nIn \"Smallville\" (Season 1, Episode 17), the Lex Luthor character reveals that his father gave him a copy of the book for his tenth birthday.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46953393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46953393", "title": "Zassenhaus algorithm", "text": "Zassenhaus algorithm\n\nIn mathematics, the Zassenhaus algorithm\nis a method to calculate a basis for the intersection and sum of two subspaces of a vector space.\nIt is named after Hans Zassenhaus, but no publication of this algorithm by him is known. It is used in computer algebra systems.\n\nLet be a vector space and , two finite-dimensional subspaces of with the following spanning sets:\nand\nFinally, let formula_3 be linearly independent vectors so that formula_4 and formula_5 can be written as\nand\n\nThe algorithm computes the base of the sum formula_8 and a base of the intersection formula_9.\n\nThe algorithm creates the following block matrix of size formula_10:\n\nUsing elementary row operations, this matrix is transformed to the row echelon form. Then, it has the following shape:\nHere, formula_13 stands for arbitrary numbers, and the vectors \nformula_14 for every formula_15 and formula_16 for every formula_17 are nonzero.\n\nThen formula_18 with\nis a basis of formula_20\nand formula_21 with\nis a basis of formula_9.\n\nFirst, we define formula_24 to be the projection to the first component.\n\nLet\nformula_25\nThen formula_26 and\nformula_27.\n\nAlso, formula_28 is the kernel of formula_29, the projection restricted to .\nTherefore, formula_30.\n\nThe Zassenhaus Algorithm calculates a basis of . In the first columns of this matrix, there is a basis formula_31 of formula_20.\n\nThe rows of the form formula_33 (with formula_34) are obviously in formula_28. Because the matrix is in row echelon form, they are also linearly independent.\nAll rows which are different from zero (formula_36 and formula_33) are a basis of , so there are formula_38 such formula_39s. Therefore, the formula_39s form a basis of formula_9.\n\nConsider the two subspaces formula_42 and formula_43 of the vector space formula_44.\n\nUsing the standard basis, we create the following matrix of dimension formula_45:\n\nUsing elementary row operations, we transform this matrix into the following matrix:\n\nTherefore,\nformula_49 is a basis of formula_20, and\nformula_51 is a basis of formula_9.\n\n"}
