{"id": "48444814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48444814", "title": "A Lot Going on Upstairs", "text": "A Lot Going on Upstairs\n\n\"A Lot Going on Upstairs\" is the fifteenth episode of the fourteenth season of the animated sitcom \"Family Guy\", and the 264th episode overall. It aired on Fox in the United States on March 6, 2016, and is written by Steve Callaghan and directed by Joe Vaux.\n\nStewie begins having nightmares (consisting of where he is naked in school, a dinner with Glenn Close and her associates, and how he messed up during the show's intro), and in every dream there is a dark black monster with green eyes. He decides to sleep in his parents' bedroom. This causes Peter discomfort, and he struggles to find a sleeping spot. Brian suggests that he sleep in the attic. When Peter does, he turns it into a hangout joint.\n\nStewie tries to evade his nightmares by refusing to sleep again. When this fails, Brian decides to help him. Brian checks on the internet that nightmares come from deep dark fears, and he and Stewie try to figure out the cause of it. Brian starts by having Chris appear as Frankenstein's monster, and a chain of Meg, Mayor Adam West, and other characters dressed as each other to try to address a possible fear of monsters.\n\nWhen Quagmire, Cleveland, and Joe join Peter in the attic, they begin having fun. Soon, their horseplay causes damage when they play lawn darts in the attic. Lois demands they leave the attic, which Peter does not want to do. Lois retaliates by locking them in using screws and a drill she finds by the attic door.\n\nWhen every other attempt fails, Stewie invents a machine to send Brian into his subconscious to defeat the monster. Brian finds the idea insane, but agrees to it nonetheless. When Brian enters the dream, he meets Glenn Close giving her his opinion of her performance of Cruella de Vil in the live-action version of \"101 Dalmatians\". Over salad, Close claims she can be silly, as opposed to all of the serious films that she usually does, and demonstrates by saying the word \"fart\" for Brian. Brian eventually meets Stewie, who takes him to the subconscious. After heading through a series of nightmares, they encounter the monster, and Brian uses a syringe from the nightmare Dr. Hartman to kill him, but he dissolves into Brian. Confused at first, Stewie deduces that he's afraid of disappointing Brian as he considers him a father figure, and Brian assures Stewie that he will always be happy to be proud of him.\n\nPeter, Quagmire, Cleveland, and Joe eventually go crazy. Quagmire even tries to shout down the ventilation, but Meg cannot hear them because she is listening to a wilderness survival tape on what to do if a bear appears in front of someone. An enraged Peter orders Lois to let them go, but when she refuses to budge, they pressure her by threatening to defecate on her wedding dress. Irate, Lois takes the hand towel bar from the bathroom at the time when Meg was listening to a wilderness survival tape on how to deal with snake bites. Lois then uses it to have them escape the attic where they fall near her, but Cleveland tells her that she was too late to stop them from pooping on her dress. Either way, Peter and Lois agree that they both went a little too far. Quagmire states that he will need to take a break from his friendship with the guys for the next two weeks.\n\nBrian and Stewie then awake the next day. Brian tells Stewie what happened, but is dismissed as a weirdo. Stewie then leaves and comments that he found feces on Lois' wedding dress.\n\nThe episode received an audience of 2.74 million, making it the second-most watched show on Fox that night behind \"The Simpsons\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29340015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29340015", "title": "A Weaver on the Horizon", "text": "A Weaver on the Horizon\n\nA Weaver on the Horizon (Chinese: 天涯织女) is a 2010 Chinese television series based on the life story of Huang Daopo, who revolutionized the textile industry during the Mongol conquest of the Song dynasty and the beginning of the Yuan dynasty. The story is considered to be historical fiction, as the plot deviates from factual accounts. A central theme of feminism is also present, as more focus is placed on the female protagonists than their male counterparts. The series premiered on Nanning Television on 14 August 2010 and ran for 36 episodes.\n\nHuang Qiao'er (Ivy Lu, Janine Chang) was born to a poverty-stricken family. She lost her parents at an early age and was raised by her aunt, who taught her textile arts. While growing up in a weaving mill, Huang developed a close bond with the neighboring dyehouse owner's son, Fang Ning (Edwin Siu), who fell in love with her. Eventually, Splendid Mill's weavers produce outstanding results and earn an opportunity to work in the palace. Through Huang's friendship with the emperor's niece, Zhao Jiayi (Cecilia Liu), Huang is able to gain access to the palace's study, deepening her knowledge of weaving from its collection. However, the weavers become embroiled in a power struggle with the emperor's concubines, as well as a rivalry with the Iridescent Cloud Mill's weavers, who also work at the palace. \nWhile in the palace, Huang falls in love with a young general, Lin Mufei (Justin Yuan), at the expense of her friendship with the princess. Lin also rejects the princess' affections, due to his prejudice against imperial family members' corruption, and in spite of his vows to defend the Song dynasty. During Lin's absence, Fang Ning's legs are crippled while saving Huang from the corrupt members of the imperial court. Feeling guilty for Fang's plight, and hearing rumors that Lin had been killed in battle at the city of Chuzhou (present day Huai'an), Huang decides to marry Fang. Lin, however, has survived and is heartbroken when he sees the two marry, thus complicating the love triangle between Lin, Huang, and Zhao Jiayi. \nDespite Huang Qiao'er's awareness that she cannot be with the man she still loves, due to her marriage to another, she recognizes that being Fang Ning's wife also has its benefits. Her mother-in-law (Cheng Pei-pei) imparts the family's dyeing secrets, which helps her hone her textile skills. However, Fang is aware that his wife still has feelings towards Lin Mufei. This prompts Fang to become an alcoholic, leading him to repeatedly abuse her. As for Zhao Jiayi, she remains devoted to Lin, and, after learning that he did not die, eventually sneaks away from the palace to search for him. With the help of Lin's mother, Zhao locates him in the city of Changzhou. She claims that she only wishes to be with Lin Mufei in battle, regardless of whether he would ultimately love her or not. \nNot long afterwards, the Mongols, who establish the Yuan dynasty under the leadership of Kublai Khan, conquer the Song dynasty. After experiencing a series of personal misfortunes and tragedies, Lin is traumatized and decides to focus on protecting Zhao Jiayi, and her surviving clan members, as well as liberating China from the Mongols' tyranny. For three years, while battling their enemies and taking care of one another, Lin and Zhao begin to develop a close bond and mutual understanding. Zhao helps Lin nurse his emotional wounds, resulting from Huang's marriage to Fang Ning and his mother's execution by one of their adversaries. He starts to reciprocate the princess’s affection, when he realizes that there is more to her than her apparent vain behavior.\n\nWhile fleeing from the Mongols' conquest, Huang has a chance encounter with an extraordinary woodwork instructor, Feng Jiujin (Damian Lau), and becomes his apprentice. She ultimately wanders to Yazhou (present day Hainan), where she learns the arts of cotton farming and weaving, and helps the natives improve their textile technology. \nAfter Fang Ning's death, Huang finally resolves the entanglement with Lin and Zhao, by reuniting with them in the city of Hangzhou (former Song capital Lin'an). Huang sadly realizes that she has inadvertently brought two men who loved her nothing but heartbreak, instead of happiness. Regretting her mistakes, she gives her blessing to Lin and Zhao of their newfound love for each other, and accepts her fate as a widow. Huang also realizes her dream of revolutionizing the art of textile weaving and manufacturing, for the welfare of her people. With support from her family and friends, Huang becomes an innovator of the Chinese textile industry. After numerous battles against the Yuan forces with Song remnants, the Battle of Yamen officially ends to the Song dynasty. Lin and Zhao, after enduring these defeats, realize that the enemy is too powerful and not yet ready for the resistance to overthrow. Desiring to escape from the violence and tragedies in their lives, they choose to elope and go into seclusion together.\nLin Mufei and Zhao Jiayi are happily married and return to Hangzhou after spending three years in hiding. By this time, the Splendid Mill and Fang Family Dyehouse have brought in many apprentices and achieved business success, with Huang Qiao'er fulfilling her purpose in life.\n\nThe Song and Mongol military costumes are originally made for the two television series \"The Young Warriors\" (2006) and \"The Legend of the Condor Heroes\" (2008).\n\nOriginally considered for the part of Huang Qiao'er by the casting department, Cecilia Liu expressed her interest to portray Zhao Jiayi instead, after reading the script. As a result, Janine Chang was chosen for the starring role.\n\nIn Chinese history, Emperor Lizong and Emperor Duzong of the Song dynasty were actually uncle and nephew. In \"A Weaver on the Horizon\", they are changed to brothers to explain Zhao Jiayi's existence. In reality, Zhao Jiayi never existed and is a fictional character solely created for \"A Weaver on the Horizon\". The screenwriters were unwilling to write Zhao as the daughter of Duzong due to his well-known corrupted reputations.\n\nAlmost all of the characters in the series are fictional except Huang Daopo, Emperor Duzong, Mongol general Bayan, and Yelü Chucai. Most of the plot does not match actual historic accounts. There are references to the death of Emperor Duzong, the succession and abdication of Emperor Gongzong, Battle of Xiangyang, Battle of Yamen and the deaths of the Song's last two emperors; Emperor Duanzong and Emperor Huaizong.\n\nSeveral websites aired different scenes that were deleted from the series:\n\nThe series was well received in mainland China, earning high ratings and acclaim for good performance and a portrayal of inspirational female characters.\n\n"}
{"id": "6453717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6453717", "title": "Air source heat pumps", "text": "Air source heat pumps\n\nAn air source heat pump (ASHP) is a system which transfers heat from outside to inside a building, or vice versa. Under the principles of vapor compression refrigeration, an ASHP uses a refrigerant system involving a compressor and a condenser to absorb heat at one place and release it at another. They can be used as a space heater or cooler, and are sometimes called \"reverse-cycle air conditioners\".\n\nIn domestic heating use, an ASHP absorbs heat from outside air and releases it inside the building, as hot air, hot water-filled radiators, underfloor heating and/or domestic hot water supply. The same system can often do the reverse in summer, cooling the inside of the house. When correctly specified, an ASHP can offer a full central heating solution and domestic hot water up to 80 °C.\n\nAir at any temperature above absolute zero contains some energy. An air-source heat pump transfers ('pumps') some of this energy as heat from one place to another, for example between the outside and inside of a building. This can provide space heating and/or hot water. A single system can be designed to transfer heat in either direction, to heat or cool the interior of the building in winter and summer respectively. For simplicity, the description below focuses on use for interior heating.\n\nThe technology is similar to a refrigerator or freezer or air conditioning unit: the different effect is due to the physical location of the different system components. Just as the pipes on the back of a refrigerator become warm as the interior cools, so an ASHP warms the inside of a building whilst cooling the outside air.\n\nThe main components of an air-source heat pump are:\n\nAir source heat pumps can provide fairly low cost space heating. A high efficiency heat pump can provide up to four times as much heat as an electric heater using the same energy. In comparison to gas as a primary heat source, however, the lifetime cost of an air source heat pump may be affected by the price of electricity compared to gas (where available). Use of gas may be associated with higher carbon emissions, depending upon how the electricity is generated.\n\nA \"standard\" domestic air source heat pump can extract useful heat down to about . At colder outdoor temperatures the heat pump is less efficient; it could be switched off and the premises heated using only supplemental heat (or emergency heat) if the supplemental heating system is large enough. There are specially designed heat pumps that, while giving up some performance in cooling mode, will provide useful heat extraction to even lower outdoor temperatures.\n\nAn air source heat pump designed specifically for very cold climates can extract useful heat from ambient air as cold −30 °C (−22 °F). Manufacturers include Mitsubishi and Fujitsu. One Mitsubishi model provides heat at −35 °C, but the Coefficient of performance (COP) drops to 0.9, indicating that resistance heating would be more efficient at that temperature. At −30 °C, the COP is 1.1, according to the manufacturer's data, although the manufacturer's marketing literature also claims a minimum COP of 1.4 and performance to −30 °C. Although air source heat pumps are less efficient than well-installed ground source heat pumps in cold conditions, air source heat pumps have lower initial costs and may be the most economic or practical choice. A study by Natural Resources Canada found that cold climate air source heat pumps (CC-ASHPs) do work in Canadian winters, based on testing in Ottawa, Ontario in late December 2012 to early January 2013 using a ducted CC-ASHP. (The report does not explicitly state whether backup heat sources should be considered for temperatures below −30 °C. The record low for Ottawa is −36 °C.) The CC-ASHP provided 60% energy (though not energy cost) savings compared to natural gas, when considering only energy efficiency in the home. When considering energy efficiency in electricity generation however, more energy would be used with the CC-ASHP, relative to natural gas heating, in provinces or territories (Alberta, Nova Scotia, and the Northwest Territories) where coal-fired generation was the predominant method of electricity generation. (The energy savings in Saskatchewan were marginal. Other provinces use primarily hydroelectric and/or nuclear generation.) Despite the significant energy savings relative to gas in provinces not relying primarily on coal, the higher cost of electricity relative to natural gas (using 2012 retail prices in Ottawa, Ontario) made natural gas the less expensive energy source. (The report did not calculate the cost of operation in the province of Quebec, which has lower electricity rates, nor did it show the impact of time of use electricity rates.) The study found that in Ottawa a CC-ASHP cost 124% more to operate than the natural gas system. However, in areas where natural gas is not available to homeowners, 59% energy cost savings can be realized relative to heating with fuel oil. The report noted that about 1 million residences in Canada (8%) are still heated with fuel oil. The report shows 54% energy cost savings for CC-ASHPs relative to electric baseboard resistance heating. Based on these savings, the report showed a five-year payback for converting from either fuel oil or electric baseboard resistance heating to a CC-ASHP. (The report did not specify whether that calculation considered the possible need for an electrical service upgrade in the case of converting from fuel oil. Presumably no electrical service upgrade would be needed if converting from electric resistance heat.) The report did note greater fluctuations in room temperature with the heat pump due to its defrost cycles.\n\nAir source heat pumps can last for over 20 years with low maintenance requirements. There are numerous heat pumps from the 1970s and 1980s in the United States that are still in service in 2012, even in places where winters are extremely cold. Few moving parts reduce maintenance requirements. However, the outdoor heat exchanger and fan must be kept free from leaves and debris. Heat pumps have more moving parts than an equivalent electric resistance heater or fuel burning heater. Ground source heat pumps have fewer moving parts than air source heat pumps as they do not need fans or defrosting mechanisms and are located indoors. The ground array for a ground source installation should last for over 100 years.\n\nAir source heat pumps are used to provide interior space heating and cooling even in colder climates, and can be used efficiently for water heating in milder climates. A major advantage of some ASHPs is that the same system may be used for heating in winter and cooling in summer, though it is not true air conditioning without a facility to adjust the humidity of the inside air. Though the cost of installation is generally high, it is less than the cost of a \"ground source\" heat pump, because a ground source heat pump requires excavation to install its ground loop. The advantage of a ground source heat pump is that it has access to the thermal storage capacity of the ground which allows it to produce more heat for less electricity in cold conditions.\n\nASHPs are often paired with auxiliary or emergency heat systems to provide backup heat when outside temperatures are too low for the pump to work efficiently, or in the event the pump malfunctions. Since ASHPs have high capital costs, and efficiency drops as temperature decreases, it is generally not cost-effective to size a system for the coldest possible temperature scenario, even if an ASHP could meet the entire heat requirement at the coldest temperatures expected. Propane, natural gas, oil or pellet fuel furnaces can provide this supplementary heat.\n\nAll-electric heat pump systems have an electric furnace or electric resistance heat, or strip heat, which typically consists of rows of electric coils that heat up. A fan blows over the heated coils and circulates warm air throughout the home. This serves as an adequate heating source, but as temperatures go down, electricity costs rise. Electrical service outages pose the same threat as to central forced-air systems and pump-based boilers, but woodstoves and non-electric fireplace inserts can mitigate this risk. Some ASHPs can be coupled to solar panels as primary energy source, with a conventional electric grid as backup source.\n\nThermal storage solutions incorporating resistance heating can be used in conjunction with ASHPs. Storage may be more cost-effective if time of use electricity rates are available. Heat is stored in high density ceramic bricks contained within a thermally-insulated enclosure. ASHPs may also be paired with passive solar heating. Thermal mass (such as concrete or rocks) heated by passive solar heat can help stabilize indoor temperatures, absorbing heat during the day and releasing heat at night, when outdoor temperatures are colder and heat pump efficiency is lower.\n\nThe outdoor section on some units may 'frost up' when there is sufficient moisture in the air and outdoor temperature is between 0 °C and 5 °C (32 °F to 41 °F). This restricts air flow across the outdoor coil. These units employ a defrost cycle where the system switches temporarily to 'cooling' mode to move heat from the home to the outdoor coil to melt the ice. This requires the supplementary heater (resistance electric or gas) to activate. The defrost cycle reduces the efficiency of the heat pump significantly, although the newer (demand) systems are more intelligent and need to defrost less. As temperatures drop below freezing the tendency for frosting of the outdoor section decreases due to reduced humidity in the air.\n\nIt is difficult to retrofit conventional heating systems that use radiators/radiant panels, hot water baseboard heaters, or even smaller diameter ducting, with ASHP-sourced heat. The lower heat pump output temperatures would mean radiators would have to be increased in size or a low temperature underfloor heating system be installed instead. Alternatively, a high temperature heat pump can be installed and existing heat emitters can be retained.\n\nHeating and cooling is accomplished by pumping a refrigerant through the heat pump's indoor and outdoor coils. Like in a refrigerator, a compressor, condenser, expansion valve and evaporator are used to change states of the refrigerant between colder liquid and hotter gas states.\n\nWhen the liquid refrigerant at a low temperature and low pressure passes through the outdoor heat exchanger coils, ambient heat causes the liquid to boil (change to gas or vapor): heat energy from the outside air has been absorbed and stored in the refrigerant as latent heat. The gas is then compressed using an electric pump; the compression increases the temperature of the gas.\n\nInside the building, the gas passes through a pressure valve into heat exchanger coils. There, the hot refrigerant gas condenses back to a liquid and transfers the stored latent heat to the indoor air, water heating or hot water system. The indoor air or heating water is pumped across the heat exchanger by an electric pump or fan.\n\nThe cool liquid refrigerant then re-enter the outdoor heat exchanger coils to begin a new cycle.\n\nMost heat pumps can also operate in a cooling mode where the cold refrigerant is moved through the indoor coils to cool the room air.\n\nThe 'Efficiency' of air source heat pumps is measured by the Coefficient of performance (COP). A COP of 3 means the heat pump produces 3 units of heat energy for every 1 unit of electricity it consumes. Within temperature ranges of −3 °C to 10 °C, the COP for many machines is fairly stable at 3–3.5.\n\nIn very mild weather, the COP of an air source heat pump can be up to 4. However, on a cold winter day, it takes more work to move the same amount of heat indoors than on a mild day. The heat pump's performance is limited by the Carnot cycle and will approach 1.0 as the outdoor-to-indoor temperature difference increases, which for most air source heat pumps happens as outdoor temperatures approach −18 °C / 0 °F. Heat pump construction that enables carbon dioxide as a refrigerant may have a COP of greater than 2 even down to −20 °C, pushing the break-even figure downward to −30 °C (−22 °F). A ground source heat pump has comparatively less of a change in COP as outdoor temperatures change, because the ground from which they extract heat has a more constant temperature than outdoor air.\n\nThe design of a heat pump has a considerable impact on its efficiency. Many air source heat pumps are designed primarily as air conditioning units, mainly for use in summer temperatures. Designing a heat pump specifically for the purpose of heat exchange can attain greater COP ratings and an extended life cycle. The principal changes are in the scale and type of compressor and evaporator.\n\nSeasonally adjusted heating and cooling efficiencies are given by the heating seasonal performance factor (HSPF) and seasonal energy efficiency ratio (SEER) respectively.\n\nIn units charged with HFC refrigerants, the COP rating is reduced when heat pumps are used to heat domestic water to over 60 °C or to heat conventional central heating systems that use radiators to distribute heat (instead of an underfloor heating array).\n\n\nUnits charged with HFC refrigerants are often marketed as low energy or a sustainable technology, however if the HFC leaks out from the system, there is potential to contribute to global warming, as measured in global warming potential (GWP) and ozone depletion potential (ODP). Recent government mandates have seen the phase-out of R-22 refrigerant and its replacement with more environmentally sound R-410A refrigerant.\n\nWhile heat pumps with backup systems other than electrical resistance heating are often encouraged by electric utilities, air source heat pumps are a concern for winter-peaking utilities if electrical resistance heating is used as the supplemental or replacement heat source when the temperature drops below the point that the heat pump can meet all of the home's heat requirement. Even if there is a non-electric backup system, the fact that efficiencies of ASHPs decrease with outside temperatures is a concern to electric utilities. The drop in efficiency means their electrical load increases steeply as temperatures drop. A study in Canada's Yukon Territory, where diesel generators are used for peaking capacity, noted that widespread adoption of air source heat pumps could lead to increased diesel consumption if the increased electrical demand due to ASHP use exceeds available hydroelectric capacity Notwithstanding those concerns, the study did conclude that ASHPs are a cost effective heating alternative for Yukon residents.\nAs wind farms are increasingly used to supply electricity to the grid, the increased winter load matches well with the increased winter generation from wind turbines and calmer days result in decreased heating load for most houses even if the air temperature is low.\n\nSummer, John A. (1976). Domestic Heat Pumps. PRISM Press. .\n"}
{"id": "9277321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9277321", "title": "Androsia", "text": "Androsia\n\nAndrosia is a type of textile produced by the Androsia Batik Factory on Andros Island, Bahamas. It is handmade and has been manufactured on Andros since 1973 by Bahamians. This type of fabric is considered one of Andros' national treasures and won the Silver Jubilee award in 1998.\n\nStencils are created from locally harvested sponges and fashioned into the whimsical shapes Androsia is famous for. Typically these are shapes organic in nature, for example conch shells, hibiscus flowers, and native coral heads. The stencils are dipped in heated wax and then hand pressed onto the fabric. The fabric is next soaked in dye long enough for the fabric to absorb the color. Typically Androsia is brightly colored, with hot pink and purple being two very common colors. During the dying process the wax prevents the dye from adhering to the fabric. These patches of white retain the shape of the stencils. Finally the cloth is boiled to remove the wax.\n\nAndrosia is then cut into various items of batik clothing such as dresses, shirts for men and women, skirts, pareos, tank tops, t-shirts, shorts, and accessories. Androsia is also used in some furniture and in other household goods, or is sold by the yard for dressmaking, quilting, and craft projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "580496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=580496", "title": "Buffyverse", "text": "Buffyverse\n\nThe Buffyverse or Slayerverse is the shared fictional universe in which the TV series \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" and \"Angel\" are set. This term, originally coined by fans of the TV series, has since been used in the titles of published works, and adopted by Joss Whedon, the creator of the fictional universe. The Buffyverse is a place in which supernatural phenomena exist, and supernatural evil can be challenged by people willing to fight against such forces.\n\nThe Buffyverse is a fictional construct created by hundreds of individual stories told through TV, novels, comics and other media. It began with the first episodes of the \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" television series in 1997 and expanded with the spinoff TV series \"Angel\" in 1999. The popularity of these series led to licensed fiction carrying the \"Buffy\" and \"Angel\" labels.\n\nOutside of the TV series, the Buffyverse has been expanded and elaborated by various authors and artists in the so-called \"Buffyverse Expanded Universe\". The Buffyverse novels, Buffy video games and the vast majority of Buffyverse comics, are licensed by 20th Century Fox. The works sometimes flesh out background information on characters. For example, \"Go Ask Malice\" provides information about the origins of the character, Faith Lehane.\n\nThe Buffyverse comics were first published by Dark Horse who have retained the right to produce Buffy comics. IDW now hold the license to produce Angel comics. Joss Whedon wrote an eight-issue miniseries for Dark Horse Comics entitled \"Fray\", about a futuristic vampire slayer. Its final issue was published in August 2003. Pocket Books holds the license to produce Buffy novels, but their license to produce Angel novels expired in 2004.\n\nThe Buffyverse is distinguished from the real world in that it contains supernatural elements, though only a small proportion of the human population is aware of this. In regards to the presentation of morality, many aspects of the Buffyverse are introduced as good or evil and are usually treated as such, though certain instances are often forced into more ambiguous grey areas. A few of the main aspects of the Buffyverse follow.\n\nThe world was originally ruled by powerful pure-breed demons, the Old Ones. The Old Ones were eventually driven out of this dimension. Any who remained were vanquished or imprisoned in the \"Deeper Well\", which is essentially a hole in the Earth with one end opening in England. The entrance within England is in a tree (\"Hole in the World\" Angel Season 5). These demons are revered and worshiped by lesser demon species, and await chances to return and reclaim Earth.\n\nAccording to legend in the Buffyverse, the last Old One to leave this dimension fed off a human and their blood mixed. A demon was trapped in the human body in the place of the soul. Rupert Giles describes how the being \"bit another, and another, and so they walk the Earth\". Some elements of traditional vampire mythology are used while others are abandoned. These said elements (listed below) are essentially the rules of a vampire's life.\n\nCan be killed by:\n\nVulnerable to:\n\nOther vampire features:\n\nAs in historical werewolf mythology, werewolves are people who suffer from lycanthropy. In the Buffyverse, werewolf characters are shown to have an animal side which either complements or clashes with their human side. They transform not only on the full moon of each month, but the day before and the day after as well. Prominent werewolf characters include Oz, Veruca, and Nina Ash. Some werewolves have shown the ability to gain control/achieve harmony between their human and bestial sides (Oz and his teacher in the comics).\n\nIn the Buffyverse, the term \"demon\" is inexact; it has been applied to just about every creature that isn't a god, robot, unmodified human, or standard terrestrial animal. Some classes of creature, such as Vampires and Old Ones, are known to be demons but not always referred to as such.\n\nThere are many kinds of demons portrayed in the Buffyverse, of many different natures and origins. Some demons are shown to live and reproduce on Earth (the Bezoar in \"Bad Eggs\"), but some are extraterrestrial (the Queller demon in \"Listening to Fear\"), extradimensional (Lorne on \"Angel\"), ex-humans (Anya Jenkins was a peasant who became a vengeance demon), and hybrids (Cordelia Chase had aspects of demon fused in her). Some species of demon are capable of breeding with humans (Doyle has a human mother and a demon father). Anya Jenkins states in the episode \"Graduation Day\" that the demons that walk the earth are not pure demons, they are half-breeds. She states that true demons are \"bigger\", in reference to Mayor Richard Wilkins' Ascension into a true demon.\n\nSome demons in \"Buffy\" are shown to be inherently evil and interested in causing suffering, death, and harm. Other characters challenge this notion however, with demons such as Clem and Lorne who appear basically good.\n\nA group of shamans used the essence of a demon to produce the First Slayer. She was banished from her own village and forced to fight the forces of darkness alone. When she died another girl was \"chosen\" in her place. The line of Slayers is maintained until Buffy's two deaths and revivals cause a disturbance in the Slayer line that ultimately leads to the awakening of the First Evil. The Slayer is given great strength, lightning reflexes, fast healing powers and is highly skilled with many weapons and martial arts.\n\nThe Watchers' Council historically offers guidance to the Slayer, assisting them by supervising their training and by researching existing and possible demonic or supernatural threats. Notable Watchers include Rupert Giles, Watcher of series protagonist Buffy, and Wesley Wyndam-Pryce, who temporarily takes over in season 3.\n\nWhile most of humanity in the Buffyverse seems oblivious to the existence of demons, other groups and organizations that are waging their own battles against evil come to light over the course of \"Buffy\" and \"Angel\" and in related media. For example, a group of socially disadvantaged youth in L.A. organized themselves to battle the vampires destroying their community. (See Charles Gunn.) And, although some of their methods and goals proved questionable, a government-funded group known as The Initiative was also aware of the existence of demons and was fighting a secret war against them. Other large scale groups appear in both Buffy and Angel, often as antagonists to the heroes due to differing views on how to fight the good fight.\n\nMagic in the Buffyverse can be used for all manner of control. Spells can be performed by anyone by use of magical items while saying particular words. Witches and warlocks however have more knowledge and power for using it for their purposes.\n\nA witch can inherit their lineage from their parents or develop their craft over many years, and neither a witch nor warlock must necessarily be human, such as Cyvus Vail.\n\nWhile not prominent in the Buffyverse, there are individuals who gain special powers through means other than the ones mentioned above. Gwen Raiden and Bethany (from the \"Angel\" episode \"Untouched\") seem to be born with their powers. Drusilla had psychic powers as a human before becoming a vampire though their origins are never explained. Others, like Marcie Ross from the episode \"Out of Mind, Out of Sight\" or the trio of Nerds gain their powers by other magical, non-magical, or \"scientific\" means. Connor (Angel) is also a human with supernatural powers, similar to those of vampires, because he was born as a product of two vampire parents.\n\nTechnology in the Buffyverse is more advanced than in the real world at the time it was produced, although the applications of it do not seem to be common knowledge. Examples of advanced technology include:\n\n\nAdditionally, there is much technology specifically geared towards the supernatural, used by the government organization known as \"The Initiative\" and the demonic law firm Wolfram and Hart.\n\nBands and artists who were featured in either \"Buffy\" or \"Angel\" (on- and offscreen), or were featured on the Buffy soundtrack albums.\n\n"}
{"id": "870532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=870532", "title": "Bulletism", "text": "Bulletism\n\nBulletist or bulletism is an artistic process that involves shooting ink at a blank piece of paper The result is a type of ink blot. The artist can then develop images based on what is seen. Salvador Dalí claimed to have invented this technique. Leonardo da Vinci, however, suggested that \"just as one can hear any desired syllable in the sound of a bell, so one can see any desired figure in the shape formed by throwing a sponge with ink against the wall.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5043802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5043802", "title": "CADRE Laboratory for New Media", "text": "CADRE Laboratory for New Media\n\nThe CADRE Laboratory for New Media was founded in 1985 at San José State University. It is currently coordinated by percussionist and media artist Andrew Blanton. It was previously coordinated by G. Craig Hobbs as well as Joel Slayton, professor emeritus of SJSU, and director from 1991 to 2011. In Stephen Wilson's 2002 book, Information Arts: Intersections of Art, Science, And Technology, Wilson describes the focus of the CADRE labs as \"the development and testing of emerging technology applications in art, design, education, and communications in the context of critical discourse.\" \n\nFounded in 1984, CADRE is the second oldest media lab in the United States and has a long and notable list of alumni. CADRE offers BFA and MFA degrees in Digital Media Art. CADRE has published SWITCH, an online journal of new media, since 1995.\n\nSWITCH and CADRE were early centers of the net.art movement that coincided with the Dot-com bubble in nearby Silicon Valley.\n\nThe CADRE labs have historically worked closely with the ZeroOne Biennial, one of the foremost new media art exhibitions in the world. In 2006, CADRE, along with SJSU served as the academic hosts for the ISEA symposium and ZeroOne Festival held in San Jose. CADRE students collaborated on several artist residencies and several current and former students had their artworks in the festival.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49069728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49069728", "title": "Cancionero general", "text": "Cancionero general\n\nThe Cancionero general or Cancionero general de Hernando del Castillo is a lyric poetry anthology of the late Middle Ages or the early Renaissance. It is mostly devoted to the production in the kingdoms of Castile and León under Enrique IV and the Catholic Monarchs, Isabel de Castilla and Fernando de Aragon. Hernando del Castillo is responsible for the compilation which began around 1490 and was first printed in 1511 under the name of \"Cancionero general de muchos y diversos autores\".\n\nThe work is divided into nine parts according to their themes:\n\n\nThe first edition of the Cancionero General was printed by Cristóbal Koffman in Valencia in 1511, and was frequently reprinted:\n\n\nSome of its editions were censored, particularly the section on \"burlas.\"\n"}
{"id": "32150270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32150270", "title": "Cosmetic container", "text": "Cosmetic container\n\nA cosmetic container is a fully enclosed object used to contain, store, and transport cosmetics. Cosmetics or cosmetic products are substances intended to enhance or preserve the human body's physical appearance or scent.\n\nCosmetic containers are a deeper topic of cosmetic packaging, relating to ISO 22715. According to ISO, cosmetic containers are primary packaging. The container houses the actual product, while the outermost package is considered secondary packaging. These containers play important roles in both marketing and protecting the product.\n\nThe standard document ISO 22715 for cosmetics packaging is set by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). It includes a set of specifications dealing with packaging and labelling. In many scenarios national regulations can be more restrictive than international standards. Requirements may differ for certain primary or secondary packaging.\n\nThe main purpose of a cosmetic container is to protect the product while it is in storage or being transported. The container must be a well thought out solution that protects the product from deterioration and helps preserve its quality. It must be an attractive looking container as part of the marketing of a beauty product.\n\nThe container must also contain labels that legibly display basic information about the product and the manufacturer. These labels include contact information, ingredients, expiration dates, warnings and instructions. Labels not only identify products and their origins, they help provide consumers with the facts that cannot be confusing or misleading.\n\nIdeally, the container is made of durable material to give the product a long shelf life. It must last even longer through consumer use. The frequent opening and closing of the container can take a toll on its condition over time. Ultimately, the container must protect the product to the degree that it remains a safe product for human consumption. In other words, the container must shield the product from dirt, dust and germs.\n\nThe aesthetics of the container are considered extremely important since cosmetic products are mainly sold on brand image. Since cosmetic products are not considered medicine or survival products, the marketing of cosmetics depends heavily on associating brand awareness with emotion. The container must convey emotions about how the product will improve one's appearance and attitude. Many times cosmetics are repackaged and rebranded to help give them more market visibility.\n\nIn addition to cosmetic containers meeting the requirements of ISO, they must also comply with regulations set by the European Union and the United States. Cosmetics products marketed in the EU must comply with the EU-Regulation (EC) No. 1223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on cosmetic products. The entity that puts the product on the market, known as the \"responsible person,\" must prepare a product safety report for the EU. Manufacturers must notify the EU Cosmetic Products Notification Portal (CPNP) when they plan on putting products on the market. Some of the main EU requirements include identifying colorants and nanomaterials and disclosing serious undesirable effects (SUE) to the EU.\n\nThe main issues to remember about labels on cosmetic containers is that they provide safety guidance, including instructions for use and proper disposal. In the United States, companies must comply with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Although the FDA does exercise authority over the cosmetic industry, it does not allocate sufficient resources to constantly monitor the industry. ISO defines an ingredient as a material that makes up the final product and not necessarily raw materials used in the production of the product. While the FDA does not have strict requirements for ingredients, they must still be listed on the primary container or secondary package.\n\nThe materials used for cosmetic containers are of concern for both protective and sustainable reasons. The container must protect the product from environmental elements and it must also move in the direction of eco-friendly solutions. In other words, the more the container can be recycled, the better for both the environment and cost efficiency. Some of the factors that affect container durability include how the product substance responds to usage, chemical composition and biology. It is essential that the container is able to withstand mold and mildew, as well as contaminants.\n\nThe container must be made of materials resistant to hot or cold temperatures. It must also protect the product from ultraviolet rays, which can potentially damage the product. The container also cannot absorb product substances. Traditionally, plastic material or glass have been used to house cosmetics. Aluminum has become a popular type of container due to its lightweight yet sturdy quality, flexibility, durability and recyclability. A key factor in what type of material can be used for containers is how compatible the material is with the product.\n\nPlastic packaging materials are controversially discussed because of their polluting effects in particular to the marine environment. In 2014, a scientific study estimates the amount of floating plastics in the world's oceans to 5 trillion pieces with an accumulated weight of 250,000 tons.\n\nA cosmetic container, \"cosmetic box\", or \"cosmetic vessel\" is found in the historical records, both as an artifact, as relief items in some cultures, and are sometimes referenced in historical or archaeological literature. They are sometimes created in specific styles, shapes, or motifs.\n\nThe named 'cosmetic vessel' in Ancient Greece is the pyxis. In Ancient Egypt artifacts of hieroglyphically inscribed kohl tubes are found; also kohl vessels, and kohl spoons, which were formed in stylized shapes relevant to Egyptian ideology, including specific hieroglyphs.\n\nThe use of the \"cosmetic vessel\" may extend to trinket items, car-keys, toiletry accessories, for example a nail clipper; as a non-toiletry storage container, it becomes an 'all-purpose' decorated, special-use vessel.\n\nContainers are known from many societies, ancient and modern. The Native Americans of the Americas made small containers woven from basketry materials, including pine needles.\n\nIn Ancient Egypt toiletry items began in the Predynastic Period with ivory cosmetic articles; also bone, stone, or pottery. Ivory combs, and kohl spoons were among the first, with many shapes; common themes for shapes became the ankh symbol, ducks, lotus flowers, etc. In the time of the Predynastic and Old Kingdom, bowls were also mechanically drilled, including miniature sizes, and were used in life and also included as grave goods. The bowls were either a type of unguent jar, or a toiletry \"kohl cosmetic vessel\". The desert sun or Nile floodwaters during inundation produced a need for facial-eye protection, using 'eyepaint' or eyeliner, when working in the flooded lands; theoretically it was also used by males. The creation of predynastic cosmetic palettes with their eyepaint 'mixing circle', may have been the start of the lineage of the kohl cosmetic artifacts. The famed Narmer Palette, which scholars believe to commemorate the unification of upper and lower Egypt, is believed to be such a cosmetic article, perhaps even for the cosmetics of the king.\n"}
{"id": "52588951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52588951", "title": "Cosmic Hunt", "text": "Cosmic Hunt\n\nThe Cosmic Hunt is an old and widely distributed family of cognate myths. They are stories about a large animal that is pursued by hunters, is wounded, and is transformed into a constellation. Variants of the Cosmic Hunt are common in cultures of Northern Eurasia and the Americas, and include the story of Callisto in classical sources. The prey animal is either a bear or an ungulate, and the constellation it is transformed into is typically the four stars of the bowl in the Big Dipper asterism of Ursa Major. In some variants blood or grease may fall from the wounded animal, in an Iroquois version the blood causes leaves to change color in autumn. Sometimes the hunters are also placed in the firmament, represented by the stars of the Big Dipper's handle.\n\nThe original prototype of the myth must have been invented at least 15,000 years ago for it to have diffused across the Bering land bridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "20741256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20741256", "title": "Danish design", "text": "Danish design\n\nDanish Design is a style of functionalistic design and architecture that was developed in mid-20th century. Influenced by the German Bauhaus school, many Danish designers used the new industrial technologies, combined with ideas of simplicity and functionalism to design buildings, furniture and household objects, many of which have become iconic and are still in use and production. Prominent examples are the Egg chair, the PH lamps and the Sydney Opera House (Australia).\n\nAmong the most successful designers associated with the concept are Børge Mogensen (1914–72), Finn Juhl (1912–89), Hans Wegner (1914–2007), Arne Jacobsen (1902–71), Poul Kjærholm (1929–80), Poul Henningsen (1894–1967) and Verner Panton (1926–98).\n\nOther designers of note include Kristian Solmer Vedel (1923–2003) in the area of industrial design, Jens Harald Quistgaard (1919–2008) for kitchen furniture and implements, Gertrud Vasegaard (1913–2007) for ceramics, and Ole Wanscher (1903–85), who had a classical approach to furniture design.\n\nThe Danish Culture Canon credits Thorvald Bindesbøll (1846–1908) with early contributions to design in the areas of ceramics, jewellery, bookbinding, silver and furniture although he is known in the rest of the world for creating the Carlsberg logo (1904), still in use today. The Canon also includes Knud V. Engelhardt (1882–1931) for a more industrial approach, especially in the rounded contours of his electric tramcar designs which were widely copied. In the area of textiles, Marie Gudme Leth (1895–1997) brought the screen printing process to Denmark, opening a factory in 1935 which allowed her colourful patterns to be manufactured on an industrial basis. August Sandgren introduced functionalism in the design of his masterful bookbindings. \nIn the late 1940s, shortly after the end of the Second World War, conditions in Denmark were ideally suited to success in design. The emphasis was on furniture but architecture, silver, ceramics, glass and textiles also benefitted from the trend. Denmark's late industrialisation combined with a tradition of high-quality craftsmanship formed the basis of gradual progress towards industrial production. After the end of the war, Europeans were keen to find novel approaches such as the light wood furniture from Denmark. Last but not least, support in Denmark for freedom of individual expression assisted the cause.\n\nThe newly established Furniture School at the Royal Danish Academy of Art played a considerable part in the development of furniture design. Kaare Klint taught functionalism based on the size and proportions of objects, wielding considerable influence. Hans J. Wegner, who had been trained as a cabinetmaker, contributed with a unique sense of form, especially in designing chairs.\n\nAs head of the cooperative FDB furniture design studio, Børge Mogensen designed simple and robust objects of furniture for the average Danish family. Finn Juhl demonstrated an individualistic approach in designing chairs with an appealing but functional look.\n\nIn the early 1950s, American design also influenced Danish furniture. The American Charles Eames designed and manufactured chairs of moulded wood and steel pipes. These encouraged Arne Jacobsen to design his worldfamous Ant Chair, Denmark's first industrially manufactured chair. Furthermore, as Shaker furniture—and especially its reputation for stripped down chairs—began to be more and more known abroad, it also influenced Danish designers.\n\nPoul Kjærholm, Verner Panton and Nanna Ditzel followed a few years later, continuing the successful story of Danish design. Kjærholm worked mainly in steel and leather, Panton left Denmark during the 1960s to continue designing imaginative but highly unconventional plastic chairs while Nanna Ditzel, who also had a strongly individualistic approach, was successful in helping to renew Danish furniture design in the 1980s.\n\nIn the seventies Verner Panton made some of his most important designs. The Pantonova and the 1-2-3 System. They were a rave with the critics, but the consumers at the time found it too spacey. Today however it's true value to the design tradition is obvious. Danish furniture design failed to make any new important contributions in the 1980s. By contrast, industrial designers began to prosper, making use of the basic principles of focus on the user, respect for materials and attention to detail. For example, there are well known Danish designers, like Tobias Jacobsen (the grandson of Arne Jacobsen), who focused on the single elements of a violin when creating his chair \"Vio\" or on a boomerang when designing his eponymous sideboard.\n\nThe Bernadotte & Bjørn studio, established in 1950, was the first to specialise in industrial design, with an emphasis on office machines, domestic appliances and functional articles such as the thermos jug. The electronics manufacturer Bang & Olufsen, in collaboration with Bernadotte & Bjørn and later with Jacob Jensen and David Lewis, went on to excel in modern design work. Around the same time, the Stelton company collaborated with Arne Jacobsen and Erik Magnussen to produce their iconic vacuum jug, a huge international success.\n\nAnother successful design field is medical technology. Danish design companies like 3PART, Designit and CBD have worked in this area with individual designers such as Steve McGugan and Anders Smith.\n\nIn 2002 the Danish Government and the City of Copenhagen launched an effort to establish a world event for design in Copenhagen. Originally understood as a tool for branding traditional Danish design, the non-profit organization \"INDEX:\" shifted focus after worldwide research and coined the concept of Design to Improve Life, which rapidly became celebrated in Denmark and around the world. The organization now hands out the biggest design award in the world biannual in Copenhagen, tours large scale outdoor exhibition around the world, run educational program as well as design labs and hosts a global network.\n\nToday, there is strong focus on design in Denmark as industry increasingly appreciates the importance of design in the business environment. In addition, as part of its trade and industry policy, the Danish government has launched the DesignDenmark initiative which aims to restore Denmark to the international design elite.\n\nModern architecture has also contributed to the concept of Danish design.\n\nArne Jacobsen was not just a furniture designer but one of the leading architects of his times. Among his achievements are the Bellevue Theater and restaurant, Klampenborg (1936), the Århus City Hall (with Erik Møller; 1939–42) and the SAS Royal Hotel (1958–60).\n\nJørn Utzon (1918–2008), Denmark's most widely recognized architect, is remembered for his expressionist Sydney Opera House (1966) and the later Bagsværd Church (1976) with its wavy concrete roof.\n\nHenning Larsen (b. 1925) is the architect who designed the boldly modern Copenhagen Opera House on the island of Holmen which was completed in 2005.\n\nToday, the concept of Danish design is thriving in an ever-wider number of fields. Among recent highlights are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19371086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19371086", "title": "Dissemination", "text": "Dissemination\n\nTo disseminate (from lat. \"disseminare\" \"scattering seeds\"), in the field of communication, means to broadcast a message to the public without direct feedback from the audience. \n\nDissemination takes on the theory of the traditional view of communication, which involves a sender and receiver. The traditional communication view point is broken down into a sender sending information, and receiver collecting the information processing it and sending information back, like a telephone line.\n\nWith dissemination, only half of this communication model theory is applied. The information is sent out and received, but no reply is given. The message carrier sends out information, not to one individual, but many in a broadcasting system. An example of this transmission of information is in fields of advertising, public announcements and speeches. Another way to look at dissemination is that of which it derives from the Latin roots, the scattering of seeds. These seeds are metaphors for voice or words: to spread voice, words, and opinion to an audience.\n\nIn a scientific context, dissemination is defined as making projects results available to the scientific community, policy makers and industry – using scientific language prioritizing accuracy. In terms of content, it covers the results of the research project, happens only when results are available and targets a specialist audience in order to enable take-up and use of results.\n\nDissemination can be powerful when adding rhetoric or other forms of persuasiveness to the speech. According to John Durham Peters, who wrote \"Communication as Dissemination,\" \"making a public offering is perhaps the most basic of all communicative acts, but once the seeds are cast, their harvest is never assured... The metaphor of dissemination points to the contingency of all words and deeds, their uncertain consequences, and their governance by probabilities rather than certainties.\" In other words, dissemination of words to multiple people can take on multiple meanings to each individual depending on the experience, the attitude, the knowledge, the race or even the gender of the listener. All of these aspects can distort the message that the sender is disseminating towards the public. Depending on the circumstances, the surroundings and the environment the listener is receiving this message in can also have an effect on the outcome of the meaning of the message received. This interference is also known as \"noise\" in the traditional model of communication theory. Noise can distort the original meaning of a message.\n\nFurthermore, John Durham Peters explains that \"broadcasting information to an open ended destination is a feature of all speech. The metaphor of dissemination directs our attention to those vast continents of signification that are not directly interactive.\" Dissemination basically sends information to an audience, without direct contact to the receiver, and without a direct response or clarification method that a conversation or dialogue would have. \n\nIn policy development, mainstreaming is seen as going a step further than dissemination, in that it tries to embed change in policy and practice, rather than just publishing information.\n\n"}
{"id": "11048867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11048867", "title": "Dwarkin", "text": "Dwarkin\n\nDwarkin formally known as Dwarkin & Son, founded in 1875, was a pioneering Indian enterprise for the sale of Western and Indian musical instruments, which attained a legendary status in the music world at Kolkata (then known, in English, as Calcutta), particularly with the development of the hand-held harmonium.\n\nDwarkin & Son was founded in 1875 by Dwarkanath Ghose as D. Ghosh and Sons at Lower Chitpur Road in Kolkata, mainly dealing piano tuning and repairing of musical instruments. Subsequently, it was renamed was \"Dawrkin\" was coined by composer and writer, Upendrakishore Ray, combining the names of the founder and that of Thomas Dawkins, London, an instrument manufacturer from where the company imported musical instruments early on.\n\nDwarkanath Ghose (18471928), (nickname 'Dwaka'), hailing from Sukdebpur in neighbouring South 24 Parganas, founded the organisation. As a devoted and skilled worker of Harold & Co., he attracted attention of his superiors, who were Englishmen. On their advice, he opened his own shop on Bowbazar Street under the name 'Ghosh & Co. for selling musical instruments imported from England. Subsequently, he built his own workshop for manufacturing musical instruments and also established a printing press. Desh-Binodon Number,\n\nGhose was adept in modifying musical instruments as per individual needs of users and is particularly remembered for modifying the imported harmony flute and producing the hand held harmonium, which has subsequently become an integral part of the Indian music scenario. Dwijendranath Tagore is credited with having used the imported instrument in 1860 in his private theatre, but it was probably a pedalled instrument which was cumbersome, or it was possibly some variation of the reed organ. Initially, it aroused curiosity but gradually people started playing it and Ghose took the initiative to modify it.\n\nIt was in response to the Indian needs that the hand-held harmonium was introduced. All Indian musical instruments are played with the musician sitting on the floor or on a stage, behind the instrument or holding it in his hands. In that era, Indian homes did not use tables and chairs. Ghose altered the design of the reed-board, key-board and the bellows and made the construction simpler, and easier to manipulate and repair.\n\nGhose was close to people in the Tagore family and took care of their demands for musical instruments. He was also friendly with Upendrakishore Ray Chaudhuri, an innovative and creative person. As a personal friend of Upendrakishore Ray Chaudhuri, he visited the Brahmo Samaj regularly but did not join the organisation formally. When Jyotirindranath Tagore compiled a book with songs and swaralipi (Bengali musical notations) of several composers, Dwarkin published it as \"Swaralipigitimala\". In 1879, the organisation also published a magazine on musical matters, \"Binabadini\", edited by Jyotirindranath Tagore. It is claimed to be one of the first such magazines in Bengali.\n\nIn the initial years Dwarkin sold western musical instruments such as piano and American organ. They also sold books and notations on western music. That was the mainstay of their shop in Dalhousie Square. Later they started manufacturing Indian musical instruments such as sitar, tanpura, esraj etc.\n\nGhose’s daughter, Kumudini Biswas and his nephew Jnanendramohan were well known in the music world. His grandson, Pandit Jnan Prakash Ghosh, Padma Bhushan, was a great tabla player, who had played with most of the high ranking musicians in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "29578362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29578362", "title": "Explore (education)", "text": "Explore (education)\n\nExplore, Destination Clic, and Odyssey are three educational exchange programs administered by the Council of Ministers of Education, Canada (CMEC) and funded by the Department of Canadian Heritage to promote bilingualism in Canada.\n\nCMEC is a coordinating body for the various provincial education ministries. It operates these educational exchange programs with funding assistance from the federal Department of Canadian Heritage.\n\nThe Summer Language Bursary Program (later Explore) was created in 1971 by the Government of Canada and funded by the Secretary of State on the advice of the first Official Languages Commissioner, Kieth Spicer. This was joined by Official Language Monitor Program (now Odyssy) in 1973 and the \"Programme de bourses d’été pour francophones hors Québec\" (PBEFHQ; meaning \"Summer bursary program for French-speakers outside of Quebec\"; now Destination Clic) in 1977. By 1983, the Summer Language Bursary Program had a budget of $13 million per year, which the then-languages commission Max Yalden thought was a better investment than the \"bilingual bonus\" being paid to federal civil servants; at the time the SLBP was turning away two out of every three applicants.\n\nExplore provides bursaries for students to travel for 5 weeks to another province and immerse themselves in one of Canada's two official languages (English and French). Summer programs for language learning predate the bursaries but are now considered the main source for most students who attend them. Explore is offered during the spring or summer for people with any skill level in their second language. Explore participants are awarded a bursary that covers tuition fees for the course, instructional materials, meals, and accommodation. They will discover another region of Canada while learning French in classes adapted to your language level. Through classroom instructions, workshops, sociocultural activities, and field trips, they will not only improve their language skills, but discover the culture of a new region as well, all while exploring, meeting new people from across the country, and exchanging ideas in a stimulating environment perfect for learning their second language. \n\nDestination Clic provides bursaries for francophone youth (grades 8 and 9) to practice their French in another region of Canada.\n\nOdyssey provides a salary for Canadians to work as a language assistant working in a school. Members of the program teach their first (or stronger) language to learners from another language group. Under the supervision of a teacher, they will use games and other activities on a daily basis to motivate students to learn more about their second language. Language assistants will have the opportunity to share their culture, drawing from personal experiences.\n\nThe \"Association québécoise des écoles de français langue étrangère\" (\"Quebec Association of French as a Foreign Language Schools\", or AQEFLE, founded in 1980) is the grouping for many the institutions that receive funding from Explore. Member schools are the Centre linguistique at the Collège de Jonquière, the Ateliers de langues at Collège Saint-Charles-Garnier, the French school at the Collège de Rivière-du-Loup, the École de langues at Université Laval, the École de français at the Collège de Trois-Rivières, the École de français de Trois-Pistoles (part of the University of Western Ontario), the École de français at Collège de Sainte-Anne-de-la-Pocatière, and the French language school at Université de Montréal.\n\nThe oldest among these is the school at Trois Pistoles which was founded in 1932, and hosts over 600 learners per summer (two five-week cohorts of 250 students plus other short-stay learners) into the small town of just 3,500 residents. It is considered a major economic driver in the town and federal cuts in 2010 were perceived as a threat.\n\nThe 2011 film \"French Immersion\" is a parody of the kind of intensive french immersion course for adults funded by Explore.\n\n\nHayday, Mathew. \"So they want us to learn French: Promoting and Opposing Bilingualism in English-Speaking Canada\". UBC Press. 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "2982732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2982732", "title": "Four arts", "text": "Four arts\n\nThe four arts (四藝, \"siyi\"), or the four arts of the Chinese scholar, were the four main academic and artistic accomplishments required of the aristocratic ancient Chinese scholar-gentleman. They are \"qin\" (the guqin, a stringed instrument. 琴), \"qi\" (the strategy game of Go, 棋), \"shu\" (Chinese calligraphy 書) and \"hua\" (Chinese painting 畫).\n\nAlthough the individual elements of the concept have very long histories as activities befitting a learned person, the earliest written source putting the four together is Zhang Yanyuan's \"Fashu Yaolu\" (Compendium of Calligraphy) from the Tang Dynasty.\nQin 琴 is the musical instrument of the literati, the guqin. Although it exclusively meant this instrument in ancient times, it has now come to mean all musical instruments, but essentially it refers to guqin only considering the context.\n\nThe guqin is a seven-stringed zither that owes its invention to the Chinese society of some 3,000 years ago. During the reign of the imperial China, a scholar was expected to play the guqin . Guqin was explored as an art-form as well as a science, and scholars strove to both play it well and to create texts on its manipulation. Gǔqín notation was invented some 1,500 years ago, and to this day it has not been drastically changed. Some books contain musical pieces written and mastered more than 500 years ago. Guqin is so influential that it even made its way into space: the spacecraft Voyager launched by the U.S. in 1977 contained a vinyl style record of a guqin piece named \"Flowing Water\". The fact that the guqin's name breaks down to \"gu\" (old) and \"qin\" (musical instrument) reveals the instrument's great antiquity.\n\nQi 棋 is a board game and art form which is now called weiqi (圍棋) in Chinese (\"go\" in Japan and the West), literally meaning \"surrounding game.\" Current definitions of \"qi\" cover a wide range of board games, and given that in classical Chinese qí could also refer to other games, some argue that the qí in the four arts could refer to xiangqi. However, xiangqi is often considered a popular \"game of the people,\" whereas weiqi was a game with aristocratic connotations. \n\nMany theories exist regarding the origin of weiqi in Chinese history. One of these holds that it was an ancient fortune-telling device used by Chinese cosmologists to simulate the universe's relationship to an individual. Another suggests that the legendary Emperor Yao invented it to enlighten his son. Certainly weiqi had begun to take hold around the 6th century BCE when Confucius mentioned wéiqí in his Analects 17:22.\n\nWeiqi is a game in which two players take turns placing black and white stones on a board consisting of a grid of 19x19 lines. Stones are placed on the intersections of the grid. Once placed on the board, stones may not be moved, but stones may be removed if a stone or group of stones is surrounded on four sides by stones of the opposing color occupying all orthogonally-adjacent points. The two players place stones alternately until they reach a point at which neither player wishes to make another move; the game has no set ending conditions beyond this. At the conclusion of the game, it is scored by counting the territory encircled by each side (empty space along with captured stones) and the number of stones remaining on the board to determine the winner. Games may also be won by resignation.\n\nAncient weiqi texts are prized among modern Chinese weiqi professionals, as seen below in the translation of an ancient strategy book:\nShu 書 refers to Chinese calligraphy, which dates to the origins of recorded Chinese history, in essence ever since written characters have existed. Chinese calligraphy is said to be an expression of a practitioner's poetic nature, as well as a significant test of manual dexterity. Chinese calligraphy has evolved for thousands of years, and its state of flux stopped only when Chinese characters were unified across the empire. Chinese calligraphy differs from western calligraphic script in the sense that it was done with a brush instead of metal implements or a quill. Calligraphy was the art by which a scholar could compose his thoughts to be immortalized. It was the scholar's means of creating expressive poetry and sharing his or her own learnedness.\n\nCalligraphic process is also structured in the same way as weiqi. A minimalist set of rules conveys a system of incredible complexity and grandeur. Every character from the Chinese scripts is built into a uniform shape by means of assigning it a geometric area in which the character must occur. Only three basic forms are used in the creation of the character, those being square, triangle and circle. Each character has a set number of brushstrokes, none must be added or taken away from the character to enhance it visually, lest the meaning be lost. Finally, strict regularity is not required, meaning the strokes may be accentuated for dramatic effect or individual style. Calligraphy was the means by which scholars could mark their thoughts and teachings for immortality, and as such, represent some of the more precious treasures that can be found from ancient China.\n\nHua 畫 refers to Chinese painting. Brush painting is the final of the arts that a scholar is expected to learn, and is arguably the greatest measure of individual creativity. Through painting a Chinese noble would demonstrate his mastery over the art of line. Often Chinese paintings would be produced on a sheet of plain white rice-paper or silk using nothing but black ink and a single brush. These paintings were made to demonstrate the power of a single line, and in them was reflected a skill that valued intentional and calculated strokes over instinctual erratic creation. In a Chinese painting was reflected the artist's ability to evaluate his own imagination and record it clearly and concisely. Chinese painting can be traced back even further than calligraphy. Some examples date back to the decorative paintings that were emblazoned on Neolithic pottery. To add tonal quality to paintings the artists would often paint portions of the subject then wash the cloth before continuing. This made for beautiful landscapes and depictions of ritual. Painting was the art by which a scholar could separate him or herself from the others and take a name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45705253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45705253", "title": "Funeral celebrant", "text": "Funeral celebrant\n\nFuneral celebrant is a formal term denoting members of a group of non-clergy professionals who are committed to preparing and delivering high quality funeral ceremonies, which are not closely linked to any religion or to belief in an after-life. The concept of funeral celebrants is analogous in Western countries to that of civil celebrants (for marriages). It began in Australia in 1975. On 19 July 1973 the Australian attorney-general Lionel Murphy had appointed civil marriage celebrants with the aim of creating ceremonies of substance and meaning for non-church people. As secular (civil) marriage ceremonies became accepted, first in Australia and then in other Western countries, it was inevitable that a similar philosophical paradigm would be applied to secular funerals.\n\nA civil funeral celebrant is an individual person, quite often, but not necessarily, an authorised civil marriage celebrant, who offers to perform civil funerals in a dignified and culturally acceptable manner, for those who, for whatever reason, do not choose a religious ceremony.\nCivil funeral celebrants also serve people who have religious beliefs but do not wish to be buried or cremated from a church, temple or mosque. More frequently, people choose civil funeral celebrants because they wish a professional person to co-create a service centred on the person, their history and their achievements.\n\nThis is often in contrast to the established set-ritual ceremonies of most religions. In celebrant ceremonies decisions about the content of the ceremony are made by the family of the deceased in consultation with the celebrant. Therefore, the civil celebrant can be defined as a professionally trained ceremony-provider who works in accordance with the wishes of the client. Depending on circumstances, best practice is usually for funeral celebrants to interview the family, carefully prepare and check the eulogy, brief those persons chosen to give reminiscences, and finally to provide resources and suggestions that will assist the client family to choose the most appropriate music, video/photo presentations, quotations (poetry and prose), symbols and movement or choreography. Sometimes a rehearsal is indicated for a funeral. More often a planning session is sufficient to ensure that the ceremony that is delivered is the one that is planned. In this task the funeral celebrant works in cooperation with a funeral director.\n\nThus the celebrant is usually the central person who delivers the ceremony. He or she is the facilitator, the adviser, the resource person, the co-creator of the ceremony, and the director.\n\nA celebrant, by this definition, does not come from the standpoint of any doctrinal belief or unbelief. A trained celebrant usually operates professionally on the principle that their own beliefs and values are not relevant.\n\nAn acknowledged pioneer of civil Celebrancy, Dally Messenger III claims to have officiated at the first funeral celebrant ceremony. This was in the sense that the client sought a service from Messenger, as a government appointed civil celebrant, and as a professional ceremony provider. There had occasionally been secular funeral ceremonies before this date, but they were extremely rare and informal, e.g. some words spoken at the graveside by members of the Communist party. In general, funerals were considered to be the province of the clergy - even for unbelievers. For example, many funerals for non-believers were performed by the Salvation army. \n\nDally Messenger III records that this first celebrant funeral was for Helen Francis (née Grieves) on 2 July 1975 at the Le Pine Funeral Parlour in Ferntree Gully, a suburb of Melbourne in the state of Victoria. Helen Francis was a young woman who had engaged Messenger as a celebrant for her wedding to Roy Francis some four weeks previously. Roy Francis convinced Messenger that just as his wife was entitled to a civil celebrant marriage, she was similarly entitled to a civil celebrant funeral. Some 200 people attended and many urged Messenger to continue the work as \"much more important than weddings.\" Messenger credits Dennis Perry, then brother in law of Helen Francis, of being a decisive influence.\n\nFrom this time on some marriage celebrants began to quietly and carefully officiate at funerals when they were asked to do so. On Tuesday 3 May 1977 a group, consisting of some authorised marriage celebrants and some other persons formed an association - \"The Funeral Celebrants Association of Australia\". Dally Messenger III was elected the inaugural president. Funeral Directors and clergy attended as supportive members of the Association. For them it solved the problem of appropriate ceremony providers for the increasing number families for whom a religious ceremony was no longer an authentic option. For many years this had been an uncomfortable problem for which there had been no good solution.\n\nThese innovations soon produced a bitter controversy. In a time when death and funerals were almost taboo subjects, the majority of marriage celebrants were viscerally opposed to being associated with funerals. Most, supported by the public servants of the Commonwealth’s Attorney-General’s Department, viewed the situation of civil marriage celebrants also being funeral celebrants as \"using their appointment as civil marriage celebrants, to commercially exploit vulnerable people in their time of grief\".\n\nMost of those marriage celebrants who had attended the inaugural meeting then withdrew their support. The few \"marriage celebrant associations\" declared their opposition to funerals. However, Lionel Murphy, then a judge of the High Court of Australia, encouraged Messenger to go out into the \"highways and byways\" and find non-marriage celebrants to fulfil the societal need. \n\nMurphy urged Messenger and his colleagues to prepare each ceremony well, to charge a reasonable fee to ensure long term sustainability, and to see the civil ceremony as a cultural bridge between ordinary people and the rich world of the visual and performing arts - especially music, English literature, and poetry.\n\nThe few marriage celebrants of that time (1975-1976) involved - notably Dally Messenger III and Marjorie Messenger - were in the years and months following (to 1980) joined by non-marriage celebrants, Brian McInerney, Diane Storey, Dawn Dickson, Jean Nugent, Ken Woodburn and Jan Tully. A decisive influence later was marriage celebrant, mayor of Croydon, and public advocate Rick Barclay. Messenger credits these persons with establishing the profession in Melbourne, and subsequently throughout the western world.\n\nAs with marriage celebrants, public acceptance of funeral celebrants was enthusiastic and rapid. The early celebrants reported the commonly expressed need of non-church people to have a funeral that was personal in nature, with a minimum of platitudes, and also a personal eulogy that was well prepared, and substantial in its coverage of the life of the person who had died. There was a strong antipathy to mistakes which people had experienced in funeral services, such as factual errors: the deceased being called by the wrong name, or a mispronounced name, as was characteristic of many under-prepared and ritualistic funeral ceremonies provided by the churches. The public also required that music, quotations and individual tributes be appropriate to the deceased person. (Clergy were then induced to compete with these standards and were thus led to provide more personalised ceremonies.)\n\nThe new Funeral Celebrants needed to establish working relationships with the Funeral Directors, whose role was to collect, prepare, and store the bodies of the deceased. Funeral directors were then (1970s and 1980s) mostly smaller family owned firms. Funeral Directors John and Rob Allison of John Allison Monkhouse (Melbourne, Victoria) were particularly supportive of Funeral Celebrants. So was the active idealist Des Tobin, General Manager of Tobin Brothers Funeral Parlours of Melbourne. The fee that funeral directors had customarily paid to the clergy was not a fee for service but merely an \"offering\", since the general presumption was that the client was a churchgoer, who had donated to the upkeep of the clergy all his or her life.\n\nFuneral Celebrants argued that those who required a personally prepared service, which required many extra hours of preparation, should pay more. Rob Allison agreed, and a two-tiered structure of fees was established. The Funeral Directors argued that the fee should be fixed so they could quote costs clearly to the client. The resulting two-tiered fee acknowledged that civil funeral celebrants had no other sources of income such as the clergy had. However, this happened only in Victoria. Funeral Directors in other states of Australia refused to pay celebrants any more than they had decided to pay the clergy. This led predictably to unsatisfactory standards and uninspiring funeral services. See below under \"Australian States other than Victoria\".\n\nIt also became clear, as funeral celebrancy became an organised profession, that it was not appropriate for funeral celebrants to learn how to carry out the work by learning from one’s mistakes and experience while ‘on the job’. Celebrants observed that mistakes made in funeral ceremonies could leave lifelong psychological scars. It was clear that skills such as creative writing and public speaking, a knowledge of suitable poetic, literary, symbolic and musical resources, an awareness of punctuality and time, appropriate dress and similar were essential. It was clear that a formal educational and training process was required.\n\nExperienced celebrants maintained it was crucial for trainee celebrants to achieve an understanding of the \"grief process\" and how it impacted on their work. The Australian lecture tour of a renowned scholar in this area, Elisabeth Kübler-Ross, organised by funeral celebrant Diane Storey, received wide media publicity and was credited with changing social attitudes to death and dying. Training, in the informal sense, began by constant reflective interaction among the original celebrants who all knew each other. Later on when more funeral celebrants were attracted to the vocation, programs of seminars were set up by celebrants Beverley Silvius, Diane Storey and Brian and Tina McInerney. This body of learning was later incorporated into the courses more formally prepared by the College of Celebrancy in 1995.\n\nIt was agreed that adequate training of celebrants must leave them capable of providing the standards the general public expected such as full personal interaction and cooperation with the family, careful preparation of a historical and personal eulogy, attentive choosing of readings (poetry and prose), music, choreography (processionals and recessionals), symbolism, and an appropriate setting and place for the ceremony. Another essential was that Celebrants should check the eulogy and the ceremony with a member of the family, so that harmful mistakes were avoided. In short, funeral ceremonies were viewed as a serious responsibility which should be prepared with efficiency and attention to detail, requiring an attitude of genuineness, empathy and compassion.\nThe high ideals of the original celebrants and the ones who slowly joined their ranks changed the nature of the funeral ceremony scene in Melbourne and Victoria. They professed to offer the best and most personal funerals which existed in the Western world. This high standard is well acknowledged by Professor Tony Walter, lecturer and reader in Death and Society at the University of Reading UK. Professor Walter particularly singles out for commentary two celebrants he considered outstanding, Brian McInerney and Rick Barclay.\n\nInternational acknowledgment was provided by a comprehensive article in Time Magazine (September 2004) reporting that in the \"liberal\" cities of Melbourne (Australia) and Auckland (New Zealand) civil celebrants \"conduct substantially more than half of the funerals.\" It reported that before 1973 only clergy funerals were available to the general public in Australia and New Zealand. The article describes celebrant funerals as \"intimate and personalised\". But it also cited an alternative point of view by atheist sociologist Mira Crouch who stated that celebrant funerals were \"mawkish and sentimental\".\n\nIn January 1992 the ‘’Funeral Celebrants Association of Australia’’ had become the ‘’Australian Institute of Civil Celebrants’’. This new body was able to welcome marriage celebrants, who were increasingly in disagreement with the Marriage Celebrants Associations, which continued to oppose secular funeral celebrants. An active marriage celebrant with a public profile, Rick Barclay was voted in as President, Dally Messenger III as Secretary, and Ken Woodburn as Treasurer. These three administered the Institute until it became ‘’The Australian Federation of Civil Celebrants Inc’’ in January 1994. Although no reliable statistics were kept In Melbourne or Victoria by any reputable authority, informal checks of the funerals services as advertised in the Melbourne newspapers by celebrant John Dean concluded that in 1998 about 82% of all advertised funeral services in Melbourne were performed by civil funeral celebrants.\n\nFuneral Directors in states of Australia other than Victoria still refused to pay celebrants any more than they paid the clergy i.e. a low \"stipend\" or \"offering\". The results were predictable. With some notable exceptions, very few marriage celebrants were prepared to put the amount of painstaking time and effort into the preparation and checking of funeral ceremonies that was required to reach the Victorian standard. Many Funeral Directors in these states saw celebrants as a threat to their income and were openly hostile. Several firms declared every member of their staff a celebrant. Others employed an in-house celebrant who was required to perform 13 or 14 funeral ceremonies per week — compelling such employees to resort to one-size-fits-all impersonal ceremonies. A \"celebrant funeral\" in these contexts became the worst option available. As author and commentator Robert Larkins put it, speaking of one family’s experience-\n\nAs church attendances declined, funeral directors in New South Wales pushed non-church people into organising \"family ceremonies\". A few families proved capable of this, but most were not.\n\nAs inflation took hold during the years 1990 to 2009 the value of money declined. Funeral Directors in Australia, who effectively controlled fees for celebrants, held out against any increases in payments.\n\nThe loss of support for celebrants due to the retirements of idealist Funeral Directors such as Rob and John Allison and Desmond Tobin was keenly felt. The takeover of the small and middle size Funeral Companies by the multinational company Invocare Limited, meant there was little interest in any celebrant standards of ceremony. Larkins lists five pages of Funeral Homes purchased by Invocare Limited including such names as Simplicity Funerals, White Lady Funerals, Tobin Brothers Funerals and Le Pine Funerals. All these smaller firms kept their original names, thus misleading the public as to ownership. Notwithstanding the above, a core group of Funeral Celebrants throughout Australia still provide the public with funeral ceremonies in accordance with the original ideals.\n\nIn the late 1970s New Zealand followed Australia in establishing funeral celebrants and have had an untroubled history. The Humanist Society of England and Scotland, after many visits to Australia in the 1980s, established a wide network of quality funeral celebrants characterised by a strong non-religious stance. Others in the UK have set themselves up as Civil Funeral Celebrants based on the Australian/Victorian model. They are gaining wide acceptance. The USA Celebrant Foundation, established by graduates of the Australian-based International College of Celebrancy in 2003, has emerged as the leading organisation in training and educating civil celebrants in the USA. Originally a force for secular wedding and naming ceremonies, since 2009 some civil celebrants in the USA have become more involved in high standard funeral ceremonies.\n"}
{"id": "56637216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56637216", "title": "Glyptology", "text": "Glyptology\n\nGlyptology is the study of engraved gems, or of engravings on gems. \n\n"}
{"id": "3335589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3335589", "title": "Headliner (TV programme)", "text": "Headliner (TV programme)\n\nHeadliner () is a TV show produced by Radio Television Hong Kong discussing current affairs in Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "4082298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4082298", "title": "Hessian (boot)", "text": "Hessian (boot)\n\nHessian (; from Hesse in Germany) refers to a style of light boot that became popular from the beginning of the 19th century. \n\nFirst worn by German soldiers in the 18th century, these military riding boots became popular in England, particularly during the Regency period (1811-1820), with their polished leather and ornamental tassels. Initially used as standard issue footwear for light cavalry regiments, especially hussars, they would become widely worn by civilians as well.\n\nThe boots had a low heel, and a semi-pointed toe that made them practical for mounted troops, as they allowed easy use of stirrups. They reached to the knee and had a decorative tassel at the top of each shaft, with a \"v\" notch in front.\nThe Hessian boot would evolve into the rubber work boots known as \"wellies\" and the cowboy boot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "489575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489575", "title": "Holi", "text": "Holi\n\nHoli (; \"Holī\") is a Hindu spring festival, originating from India, celebrated predominantly in India but has also spread to Nepal and many other Western countries, also known as the \"festival of colours\" or the \"festival of love\". The festival signifies the victory of good over evil, the arrival of spring, end of winter, and for many a festive day to meet others, play and laugh, forget and forgive, and repair broken relationships. It is also celebrated as a thanksgiving for a good harvest. It lasts for a night and a day, starting on the evening of the Purnima (Full Moon day) falling in the Vikram Samvat Hindu Calendar month of Phalgun, which falls somewhere between the end of February and the middle of March in the Gregorian calendar. The first evening is known as Holika Dahan or Chhoti Holi and the following day as Holi, Rangwali Holi, Dhuleti, Dhulandi, or Phagwah.\nHoli is an ancient Hindu religious festival which has become popular with non-Hindus in many parts of South Asia, as well as people of other communities outside Asia. In addition to India and Nepal, the festival is celebrated by Indian subcontinent diaspora in countries such as Jamaica, Suriname, Guyana, Trinidad and Tobago, South Africa, Malaysia, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Mauritius, and Fiji. In recent years the festival has spread to parts of Europe and North America as a spring celebration of love, frolic, and colours.\n\nHoli celebrations start on the night before Holi with a Holika Dahan where people gather, perform religious rituals in front of the bonfire, and pray that their internal evil be destroyed the way Holika, the sister of the demon king Hiranyakashipu, was killed in the fire. The next morning is celebrated as Rangwali Holi – a free-for-all festival of colours, where people smear each other with colours and drench each other. Water guns and water-filled balloons are also used to play and colour each other. Anyone and everyone is fair game, friend or stranger, rich or poor, man or woman, children and elders. The frolic and fight with colours occurs in the open streets, open parks, outside temples and buildings. Groups carry drums and other musical instruments, go from place to place, sing and dance. People visit family, friends and foes to throw coloured powders on each other, laugh and gossip, then share Holi delicacies, food and drinks. Some customary drinks include bhang (made from cannabis), which is intoxicating. In the evening, after sobering up, people dress up and visit friends and family.\n\nThere is a symbolic legend to explain why Holi is celebrated as a festival of colours in the honour of Hindu god Vishnu and his follower Prahlada. King Hiranyakashipu, according to a legend found in chapter 7 of \"Bhagavata Purana\", was the king of demonic Asuras, and had earned a boon that gave him five special powers: he could be killed by neither a human being nor an animal, neither indoors nor outdoors, neither at day nor at night, neither by \"astra\" (projectile weapons) nor by any \"shastra\" (handheld weapons), and neither on land nor in water or air. Hiranyakashipu grew arrogant, thought he was God, and demanded that everyone worship only him.\n\nHiranyakashipu's own son, Prahlada, however, disagreed. He was and remained devoted to Vishnu. This infuriated Hiranyakashipu. He subjected Prahlada to cruel punishments, none of which affected the boy or his resolve to do what he thought was right. Finally, Holika, Prahlada's evil aunt, tricked him into sitting on a pyre with her. Holika was wearing a cloak that made her immune to injury from fire, while Prahlada was not. As the fire roared, the cloak flew from Holika and encased Prahlada, who survived while Holika burned. Vishnu, the god who appears as an avatar to restore Dharma in Hindu beliefs, took the form of Narasimha - half human and half lion, at dusk (when it was neither day nor night), took Hiranyakashyapu at a doorstep (which was neither indoors nor outdoors), placed him on his lap (which was neither land, water nor air), and then eviscerated and killed the king with his lion claws (which were neither a handheld weapon nor a launched weapon).\n\nThe Holika bonfire and Holi signifies the celebration of the symbolic victory of good over evil, of Prahlada over Hiranyakashipu, and of the fire that burned Holika.\n\nIn the Braj region of India, where the Hindu deity Krishna grew up, the festival is celebrated until Rangpanchmi in commemoration of the divine love of Radha for Krishna. The festivities officially usher in spring, with Holi celebrated as a festival of love. There is a symbolic myth behind commemorating Krishna as well. As a baby, Krishna developed his characteristic dark skin colour because the she-demon \"Putana\" poisoned him with her breast milk. In his youth, Krishna despaired whether the fair-skinned Radha and other girls would like him because of his skin colour. His mother, tired of the desperation, asks him to approach Radha and colour her face in any colour he wanted. This he does, and Radha and Krishna became a couple. Ever since, the playful colouring of Radha's face has been commemorated as Holi. Beyond India, these legends to explain the significance of Holi (\"Phagwah\") are common in some Caribbean and South American communities of Indian origin such as Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago. It is also celebrated with great fervour in Mauritius.\n\nAmong other Hindu traditions such as Shaivism and Shaktism, the legendary significance of Holi is linked to Shiva in yoga and deep meditation, goddess Parvati wanting to bring back Shiva into the world, seeks help from the Hindu god of love called Kama on Vasant Panchami. The love god shoots arrows at Shiva, the yogi opens his third eye and burns Kama to ashes. This upsets both Kama's wife \"Rati\" (\"Kamadevi\") and his own wife \"Parvati\". \"Rati\" performs her own meditative asceticism for forty days, upon which Shiva understands, forgives out of compassion and restores the god of love. This return of the god of love, is celebrated on the 40th day after Vasant Panchami festival as Holi. The Kama legend and its significance to Holi has many variant forms, particularly in South India.\n\nThe Holi festival has a cultural significance among various Hindu traditions of the Indian subcontinent. It is the festive day to end and rid oneself of past errors, to end conflicts by meeting others, a day to forget and forgive. People pay or forgive debts, as well as deal anew with those in their lives. Holi also marks the start of spring, for many the start of the new year, an occasion for people to enjoy the changing seasons and make new friends.\n\nThe festival has traditionally been also observed by non-Hindus, such as by Jains and Newar Buddhists (Nepal).\n\nSikhs have traditionally celebrated the festival, at least through the 19th century, with its historic texts referring to it as \"Hola\". Guru Gobind Singh – the last human guru of the Sikhs – modified Holi with a three-day Hola Mohalla extension festival of martial arts. The extension started the day after the Holi festival in Anandpur Sahib, where Sikh soldiers would train in mock battles, compete in horsemanship, athletics, archery and military exercises.\n\nHoli was observed by Maharaja Ranjit Singh and his Sikh Empire that extended across what are now northern parts of India and Pakistan. According to a report by Tribune India, Sikh court records state that 300 mounds of colours were used in 1837 by Ranjit Singh and his officials in Lahore. Ranjit Singh would celebrate Holi with others in the Bilawal gardens, where decorative tents were set up. In 1837, Sir Henry Fane who was the commander-in-chief of the British Indian army joined the Holi celebrations organised by Ranjit Singh. A mural in the Lahore Fort was sponsored by Ranjit Singh and it showed the Hindu god Krishna playing Holi with gopis. After the death of Ranjit Singh, his Sikh sons and others continued to play Holi every year with colours and lavish festivities. The colonial British officials joined these celebrations.\n\nHoli is an important spring festival for Hindus, a national holiday in India and Nepal with regional holidays in other countries. To many Hindus and some non-Hindus, it is a playful cultural event and an excuse to throw coloured water at friends or strangers in jest. It is also observed broadly in the Indian subcontinent. Holi is celebrated at the end of winter, on the last full moon day of the Hindu luni-solar calendar month marking the spring, making the date vary with the lunar cycle. The date falls typically in March, but sometimes late February of the Gregorian calendar.\nThe festival has many purposes; most prominently, it celebrates the beginning of Spring. In 17th century literature, it was identified as a festival that celebrated agriculture, commemorated good spring harvests and the fertile land. Hindus believe it is a time of enjoying spring's abundant colours and saying farewell to winter. To many Hindus, Holi festivities mark the beginning of the new year as well as an occasion to reset and renew ruptured relationships, end conflicts and rid themselves of accumulated emotional impurities from the past.\n\nIt also has a religious purpose, symbolically signified by the legend of Holika. The night before Holi, bonfires are lit in a ceremony known as Holika Dahan (burning of Holika) or Little Holi. People gather near fires, sing and dance. The next day, Holi, also known as \"Dhuli\" in Sanskrit, or \"Dhulheti\", \"Dhulandi\" or \"Dhulendi\", is celebrated. \n\nIn Northern parts of India, Children and youth spray coloured powder solutions (\"gulal\") at each other, laugh and celebrate, while adults smear dry coloured powder (\"abir\") on each other's faces. Visitors to homes are first teased with colours, then served with Holi delicacies (such as \"puranpoli\", \"dahi-bada\" and \"gujia\"), desserts and drinks. After playing with colours, and cleaning up, people bathe, put on clean clothes, and visit friends and family.\n\nThe Holi festival is an ancient Hindu festival with its cultural rituals. It is mentioned in the Puranas, Dasakumara Charita, and by the poet Kālidāsa during the 4th century reign of Chandragupta II. The celebration of Holi is also mentioned in the 7th-century Sanskrit drama \"Ratnavali\". The festival of Holi caught the fascination of European traders and British colonial staff by the 17th century. Various old editions of Oxford English Dictionary mention it, but with varying, phonetically derived spellings: \"Houly\" (1687), \"Hooly\" (1698), \"Huli\" (1789), \"Hohlee\" (1809), \"Hoolee\" (1825), and \"Holi\" in editions published after 1910.\n\nThere are several cultural rituals associated with Holi:\n\nDays before the festival people start gathering wood and combustible materials for the bonfire in parks, community centers, near temples and other open spaces. On top of the pyre is an effigy to signify Holika who tricked Prahalad into the fire. Inside homes, people stock up on pigments, food, party drinks and festive seasonal foods such as \"gujiya\", \"mathri\", \"malpuas\" and other regional delicacies.\n\nOn the eve of Holi, typically at or after sunset, the pyre is lit, signifying Holika Dahan. The ritual symbolises the victory of good over evil. People gather around the fire to sing and dance.\n\nHoli frolic and celebrations begin the morning after the Holika bonfire. There is no tradition of holding \"puja\" (prayer), and the day is for partying and pure enjoyment. Children and young people form groups armed with dry colours, coloured solution and water guns (\"pichkaris\"), water balloons filled with coloured water, and other creative means to colour their targets.\nTraditionally, washable natural plant-derived colours such as turmeric, neem, dhak, and kumkum were used, but water-based commercial pigments are increasingly used. All colours are used. Everyone in open areas such as streets and parks is game, but inside homes or at doorways only dry powder is used to smear each other's face. People throw colours and get their targets completely coloured up. It is like a water fight, but with coloured water. People take delight in spraying coloured water on each other. By late morning, everyone looks like a canvas of colours. This is why Holi is given the name \"Festival of Colours\".\n\nGroups sing and dance, some playing drums and \"dholak\". After each stop of fun and play with colours, people offer gujiya, mathri, malpuas and other traditional delicacies. Cold drinks, including adult drinks based on local intoxicating herbs, are also part of the Holi festivity.\n\n\nIn the Braj region around Mathura, in north India, the festivities may last more than a week. The rituals go beyond playing with colours, and include a day where men go around with shields and women have the right to playfully beat them on their shields with sticks.\n\nIn south India, some worship and make offerings to Kaamadeva, the love god of Indian mythology.\n\nAfter a day of play with colours, people clean up, wash and bathe, sober up and dress up in the evening and greet friends and relatives by visiting them and exchanging sweets. Holi is also a festival of forgiveness and new starts, which ritually aims to generate harmony in the society.\n\n\"Holi\" (, , , , , ) is also known as Phakuwa or Phagwah (), Festival of Colours, or Dola jātra in Odisha, and as Dol Jatra () or Basanto utsav (\"spring festival\") in West Bengal and Assam. The customs and celebrations vary between regions of India.\nHoli is of particular significance in the Braj region, which includes locations traditionally associated with the Lord Krishna: Mathura, Vrindavan, Nandgaon, Uttar Pradesh, and Barsana, which become touristic during the season of Holi.\n\nOutside India and Nepal, Holi is observed by the minority Hindus in Bangladesh and Pakistan as well in countries with large Indian subcontinent diaspora populations such as Suriname, Guyana, Trinidad and Tobago, South Africa, Malaysia, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, Mauritius, and Fiji. The Holi rituals and customs outside South Asia also vary with local adaptations.\n\nIn Gujarat, Holi is a two-day festival. On the evening of the first day people light the bonfire. People offer raw coconut and corn to the fire. The second day is the festival of colour or \"Dhuleti\", celebrated by sprinkling coloured water and applying colours to each other. Dwarka, a coastal city of Gujarat, celebrates Holi at the Dwarkadheesh temple and with citywide comedy and music festivities. Falling in the Hindu month of \"Phalguna\", Holi marks the agricultural season of the rabi crop.\n\nIn Ahmedabad in Gujarat, in western India, a pot of buttermilk is hung high over the streets and young boys try to reach it and break it by making human pyramids. The girls try to stop them by throwing coloured water on them to commemorate the pranks of Krishna and the cowherd boys to steal butter and \"gopis\" while trying to stop the girls. The boy who finally manages to break the pot is crowned the Holi King. Afterwards, the men, who are now very colourful, go out in a large procession to \"alert\" people of Krishna's possible appearance to steal butter from their homes.\n\nIn some places there is a custom in undivided Hindu families that the woman beats her brother-in-law with a sari rolled up into a rope in a mock rage and tries to drench him with colours, and in turn, the brother-in-law brings sweets (Indian desserts) to her in the evening.\n\nBarsana, a town near Mathura in the Braj region of Uttar Pradesh, celebrates Lath mar Holi in the sprawling compound of the Radha Rani temple. Thousands gather to witness the Lath Mar Holi when women beat up men with sticks as those on the sidelines become hysterical, sing Holi songs and shout \"Sri Radhey\" or \"Sri Krishna\". The Holi songs of Braj mandal are sung in pure Braj, the local language. Holi celebrated at Barsana is unique in the sense that here women chase men away with sticks. Males also sing provocative songs in a bid to invite the attention of women. Women then go on the offensive and use long staves called lathis to beat the men, who protect themselves with shields.\n\nMathura, in the Braj region, is the birthplace of Lord Krishna. In Vrindavan this day is celebrated with special puja and the traditional custom of worshipping Lord Krishna; here the festival lasts for sixteen days. All over the Braj region and neighboring places like Hathras, Aligarh, and Agra, Holi is celebrated in more or less the same way as in Mathura, Vrindavan and Barsana.\nA traditional celebration includes \"Matki Phod\", similar to \"Dahi Handi\" in Maharashtra and Gujarat during Krishna Janmashtami, both in the memory of god Krishna who is also called \"makhan chor\" (literally, butter thief). This is a historic tradition of the Braj region as well as the western region of India. An earthen pot filled with butter or other milk products is hung high by a rope. Groups of boys and men climb on each other's shoulder to form pyramids to reach and break it, while girls and women sing songs and throw coloured water on the pyramid to distract them and make their job harder. This ritual sport continues in Hindu diaspora communities.\n\nOutside Braj, in the Kanpur area, Holi lasts seven days with colour. On the last day, a grand fair called \"Ganga Mela\" or the \"Holi Mela\" is celebrated. This \"Mela\" (fair) was started by freedom fighters who fought British rule in the First Indian War of Independence in 1857 under the leadership of Nana Saheb. The \"Mela\" is held at various ghats along the banks of the River Ganga in Kanpur, to celebrate the Hindus and Muslims who together resisted the British forces in the city in 1857. On the eve of Ganga Mela, all government offices, shops, and courts generally remain closed. The Ganga Mela marks the official end of \"The Festival of Colours\" or Holi in Kanpur.\n\nIn Gorakhpur, the northeast district of Uttar Pradesh, the day pig Holi starts with a special puja. This day, called \"Holi Milan\", is considered to be the most colourful day of the year, promoting brotherhood among the people. People visit every house and sing Holi songs and express their gratitude by applying coloured powder (Abeer). It is also considered the beginning of the year, as it occurs on the first day of the Hindu calendar year (Panchang).\n\nKumaoni Holi in Uttarakhand includes a musical affair. It takes different forms such as the Baithki Holi, the Khari Holi and the Mahila Holi. In Baithki Holi and Khari Holi, people sing songs with a touch of melody, fun and spiritualism. These songs are essentially based on classical ragas. Baithki Holi (बैठकी होली), also known as \"Nirvan Ki Holi\", begins from the premises of temples, where \"Holiyars\" (होल्यार) sing Holi songs and people gather to participate, along with playing classical music. The songs are sung in a particular sequence depending on the time of day; for instance, at noon the songs are based on Peelu, Bhimpalasi and Sarang ragas, while evening songs are based on the ragas such as Kalyan, Shyamkalyan and Yaman. The Khari Holi (खड़ी होली) is mostly celebrated in the rural areas of Kumaon. The songs of the Khari Holi are sung by the people, who, sporting traditional white \"churidar payajama\" and \"kurta\", dance in groups to the tune of ethnic musical instruments such as the \"dhol\" and \"hurka\".\nIn the Kumaon region, the Holika pyre, known as \"Cheer\" (चीर), is ceremonially built in a ceremony known as \"Cheer Bandhan\" (चीर बंधन) fifteen days before Dulhendi. The \"Cheer\" is a bonfire with a green \"Paiya\" tree branch in the middle. The \"Cheer\" of every village and neighborhood is rigorously guarded as rival \"mohallas\" try to playfully steal each other's \"cheer\".\n\nThe colours used on Holi are derived from natural sources. Dulhendi, known as \"Charadi\" (छरड़ी) (from \"Chharad\" (छरड़)), is made from flower extracts, ash and water. Holi is celebrated with great gusto much in the same way all across North India.\n\nHoli is known as \"Phaguwa\" in the local Bhojpuri dialect. In this region as well, the legend of Holika is prevalent. On the eve of Phalgun Poornima, people light bonfires. They put dried cow dung cakes, wood of the Araad or Redi tree and Holika tree, grains from the fresh harvest and unwanted wood leaves in the bonfire. At the time of Holika people assemble near the pyre. The eldest member of the gathering or a purohit initiates the lighting. He then smears others with colour as a mark of greeting. Next day the festival is celebrated with colours and a lot of frolic. Traditionally, people also clean their houses to mark the festival.\n\nHoli Milan is also observed in Bihar, where family members and well wishers visit each other's family, apply colours (abeer) on each other's faces, and on feet, if elderly. Usually this takes place on the evening of Holi day after Holi with wet colours is played in the morning through afternoon. Due to large-scale internal migration issues faced by the people, recently this tradition has slowly begun to transform, and it is common to have Holi Milan on an entirely different day either before or after the actual day of Holi.\n\nChildren and youths take extreme delight in the festival. Though the festival is usually celebrated with colours, in some places people also enjoy celebrating Holi with water solutions of mud or clay. Folk songs are sung at high pitch and people dance to the sound of the dholak (a two-headed hand-drum) and the spirit of Holi. Intoxicating bhang, made from cannabis, milk and spices, is consumed with a variety of mouth-watering delicacies, such as pakoras and thandai, to enhance the mood of the festival.\n\nThe people of Odisha celebrate \"Dola\" on the day of Holi where the icons of Jagannath replace the icons of Krishna and Radha. Dola Melana, processions of the deities are celebrated in villages and bhoga is offered to the deities. \"Dola yatra\" was prevalent even before 1560 much before Holi was started where the idols of Jagannatha, Balabhadra and Subhadra used to be taken to the \"Dolamandapa\" (podium in Jagannath temple). People used to offer natural colours known as \"abira\" to the deities and apply on each other's feats.\n\nIn West Bengal, Holi is known by the name of \"Dol Jatra\", \"Dol Purnima\" or the \"Swing Festival\". The festival is celebrated in a dignified manner by placing the icons of Krishna and Radha on a picturesquely decorated palanquin which is then taken round the main streets of the city or the village. On the Dol Purnima day in the early morning, students dress up in saffron-coloured or pure white clothes and wear garlands of fragrant flowers. They sing and dance to the accompaniment of musical instruments, such as the ektara, dubri, and veena. The devotees take turns to swing them while women dance around the swing and sing devotional songs. During these activities, the men keep spraying coloured water and coloured powder, abir, at them.\n\nHoli, also called Phakuwa (ফাকুৱা) in Assamese, is celebrated all over Assam. Locally called Dol Jatra, associated with Satras of Barpeta, Holi is celebrated over two days. On the first day, the burning of clay huts are seen in Barpeta and lower Assam which signifies the legends of Holika. On the second day of it, Holi is celebrated with colour powders. The Holi songs in chorus devoted to Lord Krishna are also sung in the regions of Barpeta.\n\nHoli is locally called Ukkuli in Konkani. It is celebrated around the Konkani temple called Gosripuram temple. It is a part of the Goan or Konkani spring festival known as Śigmo or शिगमो in Koṅkaṇī or \"Śiśirotsava\", which lasts for about a month. The colour festival or Holi is a part of longer, more extensive spring festival celebrations. Holi festivities (but not Śigmo festivities) include: \"Holika Puja\" and \"Dahan\", \"Dhulvad\" or \"Dhuli vandan\", \"Haldune\" or offering yellow and saffron colour or \"Gulal\" to the deity.\n\nIn Maharashtra, Holi Purnima is also celebrated as Shimga, festivities that last five to seven days. A week before the festival, youngsters go around the community, collecting firewood and money. On the day of Shimga, the firewood is heaped into a huge pile in each neighborhood. In the evening, the fire is lit. Every household brings a meal and dessert, in the honour of the fire god. Puran Poli is the main delicacy and children shout \"Holi re Holi puranachi poli\". Shimga celebrates the elimination of all evil. The colour celebrations here take place on the day of Rang Panchami, five days after Shimga. During this festival, people are supposed to forget and forgive any rivalries and start new healthy relations with all.\n\nManipuris celebrate Holi for 6 days. Here, this holiday merges with the festival of Yaosang. Traditionally, the festival commences with the burning of a thatched hut of hay and twigs. Young children go from house to house to collect money, locally known as nakadeng (or nakatheng), as gifts on the first two days. The youths at night perform a group folk dance called Thabal chongba on the full moon night of Lamta (Phalgun), traditionally accompanied by folk songs and rhythmic beats of the indigenous drum, but nowadays by modern bands and fluorescent lamps. In Krishna temples, devotees sing devotional songs, perform dances and celebrate with aber (gulal) wearing traditional white and yellow turbans. On the last day of the festival, large processions are taken out to the main Krishna temple near Imphal where several cultural activities are held. In recent decades, Yaosang, a type of Indian sport, has become common in many places of the valley, where people of all ages come out to participate in a number of sports that are somewhat altered for the holiday.\n\nTraditionally, in rural Karnataka children collect money and wood in the weeks prior to Holi, and on \"Kamadahana\" night all the wood is put together and lit. The festival is celebrated for two days. People in northern parts of Karnataka prepare special food on this day.\nIn Sirsi, Karnataka, Holi is celebrated with a unique folk dance called \"Bedara Vesha\", which is performed during the nights beginning five days before the actual festival day. The festival is celebrated every alternate year in the town, which attracts a large number of tourists from different parts of the India.\n\nAs in other parts of India, in rural Telangana, children celebrate kamuda and collect money, rice, corn and wood for weeks prior to Holi, and on Kamudha night all the wood is put together and set on fire.\n\nHindus celebrate Holi as it relates to the legend of Kama Deva. Holi is known by three names: Kamavilas, Kaman Pandigai and Kama-Dahanam\n\nIn Jammu & Kashmir, Holi celebrations are much in line with the general definition of Holi celebrations: a high-spirited festival to mark the beginning of the harvesting of the summer crop, with the throwing of coloured water and powder and singing and dancing.\n\nIn Punjab, Holi is preceded by Holika Dahan the night before. On the day of Holi, people engage in throwing colours on each other. For locals, Holi marks the end of winter. The Punjabi saying 'Phaggan phal laggan' (Phagun is the month for fructifying) exemplifies the seasonal aspect of Holi. Trees and plants start blossoming from the day of Basant and start bearing fruit by Holi.\n\nDuring Holi in Punjab, walls and courtyards of rural houses are enhanced with drawings and paintings similar to rangoli in South India, \"mandana\" in Rajasthan, and rural arts in other parts of India. This art is known as \"chowk-poorana\" or \"chowkpurana\" in Punjab and is given shape by the peasant women of the state. In courtyards, this art is drawn on cloth. The art includes drawing tree motifs, flowers, ferns, creepers, plants, peacocks, palanquins, geometric patterns along with vertical, horizontal and oblique lines. These arts add to the festive atmosphere.\n\nFolk theatrical performances known as swang or nautanki take place during Holi, with the latter originating in the Punjab.\n\nHoli, along with many other Hindu festivals, is celebrated in Nepal as a national festival. It is an important major Nepal-wide festival along with Dashain and Tihar (Dipawali). It is celebrated in the Nepali month of Phagun (same date as Indian Holi), and signifies the legends of the Hindu god Krishna. Newar Buddhists and others worship Saraswati shrine in Vajrayogini temples and celebrate the festival with their Hindu friends. Traditional concerts are held in most cities in Nepal, including Kathmandu, Narayangarh, Pokhara, Hetauda, and Dharan, and are broadcast on television with various celebrity guests.\n\nPeople walk through their neighbourhoods to celebrate Holi by exchanging colours and spraying coloured water on one another. A popular activity is the throwing of water balloons at one another, sometimes called \"lola\" (meaning water balloon). Many people mix \"bhang\" in their drinks and food, as is also done during Shivaratri. It is believed that the combination of different colours at this festival takes all sorrow away and makes life itself more colourful.\n\nOver the years, Holi has become an important festival in many regions wherever Indian diaspora were either taken as indentured labourers during colonial era, or where they emigrated on their own, and are now present in large numbers such as in Africa, North America, Europe, Latin America, and parts of Asia such as Fiji.\n\n\nHoli is a national holiday in Suriname. It is called \"Phagwa\" festival, and is celebrated to mark the beginning of spring and Hindu mythology. In Suriname, Holi Phagwa is a festival of colour. It is customary to wear old white clothes on this day, be prepared to get them dirty and join in the colour throwing excitement and party.\n\nPhagwa is normally celebrated in Trinidad and Tobago on the Sunday closest to the actual date of Phagwah. It is celebrated with a lot of colour and splendour, along with the singing on traditional Phagwah songs or Chowtal (gana).\n\n\nPhagwah is a national holiday in Guyana, and peoples of all races and religions participate in the celebrations. The main celebration in Georgetown is held at the Mandir in Prashad Nagar.\n\nIndo-Fijians celebrate Holi as festival of colours, folksongs and dances. The folksongs sung in Fiji during Holi season are called \"phaag gaaian\". Phagan, also written as Phalgan, is the last month of the Hindu calendar. Holi is celebrated at the end of Phagan. Holi marks the advent of spring and ripening of crops in Northern India. Not only it is a season of romance and excitement, folk songs and dances, it is also an occasion of playing with powder, perfumes and colours. Many of the Holi songs in Fiji are around the theme of love-relationship between Radha and Krishna.\n\nHoli in Mauritius comes close on the heels of Shivaratri. It celebrates the beginning of spring, commemorating good harvests and the fertile land. Hindus believe it is a time of enjoying spring’s abundant colours and saying farewell to winter. It is considered one of the most exhilarating religious holidays in existence. During this event, participants hold a bonfire, throw coloured powder at each other, and celebrate wildly.\n\nHoli is celebrated in many US states. It is usually hosted in temples or cultural halls. Members of Hindu associations and volunteers assist in hosting the event along with temple devotees. Some of the places known to celebrate Holi are New Brunswick (NJ), Spanish Fork (Utah), Houston (TX), Dallas (TX), South El Monte (CA), Boston (MA), Potomac (MD), and Chicago (IL).\n\nIn Indonesia, Indian Indonesians and Hindu peoples celebrate Holi as festival of colours. The main celebrations in Medan and Bali.\n\nHoli is celebrated by the minority Hindu population in Pakistan. Community events by Hindus have been reported by Pakistani media in various cities such as Karachi, Hazara, Rawalpindi, Sindh, Hyderabad, Multan and Lahore.\n\nHoli was not a public holiday in Pakistan from 1947 to 2016. Holi along with Diwali for Hindus, and Easter for Christians, was adopted as public holiday resolution by Pakistan's parliament in 2016, giving the local governments and public institutions the right to declare Holi as a holiday and grant leave for its minority communities, for the first time. This decision has been controversial, with some Pakistanis welcoming the decision, while others criticising it, with the concern that declaring Holi a public holiday advertises a Hindu festival to Pakistani children.\n\nThe spring season, during which the weather changes, is believed to cause viral fever and cold. The playful throwing of natural coloured powders, called gulal has a medicinal significance: the colours are traditionally made of Neem, Kumkum, Haldi, Bilva, and other medicinal herbs prescribed by Āyurvedic doctors.\n\nMany colours are obtained by mixing primary colours. Artisans produce and sell many of the colours from natural sources in dry powder form, in weeks and months preceding Holi. Some of the traditional natural plant-based sources of colours are:\nThe flowers of palash or tesu tree, also called the flame of the forest, are typical source of bright red and deep orange colours. Powdered fragrant red sandal wood, dried hibiscus flowers, madder tree, radish, and pomegranate are alternate sources and shades of red. Mixing lime with turmeric powder creates an alternate source of orange powder, as does boiling saffron (kesar) in water.\n\nMehendi and dried leaves of gulmohur tree offer a source of green colour. In some areas, the leaves of spring crops and herbs have been used as a source of green pigment.\n\n\n\"Haldi\" (turmeric) powder is the typical source of yellow colour. Sometimes this is mixed with chickpeas, gram or other flour to get the right shade. Bael fruit, amaltas, species of chrysanthemums, and species of marigold are alternate sources of yellow.\n\nIndigo plant, Indian berries, species of grapes, blue hibiscus and jacaranda flowers are traditional sources of blue colour for Holi.\n\nBeetroot is the traditional source of magenta and purple colour. Often these are directly boiled in water to prepare coloured water.\n\nDried tea leaves offer a source of brown coloured water. Certain clays are alternate source of brown.\n\nSpecies of grapes, fruits of amla (gooseberry) and vegetable carbon (charcoal) offer gray to black colours.\n\nNatural colours were used in the past to celebrate Holi safely by applying turmeric, sandalwood paste, extracts of flowers and leaves. As the spring-blossoming trees that once supplied the colours used to celebrate Holi have become more rare, chemically produced industrial dyes have been used to take their place in almost all of urban India. Due to the commercial availability of attractive pigments, slowly the natural colours are replaced by synthetic colours. As a result, it has caused mild to severe symptoms of skin irritation and inflammation. Lack of control over the quality and content of these colours is a problem, as they are frequently sold by vendors who do not know their origin.\n\nA 2007 study found that malachite green, a synthetic bluish-green dye used in some colours during Holi festival, was responsible for severe eye irritation in Delhi, if eyes were not washed upon exposure. Though the study found that the pigment did not penetrate through the cornea, malachite green is of concern and needs further study.\n\nAnother 2009 study reports that some colours produced and sold in India contain metal-based industrial dyes, causing an increase in skin problems to some people in the days following Holi. These colours are produced in India, particularly by small informal businesses, without any quality checks and are sold freely in the market. The colours are sold without labeling, and the consumer lacks information about the source of the colours, their contents, and possible toxic effects. In recent years, several nongovernmental organisations have started campaigning for safe practices related to the use of colours. Some are producing and marketing ranges of safer colours derived from natural sources such as vegetables and flowers.\n\nThese reports have galvanised a number of groups into promoting more natural celebrations of Holi. Development Alternatives, Delhi and Kalpavriksh, – Kalpavriksh Environment Action Group, Pune, The CLEAN India campaign and Society for Child Development, through its Avacayam Cooperative Campaign have launched campaigns to help children learn to make their own colours for Holi from safer, natural ingredients. Meanwhile, some commercial companies such as the National Botanical Research Institute have begun to market \"herbal\" dyes, though these are substantially more expensive than the dangerous alternatives. However, it may be noted that many parts of rural India have always resorted to natural colours (and other parts of festivities more than colours) due to availability.\n\nIn urban areas, some people wear nose mask and sun glasses to avoid inhaling pigments and to prevent chemical exposure to eyes.\n\nAn alleged environmental issue related to the celebration of Holi is the traditional Holika bonfire, which is believed to contribute to deforestation. Activists estimate Holika causes 30,000 bonfires every year, with each one burning approximately 100 kilograms (220.46 lbs) of wood. This represents less than 0.0001% of 350 million tons of wood India consumes every year, as one of the traditional fuels for cooking and other uses.\n\nThe use of heavy metal-based pigments during Holi is also reported to cause temporary wastewater pollution, with the water systems recovering to pre-festival levels within 5 days.\n\nIn June 2015, hundreds of concert-goers in Bali District, Taiwan were severely injured in the Formosa Fun Coast explosion, including fifteen who died later in hospital, after three tons of corn starch powder mixed with food colouring was sprayed onto the crowd at a high velocity, causing a massive explosion.\n\nThe method of powder application at the concert created \"an extremely dense dust cloud over the stage and its immediate vicinity\". People near the stage were standing ankle deep in coloured corn starch powder and the powder was suspended into the air using air blowers as well as compressed gas canisters. Initial investigations into the explosion showed the ignition of the suspended corn starch powder was likely caused by a cigarette or spark. An Asia One report states that such an explosion can occur, under certain conditions, not just with corn starch but with powder form of any agricultural product such as \"powdered milk, soya flour, cornflour, rice dust, spice powders, sugar, tapioca, cocoa powder, coconut shell dust, coffee dust, garlic powder, grass dust, malted hops, lemon peel dust, oat flour, peanut skins, tea and tobacco\", and that \"the crucial element is not the composition of the powder itself, but whether it's deployed under high pressure with a flame nearby.\"\n\nAccording to Williamson, flammable powder or dust suspended in air in high concentrations is explosive. Williamson notes that \"dust cloud explosions can only occur if the dust concentration is within certain limits. In general the lowest concentration of dust that can give a dust explosion is around 50-100 g/m3 and the maximum is 2-3 kg/m3. These limits are dependent on the particular chemical in question. It is usually easy to see if a cloud is explosible, as visibility through a dust cloud - even at the lowest concentrations - is impaired.\"\n\nDuring traditional Holi celebrations in India, Rinehart writes, colours are exchanged in person by \"tenderly applying coloured powder to another person's cheek\", or by spraying and dousing others with buckets of coloured water.\n\nHoli is celebrated as a social event in parts of the United States. For example, at Sri Sri Radha Krishna Temple in Spanish Fork, Utah, \"NYC Holi Hai\" in Manhattan, New York and \"Festival of Colors: Holi NYC\" in New York City, New York, Holi is celebrated as the Festival of Color, where thousands of people gather from all over the United States, play and mingle.\n\nA number of Holi-inspired social events have also surfaced, particularly in Europe and the United States, often organised by companies as for-profit or charity events with paid admission, and with varying scheduling that does not coincide with the actual Holi festival. These have included Holi-inspired music festivals such as the Festival Of Colours Tour and Holi One (which feature timed throws of Holi powder), and 5K run franchises such as The Color Run, Holi Run and Color Me Rad, in which participants are doused with the powder at per-kilometre checkpoints. The BiH Color Festival is a Holi-inspired electronic music festival held annually in Brčko, Bosnia and Herzegovina. \n\nThere have been concerns that these events appropriate and trivialise aspects of Holi for commercial gain—downplaying or completely ignoring the cultural and spiritual roots of the celebration. Organisers of these events have argued that the costs are to cover various key aspects of their events, such as safe colour powders, safety and security, and entertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "53781318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53781318", "title": "Hotel Salvation", "text": "Hotel Salvation\n\nHotel Salvation (known in India as Mukti Bhawan) is a 2016 Indian film written and directed by Shubhashish Bhutiani and produced by Sanjay Bhutiani. The film is a comedy-drama about a son who is forced to set his job aside to accompany his elderly father to the holy city of Varanasi. It stars Adil Hussain and Lalit Behl in the lead roles. The film received four nominations at the 63rd Filmfare Awards, including Best Film (Critics).\n\nMukti Bhawan follows the story of a reluctant son who must take his father to the holy city of Varanasi, where his father believes he will breathe his last and attain salvation. \nWhen a 77-year-old man, Daya, wakes up from a strange nightmare, he knows his time is up and he must get to Varanasi immediately in hope of dying there to attain salvation. His dutiful son, Rajiv, is left with no choice but to drop everything and make the journey with his stubborn father, leaving behind his wife and daughter.\nThe two of them check into MuktiBhawan, a hotel devoted to people hoping to spend their last days there. Rajiv finds himself having to live and take care of his father for the first time in his life. \nWhile Rajiv struggles to juggle his responsibilities back home, Daya starts to bloom as he finds a sense of community in the hotel, and a companion in the 75-year old Vimla. \nAs the days go by and Daya shows no sign of letting up, Rajiv is faced with the dilemma of whether to remain there with his father or fulfill his duty back home. \nRajiv gives his father a shot at salvation but as family bonds are tested, he finds himself torn, not knowing what he must do to keep his life together.\n\nFaced with his father's untimely and bizarre demand to go and die in the holy city of Varanasi and attain Salvation, a son is left with no choice but to embark on this journey.\n\nMukti Bhawan had its world premiere on September 2, 2016 at the 73rd Venice International Film Festival while in India its release date was April 7, 2017.\n\nThe film received universal critical acclaim.\nOn Rotten Tomatoes \"Mukti Bhawan\" has an approval rating of 100% based on 15 reviews, with an average rating of 7.8 out of 10. On Metacritic, another review aggregator, the film has a score of 80 out of 100 based on 4 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". Leslie Felperin of The Guardian gave the film a rating of 4 stars out of 5 and said that, \"Shubhashish Bhutiani’s dreamy comedy-drama about a businessman embarking on a final journey with his father is smart, spellbinding and achingly relatable\". David Parkinson of Empire gave the film a rating of 4 stars out of 5 and said that, \"Filmed on a modest budget with a subtle sense of place and pace, this highly impressive debut considers mortality with a wry compassion that's rare for such a young director\".\n\nRajeev Masand gave the film a rating of 4 stars out of 5 saying that, \"Mukti Bhawan is as much a celebration of life – complete with all its complexities and paradoxes – as it is a meditation on the harsh realities of getting old and dying. It is both poignant and uplifting. Beautifully shot and although languidly paced, Bhutiani delivers an evocative drama that has surely got to be one the best films you’ll see this year.\" Raja Sen of NDTV gave the film a rating of 4.5 stars out of 5 and concluded his review by saying that, \"In the way companionship and clarity can be found without looking. In the way an accountant works at learning to cook. In the way soap operas provide succour. Somewhere in the middle of this beautiful, meditative film comes the greatest lesson of all: that a perfect, poetic goodbye doesn't have to wait for the end.\". Shubhra Gupta of The Indian Express gave the film a rating of 3.5 stars out of 5 and said that, \"There’s much to like about Mukti Bhawan. It brings to us themes which are either ignored or dealt with in our cinema with mawkishness and heavy sentimentality. Bhutiani removes the cloyingness and replaces it with a moving matter-of-fact acceptance of the final destination: this is a director to watch out for.\"\n\nNihit Bhave of The Times of India gave the film a rating of 3.5 stars out of 5 and said that, \"Bhutiani has assembled a stellar cast of theatre greats and indie-film favourites. Behl and Hussain are endearing as the father-son duo, frustrated by and fond of each other simultaneously. The plot is too skimpy and with its languid pacing, the movie eventually seems a bit indulgent. The filmmaker’s exposure to slow, contemplative festival films becomes apparent. But the unassuming characters and the humour make it a delightful watch.\" Sukanya Verma of Rediff gave the film a rating of 4 stars out of 5 and concluded her review by saying that, \"Mukti Bhawan is a work of staggering depth and sublime vision\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1400839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1400839", "title": "How to Make Trouble and Influence People", "text": "How to Make Trouble and Influence People\n\nHow to Make Trouble and Influence People () is a self-published book from 1996 chronicling the history of political pranks and acts of creative subversion in Australia. The book consists of a series of short paragraphs describing incidents, as well as facsimiles of flyers, posters and graffiti. It also includes an interview with Greg Wadley, author of the zine \"Loser\".\n\nThe incidents detailed in \"How to Make Trouble\" date from the early colonial days to recent times, and include both explicitly political and non-political pranks. They include industrial disputes in the 1920s, recent environmental and anti-war protests, as well as acts of inspired vandalism and detournement. As such, this book can be said to be a testament to the larrikin tradition of Australia, and its numerous manifestations throughout history.\n\nTwo sequels were released, \"How to Stop Whining and Start Living\" and \"Revenge of the Troublemaker\". Each of these is attributed to the \"Question Mark Collective\". It is believed that one of the compilers was Iain McIntyre. Copies of these books may possibly be found in anarchist and countercultural bookshops in Australia.\n\nThe book influenced the production of the ABC Radio \"Background Briefing\" program on \"Culture Jamming: How to Make Trouble and Influence People\", broadcast in 1998 and also featured in \"Head Space\" No 4, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's monthly Arts and Culture Magazine.\n\nA collected and expanded version of all three of the original publications, \"How to Make Trouble and Influence People: Pranks, Hoaxes, Graffiti and Mischief-making from Across Australia\" () was collated by Iain McIntyre and Breakdown Press for release in October 2009. The 276-page book includes expanded historical listings, over 300 photographs and 14 interviews with Australian trouble makers.\n\n"}
{"id": "43682382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43682382", "title": "IAJRC Journal", "text": "IAJRC Journal\n\nThe IAJRC Journal is an American quarterly magazine published by the International Association of Jazz Record Collectors. The journal was established in 1968, 4 years after the association was founded in Pittsburgh. The first issue was published during the first quarter of 1968. It covers the history of jazz — which includes the history of jazz criticism and jazz discography.\n\nThe journal reviews about 200 albums and 12 books, annually. One of its sister products is the IAJRC record label, which, as of 2014, has in excess of 77 titles.\n\nThe journal is not formally peer reviewed. Because the organization is bent towards rare and old recordings, coverage by the journal leans towards, but is not limited to, historic jazz. Its contributors have mostly been amateur jazz enthusiasts, but also include amateur and professional discographers, jazz critics, musicologists, musicians, music library archivists, and academics.\n\nIan R. Tiele ( Brookfield, Illinois) has been the journal's editor since 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20083938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20083938", "title": "ITU World Triathlon Series", "text": "ITU World Triathlon Series\n\nThe ITU World Triathlon Series is the International Triathlon Union's annual series of triathlon events used to crown an annual world champion. There are multiple rounds of competitions culminating in a Grand Final race. Athletes compete head-to-head for points in these races that will determine the overall ITU world champion. The elite championship races are held over two distances the standard and the sprint distance. \n\nAs of 2018 a mixed relay series is to be run in tandem, where national teams compete in mixed team relays for prize money and Olympic qualifying points. One of these races will be the ITU Triathlon Mixed Relay World Championships.\n\nThe world champion was formerly crowned in the ITU Triathlon World Championship, a single championship race that was held annually from 1989, the same year as the formation of the International Triathlon Union (ITU), to 2008. Beginning with the 2009 racing season the ITU Triathlon World Championship was changed to a series of events culminating with a grand final race. From 2009 to 2011 the events were known as the World Championship Series (WCS) before being relabeled World Triathlon Series (WTS) in 2012. In 2011 the sprint distance world championship was incorporated into the series giving the same points and prize money as any other event, from this point on sprint distance events would make up a part of the series. In 2013, the series offered a total of $2.25 million in prize money to elite athletes, making it the richest series in triathlon.With the growing popularity of the ITU Triathlon Mixed Relay World Championships and the disciplines addition to the Olympic program it was decided that at three of the events on the 2018 calendar a mixed relay event would be held alongside the men's and women's competition these three events would grant points towards Olympic qualification and constitute the new ITU mixed relay series. \n\nCurrently there are three different distance disciplines:\n\nIn all instances the swim will be a mass start in open-water and the cycling will be draft-legal. There is an allowed leniency of 10% on each segment of courses route for the standard and sprint distances, with more discretion being allowed for the mixed relay. The standard distance was also known as the Olympic distance as it was the only distance competed for in the Olympics, however the ITU has tried to enforce the use of the name standard distance saving the name Olympic on for official Olympic events.\n\n The athlete won his first title as World Champion under the old world championship system.\n\n The athlete won the title of World Champion under the old world championship system.\n\nGF = Grand Final\n\n\nThe world champion was formerly crowned in the ITU Triathlon World Championship, a single championship race that was held annually from 1989, the same year as the formation of the International Triathlon Union (ITU), to 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40772594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40772594", "title": "James Oglethorpe", "text": "James Oglethorpe\n\nJames Edward Oglethorpe (22 December 1696 – 30 June 1785) was a British soldier, Member of Parliament, and philanthropist, as well as the founder of the colony of Georgia. As a social reformer, he hoped to resettle Britain's worthy poor in the New World, initially focusing on those in debtors' prisons.\n\nJames Oglethorpe was born in Surrey, the son of Sir Theophilus Oglethorpe (1650–1702) of Westbrook Place, Godalming, and his wife Eleanor Lady Oglethorpe (1662–1732). He entered Corpus Christi College, Oxford in 1714, but in the same year left to join the army of Prince Eugene of Savoy. Through the recommendation of John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough he became aide-de-camp to the prince, and during the Austro-Turkish War of 1716–18 he served with distinction in the campaign against the Turks.\n\nAfter his return to England, he was elected Member of Parliament for Haslemere in 1722. He became a leading humanitarian, and in 1728 he advocated reform of the terrible conditions experienced by sailors in the British Royal Navy by publishing an anonymous pamphlet, 'The Sailors Advocate.'\n\nIn 1728, three years before conceiving the Georgia colony, Oglethorpe chaired a Parliamentary committee on prison reform. The committee documented horrendous abuses in three debtors' prisons. As a result of the committee's actions, many debtors were released from prison with no means of support. Oglethorpe viewed this as part of the larger problem of urbanisation, which was depleting the countryside of productive people and depositing them in cities, particularly London, where they often became impoverished or resorted to criminal activity. To address this problem, Oglethorpe and a group of associates, many of whom served on the prison committee, petitioned in 1730 to form the Trustees for the Establishment of the Colony of Georgia in America. The petition was finally approved in 1732, and the first ship, led by Oglethorpe, departed for the New World in November.\n\nOglethorpe and the Trustees formulated a contractual, multi-tiered plan for the settlement of Georgia (see the Oglethorpe Plan). The plan envisioned a system of \"agrarian equality\", designed to support and perpetuate an economy based on family farming, and prevent social disintegration associated with unregulated urbanisation. Land ownership was limited to fifty acres, a grant that included a town lot, a garden plot near town, and a forty-five-acre farm. Self-supporting colonists were able to obtain larger grants, but such grants were structured in fifty-acre increments tied to the number of indentured servants supported by the grantee. Servants would receive a land grant of their own upon completing their term of service. No one was permitted to acquire additional land through purchase or inheritance.\n\nWith Oglethorpe on that ship were cotton seeds provided by the Chelsea Medicinal Garden in London. Originally established by the Apothecaries' Company in 1673 for the cultivation and study of medicinal plants (many hospitals are nearby, including the Royal Hospital), the Garden's mission soon expanded to collect and study plants, shrubs, and trees from all over the world. The cotton seeds given to Oglethorpe (and his colony's success in growing cotton) were instrumental in establishing the cotton industry in the U.S. South. As discussed below, the plan for the colony was originally anti-slavery, emphasizing small family-owned farms. But economic pressures eventually led to the lifting of the ban on slavery, as described below—and slavery was indispensable to the rise of large cotton-growing plantations throughout the Deep South.\n\nOglethorpe and the first colonists arrived at South Carolina on the ship \"Anne\" in late 1732, and settled near the present site of Savannah, Georgia on 1 February 1733. He negotiated with the Yamacraw tribe for land (Oglethorpe became great friends with Chief Tomochichi, who was the chief of the Creek Indian village of Yamacraw), and built a series of defensive forts, most notably Fort Frederica, of which substantial remains can still be visited. He then returned to England and arranged to have slavery banned in Georgia after being emotionally moved by an intercepted letter from Ayuba Suleiman Diallo, a slave in Maryland. (For more on the story of Oglethorpe's involvement, see Ayuba Suleiman Diallo's Wikipedia page.) Oglethorpe and his fellow trustees were granted a royal charter for the Province of Georgia between the Savannah and Altamaha rivers on 9 June 1732.\n\nGeorgia was a key contested area, lying in between the English Carolinas and Spanish Florida. It was Oglethorpe's idea that British debtors should be released from prison and sent to Georgia. Although it is often repeated that this would theoretically rid Britain of its so-called undesirable elements, in fact it was Britain's \"worthy poor\" whom Oglethorpe wanted in Georgia. Ultimately, few debtors ended up in Georgia. The colonists included many Scots whose pioneering skills greatly assisted the colony, and many of Georgia's new settlers consisted of poor English tradesmen and artisans and religious refugees from Switzerland, France and Germany, as well as a number of Jewish refugees. There were also 150 Salzburger Protestants who had been expelled by edict from the Archbishopric of Salzburg in present-day Austria (see Religious conflict in Salzburg), and established the settlement of Ebenezer near Savannah. The colony's charter provided for acceptance of all religions except Roman Catholicism. The ban on Roman Catholic settlers was based on the colony's proximity to the hostile settlements in Spanish Florida.\n\nOn 21 February 1734, Oglethorpe established the first Masonic Lodge within the British Colony of Georgia. Now known as Solomon's Lodge No. 1, F. & A. M. it is the \"Oldest Continuously Operating English Constituted Lodge of Freemasons in the Western Hemisphere\". For a period in 1736, Oglethorpe's secretary was Charles Wesley, later well known as a hymnwriter of Methodism.\n\nHe built a home outside the walls of Fort Fredrica (GPS Lat: 31.12.59.779 Long: 81.22.41.7600) that is marked by a small historical marker.\n\nOwing to the colony's primary role as a military buffer between English and Spanish-held territories, the original model for the colonisation of Georgia excluded the use of slave labour, fearing that runaway slaves could internally weaken the colony and assist the enemy at St. Augustine, Florida. But, instead of slaves defecting southwards to the Spanish, runaways from the Carolinas found refuge in Georgia, thus irritating its northern neighbour. The banning of slavery also reduced the work force, and this was felt to be a constraint on Georgia's early economic growth. Many settlers thus began to oppose Oglethorpe, regarding him as a misguided and \"perpetual dictator\". Many new settlers soon set their eyes on South Carolina as a less restrictive and, they hoped, a more profitable place to settle. In 1743, after Oglethorpe had left the colony, the ban on slavery was lifted. Various forces united including the English who always urged it and as a result large numbers of slaves were soon imported.\n\nIn 1734 Oglethorpe visited Britain aboard , taking with him a delegation of Creek Indians, who met George II and his family at Kensington Palace. Oglethorpe was widely acclaimed in London, although his expansionism was not welcomed in all quarters. The Duke of Newcastle, who directed British foreign policy, had tried to restrain James Oglethorpe's efforts in the colony for fear of offending the Spanish, whom Newcastle wished unsuccessfully to court as an ally. Newcastle eventually relented, and became a supporter of the colony admitting \"it will now be pretty difficult to give up Georgia\". The colony's existence was one of several disputes which worsened Anglo-Spanish relations in the late 1730s.\n\nIn early 1740, during the War of Jenkins' Ear, fought between British Georgia and Spanish Florida as part of a larger conflict, the War of Austrian Succession, Oglethorpe was responsible for a number of successful raids on Spanish forts, as well as the unsuccessful Siege of St. Augustine in 1740. Oglethorpe showed poor military leadership but he received little help from South Carolina or from his Indian allies, from the Ordnance Board, or from the Royal Navy, despite his best efforts to gain their support.\n\nAmong Oglethorpe's most valuable Indian allies in this siege were the Creeks, influenced by Mary Musgrove. Her Indian name was Coosaponakeesa (lovely fawn), and she was married to John Musgrove, a trader. Following the failed attempt to strike against Florida, Oglethorpe commanded British forces during the Spanish invasion of Georgia, defeating them at the Battle of Bloody Marsh and forcing them to withdraw.\n\nAfter his exploits in Georgia, Oglethorpe returned to London in 1743 and rose steadily through the ranks of the British Army. He would never return to Georgia. There is some evidence that he returned to Europe under a pseudonym, with the assistance of Field Marshal Keith.\n\nOn the death of his brother Theophilus Oglethorpe, Jr. in about 1737, he inherited the title of Baron Oglethorpe of Oglethorpe in the Jacobite peerage.\n\nThese were the days of the \"Young Pretender\" and incursions by the Jacobite troops from Scotland into the North of England. Oglethorpe had been busy forming a unit of Rangers which were to be shipped out to defend Georgia from future Spanish attacks. He immediately put his troops at the disposal of the government forces, under the command of the Duke of Cumberland, who were attempting to suppress the rebellion. Oglethorpe and his troops joined with Cumberland at Preston and attempted to harry the retreating Jacobite army as they tried to escape back to Scotland. He fought a skirmish at Shap Fell in Westmorland, but he was forced to break off the engagement by the intense weather and take shelter for the night. Overnight the Jacobites managed to withdraw and escape over the fell. Because of this Oglethorpe was court-martialled on the accusation of not pursuing the invaders more aggressively. He was acquitted, attained the rank of General, but never again given a command.\n\nAlthough a strong supporter of the British war effort in the Seven Years War, Oglethorpe took no active role in the conflict.\n\nIn 1785, Oglethorpe visited John Adams (the first US minister plenipotentiary to the Court of St. James's, i.e., the first US ambassador to Britain) shortly after the latter arrived in London. The meeting included an expression by Oglethorpe of his sadness at the ill-will that had existed between the countries.\n\nOglethorpe died at Cranham in 1785, and was buried at the centre of All Saints' parish church which immediately adjoins Cranham Hall (rebuilt c. 1790, but sketched prior by John Pridden in 1789). Elizabeth survived him a few years and was subsequently buried at his side. The site was lost until re-discovered by Thornwell Jacobs in 1922.\n\nOglethorpe County and Oglethorpe University in Atlanta, as well as the town of Oglethorpe, Georgia are all named in his honour. Also, The James Oglethorpe Primary School in Cranham is named after him.\n\nIn 1986 the Corps of Cadets at the University of North Georgia in Dahlonega, Georgia officially adopted the name of the unit as the \"Boar's Head Brigade\". The name came from the Boar's Head on the Department Crest approved by the U.S. Army Adjutant General on August 11, 1937. The Boar's Head was a part of the family crest of James Oglethorpe, and is a symbol of fighting spirit and hospitality so deeply a part of Georgia's heritage and the spirit of the Corps of Cadets at the University of North Georgia.\n\nAll Saints' was rebuilt c.1871. However, the new church stands on the same foundations as the old one, and Oglethorpe's poetic marble memorial is on the south wall of the chancel, as before. In the 1930s, the president of Oglethorpe University Thornwell Jacobs excavated the Oglethorpe family vault in the centre of the chancel at All Saints', although permission to translate the General's relics to a purpose-built shrine at Oglethorpe University (Atlanta) had been refused by the Archdeacon.\n\nThere is a bronze statue in Chippewa Square, Savannah, Georgia, created by sculptor Daniel Chester French and unveiled in 1910. Oglethorpe faces south, toward Georgia's one-time enemy in Spanish Florida, and his sword is drawn.\n\nOglethorpian anniversaries have since led to the donation of the altar rail at All Saints' by a ladies charity in Georgia. In 1996, then Georgia Governor Zell Miller attended Oglethorpe tercentenary festivities in Godalming and at Corpus Christi College, Oxford.\n\nCorpus Christi College holds two portraits of Oglethorpe, a drawing of the general as an old man, which hangs in the Senior Common Room, and a portrait in oils, which hangs in the Breakfast Room.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49607", "title": "Jargon", "text": "Jargon\n\nJargon is a type of language that is used in a particular context and may not be well understood outside that context. The context is usually a particular occupation (that is, a certain trade, profession, or academic field), but any in group can have jargon. The main trait that distinguishes jargon from the rest of a language is special vocabulary—including some words specific to it, and often different senses or meanings of words, that out groups would tend to take in another sense—therefore misunderstanding that communication attempt. Jargon is thus \"the technical terminology or characteristic idiom of a special activity or group\". Most jargon is technical terminology, involving terms of art or industry terms, with particular meaning within a specific industry. A main driving force in the creation of technical jargon is precision and efficiency of communication when a discussion must easily range from general themes to specific, finely differentiated details without circumlocution. A side-effect of this is a higher threshold for comprehensibility, which is usually accepted as a trade-off but is sometimes even used as a means of social exclusion (reinforcing ingroup-outgroup barriers) or social aspiration (when intended as a way of showing off).\n\nThe philosopher Étienne Bonnot de Condillac observed in 1782 that \"every science requires a special language because every science has its own ideas\". As a rationalist member of the Enlightenment, he continued: \"It seems that one ought to begin by composing this language, but people begin by speaking and writing, and the language remains to be composed.\"\n\nVarious kinds of language peculiar to ingroups can be named across a semantic field. Slang can be either culture-wide or known only within a certain group or subculture. Argot is slang or jargon purposely used to obscure meaning to outsiders. Conversely, a lingua franca is used for the opposite effect, helping communicators to overcome unintelligibility, as are pidgins and creole languages. For example, the Chinook Jargon was a pidgin. Although technical jargon's primary purpose is to aid technical communication, not to exclude outsiders by serving as an argot, it can have both effects at once and can provide a technical ingroup with shibboleths. For example, medieval guilds could use this as one means of informal protectionism. On the other hand, jargon that once was obscure outside a small ingroup can become generally known over time. For example, the terms \"bit, byte,\" and \"hexadecimal\" (which are terms from computing jargon) are now recognized by many people outside computer science.\n\nThe French word is believed to have been derived from the Latin word , meaning \"to chatter\", which was used to describe speech that the listener did not understand. Middle English also has the verb meaning \"to chatter\", which comes from the French word. The word may also come from Old French meaning \"chatter of birds\".\n\n\"An industry term... is a type of technical terminology that has a particular meaning in a specific industry. It implies that a word or phrase is a typical one in a particular industry and people working in the respective industry or business will be familiar with and use the term.\"\n\nPrecise technical terms and their definitions are formally recognised, documented, and taught by educators in the field. Other terms are more colloquial, coined and used by practitioners in the field, and are similar to slang. The boundaries between formal and slang jargon, as in general English, are quite fluid. This is especially true in the rapidly developing world of computers and networking. For instance, the term \"firewall\" (in the sense of a device used to filter network traffic) was at first technical slang. As these devices became more widespread and the term became widely understood, the word was adopted as formal terminology.\n\nTechnical terminology evolves due to the need for experts in a field to communicate with precision and brevity, but often has the effect of excluding those who are unfamiliar with the particular specialized language of the group. This can cause difficulties as, for example, when a patient is unable to follow the discussions of medical practitioners, and thus cannot understand his own condition and treatment. Differences in jargon also cause difficulties where professionals in related fields use different terms for the same phenomena.\n\nWith the rise of the self-advocacy movement within the disability movement, \"jargonised\" language has been much objected to by advocates and self-advocates. Jargon is largely present in every day language, in newspapers, government documents, and official forms. Several advocacy organisations work on influencing public agents to offer accessible information in different formats. One accessible format that offers an alternative to jargonised language is Easy Read, which consists of a combination of plain English and images. An alternative is a jargon buster, incorporated to certain technical documents. There is a balance to be struck, as excessive removal of technical terminology from a document leads to an equally undesirable outcome—dumbing down.\n\nMany examples of jargon exist because of its use among specialists and subcultures alike. In the professional world, those who are in the business of filmmaking may use words like \"vorkapich\" to refer to a montage when talking to colleagues. In Rhetoric, rhetoricians use words like \"arete\" to refer to a person of power's character when speaking with one another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34824173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34824173", "title": "Kailashnath Mahadev Statue", "text": "Kailashnath Mahadev Statue\n\nKailashnath Mahadev Statue () is the world's tallest Shiva statue.\nIt is situated in Sanga, on the border of the Bhaktapur and Kavrepalanchwok districts in Nepal, about 20 km from Kathmandu.\n\nThe statue is 143 feet (43.5 m) in height, and was made using copper, zinc, concrete, and steel. According to the List of statues by height, Kailashnath Mahadev is the world's fortieth-tallest statue, four places after the Statue of Liberty.\n\nDesigned to resemble images of the Hindu god, Lord Shiva, and seen as a marvel of Nepalese engineering, the statue's construction began in 2003 and was completed in 2010. It was constructed mainly by Kamal Jain and \"Hilltake\", a company Jain established in Nepal in 1992 which deals with products such as water tanks. Nepalese engineers were involved in the construction along with one experienced Indian engineer specializing in the design and construction of large structures.\n\nThe statue's foundation is about 100 feet deep, which was necessary to anchor the structure into the ridge. Due to the threat of potential landslides, structures were also built for ground stabilization.\n\nAbout 5,000 visitors come to the statue on a weekday, and a significantly larger number visit on weekends, national holidays, and Hindu festivals.\n\nDue to the number of visitors the statue has contributed to the religious tourism in Nepal, both locally and internationally, raised the economic activity of the local community, and has made an impact in the development of nearby villages.\n"}
{"id": "18032232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18032232", "title": "Kia kaha", "text": "Kia kaha\n\nKia kaha is a Māori phrase used by the people of New Zealand as an affirmation, meaning \"stay strong\". The phrase has significant meaning for Māori: popularised through its usage by the 28th Māori Battalion during World War II, it is found in titles of books and songs, as well as a motto.\n\nLinguistically, kia kaha consists of the desiderative verbal particle \"kia\", used here as 'an encouragement to achieve the state named', that is, to achieve \"kaha\" or strength. \"Kaha\" derives from Proto-Polynesian \"*kafa\", meaning \"strong\" or \"great\"; \"*kafa\" is also the Proto-Polynesian term for sennit rope, a strong rope made from coconut fibres and used for lashing canoes, weapons, and buildings together.\n\nThe phrase is used in several different contexts. It is a term of comfort or solace (an equivalent of \"be strong - my thoughts are with you\"), or (less often) it can serve a similar function to 'kia ora' - an interjection during a speech to indicate support or approval (similar to \"hear! hear!\"). It is sometimes seen used as a valediction at the bottom of messages.\n\nThe phrase \"Kia kaha\" is prominently used in New Zealand's most famous military song, the Marching Song of the 28th Māori Battalion. The phrase has been used for the title of a song by Split Enz and a book, \"Kia Kaha: New Zealand in the Second World War\" by historian John Crawford. Other songs to use Kia kaha as part of their titles include \"Kia Kaha Nga Iwi\" (Be strong, o tribes), by Ngoi Pewhairangi.\n\nKia kaha has been used as the name of various products, most notably a clothing manufacturer. It is also the official name of the New Zealand Police's school anti-bullying campaign.\n\nIt was incorporated in the RNZAF'S 75 Squadron motto, \"Ake ake kia kaha\", where 'ake ake' means '(for)ever (for)ever' and 'kia kaha' means 'be strong'. \"Ake! Ake! Kia Kaha E!\" was the marching song of the New Zealand Army's 28th (Māori) Battalion.\n\nNumerous schools use Kia kaha as, or as part of, their mottoes, including Te Aute College, Hawke's Bay (\"Whakatangata kia kaha\"); Tikipunga High School, Whangarei (\"Kia kaha, kia maia, kia manawanui\"); Golden Bay High School, Takaka (\"Ake ake kia kaha\"); Rotorua Intermediate School, Rotorua (\"Kia kaha, kia maia\"); and Rosehill Intermediate School, Papakura (\"Whaia kia kaha\") and Te Awamutu Te Awamutu College, Kingwood Park High school (Kia Kaha) and Richmond Primary School (Kia Kaha).\n\nQueen Alexandra's Mounted Rifles (QAMR) an armored regiment based at Waiouru uses Ake Ake Kia Kaha as their motto. \n\nKia kaha is also used in the film \"Forever Strong\", and is the motto of the Highland High School rugby team which features in the film.\n\nThe trainers of Beachbody's Les Mills Pump home workout program also use this phrase regularly throughout the program.\n\nWhen the 6.3 magnitude earthquake hit the New Zealand city of Christchurch on 22 February 2011, following the 4 September 2010 earthquake, \"Kia Kaha\" became the iconic phrase used by family and friends supporting the city in their time of need. The \"New Zealand Herald\" reported the use of the phrase by Prince William at a memorial service on 18 March 2011 \"drew applause and tears from tens of thousands of mourners\".\n\nA video made by New Zealanders living in New York included the phrase in a message to their loved ones in Christchurch.\n"}
{"id": "7085214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7085214", "title": "Kogi people", "text": "Kogi people\n\nThe Kogi ( ) or Cogui or Kágaba, meaning \"jaguar\" in the Kogi language, are an indigenous ethnic group that lives in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in Colombia. Their civilization has continued since the Pre-Columbian era.\n\nThe Kogi language belongs to the Chibchan family.\n\nThe Kogi are descendants of the Tairona culture, which flourished before the times of the Spanish conquest. The Tairona were an advanced civilization which built many stone structures and pathways in the jungles. They made many gold objects which they would hang from trees and around their necks. They lived not much differently from modern day Kogi. Before the Spanish conquistadors arrived, the Tairona were forced to move into the highlands when the Caribs invaded around 1000 CE. The decision to flee to the mountains proved beneficial and strategic by the time the Spanish entered modern-day Colombia in the 15th century. In 1498, the Spanish arrived in Northern Colombia where they began to enslave indigenous groups. Threatened by dogs and soldiers alike, the Tairona remained in isolation. Regardless, many priests were hanged, women were abducted and raped, and children were forced to accept Spanish education. Later, missionaries came and also began to influence their way of life, building chapels and churches amidst their villages to train and convert the locals. In the years since, the Kogi have remained in their home in the mountains, which allows them to escape the worst effects of colonization and aids them in preserving their traditional way of life \n\nThe Kogi base their lifestyles on their belief in \"Aluna\" or \"The Great Mother,\" their creator figure, who they believe is the force behind nature. The Kogi understand the Earth to be a living being, and see humanity as its \"children.\" They say that our actions of exploitation, devastation, and plundering for resources is weakening \"The Great Mother\" and leading to our destruction.\n\nLike many other indigenous tribes, the Kogi people honor a holy mountain which they call \"Gonawindua,\" otherwise known as Pico Cristóbal Colón. They believe that this mountain is \"The Heart of the World\" and they are the \"Elder Brothers\" who care for it. They also say that the outside civilization is the \"Younger Brothers\" who were sent away from The Heart of the World long ago.\n\nFrom birth the Kogi attune their priests, called \"Mamos\" (which means sun in Kogi), for guidance, healing, and leadership. The Mamos are not to be confused with shamans or curers but to be regarded as tribal priests who hold highly respected roles in Kogi society. Mamos undergo strict training to assume this role. Selected male children are taken from birth and put in a dark cave for the first nine years of their lives to begin this training. In the cave, elder Mamos and the child's mother care for, feed, train, and teach the child to attune to \"Aluna\" before the boy enters the outside world. Through deep concentration, symbolic offerings, and divination, the Mamos believe they support the balance of harmony and creativity in the world. It is also in this realm that the essence of agriculture is nurtured: seeds are blessed in Aluna before being planted, to ensure they grow successfully; marriage is blessed to ensure fertility; and ceremonies are offered to the different spirits of the natural world before performing tasks such as harvest and building of new huts.\n\nThe Kogi Mamos have remained isolated from the rest of the world since the Spanish Conquistadors came to plunder South America for gold. In order to preserve their traditional way of life, they rarely interact with the modern world or with outside civilization. Outsiders are not allowed inside their ancestral lands. The Kogi Mamos say that the balance of the earth's ecology has been suffering due to the modern-day devastation of resources by Younger Brother. The Kogi Mamos in turn believe that their work as Elder Brother is instrumental in helping to prolong and protect life on earth. In a desperate attempt to prevent further ecological catastrophe and destruction, the Kogi Mamos broke their silence and allowed a small BBC film crew into their isolated mountaintop civilization to hear their message and warning to Younger Brother. The subsequent messages and warnings were voiced in the documentary . After the documentary was filmed, the Kogi Mamos returned to their work in isolation and asked outsiders to not come to their land.\n\nThe Kogi soon realized that their message and warning had not been heeded by Younger Brother, and instead, as they had predicted, many catastrophes occurred and the natural world continued to be devastated at an even more rapid pace. In turn they contacted the same filmmaker twenty years later to give one final message. This became Aluna, a documentary made by the Kogi Mamos themselves in which they give a second warning and say that they have chosen to share their secret sciences with Younger Brother so that Younger Brother can help change the world for the better.\n\nTraditional Kogi religion is closely related to the structure of the cosmic universe that exists in dualistic expressions. On a cosmic level, the sun separates the universe into two hemispheres: the east/west and consequently a right/left. The Kogi use this dualistic notion to elaborate on a number of earthly divides: man/woman, male/female, heat/cold, light/dark, and right/left. They believe each of these groupings are complementary opposites. Within each pair, one cannot survive without the other. In the case of good(right)/evil(left), the Kogi believe committing a sin once in a while serves as a justification for the existence of good. These natural opposites are a way to keep the society balanced or “in agreement” (yuluka).\n\nThe two hemispheres are then divided into four segments: North/South/East/West. Within these four points of reference, the Kogi have associated the orientation of their religious framework into South/East as good/light and North/West as evil/dark. This cosmic structure has influenced four entrances to each village, four principal clans, and has divided the Sierra Nevada into four sections. Following this concept, the Kogi have structured the ceremonial houses and sacred offering sites into four quadrants. In the ceremonial house, a line is drawn down the middle of a circle, which divides the men into a left side where men “know more”, and a complementary right side of men who “know less.”\n\nIn a system of four quadrants, the four lines inevitably meet in the center creating a fifth dimension to the cosmic universe. The central point holds great significance to the Kogi people. It represents the center of the universe, the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta. During the ceremony, this is the point where the mama buries the four sacred offerings and “speaks with god.” In the center of the circle, he places a tiny stool upon the spot where he receives and answers questions of the cosmic universe.\n\nIn Kogi cosmology, they have added three dimensions to the standard N/S/E/W: Zenith, Nadir and the Center. This fixed system of points resembles an egg and is formulated into nine stages/layers of development. Mother Goddess, the creator of the universe and mankind, created the cosmic egg. The horizontal layers of the egg are divided into two sections of 4 four worlds with mankind (the 5th layer) residing in the center. The cosmic egg also represents the uterus of Mother Goddess and the Sierra Nevada. Because of this, the Kogi have built the structure of the ceremonial house as a replica of the cosmos.\n\nThe mamos participate in various rituals to celebrate the individual's life cycle from birth to death. These ceremonies include offerings, dances, and other ritual affairs. Although every life cycle is celebrated, emphasis on burial customs has been of much importance to the Kogi people. In this tribe, death is not viewed as a tragic event but as a “fulfillment of life.” The burial process usually lasts approximately two hours and is performed without prayers and chants. To an outside viewer, the ritual might seem simple without depth for such a spiritual tribe. What the viewer does not realize is that the funerary customs have philosophic concepts and deeper underlying meanings beyond the dimension of the western world.\n\nBurial rites are an act of “cosmification”. When a person dies, the mamas return him/her back to the uterus of Mother Goddess.\n\nThe list below dictates 8 components of the burial ritual analyzed by anthropologist Gerardo Reichel-Dolmatoff.\n\nThe Kogi have many characteristics that define their culture. For example, all Kogi men receive a \"poporo\" when they come of age. The \"poporo\" is a small, hollow gourd that is filled with \"lima,\" a type of powder that is made by heating and crushing shells to produce lime. The men also continuously chew coca leaves, a tradition followed by many indigenous tribes to connect them to the natural world. As they chew the coca leaves, they suck on the lime powder in their poporos, which they extract with a stick, and rub the mixture on the gourd with the stick to form a hardened layer or crust. The size of this layer depends on the maturity and the age of the Kogi man.\n\nKogi men and women all carry traditional bags across their shoulders. Only women are allowed to weave the bags. Many of the things carried inside a bag are secret and known only to the owner. Bags carried by Mamas contain sacred traditional objects. When two Kogi men meet, they use the customary greeting, which is to exchange handfuls of coca.\n\nKogi men and women alike have simple modes of dress. The women pick, card, and spin wool and cotton while men do the weaving of the cloth. Clothing for men consists of a tunic and simple pants tied with a string at the waist. Clothing for women consists of a single length of cloth wrapped around their bodies as a dress. The Kogi all wear only pure white clothing. They say that white represents the Great Mother and therefore the purity of nature.\n\nThe Kogi live in a series of villages containing circular huts made of stone, mud, and palm leaves. Men live in a separate hut from the women and children. Each village contains a large hut called a \"nuhue\" or temple where only men are allowed. In the \"nuhue\" many things are discussed and decisions are made. Divination and concentration also occur in these temples. Women are not allowed because the Kogi believe that women are more connected to the Great Mother and have no need of entering the temple. There are also women priests in the villages.\n\nAll consultations are done with Mamos, and many of the decisions are based on their wisdom and knowledge. Many Kogi marriages are arranged by Mamos to ensure the most fruitful communities. Marriages are not forced, and the buying or selling of women is not permitted, although women as young as 14 can be married and have children. The Kogi do not allow the mistreatment of women, and it is not uncommon to find marriages that were not arranged, but the Kogi also disapprove of breaking arranged marriages.\n\nFields, houses, and livestock are passed from mother to daughter as well as from father to son, which is bilateral inheritance of these items. There is also the normal parallel descent of personal items, including ritual objects which are male property and descend patrilineally. But certain rights, names or associations descend matrilineally.\n\nCommon crops of trade are sugar and coffee. Much of the sugar is turned into \"panela,\" a type of Colombian hardened brown sugar. The women do most of the planting of the vegetables, but farming is a responsibility of the whole family.\n\nThe Kogi practice agriculture using slash-and-burn farming methods; each family tends farms at varying altitudes of the Sierra, producing different crops to satisfy the range of their needs. They also raise cattle on the highlands.\n\n\n\nhttps://www.survivalinternational.org/tribes/sierraindians\n"}
{"id": "21168623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21168623", "title": "Layering (linguistics)", "text": "Layering (linguistics)\n\nLayering in linguistics refers to one of the five principles by which grammaticalisation can be detected while it is taking place. The other four are: divergence, specialisation, persistence, and de-categorialisation.\n\nLayering refers to the phenomenon that a language can have and develop multiple expressions for the same function, that language, in the \"lexical\" as well as in the \"grammatical\" domain, tolerates and permanently creates multiple synonymy. \"Within a broad functional domain, new layers are continually emerging. As this happens, the older layers are not necessarily discarded, but may remain to coexist with and interact with the newer layers.\"\n\nDuring the process of grammaticalisation, new layers are added to older ones whereby the functional domain is broadened, i.e. several items may fulfil the same linguistic function.\nAn example from English: 'I am going to study' / 'I will study' / 'I shall study'.\n\n"}
{"id": "839128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=839128", "title": "Marshal Law (comics)", "text": "Marshal Law (comics)\n\nMarshal Law is an English-language superhero comic book series created by Pat Mills and Kevin O'Neill.\n\nMarshal Law was first published by Epic Comics in 1987. The series is a satire on the superhero genre as well as a deconstruction of the superheroes of the Golden Age and Silver Age.\n\nThe series is characterized by its extreme graphic violence and nudity, and Mills' skewering of superhero conventions and US government policy and society.\n\nEpic Comics launched \"Marshal Law\" in October 1987 as a six-issue limited series. It was followed by the \"Marshal Law Takes Manhattan\" one-shot, in which most of Marvel Comics' major characters were parodied.\n\nIn 1991, Mills and O'Neill took the character to the fledgling Apocalypse Comics for another one-shot. The character then starred in the lead feature of \"Toxic!\", a weekly comic started in 1991.\"Toxic!\" proved to be short-lived and Apocalypse Comics went bankrupt in 1992. Mills and O'Neill then took Marshal Law to Dark Horse Comics, where the story in \"Toxic!\" was completed in late 1992. That year also saw the character return to Epic Comics for a two-issue series pitting the Marshal against Clive Barker's Pinhead character.\n\nOver the next few years, Marshal Law appeared in various Intercompany crossovers with other characters, including the Savage Dragon and the Mask. In 2000, Mills and O'Neill took the character to the Cool Beans World website. The stories here were illustrated novellas, rather than actual comic strips, titled \"The Day Of The Dead\" (which was published in a paperback edition) and \"Cloak Of Evil\". The website closed in 2002.\n\nThe title character, Marshal Law, is \"the\" government-sanctioned \"super hero hunter\" (aka law enforcement officer, or \"cape killer\") with superpowers in the city of San Futuro, the near-future metropolis built from the ruins of San Francisco following a massive earthquake. Law's job is to take down other superheroes who have gone rogue, which he does with maximum force and great pleasure. Aided by the wheelchair-using \"Danny\" and his physically imposing (but extremely polite) partner \"Kiloton\", the Marshal operates from a secret police precinct hidden below the city, dispensing just enough brutal justice to keep the city's many super-powered gangs in a balanced détente while safeguarding the ordinary citizenry.\n\nMarshal Law's secret identity is Joe Gilmore, a former supersoldier consumed with self-hatred about being a superhero. In this world, superheroes are commonplace thanks to genetic engineering, much of the United States' armed forces having undergone the process. However, while their bodies may become super-powered, their minds remain exactly as they were, and in many cases the inability to feel pain causes the subjects to compensate by inflicting pain on others. Psychosis of varying degrees is also a common side-effect, and some subjects develop wildly uncontrollable superpowers.\n\nThe plot of the original six-issue series revolved around the Marshal's attempts to unmask the Sleepman, a serial killer and rapist who preys on women dressed as Celeste, the current girlfriend of the beloved superhero, Public Spirit. Marshal Law's loathing of the Public Spirit as standing for everything that is fraudulent and hypocritical about superheroes leads him to suspect the Spirit himself of being responsible for the Sleepman's crimes; without any proof, though, the guilty party goes unpunished until a surprising revelation from a former superheroine reveals that the Marshal's suspicions may not be too far from the truth.\n\nWhile in the first series, the Marshal's primary nemeses are the Public Spirit and the Sleepman; he later faces off against Private Eye and The Persecutor. A recurring secondary adversary (initially treated seriously, though later becoming comic relief) is Suicida, a psychopathic ex-soldier who leads the murderous Gangreen street gang.\n\nThe plot of \"Secret Tribunal\" revolved around an orbiting incubation center that created and mentally programmed superheroes. It was under attack by a monster called The Incubus, which was defeated by Growing Boy.\n\n\nOriginal comic appearances:\n\n\nA series of illustrated novellas were previously released on the now defunct Cool Beans World website. One of them was published in book form:\n\n\nThe comics have been collected into a number of trade paperbacks:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39558336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39558336", "title": "Narcoculture in Mexico", "text": "Narcoculture in Mexico\n\nNarcoculture in Mexico is a subculture that has grown as a result of the strong presence of the various drug cartels throughout Mexico. \nIn the same way that other subcultures around the world that are related to crime and drug use (for example the Scottish neds and European hooligans, or the American street-gangstas and outlaw bikers), Mexican narco culture has developed its own form of dress, music, literature, film, religious beliefs and practices and language (slang) that has helped it become a part of the mainstream fashion in some areas of the country, mainly among lower-class, uneducated youth. Narco culture is dynamic in that there are various regional differences within Mexico and among those who participate in it.\n\nThe origins of narco culture, like drug trafficking, had humble beginnings in Mexico. Narco culture emerged from the practice of drug trafficking in the highlands of Badiraguato, Sinaloa. It is in the sierra or countryside where an identity of drug trafficking was created and then consolidated once it crossed into the urban sphere. Narcoculture has been defined as a code of conduct and lifestyle for those that participate in the \"narco world.\"\n\nMany scholars, like Luis Astorga and Jorge Alan Sanchez Godoy explain that there is no evidence that would suggest that cannabis or opium were consumed in Mexico prior to the arrival of the Spanish and the Chinese . Although indigenous communities in Mexico consumed hallucinogenic mushrooms and Peyote in their religious practices it was not until the arrival of the Spanish that cannabis was introduced to Mexico.\nDrug trafficking in Mexico has been considered by Luis Astorga, to have originated with the Chinese immigration to Sinaloa. It is said that the Chinese immigrants brought poppy seeds with them when they arrived in Mexico to work in the railroads and mines.\nSanchez Godoy explains that after cannabis was brought to Mexico, it was used for medical purposes and poppy plants were used for decoration and served as inspiration for several Mexican corridos or ballads.\n\nThe US effectively banned all Psychoactive drugs when the federal government passed in 1914 the Harrison Act, prohibiting all non-medicinal use of opium, morphine, and cocaine. In 1919 The National Prohibition Act made alcoholic beverages illegal and The Marijuana Tax Act of 1937 outlawed marijuana.\n\nMexico’s proximity to the US made it an easy source and American bootleggers and traffickers rushed to obtain illicit narcotics and alcohol. Exports of Mexican opium, heroin, and marijuana for US consumption steadily increased as a result of Prohibition.\n\nThe black market grew quickly, with millions of Americans requiring a huge supply of alcohol, heroin, marijuana and cocaine. The initial shortage caused a boost in drug prices, and these new super-profits attracted black market suppliers to fill the vacuum.\n\nDuring the early 1920s, the Chinese in Sinaloa were victims of segregation, hate crimes, and forceful deportation. In 1927, to cooperate with its northern neighbour Mexican President Plutarco Elias Calles, by federal mandate, ordered the expulsion of the Chinese poppy producers.\n\nOnce the Chinese were expelled from Sinaloa, the production of narcotics was then controlled by the rural Mexican farmers. The narcotics production in Mexico was still small, but the demand for morphine in the United States created by the disruption in its morphine supply from Europe during the World Wars led to the temporary legalization of narcotics in Mexico.\n\nScholars like Sanchez Godoy and Luis Astorga state that narcotics were temporarily legalized in Sinaloa in order to supply the United States' demand during the world war. \nThe period when the production of narcotics was temporarily legalized, shaped and created the drug trafficking identity in the region. This is when narcoculture first begins to appear. It is also the period when Mexico entered the large-scale production of narcotics.\n\nThe 1950s in Mexico were marked by the term \"narcotráfico\" (narco traffic) that began to appear in the media. During the 1940s through 1970s drug trafficking in Mexico was considered to be a \"small family business\" with a relatively simple organization and division of labor. It is not until after the 1970s with the growth of demand from the United States and alliances with Colombian drug traffickers that cartels in Mexico were formed to control the production and distribution of narcotics. Mexico then became a producer and distributor.\n\nIn previous decades, Mexico served as the route of entrance for the cocaine arriving to the United States from Colombia. With Mexico supplying the United States with heroin and morphine during World War II, it became a producer. The alliance between Mexican cartels and Colombian cartels meant that Mexico was now a distributor and producer. As drug trafficking expanded in Mexico, so did narcoculture. Narcoculture expanded into the urban sector of society and began the process of legitimization and moved away from a subculture into a part of the dominant culture.\n\nThe term \"narcoculture\" was first coined in the 1970s. Narcoculture defines the way of life and ideas of drug traffickers. Its existence depends on the acceptance of drug traffickers and drug trafficking, becoming a transnational network of production, transportation, and commercialization of illegal drugs.\n\nDrug trafficking has political, economic, ideological, and cultural implications. Drug traffickers interact with the rest of society and as this daily interaction progresses, some of the drug traffickers' mannerisms are adopted by society and this leads to cultural change and legitimization. The drug traffickers' way of life or narcoculture becomes legitimate in the society. Some aspects are adopted by those outside of drug trafficking, and over time people forget that what they have adopted is narcoculture. Narcoculture begins a process of legitimization when it begins to include the popular classes in the urban cities.\n\nNarcoculture in Sinaloa shares many characteristics with Mediterranean culture and mafias in that it is said that the Sinaloa narcoculture is based on honor, bravery, family loyalty, protection, vengeance, generosity, hospitality, nobility, and prestige much like the Mediterranean mafias. Drug traffickers use \"claves\" (codes) to maintain a level of secrecy. Some of these codes, however, have been revealed in \"narcocorridos\" (Mexican ballads about drug trafficking) and are then used by people who listen to this music, even if they are not drug traffickers. This is when narcoculture becomes a part of the mainstream discourse.\n\nPrior to the 1970s, narcoculture and drug trafficking in Sinaloa were almost exclusively rural. The stigma that was placed on narcotics early on meant that people in the cities were reluctant to accept it as a legitimate activity. In the countryside of Sinaloa, people were starving and drug trafficking seemed like the only viable solution. The rural population saw themselves a part of the marginalized society with no real access to education or other methods of social upward mobility. They felt ignored by the government and by society. Drug trafficking then became a source of income and an outlet to rebel against the government that had forgotten them in the countryside.\n\nNarcoculture is a type of crime-related subculture that emerges in places where traffickers or other mafias have great power, and in consequence great cultural influence.\nBecause of that influence their lives and exploits are often glamorised by the mass media and they are looked up to as role models by some young people.\n\nSubcultures similar to Mexican narco culture emerged in the United States during Prohibition, and in Colombia and Italy in the 1990s. These subcultures were characterized by extravagance, ostentation, hedonism, rural roots, honor, prestige, consumerism, power, utilitarianism, religiosity, and violence.\n\nThose who take part in narcoculture are not necessarily drug traffickers or part of a criminal organization. Indeed, many of the participants in narcoculture are young people who come from marginalized sectors of society. They feel the need to look and act like drug traffickers in order to feel that they are respected or have some sort of power. The admiration that youth have for narcos is similar to the way other kids look up to rock stars or sports legends. In some cases, the admiration that they feel for the drug traffickers, who they see as heroes, does lead them to get involved in drug trafficking. But in most cases they merely consume the narco culture and imagine that they are part of the narco world, or becoming \"narco-poseurs\".\n\nNarcoculture has created a fantasy where people believe that drug trafficking is the only way to escape poverty. This fantasy is supported primarily through music (\"narcocorridos\") and visual media, including television and film. \nSome believe that narcoculture originated in the highlands of Sinaloa, where many of the famous drug lords were born, such as the Beltran Leyva brothers, Ernesto Fonseca Carrillo \"Don Neto\", Rafael Caro Quintero, and Juan Jose Esparragoza Moreno \"El Azul\".\nNarcoculture is rooted in the northern rural areas of Mexico and although it is constantly changing, it continues to foster and strengthen its rural roots over time.\n\nNarcoculture glorifies the individual and his achievements, wealth, and masculinity. Narcos live luxurious lifestyles and display their wealth by wearing expensive clothing. There are regional differences in the styles of dress; for example the northern cities closest to the border are influenced by American styles of dress and brands. The clothing is gender-conscious, where men and women wear distinct fashion items pertaining to their gender. In most Mexican cities, there are men wearing \"piteado\" belts, cowboy boots made of exotic animal skin, silk shirts and cowboy hats or baseball caps; thus, some narcos have cast aside the cowboy or Northern style to wear expensive designer clothes.\n\nCertain clothing items, such as Ralph Lauren Polo shirts or Ed Hardy style clothing, were worn by several infamous drug traffickers at the moment of their capture, becoming highly fashionable items among the masses, prompting the creation of imitation styles sold on the black market.\n\nStyles vary in many border towns, but it is very common to see drug traffickers wearing luxury brand labels such as Burberry or Gucci hats, shirts, belts and shoes. Women associated with drug cartels often dress very ostentatiously and wear lots of jewelry, and it is common to see them wear such brands as Bebe, Guess, Burberry, Gucci and Coach.\n\nBesides wearing expensive brands, the drug lords run their own bars, which are visited mostly by men. The narco parties are get-togethers and parties where narcos drink and socialize. Although many businesses have closed down because of the tremendous amount of violence sweeping the nation, the narcobars, restaurants, and nightclubs have remained open, and have thrived.\n\nThe projection of a glamorous image of the drug cartels by the mass media in Mexico has served to thwart the federal government's efforts of legitimizing the war against drugs and organized crime.\n\nIn Sinaloa, narcoculture enjoys a place of privilege. In other parts of Mexico the acceptance of narcoculture has been a slow process. Narco \"corridos\", however, have helped narcoculture become more acceptable in places where interactions with drug traffickers do not take place on a daily basis.\n\nThe Mexican \"corrido\", a song narrating stories real or imagined about historical characters, became popular during the Mexican Revolution of 1910. The \"corrido\" became popular because it narrated news and events to a largely illiterate population. The \"corrido\" also created popular heroes and celebrated their lives and adventures. Pancho Villa, revolutionary leader, was one of the figures celebrated through this corridos.\n\nAlthough these \"corridos\" mention kidnappings, assassination, executions, battles and disasters, they differ from the current \"narco-corridos\" in that the original \"corridos\" attempted to tell a story and give a moral message (like the fall and redemption, the sin and punishment, or life and death of a person ).\n\nThe first \"narco-corridos\" began to appear in the 1970s. Most scholars agree that the Tigres del Norte were the pioneers of this genre, first appearing in the southern United States, then becoming popular in Sinaloa, Sonora, Tijuana and Michoacán.\n\n\"Narcocorridos\" glorify and romanticize narco trafficking, and in a more recent trend of hyper-violent lyrics ( called \"Movimiento alterado\", Spanish for the \"cocaine-alertness movement\"), they started to express the pride of modern narcos have in murdering, torturing and dismembering their rivals. The traditional \"corridos\" spoke about the benevolent bandit who committed crimes for a good cause (in a robin-hood style). Joaquin \"El Chapo\" Guzman, Ismael \"El Mayo\" Zambada, and Rafael Caro Quintero among others, have been elevated to popular heroes in a similar way as the traditional corrido elevated the so-called benevolent bandits Heraclio Bernal and Jesus Malverde during the Mexican Revolution. The \"corridos\" about these characters praised the bravery of these bandits and identified them as defenders of the poor against an unjust government.\n\nIn addition to narrating the stories of well-known drug lords, \"narcocorridos\" demonstrate the evolution of drug trafficking in Mexico. The \"narcocorridos\" display a yearning for the countryside while expressing a desire for the modernity that the city has to offer. The austerity and simplicity of the countryside is reflected through images of horses, the ranch, agriculture, poverty, and the sombrero. The modernity of the city and material desires are expressed through images of mansions, luxury cars, cell phones, and designer clothing. Despite the poverty that exists in rural areas, the narco corridos idealize it as a place where there is no judgment or obstacles that would impede drug trafficking.\n\nA music scene, similar to the early underground gangsta-rap scene, has emerged in northeastern Mexico (Nuevo Leon, Tamaulipas and Coahuila), where the musical phenomenon of hip-hop is being co-opted by the influence of organized crime and the drug war in the region. With lyrics similar to those of a narcocorrido (drug ballad), has appeared the Mexican Narco-rap.\n\nHowever, unlike the corridos, which relate to rural regions of the Mexican Pacific (and which are generally linked to the Sinaloa cartel) the narco-rap emerged in the urban area of Tamaulipas, in the border with Texas, a turf currently under armed dispute between the Zetas and the Gulf Cartel.\n\nDerived from the constant presence of \"halcones\" (\"hawks\", cartel spies) and cartel-convoys circulating the streets of the region, young people have been involved in the local narcoculture, and narco-raps express the reality of life on the streets, of those cities under the drug cartels rule.\n\nThere are several notable cases, among them is a highly popular song called that praises the life and exploits of drug lord Samuel Flores Borrego (alias Metro 3) for his \"ferocity and loyalty.\" \n\nSome of the main exponents of the genre are Cano y Blunt, DemenT and Big Los.\n\nThis trend of narco-Mexico-related hip-hop has also an American counterpart, artists such as the rapper Uncle Murda, Skrillex, YG, Gucci Mane, 2 Chainz and Jayceon \"The Game\" Taylor have made songs dedicated Drug traffickers such as \"El Chapo Guzmán\".\n\n\"Narco juniors\" are a new form of narcocultural expression. Narco juniors are the children of the older drug traffickers, or the children of rich entrepreneurs that get involved in drug trade \"for fun\", that have come to reconstitute the meaning of narcoculture and drug trafficking. Unlike their fathers or grandfathers, the narco juniors have for the most part been raised in urban wealth. The older narco traffickers were raised in rural poverty, placed a high value on family and felt connected to their people and culture. They felt a responsibility to give back to their community. The narco juniors share a cynical pride in being drug traffickers. The narco juniors place more value on spending money, parties, and luxury. The marginalized people who were helped by the older traffickers, have now become the victims of the narco juniors' aggression.\n\nNarco-superstition and religion is a major aspect of narcoculture. It is a form of superstition, depicted through drug traffickers' devotion to St. Jude Thaddaeus (patron of lost causes and desperate situations) and Jesus Malverde. Jesus Malverde was said to be a bandit that stole from the rich to give to the poor. He lived his life running from the authorities. His image was appropriated as the patron saint of drug traffickers, the poor, and the marginalized. An altar with his name was erected in the place where it is said that he was hanged by the government.\n\nAnother aspect of narco religion is the involvement of drug traffickers with their local churches. This occurs primarily through narco limosnas (narco-donations) that drug traffickers give to the church. Drug traffickers have also used the church to launder money. Nora Perez-Rayon Elizundia gives an example of a bishop in Aguascalientes that admitted to taking donations from a drug trafficker because he said that the money could be \"purified\" when used for good causes.\n\nIn other parts of Mexico some drug traffickers and their hitmen pray for protection to the Holy Death, a personification of death, and in some cases they practice Santería or devil worshiping. These type of activities are not mainstream narco-behaviors, but do occur in some remote areas.\n\nNarco propaganda includes narco mantas, banners that appear in public places, such as highway overpasses and bridges. This is a way for narcos to communicate directly to the populace. These banners are also used to threaten leaders or other members of rival cartels.\nVariations of these banners include the narco poster, a message left next to a dead body, and the narco-pinta, graffiti sprayed or hand-painted on a whitewashed brick or adobe wall next to a commercial building or house.\n\nModern literature, not only novels or poetry but also newspapers, magazines and internet publishings, are means that tend to narrate 'real stories', or at least what is believed to be real about certain people involved with the narco movement. Sometimes they exaggerate the legacy of these people, and of the crimes they have committed, in order to intimidate their enemies or the population in general.\n\nThe narco western is a new literary genre that was started by Hilario Peña's \"Chinola Kid\" published in October 2012. In a recent interview Hilario states that the narco western is the modern version of a western. Instead of a horse, his character drives a truck and instead of fighting Apaches, his character must defeat criminals and the federal police in the state of Sinaloa.\n\nSee: Mexploitation#Mexican narcocinema\n\nNarco cinema in Mexico started as a combination of \"telenovelas\" (soap operas) and Mexican cinema during the 1960s, where the 'golden age' of cinema collapsed due to the interest of the population in television. During the 1970s, narco cinema consisted of movies released mostly for home entertainment or 'video home', creating a B-film market that focused on very controversial topics, that with use of violence would try to create a national reality or identity. These films were mostly made with a low budget, usually under 140,000 Mexican pesos (US$10,000), telling stories about police, drug dealers and prostitutes. These films are rarely discussed in mainstream media because of their low budgets, and connection with pop culture and low brow entertainment.\n\nNarco cinema today controls the Mexican film market, being influential along the border between the United States and Mexico. The films deal with the identity of the narco, consisting of a struggle of an anti-hero being immersed in a border culture, articulating narratives of life, death, love, loss, hope, greed, desire, humor and violence, alongside addiction, repetition and compulsion.\n\nNarco cinema develops anti-norms and expresses feelings discouraged in culturally accepted institutions. In this genre violence is at its most extreme, weapons and thug-like behavior taking center stage. The use of stereotyped characters and predictable plots alienates those looking for subtexts, complex story lines, and sophisticated writing, but for the poor rural people, these films are in demand because they tell the story of their lives and the lives around them.\n\nNarco violence is also used by mainstream films, taking inspiration from real life events that marked the country, or in other cases fictionalized events, example: Breaking Bad.\n\nSome examples of mainstream narco cinema include \"Miss Bala\", \"El Infierno\" and \"Heli\".\n\n\"Miss Bala\", a 2011 film directed by Gerardo Naranjo, that premiered in Cannes and got attention from critics, became a box office success in Mexico. Based on real life events, it tells the story of a young woman dreaming of becoming a beauty pageant queen. Narcos manipulate her to work for them, in exchange for her victory.\n\n\"El Infierno\" is a film directed by Luis Estrada. Compared to \"Miss Bala\", this film is more fictionalized and makes use of dark humor, developing empathy for the anti-hero, glorifying the drug bosses.\n\n\"Heli\", by Mexican director Amat Escalante, is one of the most representative films of narco cinema. The director said he tried not to focus the movie around explicit violence, which is expected of drug related movies. Yet one scene from the movie was considered the most brutal in Mexican cinema, showing traffickers burning the genitals of two young men in front of a group of children. Escalante refers to this as exposition, in that it shows how Mexico's youth is being ruined by these kind of people, at times leaving them without anything to look forward to in the future. The film focuses on love, family and hope, people wanting to believe they can succeed. This hope is conveyed through the eyes of Estela, a girl who falls in love with an older boy who involves her and her family in the drug world. Overall, Heli tries to eliminate the stereotypical figure of the Mexican cowboy or \"ranchero\", where the male figure is depicted by wearing boots and a hat. Instead the film shows atrocities committed by traffickers without offering any real solutions.\n\nCartels have been making use of the Internet over the years going from the outdated MySpace, to Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Here they post videos that announce themselves as a new emerging power to be feared. One of the most visited websites to follow information about events related to narco violence is \"El Blog del Narco\", which defines itself at neutral. Their only objective is to publish stories in a journalistic way. What draws the most attention are the confessional/torture videos posted, which contain lots of graphic violence, providing torture to the prisoners before being executed in front of the camera.\nTwitter is used to post threats to one another, and sometimes, with the use of special technology, Narcos can track other rivals in order to kill them. This can be detrimental as well, because sometimes police finds them in the same way. Instagram, can be used to show off their lifestyles, which includes new cars, expensive watches, designer clothes, fine liquor, exotic pets and massive weaponry.\n\nNotable examples are El Chino Ántrax and Claudia Ochoa Felix, supposed leaders of Los Ántrax, an enforcer gang of the Sinaloa cartel. Both captured the attention of news outlets and blogs with photos on Twitter and Instagram that showed how they enjoy the sort of spoils that Mexicans relate with the lives of successful drug traffickers. Claudia posts pictures on social media, as which she poses with expensive accessories like watches, purses, designer clothes, champagne bottles, cars and planes. Also frequently poses with big guns. In a press release, she mentions how her life has changed after those pictures have circulated around the world, and she fears for her family's safety. She claims that all those pictures of her were modified, because she is not the one appearing in them. She also claims that she has no association whatsoever with any of the drug cartels operating in Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "9058881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9058881", "title": "Nooksack language", "text": "Nooksack language\n\nThe Nooksack language (\"Lhéchalosem\") is a Coast Salish language spoken by the Nooksack people of northwestern Washington state in the United States, centered in Whatcom County.\n\nThe Nooksack language belongs to the Coast Salishan family of languages, and has one fluent speaker as of 2010.\n\nNooksack is most closely related to Squamish, Sháshíshálhem (Sechelt) and Halkomelem, which are all spoken in nearby parts of British Columbia, Canada. Some researchers have questioned whether the Nooksack language is simply a divergent dialect of Halkomelem, but research has proved that Nooksack is in fact a distinct language.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Salishan linguist Brent Galloway worked closely with the last remaining native speaker, Sindick Jimmy, who died in 1988. He was compiling a dictionary of the language, and his book, \"Nooksack place names: geography, culture, and language\", appeared in 2011. The Nooksack tribe has offered classes in the language. As of 2010, one fluent speaker remained, a Nooksack tribal member who is part of the Lhéchalosem Teacher Training Language Immersion Project.\n\nStudents will spend mornings in language immersion, and afternoons working on special projects, focusing on the language use in one aspect of local native culture such as fishing or crafts. After two years, the students will obtain a certificate similar to an Associate Degree, and after four years they will be fully qualified language teachers, with the equivalent of a Bachelor of Arts. The aim is to revive the use of the Lhéchalosem language in all aspects of daily life. The program has an annual budget of $110,000, with 60 percent funded by the Administration for Native Americans (ANA) and 40 percent funded by the Nooksack Tribe.\n\nThe following table includes all the vowel sounds found in the Nooksack language.\nThe following table includes all the consonant sounds found in the Nooksack language.\nIn addition, the symbol \"ː\" indicates long vowels and consonants (e.g. , ). An acute accent (´) is placed on the accented syllable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39941993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39941993", "title": "Plucky Brit", "text": "Plucky Brit\n\nPlucky Brit is slang for a British athlete who is brave and determined, especially when success is unlikely. The term is used in popular culture. Success in the 2012 Summer Olympics challenged the stereotype of the British plucky loser. Chris Hoy stated “I think the Brits historically have got used to being the plucky losers. The attitude has been we'll support our lads and our lasses but we don't expect them to win anything. The teams go to the world cup in football and there are the usual tales of woe – losing penalty shoot-outs. It's like inevitable that the Brits are going to get beaten at some point. But I think that's there's a change in that culture in sport.”\n"}
{"id": "4013760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4013760", "title": "Public trustee", "text": "Public trustee\n\nThe public trustee is an office established pursuant to national (and, where applicable, state or territory) statute, to act as a trustee, usually where a sum is required to be deposited as security by legislation, where courts remove another trustee, or for estates where either no executor is named by will or the testator elects to name the Public Trustee.\n\nThe first Public Trustee is that of New Zealand; it was proposed by Edward Cephas John Stevens in 1870 due to the difficulty of finding reliable private trustees in the colony and adopted by Prime Minister Julius Vogel who established the Public Trust and installed Jonas Woodward as the world's first Public Trustee on January 1, 1873. Initially it was a part-time for position for one man, the government had not anticipated that much of the public would prefer to trust a bureaucrat with their estate - by the mid 20th century the New Zealand Public Trustee gained nearly 1/3 of the estate market in the country, was undertaking many statutory duties beyond this and employed a staff of a thousand. meanwhile the idea was spreading, initially across the Tasman, where South Australia established a Public trustee on the same model on 1 January 1881, making it the first Public Trustee established in Australia.\n\nThe office of Public Trustee was adopted by several other countries of the Commonwealth, including the United Kingdom, (founded 1906), where it plays a far more limited role, Sri Lanka, Hong Kong, Singapore, most Canadian provinces and all Australian states. The office also appears, in a different sense, in some states of the United States.although this has declined to just under 20 percent.\n\nThere is a public trustee in each state and territory of Australia and a similar national position exists under English law. The public trustee primarily performs the role of trustee of deceased's estates where no executor is appointed, or the executor declines to act (and no other person is appropriate). Some public trustees also provide a free or inexpensive service for drawing wills (receiving remuneration upon administering the estate). The public trustees also manage the estates of infants (such as in cases where they receive a damages settlement), prisoners, and others under a disability (legal or otherwise), when required. The public trustee may also act as trustee of unclaimed property in some states (Australia).\n\nAlthough much reduced in size after a series of restructurings in the 1990s, and unsuccessful moves into conveyancing, unit trust-like investments and other non-core business, which led to large losses at the end of the decade, the office has now returned to profit. As at 2005 it held over 330,000 wills and drafted over 21,000 wills per year, managed 3,500 residential properties, 400 charitable trusts and 30 farms, employing 450 people at 35 offices. Public Trust was a corporation sole until 2001, when it was moved to a company-like structure called a 'Crown entity'.\n\n"}
{"id": "22542876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22542876", "title": "Richard Ian Kimball", "text": "Richard Ian Kimball\n\nRichard Ian Kimball is a professor of history at Brigham Young University (BYU). He is a leading expert on the history of sports, especially as it relates to the Latter-day Saints. His book \"Sports in Zion: Mormon Recreation 1890-1940\" was published by the University of Illinois Press and has been reviewed by such widely recognized journals as the \"Western Political Quarterly\" and the \"American Historical Review\". Essentially the same book has also been marketed by Deseret Book under the title \"To Make True Latter-day Saints: Mormon Recreation in the Progressive Era\".\n\nKimball's \"Sports in Zion\" has been viewed by some as a misnamed book. It studies much more than sports, but all non-religious movements by the Latter-day Saints during the age. It covers such things as the movement to adopt the Boy Scouting movement by the LDS Church, including the support of such by Eugene Roberts and the initial opposition by B. H. Roberts, who was persuaded to support the adoption of the Boy Scouts by Eugene Roberts' arguments.\n\nKimball is the son of James L. Kimball Jr., who for 25 years was an employee of the LDS Church History Department, and is the grandson of J. LeRoy Kimball, who was the first president of Nauvoo Restoration, Inc. and a leading figure in the rebuilding of the historic buildings of Nauvoo. Kimball is also a descendant of Heber C. Kimball.\n\nKimball received his bachelor's degree from BYU in American Studies and then received a master's degree and Ph.D. both in history from Purdue University. He has been a professor at BYU since 1998.\n\nAlthough Kimball has heavily studied Mormon sport history, he has also studied other facets of Mormon social history and has done studies of sport history not related to Mormons. He along with Gary Daynes produced a documentary and wrote the article \"By Their Fruits Ye Shall Know Them: A Cultural History of Orchard Life in Utah Valley\" which was published in the Western Historical Quarterly. In addition they produced the film \"The Best Crop\" specifically about the orchards of Orem, Utah. He also wrote an article for BYU Studies entitled \"All Hail To Christmas: Mormon Pioneers Holiday Celebrations\".\n\nIn his writings Kimball has dealt with how sports and race relations interplay in Utah history.\n\nKimball has also contributed articles to such publications as the \"Nine: The Journal of Baseball History and Culture\" and \"Chicago Sports\".\n\nKimball is a Latter-day Saint.\n\n"}
{"id": "5745884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5745884", "title": "Sarah (LeRoy novel)", "text": "Sarah (LeRoy novel)\n\nSarah is a novel by Laura Albert, written under the name JT LeRoy, a persona that she has described as an \"avatar,\" asserting that it enabled her to write things she could not have said as herself.\n\n\"Sarah\" is narrated by an unnamed boy whose mother Sarah is a lot lizard: a prostitute who works the truck stops in West Virginia. She can be abusive and abandoning, yet he longs for her love and has begun wearing her clothes and imitating her.\n\nThe boy agrees to work for Glad, a benevolent pimp who specializes in \"boy-girls.\" Glad gives him a raccoon penis bone, which he wears as an amulet for protection, good fortune, and sexual prowess as well as to signify his status as one of Glad's boy-girls. He is given the name Cherry Vanilla, but on his first date with a trucker he uses the name Sarah.\n\nHoping to outperform his rejecting mother and become the greatest lot lizard of them all, he goes off on his own into the wilds of West Virginia and is eventually taken up by a very powerful and very dangerous pimp known as Le Loup. Unaware that this new girl is a boy, Le Loup uses him not to turn tricks but as an object of veneration – and donations – with luck-conscious and magic-fearing truckers. Eventually Saint Sarah's mystique fades, and when he is revealed to be a boy Le Loup forces him to work alongside other boy prostitutes and live in captivity with them. After an agonizing year, Glad is finally able to rescue him from Le Loup, but the boy who returns is no longer capable of rejoining Glad's boy-girls; his mother Sarah is long gone as well.\nIn an afterword, the boy who is now a grown man tells the reader that his therapist, Dr. Owens has suggested he write about his experiences as to “better his recovery”. The boy closes the story by revealing that Sarah was found in an abandoned trailer after shooting herself. He stops to wonder why he ever tried to be like her, before realizing that the only thing that mattered was that he wasn’t.\n\nSarah uses narrative elements and characterizations that also occur in the short stories of \"The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things\" (2001). But unlike \"The Heart\" or \"Harold's End\" (2004), Sarah is rich in humor and more fabulistic in its characters and situations. These qualities temper the harsh themes this novel shares with the other JT LeRoy books: abuse, exploitation, abandonment, betrayal, loss. Like them, it also explores the dynamics of identity and gender and employs the plot situation of having one's hidden life exposed and the shaming, hostility, and violence that ensue. Poet and critic Stephen Burt called Sarah \"a work of art\" and \"a book about the risks and thrills of false identity,\" which derives its power \"from the glee with which it refuses realism: multiple subjects (sexual trauma, coming out, rural poverty) that American fiction usually depicts with flat-footed seriousness instead come together for a Technicolor romp.\"\n\nThe song \"Cherry Lips\" by Garbage refers to Cherry Vanilla from Sarah and the persona of JT LeRoy.\n\nThe song \"Sarah\" by Bat for Lashes was inspired by the novel Sarah.\n\n"}
{"id": "3582654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3582654", "title": "Sexual minority", "text": "Sexual minority\n\nA sexual minority is a group whose sexual identity, orientation or practices differ from the majority of the surrounding society. It can also refer to transgender, genderqueer (including third gender) or intersex individuals. The term is primarily used to refer to LGB individuals, especially gay people.\n\nMore recently, the catch-all terms GSM (\"Gender and Sexual Minorities\"), GSRM (\"Gender, Sexual, and Romantic Minorities\"), and GSD (\"Gender and Sexual Diversity\") have been proposed.\n\nThe term \"sexual minority\" was coined most likely in the late 1960s under the influence of Lars Ullerstam's ground breaking book \"The Erotic Minorities: A Swedish View\" which came strongly in favor of tolerance and empathy to uncommon varieties of sexuality, such as paedophilia and \"sex criminals\". The term was used as analogous to ethnic minority.\n\nScientists such as Ritch Savin-Williams support using the term in order to accurately describe adolescent youths who may not identify as any common culturally-defined sexual identity label (lesbian, gay, bisexual, \"et cetera\") but who still have attractions towards those of the same anatomical sex as themselves.\n\nSocial issues may lead to possible health and psychological issues, especially in youth. It has been found that sexual minorities face increased stress due to stigmas. This stigma-related stress creates elevated coping regulation and social and cognitive processes leading to risk for psychopathology.\n\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published their 2015 study of large cohorts of ninth to twelfth grade students across the US. One hundred health behaviors were shown to put LGB students at risk for health consequences. Sexual minority students engage in more risky behaviors when compared with nonsexual minority students. Some students \"...had no sexual contact [and] were excluded from analyses on sexual behaviors [including] female students who had sexual contact with only females [and] were excluded from analyses on condom use and birth control use...\" Also excluded were \"...male students who had sexual contact with only males [and] were excluded from analyses on birth control use.” One small study showed that LGBT adolescents were victimized more often, had higher rates of psychopathology, left home more frequently, used highly addictive substances more frequently, and were more likely to have more multiple sex partners than heterosexual adolescents.\n\nBased on studies of adolescents, it is concluded that sexual minorities are similar to heterosexual adolescents in developmental needs and concerns. However, research has suggested that sexual minority youth (more specifically GLBT youth) are more susceptible to psychological and health issues than heterosexual youth.\n\nSexual minorities tend to use alternative and complementary medicine alternative methods of addressing their health needs more often than heterosexuals. Sexual minority women have a higher incidence of asthma, obesity, arthritis and cardiovascular disease than other groups.\n\nAdolescent sexual minorities report a higher incidence of the following when compared to heterosexual students:\n\n\nWhen compared to the general population, sexual minorities have a higher risk for self-injury. The treatment of aging sexual minorities seems to be influenced more by ageism. Support for aging sexual minorities appears to be common.\n\nWhen gay, lesbian, and bisexual adults reported being discriminated against, forty-two percent credited it to their sexual orientation. This discrimination was positively associated with both harmful effects on quality of life and indicators of psychiatric morbidity. \n\nSexual minorities are generally portrayed in the mass media as being ignored, trivialized, or condemned. The term symbolic annihilation accounts for their lack of characterization due to not fitting into the white, heterosexual, vanilla type lifestyle. It has been suggested that online media has developed into a space in which sexual minorities may use “social artillery”. This description centers on how social networking and connections to oppose instances of homophobia. Still, some individuals have made their way into the media through television and music. TV shows such as The Ellen DeGeneres Show and ABC’s Modern Family star individuals who are open about their non-heterosexual lifestyles. In music, people like Sam Smith and Sia have created songs that express their emotions and sexuality with a number of followers. While sexual minorities do have a place in the media, it is often critiqued that they are still limited in their representations. In shows, if a character is gay, they are often a very shallow character that is only present for comic relief or as a plot twist. Compared to a heteronormative counterpart, the sexual minority is often a mere side-kick. However, since the integration of actors, musicians, and characters of sexual minorities, the idea of non-normativity has become more normalized in society.\n\nCurrent and past research has been \"skewed toward SM men—and is disproportionately focused on HIV and other sexually transmitted infections.\" Between 1989 and 2011, numerous grants for research were sponsored and funded by the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) but funded research for sexual minorities and health made up 0.1% of all funded studies addressed the health of sexual minorities - especially women. Most research has been directed toward gay and bisexual men. Women sexual minority studies accounted for 13.5%.\n\nSexual minorities in South Africa have sexual-orientation-related health inequities when compared to other countries. One of the highest prevalence of sexual violence directed toward women of a sexual minority occurs in South Africa. Women of color who are living in low income urban areas are notably targeted. The perpetrators of sexual violence believe they are correcting the women and their actions will cure them of their homosexuality.\n\nSome LGBT people object to using the term \"sexual minorities\" and prefer the term LGBT. Reasons for these objections may vary. For example, some LGBT people feel that the term \"sexual minority\" reminds them about discrimination and about being a minority. They want to be not a distinct minority but an integral and respectable part of the society. Some other LGBT people dislike the term for being too inclusive, including swingers, polyamorists, BDSM people and other perceived \"sexual strangers\". These LGBT people want to make a larger distance between these sexual practices and bisexuality/homosexuality/transgender.\n\nSome transgender and transsexual people dislike the term \"sexual minority\" for yet another reason. They argue that the phenomenon of transsexuality or transgender has nothing to do with sex, sexual practices or sexual orientation, but it relates to the gender, gender dysphoria and gender-variant behavior or feelings. Thus, they feel it is incorrect to classify them as \"sexual minority\", when, in fact, they are gender-variant minority.\n\nSome conservative groups oppose the use of the term \"sexual minority\" for completely different reasons. They think or feel that the term inherently implies some degree of legalisation or protection for those engaged in such sexual practices, much like ethnic minorities are protected from being discriminated or persecuted in modern democratic countries.\n\nSome people dislike the term because it includes \"minority\", when the fact is that not all these categories are really about minorities but actually about \"minorised\" groups.\n\nOthers referred to as \"sexual minorities\" include fetishists and practitioners in of BDSM (bondage, dominance, and submission), and sadism and masochism. The term may also include asexuals and people who may be strictly heterosexual and whose choice of actual sex acts may be vanilla, but whose choice of partner or partners is atypical, such as swingers (although this is debated), polyamorists or people in other nonmonogamous relationships, people who strongly prefer adolescent sex partners, and are of age disparity in sexual relationships. or people who engage in mixed race relationships.\n\nUsually, the term \"sexual minority\" is applied only to groups who practice consensual sex: for example, it would be unusual to refer to rapists as a sexual minority, but the term would generally include someone whose sexuality gave a major, fetishized role to consensual playing out of a rape fantasy. Also, someone who very occasionally incorporates of consensual kink or same-sex activity into a largely vanilla, heterosexual sex life would not usually be described as a \"sexual minority\".\n"}
{"id": "164642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164642", "title": "Spanish fly", "text": "Spanish fly\n\nSpanish fly (\"Lytta vesicatoria\") is an emerald-green beetle in the blister beetle family (Meloidae). It and other such species were used in preparations offered by traditional apothecaries, often referred to as \"Cantharides\" or \"Spanish fly\". The insect is the source of the terpenoid cantharidin, a toxic blistering agent once used as an aphrodisiac.\n\n\"L. vesicatoria\" is sometimes called \"Cantharis vesicatoria\", although the genus \"Cantharis\" is in an unrelated family, Cantharidae, the soldier beetles.\n\n\"Lytta vesicatoria\" is a slender, soft-bodied metallic and iridescent golden-green insect, one of the blister beetles. It is approximately wide by long.\n\nThe generic and specific names derive from the Greek λύττα (\"lytta\") for martial rage, raging madness, Bacchic frenzy, or rabies, and Latin \"vesica\" for blister.\n\nThe Spanish fly is a mainly southern European species although its range of habitats is more completely described as being \"throughout southern Europe and eastward to Central Asia and Siberia,\" alternatively as being throughout Europe, and parts of northern and southern Asia (excluding China). It occurs locally in southern Great Britain and Poland.\n\nAdult beetles primarily feed on leaves of ash, lilac, amur privet, honey suckle and white willow tree while occasionally being found on plum, rose, and elm.\n\nThe defensive chemical cantharidin, for which the beetle is known, is produced only by males; females obtain it from males during mating, as the spermatophore contains some. This may be a nuptial gift, increasing the value of mating to the female, and thus increasing the male's reproductive fitness.\n\nThe female lays her fertilised eggs on the ground, near the nest of a ground-nesting solitary bee. The larvae are very active as soon as they hatch. They climb a flowering plant and await the arrival of a solitary bee. They hook themselves on to the bee using the three claws on their legs that give the first instar larvae their name, triungulins (from Latin \"tri\", three, and \"ungulus\", claw). The bee carries the larvae back to its nest, where they feed on bee larvae and the bees' food supplies. The larvae are thus somewhere between predators and parasites. The active larvae moult into very different, more typically scarabaeoid larvae for the remaining two or more instars, in a development type called hypermetamorphosis. The adults emerge from the bees' nest and fly to the woody plants on which they feed.\n\nCantharidin, the principal active component in preparations of Spanish fly, was first isolated and named in 1810 by the French chemist Pierre Robiquet, who demonstrated that it was the principal agent responsible for the aggressively blistering properties of this insect's egg coating. It was asserted at that time that it was as toxic as the most violent poisons then known, such as strychnine.\n\nThe active agent has been estimated present at about 0.2-0.7 mg per beetle, males producing significantly more than females. The beetle secretes the agent orally, and exudes it from its joints as a milky fluid. The potency of the insect species as a vesicant has been known since antiquity and the activity has been used in various ways. This has led to its small-scale commercial preparation and sale, in a powdered form known as \"cantharides\" (from the plural of Greek κανθαρίς, \"Kantharis\", beetle), obtained from dried and ground beetles. The crushed powder is of yellow-brown to brown-olive color with iridescent reflections, is of disagreeable scent, and is bitter to taste. Cantharidin, the active agent, is a terpenoid, and is produced by some other insects, such as \"Epicauta immaculata\".\n\nCantharidin is dangerously toxic, inhibiting the enzyme phosphatase 2A. It causes irritation, blistering, bleeding and discomfort. These effects can escalate to erosion and bleeding of mucosa in each system, sometimes followed by severe gastro-intestinal bleeding and acute tubular necrosis and glomerular destruction, resulting in gastro-intestinal and renal dysfunction, by organ failure, and death.\n\nPreparations from \"L. vesicatoria\" and its active agent have been implicated in both inadvertent and intentional poisonings. Froberg notes a 1954 manslaughter case where cantharidin was administered in a coconut-flavoured candy as an intended aphrodisiac, resulting in illness and eventual death of two women (agent identified postmortem), and in facial blistering and criminal conviction of the perpetrator.\n\nIn Morocco and other parts of North Africa, spice blends known as \"ras el hanout\" sometimes included as a minor ingredient \"green metallic beetles\", inferred to be cantharides from \"L. vesicatoria\", although sale of this in Moroccan spice markets was banned in the 1990s. \"Dawamesk\", a spread or jam made in North Africa and containing hashish, almond paste, pistachio nuts, sugar, orange or tamarind peel, cloves, and other various spices, occasionally included cantharides.\n\nIn ancient China, the beetles were mixed with human excrement, arsenic, and wolfsbane to make the world's first recorded stink bomb.\n\nThe Venezuelan leader Simón Bolívar may have been accidentally poisoned by application of Spanish fly.\n\nArthur Kendrick Ford was convicted and given a multiyear prison sentence in 1954 for the unintended deaths of two women surreptitiously given candies laced with cantharidin, which were intended to act as an aphrodisiac.\n"}
{"id": "5325786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5325786", "title": "Surah of Wilaya and Nurayn", "text": "Surah of Wilaya and Nurayn\n\nThe Surah of Wilaya and Nurayn are two surahs (chapters) that are considered forgeries by Sunni Scholars. The chapters first appeared in a mid 17th century book called \"Dabistan-i Madhahib\" by anonymous writer(s) in India. These chapters are not to be found in the Qur'an and there is no record of them in earlier sources.\n\nSurat al-Nurayn (), meaning \"the Chapter of the Two Lights\"\n\nSurat al-wilaya (), meaning \"the chapter of mastership\"\n\nNeither Shi'a believe those surahs are included in the Qur'an, but some have claimed that the Shi'a do indeed believe those surahs to be an authentic part of the Qur'an and include them therein (in what has been dubbed the Shi'a Quran). However, the Shi'a dismiss this as unfounded accusations aimed at accusing Shi'as of believing in the corruption of the Qur'an. No copy of the Quran exists with the addition of these two surahs and there is no mention of them found in any of the earliest codices of the Quran and Hadith. The author of text on the other hand is said to have been a Parsi according to some academics. On the other hand, M. Momen states that:\n\nWestern Academics such as von Grunebaum view the text as a clear forgery, although many of them have not subscribed to the idea that the text was indeed a forgery made by a Zoroastrian and not a Shia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2267454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2267454", "title": "The Future of Culture in Egypt", "text": "The Future of Culture in Egypt\n\nThe Future of Culture in Egypt () is a 1938 book by the Egyptian writer Taha Hussein.\n\nThe book is a work of Egyptian nationalism advocating both independence and the adoption of various European modes of behaviour and institutions such as a strong military. The book was written some time after the granting of Egyptian independence by the British in 1922 but while there remained considerable British influence. Independence was furthered by the nationalisation of the Suez Canal by Egypt in 1956, a move recommended by Hussein in the book.\n\nHussein stressed the shared heritage of the Mediterranean civilization and Egypt's connections with European culture over its relationship with the Middle East. It opposed the Arab nationalist view of unity among all Arabic-speaking nations. The question is still debated.\n\nHe also talked of the need to improve Egyptian education.\n\n"}
{"id": "264104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=264104", "title": "The Haunted Mask", "text": "The Haunted Mask\n\nThe Haunted Mask is the eleventh book in \"Goosebumps\", the series of children's horror fiction novels created and written by R. L. Stine. The book follows Carly Beth, a girl who buys a Halloween mask from a store. After putting on the mask, she starts acting differently and discovers that the mask has become her face; she is unable to pull the mask off. R. L. Stine says he got the idea for the book from his son who had put on a Halloween mask he had trouble getting off.\n\n\"The Haunted Mask\" was featured on the \"USA Today\" and \"Publishers Weekly\" bestseller list, and cited by one reviewer as \"ideal for reluctant readers and Halloween-themed sleepovers.\" In the mid-1990s, the book was adapted for television and released on VHS on March 12, 1996. \"The Haunted Mask\" has three published sequels; \"The Haunted Mask II\", \"The Scream of the Haunted Mask\" and a stand-alone story, \"Wanted: The Haunted Mask\".\n\n\"The Haunted Mask\" was written by R. L. Stine and originally illustrated by Tim Jacobus. The author says the idea for the book came from his son Matthew Stine, who put on a mask that he had trouble getting off during Halloween. Stine also says that he incorporated a duck costume his parents got him for trick-or-treating in the book. Tim Jacobus's niece was the model for the cover of the book.\n\nThe book was first published in September 1993 by Scholastic, and reissued in 2003 and on September 1, 2008. An audiobook, narrated by Jorjeana Marie, was published in 2015 by Scholastic Audio.\n\nCarly Beth Caldwell is a naive, timid and gullible 11-year-old girl who is afraid of pretty much everything. Thus, she is a constant target for pranks, jokes and tricks, most of them being inflicted on her by Steve Boswell and Chuck Greene at Walnut Avenue Middle School. In the opening chapter, Carly Beth and Sabrina discuss what costumes they are going to wear for Halloween, and Carly Beth is tricked by Steve into eating a sandwich containing a live worm. Horrified, Carly Beth flees and vows revenge. After school, she goes home and finds her mother has made her a silly duck costume for Halloween, and also a very realistic plaster of Paris model of Carly Beth's head. When she goes to her room, the duck costume seemingly comes alive and attacks Carly Beth. It turns out it is her younger brother, Noah, playing another trick on her. Sabrina calls, and they discuss the school science fair.\n\nAt the science fair, Steve causes a panic by announcing his pet tarantula has escaped, and Carly Beth is terrified of tarantulas. Steve creeps up behind her during the chaos, and pinches her leg to make it seem that the tarantula is biting her. Carly Beth flies into a frenzied panic, destroys her and Sabrina's project and is again humiliated in front of her teachers and classmates. Carly Beth vows that she will definitely make Steve pay for what he did to her. She plots to go to a new store that has opened, which sells frightening costumes, and plans to scare Steve and Chuck as payback.\n\nOn Halloween day, she goes to the party store, but it is closed. However, the store manager appears and allows her into the shop. She dismisses the masks she sees on display as not good enough for scaring anyone. But she sneaks into a back room and discovers a row of hideously deformed masks. She is startled to find that the masks feel warm and like human skin, not rubber or plastic. The store owner reluctantly sells her one of the masks and Carly Beth goes home in delight. Later that day, after she takes the mold of her head that her mother made, she puts on the mask and goes in search of Chuck and Steve, determined to get revenge on them. She starts acting more and more aggressively as the night goes on: she chokes Sabrina, throws apples at a house, and frightens children she does not know. When she manages to scare Chuck and Steve, she loses the head her mother made, but no longer cares.\n\nWhile at Sabrina's house, Carly Beth is shocked to find she is unable to remove the mask and that the mask has, in fact, become her face. She returns to the store and finds the owner waiting for her. The store owner tells her that the \"mask\" is actually a real living face. All the masks in the back room are deformed, monstrous, living faces. The store owner made them, but they started out beautiful but then became hideous. Every so often, a person puts one on and the mask possesses them. It can only be removed by a \"symbol of love\", but if it attaches itself to her or another person again, it will be forever. Carly Beth screams in horror, and the other masks begin to pursue her. While running away from the masks, she realizes that the mold her mother made is a symbol of love. Carly Beth finds the mold and uses it to deter the masks and remove the mask from her face. She returns home to her mother, tossing the mask away. Noah later bursts in and asks her, \"How do I look in your mask?\"\n\n\"The Haunted Mask\" was featured on \"USA Today\"'s Top 150 Best-Selling Books database for 43 weeks, attaining a peak position of 107. In 2001, it was listed as the 249th bestselling children's paperback book of all time by \"Publishers Weekly\", having sold 1.42 million copies.\n\nTerreece Clarke from Common Sense Media rated the book three stars out of five, commenting that it \"is ideal for reluctant readers and Halloween-themed sleepovers\" and \"is one of the better books in the \"Goosebumps\" series\". \"Flavorwire\"s Kevin Pires listed the book as one of his ten favorite \"Goosebumps\" books, stating \"Tim Jacobus’ [...] gripping illustration and Stine’s straightforward plot made \"The Haunted Mask\" an emblem for the series.\" Nathan Reese and Brooke Marine from Complex.com ranked it as the best \"Goosebumps\" book, stating the book was very thrilling, and the twist ending caused the right amount of horror. Author and librarian Herbert N. Foerstel stated it was \"perhaps the most famous \"Goosebumps\" book\".\n\nFilming for \"The Haunted Mask\" episode began in 1995 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The episode first aired on October 27, 1995 on the Fox Network as the series premiere of the \"Goosebumps\" TV series. In the United States, \"The Haunted Mask\" was viewed by 14.1 million people. In Canada, the episode aired on YTV and became the network's highest rated episode up to that point, with nearly three million viewers.\n\nIt was subsequently released on VHS on March 12, 1996. The video was listed 75th in \"Billboard\"'s list of Top Video Sales for 1996, the only \"Goosebumps\" video on the list. Frazier Tharpe, Brendan Klinkenberg, and Khal from Complex.com named it the 10th best Halloween themed TV episode and called it one of the scariest \"Goosebumps\" episodes. Michelle Erica Green from FamilyWonder.com viewed it less positively, stating that it had stereotypical characters, a corny feel-good message, and hokey special effects. In 1997, Kathryn Long, who played Carly Beth, received a Gemini Award nomination for \"Best Performance in a Children’s or Youth Program or Series\".\n\nThree sequels of the book were published, \"The Haunted Mask II\" in October 1995 (the thirty-sixth book in the \"Goosebumps\" series), \"The Scream of the Haunted Mask\" on August 1, 2008 (the fourth book in the \"Goosebumps HorrorLand\" series) and a stand-alone story on July 1, 2012, \"Wanted: The Haunted Mask\". \"Wanted: The Haunted Mask\" was published as a celebration of the 20th anniversary of \"Goosebumps\". Another book, \"The Haunted Mask Lives!\", was listed on illustrator Tim Jacobus's website, but was not released.\n\n"}
{"id": "43598725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43598725", "title": "Three Great Tenjin Shrines", "text": "Three Great Tenjin Shrines\n\nThe Three Great Tenjin Shrines (日本三大天神) are a group of three Shinto shrines dedicated to Tenjin, the deified form of the scholar-courtier Sugawara no Michizane. They are traditionally enumerated as:\n\n"}
{"id": "25724273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25724273", "title": "Tigers in Korean culture", "text": "Tigers in Korean culture\n\nThe tiger has been strongly associated with Korean people and Korean culture. It appears in not only the Korean foundation mythology but also in folklore, as well as a favorite subject of Korean art such as painting and sculpture. The mascot of the 1988 Summer Olympics held in Seoul, South Korea is Hodori, a stylized tiger to represent Korean people.\n\nRegarded by many as the divine spirit that guards the West, people in Korea consider the white tiger as a sacred creature in local folklore.\n\nA tiger that has overcome trials and tribulations and understands the world is known to turn white, becoming a white tiger. Although it is a sacred creature that doesn’t harm people, it becomes angry when the ruler of the country conducts evil and inhumane deeds. Therefore, it has been told that powerful people become humble and rich people become generous when a white tiger appears.\n\nAs such, in Korean history and culture, a tiger is regarded as a guardian that drives away evil spirit and a sacred creature that brings good luck – the symbol of courage and absolute power.\n\nThe oldest historical record about the tiger can be found in the myth of Dangun, the legendary founding father of Gojoseon, told in the Samguk Yusa, or the Memorabilia of the Three Kingdoms. According to the myth, a bear and a tiger wished to become human beings. The bear turned into a woman by observing the commandments to eat only mugwort and garlic for 100 days in the cave. But the tiger couldn’t endure the ordeal and ran off, failing to realize its wish.\n\nThere are 635 historical records about tigers in the Annals of the Joseon Dynasty. The story of a tiger that began from a myth can be also found in daily life as well. For example, the 19th-century painting named\n“Sansindo” depicts the guardian spirit of a mountain leaning against a tiger or riding on the back of the animal. The animal is also known to do the errands for the mountain’s guardian spirit which is known to wish for peace and the well-being of the village. So, the tiger was ordered by the spiritual guardian of the mountain to give protection and wish for peace in the village. People drew such paintings and hung them in the shrine built in the mountain of the village where memorial rituals were performed regularly. In Buddhism, there is also a shrine that keeps the painting of the guardian spirit of the mountain. Called “Sansintaenghwa”, it is depiction of the guardian spirit of the mountain and a tiger.\n\nThe painting “Jakhodo” is about a magpie and a tiger. The letter “jak” means magpie; “ho” means tiger; and “do” means painting. Since the work is known to keep away evil influence, there is a tradition to hang the art piece in the house in the first month of the lunar calendar. On a branch of a green pine tree sits a magpie and the tiger, with a humorous expression, looks up at the bird. The tiger in “Jakhodo” doesn’t look anything like a strong creature with power and authority. Here again is Gu.\n\n\"Kkachi horangi\", paintings depicting magpies and tigers, was a prominent motif in the \"minhwa\" folk art of the Joseon period. In \"kkachi horangi\" paintings, the tiger, which is intentionally given a ridiculous and stupid appearance (hence its nickname \"idiot tiger\" 바보호랑이), represents authority and the aristocratic yangban, while the dignified magpie represents the common man. Hence, \"kkachi horangi\" paintings of magpies and tigers were a satire of the hierarchical structure of Joseon's feudal society.\n\nThey can be also found around the royal tombs. In front of the burial mound stands the stone tiger sculptures. People believed that tigers also safeguarded the tomb, the permanent home for the dead. The sacredness of the tiger was also utilized for holding rituals that pray for rain. According to the historical records of the early Joseon era, the head of a tiger was offered as the sacrificial offering when performing a ritual praying for rain while Joseon was under the reign of kings such as Taejong, Sejong, Munjong, and Danjong.\n\n"}
{"id": "191445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191445", "title": "Vocabulary", "text": "Vocabulary\n\nA vocabulary is a set of familiar words within a person's language. A vocabulary, usually developed with age, serves as a useful and fundamental tool for communication and acquiring knowledge. Acquiring an extensive vocabulary is one of the largest challenges in learning a second language.\n\nVocabulary is commonly defined as \"all the words known and used by a particular person\". \"Knowing\" a word, however, is not as simple as merely being able to recognize or use it. There are several aspects of word knowledge that are used to measure word knowledge.\n\nThe first major distinction that must be made when evaluating word knowledge is whether the knowledge is productive (also called achieve) or receptive (also called receive); even within those opposing categories, there is often no clear distinction. Words that are generally understood when heard or read or seen constitute a person's receptive vocabulary. These words may range from well-known to barely known (see degree of knowledge below). A person's receptive vocabulary is the larger of the two. For example, although a young child may not yet be able to speak, write, or sign, he or she may be able to follow simple commands and appear to understand a good portion of the language to which they are exposed. In this case, the child's receptive vocabulary is likely tens, if not hundreds of words, but his or her active vocabulary is zero. When that child learns to speak or sign, however, the child's active vocabulary begins to increase. It is also possible for the productive vocabulary to be larger than the receptive vocabulary, for example in a second-language learner who has learned words through study rather than exposure, and can produce them, but has difficulty recognizing them in conversation.\n\nProductive vocabulary, therefore, generally refers to words that can be produced within an appropriate context and match the intended meaning of the speaker or signer. As with receptive vocabulary, however, there are many degrees at which a particular word may be considered part of an active vocabulary. Knowing how to pronounce, sign, or write a word does not necessarily mean that the word that has been used correctly or accurately reflects the intended message; but it does reflect a minimal amount of productive knowledge.\n\nWithin the receptive–productive distinction lies a range of abilities that are often referred to as \"degree of knowledge\". This simply indicates that a word gradually enters a person's vocabulary over a period of time as more aspects of word knowledge are learnt. Roughly, these stages could be described as:\n\n\nThe differing degrees of word knowledge imply a greater \"depth of knowledge\", but the process is more complex than that. There are many facets to knowing a word, some of which are not hierarchical so their acquisition does not necessarily follow a linear progression suggested by \"degree of knowledge\". Several frameworks of word knowledge have been proposed to better operationalise this concept. One such framework includes nine facets:\n\n\nWords can be defined in various ways, and estimates of vocabulary size differ depending on the definition used. The most common definition is that of a lemma (the uninflected or dictionary form; this includes \"walk\", but not \"walks, walked or walking\"). Most of the time lemmas do not include proper nouns (names of people, places, companies, etc). Another definition often used in research of vocabulary size is that of word family. These are all the words that can be derived from a ground word (e.g., the words \"effortless, effortlessly, effortful, effortfully\" are all part of the word family \"effort\"). Estimates of vocabulary size range from as high as 200 thousand to as low as 10 thousand, depending on the definition used. \n\n\"Listed in order of most ample to most limited:\"\n\nA literate person's vocabulary is all the words they can recognize when reading. This is generally the largest type of vocabulary simply because a reader tends to be exposed to more words by reading than by listening.\n\nA person's listening vocabulary is all the words they can recognize when listening to speech. People may still understand words they were not exposed to before using cues such as tone, gestures, the topic of discussion and the social context of the conversation.\n\nA person's speaking vocabulary is all the words they use in speech. It is likely to be a subset of the listening vocabulary. Due to the spontaneous nature of speech, words are often misused. This misuse, though slight and unintentional, may be compensated by facial expressions and tone of voice.\n\nWords are used in various forms of writing from formal essays to social media feeds. Many written words do not commonly appear in speech. Writers generally use a limited set of words when communicating. For example, if there are a number of synonyms, a writer may have a preference as to which of them to use, and they are unlikely to use technical vocabulary relating to a subject in which they have no knowledge or interest.\n\nFocal vocabulary is a specialized set of terms and distinctions that is particularly important to a certain group: those with a particular focus of experience or activity. A lexicon, or vocabulary, is a language's dictionary: its set of names for things, events, and ideas. Some linguists believe that lexicon influences people's perception of things, the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis. For example, the Nuer of Sudan have an elaborate vocabulary to describe cattle. The Nuer have dozens of names for cattle because of the cattle's particular histories, economies, and environments. This kind of comparison has elicited some linguistic controversy, as with the number of \"Eskimo words for snow\". English speakers with relevant specialised knowledge can also display elaborate and precise vocabularies for snow and cattle when the need arises.\n\nDuring its infancy, a child instinctively builds a vocabulary. Infants imitate words that they hear and then associate those words with objects and actions. This is the listening vocabulary. The speaking vocabulary follows, as a child's thoughts become more reliant on his/her ability to self-express without relying on gestures or babbling. Once the reading and writing vocabularies start to develop, through questions and education, the child starts to discover the anomalies and irregularities of language.\n\nIn first grade, a child who can read learns about twice as many words as one who cannot. Generally, this gap does not narrow later. This results in a wide range of vocabulary by age five or six, when an English-speaking child will have learned about 1500 words.\n\nVocabulary grows throughout our entire life. Between the ages of 20 and 60, people learn some 6,000 more lemmas, or one every other day. An average 20-year-old knows 42,000 words coming from 11,100 word families; an average 60-year-old knows 48,200 lemmas coming from 13,400 word families. People expand their vocabularies by e.g. reading, playing word games, and participating in vocabulary-related programs. Exposure to traditional print media teaches correct spelling and vocabulary, while exposure to text messaging leads to more relaxed word acceptability constraints.\n\n\nEstimating average vocabulary size poses various difficulties and limitations due to the different definitions and methods employed such as what is the word, what is to know a word, what sample dictionaries were used, how tests were conducted, and so on. Native speakers' vocabularies also vary widely within a language, and are dependent on the level of the speaker's education.\n\nAs a result estimates vary from as little as 10,000 to as many as over 50,000 for young adult native speakers of English.\n\nOne most recent 2016 study shows that 20-year-old English native speakers recognize on average 42,000 lemmas, ranging from 27,100 for the lowest 5% of the population to 51,700 lemmas for the highest 5%. These lemmas come from 6,100 word families in the lowest 5% of the population and 14,900 word families in the highest 5%. 60-year-olds know on average 6,000 lemmas more.\nAccording to another, earlier 1995 study junior-high students would be able to recognize the meanings of about 10,000–12,000 words, whereas for college students this number grows up to about 12,000–17,000 and for elderly adults up to about 17,000 or more.\n\nFor native speakers of German average absolute vocabulary sizes range from 5,900 lemmas in first grade to 73,000 for adults.\n\nThe knowledge of the 3000 most frequent English word families or the 5000 most frequent words provides 95% vocabulary coverage of spoken discourse.\nFor minimal reading comprehension a threshold of 3,000 word families (5,000 lexical items) was suggested and for reading for pleasure 5,000 word families (8,000 lexical items) are required. An \"optimal\" threshold of 8,000 word families yields the coverage of 98% (including proper nouns).\n\nLearning vocabulary is one of the first steps in learning a second language, but a learner never finishes vocabulary acquisition. Whether in one's native language or a second language, the acquisition of new vocabulary is an ongoing process. There are many techniques that help one acquire new vocabulary.\n\nAlthough memorization can be seen as tedious or boring, associating one word in the native language with the corresponding word in the second language until memorized is considered one of the best methods of vocabulary acquisition. By the time students reach adulthood, they generally have gathered a number of personalized memorization methods. Although many argue that memorization does not typically require the complex cognitive processing that increases retention (Sagarra and Alba, 2006), it does typically require a large amount of repetition, and spaced repetition with flashcards is an established method for memorization, particularly used for vocabulary acquisition in computer-assisted language learning. Other methods typically require more time and longer to recall.\n\nSome words cannot be easily linked through association or other methods. When a word in the second language is phonologically or visually similar to a word in the native language, one often assumes they also share similar meanings. Though this is frequently the case, it is not always true. When faced with a false friend, memorization and repetition are the keys to mastery. If a second language learner relies solely on word associations to learn new vocabulary, that person will have a very difficult time mastering false friends. When large amounts of vocabulary must be acquired in a limited amount of time, when the learner needs to recall information quickly, when words represent abstract concepts or are difficult to picture in a mental image, or when discriminating between false friends, rote memorization is the method to use. A neural network model of novel word learning across orthographies, accounting for L1-specific memorization abilities of L2-learners has recently been introduced (Hadzibeganovic and Cannas, 2009).\n\nOne useful method of building vocabulary in a second language is the keyword method. If time is available or one wants to emphasize a few key words, one can create mnemonic devices or word associations. Although these strategies tend to take longer to implement and may take longer in recollection, they create new or unusual connections that can increase retention. The keyword method requires deeper cognitive processing, thus increasing the likelihood of retention (Sagarra and Alba, 2006). This method uses fits within Paivio's (1986) dual coding theory because it uses both verbal and image memory systems. However, this method is best for words that represent concrete and imageable things. Abstract concepts or words that do not bring a distinct image to mind are difficult to associate. In addition, studies have shown that associative vocabulary learning is more successful with younger students (Sagarra and Alba, 2006). Older students tend to rely less on creating word associations to remember vocabulary.\n\nSeveral word lists have been developed to provide people with a limited vocabulary either for the purpose of rapid language proficiency or for effective communication. These include Basic English (850 words), Special English (1,500 words), General Service List (2,000 words), and Academic Word List. Some learner's dictionaries have developed defining vocabularies which contain only most common and basic words. As a result word definitions in such dictionaries can be understood even by learners with a limited vocabulary. Some publishers produce dictionaries based on word frequency or thematic groups.\n\nThe Swadesh list was made for investigation in linguistics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10011626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10011626", "title": "Warli", "text": "Warli\n\nThe Warlis or \"Varli\"s are an indigenous tribe or Adivasis, living in mountainous as well as coastal areas of Maharashtra-Gujarat border and surrounding areas. They have their own animistic beliefs, life, customs and traditions, as a result of acculturation they have adopted many Hindu beliefs. The Warlis speak an unwritten Varli language which belong to the southern zone of the Indo-Aryan languages.\n\nWarlis are found in Jawhar, Mokhada, Dahanu and Talasari talukas of the northern Thane district, parts of Nashik and Dhule districts of Maharashtra, Valsad, Dangs, Navsari and Surat districts of Gujarat, and the union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.\n\nThe Warli speak in Varli language, classified as Konkani, with some degree\nof influence from Gujarati.\n\nWarli language is classified under Marathi by Grierson (Grierson's Linguistic Survey of India) as well as A.M. Ghatage (Warli of Thana, vol.VII of A Survey of Marathi dialects)\n\nIn the book \"The Painted World of the Warlis\" Yashodhara Dalmia claimed that the Warlis carry on a tradition stretching back to 2500 or 3000 BCE. Their mural paintings are similar to those done between 500 and 10,000 BCE in the Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka, in Madhya Pradesh.\n\nEverything about Warli is earthy and soothing. It takes you back to the painting’s provenance where you could almost smell the wet soil, feel the touch of the calloused hand that painted the background and admire meticulous brush stroke of the rural artist who created the master piece. Warli paintings succeed in adding elegance to a rural hut or a five star hotel lobby with the same charm.\n\nNo wonder, designers were so enthralled by this art form, that they decided to create an entire line of dresses based on Warli paintings. Designers have used very traditional patterns, rich and folksy colours to recreate the magic of Warli paintings in her dresses.\n\nTheir extremely rudimentary wall paintings use a very basic graphic vocabulary: a circle, a triangle and a square.Their paintings were monosyllabic. The circle and triangle come from their observation of nature, the circle representing the sun and the moon, the triangle derived from mountains and pointed trees. Only the square seems to obey a different logic and seems to be a human invention, indicating a sacred enclosure or a piece of land. So the central motive in each ritual painting is the square, known as the \"chauk\" or \"chaukat\", mostly of two types: \"Devchauk\" and \"Lagnachauk\". Inside a \"Devchauk\", we find Palaghata, the mother goddess, symbolizing fertility. Significantly, male gods are unusual among the Warli and are frequently related to spirits which have taken human shape. The central motive in these ritual paintings is surrounded by scenes portraying hunting, fishing and farming, festivals and dances, trees and animals. Human and animal bodies are represented by two triangles joined at the tip; the upper triangle depicts the trunk and the lower triangle the pelvis. Their precarious equilibrium symbolizes the balance of the universe, and of the couple, and has the practical and amusing advantage of animating the bodies.\n\nThe pared down pictorial language is matched by a rudimentary technique. The ritual paintings are usually done inside the huts. The walls are made of a mixture of branches, earth and cow dung, making a Red Ochre background for the wall paintings. The Warli use only white for their paintings. Their white pigment is a mixture of rice paste and water with gum as a binding. They use a bamboo stick chewed at the end to make it as supple as a paintbrush. The wall paintings are done only for special occasions such as weddings or harvests. The lack of regular artistic activity explains the very crude style of their paintings, which were the preserve of the womenfolk until the late 1970s. But in the 1970s this ritual art took a radical turn, when Jivya Soma Mashe and his son Balu Mashe started to paint, not for any special ritual, but because of his artistic pursuits. Warli painting also featured in Coca-Cola's 'Come home on Diwali' ad campaign in 2010 was a tribute to the spirit of India’s youth and a recognition of the distinct lifestyle of the Warli tribe of Western India.\n\nWarli Painting is cultural intellectual property of the tribal community. Today, there is an urgent need for preserving this traditional knowledge in tribal communities across the globe. Understanding the need for intellectual property rights, tribal non-profit Organisation \"Adivasi Yuva Seva Sangh\" initiated efforts to start a registration process in 2011. Now, Warli Painting is registered with a Geographical Indication under the intellectual property rights act. With the use of technology and the concept of social entrepreneurship, Tribals established the Warli Art Foundation, a non-profit company dedicated to Warli art and related activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8142297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8142297", "title": "White Genocide", "text": "White Genocide\n\nWhite Genocide ( \"spitak tseghaspanutyun\") is the term used by Armenians to describe the threat of assimilation in the Armenian diaspora, especially in the Western world.\n\nDuring the late 19th century and early 20th century, the Armenians living in their ancestral lands which were then part of the Ottoman Empire were targeted for systematic extermination. From 1894 to 1896, up to 300,000 Armenians were killed in the Hamidian massacres. From 1915 to 1923, the Armenian Genocide took the lives of around 1.5 million Armenians, who were killed by the Ottoman government.\n\nGerman political scientist Christoph Zürcher writes in his 2007 book \"The Post-Soviet Wars: Rebellion, Ethnic Conflict, and Nationhood in the Caucasus\": \n\n\"Genocide\" became a key word, which had several connotations. \"White\" genocide or \"white\" massacre denoted the repression, assimilation, or forced migration of Armenian from their historical lands (which were far larger than Soviet Armenia and included Karabakh, as well as areas belonging to contemporary Turkey).\n\nWestern Armenians consider Armenians who assimilate within the local population of the country where they were eventually forced to emigrate (such as United States, France, Argentina, Brazil, Canada etc.) as lost to their nation due to the continuing exile after the actual genocide itself, and thus consider that lost Armenian to be another victim of the genocidal attempt to eliminate the Armenians.\n\nThe term has also been used by some Armenians to describe the discrimination against Armenians in Nagorno-Karabakh and Nakhichevan, which has caused Armenians to leave their homes. Some have used it for Javakheti region of Georgia.\n\n"}
{"id": "27608024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27608024", "title": "Wiener series", "text": "Wiener series\n\nIn mathematics, the Wiener series (or \"Wiener G-functional expansion\") originates from the 1958 book of Norbert Wiener. It is an orthogonal expansion for nonlinear functionals closely related to the Volterra series and having the same relation to it as an orthogonal Hermite polynomial expansion has to a power series. For this reason it is also known as the \"Wiener-Hermite expansion\". The analogue of the coefficients are referred to as Wiener kernels. The terms of the series are orthogonal (uncorrelated) with respect to a statistical input of white noise. This property allows the terms to be identified in applications by the \"Lee-Schetzen method\".\n\nThe Wiener series is important in nonlinear system identification. In this context, the series approximates the functional relation of the output to the entire history of system input at any time. The Wiener series has been applied mostly to the identification of biological systems, especially in neuroscience.\n\nThe name Wiener series is almost exclusively used in system theory. In the mathematical literature it occurs as the Itô expansion (1951) which has a different form but is entirely equivalent to it. \n\nThe Wiener series should not be confused with the Wiener filter, which is another algorithm developed by Norbert Wiener used in signal processing.\n\nGiven a system with an input/output pair formula_1 where the input is white noise with zero mean value and power A, we can write the output of the system as sum of a series of Wiener G-functionals\nformula_2\n\nIn the following the expressions of the G-functionals up to the fifth order will be given:\n\nformula_3\n\nformula_4\n\nformula_5\n\nformula_6\n\nformula_7\n\nformula_8\n\nformula_9\n\nformula_10\n\nformula_11\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55962827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55962827", "title": "Yellow Ukraine", "text": "Yellow Ukraine\n\nYellow Ukraine (\"Zholty Klyn\") is a historical territory with widespread Ukrainian settlement.\n\nThe settlement of Zholty Klyn (the Yellow Wedge) was founded soon after the Treaty of Pereyaslav of 1659 as the eastern border of the second Zasechnaya Cherta. Named after the yellow steppes on the middle and lower Volga, the colony co-existed with the Volga Cossacks; colonists primarily settled around the city of Saratov. In addition to Ukrainians, Volga Germans and Mordovians migrated to Zholty Klyn in numbers. most of the population is mixed in the region, though a few \"pure\" Ukrainian villages remain.\n\n\n"}
