{"id": "13336554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13336554", "title": "2007 Carancas impact event", "text": "2007 Carancas impact event\n\nThe Carancas impact event refers to the fall of the \"Carancas\" chondritic meteorite on September 15, 2007, near the village of Carancas in Peru, close to the Bolivian border and Lake Titicaca. The impact created a crater and scorched earth around its location. A local official, Marco Limache, said that \"boiling water started coming out of the crater, and particles of rock and cinders were found nearby\", as \"fetid, noxious\" gases spewed from the crater. Surface impact occurred above .\n\nAfter the impact, villagers who had approached the impact site grew sick from a then-unexplained illness, with a wide array of symptoms. Two days later, Peruvian scientists confirmed that there had indeed been a meteorite strike, quieting widespread speculation that it may have been a geophysical rather than a celestial event. At that point, no further information on the cause of the mystery illness was known. The ground water in the local area is known to contain arsenic compounds, and the illness is now believed to have been caused by arsenic poisoning incurred when residents of the area inhaled the vapor of the boiling arsenic-contaminated water.\n\nAt 11:40:14 local time (16:40:14 GMT) on 15 September 2007, a chondritic meteorite crashed near the village of Carancas in the Puno Region, Peru, near the Bolivian border and Lake Titicaca (see map box on right). The impact created a crater larger than deep, wide, with visibly scorched earth around the impact site. A local official, Marco Limache, said that \"boiling water started coming out of the crater, and particles of rock and cinders were found nearby\", as \"fetid, noxious\" gases spewed from the crater. The crater size was given as , with its greatest dimensions in an east-west direction. The fireball had been observed by the locals as strongly luminous with a smoky tail, and seen from just above the ground. The object moved in a direction toward N030E. The small seismic shock of the impact shattered the windows of the local health center away. A smoke column was formed at the site that lasted several minutes, and gas was seen bubbling up in the water in the crater.\n\nOne villager was as close as from the impact site. He fell from his bicycle but was not injured. A small building from the impact site did not suffer much either besides roof damage from flying debris.\n\nSoon after the impact, over 600 villagers visited the site and some began to fall ill from unexplained causes, including symptoms of dermal injuries, nausea, headaches, diarrhea and vomiting. On 20 September, Peruvian scientists confirmed that there had been a meteorite strike, but no further information on the cause of the illnesses was known. Impact crater specialists have called the impact unusual, and have stated that the meteorite was at least in diameter before breaking up. The ground water in the area is known to contain arsenic compounds, and the illness was believed to have been caused by arsenic poisoning incurred when residents of the area inhaled the vapor of the boiling arsenic-contaminated water. \nHowever, further investigations have led to the conclusion that the arsenic content in the groundwater did not differ from that of the local drinking supply, and that the illness reported was likely caused by the vaporization of troilite, a sulfur-bearing compound present within the meteorite in large amounts, which would have melted at relatively low temperatures and high pressures created by such an impact.\n\nAccording to cosmochemist Larry Grossman of the University of Chicago, the aerial lights and explosions reported were consistent with extraterrestrial material.\n\nThe loud noise and explosive impact originally led Peruvians to think that Chile had launched an attack.\n\nA report from three geologists at Peru's Geophysics Institute was released on Thursday 20 September. Astrophysicist Jose Ishitsuka confirmed that there had been a meteorite strike.\n\nOn 20 September, the X-Ray Laboratory at the Faculty of Geological Sciences, Mayor de San Andres University, La Paz, Bolivia, published a report of their analysis of a small sample of material recovered from the impact site. They detected iron, nickel, cobalt, and traces of iridium — elements characteristic of the elemental composition of meteorites. The quantitative proportions of silicon, aluminium, potassium, calcium, magnesium and phosphorus are incompatible with rocks that are normally found at the surface of the Earth.\n\nINGEMMET (\"Instituto Geológico Minero y Metalúrgico\") of Peru released internally on September 21 a report on the Carancas meteorite fall. The release of the document to the public was delayed for one week. The researchers found that the fragments from the crater zone had a chondritic texture and the following mineral composition: pyroxene (1) 40%, olivine 20%, feldspar 10%, pyroxene (2) 10%; kamacite 15%, troilite 5%, and traces of chromite and native copper. Kamacite occurs naturally only in meteorites.\n\nThe official classification of the Carancas meteorite, accepted by the Meteoritical Society, was done by a team of scientists working at the University of Arizona. The meteorite is an ordinary chondrite, an H chondrite breccia, containing clasts of petrologic types 4 to 5. The formal classification is H4-5.\n\nThe meteoroid had experienced a considerable amount of shock before its ultimate encounter with Earth.\n\nFurther results are expected, and material is also going to be studied by NASA, British and Japanese researchers according to media reports.\n\nAfterwards, local townspeople went to see what happened, and 100 to 200 people who got near to the meteorite crater soon reported feeling sick. First responding police officers arriving to investigate the scene also fell ill. After the initial event of September 15, the number of people falling ill increased, requiring physicians to establish auxiliary medical tents for the Carancas health center. Patients were treated for dermal injuries, nausea, headaches, diarrhea and vomiting. The death of nearby livestock was also reported. Locals made the decision to stop drinking from nearby water sources for fear of contamination and authorities considered declaring a state of emergency. Four days after the meteorite impact and the unexplained illness, most villagers reported having recovered.\n\nReported details about the event, such as water boiling in the muddy crater for ten minutes from the heat of the impact, presented a problem for experts. Because the impact site is at a high altitude of more than , the meteoroid may not have been slowed down as much as it ordinarily would have been by passage through the Earth's denser lower atmosphere, and kinetic energy at impact may have been unusually high for a terrestrial impact of an object of this size and mass. Most larger meteorites are cold in their bulk mass when they land on Earth, since their heated outer layers ablate from the objects before impacting. It was later confirmed that the meteorite contained a large amount of iron and possessed magnetic properties common to similar metallic objects, which contributed to its capacity to retain heat during atmospheric entry.\n\nIn contrast with other international media reports, Peruvian health officials downplayed the incident. Jorge López Tejada, the Regional Health Director for Puno, Peru, denied any serious medical situation existed. However, a health brigade arrived with personnel and medication to the site on 18 September, reporting that the odors rising from the crater were causing medical issues. Earlier, Tejada had stated that the officers were dizzy, nauseous and some were vomiting.\n\nOn 19 September, Andina, Peru's official government news agency, reported that the sick villagers appeared to be recovering somewhat. \"They are recovering, there aren't any critical cases. A total of 200 people with different symptoms have been seen,\" stated López Tejada. Government officials also specifically asked people to avoid the \"glowing object that fell from the sky.\"\n\nScientists initially ruled out radiation as the cause of the illness. Renan Ramirez of the Peruvian Nuclear Energy Institute stated that the medical conditions could have been caused by sulfur, arsenic or other toxins that may have melted in the extreme heat produced by the meteorite strike. Some unnamed Peruvian sources stated soon after the event occurred that it was indeed a meteorite. Later on 18 September, a Peruvian vulcanologist stated that the impact was caused by a chondrite meteorite arrival.\n\nSome reports indicated initial suspicions that the illnesses may have been psychosomatic in nature. Don Yeomans, head of the Near Earth Object Program at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, said, \"Statistically, it's far more likely to have come from below than from above. The noxious fumes that have supposedly sickened curious locals who went to examine the crater would seem to indicate hydrothermal activity, such as a local gas explosion, because meteorites don't give off odors.\"\n\nBy 21 September, it was believed that the illness was caused by arsenic poisoning. Luisa Macedo of Peru's Mining, Metallurgy, and Geology Institute said gases were created when the meteorite's hot surface reacted with an underground water supply tainted with arsenic. Natural arsenic deposits in ground water are not uncommon in southern Peru. José Ishitsuka of the Peruvian Geophysics Institute said, \"If the meteorite arrives incandescent and at a high temperature because of ram pressure, hitting water can create a column of steam.\"Meteorites, however, often impact the earth at low temperatures, making this an unusual event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10851420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10851420", "title": "AGILE (satellite)", "text": "AGILE (satellite)\n\nAGILE (Astro‐Rivelatore Gamma a Immagini Leggero) is an X-ray and Gamma ray astronomical satellite of the Italian Space Agency (ASI).\n\nAGILE's mission is to observe gamma-ray sources in the universe. Key scientific objectives of the AGILE Mission include the study of:\n\nAGILE's instrumentation includes a Gamma Ray Imaging Detector (GRID) sensitive in the 30 MeV - 50 GeV energy range, a SuperAGILE (SA) hard X-ray monitor sensitive in the 18–60 keV energy range, a Mini-Calorimeter (MCAL) non-imaging gamma-ray scintillation detector sensitive in the 350 keV - 100 MeV energy range, and an Anti-coincidence System (AC), based on a plastic scintillator, to assist with suppressing unwanted background events.\n\nThe SuperAGILE SA is an instrument based on a set of four silicon strip detectors, each equipped with one-dimensional coded mask. The SA is designed to detect X-Ray signals from known sources and burst-like signals. It provides long-term monitoring of flux and spectral features. MCAL can also effectively detect high-energy radiation bursts in its energy band.\n\nAGILE was successfully launched on 23 April 2007, from the Indian base of Sriharikota and was inserted in an equatorial orbit with low particle background. On 23 April 2007, ASI made contact with AGILE; its signals were acquired by the ground station at the Broglio Space Centre near Malindi, Kenya and it was placed in a Sun-pointing mode.\n\nSome transient events detected by AGILE are associated with positions not consistent with a known source (Gamma Ray Burst) and have cosmological origins. Others are due to solar flares, while some are due to Earth atmosphere events (Terrestrial Gamma Flash).\n\n"}
{"id": "3813656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3813656", "title": "Armenian bole", "text": "Armenian bole\n\nArmenian bole, also known as bolus armenus or bole armoniac, is an earthy clay, usually red, native to Armenia. It is red due to the presence of iron oxide; the clay also contains hydrous silicates of aluminum and possibly magnesium.\n\nHistorically, it was used as an astringent, prescribed against diarrhea, dysentery, hemorrhage, etc. Externally, it was used in strengthening plasters, against dislocations of the joints. Physicians sometimes also called it \"Rubrica Synopica\", from the city of Synope, where it is supposed to be found.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, it was incorporated into non-soluble tooth powder. These types of powders would get stuck between the gums and the teeth and leave an unsightly discoloration. As a result, they were coloured red using Armenian bole to disguise the buildup around the teeth.\n\nIt is also used in bookbinding for coloring, or applied to the edges during gilding, as a base for the gold leaf and to give the binding a greater depth and luster. In pottery, it is used as a red pigment for the İznik pottery of Turkey. Finally, it has also been used in the waterproofing of windmill sails. A popular mixture was: 10 liters of water, combined with 0.75 liter linseed oil, 0.75 liter grease, and 1 kg of bolus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24362112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24362112", "title": "Ascension scrub and grasslands", "text": "Ascension scrub and grasslands\n\nThe Ascension scrub and grasslands ecoregion covers the dormant volcano, Ascension Island in the Atlantic Ocean. As well as shrubs and grasses wildlife on the island includes a range of unique flora and fauna. In particular the surrounding islets are important havens for many seabirds, although the seabird populations on Ascension island itself have been severely affected by introduced species, particularly cats.\n\nAscension Island lies in the Atlantic near the equator, 1700 km off the coast of Africa. The island still bears relics of its volcanic history including lava fields and cinder. Ascension is 97 km, with a population of approximately 900. The residents are mainly employees and their families, often on short term contracts with the Ascension Island Government, the military (Royal Air Force and United States Air Force) and commercial operations. The majority of food and other goods are imported from the UK and South Africa. The Royal Mail Ship brings in supplies from St Helena on a regular basis. The USAF air service provides links with Florida and Antigua. The UK Ministry of Defence air service provides links with the Falkland Islands and the UK.\n\nThere were never many trees on the island, which is covered by either desert or grass and shrub including some endemic: \"Euphorbia origanoides\", \"Marattia purpurascens\", \"Asplenium ascensionis\", \"Xiphopteris ascensionense\", \"Pteris adscensionis\", \"Sporobolus caespitosus\" and \"Anogramma ascensionis\".\n\nMost of the vegetation on Ascension Island today has been introduced by humans. Some of these species have spread dramatically and now occur throughout the Island. Approximately 25 species of plant are native and ten of these are considered to be endemic (unique) to Ascension. None of the remaining endemic species are common and their ranges have been reduced due to their inability to compete with the introduced species. The Ascension Island Conservation Department are working in collaboration with the Royal Botanic Garden, Kew on an OTEP (Overseas Territories Environmental Programme) funded Endemic Plants project. Experts from the UK Overseas Territories Team at Kew advise on propagation techniques, ex-situ cultivation and the re-introduction of endangered species. Horticultural protocols for each species are to be outlined, these will be used to improve local collections and further develop ex-situ plant collections. The protocols require a lot of trial and error work to identify the most successful propagation methods for the endemic plants. Stedson Stroud has already successfully cultivated in large numbers three of the endemic species, \"Pteris adscensionis\", \"Euphorbia origanoides\" and \"Sporobolus caespitosus\". The clearing of invasive species on Green Mountain has created a restoration site for the reintroduction of endemic species on the mountain. The project work focuses on increasing the number of endemic species growing in cultivation and introducing these into the restoration areas. \n\nSpurge (\"Euphorbia origanoides\")\nThis is the only endemic lowland plant in Ascension. It suffers from encroaching invasive vegetation as well as feeding by introduced animals. Rats seek it for moisture in its stems and roots, and insect pests also cause concern. The species is now limited to the most remote desert areas of the Island.\n\nAscension Island is one of the most important warm-water seabird breeding sites in the tropical Atlantic. It supports over 400,000 seabirds of 11 species. The present size of the seabird populations are only a fraction of those found before the colonisation by man in 1815 and the subsequent introduction of feral cats to the Island. The Ascension Island Conservation Department, in partnership with the RSPB began a Seabird Restoration Project in 2001. The project was implemented by the Ascension Island Government, and assisted by the RSPB with funding from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. Feral cats were eradicated from the Island, allowing the seabirds to return to nest on the mainland. The last known feral cat was found in February 2004, since then a feral cat monitoring programme has been taking place. Since the eradication of the feral cats the nesting success rate has improved and there are more birds in an increasing number of locations. \n\nToday the main breeding site is on nearby rat-free Boatswain Bird Island. Over 10,000 birds breed on this tiny island, which is home to fairy tern (\"Gygis alba\"), Ascension frigatebirds, masked booby, brown booby, red-footed booby, red-billed tropicbird and white-tailed tropicbirds (known as boatswain birds), and petrels. The sooty tern, known locally as the wideawake tern because of its distinctive call, is the most common breeding seabird on the main island, and the airport is named after it. The Ascension rail is extinct.\n\nAscension frigatebird (\"Fregata aquilana\")\nOf the many seabird colonising Ascension's shores, the endemic frigatebird is the most impressive. Due to predation by cats these birds are now found on Boatswainbird Island, but as feral cats have been eradicated from Ascension, it is hoped they will soon follow the other seabirds back to the main Island.\n\nGiant pseudoscorpion (\"Garypus giganteus\")\nAscension is home to a remarkable pseudoscorpion fauna. The most impressive of these tailless scorpion-like creatures is the giant pseudoscorpion, largest of its kind. Predation by rodents and invertebrates on the mainland has limited its distribution to the very isolated Boatswainbird Island, where it lives alongside the endemic frigatebird.\n\nGreen turtles (\"Chelonia mydas\")\nAscension holds the second largest breeding site for the green turtle in the Atlantic. This species is dependent on sandy beaches to lay their eggs, and the beaches require regular clearing of invasive plants. Apart from the native landcrabs and endemic frigates, the hatchlings are now taken by mynas.\n\nSince its discovery in 1501 a number of plants and animals have been introduced by settlers on the island, there are no native mammals to the islands and several of the introduced species have gone feral. Cats in particular have been a threat to the seabird populations and steps are now being taken to reduce the populations of both cats and rats in order to encourage the return of breeding seabirds. Meanwhile, the Mexican thorn bush (\"Prosopis juliflora\"), another introduced species, has become a serious impediment to the breeding turtles, who lay their eggs on the beaches, and housing development on the island threatens many habitats.\n\nInvasive species\n\nMexican thorn (\"Prosopis juliflora\")\nThis shrub was introduced to stabilise land near new buildings in Two Boats village during the 1960s. It now forms a thick shrubland in drier parts of the Island. It has completely replaced the native vegetation in these areas and threatens bird grounds as well as turtle laying beaches.\n\nGuava (\"Psidium guajava\")\nGuava is best known as a refreshing fruit, however, unfortunately on Ascension the fruit it not harvested due to its acidity. Guava causes significant problems in fragile environments such as Ascension Island. This species is one of the first shrubs to cover over sparsely vegetated areas. It can tolerate both hot desert areas as well as cool moist mountain air, and forms thickets that compete with native plants for water and light.\n\nKoster's curse (\"Clidemia hirta\")\nThis is one of the species that now occurs where a carpet of native and endemic ferns used to grow on Green Mountain. Along with many other introduced species it is capable of growing even in the last rocks which have so far acted as fern sanctuaries.\n\nCommon myna (\"Acridotheres tristis\")\nMyna birds were introduced as a way of tackling parasites on cattle, now absent from Ascension. They are opportunistic feeders and now feed on sooty tern eggs, turtle eggs and fruits of invasive species, acting as a dispersal agent. They are also noisy and clever pests in gardens, eating fruit and vegetables.\n\nBlack rat (\"Rattus rattus\")\nThe black rat arrived to Ascension early in the Island's history and they are still the only species of rat here. They abound in all parts of the Island, feeding on endemic as well as introduced plants, preying on small animals and competing with land crabs.\n\nThreatened habitat - mountain vegetation\nThe Green Mountain summit was once covered in a carpet of ferns with many endemic plants. Hardly any of this carpet now exists due to intensive efforts to increase vegetation in the mountain. Few small rocks still hold a number of endemic species, but even these areas are quickly being overwhelmed by invasive plants. Grazing animals also contribute to loss of native plants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57769652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57769652", "title": "BRICSat-P", "text": "BRICSat-P\n\nBRICSat-P or OSCAR 83 previously known as PSat-B, is a U.S. technology demonstration satellite and an amateur radio satellite for Packet Radio. BRICSat-P (Ballistic Reinforced Communication Satellite) is a low cost 1.5U CubeSat built by the U.S. Naval Academy Satellite Lab in collaboration with George Washington University, that will demonstrate on-orbit operation of a Micro-Cathode Arc Thruster (µCAT) electric propulsion system and carries an amateur communication payload.\n\nA four µCAT thruster head system was placed on one side of the spacecraft around the center of gravity and will de-tumble the satellite from its initial expulsion, demonstrate rotational control about 2 axes, and perform a delta-V end of life scenario. Orbital analyses performed indicate that the four thruster-head system is able to fit in a 1.5U Cubesat with low power consumption such that other subsystems such as communication systems can perform normally. Dynamics analysis has been performed in MATLAB Simulink and STK that shows the thrusters can successfully perform the attitude control maneuvers. The project is fully funded and scheduled to launch in March 2015.\n\nBRICSat has 2 amateur communication payload on boards: APRS constellation transponder with downlink on 437.975 MHz and with uplink on 145.825 MHz 1k2 and 9k6 AX25 PSK31 transponder with a 28.120 MHz uplink (2.5 kHz bandwidth) and a UHF FM downlink.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5901970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5901970", "title": "Bear River State Park", "text": "Bear River State Park\n\nBear River State Park is a public recreation area straddling the Bear River on the east side of the city of Evanston, Wyoming. The state park was established in 1991 and is managed by Wyoming Division of State Parks and Historic Sites.\n\nThe park offers picnicking and a visitors center. Wildlife viewing includes a small herd of captive bison and elk. The park is at the eastern terminus of the Bear River Greenway, a trail system developed by the city that connects the park with downtown Evanston. Other hiking opportunities include of paved trail, an arched footbridge that crosses the river, and of packed gravel trails. Trails are used for cross-country skiing in winter. Park events include the annual Bear River Rendezvous held the weekend before Labor Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "770455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=770455", "title": "Bog iron", "text": "Bog iron\n\nBog iron is a form of impure iron deposit that develops in bogs or swamps by the chemical or biochemical oxidation of iron carried in solution. In general, bog ores consist primarily of iron oxyhydroxides, commonly goethite (FeO(OH)).\n\nIron-bearing groundwater typically emerges as a spring. The iron is oxidized to ferric hydroxide upon encountering the oxidizing environment of the surface. Bog ore often combines goethite, magnetite, and vugs or stained quartz. Oxidation may occur through enzyme catalysis by iron bacteria. It is not clear whether the magnetite precipitates upon first contact with oxygen, then oxidizes to ferric compounds, or whether the ferric compounds are reduced when exposed to anoxic conditions upon burial beneath the sediment surface and reoxidized upon exhumation at the surface.\nIron made from bog ore will often contain residual silicates, which can form a glassy coating that imparts some resistance to rusting.\nIron smelting from bog iron was invented during the Pre-Roman Iron Age, and most Viking era iron was smelted from bog iron. The bog iron deposits of Northern and Northeastern Europe were created after the Ice Age ended, on postglacial plains. The dominant source of iron ore in Scandinavia and Russia into the Middle Ages was bog-ore. Even after improved smelting technology made mined ores viable during the Middle Ages, bog ore remained important, particularly to peasant iron production, into modern times. In Russia, bog ore was the principal source of iron until the 16th century, when the superior ores of the Ural Mountains became available.\n\n\"Streams carry dissolved iron from nearby mountains. In the bog, the iron is concentrated by two processes. The bog environment is acidic, with a low concentration of dissolved oxygen. In the acidic environment of the bog, a chemical reaction forms insoluble iron compounds which precipitate out. But more importantly, anaerobic bacteria (\"Gallionella\" and \"Leptothrix\") growing under the surface of the bog concentrate the iron as part of their life processes...Their presence can be detected on the surface by the iridescent oily film they leave on the water ... another sure sign of bog iron. In Iceland, the film is called jarnbrák (iron slick). When a layer of peat in the bog is cut and pulled back using turf knives, pea sized nodules of bog iron can be found and harvested. Although the iron nodules are reasonably pure, there aren't many of them. They are, however, a renewable resource. About once each generation, the same bog can be re-harvested.\"\n\nIron may have been produced by Vikings at L’Anse aux Meadows, Point Rosee and other locations in Newfoundland around 1000 AD.\n\nBog iron was widely sought in colonial North America. The earliest known iron mines in North America are the mines from St. John's, Newfoundland, reported to be in operation by Anthony Parkhurst in 1578. The first mining efforts in Virginia occurred as early as 1608. In 1619 Falling Creek Ironworks was established in Chesterfield County, Virginia. It was the location of the first blast furnace facility in North America.\n\nLake Massapoag in Massachusetts was drawn down by deepening the outlet channel in a search for bog iron. The Saugus Iron Works National Historic Site, on the Saugus River in Saugus, Massachusetts, operated between 1646 and 1668. The site contains a museum and several reconstructed buildings. The success of the Saugus Iron Works, and the rapid depletion of the region's natural bog iron, led the owners to send prospectors into the surrounding countryside. In 1658 the company bought of land which covered areas that are now Concord, Acton, and Sudbury. They set up a large production facility in Concord, Massachusetts, along the Assabet River with dams, ponds, watercourses, and hearths, but by 1694 the natural bog iron there had also been exhausted, and the land was sold for farming.\n\nIn Central and Southern New Jersey, bog ore was mined and refined for the production of naturally rust-resistant tools and wrought iron rails, many of which still grace staircases in Trenton and Camden. During the American Revolution, bog iron cannonballs were cast for the colonial forces.\n\nBog iron was also found on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. The remains of a commercial smelting operation near Snow Hill, Maryland, are now a state and national historic site. Known as Furnace Town, it was called the Nassawango Iron Furnace after the nearby creek. The commercial furnace ran from about 1825 to 1850.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4767041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4767041", "title": "Chief Mountain", "text": "Chief Mountain\n\nChief Mountain (\"Blackfoot: Ninaistako\") () is located in the U.S. state of Montana on the eastern border of Glacier National Park and the Blackfeet Indian Reservation. The mountain is one of the most prominent peaks and rock formations along the Rocky Mountain Front, a long overthrust fault, known as the Lewis Overthrust, which extends from central Montana into southern Alberta, Canada.\n\nThe peak is easily seen from Montana and Alberta due to the rapid altitude gain over the Great Plains which are immediately east of the mountain. \n\nChief Mountain is an example of a klippe. It consists of a Precambrian block which rests directly above much younger Cretaceous gray shales. The 600 million year old Precambrian rocks are 400-500 million years older than the Cretaceous rocks at the base of the mountain.\n\nHaving an older layer of rock juxtaposed atop younger basement rocks is found on occasion in thrust faults and is commonplace along the Lewis Overthrust which extends from central Montana to far southern Alberta. The surrounding portion of the thrust sheet has been removed by erosion leaving behind this and a few other isolated blocks of Proterozoic rock.\n\nChief Mountain has been a sacred mountain to Native American tribes for hundreds of years. The Blackfoot name for the mountain is Nínaiistáko. The mountain was seen by white explorers in the late 18th century and was known as \"Kings Peak\" on maps produced in the United Kingdom in 1795. The name was changed in the late 19th century in reflection of Blackfeet naming of the mountain which was \"Great Chief\". When Glacier National Park was created in 1910, the summit and most prominent eastern slopes of the mountain were located within the park, leaving only the lower slopes within Blackfeet jurisdiction. \n\nChief Mountain remains sacred to many First Nations peoples from both the U.S. and Canada. Natives from all over North America travel to the base of the mountain for sweet grass ceremonies, placing of prayer flags and other religious rites. In the early 1900s as white settlers came to the area, they observed native burial sites scattered along the base of the mountain. Elders from Southern Alberta's Siksika Band (where the Great Chief Crowfoot hailed from) and other First Nation groups have an oral tradition that near the end of days, a \"Great White God\" would appear from the top of Chief Mountain and upon his departure, the mountain would crumble and be destroyed.\n\nThe eastern face of the mountain rises over vertically and the easiest route on this section is rated class 4 by mountaineers. The rock is also primarily sedimentary and provides poor anchor points, which in turn is a contributing factor to the difficulty rating. Henry Stimson and two other explorers, including a Blackfeet Indian, climbed the difficult eastern face on September 8, 1892, and this is the first known ascent of the peak by white explorers. Upon the summit, Stimson's party observed ceremonial remains including bison skulls that had been left behind by Native Americans. The eastern face of the peak was not successfully climbed again until 1951. Though the summit can be gained by approaching from the west, the easiest access is from the east, and the Blackfeet tribe may issue access permits to cross reservation lands. This entire area is sacred to the Blackfeet Native Americans. National Park Service visitor centers at St. Mary, Montana and at Many Glacier have additional information available.\n\n"}
{"id": "8453893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8453893", "title": "Claimed moons of Earth", "text": "Claimed moons of Earth\n\nClaims of the existence of other moons of Earth—that is, of one or more natural satellites other than the Moon that orbit Earth—have existed for some time. Several candidates have been proposed, but none has been confirmed. Since the 19th century, scientists have made genuine searches for more moons, but the possibility has also been the subject of a number of dubious non-scientific speculations as well as a number of likely hoaxes.\n\nAlthough the Moon is Earth's only natural satellite, there are a number of near-Earth objects (NEOs) with orbits that are in resonance with Earth. These have been called, inaccurately but provocatively, \"second\", \"third\" or \"other\" moons of Earth.\n\n, an asteroid discovered on 27 April 2016, is possibly the most stable quasi-satellite of Earth. As it orbits the Sun, appears to circle around Earth as well. It is too distant to be a true satellite of Earth, but is the best and most stable example of a quasi-satellite, a type of near-Earth object. They appear to orbit a point other than Earth itself, such as the orbital path of the NEO asteroid 3753 Cruithne. Earth trojans, such as , are NEOs that orbit the Sun (not Earth) on the same orbital path as Earth, and appear to lead or follow Earth along the same orbital path.\n\nOther small natural objects in orbit around the Sun may enter orbit around Earth for a short amount of time, becoming temporary natural satellites. , the only confirmed example has been in Earth orbit during 2006 and 2007, though further instances are already predicted.\n\nThe first major claim of another moon of Earth was made by French astronomer Frédéric Petit, director of the Toulouse Observatory, who in 1846 announced that he had discovered a second moon in an elliptical orbit around Earth.\n\nIt was claimed to have also been reported by Lebon and Dassier at Toulouse, and by Larivière at Artenac Observatory, during the early evening of March 21, 1846.\n\nPetit proposed that this second moon had an elliptical orbit, a period of 2 hours 44 minutes, with apogee and perigee. This claim was soon dismissed by his peers. The perigee is similar to the cruising altitude of most modern airliners, and within Earth's atmosphere. Petit published another paper on his 1846 observations in 1861, basing the second moon's existence on perturbations in movements of the actual Moon. This second moon hypothesis was not confirmed either.\n\nPetit's proposed moon became a plot point in Jules Verne's 1870 science fiction novel \"Around the Moon\".\n\nIn 1898 Hamburg scientist Dr. Georg Waltemath announced that he had located a system of tiny moons orbiting Earth. He had begun his search for secondary moons based on the hypothesis that something was gravitationally affecting the Moon's orbit.\n\nWaltemath described one of the proposed moons as being from Earth, with a diameter of , a 119-day orbital period, and a 177-day synodic period. He also said it did not reflect enough sunlight to be observed without a telescope, unless viewed at certain times, and made several predictions of its next appearances. \"Sometimes, it shines at night like the sun but only for an hour or so.\"\n\nE. Stone Wiggins, a Canadian weather expert, ascribed the cold spring of 1907 to the effect of a second moon, which he said he had first seen in 1882 and had publicized the find in 1884 in the New York Tribune when he put it forward as probable cause of an anomalous solar eclipse of May of that year. He said it was also probably the \"green crescent moon\" seen in New Zealand and later in North America in 1886, for periods of less than a half-hour each time. He said this was the \"second moon\" seen by Waltemath in 1898. Wiggins hypothesized that the second moon had a high carbon atmosphere but could be seen occasionally by its reflected light.\n\nThe existence of these objects put forward by Waltemath (and Wiggins) was discredited after the absence of corroborating observation by other members of the scientific community. Especially problematic was a failed prediction that they would be seen in February 1898.\n\nThe August 1898 issue of \"Science\" mentioned that Waltemath had sent the journal \"an announcement of a third moon\", which he termed a \"wahrhafter Wetter und Magnet Mond\" (\"real weather and magnet moon\"). It was supposedly in diameter, and closer than the \"second moon\" that he had seen previously.\n\nIn 1918, astrologer Walter Gornold, also known as \"Sepharial\", claimed to have confirmed the existence of Waltemath's moon. He named it Lilith. Sepharial claimed that Lilith was a 'dark' moon invisible for most of the time, but he claimed to be the first person in history to view it as it crossed the Sun.\n\nIn 1926 the science journal \"Die Sterne\" published the findings of amateur German astronomer W. Spill, who claimed to have successfully viewed a second moon orbiting Earth.\n\nIn the late 1960s John Bargby claimed to have observed over ten small natural satellites of Earth, but this was not confirmed.\n\nWilliam Henry Pickering (1858–1938) studied the possibility of a second moon and made a general search ruling out the possibility of many types of objects by 1903. His 1922 article \"A Meteoritic Satellite\" in \"Popular Astronomy\" resulted in increased searches for small natural satellites by amateur astronomers. Pickering had also proposed the Moon itself had broken off from Earth.\n\nIn early 1954 the United States Army's Office of Ordnance Research commissioned Clyde Tombaugh, discoverer of Pluto, to search for near-Earth asteroids. The Army issued a public statement to explain the rationale for this survey. Donald Keyhoe, who was later director of the National Investigations Committee on Aerial Phenomena (NICAP), a UFO research group, said that his Pentagon source had told him that the actual reason for the quickly initiated search was that two near-Earth objects had been picked up on new long-range radar in mid-1953. In May 1954, Keyhoe asserted that the search had been successful, and either one or two objects had been found. At The Pentagon, a general who heard the news reportedly asked whether the satellites were natural or artificial. Tombaugh denied the alleged discovery in a letter to Willy Ley, and the October 1955 issue of \"Popular Mechanics\" magazine reported:\nAt a meteor conference in Los Angeles in 1957, Tombaugh reiterated that his four-year search for natural satellites had been unsuccessful. In 1959, he issued a final report stating that nothing had been found in his search.\n\nIt was discovered that small bodies can be temporarily captured, as shown by , which was in Earth orbit in 2006–2007.\n\nIn 2010, the first known Earth trojan was discovered in data from Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE), and is currently called .\n\nIn 2011, planetary scientists Erik Asphaug and Martin Jutzi proposed a model in which a second moon would have existed 4.5 billion years ago, and later impacted the Moon, as a part of the accretion process in the formation of the Moon.\n\nAlthough no other moons of Earth have been found to date, there are various types of near-Earth objects in 1:1 resonance with it, which are known as quasi-satellites. Quasi-satellites orbit the Sun from the same distance as a planet, rather than the planet itself. Their orbits are unstable, and will fall into other resonances or be kicked into other orbits over thousands of years. Quasi-satellites of Earth include , ,\nand 3753 Cruithne. Cruithne, discovered in 1986, orbits the Sun in an elliptical orbit but appears to have a horseshoe orbit when viewed from Earth. Some went as far to nickname Cruithne \"Earth's second moon\".\n\nThe key difference between a satellite and a quasi-satellite is that the orbit of a satellite of Earth fundamentally depends on the gravity of the Earth–Moon system, whereas the orbit of a quasi-satellite would negligibly change if Earth and the Moon were suddenly removed because a quasi-satellite is orbiting the Sun on an Earth-like orbit in the vicinity of Earth.\n\nEarth possesses one known trojan, a small Solar System body caught in the planet's gravitationally stable Lagrangian point. This object, is roughly 300 metres across. Like quasi-satellites, it orbits the Sun in a 1:1 resonance with Earth, rather than Earth itself.\n\nOn 14 September 2006, an object estimated at 5 meters in diameter was discovered in near-polar orbit around Earth. Originally thought to be a third-stage Saturn S-IVB booster from Apollo 12, it was later determined to be an asteroid and designated as . The asteroid re-entered Solar orbit after 13 months and is expected to return to Earth orbit after 21 years.\n\nComputer models by astrophysicists Mikael Granvik, Jeremie Vaubaillon, and Robert Jedicke suggest that these \"temporary satellites\" should be quite common; and that \"At any given time, there should be at least one natural Earth satellite of 1-meter diameter orbiting the Earth.\" Such objects would remain in orbit for ten months on average, before returning to solar orbit once more, and so would make relatively easy targets for manned space exploration. \"Mini-moons\" were further examined in a study published in the journal \"Icarus\".\n\nThe earliest known mention in the scientific literature of a temporarily captured orbiter is by Clarence Chant about the Meteor procession of February 9, 1913:\n\nAnd later in 1916, William Frederick Denning surmised:\n\nIt has been proposed that NASA search for temporary natural satellites, and use them for a sample return mission.\n\nIn April 2015, an object was discovered orbiting the Earth, and initially designated , but more detailed investigation quickly showed the object to be the Gaia spacecraft, and the object's discovery soon was retracted.\n\nOn October 3, 2015, a small object, temporarily designated WT1190F, was found to be orbiting the Earth every ~23 days, and had been orbiting since at least late 2009. It impacted the Earth on November 13, 2015 at 06:18:34.3 (±1.3 seconds) UTC.\n\nOn February 8, 2016 a 0.5-meter object was discovered orbiting the Earth with a period of 5 days and given the temporary designation XC83E0D, and most likely lost. The object was later identified with the lost artificial satellite SR-11A, or possibly its companion SR-11B, which were launched in 1976 and lost in 1979.\n\nOn April 8, 2016, an object, given the temporary designation S509356, was discovered with an orbital period of 3.58 days. Although it has the typical area-to-mass ratio (m^2/kg) of satellites, it has a color typical of S-type asteroids. It was later identified as the Yuanzheng-1 stage from the launch of Chinese navigation satellites.\n\nOn December 8, 2017, the object YX205B9 was discovered with an orbital period of 21 days, on an eccentric orbit taking it from slightly beyond the geocentric satellite ring to almost twice the distance of the Moon. It was later identified as the booster stage from the Chang'e 2 mission.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19145743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19145743", "title": "Coal slurry", "text": "Coal slurry\n\nCoal slurry is a mixture of solids (mined coal) and liquids (usually water) produced by a coal preparation plant. As a slurry, coal is separated from non-combustable components (ash) and can be fractionated by particle size as well. Coal slurry can be transferred by pipeline or with specialised pumps such as a progressive cavity pump to pump the highly abrasive, corrosive and viscous coal slurry.\n\nThe scale of water usage and hence potential costs and problems is large. More than 7 billion tons of coal are mined per year (2010), using approximately 200 litres of water per ton.\n\nIdeally, coal slurry consists only of crushed coal and water, which can be separated perfectly at low cost. In practice, the separation is significantly costly(citation needed). Furthermore, the slurry consists also of very fine coal dust that results in a waste called blackwater, which is stored in large impoundment ponds, often together with coal ash. Such ponds are susceptible to disastrous releases, such as the Buffalo Creek flood of 1972. This impounded liquid waste can sometimes total billions of gallons in a single facility. \n\n"}
{"id": "14184070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14184070", "title": "David Elliott (professor)", "text": "David Elliott (professor)\n\nDavid Elliott is Professor of Technology Policy at the Open University. He has created several courses in Design and Innovation, with special emphasis on how the innovation development process can be directed towards sustainable technologies. Professor Elliott's main research interests include the development of sustainable energy technologies, particularly renewable energy systems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1712257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1712257", "title": "David Fleay", "text": "David Fleay\n\nDavid Howells Fleay AM MBE (; 6 January 1907 in Ballarat, Victoria – 7 August 1993) was an Australian naturalist who pioneered the captive breeding of endangered species, and was the first person to breed the platypus (\"Ornithorhynchus anatinus\") in captivity.\n\nFleay had an aesthetic upbringing: His mother, Maude Edith Victoria Fleay, had studied painting under Fred McCubbin; his father, William Henry Fleay, was a manufacturing chemist in Ballarat. After education at a state primary school and later a private high school, Ballarat Grammar School, Fleay was first employed in his father's chemist shop and then was briefly a teacher at Ballarat Grammar.\n\nHe left for Melbourne in 1927 to study for a Bachelor of Science degree and Diploma of Education at Melbourne University. There, he met another student, Mary Sigrid Collie, and they married in 1931, the same year that Fleay graduated having majored in zoology, botany and education. He was employed as a teacher in Ballarat until 1934.\n\nFleay's interest in the natural world coincided with the awakening of scientific interest in endangered species, and the realisation by the public that Australian animals were worthy of attention other than as a source of food.\n\nHe realised the importance of endangered species early in his career when, in 1933, he was the last person to photograph a captive thylacine or Tasmanian tiger at the Hobart Zoo. In the process he was bitten on the buttocks, the scar from the injury carried proudly throughout his life.\n\nIn 1934, Fleay was asked to design and establish the Australian animal section at Melbourne Zoo, and worked there for 4 years. During this time he had several scientific achievements, including the first breeding in captivity of the emu, several bird species including the tawny frogmouth, and marsupials including the koala. He also commenced research into the breeding habits of the platypus. His next public education efforts were nature talks on a Melbourne radio station, in 1937. Later that year, disagreements with the zoo's management came to a head and Fleay was dismissed, principally because of his belief that native birds and animals should be fed what they would eat in the wild.\n\nIn 1962 Fleay co-founded the Wildlife Preservation Society of Queensland with Judith Wright, Brian Clouston and Kathleen McArthur.\n\nCoincidentally, the Healesville Sanctuary some 90 km from Melbourne was in need of a director and he was appointed. The animals there included quolls, Tasmanian devils, dingoes and various birds of prey, to which he added tiger snakes that were milked for antivenene, and platypus. Many animals were housed in large paddock-like areas with swing-weighted gates so that visitors could freely interact with the animals. He also conducted daily 'feeding' displays of the platypuses.\n\nHis greatest achievement at Healesville was in 1943, when he bred the first platypus in captivity. His platypusary (platypus enclosure) incorporated features of their native streams. On about 5 November 1943, \"Corrie\" was born. No-one other than Fleay successfully bred and reared a platypus until 1998 when Healseville Sanctuary again had success. Since then, breeding has occurred only twice more: at Healesville and Taronga Zoo (twins).\n\nBetween 1945–1947, Fleay led an expedition to Tasmania in an attempt to capture a breeding pair of thylacines, however he returned empty handed.\n\nIn 1947, he took three platypuses to New York for the Bronx Zoo where they occupied a platypusary built to his specifications. He studied animal husbandry at various zoos and wildlife sanctuaries across the US, returning to Healesville in October to discover that the Board had dismissed him for supposed unauthorised donations of animals to various foreign zoos. While untrue, this caused considerable hurt: He was demoted and remained at Healesville as a consultant.\n\nHe was also keeping a private collection of animals, but in 1951 the Government of Victoria legislated to prevent private individuals from charging fees for the public to see animal collections. This caused him to decide to move the collection.\n\nAfter extensive research, the Tallebudgera Estuary in the hinterland behind Burleigh on the Gold Coast in Queensland was selected, the reasons including that it offered an untouched natural habitat for koalas apart from already having cleared areas (then farmland) for development of animal enclosures. The Fleays gradually acquired land and by 1958 had enclosures for people to see platypuses, snakes, dingoes, plain turkeys, ospreys, crocodiles and alligators; in contrast, bandicoots, flying foxes, sea eagles, wallabies and koalas, were free to visit from adjoining the forest. However, his focus was on the scientific study of the animals.\n\nThe area also included middens used by earlier generations of the Gold Coast's Kombumerri Aboriginal people. Fleay retained these heritage areas, and maintained good relationships with the Kombumerri.\n\nThe animals were fed partly from donations from local bakers and butchers, with local residents donating dead animals to feed the owls (or the goannas if no longer fresh); mice and rats were collected frequently from the McKerras Research Institute behind the hospital; worms were collected fresh daily for the platypuses; eels, pigeons and flying foxes were also killed to provide food for the owls, snakes and crocodiles.\n\nInjured or sick animals from as far away as New Guinea and Central Queensland were accommodated at the sanctuary. Those that lived were kept for research or breeding; native animals, when recovered, were released into the wild; deceased animals were fed to the survivors.\n\nIn 1982, 37 acres (150,000 m²) of the land owned by David and Sigrid Fleay was sold to the Queensland Government and became a Conservation Park. The following year, the 20 acre (81,000 m²) main Fauna Reserve with its animal enclosures was also sold to the Government. The remainder of the site 7.5 acres (30,000 m²) was transferred in 1985. Under the terms of this arrangement, David and Sigrid Fleay continued to live and work at the park: In 1983 it closed for 5 years for redevelopment and re-opened in 1988. The government retains the property as the David Fleay Wildlife Park.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37323654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37323654", "title": "Deiopea (Cyrenid)", "text": "Deiopea (Cyrenid)\n\nDēĭŏpēa () is one of Juno's twice seven nymphs, she is the wondrous beauty. She is described in the Virgil's Aeneid as being \"praestanti corpore\", i.e., having an excellent body. Juno promises her in marriage to the king of the winds, Aeolus, in return for his help in shipwrecking the Trojan refugees.\n\n"}
{"id": "18955999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18955999", "title": "Desert", "text": "Desert\n\nA desert is a barren area of landscape where little precipitation occurs and consequently living conditions are hostile for plant and animal life. The lack of vegetation exposes the unprotected surface of the ground to the processes of denudation. About one third of the land surface of the world is arid or semi-arid. This includes much of the polar regions where little precipitation occurs and which are sometimes called polar deserts or \"cold deserts\". Deserts can be classified by the amount of precipitation that falls, by the temperature that prevails, by the causes of desertification or by their geographical location.\n\nDeserts are formed by weathering processes as large variations in temperature between day and night put strains on the rocks which consequently break in pieces. Although rain seldom occurs in deserts, there are occasional downpours that can result in flash floods. Rain falling on hot rocks can cause them to shatter and the resulting fragments and rubble strewn over the desert floor is further eroded by the wind. This picks up particles of sand and dust and wafts them aloft in sand or dust storms. Wind-blown sand grains striking any solid object in their path can abrade the surface. Rocks are smoothed down, and the wind sorts sand into uniform deposits. The grains end up as level sheets of sand or are piled high in billowing sand dunes. Other deserts are flat, stony plains where all the fine material has been blown away and the surface consists of a mosaic of smooth stones. These areas are known as desert pavements and little further erosion takes place. Other desert features include rock outcrops, exposed bedrock and clays once deposited by flowing water. Temporary lakes may form and salt pans may be left when waters evaporate. There may be underground sources of water in the form of springs and seepages from aquifers. Where these are found, oases can occur.\n\nPlants and animals living in the desert need special adaptations to survive in the harsh environment. Plants tend to be tough and wiry with small or no leaves, water-resistant cuticles and often spines to deter herbivory. Some annual plants germinate, bloom and die in the course of a few weeks after rainfall while other long-lived plants survive for years and have deep root systems able to tap underground moisture. Animals need to keep cool and find enough food and water to survive. Many are nocturnal and stay in the shade or underground during the heat of the day. They tend to be efficient at conserving water, extracting most of their needs from their food and concentrating their urine. Some animals remain in a state of dormancy for long periods, ready to become active again when the rare rains fall. They then reproduce rapidly while conditions are favorable before returning to dormancy.\n\nPeople have struggled to live in deserts and the surrounding semi-arid lands for millennia. Nomads have moved their flocks and herds to wherever grazing is available and oases have provided opportunities for a more settled way of life. The cultivation of semi-arid regions encourages erosion of soil and is one of the causes of increased desertification. Desert farming is possible with the aid of irrigation and the Imperial Valley in California provides an example of how previously barren land can be made productive by the import of water from an outside source. Many trade routes have been forged across deserts, especially across the Sahara Desert, and traditionally were used by caravans of camels carrying salt, gold, ivory and other goods. Large numbers of slaves were also taken northwards across the Sahara. Some mineral extraction also takes place in deserts and the uninterrupted sunlight gives potential for the capture of large quantities of solar energy.\n\nEnglish \"desert\" and its Romance cognates (including Italian and Portuguese \"deserto\", French \"désert\" and Spanish \"desierto\") all come from the ecclesiastical Latin \"dēsertum\" (originally \"an abandoned place\"), a participle of \"dēserere\", \"to abandon\". The correlation between aridity and sparse population is complex and dynamic, varying by culture, era, and technologies; thus the use of the word \"desert\" can cause confusion. In English before the 20th century, \"desert\" was often used in the sense of \"unpopulated area\", without specific reference to aridity; but today the word is most often used in its climate-science sense (an area of low precipitation). Phrases such as \"desert island\" and \"Great American Desert\", or Shakespeare's \"deserts of Bohemia\" (\"The Winter's Tale\") in previous centuries did not necessarily imply sand or aridity; their focus was the sparse population.\n\nA desert is a region of land that is very dry because it receives low amounts of precipitation (usually in the form of rain but may be snow, mist or fog), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside the area. Deserts generally receive less than of precipitation each year. The potential evapotranspiration may be large but (in the absence of available water) the actual evapotranspiration may be close to zero. Semideserts are regions which receive between and when clad in grass, these are known as steppes.\n\nDeserts have been defined and classified in a number of ways, generally combining total precipitation, number of days on which this falls, temperature, and humidity, and sometimes additional factors. For example, Phoenix, Arizona, receives less than of precipitation per year, and is immediately recognized as being located in a desert because of its aridity-adapted plants. The North Slope of Alaska's Brooks Range also receives less than of precipitation per year and is often classified as a cold desert. Other regions of the world have cold deserts, including areas of the Himalayas and other high-altitude areas in other parts of the world. Polar deserts cover much of the ice-free areas of the Arctic and Antarctic. A non-technical definition is that deserts are those parts of the Earth's surface that have insufficient vegetation cover to support a human population.\n\nPotential evapotranspiration supplements the measurement of precipitation in providing a scientific measurement-based definition of a desert. The water budget of an area can be calculated using the formula \"P\" − \"PE\" ± \"S\", wherein \"P\" is precipitation, \"PE\" is potential evapotranspiration rates and \"S\" is amount of surface storage of water. Evapotranspiration is the combination of water loss through atmospheric evaporation and through the life processes of plants. Potential evapotranspiration, then, is the amount of water that \"could\" evaporate in any given region. As an example, Tucson, Arizona receives about of rain per year, however about of water could evaporate over the course of a year. In other words, about eight times more water could evaporate from the region than actually falls as rain. Rates of evapotranspiration in cold regions such as Alaska are much lower because of the lack of heat to aid in the evaporation process.\n\nDeserts are sometimes classified as \"hot\" or \"cold\", \"semiarid\" or \"coastal\". The characteristics of hot deserts include high temperatures in summer; greater evaporation than precipitation usually exacerbated by high temperatures, strong winds and lack of cloud cover; considerable variation in the occurrence of precipitation, its intensity and distribution; and low humidity. Winter temperatures vary considerably between different deserts and are often related to the location of the desert on the continental landmass and the latitude. Daily variations in temperature can be as great as or more, with heat loss by radiation at night being increased by the clear skies.\nCold deserts, sometimes known as temperate deserts, occur at higher latitudes than hot deserts, and the aridity is caused by the dryness of the air. Some cold deserts are far from the ocean and others are separated by mountain ranges from the sea and in both cases there is insufficient moisture in the air to cause much precipitation. The largest of these deserts are found in Central Asia. Others occur on the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains, the eastern side of the southern Andes and in southern Australia. Polar deserts are a particular class of cold desert. The air is very cold and carries little moisture so little precipitation occurs and what does fall, usually as snow, is carried along in the often strong wind and may form blizzards, drifts and dunes similar to those caused by dust and sand in other desert regions. In Antarctica, for example, the annual precipitation is about on the central plateau and some ten times that amount on some major peninsulas.\n\nBased on precipitation alone, hyperarid deserts receive less than of rainfall a year; they have no annual seasonal cycle of precipitation and experience twelve-month periods with no rainfall at all. Arid deserts receive between in a year and semiarid deserts between . However, such factors as the temperature, humidity, rate of evaporation and evapotranspiration, and the moisture storage capacity of the ground have a marked effect on the degree of aridity and the plant and animal life that can be sustained. Rain falling in the cold season may be more effective at promoting plant growth, and defining the boundaries of deserts and the semiarid regions that surround them on the grounds of precipitation alone is problematic.\n\nA semi-arid desert or a steppe is a version of the arid desert with much more rainfall, vegetation and higher humidity. These regions feature a semi-arid climate and are less extreme than regular deserts. Like arid deserts, temperatures can vary greatly in semi deserts. They share some characteristics of a true desert and are usually located at the edge of deserts and continental dry areas. They usually receive precipitation from 250 mm (10 in) to 500 mm (20 in) but this can vary due to evapotranspiration and soil nutrition. Semi deserts can be found in the Tabernas Desert (and some of the Spanish Plateau), The Sahel, The Eurasian Steppe, most of Central Asia, the Western US, most of Northern Mexico, portions of South America (especially in Argentina) and the Australian Outback. They usually feature \"BSh\" (hot steppe) or \"BSk\" (temperate steppe) in the Köppen climate classification.\n\nCoastal deserts are mostly found on the western edges of continental land masses in regions where cold currents approach the land or cold water upwellings rise from the ocean depths. The cool winds crossing this water pick up little moisture and the coastal regions have low temperatures and very low rainfall, the main precipitation being in the form of fog and dew. The range of temperatures on a daily and annual scale is relatively low, being and respectively in the Atacama Desert. Deserts of this type are often long and narrow and bounded to the east by mountain ranges. They occur in Namibia, Chile, southern California and Baja California. Other coastal deserts influenced by cold currents are found in Western Australia, the Arabian Peninsula and Horn of Africa, and the western fringes of the Sahara.\n\nIn 1961, Peveril Meigs divided desert regions on Earth into three categories according to the amount of precipitation they received. In this now widely accepted system, extremely arid lands have at least twelve consecutive months without precipitation, arid lands have less than 250 mm (10 in) of annual precipitation, and semiarid lands have a mean annual precipitation of between 250 and 500 mm (10–20 in). Both extremely arid and arid lands are considered to be deserts while semiarid lands are generally referred to as steppes when they are grasslands.\nDeserts are also classified, according to their geographical location and dominant weather pattern, as trade wind, mid-latitude, rain shadow, coastal, monsoon, or polar deserts. Trade wind deserts occur either side of the horse latitudes at 30° to 35° North and South. These belts are associated with the subtropical anticyclone and the large-scale descent of dry air moving from high-altitudes toward the poles. The Sahara Desert is of this type. Mid-latitude deserts occur between 30° and 50° North and South. They are mostly in areas remote from the sea where most of the moisture has already precipitated from the prevailing winds. They include the Tengger and Sonoran Deserts. Monsoon deserts are similar. They occur in regions where large temperature differences occur between sea and land. Moist warm air rises over the land, deposits its water content and circulates back to sea. Further inland, areas receive very little precipitation. The Thar Desert near the India/Pakistan border is of this type.\n\nIn some parts of the world, deserts are created by a rain shadow effect. Orographic lift occurs as air masses rise to pass over high ground. In the process they cool and lose much of their moisture by precipitation on the windward slope of the mountain range. When they descend on the leeward side, they warm and their capacity to hold moisture increases so an area with relatively little precipitation occurs. The Taklamakan Desert is an example, lying in the rain shadow of the Himalayas and receiving less than precipitation annually.\nOther areas are arid by virtue of being a very long way from the nearest available sources of moisture.\n\nMontane deserts are arid places with a very high altitude; the most prominent example is found north of the Himalayas, in the Kunlun Mountains and the Tibetan Plateau. Many locations within this category have elevations exceeding and the thermal regime can be hemiboreal. These places owe their profound aridity (the average annual precipitation is often less than 40 mm or 1.5 in) to being very far from the nearest available sources of moisture and are often in the lee of mountain ranges. Montane deserts are normally cold, or may be scorchingly hot by day and very cold by night as is true of the northeastern slopes of Mount Kilimanjaro.\n\nPolar deserts such as McMurdo Dry Valleys remain ice-free because of the dry katabatic winds that flow downhill from the surrounding mountains. Former desert areas presently in non-arid environments, such as the Sandhills in Nebraska, are known as paleodeserts. In the Köppen climate classification system, deserts are classed as \"BWh\" (hot desert) or \"BWk\" (temperate desert). In the Thornthwaite climate classification system, deserts would be classified as arid megathermal climates.\n\nDeserts usually have a large diurnal and seasonal temperature range, with high daytime temperatures falling sharply at night. The diurnal range may be as much as and the rock surface experiences even greater temperature differentials. During the day the sky is usually clear and most of the sun's radiation reaches the ground, but as soon as the sun sets, the desert cools quickly by radiating heat into space. In hot deserts, the temperature during daytime can exceed in summer and plunge below freezing point at night during winter.\nSuch large temperature variations have a destructive effect on the exposed rocky surfaces. The repeated fluctuations put a strain on exposed rock and the flanks of mountains crack and shatter. Fragmented strata slide down into the valleys where they continue to break into pieces due to the relentless sun by day and chill by night. Successive strata are exposed to further weathering. The relief of the internal pressure that has built up in rocks that have been underground for aeons can cause them to shatter. Exfoliation also occurs when the outer surfaces of rocks split off in flat flakes. This is believed to be caused by the stresses put on the rock by repeated expansions and contractions which induces fracturing parallel to the original surface. Chemical weathering processes probably play a more important role in deserts than was previously thought. The necessary moisture may be present in the form of dew or mist. Ground water may be drawn to the surface by evaporation and the formation of salt crystals may dislodge rock particles as sand or disintegrate rocks by exfoliation. Shallow caves are sometimes formed at the base of cliffs by this means.\n\nAs the desert mountains decay, large areas of shattered rock and rubble occur. The process continues and the end products are either dust or sand. Dust is formed from solidified clay or volcanic deposits whereas sand results from the fragmentation of harder granites, limestone and sandstone. There is a certain critical size (about 0.5 mm) below which further temperature-induced weathering of rocks does not occur and this provides a minimum size for sand grains.\n\nAs the mountains are eroded, more and more sand is created. At high wind speeds, sand grains are picked up off the surface and blown along, a process known as saltation. The whirling airborne grains act as a sand blasting mechanism which grinds away solid objects in its path as the kinetic energy of the wind is transferred to the ground. The sand eventually ends up deposited in level areas known as sand-fields or sand-seas, or piled up in dunes.\n\nSand and dust storms are natural events that occur in arid regions where the land is not protected by a covering of vegetation. Dust storms usually start in desert margins rather than the deserts themselves where the finer materials have already been blown away. As a steady wind begins to blow, fine particles lying on the exposed ground begin to vibrate. At greater wind speeds, some particles are lifted into the air stream. When they land, they strike other particles which may be jerked into the air in their turn, starting a chain reaction. Once ejected, these particles move in one of three possible ways, depending on their size, shape and density; suspension, saltation or creep. Suspension is only possible for particles less than 0.1 mm (0.004 in) in diameter. In a dust storm, these fine particles are lifted up and wafted aloft to heights of up to . They reduce visibility and can remain in the atmosphere for days on end, conveyed by the trade winds for distances of up to . Denser clouds of dust can be formed in stronger winds, moving across the land with a billowing leading edge. The sunlight can be obliterated and it may become as dark as night at ground level. In a study of a dust storm in China in 2001, it was estimated that 6.5 million tons of dust were involved, covering an area of . The mean particle size was 1.44 μm. A much smaller scale, short-lived phenomenon can occur in calm conditions when hot air near the ground rises quickly through a small pocket of cooler, low-pressure air above forming a whirling column of particles, a dust devil.\nSandstorms occur with much less frequency than dust storms. They are often preceded by severe dust storms and occur when the wind velocity increases to a point where it can lift heavier particles. These grains of sand, up to about in diameter are jerked into the air but soon fall back to earth, ejecting other particles in the process. Their weight prevents them from being airborne for long and most only travel a distance of a few meters (yards). The sand streams along above the surface of the ground like a fluid, often rising to heights of about . In a really severe steady blow, is about as high as the sand stream can rise as the largest sand grains do not become airborne at all. They are transported by creep, being rolled along the desert floor or performing short jumps.\n\nDuring a sandstorm, the wind-blown sand particles become electrically charged. Such electric fields, which range in size up to 80 kV/m, can produce sparks and cause interference with telecommunications equipment. They are also unpleasant for humans and can cause headaches and nausea. The electric fields are caused by collision between airborne particles and by the impacts of saltating sand grains landing on the ground. The mechanism is little understood but the particles usually have a negative charge when their diameter is under 250 μm and a positive one when they are over 500 μm.\n\nDeserts take up about one third of the Earth's land surface.\nBottomlands may be salt-covered flats. Eolian processes are major factors in shaping desert landscapes. Polar deserts (also seen as \"cold deserts\") have similar features, except the main form of precipitation is snow rather than rain. Antarctica is the world's largest cold desert (composed of about 98% thick continental ice sheet and 2% barren rock). Some of the barren rock is to be found in the so-called Dry Valleys of Antarctica that almost never get snow, which can have ice-encrusted saline lakes that suggest evaporation far greater than the rare snowfall due to the strong katabatic winds that even evaporate ice.\n\nDeserts, both hot and cold, play a part in moderating the Earth's temperature. This is because they reflect more of the incoming light and their albedo is higher than that of forests or the sea.\n\nMany people think of deserts as consisting of extensive areas of billowing sand dunes because that is the way they are often depicted on TV and in films, but deserts do not always look like this. Across the world, around 20% of desert is sand, varying from only 2% in North America to 30% in Australia and over 45% in Central Asia. Where sand does occur, it is usually in large quantities in the form of sand sheets or extensive areas of dunes.\n\nA sand sheet is a near-level, firm expanse of partially consolidated particles in a layer that varies from a few centimeters to a few meters thick. The structure of the sheet consists of thin horizontal layers of coarse silt and very fine to medium grain sand, separated by layers of coarse sand and pea-gravel which are a single grain thick. These larger particles anchor the other particles in place and may also be packed together on the surface so as to form a miniature desert pavement. Small ripples form on the sand sheet when the wind exceeds 24 km/h (15 mph). They form perpendicular to the wind direction and gradually move across the surface as the wind continues to blow. The distance between their crests corresponds to the average length of jumps made by particles during saltation. The ripples are ephemeral and a change in wind direction causes them to reorganise.\nSand dunes are accumulations of windblown sand piled up in mounds or ridges. They form downwind of copious sources of dry, loose sand and occur when topographic and climatic conditions cause airborne particles to settle. As the wind blows, saltation and creep take place on the windward side of the dune and individual grains of sand move uphill. When they reach the crest, they cascade down the far side. The upwind slope typically has a gradient of 10° to 20° while the lee slope is around 32°, the angle at which loose dry sand will slip. As this wind-induced movement of sand grains takes place, the dune moves slowly across the surface of the ground. Dunes are sometimes solitary, but they are more often grouped together in dune fields. When these are extensive, they are known as sand seas or ergs.\n\nThe shape of the dune depends on the characteristics of the prevailing wind. Barchan dunes are produced by strong winds blowing across a level surface, and are crescent-shaped with the concave side away from the wind. When there are two directions from which winds regularly blow, a series of long, linear dunes known as seif dunes may form. These also occur parallel to a strong wind that blows in one general direction. Transverse dunes run at a right angle to the prevailing wind direction. Star dunes are formed by variable winds, and have several ridges and slip faces radiating from a central point. They tend to grow vertically; they can reach a height of , making them the tallest type of dune. Rounded mounds of sand without a slip face are the rare dome dunes, found on the upwind edges of sand seas.\nA large part of the surface area of the world's deserts consists of flat, stone-covered plains dominated by wind erosion. In \"eolian deflation\", the wind continually removes fine-grained material, which becomes wind-blown sand. This exposes coarser-grained material, mainly pebbles with some larger stones or cobbles, leaving a desert pavement, an area of land overlaid by closely packed smooth stones forming a tessellated mosaic. Different theories exist as to how exactly the pavement is formed. It may be that after the sand and dust is blown away by the wind the stones jiggle themselves into place; alternatively, stones previously below ground may in some way work themselves to the surface. Very little further erosion takes place after the formation of a pavement, and the ground becomes stable. Evaporation brings moisture to the surface by capillary action and calcium salts may be precipitated, binding particles together to form a desert conglomerate. In time, bacteria that live on the surface of the stones accumulate a film of minerals and clay particles, forming a shiny brown coating known as desert varnish.\n\nOther non-sandy deserts consist of exposed outcrops of bedrock, dry soils or aridisols, and a variety of landforms affected by flowing water, such as alluvial fans, sinks or playas, temporary or permanent lakes, and oases. A hamada is a type of desert landscape consisting of a high rocky plateau where the sand has been removed by aeolian processes. Other landforms include plains largely covered by gravels and angular boulders, from which the finer particles have been stripped by the wind. These are called \"reg\" in the western Sahara, \"serir\" in the eastern Sahara, \"gibber plains\" in Australia and \"saï\" in central Asia. The Tassili Plateau in Algeria is an impressive jumble of eroded sandstone outcrops, canyons, blocks, pinnacles, fissures, slabs and ravines. In some places the wind has carved holes or arches and in others it has created mushroom-like pillars narrower at the base than the top. In the Colorado Plateau it is water that has been the eroding force. Here the Colorado River has cut its way over the millennia through the high desert floor creating a canyon that is over a mile (6,000 feet or 1,800 meters) deep in places, exposing strata that are over two billion year old.\n\nOne of the driest places on Earth is the Atacama Desert. It is virtually devoid of life because it is blocked from receiving precipitation by the Andes mountains to the east and the Chilean Coast Range to the west. The cold Humboldt Current and the anticyclone of the Pacific are essential to keep the dry climate of the Atacama. The average precipitation in the Chilean region of Antofagasta is just per year. Some weather stations in the Atacama have never received rain. Evidence suggests that the Atacama may not have had any significant rainfall from 1570 to 1971. It is so arid that mountains that reach as high as are completely free of glaciers and, in the southern part from 25°S to 27°S, may have been glacier-free throughout the Quaternary, though permafrost extends down to an altitude of and is continuous above . Nevertheless, there is some plant life in the Atacama, in the form of specialist plants that obtain moisture from dew and the fogs that blow in from the Pacific.\nWhen rain falls in deserts, as it occasionally does, it is often with great violence. The desert surface is evidence of this with dry stream channels known as arroyos or wadis meandering across its surface. These can experience flash floods, becoming raging torrents with surprising rapidity after a storm that may be many kilometers away. Most deserts are in basins with no drainage to the sea but some are crossed by exotic rivers sourced in mountain ranges or other high rainfall areas beyond their borders. The River Nile, the Colorado River and the Yellow River do this, losing much of their water through evaporation as they pass through the desert and raising groundwater levels nearby. There may also be underground sources of water in deserts in the form of springs, aquifers, underground rivers or lakes. Where these lie close to the surface, wells can be dug and oases may form where plant and animal life can flourish. The Nubian Sandstone Aquifer System under the Sahara Desert is the largest known accumulation of fossil water. The Great Man-Made River is a scheme launched by Libya's Colonel Gadaffi to tap this aquifer and supply water to coastal cities. Kharga Oasis in Egypt is long and is the largest oasis in the Libyan Desert. A lake occupied this depression in ancient times and thick deposits of sandy-clay resulted. Wells are dug to extract water from the porous sandstone that lies underneath. Seepages may occur in the walls of canyons and pools may survive in deep shade near the dried up watercourse below.\n\nLakes may form in basins where there is sufficient precipitation or meltwater from glaciers above. They are usually shallow and saline, and wind blowing over their surface can cause stress, moving the water over nearby low-lying areas. When the lakes dry up, they leave a crust or hardpan behind. This area of deposited clay, silt or sand is known as a playa. The deserts of North America have more than one hundred playas, many of them relics of Lake Bonneville which covered parts of Utah, Nevada and Idaho during the last ice age when the climate was colder and wetter. These include the Great Salt Lake, Utah Lake, Sevier Lake and many dry lake beds. The smooth flat surfaces of playas have been used for attempted vehicle speed records at Black Rock Desert and Bonneville Speedway and the United States Air Force uses Rogers Dry Lake in the Mojave Desert as runways for aircraft and the space shuttle.\n\nPlants face severe challenges in arid environments. Problems they need to solve include how to obtain enough water, how to avoid being eaten and how to reproduce. Photosynthesis is the key to plant growth. It can only take place during the day as energy from the sun is required, but during the day, many deserts become very hot. Opening stomata to allow in the carbon dioxide necessary for the process causes evapotranspiration, and conservation of water is a top priority for desert vegetation. Some plants have resolved this problem by adopting crassulacean acid metabolism, allowing them to open their stomata during the night to allow CO to enter, and close them during the day, or by using C4 carbon fixation.\n\nMany desert plants have reduced the size of their leaves or abandoned them altogether. Cacti are desert specialists and in most species the leaves have been dispensed with and the chlorophyll displaced into the trunks, the cellular structure of which has been modified to allow them to store water. When rain falls, the water is rapidly absorbed by the shallow roots and retained to allow them to survive until the next downpour, which may be months or years away. The giant saguaro cacti of the Sonoran Desert form \"forests\", providing shade for other plants and nesting places for desert birds. Saguaro grow slowly but may live for up to two hundred years. The surface of the trunk is folded like a concertina, allowing it to expand, and a large specimen can hold eight tons of water after a good downpour.\n\nCacti are present in both North and South America with a post-Gondwana origin. Other xerophytic plants have developed similar strategies by a process known as convergent evolution. They limit water loss by reducing the size and number of stomata, by having waxy coatings and hairy or tiny leaves. Some are deciduous, shedding their leaves in the driest season, and others curl their leaves up to reduce transpiration. Others store water in succulent leaves or stems or in fleshy tubers. Desert plants maximize water uptake by having shallow roots that spread widely, or by developing long taproots that reach down to deep rock strata for ground water. The saltbush in Australia has succulent leaves and secretes salt crystals, enabling it to live in saline areas. In common with cacti, many have developed spines to ward off browsing animals.\n\nSome desert plants produce seed which lies dormant in the soil until sparked into growth by rainfall. When annuals, such plants grow with great rapidity and may flower and set seed within weeks, aiming to complete their development before the last vestige of water dries up. For perennial plants, reproduction is more likely to be successful if the seed germinates in a shaded position, but not so close to the parent plant as to be in competition with it. Some seed will not germinate until it has been blown about on the desert floor to scarify the seed coat. The seed of the mesquite tree, which grows in deserts in the Americas, is hard and fails to sprout even when planted carefully. When it has passed through the gut of a pronghorn it germinates readily, and the little pile of moist dung provides an excellent start to life well away from the parent tree. The stems and leaves of some plants lower the surface velocity of sand-carrying winds and protect the ground from erosion. Even small fungi and microscopic plant organisms found on the soil surface (so-called \"cryptobiotic soil\") can be a vital link in preventing erosion and providing support for other living organisms. Cold deserts often have high concentrations of salt in the soil. Grasses and low shrubs are the dominant vegetation here and the ground may be covered with lichens. Most shrubs have spiny leaves and shed them in the coldest part of the year.\n\nAnimals adapted to live in deserts are called xerocoles. There is no evidence that body temperature of mammals and birds is adaptive to the different climates, either of great heat or cold. In fact, with a very few exceptions, their basal metabolic rate is determined by body size, irrespective of the climate in which they live. Many desert animals (and plants) show especially clear evolutionary adaptations for water conservation or heat tolerance and so are often studied in comparative physiology, ecophysiology, and evolutionary physiology. One well-studied example is the specializations of mammalian kidneys shown by desert-inhabiting species. Many examples of convergent evolution have been identified in desert organisms, including between cacti and Euphorbia, kangaroo rats and jerboas, \"Phrynosoma\" and \"Moloch\" lizards.\nDeserts present a very challenging environment for animals. Not only do they require food and water but they also need to keep their body temperature at a tolerable level. In many ways birds are the most able to do this of the higher animals. They can move to areas of greater food availability as the desert blooms after local rainfall and can fly to faraway waterholes. In hot deserts, gliding birds can remove themselves from the over-heated desert floor by using thermals to soar in the cooler air at great heights. In order to conserve energy, other desert birds run rather than fly. The cream-colored courser flits gracefully across the ground on its long legs, stopping periodically to snatch up insects. Like other desert birds it is well-camouflaged by its coloring and can merge into the landscape when stationary. The sandgrouse is an expert at this and nests on the open desert floor dozens of kilometers (miles) away from the waterhole it needs to visit daily. Some small diurnal birds are found in very restricted localities where their plumage matches the color of the underlying surface. The desert lark takes frequent dust baths which ensures that it matches its environment.\n\nWater and carbon dioxide are metabolic end products of oxidation of fats, proteins, and carbohydrates. Oxidising a gram of carbohydrate produces 0.60 grams of water; a gram of protein produces 0.41 grams of water; and a gram of fat produces 1.07 grams of water, making it possible for xerocoles to live with little or no access to drinking water. The kangaroo rat for example makes use of this water of metabolism and conserves water both by having a low basal metabolic rate and by remaining underground during the heat of the day, reducing loss of water through its skin and respiratory system when at rest. Herbivorous mammals obtain moisture from the plants they eat. Species such as the addax antelope, dik-dik, Grant's gazelle and oryx are so efficient at doing this that they apparently never need to drink. The camel is a superb example of a mammal adapted to desert life. It minimizes its water loss by producing concentrated urine and dry dung, and is able to lose 40% of its body weight through water loss without dying of dehydration. Carnivores can obtain much of their water needs from the body fluids of their prey. Many other hot desert animals are nocturnal, seeking out shade during the day or dwelling underground in burrows. At depths of more than , these remain at between regardless of the external temperature. Jerboas, desert rats, kangaroo rats and other small rodents emerge from their burrows at night and so do the foxes, coyotes, jackals and snakes that prey on them. Kangaroos keep cool by increasing their respiration rate, panting, sweating and moistening the skin of their forelegs with saliva. Mammals living in cold deserts have developed greater insulation through warmer body fur and insulating layers of fat beneath the skin. The arctic weasel has a metabolic rate that is two or three times as high as would be expected for an animal of its size. Birds have avoided the problem of losing heat through their feet by not attempting to maintain them at the same temperature as the rest of their bodies, a form of adaptive insulation. The emperor penguin has dense plumage, a downy under layer, an air insulation layer next the skin and various thermoregulatory strategies to maintain its body temperature in one of the harshest environments on Earth.\nBeing ectotherms, reptiles are unable to live in cold deserts but are well-suited to hot ones. In the heat of the day in the Sahara, the temperature can rise to . Reptiles cannot survive at this temperature and lizards will be prostrated by heat at . They have few adaptations to desert life and are unable to cool themselves by sweating so they shelter during the heat of the day. In the first part of the night, as the ground radiates the heat absorbed during the day, they emerge and search for prey. Lizards and snakes are the most numerous in arid regions and certain snakes have developed a novel method of locomotion that enables them to move sidewards and navigate high sand-dunes. These include the horned viper of Africa and the sidewinder of North America, evolutionarily distinct but with similar behavioural patterns because of convergent evolution. Many desert reptiles are ambush predators and often bury themselves in the sand, waiting for prey to come within range.\n\nAmphibians might seem unlikely desert-dwellers, because of their need to keep their skins moist and their dependence on water for reproductive purposes. In fact, the few species that are found in this habitat have made some remarkable adaptations. Most of them are fossorial, spending the hot dry months aestivating in deep burrows. While there they shed their skins a number of times and retain the remnants around them as a waterproof cocoon to retain moisture. In the Sonoran Desert, Couch's spadefoot toad spends most of the year dormant in its burrow. Heavy rain is the trigger for emergence and the first male to find a suitable pool calls to attract others. Eggs are laid and the tadpoles grow rapidly as they must reach metamorphosis before the water evaporates. As the desert dries out, the adult toads rebury themselves. The juveniles stay on the surface for a while, feeding and growing, but soon dig themselves burrows. Few make it to adulthood. The water holding frog in Australia has a similar life cycle and may aestivate for as long as five years if no rain falls. The Desert rain frog of Namibia is nocturnal and survives because of the damp sea fogs that roll in from the Atlantic.\nInvertebrates, particularly arthropods, have successfully made their homes in the desert. Flies, beetles, ants, termites, locusts, millipedes, scorpions and spiders have hard cuticles which are impervious to water and many of them lay their eggs underground and their young develop away from the temperature extremes at the surface. The Saharan silver ant (\"Cataglyphis bombycina\") uses a heat shock protein in a novel way and forages in the open during brief forays in the heat of the day. The long-legged darkling beetle in Namibia stands on its front legs and raises its carapace to catch the morning mist as condensate, funnelling the water into its mouth. Some arthropods make use of the ephemeral pools that form after rain and complete their life cycle in a matter of days. The desert shrimp does this, appearing \"miraculously\" in new-formed puddles as the dormant eggs hatch. Others, such as brine shrimps, fairy shrimps and tadpole shrimps, are cryptobiotic and can lose up to 92% of their bodyweight, rehydrating as soon as it rains and their temporary pools reappear.\n\nHumans have long made use of deserts as places to live, and more recently have started to exploit them for minerals and energy capture. Deserts play a significant role in human culture with an extensive literature.\n\nPeople have been living in deserts for millennia. Many, such as the Bushmen in the Kalahari, the Aborigines in Australia and various tribes of North American Indians, were originally hunter-gatherers. They developed skills in the manufacture and use of weapons, animal tracking, finding water, foraging for edible plants and using the things they found in their natural environment to supply their everyday needs. Their self-sufficient skills and knowledge were passed down through the generations by word of mouth. Other cultures developed a nomadic way of life as herders of sheep, goats, cattle, camels, yaks, llamas or reindeer. They travelled over large areas with their herds, moving to new pastures as seasonal and erratic rainfall encouraged new plant growth. They took with them their tents made of cloth or skins draped over poles and their diet included milk, blood and sometimes meat.\nThe desert nomads were also traders. The Sahara is a very large expanse of land stretching from the Atlantic rim to Egypt. Trade routes were developed linking the Sahel in the south with the fertile Mediterranean region to the north and large numbers of camels were used to carry valuable goods across the desert interior. The Tuareg were traders and the goods transported traditionally included slaves, ivory and gold going northwards and salt going southwards. Berbers with knowledge of the region were employed to guide the caravans between the various oases and wells. Several million slaves may have been taken northwards across the Sahara between the 8th and 18th centuries. Traditional means of overland transport declined with the advent of motor vehicles, shipping and air freight, but caravans still travel along routes between Agadez and Bilma and between Timbuktu and Taoudenni carrying salt from the interior to desert-edge communities.\n\nRound the rims of deserts, where more precipitation occurred and conditions were more suitable, some groups took to cultivating crops. This may have happened when drought caused the death of herd animals, forcing herdsmen to turn to cultivation. With few inputs, they were at the mercy of the weather and may have lived at bare subsistence level. The land they cultivated reduced the area available to nomadic herders, causing disputes over land. The semi-arid fringes of the desert have fragile soils which are at risk of erosion when exposed, as happened in the American Dust Bowl in the 1930s. The grasses that held the soil in place were ploughed under, and a series of dry years caused crop failures, while enormous dust storms blew the topsoil away. Half a million Americans were forced to leave their land in this catastrophe.\n\nSimilar damage is being done today to the semi-arid areas that rim deserts and about twelve million hectares of land are being turned to desert each year. Desertification is caused by such factors as drought, climatic shifts, tillage for agriculture, overgrazing and deforestation. Vegetation plays a major role in determining the composition of the soil. In many environments, the rate of erosion and run off increases dramatically with reduced vegetation cover.\n\nDeserts contain substantial mineral resources, sometimes over their entire surface, giving them their characteristic colors. For example, the red of many sand deserts comes from laterite minerals. Geological processes in a desert climate can concentrate minerals into valuable deposits. Leaching by ground water can extract ore minerals and redeposit them, according to the water table, in concentrated form. Similarly, evaporation tends to concentrate minerals in desert lakes, creating dry lake beds or playas rich in minerals. Evaporation can concentrate minerals as a variety of evaporite deposits, including gypsum, sodium nitrate, sodium chloride and borates. Evaporites are found in the USA's Great Basin Desert, historically exploited by the \"20-mule teams\" pulling carts of borax from Death Valley to the nearest railway. A desert especially rich in mineral salts is the Atacama Desert, Chile, where sodium nitrate has been mined for explosives and fertilizer since around 1850. Other desert minerals are copper from Chile, Peru, and Iran, and iron and uranium in Australia. Many other metals, salts and commercially valuable types of rock such as pumice are extracted from deserts around the world.\n\nOil and gas form on the bottom of shallow seas when micro-organisms decompose under anoxic conditions and later become covered with sediment. Many deserts were at one time the sites of shallow seas and others have had underlying hydrocarbon deposits transported to them by the movement of tectonic plates.\nSome major oilfields such as Ghawar are found under the sands of Saudi Arabia. Geologists believe that other oil deposits were formed by aeolian processes in ancient deserts as may be the case with some of the major American oil fields.\n\nTraditional desert farming systems have long been established in North Africa, irrigation being the key to success in an area where water stress is a limiting factor to growth. Techniques that can be used include drip irrigation, the use of organic residues or animal manures as fertilisers and other traditional agricultural management practises. Once fertility has been built up, further crop production preserves the soil from destruction by wind and other forms of erosion. It has been found that plant growth-promoting bacteria play a role in increasing the resistance of plants to stress conditions and these rhizobacterial suspensions could be inoculated into the soil in the vicinity of the plants. A study of these microbes found that desert farming hampers desertification by establishing islands of fertility allowing farmers to achieve increased yields despite the adverse environmental conditions. A field trial in the Sonoran Desert which exposed the roots of different species of tree to rhizobacteria and the nitrogen fixing bacterium \"Azospirillum brasilense\" with the aim of restoring degraded lands was only partially successful.\n\nThe Judean Desert was farmed in the 7th century BC during the Iron Age to supply food for desert forts. Native Americans in the south western United States became agriculturalists around 600 AD when seeds and technologies became available from Mexico. They used terracing techniques and grew gardens beside seeps, in moist areas at the foot of dunes, near streams providing flood irrigation and in areas irrigated by extensive specially built canals. The Hohokam tribe constructed over of large canals and maintained them for centuries, an impressive feat of engineering. They grew maize, beans, squash and peppers.\n\nA modern example of desert farming is the Imperial Valley in California, which has high temperatures and average rainfall of just per year. The economy is heavily based on agriculture and the land is irrigated through a network of canals and pipelines sourced entirely from the Colorado River via the All-American Canal. The soil is deep and fertile, being part of the river's flood plains, and what would otherwise have been desert has been transformed into one of the most productive farming regions in California. Other water from the river is piped to urban communities but all this has been at the expense of the river, which below the extraction sites no longer has any above-ground flow during most of the year. Another problem of growing crops in this way is the build-up of salinity in the soil caused by evaporation of river water. The greening of the desert remains an aspiration and was at one time viewed as a future means for increasing food production for the world's growing population. This prospect has proved false as it disregarded the environmental damage caused elsewhere by the diversion of water for desert project irrigation.\n\nDeserts are increasingly seen as sources for solar energy, partly due to low amounts of cloud cover. Many successful solar power plants have been built in the Mojave Desert. These plants have a combined capacity of 354 megawatts (MW) making them the largest solar power installation in the world. Large swaths of this desert are covered in mirrors, including nine fields of solar collectors. The Mojave Solar Park is currently under construction and will produce 280MW when completed.\n\nThe potential for generating solar energy from the Sahara Desert is huge, the highest found on the globe. Professor David Faiman of Ben-Gurion University has stated that the technology now exists to supply all of the world's electricity needs from 10% of the Sahara Desert. Desertec Industrial Initiative was a consortium seeking $560 billion to invest in North African solar and wind installations over the next forty years to supply electricity to Europe via cable lines running under the Mediterranean Sea. European interest in the Sahara Desert stems from its two aspects: the almost continual daytime sunshine and plenty of unused land. The Sahara receives more sunshine per acre than any part of Europe. The Sahara Desert also has the empty space totalling hundreds of square miles required to house fields of mirrors for solar plants.\n\nThe Negev Desert, Israel, and the surrounding area, including the Arava Valley, receive plenty of sunshine and are generally not arable. This has resulted in the construction of many solar plants. David Faiman has proposed that \"giant\" solar plants in the Negev could supply all of Israel's needs for electricity.\n\nThe Arabs were probably the first organized force to conduct successful battles in the desert. By knowing back routes and the locations of oases and by utilizing camels, Muslim Arab forces were able to successfully overcome both Roman and Persian forces in the period 600 to 700 AD during the expansion of the Islamic caliphate.\n\nMany centuries later, both world wars saw fighting in the desert. In the First World War, the Ottoman Turks were engaged with the British regular army in a campaign that spanned the Arabian peninsula. The Turks were defeated by the British, who had the backing of irregular Arab forces that were seeking to revolt against the Turks in the Hejaz, made famous in T. E. Lawrence's book \"Seven Pillars of Wisdom\".\n\nIn the Second World War, the Western Desert Campaign began in Italian Libya. Warfare in the desert offered great scope for tacticians to use the large open spaces without the distractions of casualties among civilian populations. Tanks and armoured vehicles were able to travel large distances unimpeded and land mines were laid in large numbers. However the size and harshness of the terrain meant that all supplies needed to be brought in from great distances. The victors in a battle would advance and their supply chain would necessarily become longer, while the defeated army could retreat, regroup and resupply. For these reasons, the front line moved back and forth through hundreds of kilometers as each side lost and regained momentum. Its most easterly point was at El Alamein in Egypt, where the Allies decisively defeated the Axis forces in 1942.\n\nThe desert is generally thought of as a barren and empty landscape. It has been portrayed by writers, film-makers, philosophers, artists and critics as a place of extremes, a metaphor for anything from death, war or religion to the primitive past or the desolate future.\n\nThere is an extensive literature on the subject of deserts. An early historical account is that of Marco Polo (c. 1254–1324), who travelled through Central Asia to China, crossing a number of deserts in his twenty four year trek. Some accounts give vivid descriptions of desert conditions, though often accounts of journeys across deserts are interwoven with reflection, as is the case in Charles Montagu Doughty's major work, \"Travels in Arabia Deserta\" (1888). Antoine de Saint-Exupéry described both his flying and the desert in \"Wind, Sand and Stars\" and Gertrude Bell travelled extensively in the Arabian desert in the early part of the 20th century, becoming an expert on the subject, writing books and advising the British government on dealing with the Arabs. Another woman explorer was Freya Stark who travelled alone in the Middle East, visiting Turkey, Arabia, Yemen, Syria, Persia and Afghanistan, writing over twenty books on her experiences. The German naturalist Uwe George spent several years living in deserts, recording his experiences and research in his book, \"In the Deserts of this Earth\".\n\nThe American poet Robert Frost expressed his bleak thoughts in his poem, \"Desert Places\", which ends with the stanza \"They cannot scare me with their empty spaces / Between stars - on stars where no human race is. / I have it in me so much nearer home / To scare myself with my own desert places.\"\n\nMars is the only planet in the Solar System on which deserts have been identified. Despite its low surface atmospheric pressure (only 1/100 of that of the Earth), the patterns of atmospheric circulation on Mars have formed a sea of circumpolar sand more than 5 million km² (1.9 million sq mi) in area, much larger than deserts on Earth. The Martian deserts principally consist of dunes in the form of half-moons in flat areas near the permanent polar ice caps in the north of the planet. The smaller dune fields occupy the bottom of many of the craters situated in the Martian polar regions. Examination of the surface of rocks by laser beamed from the Mars Exploration Rover have shown a surface film that resembles the desert varnish found on Earth although it might just be surface dust. The surface of Titan, a moon of Saturn, also has a desert-like surface with dune seas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27380313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27380313", "title": "Dirt! The Movie", "text": "Dirt! The Movie\n\nDirt! The Movie is a 2009 American documentary film directed by filmmakers Gene Rosow and Bill Benenson and narrated by Jamie Lee Curtis. It was inspired by the book \"Dirt: The Ecstatic Skin of the Earth\" by William Bryant Logan. The documentary starred environmentalists like Wangari Maathai, Vandana Shiva, Gary Vaynerchuk, Paul Stamets and Bill Logan. The film explores the relationship between humans and soil, including its necessity for human life and impacts by society. \n\n\"Dirt! The Movie\" was an official selection for the 2009 Sundance Film Festival and won several awards, including the best documentary award at the 2009 Visions/Voices Environmental Film Festival and the \"Best film for our future\" award at the 2009 Mendocino Film Festival.\n"}
{"id": "21863927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21863927", "title": "Effective mass (spring–mass system)", "text": "Effective mass (spring–mass system)\n\nIn a real spring–mass system, the spring has a non-negligible mass formula_1. Since not all of the spring's length moves at the same velocity formula_2 as the suspended mass formula_3, its kinetic energy is not equal to formula_4. As such, formula_1 cannot be simply added to formula_3 to determine the frequency of oscillation, and the effective mass of the spring is defined as the mass that needs to be added to formula_3 to correctly predict the behavior of the system.\n\nThe effective mass of the spring in a spring-mass system when using an ideal spring of uniform linear density is 1/3 of the mass of the spring and is independent of the direction of the spring-mass system (i.e., horizontal, vertical, and oblique systems all have the same effective mass). This is because external acceleration does not affect the period of motion around the equilibrium point.\n\nWe can find the effective mass of the spring by finding its kinetic energy. This requires adding all the mass elements' kinetic energy, and requires the following integral, where formula_8 is the velocity of mass element :\n\nSince the spring is uniform, formula_10, where formula_11 is the length of the spring. Hence,\n\nThe velocity of each mass element of the spring is directly proportional to its length, i.e. formula_14, from which it follows:\n\nComparing to the expected original kinetic energy formula formula_19 we can conclude that effective mass of spring in this case is \"m\"/3. Using this result, we can write down the equation of motion of the spring by writing the Lagrangian in terms of the displacement formula_20 from the spring's unstretched position (ignoring constant potential terms and taking the upwards direction as positive):\n\nNote that formula_23 here is the acceleration of gravity along the spring. Using the Euler–Lagrange equation, we arrive at the equation of motion:\n\nWe can find the equilibrium point formula_25 by letting the acceleration be zero:\n\nDefining formula_27, the equation of motion becomes:\n\nThis is the equation for a simple harmonic oscillator with period:\n\nSo we can see that the effective mass of the spring added to the mass of the load gives us the \"effective total mass\" of the system that must be used in the standard formula formula_30 to determine the period of oscillation.\n\nAs seen above, the effective mass of a spring does not depend upon \"external\" factors such as the acceleration of gravity along it. In fact, for a non-uniform spring, the effective mass solely depends on its linear density formula_31 along its length:\n\nSo the effective mass of a spring is:\n\nThis result also shows that formula_37, with formula_38 occurring in the case of an unphysical spring whose mass is located purely at the end farthest from the support.\n\nThe above calculations assume that the stiffness coefficient of the spring does not depend on its length. However, this is not the case for real springs. For small values of formula_39, the displacement is not so large as to cause elastic deformation. Jun-ichi Ueda and Yoshiro Sadamoto have found that as formula_39 increases beyond 7, the effective mass of a spring in a vertical spring-mass system becomes smaller than Rayleigh's value formula_41 and eventually reaches negative values. This unexpected behavior of the effective mass can be explained in terms of the elastic after-effect (which is the spring's not returning to its original length after the load is removed).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23393341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23393341", "title": "Energy in the Central African Republic", "text": "Energy in the Central African Republic\n\nEnergy in the Central African Republic is a growing industry with plenty of potential.\n\nElectric power production totaled 103 GWh in 2002, with consumption at 96 GWh for that same year. The capital city of Bangui is supplied by two hydroelectric generators and one thermal plant. A new dam on the Mbali River (a joint project with Democratic Republic of the Congo), which permits year-round hydroelectric generation, opened in late 1991. Total generating capacity was 40 MW in 2002, with thermal sources accounting for 21 MW and hydroelectric at 19 MW for that year.\n\nExxon drilled an exploratory oil well in 1985, but further work was deemed economically infeasible. Any oil production would depend on the connection of a pipeline from Chad to Douala, Cameroon. \n\nIn 2002, the Central African Republic's average daily fuel imports included 610 barrels of distillate fuel oil, 590 barrels of jet fuel, 530 barrels of kerosene, and 470 barrels of gasoline. As of 2002, the country has no known reserves of oil, natural gas or coal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2230606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2230606", "title": "Equatorial Counter Current", "text": "Equatorial Counter Current\n\nThe Equatorial Counter Current is an eastward flowing, wind-driven current which extends to depths of 100-150m in the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans. More often called the North Equatorial Countercurrent (NECC), this current flows west-to-east at about 3-10°N in the Atlantic, Indian Ocean and Pacific basins, between the North Equatorial Current (NEC) and the South Equatorial Current (SEC). The NECC is not to be confused with the Equatorial Undercurrent (EUC) that flows eastward along the equator at depths around 200m in the western Pacific rising to 100m in the eastern Pacific. \n\nIn the Indian Ocean, circulation is dominated by the impact of the reversing Asian monsoon winds. As such, the current tends to reverse hemispheres seasonally in that basin. The NECC has a pronounced seasonal cycle in the Atlantic and Pacific, reaching maximum strength in late boreal summer and fall and minimum strength in late boreal winter and spring. Furthermore, the NECC in the Atlantic disappears in late winter and early spring. \n\nThe NECC is an interesting case because while it results from wind-driven circulation, it transports water against the mean westward wind stress in the tropics. This apparent paradox is concisely explained by Sverdrup theory, which shows that the east-west transport is governed by the north-south change in the curl of the wind stress.\n\nThe Pacific NECC is also known to be stronger during warm episodes of the El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO). Klaus Wyrtki, who first reported this connection, suggested that a stronger than normal NECC could be the cause of an El Niño because of the extra volume of warm water it carried eastwards.\n\nThere is also a South Equatorial Countercurrent (SECC) that transports water from west to east in the Pacific and Atlantic basins between 2°S and 5°S in the western basin and farther south toward the east. While the SECC is geostrophic in nature, the physical mechanism for its appearance is less clear than with the NECC; that is, Sverdrup theory does not obviously explain its existence. Additionally, the seasonal cycle of the SECC is not as defined as that of the NECC.\n\nThe NECC is a direct response to the meridional change of the wind stress curl near the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ). In part the NECC owes its existence to the fact that the ITCZ is not located at the equator, rather several degrees latitude to the north. The change in the coriolis parameter (a function of latitude) moving across the equator combined with the ITCZ being located north of the equator leads to areas of convergence and divergence in the oceanic mixed-layer. This result is obtained from Ekman theory. Using the larger Pacific basin as an example, the resulting dynamic height pattern consists of a trough at the equator, and ridge near 5° degrees north, a trough at 10°N, and finally a ridge closer to 20°N. From geostrophy (the perfect balance between the mass field and velocity field), the NECC is located between the ridge and trough at 5°N and 10°N, respectively.\n\nSverdrup theory succinctly summarizes this phenomenon mathematically by defining a geostrophic mass transport per unit latitude, M, as the east-west integral of the meridional derivative of wind stress curl, minus any Ekman transport. The Ekman transport into the current is typically negligible, at least in the Pacific NECC. The total NECC is found by simply integrating M over the relevant latitudes.\n\nThe Atlantic NECC consists of the eastward zonal transport of water between 3°N and 9°N, with typical widths on the order of 300 km. The Atlantic NECC is unique among the equatorial currents in that basin because of its extreme seasonality. The maximum eastward flow is attained in late boreal summer and fall while the countercurrent is replaced by westward flow in late winter and spring. The NECC has maximum transport of approximately 40 Sv (10^6 m3/s) at 38°W. Transport reaches 30 Sv two months per year at 44°W, while farther east at 38°W the transport reaches that level five months per year. The magnitude of the NECC weakens substantially east of 38°W due to water being absorbed by the westward equatorial current south of 3°N.\n\nWhile the variability of the Atlantic NECC is dominated by the annual cycle (weak late winter, strong late summer), there is also interannual variability as well. The strength of the Atlantic NECC is notably stronger in years following El Niño in the tropical Pacific, with 1983 and 1987 being notable examples. Physically, this implies that the altered convection in the Pacific Ocean due to El Niño drives changes in the meridional gradient of wind stress curl over the equatorial Atlantic.\n\nThe Pacific NECC is the major eastward moving surface current that transports more than 20 Sv from the West Pacific warm pool to the cooler East Pacific. In the western Pacific the countercurrent is centered near 5°N while in the central Pacific it is located near 7°N. The northern boundary of the Pacific NECC is easily defined by the adjacent westward flow found in the North Equatorial Current (NEC). The southern boundary, however, can be more ambiguous. The southern boundary in the central Pacific is clearly defined by the westward South Equatorial Current (SEC) at the surface, but at depth it merges with the North Subsurface Countercurrent (NSCC). In the western basin, the NECC may merge with the Equatorial Undercurrent (EUC) below the surface. Generally, the current weakens to the east in the basin, with estimated flows of 21 Sv, 14.2 Sv, and 12 Sv in the western, central, and eastern Pacific, respectively.\n\nLike the Atlantic NECC, the Pacific NECC undergoes an annual cycle. Unlike the Atlantic however, the eastward Pacific NECC does not generally disappear. During late boreal winter and spring, the current is weaker as the northeasterly trade winds are shifted south, and oppose the current. When the northeasterly trades are shifted north and weaker in the later summer and fall, the NECC is stronger. These seasonal fluctuations are in phase with that of the NEC, but opposite in phase to the SEC.\n\nThe Pacific NECC is known to be stronger during El Niño events where there is anomalous warming of the eastern and central Pacific that peaks in boreal winter. Klaus Wyrtki hypothesized in the early 1970s that an unusually strong NECC in the western Pacific would lead to an anomalous accumulation of warm water of the coast of Central America and, thus, El Niño. The sea surface temperatures in the eastern equatorial Pacific and the transport of the NECC are indeed highly correlated. This does not, however, exclude other atmospheric and oceanic factors from contributing to anomalous warming. ENSO is a complicated, coupled ocean-atmosphere phenomenon in which basin-wide changes in sea surface temperatures, trade winds, and atmospheric convection are intimately related.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21643952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21643952", "title": "Fox River Belt", "text": "Fox River Belt\n\nThe Fox River Belt is a long and to wide Paleoproterozoic geologic feature located in northern Manitoba, Canada. It consists of sedimentary and mafic/ultramafic igneous rocks.\n"}
{"id": "44329487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44329487", "title": "HYSPLIT", "text": "HYSPLIT\n\nThe Hybrid Single Particle Lagrangian Integrated Trajectory Model (HYSPLIT) is a computer model that is used to compute air parcel trajectories and dispersion or deposition of atmospheric pollutants. It was developed by NOAA and Australia's Bureau of Meteorology.\n\nOne popular use of HYSPLIT is to establish whether high levels of air pollution at one location are caused by transport of air contaminants from another location. HYSPLIT's back trajectories, combined with satellite images (for example, from NASA's MODIS satellites), can provide insight into whether high air pollution levels are caused by local air pollution sources or whether an air pollution problem was blown in on the wind.\n\nHYSPLIT is rather unusual in that it may be run in client-server mode (HYSPLIT-WEB) from the NOAA website, allowing members of the public to select gridded historical or forecast datasets, to configure model runs, and retrieve model results with a web browser.\n"}
{"id": "3675383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3675383", "title": "Hakkō ichiu", "text": "Hakkō ichiu\n\nThe term was coined early in the 20th century by Nichiren Buddhist activist and nationalist Tanaka Chigaku, who cobbled it from parts of a statement attributed in the chronicle \"Nihon Shoki\" to legendary first emperor Jinmu at the time of his ascension. The Emperor's full statement reads: \"Hakkō wo ooute ie to nasan\" (, or in the original Sino-Japanese: ), and means: \"I shall cover the eight directions and make them my abode\". The term \"hakkō\" (), meaning \"eight crown cords\", was a metaphor for \"happō\" () or \"eight directions\".\n\nAmbiguous in its original context, Tanaka interpreted the statement attributed to Jinmu, as meaning that imperial rule had been divinely ordained to expand until it united the entire world. While Tanaka saw this outcome as resulting from the emperor's moral leadership, many of his followers were less pacifist in their outlook, despite some intellectuals' awareness of the inherent nationalist implications and reactions to this term. Koyama Iwao (1905–93), disciple of Nishida, and drawing off the Flower Adornment Sutra, proposed the interpretation \"to be included or to find a place\". This understanding was rejected by the military circles of the nationalist right.\n\nJapanese in Western nations suffered from racial discrimination issues. In 1919, Japan proposed a racial equality clause at the Paris Peace Conference. Their proposal received the support of a majority but was vetoed by Woodrow Wilson, in violation of the rules of the Conference on majority vote. In 1924, the U.S. Congress enacted the Asian Exclusion Act, outlawing immigration from Asia. On December 6, 1938, the Five ministers council (Prime Minister Fumimaro Konoe, Army Minister Seishirō Itagaki, Navy Minister Mitsumasa Yonai, Foreign Minister Hachirō Arita and Finance Minister Shigeaki Ikeda), which was the highest decision making council at the time, took the decision to prohibit the expulsion of the Jews from Japan, Manchuria, and China in accordance with the spirit of racial equality. Thereafter, the Japanese received Jewish refugees despite their ally Nazi Germany's opposition.\n\nWith the economic impact of the Shōwa financial crisis and the Great Depression, this led in the 1930s to a resurgence of nationalist, militarist and expansionist movements. Emperor Shōwa (known more commonly as Hirohito outside of Japan) and his reign became associated with the rediscovery of \"Hakkō ichiu\" as an expansionist element of Japanese nationalistic beliefs. The naval limitations treaties of 1921, and especially 1930, were seen as a mistake in their unanticipated effect on internal political struggles in Japan; and the treaties provided an external motivating catalyst which provoked reactionary, militarist elements to desperate actions which eventually overwhelmed civilian and liberal elements in society.\n\nThe evolution of \"Hakkō ichiu\" serves as a changing litmus test of these factional relationships during the next decade.\n\nThe term \"Hakkō ichiu\" did not enter general circulation until 1940, when the second Konoe administration issued a white paper titled \"Fundamental National Policy\" ( \"Kihon Kokusaku Yōkō\"), which opened with these words, and in which Prime Minister Konoe proclaimed that the basic aim of Japan's national policy was \"the establishment of world peace in conformity with the very spirit in which our nation was founded\" and that the first step was the proclamation of a \"new order in East Asia\" ( \"Tōa Shin Chitsujo\"), which later took the form of the \"Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere\". In the most magnanimous form, the term was used to indicate the making of a universal brotherhood implemented by the uniquely virtuous \"Yamato\". Because this would bring people under the emperor's fatherly benevolence, force was justified against those who resisted.\n\n1940 was declared the 2600th anniversary of the founding of Japan in part in celebration of \"hakkō ichiu\". As part of the celebrations, the government officially opened the \"Hakko-ichiu\" Monument (now Heiwadai Tower) at what is now Miyazaki Peace Park in the city of Miyazaki.\n\nAs the Second Sino-Japanese War dragged on without conclusion, the Japanese government turned increasingly to the nation's spiritual capital to maintain fighting spirit.\n\nCharacterization of the fighting as a , similarly grounding the current conflict in the nation's sacred beginnings, became increasingly evident in the Japanese press at this time. In 1940, the Imperial Rule Assistance Association was launched to provide political support to Japan's war in China.\n\nThe general spread of the term \"Hakkō ichiu\", neatly encapsulating this view of expansion as mandated in Japan's divine origin, was further propelled by preparations for , which fell in the year 1940 according to the traditional chronology. Stories recounted that Jimmu, finding five races in Japan, had made them all as \"brothers of one family\".\n\nAfter Japan declared war on the Allies in December 1941, Allied governments produced several propaganda films citing the \"Hakkō ichiu\" as evidence that the Japanese intended to conquer the entire world.\n\nThe official translation offered by contemporary leaders was \"universal brotherhood\", but it was widely acknowledged that that expression meant that the Japanese were \"equal to the Caucasians but, to the peoples of Asia, we act as their leader\". \nHence \"Hakkō ichiu\" meant to signify racial harmony and equality. In general, however, the subsequent brutality and racism of the Japanese led to people of the occupied areas regarding the new Japanese imperialists as equal to or (more often) much worse than Western imperialists. The Japanese government directed that local economies be managed strictly for the production of raw war materials for the Japanese.\n\nAs part of its war effort, Japanese propaganda included phrases such as \"Asia for the Asians!\" and emphasized about the perceived need to liberate Asian countries from imperialist powers. The failure to win the war in China was blamed on British and American exploitation of Southeast Asian colonies, even though the Chinese received far more assistance from the Soviet Union. In some cases local populations welcomed Japanese troops when they invaded, driving out British, French and other colonial powers.\n\n\"Hakkō Ichiu\" meant the bringing together of the corners of the world under one ruler, or the making of the world one family. This was the alleged ideal of the foundation of the Empire; and in its traditional context meant no more than a universal principle of humanity, which was destined ultimately to pervade the whole universe. The way to the realisation of \"Hakkō Ichiu\" was through the benign rule of the Emperor; and therefore the \"way of the Emperor\"—the \"Imperial\" or the \"Kingly way\"—was a concept of virtue, and a maxim of conduct. \"Hakkō Ichiu\" was the moral goal; and loyalty to the Emperor was the road which led to it. Throughout the years that followed measures of military aggression were advocated in the names of \"Hakkō ichiu\" eventually became symbols for world domination through military force.\n\nSince the end of the Pacific War, some have highlighted the \"Hakkō ichiu\" slogan as part of a context of historical revisionism. The \"Hakkō ichiu\" monument was renamed after the war and still stands today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1607622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1607622", "title": "History of ecology", "text": "History of ecology\n\nEcology is a new science and considered as an important branch of biological science, having only become prominent during the second half of the 20th century. Ecological thought is derivative of established currents in philosophy, particularly from ethics and politics. Its history stems all the way back to the 4th century. One of the first ecologists whose writings survive may have been Aristotle or perhaps his student, Theophrastus, both of whom had interest in many species of animals and plants. Theophrastus described interrelationships between animals and their environment as early as the 4th century BC. Ecology developed substantially in the 18th and 19th century. It began with Carl Linnaeus and his work with the economy of nature. Soon after came Alexander von Humboldt and his work with botanical geography. Alfred Russel Wallace and Karl Möbius then contributed with the notion of biocoenosis. Eugenius Warming’s work with ecological plant geography led to the founding of ecology as a discipline. Charles Darwin’s work also contributed to the science of ecology, and Darwin is often attributed with progressing the discipline more than anyone else in its young history. Ecological thought expanded even more in the early 20th century. Major contributions included: Eduard Suess’ and Vladimir Vernadsky’s work with the biosphere, Arthur Tansley’s ecosystem, Charles Elton's \"Animal Ecology\", and Henry Cowles ecological succession. Ecology influenced the social sciences and humanities. Human ecology began in the early 20th century and it recognized humans as an ecological factor. Later James Lovelock advanced views on earth as a macro-organism with the Gaia hypothesis. Conservation stemmed from the science of ecology. Important figures and movements include Shelford and the ESA, National Environmental Policy act, George Perkins Marsh, Theodore Roosevelt, Stephen A. Forbes, and post-Dust Bowl conservation. Later in the 20th century world governments collaborated on man’s effects on the biosphere and Earth’s environment.\n\nThe history of ecology is intertwined with the history of conservation efforts, in particular the founding of the Nature Conservancy.\n\nIn the early Eighteenth century, preceding Carl Linnaeus, two rival schools of thought dominated the growing scientific discipline of ecology. First, Gilbert White a “parson-naturalist” is attributed with developing and endorsing the view of Arcadian ecology. Arcadian ecology advocates for a “simple, humble life for man” and a harmonious relationship with humans and nature. Opposing the Arcadian view is Francis Bacon's ideology, “imperial ecology”. Imperialists work “to establish through the exercise of reason and by hard work, man’s dominance over nature”. Imperial ecologists also believe that man should become a dominant figure over nature and all other organisms as “once enjoyed in the Garden of Eden”. Both views continued their rivalry through the early eighteenth century until Carl Linnaeus's support of imperialism; and in short time due to Linnaeus's popularity, imperial ecology became the dominant view within the discipline.\n\nCarl Linnaeus, a Swedish naturalist, is well known for his work with taxonomy but his ideas helped to lay the groundwork for modern ecology. He developed a two part naming system for classifying plants and animals. Binomial Nomenclature was used to classify, describe, and name different genera and species. The compiled editions of \"Systema Naturae\" developed and popularized the naming system for plants and animals in modern biology. Reid suggests \"Linnaeus can fairly be regarded as the originator of systematic and ecological studies in biodiversity,\" due to his naming and classifying of thousands of plant and animal species. Linnaeus also influenced the foundations of Darwinian evolution, he believed that there could be change in or between different species within fixed genera. Linnaeus was also one of the first naturalists to place men in the same category as primates.\n\nThroughout the 18th and the beginning of the 19th century, the great maritime powers such as Britain, Spain, and Portugal launched many world exploratory expeditions to develop maritime commerce with other countries, and to discover new natural resources, as well as to catalog them. At the beginning of the 18th century, about twenty thousand plant species were known, versus forty thousand at the beginning of the 19th century, and about 300,000 today.\n\nThese expeditions were joined by many scientists, including botanists, such as the German explorer Alexander von Humboldt. Humboldt is often considered a father of ecology. He was the first to take on the study of the relationship between organisms and their environment. He exposed the existing relationships between observed plant species and climate, and described vegetation zones using latitude and altitude, a discipline now known as geobotany. Von Humboldt was accompanied on his expedition by the botanist Aimé Bonpland.\n\nIn 1856, the Park Grass Experiment was established at the Rothamsted Experimental Station to test the effect of fertilizers and manures on hay yields. This is the longest-running field experiment in the world.\n\nAlfred Russel Wallace, contemporary and colleague of Darwin, was first to propose a \"geography\" of animal species. Several authors recognized at the time that species were not independent of each other, and grouped them into plant species, animal species, and later into communities of living beings or biocoenosis. The first use of this term is usually attributed to Karl Möbius in 1877, but already in 1825, the French naturalist Adolphe Dureau de la Malle used the term \"societé\" about an assemblage of plant individuals of different species.\n\nWhile Darwin focused exclusively on competition as a selective force, Eugen Warming devised a new discipline that took abiotic factors, that is drought, fire, salt, cold etc., as seriously as biotic factors in the assembly of biotic communities. Biogeography before Warming was largely of descriptive nature – faunistic or floristic. Warming's aim was, through the study of organism (plant) morphology and anatomy, i.e. adaptation, to explain why a species occurred under a certain set of environmental conditions. Moreover, the goal of the new discipline was to explain why species occupying similar habitats, experiencing similar hazards, would solve problems in similar ways, despite often being of widely different phylogenetic descent. Based on his personal observations in Brazilian cerrado, in Denmark, Norwegian Finnmark and Greenland, Warming gave the first university course in ecological plant geography. Based on his lectures, he wrote the book ‘Plantesamfund’, which was immediate translated to German, Polish and Russian, later to English as ‘Oecology of Plants’. Through its German edition, the book had an immense effect on British and North American scientists like Arthur Tansley, Henry Chandler Cowles and Frederic Clements.\n\nThomas Robert Malthus was an influential writer on the subject of population and population limits in the early 19th century. His works were very important in shaping the ways in which Darwin saw the world worked. Malthus wrote:\nIn An Essay on the Principle of Population Malthus argues for the reining in of rising population through 2 checks: Positive and Preventive checks. The first raising death rates, the later lowers birthing rates. Malthus also brings forth the idea that the world population will move past the sustainable number of people. This form of thought still continues to influences debates on birth and marriage rates to this theory brought forth by Malthus. The essay had a major influence on Charles Darwin and helped him to theories his theory of Natural Selection. This struggle proposed by Malthusian thought not only influenced the ecological work of Charles Darwin, but helped bring about an economic theory of world of ecology.\n\nIt is often held that the roots of scientific ecology may be traced back to Darwin. This contention may look convincing at first glance inasmuch as \"On the Origin of Species\" is full of observations and proposed mechanisms that clearly fit within the boundaries of modern ecology (e.g. the cat-to-clover chain – an ecological cascade) and because the term ecology was coined in 1866 by a strong proponent of Darwinism, Ernst Haeckel. However, Darwin never used the word in his writings after this year, not even in his most \"ecological\" writings such as the foreword to the English edition of Hermann Müller’s \"The Fertilization of Flowers\" (1883) or in his own treatise of earthworms and mull formation in forest soils (The formation of vegetable mould through the action of worms, 1881). Moreover, the pioneers founding ecology as a scientific discipline, such as Eugen Warming, A. F. W. Schimper, Gaston Bonnier, F.A. Forel, S.A. Forbes and Karl Möbius, made almost no reference to Darwin’s ideas in their works. This was clearly not out of ignorance or because the works of Darwin were not widespread. Some such as S.A.Forbes studying intricate food webs asked questions as yet unanswered about the instability of food chains that might persist if dominant competitors were not adapted to have self-constraint. Others focused on the dominant themes at the beginning, concern with the relationship between organism morphology and physiology on one side and environment on the other, mainly abiotic environment, hence environmental selection. Darwin’s concept of natural selection on the other hand focused primarily on competition. The mechanisms other than competition that he described, primarily the divergence of character which can reduce competition and his statement that \"struggle\" as he used it was metaphorical and thus included environmental selection, were given less emphasis in the Origin than competition. Despite most portrayals of Darwin conveying him as a non-aggressive recluse who let others fight his battles, Darwin remained all his life a man nearly obsessed with the ideas of competition, struggle and conquest – with all forms of human contact as confrontation.\n\nBy the 19th century, ecology blossomed due to new discoveries in chemistry by Lavoisier and de Saussure, notably the nitrogen cycle. After observing the fact that life developed only within strict limits of each compartment that makes up the atmosphere, hydrosphere, and lithosphere, the Austrian geologist Eduard Suess proposed the term biosphere in 1875. Suess proposed the name biosphere for the conditions promoting life, such as those found on Earth, which includes flora, fauna, minerals, matter cycles, et cetera.\n\nIn the 1920s Vladimir I. Vernadsky, a Russian geologist who had defected to France, detailed the idea of the biosphere in his work \"The biosphere\" (1926), and described the fundamental principles of the biogeochemical cycles. He thus redefined the biosphere as the sum of all ecosystems.\n\nFirst ecological damages were reported in the 18th century, as the multiplication of colonies caused deforestation. Since the 19th century, with the industrial revolution, more and more pressing concerns have grown about the impact of human activity on the environment. The term ecologist has been in use since the end of the 19th century.\n\nOver the 19th century, botanical geography and zoogeography combined to form the basis of biogeography. This science, which deals with habitats of species, seeks to explain the reasons for the presence of certain species in a given location.\n\nIt was in 1935 that Arthur Tansley, the British ecologist, coined the term ecosystem, the interactive system established between the biocoenosis (the group of living creatures), and their biotope, the environment in which they live. Ecology thus became the science of ecosystems.\n\nTansley's concept of the ecosystem was adopted by the energetic and influential biology educator Eugene Odum. Along with his brother, Howard T. Odum, Eugene P. Odum wrote a textbook which (starting in 1953) educated more than one generation of biologists and ecologists in North America.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, Henry Chandler Cowles was one of the founders of the emerging study of \"dynamic ecology\", through his study of ecological succession at the Indiana Dunes, sand dunes at the southern end of Lake Michigan. Here Cowles found evidence of ecological succession in the vegetation and the soil with relation to age. Cowles was very much aware of the roots of the concept and of his (primordial) predecessors. Thus, he attributes the first use of the word to the French naturalist Adolphe Dureau de la Malle, who had described the vegetation development after forest clear-felling, and the first comprehensive study of successional processes to the Finnish botanist Ragnar Hult (1881).\n\n20th century English zoologist and ecologist, Charles Elton, is commonly credited as “the father of animal ecology”. Elton influenced by Victor Shelford's \"Animal Communities in Temperate America\" began his research on animal ecology as an assistant to his colleague, Julian Huxley, on an ecological survey of the fauna in Spitsbergen in 1921. Elton's most famous studies were conducted during his time as a biological consultant to the Hudson Bay Company to help understand the fluctuations in the company's fur harvests. Elton studied the population fluctuations and dynamics of snowshoe hare, Canadian lynx, and other mammals of the region. Elton is also considered the first to coin the terms, food chain and food cycle in his famous book \"Animal Ecology\". Elton is also attributed with contributing to disciplines of: invasion ecology, community ecology, and wildlife disease ecology.\n\nGeorge “G” Evelyn Hutchinson was a 20th-century ecologist who is commonly recognized as the “Father of Modern Ecology”. Hutchinson is of English descent but spent most of professional career studying in New Haven, Connecticut at Yale University. Throughout his career, over six decades, Hutchinson contributed to the sciences of limnology, entomology, genetics, biogeochemistry, mathematical theory of population dynamics and many more. Hutchinson is also attributed as being the first to infuse science with theory within the discipline of ecology. Hutchinson was also one of the first credited with combining ecology with mathematics. Another major contribution of Hutchinson was his development of the current definition of an organism's “niche” – as he recognized the role of an organism within its community. Finally, along with his great impact within the discipline of ecology throughout his professional years, Hutchinson also left a lasting impact in ecology through his many students he inspired.\n\nHuman ecology began in the 1920s, through the study of changes in vegetation succession in the city of Chicago. It became a distinct field of study in the 1970s. This marked the first recognition that humans, who had colonized all of the Earth's continents, were a major ecological factor. Humans greatly modify the environment through the development of the habitat (in particular urban planning), by intensive exploitation activities such as logging and fishing, and as side effects of agriculture, mining, and industry. Besides ecology and biology, this discipline involved many other natural and social sciences, such as anthropology and ethnology, economics, demography, architecture and urban planning, medicine and psychology, and many more. The development of human ecology led to the increasing role of ecological science in the design and management of cities.\n\nIn recent years human ecology has been a topic that has interested organizational researchers. Hannan and Freeman (\"Population Ecology of Organizations (1977)\", American Journal of Sociology) argue that organizations do not only adapt to an environment. Instead it is also the environment that selects or rejects populations of organizations. In any given environment (in equilibrium) there will only be one form of organization (isomorphism). Organizational ecology has been a prominent theory in accounting for diversities of organizations and their changing composition over time.\n\nThe Gaia theory, proposed by James Lovelock, in his work \"Gaia: A New Look at Life on Earth\", advanced the view that the Earth should be regarded as a single living macro-organism. In particular, it argued that the ensemble of living organisms has jointly evolved an ability to control the global environment — by influencing major physical parameters as the composition of the atmosphere, the evaporation rate, the chemistry of soils and oceans — so as to maintain conditions favorable to life. The idea has been supported by Lynn Margulis who extended her endosymbiotic theory which suggests that cell organelles originated from free living organisms to the idea that individual organisms of many species could be considered as symbionts within a larger metaphorical \"super-organism\".\n\nThis vision was largely a sign of the times, in particular the growing perception after the Second World War that human activities such as nuclear energy, industrialization, pollution, and overexploitation of natural resources, fueled by exponential population growth, were threatening to create catastrophes on a planetary scale, and has influenced many in the environmental movement since then.\n\nEnvironmentalists and other conservationists have used ecology and other sciences (e.g., climatology) to support their advocacy positions. Environmentalist views are often controversial for political or economic reasons. As a result, some scientific work in ecology directly influences policy and political debate; these in turn often direct ecological research.\n\nThe history of ecology, however, should not be conflated with that of environmental thought. Ecology as a modern science traces only from Darwin's publication of Origin of Species and Haeckel's subsequent naming of the science needed to study Darwin's theory. Awareness of humankind's effect on its environment has been traced to Gilbert White in 18th-century Selborne, England. Awareness of nature and its interactions can be traced back even farther in time. Ecology before Darwin, however, is analogous to medicine prior to Pasteur's discovery of the infectious nature of disease. The history is there, but it is only partly relevant.\n\nNeither Darwin nor Haeckel, it is true, did self-avowed ecological studies. The same can be said for researchers in a number of fields who contributed to ecological thought well into the 1940s without avowedly being ecologists. Raymond Pearl's population studies are a case in point. Ecology in subject matter and techniques grew out of studies by botanists and plant geographers in the late 19th and early 20th centuries that paradoxically lacked Darwinian evolutionary perspectives. Until Mendel's studies with peas were rediscovered and melded into the Modern Synthesis, Darwinism suffered in credibility. Many early plant ecologists had a Lamarckian view of inheritance, as did Darwin, at times. Ecological studies of animals and plants, preferably live and in the field, continued apace however.\n\nWhen the Ecological Society of America (ESA) was chartered in 1915, it already had a conservation perspective. Victor E. Shelford, a leader in the society's formation, had as one of its goals the preservation of the natural areas that were then the objects of study by ecologists, but were in danger of being degraded by human incursion. Human ecology had also been a visible part of the ESA at its inception, as evident by publications such as: \"The Control of Pneumonia and Influenza by the Weather,\" \"An Overlook of the Relations of Dust to Humanity,\" \"The Ecological Relations of the Polar Eskimo,\" and \"City Street Dust and Infectious Diseases,\" in early pages of Ecology and Ecological Monographs. The ESA's second president, Ellsworth Huntington, was a human ecologist. Stephen Forbes, another early president, called for \"humanizing\" ecology in 1921, since man was clearly the dominant species on the Earth.\n\nThis auspicious start actually was the first of a series of fitful progressions and reversions by the new science with regard to conservation. Human ecology necessarily focused on man-influenced environments and their practical problems. Ecologists in general, however, were trying to establish ecology as a basic science, one with enough prestige to make inroads into Ivy League faculties. Disturbed environments, it was thought, would not reveal nature's secrets.\n\nInterest in the environment created by the American Dust Bowl produced a flurry of calls in 1935 for ecology to take a look at practical issues. Pioneering ecologist C. C. Adams wanted to return human ecology to the science. Frederic E. Clements, the dominant plant ecologist of the day, reviewed land use issues leading to the Dust Bowl in terms of his ideas on plant succession and climax. Paul Sears reached a wide audience with his book, \"Deserts on the March\". World War II, perhaps, caused the issue to be put aside.\n\nThe tension between pure ecology, seeking to understand and explain, and applied ecology, seeking to describe and repair, came to a head after World War II. Adams again tried to push the ESA into applied areas by having it raise an endowment to promote ecology. He predicted that \"a great expansion of ecology\" was imminent \"because of its integrating tendency.\" Ecologists, however, were sensitive to the perception that ecology was still not considered a rigorous, quantitative science. Those who pushed for applied studies and active involvement in conservation were once more discreetly rebuffed. Human ecology became subsumed by sociology. It was sociologist Lewis Mumford who brought the ideas of George Perkins Marsh to modern attention in the 1955 conference, \"Man’s Role in Changing the Face of the Earth.\" That prestigious conclave was dominated by social scientists. At it, ecology was accused of \"lacking experimental methods\" and neglecting \"man as an ecological agent.\" One participant dismissed ecology as \"archaic and sterile.\" Within the ESA, a frustrated Shelford started the Ecologists’ Union when his Committee on Preservation of Natural Conditions ceased to function due to the political infighting over the ESA stance on conservation. In 1950, the fledgling organization was renamed and incorporated as the Nature Conservancy, a name borrowed from the British government agency for the same purpose.\n\nTwo events, however, brought ecology's course back to applied problems. One was the Manhattan Project. It had become the Nuclear Energy Commission after the war. It is now the Department of Energy (DOE). Its ample budget included studies of the impacts of nuclear weapon use and production. That brought ecology to the issue, and it made a \"Big Science\" of it. Ecosystem science, both basic and applied, began to compete with theoretical ecology (then called evolutionary ecology and also mathematical ecology). Eugene Odum, who published a very popular ecology textbook in 1953, became the champion of the ecosystem. In his publications, Odum called for ecology to have an ecosystem and applied focus.\n\nThe second event was the publication of Silent Spring. Rachel Carson's book brought ecology as a word and concept to the public. Her influence was instant. A study committee, prodded by the publication of the book, reported to the ESA that their science was not ready to take on the responsibility being given to it.\n\nCarson's concept of ecology was very much that of Gene Odum. As a result, ecosystem science dominated the International Biological Program of the 1960s and 1970s, bringing both money and prestige to ecology. Silent Spring was also the impetus for the environmental protection programs that were started in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations and passed into law just before the first Earth Day. Ecologists’ input was welcomed. Former ESA President Stanley Cain, for example, was appointed an Assistant Secretary in the Department of the Interior.\n\nThe environmental assessment requirement of the 1969 National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), \"legitimized ecology,\" in the words of one environmental lawyer. An ESA President called it \"an ecological ‘Magna Carta.’\" A prominent Canadian ecologist declared it a \"boondoggle.\" NEPA and similar state statutes, if nothing else, provided much employment for ecologists. Therein was the issue. Neither ecology nor ecologists were ready for the task. Not enough ecologists were available to work on impact assessment, outside of the DOE laboratories, leading to the rise of \"instant ecologists,\" having dubious credentials and capabilities. Calls began to arise for the professionalization of ecology. Maverick scientist Frank Egler, in particular, devoted his sharp prose to the task. Again, a schism arose between basic and applied scientists in the ESA, this time exacerbated by the question of environmental advocacy. The controversy, whose history has yet to receive adequate treatment, lasted through the 1970s and 1980s, ending with a voluntary certification process by the ESA, along with lobbying arm in Washington.\n\nPost-Earth Day, besides questions of advocacy and professionalism, ecology also had to deal with questions having to do with its basic principles. Many of the theoretical principles and methods of both ecosystem science and evolutionary ecology began to show little value in environmental analysis and assessment. Ecologist, in general, started to question the methods and logic of their science under the pressure of its new notoriety. Meanwhile, personnel with government agencies and environmental advocacy groups were accused of religiously applying dubious principles in their conservation work. Management of endangered Spotted Owl populations brought the controversy to a head.\n\nConservation for ecologists created travails paralleling those nuclear power gave former Manhattan Project scientists. In each case, science had to be reconciled with individual politics, religious beliefs, and worldviews, a difficult process. Some ecologists managed to keep their science separate from their advocacy; others unrepentantly became avowed environmentalists.\n\nTheodore Roosevelt was interested in nature from a young age. He carried his passion for nature into his political policies. Roosevelt felt it was necessary to preserve the resources of the nation and its environment. In 1902 he created the federal reclamation service, which reclaimed land for agriculture. He also created the Bureau of Forestry. This organization, headed by Gifford Pinchot, was formed to manage and maintain the nations timberlands. Roosevelt signed the Act for the Preservation of American Antiquities in 1906. This act allowed for him to \"declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic and scientific interest that are situated upon lands owned or controlled by the Government of the United States to be National Monuments.\" Under this act he created up to 18 national monuments. During his presidency, Roosevelt established 51 Federal Bird Reservations, 4 National Game Preserves, 150 National Forests, and 5 National Parks. Overall he protected over 200 million acres of land.\n\nEcology became a central part of the World's politics as early as 1971, UNESCO launched a research program called \"Man and Biosphere\", with the objective of increasing knowledge about the mutual relationship between humans and nature. A few years later it defined the concept of Biosphere Reserve.\n\nIn 1972, the United Nations held the first international Conference on the Human Environment in Stockholm, prepared by Rene Dubos and other experts. This conference was the origin of the phrase \"Think Globally, Act Locally\". The next major events in ecology were the development of the concept of biosphere and the appearance of terms \"biological diversity\"—or now more commonly biodiversity—in the 1980s. These terms were developed during the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, where the concept of the biosphere was recognized by the major international organizations, and risks associated with reductions in biodiversity were publicly acknowledged.\n\nThen, in 1997, the dangers the biosphere was facing were recognized all over the world at the conference leading to the Kyoto Protocol. In particular, this conference highlighted the increasing dangers of the greenhouse effect – related to the increasing concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, leading to global changes in climate. In Kyoto, most of the world's nations recognized the importance of looking at ecology from a global point of view, on a worldwide scale, and to take into account the impact of humans on the Earth's environment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57442204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57442204", "title": "Hot water bottle blowing", "text": "Hot water bottle blowing\n\nHot water bottle blowing is the deliberate inflation of a hot-water bottle by blowing. Air is breathed into the bottle until it stretches beyond its capacity and consequently explodes. It is a challenging feat of strength which is included in the \"Guinness World Records\". The challenge is most commonly undertaken by breathing air from the mouth, though it has also been achieved by blowing through the nose. The activity presents a potential hazard for physical injury to eyes and lungs.\n\nBlowing up a hot-water bottle is usually performed to impress a crowd. It requires significant lung capacity as well as chest and abdominal strength. It is regarded as potentially hazardous because of the risk of harm to the eyes and the possibility of the contained air rushing back into the lungs and causing damage or, reportedly, death. Former world record holder Brian Jackson has claimed that he knows of at least five deaths resulting from the practice, although this is unconfirmed. Georgian athlete Jemal Tkeshelashvili has demonstrated two variations on the traditional method: blowing the bottle up with his nose, and blowing one up while somebody sits on top of it. In Britain, the hot-water bottles used conform to standard BS 1970:2006.\n\nThere are three hot-water bottle blowing records officiated by \"Guinness World Records\". The \"Fastest hot water bottle burst\" by a male is held by Shaun Jones from the United Kingdom. He achieved a time of 6.52 seconds on the set of Italian show \"Lo Show Dei Record\" on 31 March 2011. Jones also holds the record for the \"Fastest time to burst three hot water bottles\" setting the time of 28.82 seconds on 17 November 2011. Jemal Tkeshelashvili holds the record for \"Most hot water bottles burst with the nose in one minute\". Tkeshelashvili successfully exploded three hot-water bottles during a live television broadcast of \"Das Sommerfest der Abenteuer\" in Magdeburg, Germany, on 2 June 2012. Shaun Jones is also included in the Record Holders Republic registry as holding numerous variations of blowing up hot-water bottles, including doing so while standing on his head and while cycling at a minimum speed of on a stationary bicycle.\n\n"}
{"id": "6858518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6858518", "title": "Integrated Ocean Observing System", "text": "Integrated Ocean Observing System\n\nThe Integrated Ocean Observing System (IOOS) is an organization of systems that routinely and continuously provides quality controlled data and information on current and future states of the oceans and Great Lakes from the global scale of ocean basins to local scales of coastal ecosystems. It is a multidisciplinary system designed to provide data in forms and at rates required by decision makers to address seven societal goals.\n\nIOOS is developing as a multi-scale system that incorporates two, interdependent components, a global ocean component, called the Global Ocean Observing System, with an emphasis on ocean-basin scale observations and a coastal component that focuses on local to Large Marine Ecosystem (LME) scales.\nLarge Marine Ecosystems (LMEs) in U.S. coastal waters and IOOS Regional Associations.\n\nMany of IOOS' component regional systems are being dismantled for lack of federal funding, including the Gulf of Maine Ocean Observing System GoMOOS . This has resulted in the loss of long term data sets and information used by Coast Guard search and rescue operations.\n\n(shown in the figure below).The coastal component consists of Regional Coastal Ocean Observing Systems (RCOOSs) nested in a National Backbone of coastal observations. From a coastal perspective, the global ocean component is critical for providing data and information on basin scale forcings (e.g., ENSO events), as well as providing the data and information necessary to run coastal models (such as storm surge models).\n\nAlaska Ocean Observing System AOOS <br>\nCentral California Ocean Observing System CeNCOOS <br>\nGreat Lakes Observing System GLOS <br>\nGulf of Maine Ocean Observing System GoMOOS <br>\nGulf of Mexico Coastal Ocean Observing System GCOOS <br>\nPacific Islands Ocean Observing System PacIOOS <br>\nMid-Atlantic Coastal Ocean Observing Regional Association MACOORA <br>\nNorthwest Association of Networked Ocean Observing Systems NANOOS <br>\nSouthern California Coastal Ocean Observing System SCCOOS <br>\nSoutheast Coastal Ocean Observing Regional Association SECOORA <br>\nCaribbean Integrated Ocean Observing System CarICOOS\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78204", "title": "International Polar Year", "text": "International Polar Year\n\nThe International Polar Years (IPY) are collaborative, international efforts with intensive research foci on the polar regions. Karl Weyprecht, an Austro-Hungarian naval officer, motivated the endeavor in 1875, but died before it first occurred in 1882–1883. Fifty years later (1932–1933) a second IPY took place. The International Geophysical Year was inspired by the IPY and was organized 75 years after the first IPY (1957–58). The fourth, and most recent, IPY covered two full annual cycles from March 2007 to March 2009.\n\nThe First International Polar Year was proposed by an Austro-Hungarian naval officer, Karl Weyprecht, in 1875 and organized by Georg Neumayer, director of the German Maritime Observatory. Rather than settling for traditional individual and national efforts, they pushed for a coordinated scientific approach to researching Arctic phenomena. Observers made coordinated geophysical measurements at multiple locations in the Arctic during the same year enabling multiple views of same phenomena, allowing broader interpretation of the available data and a validation of the results obtained.\n\nIt took seven years to organize the first IPY which had twelve participating nations: the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Netherlands, Norway, Russia, Sweden, United Kingdom, Canada, and United States.\n\nThe aforementioned countries operated 12 stations in the Arctic and two in the sub-Antarctic. Six additional meteorological stations were organized by Neumayer at Moravian mission stations on the east coast of Labrador. Observations focused on meteorology, geomagnetism, auroral phenomena, ocean currents, tides, structure and the motion of ice and atmospheric electricity. More than 40 meteorological observatories around the world expanded the IPY programs of observations for this period. Data and images from the first IPY have very recently been made available for browsing and downloading on the internet. These records of the first IPY offer a rare glimpse of the circumpolar Arctic environment as it existed in the past and hold the potential to improve our understanding of historical climate variability and environmental change in the Arctic.\n\nThe International Meteorological Organization, the predecessor of the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), proposed and promoted the second IPY (1932–1933). Shortly after World War I, mysterious behavior in telegraph, radio and electric power and telephone lines convinced engineers and scientists of the fact that the electrical geophysics of the Earth needed more study. The availability of airplanes, motorized sea and land transport and new instruments like radiosondes enabled these phenomena to be investigated.\n\nAt an international conference of directors of meteorological services in Copenhagen in 1928 it was decided to undertake another intensive and coordinated international research effort focused on the polar regions during 1932–1933, the 50th anniversary of the First International Polar Year. It was also proposed to explicitly include in the plan for the second IPY the goal to investigate how observations in the polar regions could improve the accuracy of weather forecasts and the safety of air and sea transport.\n\nForty-four countries participated in the second IPY, which heralded advances in meteorology, magnetism, atmospheric science, and in the “mapping” of ionospheric phenomena that advanced radio science and technology. 27 observation stations were established in the Arctic, a vast amount of data was collected and a world data center was created under the organization that eventually came to be called the World Meteorological Organization. Due to the global financial crisis (“The Great Depression”) at the time, the plan of erecting a network of stations in Antarctica had to be abandoned.\n\nSee International Geophysical Year\n\nThe fourth IPY (2007–2008) was sponsored by the International Council for Science (ICSU) and the World Meteorological Organization (WMO). The Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR), an interdisciplinary body of ICSU assumed responsibility for coordinating all IPY-related Antarctic research, and the International Arctic Science Committee (IASC), an ICSU affiliate body, promoted and helped to plan the Arctic-focused IPY research. Initial planning for the fourth IPY began in 2003 under an International Planning Group (chaired by Professor Chris Rapley and Dr Robin Bell), and the organization and implementation of the main phase of this IPY took place in 2005–2009 with leadership from the newly established ICSU-WMO Joint Committee (co-chaired by Dr Michel Béland and Dr Ian Allison, who was later replaced as co-chair by Prof. Jerónimo López-Martínez), its subcommittees and the International Programme Office (led by Dr David Carlson).\n\nThe fourth IPY comprised an intense, coordinated field campaign of observations, research, and analysis. It was the largest, most comprehensive campaign ever mounted to explore the Earth's polar regions. An estimated 50,000 researchers, local observers, educators, students and support personnel from more than 60 countries were involved in the 228 international IPY projects (170 in scientific research, one in data management, and 57 in education and outreach) and related national efforts. The IPY included intensive research and observation periods in the Arctic and Antarctic over a three-year timespan, which started 1 March 2007 and was formally concluded 12 June 2010 at the IPY Oslo Science Conference. However, many activities continued beyond that date. The IPY Science Program covered eleven areas: Polar atmosphere, Arctic ocean, Southern Ocean, Greenland ice sheet and Arctic glaciers, Antarctic ice sheets, Sub-glacial aquatic environments, Permafrost, Earth structure and geodynamics at the poles, Polar terrestrial ecology and biodiversity, Polar societies and social processes and Human health.\n\nIn 2011 the ICSU/WMO Joint Committee for the IPY published a comprehensive summary of IPY activities entitled \"Understanding Earth's Polar Challenges: International Polar Year 2007–2008\".\nThe report covers the development of IPY 2007–2008 for almost a decade, from 2001 to 2010. It comprises 38 chapters in five parts (Planning, Research, Observations, Outreach, and Legacies) and brings together hundreds of contributing authors from a wide range disciplines and more than 30 countries. This broad overview demonstrates the extensive and essential contribution made by participating nations and organizations, and provides a prospective blueprint for future polar research.\n\nA joint conference organized by SCAR and IASC under the overarching theme “Polar Research – Arctic and Antarctic perspectives in the International Polar Year” was held 8–11 July 2008 in St. Petersburg, Russia, and brought together Arctic and Antarctic researchers as part of the fourth IPY. The four-day meeting comprised 29 sessions with over 1400 attendees, 550 oral presentations and 670 posters.\n\nThe IPY Science Conference was held 8–12 June in Oslo, Norway and was organized by the WMO, ICSU, IASC and the Research Council of Norway and marked the official end of the fourth IPY.\nThe conference aim was to celebrate and publish early results from the International Polar Year 2007–2008 (IPY) and enable direct interaction among all IPY science cluster projects. There were over 2000 participants from over 60 countries.\nBuilding on the previous IPY Science Conference in Oslo, the IPY steering committee organized a science conference (22–27 April 2012) in Montréal, Canada, with the theme ‘From knowledge to action’. This conference examined the global impact and implications of International Polar Year activities. The aim of the IPY Science Conference in 2012 was to help shape stewardship, sustainable development and environmental protection goals for the strategic and highly valued polar regions. In total the IPY 2012 conference received 2134 abstracts with contributions from over 45 countries.\n\nAn important legacy of the IPY 2012 “From Knowledge to Action” Conference and the education and outreach efforts of the International Polar Year 2007 – 2008 was the establishment of Polar Educators International. This is a formal network of professionals involved in science education focused on promoting excellence in teaching polar science. Louise Huffman, co-chair of the IPY Education and Outreach Committee was one of the founding members.\n\nThe Association of Polar Early Career Scientists (APECS) was founded during the fourth IPY.\n\nFollowing a meeting in Stockholm at the end of September 2007, the IPY International Youth Steering Committee (IYSC) and the Association of Polar Early Career Scientists (APECS) merged under a new structure while maintaining the name ‘APECS’. The IPY International Youth Steering Committee (IYSC) had been established in 2004 to represent the needs of the youth during the fourth IPY, and the Association of Polar Early Career Scientists (APECS) had been established in 2006 to represent the needs and challenges faced by (post-)graduate students, post-docs, junior faculty, and research associates involved in polar research.\n\nAPECS aims to stimulate interdisciplinary and international research collaborations, provide opportunities for professional career development and develop effective future leaders in polar research, education and outreach. Jenny Baeseman, as the Founding Director of APECS, established the organisations first international secretariat in Tromsø, Norway during the IPY.\n\nIn order to provide a platform for a continued focus on the polar regions, the IPY International Programme Office organised Polar Weeks with the theme “What Happens at the Poles Affects Us All” in October 2009 and March 2010.\n\nTwice yearly polar weeks continue to this day and are organized by APECS. These weeks, coinciding with the polar equinoxes, are filled with outreach activities and events designed to engage school children and the wider public in polar science.\n\nThe International Polar Year Publications Database (IPYPD) attempts to identify and describe all publications that result from, or are about, any of the four IPYs that have been undertaken so far. The IPYPD is part of the IPY Data and Information Service (IPYDIS). The IPYPD has been created by the Arctic Science and Technology Information System (ASTIS), the Cold Regions Bibliography Project (CRBP), the Scott Polar Research Institute (SPRI) Library, the Discovery and Access of Historic Literature of the IPYs (DAHLI) project and NISC Export Services (NES).\nAs of February 2016, the database contains 6,724 records.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4132583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4132583", "title": "International Society of Biometeorology", "text": "International Society of Biometeorology\n\nThe International Society of Biometeorology (ISB) is a professional society for scientists interested in biometeorology, specifically environmental and ecological aspects of the interaction of the atmosphere and biosphere. The organization's stated purpose is: \"to provide one international organization for the promotion of interdisciplinary collaboration of meteorologists, physicians, physicists, biologists, climatologists, ecologists and other scientists and to promote the development of Biometeorology\".\n\nThe International Society of Biometeorology was founded in 1956 at UNESCO headquarters in Paris, France by S. W. Tromp, a Dutch geologist, H. Ungeheuer, a German meteorologist, and several human physiologists of which F. Sargent II of the United States became the first President of the society.\n\nISB affiliated organizations include: the International Association for Urban Climate, the International Society for Agricultural Meteorology, the International Union of Biological Sciences, the World Health Organization, and the World Meteorological Organization. ISB affiliate members include: the American Meteorological Society, the Centre for Renewable Energy Sources, the German Meteorological Society, the Society for the Promotion of Medicine-Meteorological Research e.V., International Society of Medical Hydrology and Climatology, and the UK Met Office.\n\nISB publishes the following journals:\n"}
{"id": "65132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65132", "title": "Inverted repeat", "text": "Inverted repeat\n\nAn inverted repeat (or IR) is a single stranded sequence of nucleotides followed downstream by its reverse complement. The intervening sequence of nucleotides between the initial sequence and the reverse complement can be any length including zero. When the intervening length is zero, the composite sequence is a palindromic sequence. For example, is an inverted repeat sequence.\n\nBoth inverted repeats and direct repeats constitute types of nucleotide sequences that occur repetitively. These repeated DNA sequences often range from a pair of nucleotides to a whole gene, while the proximity of the repeat sequences varies between widely dispersed and simple tandem arrays. The short tandem repeat sequences may exist as just a few copies in a small region to thousands of copies dispersed all over the genome of most eukaryotes. Repeat sequences with about 10–100 base pairs are known as minisatellites, while shorter repeat sequences having mostly 2–4 base pairs are known as microsatellites. The most common repeats include the dinucleotide repeats, which have the bases AC on one DNA strand, and GT on the complementary strand. Some elements of the genome with unique sequences function as exons, introns and regulatory DNA. Though the most familiar loci of the repetitive sequences are the centromere, and the telomere, a large portion of the repeated sequences in the genome are found among the noncoding DNA.\n\nInverted repeats have a number of important biological functions. They define the boundaries in transposons and indicate regions capable of self-complementary base pairing (regions within a single sequence which can base pair with each other). These properties play an important role in genome instability and contribute not only to cellular evolution and genetic diversity but also to mutation and disease. In order to study these effects in detail, a number of programs and databases have been developed to assist in discovery and annotation of inverted repeats in various genomes.\n\nBeginning with this initial sequence:\n\nThe complement created by base pairing is:\n\nThe reverse complement is:\n\nAnd, the inverted repeat sequence is:\n\n\"nnnnnn\" represents any number of intervening nucleotides.\n\nA direct repeat occurs when a sequence is repeated with the same pattern downstream. There is no inversion and no reverse complement associated with a direct repeat. The nucleotide sequence written in bold characters signifies the repeated sequence. It may or may not have intervening nucleotides.\nLinguistically, a typical direct repeat is comparable to saying \"bye-bye\".\n\nAn inverted repeat sequence with no intervening nucleotides between the initial sequence and its downstream reverse complement is a palindrome.     EXAMPLE:\n        Step 1: start with an inverted repeat: \n        Step 2: remove intervening nucleotides: \n        This resulting sequence is palindromic because it is the reverse complement of itself.\n\nThe diverse genome-wide repeats are derived from transposable elements, which are now understood to \"jump\" about different genomic locations, without transferring their original copies. Subsequent shuttling of the same sequences over numerous generations ensures their multiplicity throughout the genome. The limited recombination of the sequences between two distinct sequence elements known as conservative site-specific recombination (CSSR) results in inversions of the DNA segment, based on the arrangement of the recombination recognition sequences on the donor DNA and recipient DNA. Again, the orientation of two of the recombining sites within the donor DNA molecule relative to the asymmetry of the intervening DNA cleavage sequences, known as the crossover region, is pivotal to the formation of either inverted repeats or direct repeats. Thus, recombination occurring at a pair of inverted sites will invert the DNA sequence between the two sites. Very stable chromosomes have been observed with comparatively fewer numbers of inverted repeats than direct repeats, suggesting a relationship between chromosome stability and the number of repeats.\nTerminal inverted repeats have been observed in the DNA of various eukaryotic transposons, even though their source remains unknown. Inverted repeats are principally found at the origins of replication of cell organism and organelles that range from phage plasmids, mitochondria, and eukaryotic viruses to mammalian cells. The replication origins of the phage G4 and other related phages comprise a segment of nearly 139 nucleotide bases that include three inverted repeats that are essential for replication priming.\n\nTo a large extent, portions of nucleotide repeats are quite often observed as part of rare DNA combinations. The three main repeats which are largely found in particular DNA constructs include the closely precise homopurine-homopyrimidine inverted repeats, which is otherwise referred to as H palindromes, a common occurrence in triple helical H conformations that may comprise either the TAT or CGC nucleotide triads. The others could be described as long inverted repeats having the tendency to produce hairpins and cruciform, and finally direct tandem repeats, which commonly exist in structures described as slipped-loop, cruciform and left-handed Z-DNA.\n\nPast studies suggest that repeats are a common feature of eukaryotes unlike the prokaryotes and archaea. Other reports suggest that irrespective of the comparative shortage of repeat elements in prokaryotic genomes, they nevertheless contain hundreds or even thousands of large repeats. Current genomic analysis seem to suggest the existence of a large excess of perfect inverted repeats in many prokaryotic genomes as compared to eukaryotic genomes. Recently (2017) was found that inverted repeats are present in DNA of all mitochondrial and plastid genomes sequenced so far and are enriched especially in important regulatory regions like replication origin and D-loops.\n\nFor quantification and comparison of inverted repeats between several species, namely on archaea, see \n\nPseudoknots are common structural motifs found in RNA. They are formed by two nested stem-loops such that the stem of one structure is formed from the loop of the other. There are multiple folding topologies among pseudoknots and great variation in loop lengths, making them a structurally diverse group.\n\nInverted repeats are a key component of pseudoknots as can be seen in the illustration of a naturally occurring pseudoknot found in the human telomerase RNA component. Four different sets of inverted repeats are involved in this structure. Sets 1 and 2 are the stem of stem-loop A and are part of the loop for stem-loop B. Similarly, sets 3 and 4 are the stem for stem-loop B and are part of the loop for stem-loop A.\n\nPseudoknots play a number of different roles in biology. The telomerase pseudoknot in the illustration is critical to that enzyme's activity. The ribozyme for the \"hepatitis delta virus (HDV)\" folds into a double-pseudoknot structure and self-cleaves its circular genome to produce a single-genome-length RNA. Pseudoknots also play a role in programmed ribosomal frameshifting found in some viruses and required in the replication of retroviruses.\n\nInverted repeats play an important role in riboswitches, which are RNA regulatory elements that control the expression of genes that produce the mRNA, of which they are part. A simplified example of the flavin mononucleotide (FMN) riboswitch is shown in the illustration. This riboswitch exists in the mRNA transcript and has several stem-loop structures upstream from the coding region. However, only the key stem-loops are shown in the illustration, which has been greatly simplified to help show the role of the inverted repeats. There are multiple inverted repeats in this riboswitch as indicated in green (yellow background) and blue (orange background). \n\nIn the absence of FMN, the Anti-termination structure is the preferred conformation for the mRNA transcript. It is created by base-pairing of the inverted repeat region circled in red. When FMN is present, it may bind to the loop and prevent formation of the Anti-termination structure. This allows two different sets of inverted repeats to base-pair and form the Termination structure. The stem-loop on the 3' end is a transcriptional terminator because the sequence immediately following it is a string of uracils (U). If this stem-loop forms (due to the presence of FMN) as the growing RNA strand emerges from the RNA polymerase complex, it will create enough structural tension to cause the RNA strand to dissociate and thus terminate transcription. The dissociation occurs easily because the base-pairing between the U's in the RNA and the A's in the template strand are the weakest of all base-pairings. Thus, at higher concentration levels, FMN down-regulates its own transcription by increasing the formation of the termination structure.\n\nInverted repeats are often described as \"hotspots\" of eukaryotic and prokaryotic genomic instability. Long inverted repeats are deemed to greatly influence the stability of the genome of various organisms. This is exemplified in \"E. coli\", where genomic sequences with long inverted repeats are seldom replicated, but rather deleted with rapidity. Again, the long inverted repeats observed in yeast greatly favor recombination within the same and adjacent chromosomes, resulting in an equally very high rate of deletion. Finally, a very high rate of deletion and recombination were also observed in mammalian chromosomes regions with inverted repeats. Reported differences in the stability of genomes of interrelated organisms are always an indication of a disparity in inverted repeats. The instability results from the tendency of inverted repeats to fold into hairpin- or cruciform-like DNA structures. These special structures can hinder or confuse DNA replication and other genomic activities. Thus, inverted repeats lead to special configurations in both RNA and DNA that can ultimately cause mutations and disease.\n\nThe illustration shows an inverted repeat undergoing cruciform extrusion. DNA in the region of the inverted repeat unwinds and then recombines, forming a four-way junction with two stem-loop structures. The cruciform structure occurs because the inverted repeat sequences self-pair to each other on their own strand.\n\nExtruded cruciforms can lead to frameshift mutations when a DNA sequence has inverted repeats in the form of a palindrome combined with regions of direct repeats on either side. During transcription, slippage and partial dissociation of the polymerase from the template strand can lead to both deletion and insertion mutations. Deletion occurs when a portion of the unwound template strand forms a stem-loop that gets \"skipped\" by the transcription machinery. Insertion occurs when a stem-loop forms in a dissociated portion of the nascent (newly synthesized) strand causing a portion of the template strand to be transcribed twice.\n\nImperfect inverted repeats can lead to mutations through intrastrand and interstrand switching. The antithrombin III gene's coding region is an example of an imperfect inverted repeat as shown in the figure on the right.\nThe stem-loop structure forms with a bump at the bottom because the G and T do not pair up. A strand switch event could result in the G (in the bump) being replaced by an A which removes the \"imperfection\" in the inverted repeat and provides a stronger stem-loop structure. However, the replacement also creates a point mutation converting the GCA codon to ACA. If the strand switch event is followed by a second round of DNA replication, the mutation may become fixed in the genome and lead to disease. Specifically, the missense mutation would lead to a defective gene and a deficiency in antithrombin which could result in the development of venous thromboembolism (blood clots within a vein).\n\nMutations in the collagen gene can lead to the disease Osteogenesis Imperfecta, which is characterized by brittle bones. In the illustration, a stem-loop formed from an imperfect inverted repeat is mutated with a thymine (T) nucleotide insertion as a result of an inter- or intrastrand switch. The addition of the T creates a base-pairing \"match up\" with the adenine (A) that was previously a \"bump\" on the left side of the stem. While this addition makes the stem stronger and perfects the inverted repeat, it also creates a frameshift mutation in the nucleotide sequence which alters the reading frame and will result in an incorrect expression of the gene.\nThe following list provides information and external links to various programs and databases for inverted repeats:\n\n"}
{"id": "13133029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13133029", "title": "Kal-guksu", "text": "Kal-guksu\n\nKal-guksu (; literally \"knife noodles\") is a Korean noodle dish consisting of handmade, knife-cut wheat flour noodles served in a large bowl with broth and other ingredients. It is traditionally considered a seasonal food, consumed most often in summer. Its name comes from the fact that the noodles are not extruded or spun, but cut.\n\nThe record of noodles can be found in documents of the Goryeo era, but the descriptions are vague and the nature of the noodles isn't clear. In the 12th century document \"Goryeo dogyeong\" (hangul:고려도경, hanja:高麗圖經) it is mentioned that noodles were only eaten on special occasions, as wheat flour was very expensive, being imported from China. A cooking description can be found in a later document, \"The Best New Cooking Methods of Joseon\" (hangul:조선무쌍신식요리제법, hanja:朝鮮無雙新式料理製法), written in 1924. In the 1934 book \"Simple Joseon Cooking\" (hangul:, hanja:), the recipe calls for the noodles to be boiled and rinsed in cold water before adding broth and garnish, a method that differs from the modern version of boiling the noodles together with the broth.\n\nThe noodles are made with dough from wheat flour and eggs, and sometimes ground bean powder is added for texture. The dough is let to breathe, then rolled out thinly and cut in long strips. The broth for \"kalguksu\" is usually made with dried anchovies, shellfish, and kelp. Sometimes chicken broth would be used. In order to obtain a rich flavor, the ingredients are simmered for many hours. The noodles and various vegetables, most often Korean zucchini, potatoes, and scallions are added and boiled together. Usually seasoned with salt, the noodles are served with garnish of choice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49051693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49051693", "title": "List of Connecticut tree species", "text": "List of Connecticut tree species\n\nThis is a list of trees that grow in Connecticut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55409829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55409829", "title": "List of Lieutenants of Hampton Court Chase, Rangers of Bushy Park", "text": "List of Lieutenants of Hampton Court Chase, Rangers of Bushy Park\n\nThis is a list of Lieutenants and Keepers of Hampton Court Chase and ex officio (by virtue of that office) Rangers of Bushy Park.\n\nIn 1539 Hampton Court Chase was created an 'Honour' by an Act of Parliament instigated by Henry VIII and passed as a public act by approval of Parliament and the King. The title holder increasingly over time referred to as Ranger or Keeper of Bushey Park held as his domain the right to build and rebuild a grand house in Bushy Park coupled with a degree of local power and exercise likewise to the monarch in hunting rights. Henry thereby created the first forest since the New Forest of William the Conqueror and obtained the rights to a share of cattle and game in the extent to append to his \"close park\" to Hampton Court Palace taken from Wolsey. The area's other local landowners included principally manorial tenants of the confiscated Chertsey and Westminster Abbeys – and made all non-mete parts an overall chase for royal and official hunting parties for boar, game birds, hare, coneys and deer. Holding all persons to account for animal grazing and wood-taking financially were added benefits. The statute set up a new forest or chase for the king, to be called 'Hampton Court Chase' but which was smaller than the many square miles the King wished:\n\nThe bounds of the chase apart from Bushy Park took in the manors of Hampton, Hanworth, Kempton, Walton-on-Thames. Parliament, through the courts, was deemed to have strongly curtailed its royal forest rights so as not to impinge on freeholds nor main customary tenants lands in Molesey, Weybridge, Cobham and part of Esher, its furthest reach due to Henry's legal deed (indenture) of 1537.\n\nThe Ranger or Keeper in early years held the position of Housekeeper of the Palace. The rangership of the land in the bend of the river east of the Palace, the 'House' or 'Home' Park was usually separate. Kit Villiers, an ennobled courtier by James I, inherited the honour from his brother and took as his official seat Ashley House (and Ashley Park) in Walton on Thames. Reinstatement in wealth and titles to the Villiers (Earls of Jersey and Anglesey) family after the English Civil War failed to reunite the more southerly lands associated with the honour which were taken and sold in the course of the 1649-1660 Commonwealth of England. Some holders of the title lived in Bushy Park seasonally or as their main home. The monarch tended to grant the title to the main heir of the previous holder. Parliament in the English Interregnum granted the title to General Monck, who remained in favour in the English Restoration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19977069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19977069", "title": "List of Recent Holarctic Bird Species", "text": "List of Recent Holarctic Bird Species\n\nList of Recent Holarctic Bird Species is a 1977 book by Karel H. Voous, published by the British Ornithologists' Union. It contains a list of 1,921 bird species recorded from the Holarctic zoogeographic region. It was widely adopted by ornithologists in Europe as a standard baseline list. It was originally published in two parts in the BOU's journal Ibis: that covering the non-passerines in 1973, and the passerine part in 1977. The list has been reprinted twice, in 1980 and 1991. It contains a foreword by Sir Hugh Elliott.\n\nIn the western Palearctic region, the list adopts the same geographical limits as those used by the editors of the handbook \"The Birds of the Western Palearctic\". The whole of the Arabian peninsula and Iran are also included; further east, Voous followed the boundaries used by Hartert (1903–1923) and Vaurie (1959, 1965). In the Nearctic region, the list covers all of the continental U.S. and Canada, the Bahama Islands, plus the non-tropical parts of Mexico (defined as the states of Baja California, Sonora, Chihuahua, Durango, Zacatecas, Aguascalientes, Guanajuato, Querétaro, México, Distrito Federal, Coahuila and Nuevo León).\n\nVoous, K. H. (1977) \"List of Recent Holarctic Bird Species\" British Ornithologists' Union \n"}
{"id": "16988914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16988914", "title": "Moukhtar Dzhakishev", "text": "Moukhtar Dzhakishev\n\nMoukhtar Dzhakishev (; ) is a notable Kazakh businessman and the former head of Kazatomprom.\n\nDzhakishev graduated from the Moscow Engineering Physics Institute in 1986, majoring in the Physics of Solid Bodies. He remained there until 1990 to complete post-graduate work. From 1992 to 1997 he served as the head of Butya, then as the head of Alautransgaz from 1997 to 1998. He became the head of Kazakhstan's National Atomic Company (Kazatomprom), the position he held until 2001, when he became the Deputy Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources. In 2002 he once again became the head of Kazatomprom.\n\nIn late May 2009, he was removed from his position and arrested on charges of embezzling funds from the country's uranium industry. According to the country's National Security Committee, Dzhakishev allegedly appropriated 60% of Kazakhstan's uranium deposits as his personal property, which would amount to tens of billions of dollars. Several notable Kazakh entrepreneurs have criticized the arrest as politically motivated, and 22 executives signed an open letter criticizing the arrest's effects on the business environment in the country. In March 2010, he was sentenced to 14 years in a high security penitentiary. Despite Kazatomprom achieved the world leadership in uranium production in 2009 Dzhakishev has also been deprived of the right to occupy government positions for the following seven years, and was stripped of the Order of Kurmet, the Kazakh state award.\n\n"}
{"id": "41808834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41808834", "title": "National Petroleum Authority", "text": "National Petroleum Authority\n\nNational Petroleum Authority (NPA) is a statutory body set up by the Government of Ghana to regulate, oversee and monitor the Ghanaian petroleum industry. The authority was established after calls by the general public for efficiency, growth and stakeholder satisfaction in the industry. Hassan Tampuli currently heads the NPA.\nThe Authority was set up by Legislative Instrument of the Parliament of Ghana and it is powered by NPA Act of 2005. It is also known as ACT 691. The authority is headquartered in Accra.\n\nThe regulatory mission of the NPA allows it to regularly monitor and adjust the price of Petroleum products in Ghana.\n"}
{"id": "4585070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4585070", "title": "Non-cellular life", "text": "Non-cellular life\n\nNon-cellular life is life that exists without a cellular structure for at least part of its life cycle. Historically, most (descriptive) definitions of life postulated that a living organism must be composed of one or more cells, but this is no longer considered necessary, and modern criteria allow for forms of life based on other structural arrangements.\n\nThe primary candidates for non-cellular life are viruses. A minority of biologists consider viruses to be living organisms, but most do not. Their primary objection is that no known viruses are capable of autopoiesis, which means they cannot reproduce themselves: they must rely on cells to copy them. However, the recent discovery of giant viruses that possess genes for part of the required translation machinery has raised the prospect that they may have had extinct ancestors that could evolve and replicate independently. Most biologists agree that such an ancestor would be a \"bona fide\" non-cellular lifeform, but its existence and characteristics are still uncertain.\n\nEngineers sometimes use the term \"artificial life\" to refer to software and robots inspired by biological processes, but these do not satisfy any biological definition of life.\n\nThe nature of viruses was unclear for many years following their discovery as pathogens. They were described as poisons or toxins at first, then as \"infectious proteins\", but with advances in microbiology it became clear that they also possessed genetic material, a defined structure, and the ability to spontaneously assemble from their constituent parts. This spurred extensive debate as to whether they should be regarded as fundamentally organic or inorganic — as very small biological organisms or very large biochemical molecules — and since the 1950s many scientists have thought of viruses as existing at the border between chemistry and life; a gray area between living and nonliving.\n\nThe recent discovery of giant viruses (aka giruses, nucleocytoplasmic large DNA viruses, NCLDVs) has reignited this debate, since they are not only physically larger than previously known viruses, but also possess much more extensive genomes, including genes coding for aminoacyl tRNA synthetases, key proteins involved in translation, which were previously thought to be exclusive to cellular organisms. This raises the prospect that the giant viruses may have had extinct ancestors (or even undiscovered ones) capable of engaging in life processes (such as evolution and replication) independent of cells, and that modern viruses lost those abilities secondarily. The viral lineage including this ancestor would be ancient and may have originated alongside the earliest archaea or before the LUCA. If such a virus is discovered, or its past existence supported by further genetic evidence, most biologists agree that it would constitute a \"bona fide\" lifeform, and its descendants (at least the giant viruses, and possibly including all known viruses) could be phylogenetically classified in a fourth domain of life. Discovery of the pandoraviruses, with genomes are even larger than the other giant viruses and exhibiting particularly low homology with the three existing domains, further discredited the traditional view that viruses simply \"pick-pocketed\" all of their genes from cellular organisms, and further supported the \"complex ancestors\" hypothesis.\n\nOngoing research is being conducted in this area, using techniques such as phylogenetic bracketing on the giant viruses to infer characteristics of their proposed progenitor.\n\nFurthermore, Viral replication and self-assembly has implications for the study of the origin of life, as it lends further credence to the hypothesis that life could have started as self-assembling organic molecules.\n\nViroids are the smallest infectious pathogens known to biologists, consisting solely of short strands of circular, single-stranded RNA without protein coats. They are mostly plant pathogens and some are animal pathogens, from which some are of commercial importance. Viroid genomes are extremely small in size, ranging from 246 to 467 nucleobases. In comparison, the genome of the smallest known viruses capable of causing an infection by themselves are around 2,000 nucleobases in size. Viroids are the first known representatives of a new biological realm of sub-viral pathogens.\n\nViroid RNA does not code for any protein. Its replication mechanism hijacks RNA polymerase II, a host cell enzyme normally associated with synthesis of messenger RNA from DNA, which instead catalyzes \"rolling circle\" synthesis of new RNA using the viroid's RNA as a template. Some viroids are ribozymes, having catalytic properties which allow self-cleavage and ligation of unit-size genomes from larger replication intermediates.\n\nViroids attained significance beyond plant virology since one possible explanation of their origin is that they represent “living relics” from a hypothetical, ancient, and non-cellular RNA world before the evolution of DNA or protein. This view was first proposed in the 1980s, and regained popularity in the 2010s to explain crucial intermediate steps in the evolution of life from inanimate matter (Abiogenesis).\n\nIn discussing the taxonomic domains of life, the terms \"Acytota\" or \"Aphanobionta\" are occasionally used as the name of a viral kingdom, domain, or empire. The corresponding cellular life name would be Cytota. Non-cellular organisms and cellular life would be the two top-level subdivisions of life, whereby life as a whole would be known as organisms, Naturae, or Vitae. The taxon Cytota would include three top-level subdivisions of its own, the domains Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya.\n\n"}
{"id": "34389887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34389887", "title": "Oenoe (mythology)", "text": "Oenoe (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, the name Oenoe or Oinoe (; Ancient Greek: Οἰνόη means \"winy\") may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "3815020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3815020", "title": "Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge", "text": "Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge\n\nThe Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge is a 402,000‑acre (1,627 km) National Wildlife Refuge located in Charlton, Ware, and Clinch Counties of Georgia, and Baker County in Florida, United States. The refuge is administered from offices in Folkston, Georgia. The refuge was established in 1937 to protect a majority of the 438,000 acre (1,772 km) Okefenokee Swamp. The name \"Okefenokee\" is a Native American word meaning \"trembling earth.\"\n\nA wildfire which began with a lightning strike near the center of the Refuge on May 5, 2007 eventually merged with another wildfire which had begun near Waycross, Georgia on April 16 due to a tree falling on a power line. By May 28, more than had burned in the region, or more than 900 square miles (2300 km). \n\nNearly 400,000 people visit the refuge each year, making it the 16th most visited refuge in the National Wildlife Refuge System. It is the largest in acreage of any that is not located in a western state. In 1999, the economic impact of tourism in Charlton, Ware, and Clinch Counties in Georgia exceeded $67 million. The refuge has a staff of 16 with a fiscal year 2005 budget of $1,451,000. The refuge also administers the Banks Lake National Wildlife Refuge.\n\nThe swamp has a rich human history including Native American settlement, explorations by Europeans, a massive drainage attempt, and intensive timber harvesting.\n\nNative Americans inhabited Okefenokee Swamp as early as 2500 BC. Peoples of the Deptford Culture, the Swift Creek Culture and the Weeden Island Culture occupied sites within the Okefenokee. The last tribe to seek sanctuary in the swamp were the Seminoles. Troops led by General Charles R. Floyd during the Second Seminole War, 1838–1842, ended the age of the Native Americans in the Okefenokee.\n\nThe Suwannee Canal Company purchased 238,120 acres (963 km) of the Okefenokee Swamp from the State of Georgia in 1891 to drain the swamp for rice, sugar cane, and cotton plantations. When this failed, the company began industrial wetland logging as a source of income. Captain Henry Jackson and his crews spent three years digging the Suwannee Canal 11.5 miles (18.5 km) into the swamp.\n\nEconomic recessions led to the company's bankruptcy and eventual sale to Charles Hebard in 1901. Logging operations, focusing on the cypress, began in 1909 after a railroad was constructed on the northwest area of the swamp. More than 431 million board feet (1,020,000 m) of timber were removed from the Okefenokee by 1927, when logging operations ceased.\n\nThe \"Okefenokee Preservation Society\", formed in 1918, promoted nationwide interest in the swamp. With the support of State and local interests and numerous conservation and scientific organizations, the Federal Government acquired most of the swamp for refuge purposes in 1936.\n\nIn 1937, with Executive Order 7593 (later amended by Executive Order 7994), President Franklin Delano Roosevelt established the refuge, designating it as \"a refuge and breeding ground for migratory birds and other wildlife.\" The establishment of Okefenokee Refuge in 1937 marked the culmination of a movement that had been initiated at least 25 years earlier by a group of scientists from Cornell University who recognized the educational, scientific, and recreational values of this unique area.\n\nIn 1974, to further ensure the protection of this unique ecosystem, the interior sections of the refuge were designated a National Wilderness Area.\n\nIn 1986, the Okefenokee Refuge was designated by the Wetlands Convention as a Wetland of International Importance.\n\nOkefenokee NWR has an approved acquisition boundary of 519,480 acres (2,102 km), which is 123,480 acres (500 km) larger than its current area. Approximately 371,000 acres (1,500 km) of the Okefenokee Swamp wetlands are incorporated into the refuge. 353,981 acres (1,432 km) within the swamp were designated as the Okefenokee Wilderness, a part of the National Wilderness Preservation System when the Okefenokee Wilderness Act was passed in 1974, making it the third largest wilderness east of the Mississippi River.\n\nThe Okefenokee Swamp is a vast bog inside a huge, saucer-shaped depression that was once part of the ocean floor. The swamp now lies 103 to above mean sea level. Peat deposits, up to thick, cover much of the swamp floor. These deposits are so unstable in spots that trees and surrounding bushes tremble by stomping the surface. Native Americans named the area \"Okefenokee\" meaning \"Land of the Trembling Earth\". Swamp habitats include open wet \"prairies\", cypress forests, scrub-shrub vegetation, upland islands, and open lakes.\n\nThe Okefenokee Swamp is one of the world's largest intact freshwater ecosystems. It has been designated a Wetland of International Importance by the United Nations under the Ramsar Convention of 1971. The swamp is compared through research to wetlands worldwide. It is world-renowned for its amphibian populations that are bio-indicators of global health. Water from the Suwannee River Sill area is used as a standard reference by scientists throughout the world.\n\nThe slow-moving waters of the Okefenokee are tea-colored due to the tannic acid released from decaying vegetation. The principal outlet of the swamp, the Suwannee River, originates in the heart of the Okefenokee and drains southwest into the Gulf of Mexico. The swamp's southeastern drainage to the Atlantic Ocean is the St. Mary's River, which forms the boundary between Georgia and Florida.\n\nThe swamp contains numerous islands and lakes, along with vast areas of non-forested habitat. Prairies cover about 60,000 acres (240 km) of the swamp. Once forested, these expanses of marsh were created during periods of severe drought when fires burned out vegetation and the top layers of peat. The prairies harbor a variety of wading birds: herons, egrets, ibises, cranes, and bitterns.\n\nRefuge staff manages 33,000 acres (130 km) of uplands which are being restored to once-abundant longleaf pine and wiregrass habitat.\n\nRefuge staff and volunteers work to preserve the natural qualities of the swamp, provide habitat for a variety of wildlife, and provide recreational opportunities for visitors. They also conduct prescribed burns in upland areas, thin forests, create wildlife openings, plant longleaf pines, and monitor, manage, and improve wildlife populations and habitat.\n\nThe Okefenokee is a rainfall-dependent system, and when periods of drought occur, the area becomes susceptible to wildfire. A 20-to-30-year cycle of drought and fire has allowed the Okefenokee to exist as the unique wetland it is. These periods cause changes in the abundance of certain plants (more grasses growing in exposed areas) the nesting success of certain wading birds (failure in extreme drought), and the location of some species of wildlife (fish migrate into deeper lakes and channels and are followed by predators).\n\nWith its varied habitats, the Okefenokee has become an area known for its abundance of plants and animals. There are 621 species of plants growing in the swamp. Animals include 39 fish, 37 amphibian, 64 reptile, 234 bird, and 50 mammal species. The Okefenokee Swamp is world renowned for its amphibian populations that are bio-indicators of global health.\n\nWildlife species include raccoons, wading birds, ducks, alligators and other reptiles, a variety of amphibians, river otters, bobcats, raptors, red foxes, boars, minks, white-tailed deer, gray foxes, striped skunks, black bears, and songbirds.\n\nThe swamp habitat also provides for threatened and endangered species, such as red-cockaded woodpeckers, wood storks, indigo snakes, gopher tortoises and a wide variety of other wildlife species.\n\nThere are opportunities for hiking, hunting, fishing, canoeing, boating, photography and wildlife observation.\n\nThe Richard S. Bolt Visitor Center at Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) was built in 1967, with an auditorium addition in the early 1980s. The building is cedar-sided with open, vaulted ceilings and flagstone floors. It houses exhibits, Okefenokee Wildlife League bookstore sales area, office space for staff and volunteers, storage, and a 100-seat surround-sound auditorium.\n\nIn the late 19th century, W.T. Chesser and his family settled a small island on the eastern edge of the Okefenokee Swamp. He settled on a 592‑acre (2.4 km) island, now known as Chesser Island. The Chesser homestead still stands on the island. The last of the Chessers left the island in 1958, but many members of the Chesser family remain in the local area.\n\nLakes and slow-flowing water trails, called \"runs,\"cover much of the Okefenokee. More than 60 lakes dot the refuge, with depths ranging from a few feet to . The largest, Billy's Lake, is 3½ miles long and 100 to wide. Fishing is permitted year round in accordance with Georgia State fishing laws. Using live bait fish or trot lines is prohibited.\n\nThere are of trails in the swamp, of which 70 are open to day-use motorboat and under. Seven overnight shelters are available in the swamp's interior.\nThe refuge has six different boating trails (Red, Green, Blue, Purple, Orange, and Brown) giving users a choice of twelve different overnight canoe trips.\n\nThere are three major entrances to Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge, each with its own facilities and special character. From the open, wet \"prairies\" of the east side to the forested cypress swamps on the west, Okefenokee is a mosaic of habitats, plants, and wildlife. Entrance fees are required at each entrance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55601750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55601750", "title": "Okumino Pumped Storage Power Station", "text": "Okumino Pumped Storage Power Station\n\nThe Okumino Pumped Storage Power Station is a pumped-storage hydroelectric power station in Motosu in Gifu Prefecture, Japan.\nThe station has an installed capacity of .\n\n"}
{"id": "51894403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51894403", "title": "Onyx Solar", "text": "Onyx Solar\n\nOnyx Solar is a solar energy company founded in Ávila, Spain, in 2009 by Alvaro Beltran and Teodosio del Caño. It manufacturers Building-integrated photovoltaics (BIPV) and is known for its combination of energy preservation optimization and photovoltaic energy production in its implementations. They are actively cooperating with several universities, including Technical University of Madrid (UPM), Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and University of Barcelona.\n\nOnyx Solar has been involved with several solar energy research projects across the world. These projects include HERB, the retrofitting of residential buildings, in cooperation with the University of Nottingham and PVSITES, a project aimed to reduce market barriers for the large scale implementation of BIPV.\n\nThis company has also been involved with several solar energy research projects, any several of these projects have been in partnership with the European Commission. One example of an ongoing project with the European Commission is the ArtESun project, which seeks to bring new OPV (organic photovoltaic technologies) technologies to the thin-film PV market.\n\nIn March 2016, Onyx Solar signaled its completion of the installation of photovolatic glass at the entrance of the American Airlines Arena by announcing that its project had received the LEED Gold certification, which is the highest certificate for building sustainability. This project utilized around 300 crystalline silicon PV glass units, which were deployed in 14 circular skylights. This implementation allows American Airlines Arena to produce 34,500 kWh of solar power per year for on-site consumption.\n\nIn June 2016, Apple announced that it will be fitting its retail stores in San Francisco with walkable solar glass floors for the purpose of generating electricity. The integration of solar power directly into its retail stores has been used as an example of Apple's focus on renewable technology. These walkways will be constructed with Thin-film solar cell technology.\n\nOnyx Solar also documents all of its projects in its professional experience book. This book includes details about its involvement with the construction of the Dubai Frame and its ongoing (as of September 2016) work on the Tanjong Pagar building in Singapore (which will become the largest skyscraper in Singapore upon completion).\n\nOn June 30, 2015, Glass Magazine named Onyx Solar 2015's \"Most Innovative Glass Product\" for its Low-E Photovoltaic Glass. The reasons behind this award include the ability of this product's layers to filter out 95% of ultraviolet radiation and 85% of infrared radiation as well as its solar heat coefficient (from 10 to 40%). Onyx Solar claims that passive properties of its Low-E Photovoltaic Glass are at least on par with the most advanced conventional low-emissive glass.\n\nSeveral of the projects that Onyx Solar has participated in have also received awards. In 2014, the Novartis headquarters in the United States received the \"Best Sustainable Project in New York\" award from Engineering News-Record.\n"}
{"id": "849087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=849087", "title": "Organization of Solidarity with the People of Asia, Africa and Latin America", "text": "Organization of Solidarity with the People of Asia, Africa and Latin America\n\nThe Organization of Solidarity with the People of Asia, Africa and Latin America (Spanish\": Organización de Solidaridad con los Pueblos de Asia, África y América Latina)\", abbreviated as OSPAAAL, is a Cuban political movement with the stated purpose of fighting globalisation, imperialism, neoliberalism and defending human rights. It publishes the magazine \"Tricontinental\". The OSPAAAL was founded in Havana in January 1966, after the Tricontinental Conference, a meeting of leftist delegates from Guinea, the Congo, South Africa, Angola, Vietnam, Syria, North Korea, the Palestine Liberation Organization, Cuba, Puerto Rico, Chile and the Dominican Republic. Mehdi Ben Barka, the Moroccan leader of the Tricontinental Conference, disappeared the year before.\n\nOne of the main purposes of the organisation is to promote the causes of socialism and communism in the Third World; for example, OSPAAAL strongly supported Hugo Chávez. Social development, which the organization says is a human right, is a recurring theme in OSPAAAL publications.\n\nThe OSPAAAL was born out of the Tricontinental Conference in Havana, which Mehdi Ben Barka was preparing before his October 1965 assassination. The OSPAA (Organization for Solidarity for the People of Africa and Asia) had gathered itself for the first time in Cairo, Egypt in 1957. 500 delegates from 35 countries represented their national liberation movements and parties rather than states. It was led by Ismaël Touré, the brother of Ahmed Sékou Touré, president of Guinea. Ismaël Touré presided the board responsible of the solidarity funds, assisted by two vice-chairmen: Mehdi Ben Barka of Morocco and Chu Tzu-chi of the People's Republic of China. At that time, AAPSO (Africa Asian People's Solidarity Organization) was debating the inclusion of Cuba and the rest of the Caribbean and Latin America to the group, a question posed again in Cairo in June 1961 by the new commission, the Commission on Neocolonialism, which was presided by Ben Barka.\n\nWhile the Casablanca Group, founded in 1961, gathered \"progressive states\" (Egypt, Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Libya, and Morocco), the OSPAAL was an organization of movements, which aimed at creating national economic development plans for the newly independent states and break national isolation through internationalism. In exile, Ben Barka resided there six months in 1964. Amílcar Cabral, Malcolm X, and Che Guevara lived in the city around that time. Henri Curiel was there organizing \"solidarity networks,\" which trained African National Congress activists. (The ANC had been prohibited in 1960, and Curiel would be murdered in 1978). Ben Barka was going to create an anti-colonialist magazine titled \"The African Review\", but he decided to enlarge the union to Latin America.\n\nAfter the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion in 1961, Fidel Castro moved even closer to the Soviet Union. In February 1962, Cuba was expelled from the Organization of American States (OEA). On October 3, 1965, Ben Barka declared in a press conference prior to the Havana conference that the \"two currents of the world revolution would be represented there: the current born with the October Revolution and the national liberation revolutions' currents.\"\n\nThe fourth congress of the OSPAA, in Accra from May 6 to May 9, 1965, finally agreed on including Latin America and to take in account the founding January 1966 conference in Havana. In July, Medhi Ben Barka, who was presiding the preparatory council, assured the support of the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union, and defined the objectives of the new organization, summed up as \"total liberation:\" aid to national liberation movements (in particular to the Palestinian movement), intensification of violent and peaceful struggles on all three continents, support to the Cuban Revolution, suppression of foreign military bases, support of the nuclear disarmament option, and opposition to apartheid and racial segregation. In September, Ben Barka went to Havana to prepare the opening up of the conference on January 3, 1966. However, on October 29, 1965, he was disappeared in Paris, allegedly abducted by Moroccan secret agents. The Havana Conference thus took place without him, and the OSPAAAL was officially founded.\n\nFrom its foundation until the mid-1980s, OSPAAAL produced brightly coloured propaganda posters promoting their cause, however, financial difficulty and ink shortages forced the organization to stop producing these posters. However, in 2000, these posters began to be printed again.\n\nThese posters, as they intended to be internationalist, usually had their message written in Spanish, English, French, and Arabic. As opposed to being put up on walls around Cuba, these posters were instead folded up and stapled into copies of \"Tricontinental\", so that they could be distributed internationally. This allowed OSPAAAL to send its message to its subscribers around the world.\n\nAll OSPAAAL-Posters from the beginning until 2003 are documented and indexed in the book \"The Tricontinental Solidarity Poster\". One American, Jane Norling, is among the artists who designed posters for OSPAAAL, and is one of eight women who contributed designs for 22 of the approximately 326 OSPAAAL posters.\n\n\nGuide to the OSPAAAL Poster Collection. Special Collections and Archives, The UC Irvine Libraries, Irvine, California. \n\n"}
{"id": "57416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57416", "title": "Przewalski's horse", "text": "Przewalski's horse\n\nPrzewalski's horse ( ; ; Khalkha , \"takhi\"; Ak Kaba Tuvan: [] \"dagy\"; \"Equus przewalskii\" or \"Equus ferus przewalskii\"), also called the Mongolian wild horse or Dzungarian horse, is a rare and endangered horse native to the steppes of central Asia. At one time extinct in the wild (in Mongolia, the last wild Przewalski's horses had been seen in 1966), it has been reintroduced to its native habitat in Mongolia at the Khustain Nuruu National Park, Takhin Tal Nature Reserve, and Khomiin Tal. The taxonomic position is still debated, with some taxonomists treating Przewalski's horse as a species, \"E. przewalskii\", others as a subspecies of wild horse (\"E. ferus przewalskii\") or a feral variety of the domesticated horse (\"E. f. caballus\").\n\nCommon names for this equine include \"takhi\", Asian wild horse, and Mongolian wild horse. The horse is named after the Russian geographer and explorer Nikołaj Przewalski.\n\nMost \"wild\" horses today, such as the American mustang or the Australian brumby, are actually feral horses descended from domesticated animals that escaped and adapted to life in the wild. Przewalski's horse may never have been domesticated and has long been considered the only true wild horse extant in the world today. However, a 2018 DNA study suggested that modern Przewalski's horses may descend from the domesticated horses of the Botai.\n\nPrzewalski's horse was described in 1881 by L. S. Poliakov, although the taxonomic position of Przewalski's horse remains controversial and no consensus exists whether it is a full species (\"Equus przewalskii\"), a subspecies of the wild horse (\"Equus ferus przewalskii\", along with the other subspecies, domesticated horse \"E. f. caballus\", and the extinct tarpan \"E. f. ferus\")), or even a subpopulation of the domestic horse.\n\nEarly sequencing studies of DNA revealed several genetic characteristic of Przewalski's horse that differ from what is seen in modern domestic horses, indicating neither is ancestor of the other, and supporting the status of Przewalski horses as a remnant wild population not derived from domestic horses. The evolutionary divergence of the two populations was estimated to have occurred about 45,000 YBP, while the archaeological record place the first horse domestication about 5,500 YBP by the Botai culture. The two lineages thus split well before domestication, probably due to climate, topography, or other environmental changes.\n\nSeveral subsequent DNA studies produced partially contradictory results. A 2009 molecular analysis using ancient DNA recovered from archaeological sites placed Przewalski's horse in the middle of the domesticated horses, but a 2011 mitochondrial DNA analysis suggested that Przewalski's and modern domestic horses diverged some 160,000 years ago. An analysis based on whole genome sequencing and calibration with DNA from old horse bones gave a divergence date of 38–72 thousand years ago.\n\nA new analysis in 2018 involved genomic sequencing of ancient DNA from mid-fourth-millennium B.C. Botai domestic horses, as well as domestic horses from more recent archaeological sites, and comparison of these genomes with those of modern domestic and Przewalski's horses. The study revealed that Przewalski's horses not only belong to the same genetic lineage as those from the Botai culture, but were the feral descendants of these ancient domestic animals, rather than representing a surviving population of never-domesticated horses. The Botai horses were found to have made only negligible genetic contribution to any of the other ancient or modern domestic horses studied, which must then have arisen from an independent domestication involving a different wild horse population.\n\nThe karyotype of Przewalski’s horse differs from that of the domestic horse by an extra chromosome pair because of the fission of domestic horse chromosome 5 to produce the Przewalski’s horse chromosomes 23 and 24. In comparison, the chromosomal differences between domestic horses and zebras include numerous translocations, fusions, inversions and centromere repositioning. This gives Przewalski’s horse the highest diploid chromosome number among all equine species. They can interbreed with the domestic horse and produce fertile offspring (65 chromosomes).\n\nEvery Przewalski's horse presently living is descended from 9 of the 13 horses captured in 1945. Two of these were hybrids, one sired from a wild horse stallion and domestic mare and the other from a wild stallion and a tarpan mare. These 13 horses were descended, in turn, from about 15 captured around 1900. A cooperative venture between the Zoological Society of London and Mongolian scientists has resulted in successful reintroduction of these horses from zoos into their natural habitat in Mongolia; and , an estimated free-ranging population over 300 existed in the wild. From a population of 13 horses held in captivity in 1945, the total number by the early 1990s was over 1,500.\n\nA population introduced in 1998 exists in the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone protected from interference by humans, and is thought to be increasing in size.\n\nPrzewalski's females are able to give birth at the age of three and have a gestation period around 11 to 12 months. Their reproduction process is seasonal, and in Mongolia, the season is towards the end of May, June, or July. Mating stallions do not start looking for mating partners until the age of five. Instinctively, the stallion looks to create his own group of mares or else wanders until he finds a group with its own leader. If the stallion finds a group of mares with its own leader, the stallion usually fights the other leader stallion of the group. The mares adjust and follow the victor. Unlike most predators which are altricial (born helpless), most herbivores such as horses are precocial, meaning they come into the world relatively mature and mobile. They can typically keep up with the rest of the herd only a few hours after birth. The foals drink milk from the mares.\n\nPrzewalski's horse is stockily built in comparison to domesticated horses, with shorter legs. Typical height is about , length is about . They weigh around . The coat is generally dun in color with \"pangaré\" features, varying from dark brown around the mane (which stands erect) to pale brown on the flanks and yellowish-white on the belly and around the muzzle. The legs of Przewalski's horse are often faintly striped, also typical of primitive markings. The tail is about long, with a longer dock and shorter hair than seen in domesticated horses.\n\nThe hooves of Przewalski's horse are longer in the back and have significantly thicker sole horns than feral horses. This is beneficial, as it improves the performance of the hooves.\n\nThe Przewalski's horse has 66 chromosomes, compared to 64 in all other horse species.\n\nIn the wild, Przewalski's horses live in small, permanent family groups consisting of one adult stallion, one to three mares, and their common offspring. Offspring stay in the family group until they are no longer dependent, usually at two or three years old. Bachelor stallions, and sometimes old stallions, join bachelor groups. Family groups can join together to form a herd that moves together.\n\nThe patterns of their daily lives exhibit horse behavior similar to that of feral horse herds. Stallions herd, drive, and defend all members of their family, while the mares often display leadership in the family. Stallions and mares stay with their preferred partners for years. While behavioral synchronization is high among mares, stallions other than the main harem stallion are generally less stable in this respect.\n\nHorses maintain visual contact with their family and herd at all times, and have a host of ways to communicate with one another, including vocalizations, scent marking, and a wide range of visual and tactile signals. Each kick, groom, tilt of the ear, or other contact with another horse is a means of communicating. This constant communication leads to complex social behaviors among Przewalski's horses.\n\nPrzewalski horse's diet consists mostly of vegetation. Many plant species are in a typical Przewalski's horse environment, including: \"Elymus repens\", \"Carex \"spp., Fabaceae, and Asteraceae. While the horses eat a variety of different plant species, they tend to favor one species during a specific time of the year. In other words, Przewalski's horses have seasonal food preferences. In the springtime, they favor \"Elymus repens\", \"Corynephorus canescens\", \"Festuca valesiaca,\" and \"Chenopodium album\". In early summer, they favor \"Dactylis glomerata\" and \"Trifolium\", and in late summer, they gravitate towards \"E. repens\" and \"Vicia cracca\". In winter, for example, the horses eat \"Salix \"spp., \"Pyrus communis\", \"Malus sylvatica\", \"Pinus sylvestris\", \"Rosa\" spp., and \"Alnus\" spp. Additionally, Przewalski's horses may dig for \"Festuca\" spp., \"Bromus inermis\", and \"E. repens\" that grow beneath the ice and snow. Their winter diet is very similar to the diet of domestic horses. In the wintertime, Przewalski's horses experience hypodermis, a condition in which one’s metabolic rate slows down. They eat their food more slowly than they do during other times of the year. Looking at the species diet overall, however, Przewalski's horses most often eat \"E. repens\", \"Trifolium pratense\", \"Vicia cracca\", \"Poa trivialis\", \"Dactylis glomerata\", and \"Bromus inermis\".\n\nWater, along with grassy vegetation, is another major component of Przewalski's horse's diet. The water consumption of 12 female Przewalski's horses that were living in a semireserve over a course of 17 months show that, on average, a Przewalski's horse drinks between 2.4 and 8.3 l of water a day, which is less than the amount of water a domestic horse drinks daily. In fact, the Przewalski's horse that consumed the most water in the study drank on average 8.6 l of water a day. This almost equals the lowest amount of water consumption for a domestic horse, which is 8.4 liters a day.\n\nIn the 15th century, Johann Schiltberger recorded one of the first European sightings of the horses in the journal of his trip to Mongolia as a prisoner of the Mongol Khan. The horse is named after a Russian colonel of Polish descent, Nikolai Przhevalsky (1839–1888) (Nikołaj Przewalski in Polish). He was the explorer and naturalist who first described the horse in 1881, after having gone on an expedition to find it, based on rumors of its existence. Many of these horses were captured around 1900 by Carl Hagenbeck and placed in zoos. As noted above, about 12-15 reproduced and formed today's population.\n\nThe native population declined in the 20th century due to a combination of factors, with the wild population in Mongolia dying out in the 1960s. The last herd was sighted in 1967, and the last individual horse in 1969. Expeditions after this failed to locate any horses, and the species had been designated \"extinct in the wild\" for over 30 years.\n\nAfter 1945, only two captive populations in zoos remained, in Munich and in Prague. The most valuable group, in Askania Nova, Ukraine, was shot by German soldiers during World War II occupation, and the group in the United States had died out. Competition with livestock, hunting, capture of foals for zoological collections, military activities, and harsh winters recorded in 1945, 1948, and 1956 are considered to be the main causes of the decline in Przewalski's horse population. By the end of the 1950s, only 12 individual horses were left in the world.\nIn 1977, the Foundation for the Preservation and Protection of the Przewalski Horse was founded in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, by Jan and Inge Bouman. The foundation started a program of exchange between captive populations in zoos throughout the world to reduce inbreeding, and later began a breeding program of its own. As a result of such efforts, the extant herd has retained a far greater genetic diversity than its genetic bottleneck made likely.\n\nSince 1986, Chinese researchers have bred Prezewalski's horses in captivity, with the program seeing over 20 years of success.\n\nIn 1992, 16 horses were released into the wild in Mongolia, followed by additional animals later on. One of the areas to which they were reintroduced became Khustain Nuruu National Park in 1998. Another reintroduction site is Great Gobi B Strictly Protected Area, located at the fringes of the Gobi desert. Lastly, in 2004 and 2005, 22 horses were released by the Association Takh to a third reintroduction site in the buffer zone of the Khar Us Nuur National Park, in the northern edge of the Gobi ecoregion. In the winter of 2009-2010, one of the worst \"dzud\" or snowy winter conditions ever hit Mongolia. The population of Prezewalski's horse in the Great Gobi B SPA was drastically affected, providing clear evidence of the risks associated with reintroducing small and sequestered species in unpredictable and unfamiliar environments.\n\nSince 2011, Prague Zoo has transported 35 horses to Mongolia in eight rounds, in cooperation with partners (Czech Air Force, European Breeding Programme for Przewalski's Horses, Association pour de cheval du Przewalski : Takh, Czech Development Agency, Czech Embassy in Mongolia and others) and it plans to continue to return horses to the wild in the future. In the framework of the project Return of the Wild Horses, it sustains its activities by supporting local inhabitants. The zoo has the longest uninterrupted history of breeding Przewalski's horses in the world and keeps the studbook of this species.\n\nThe reintroduced horses successfully reproduced, and the status of the animal was changed from \"extinct in the wild\" to \"endangered\" in 2005. On the IUCN Red List, they were reclassified from \"extinct in the wild\" to \"critically endangered\" after a reassessment in 2008 and from \"critically endangered\" to \"endangered\" after a 2011 reassessment.\n\nWhile dozens of zoos worldwide have Przewalski's horses in small numbers, specialized reserves are also dedicated primarily to the species. The world's largest captive-breeding program for Przewalski's horses is at the Askania Nova preserve in Ukraine. Several dozen horses were also released in the area evacuated after the Chernobyl accident, which now serves as a deserted \"de facto\" nature reserve. In Chernobyl, the population reproduced at a high rate, reaching up to 200 individuals until poachers decreased their number to just 60 in recent years. , only an estimated 30–40 individuals remained. An intensely researched population of free-ranging animals was also introduced to the Hortobágy National Park\" puszta\" in Hungary; data on social structure, behavior, and diseases gathered from these animals are used to improve the Mongolian conservation effort.\n\nSeveral American zoos also collaborated in breeding \"E. f. przewalskii\" from 1979 to 1982. Recent advances in equine reproductive science in the United States also have potential to further preserve and expand the gene pool. In October 2007, scientists at the Smithsonian Institution's National Zoo successfully reversed a vasectomy on a Przewalski's horse — the first operation of its kind on this species and possibly the first ever on any endangered species. While normally a vasectomy may be performed on an endangered animal under limited circumstances, particularly if an individual has already produced many offspring and its genes are overrepresented in the population, scientists realized the animal in question was one of the most genetically valuable Przewalski's horses in the North American breeding program. The first birth by artificial insemination occurred on July 27, 2013, at the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute.\n\nLe Villaret, located in the Cevennes National Park in southern France and run by the Association Takh, is a breeding site for Przewalski's horses that was created to allow the free expression of natural Przewalski's horse behaviors. Eleven zoo-born horses were brought to Le Villaret in 1993. Horses born there are adapted to life in the wild; they are free to choose their own mates and must forage on their own. Such a unique breeding site was necessary to produce the individuals that were reintroduced to Mongolia in 2004 and 2005. In 2012, 39 individuals were at Le Villaret.\n\nThe Przewalski's Horse Reintroduction Project of China was initiated in 1985 when 11 wild horses were imported from overseas. After more than two decades of effort, the Xinjiang Wild Horse Breeding Centre has bred a large number of the horses, 55 of which were released into the Kalamely Mountain area. The animals quickly adapted to their new environment. In 1988, six foals were born and survived, and by 2001, over 100 horses were at the centre. , the center hosted 127 horses divided into 13 breeding herds and three bachelor herds.\n\nReintroductions organized by Western European countries started in the 1990s. These were later stopped, mostly for financial reasons. Prague Zoo started a new cycle of transporting horses to the wild, which, with the support of public and many strategic partners, continues today.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "408026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408026", "title": "Relativistic Doppler effect", "text": "Relativistic Doppler effect\n\nThe relativistic Doppler effect is the change in frequency (and wavelength) of light, caused by the relative motion of the source and the observer (as in the classical Doppler effect), when taking into account effects described by the special theory of relativity.\n\nThe relativistic Doppler effect is different from the non-relativistic Doppler effect as the equations include the time dilation effect of special relativity and do not involve the medium of propagation as a reference point. They describe the total difference in observed frequencies and possess the required Lorentz symmetry.\n\nAstronomers know of three sources of redshift/blueshift: Doppler shifts; gravitational redshifts (due to light exiting a gravitational field); and cosmological expansion (where space itself stretches). This article concerns itself only with Doppler shifts.\n\nRelativistic Doppler shift for the longitudinal case, with source and receiver moving directly towards or away from each other, is often derived as if it were the classical phenomenon, but modified by the addition of a time dilation term. This is the approach employed in first-year physics or mechanics textbooks such as those by Feynman or Morin.\n\nFollowing this approach towards deriving the relativistic longitudinal Doppler effect, assume the receiver and the source are moving \"away\" from each other with a relative speed formula_1 as measured by an observer on the receiver or the source (The sign convention adopted here is that formula_1 is \"negative\" if the receiver and the source are moving \"towards\" each other).\n\nConsider the problem in the reference frame of the source.\n\nSuppose one wavefront arrives at the receiver. The next wavefront is then at a distance formula_3 away from the receiver (where formula_4 is the wavelength, formula_5 is the frequency of the waves that the source emits, and formula_6 is the speed of light).\n\nThe wavefront moves with speed formula_6, but at the same time the receiver moves away with speed formula_8, so formula_9.\n\nThe period formula_10 and frequency formula_11 of light waves impinging on the receiver, \"as observed in the frame of the source,\" are\nwhere formula_15 is the speed of the receiver in terms of the speed of light.\n\nThus far, the equations have been identical to those of the classical Doppler effect with a stationary source and a moving receiver.\n\nHowever, due to relativistic effects, clocks on the receiver are time dilated relative to clocks at the source. The receiver will measure the received frequency to be\n\nwhere\n\nis the Lorentz factor.\n\nThe ratio\nis called the Doppler factor of the source relative to the receiver. (This terminology is particularly prevalent in the subject of astrophysics: see relativistic beaming.)\n\nThe corresponding wavelengths are related by\n\nIdentical expressions for relativistic Doppler shift are obtained when performing the analysis in the reference frame of the \"receiver\" with a moving source. This matches up with the expectations of the principle of relativity, which dictates that the result can not depend on which object is considered to be the one at rest. In contrast, the classic nonrelativistic Doppler effect \"is\" dependent on whether it is the source or the receiver that is stationary with respect to the medium.\n\nSuppose that a source and a receiver are both approaching each other in uniform inertial motion along paths that do not collide. The \"transverse Doppler effect\" (TDE) may refer to (a) the nominal blueshift predicted by special relativity that occurs when the emitter and receiver are at their points of closest approach; or (b) the nominal redshift predicted by special relativity when the receiver sees the emitter as being at its closest approach. The transverse Doppler effect is one of the main novel predictions of the special theory of relativity.\n\nWhether a scientific report describes TDE as being a redshift or blueshift depends on the particulars of the experimental arrangement being related. For example, Einstein's original description of the TDE in 1907 described an experimenter looking at the center (nearest point) of a beam of \"canal rays\" (a beam of positive ions that is created by certain types of gas-discharge tubes). According to special relativity, the moving ions' emitted frequency would be reduced by the Lorentz factor, so that the received frequency would be reduced (redshifted) by the same factor.\n\nOn the other hand, Kündig (1963) described an experiment where a Mössbauer absorber was spun in a rapid circular path around a central Mössbauer emitter. As explained below, this experimental arrangement resulted in Kündig's measurement of a blueshift.\n\nIn this scenario, the point of closest approach is frame-independent and represents the moment where there is no change in distance versus time. Figure 2 demonstrates that the ease of analyzing this scenario depends on the frame in which it is analyzed. \n\nThis scenario is equivalent to the receiver looking at a direct right angle to the path of the source. The analysis of this scenario is best conducted from the frame of the receiver. Figure 3 shows the receiver being illuminated by light from when the source was closest to the receiver, even though the source has moved on. Because the source's clock is time dilated as measured in the frame of the receiver, and because there is no longitudinal component of its motion, the light from the source, emitted from this closest point, is redshifted with frequency\n\nIn the literature, most reports of transverse Doppler shift analyze the effect in terms of the receiver pointed at direct right angles to the path of the source, thus \"seeing\" the source as being at its closest point and observing a redshift.\n\nGiven that, in the case where the inertially moving source and receiver are geometrically at their nearest approach to each other, the receiver observes a blueshift, whereas in the case where the receiver \"sees\" the source as being at its closest point, the receiver observes a redshift, there obviously must exist a point where blueshift changes to a redshift. In Fig. 2, the signal travels perpendicularly to the receiver path and is blueshifted. In Fig. 3, the signal travels perpendicularly to the source path and is redshifted.\n\nAs seen in Fig. 4, null frequency shift occurs for a pulse that travels the shortest distance from source to receiver. When viewed in the frame where source and receiver have the same speed, this pulse is emitted perpendicularly to the source's path and is received perpendicularly to the receiver's path. The pulse is emitted slightly before the point of closest approach, and it is received slightly after.\n\nFig. 5 illustrates two variants of this scenario. Both variants can be analyzed using simple time dilation arguments. Figure 5a is essentially equivalent to the scenario described in Figure 2b, and the receiver observes light from the source as being blueshifted by a factor of formula_24. Figure 5b is essentially equivalent to the scenario described in Figure 3, and the light is redshifted.\n\nThe only seeming complication is that the orbiting objects are in accelerated motion. An accelerated particle does not have an inertial frame in which it is always at rest. However, an inertial frame can always be found which is momentarily comoving with the particle. This frame, the \"momentarily comoving reference frame\" (MCRF), enables application of special relativity to the analysis of accelerated particles. If an inertial observer looks at an accelerating clock, only the clock's instantaneous speed is important when computing time dilation.\n\nThe converse, however, is not true. The analysis of scenarios where \"both\" objects are in accelerated motion requires a somewhat more sophisticated analysis. Not understanding this point has led to confusion and misunderstanding.\n\nSuppose source and receiver are located on opposite ends of a spinning rotor, as illustrated in Fig. 6. Kinematic arguments (special relativity) and arguments based on noting that there is no difference in potential between source and receiver in the pseudogravitational field of the rotor (general relativity) both lead to the conclusion that there should be no Doppler shift between source and receiver.\n\nIn 1961, Champeney and Moon conducted a Mössbauer rotor experiment testing exactly this scenario, and found that the Mössbauer absorption process was unaffected by rotation. They concluded that their findings supported special relativity.\n\nThis conclusion generated some controversy. A certain persistent critic of relativity maintained that, although the experiment was consistent with general relativity, it refuted special relativity, his point being that since the emitter and absorber were in uniform relative motion, special relativity demanded that a Doppler shift be observed. The fallacy with this critic's argument was, as demonstrated in section Point of null frequency shift, that it is simply not true that a Doppler shift must always be observed between two frames in uniform relative motion. Furthermore, as demonstrated in section Source and receiver are at their points of closest approach, the difficulty of analyzing a relativistic scenario often depends on the choice of reference frame. Attempting to analyze the scenario in the frame of the receiver involves much tedious algebra. It is much easier, almost trivial, to establish the lack of Doppler shift between emitter and absorber in the laboratory frame.\n\nAs a matter of fact, however, Champeney and Moon's experiment said nothing either pro or con about special relativity. Because of the symmetry of the setup, it turns out that virtually \"any\" conceivable theory of the Doppler shift between frames in uniform inertial motion must yield a null result in this experiment.\n\nRather than being equidistant from the center, suppose the emitter and absorber were at differing distances from the rotor's center. For an emitter at radius formula_25 and the absorber at radius formula_26 \"anywhere\" on the rotor, the ratio of the emitter frequency, formula_27 and the absorber frequency, formula_28 is given by\n\nwhere formula_30 is the angular velocity of the rotor. The source and emitter do not have to be 180° apart, but can be at any angle with respect to the center.\n\nThe analysis used in section Relativistic longitudinal Doppler effect can be extended in a straightforward fashion to calculate the Doppler shift for the case where the inertial motions of the source and receiver are at any specified angle.\nFig. 7 presents the scenario from the frame of the receiver, with the source moving at speed formula_8 at an angle formula_32 measured in the frame of the receiver. The radial component of the source's motion along the line of sight is equal to formula_33\n\nThe equation below can be interpreted as the classical Doppler shift for a stationary and moving source modified by the Lorentz factor formula_34\n\nIn the case when formula_36 and formula_37 one obtains the transverse Doppler effect:\n\nIn his 1905 paper on special relativity, Einstein obtained a somewhat different looking equation for the Doppler shift equation. After changing the variable names in Einstein's equation to be consistent with those used here, his equation reads\n\nThe differences stem from the fact that Einstein evaluated the angle formula_40 with respect to the source rest frame rather than the receiver rest frame. formula_41 is not equal to formula_42 because of the effect of relativistic aberration. The relativistic aberration equation is:\n\nSubstituting the relativistic aberration equation into yields , demonstrating the consistency of these alternate equations for the Doppler shift.\n\nSetting formula_44 in or formula_45 in yields , the expression for relativistic longitudinal Doppler shift.\n\nA four-vector approach to deriving these results may be found in Landau and Lifshitz (2005).\n\nFig. 8 helps us understand, in a rough qualitative sense, how the relativistic Doppler effect and relativistic aberration differ from the non-relativistic Doppler effect and non-relativistic aberration of light. Assume that the observer is uniformly surrounded in all directions by yellow stars emitting monochromatic light of 570 nm. The arrows in each diagram represent the observer's velocity vector relative to its surroundings, with a magnitude of 0.89 \"c\". \n\nReal stars are not monochromatic, but emit a range of wavelengths approximating a black body distribution. It is not necessarily true that stars ahead of the observer would show a bluer color. This is because the whole spectral energy distribution is shifted. At the same time that visible light is blueshifted into invisible ultraviolet wavelengths, infrared light is blueshifted into the visible range. Precisely what changes in the colors one sees depends on the physiology of the human eye and on the spectral characteristics of the light sources being observed.\n\nThe Doppler effect (with arbitrary direction) also modifies the perceived source intensity: this can be expressed concisely by the fact that source strength divided by the cube of the frequency is a Lorentz invariant This implies that the total radiant intensity (summing over all frequencies) is multiplied by the fourth power of the Doppler factor for frequency.\nAs a consequence, since Planck's law describes the black body radiation as having a spectral intensity in frequency proportional to formula_46 (where \"T\" is the source temperature and \"ν\" the frequency), we can draw the conclusion that \"a black body spectrum seen through a Doppler shift (with arbitrary direction) is still a black body spectrum\" with a temperature multiplied by the same Doppler factor as frequency.\n\nThis result provides one of the pieces of evidence that serves to distinguish the Big Bang theory from alternative theories proposed to explain the cosmological redshift.\n\nSince the transverse Doppler effect is one of the main novel predictions of the special theory of relativity, the detection and precise quantification of this effect has been an important goal of experiments attempting to validate special relativity.\n\nEinstein (1907) had initially suggested that the TDE might be measured by observing a beam of \"canal rays\" at right angles to the beam. Attempts to measure TDE following this scheme proved it to be impractical, since the maximum speed of particle beam available at the time was only a few thousandths of the speed of light.\n\nFig. 9 shows the results of attempting to measure the 4861 Angstrom line emitted by a beam of canal rays (a mixture of H1+, H2+, and H3+ ions) as they recombine with electrons stripped from the dilute hydrogen gas used to fill the Canal ray tube. Here, the predicted result of the TDE is a 4861.06 Angstrom line. On the left, longitudinal Doppler shift results in broadening the emission line to such an extent that the TDE cannot be observed. The middle figures illustrate that even if one narrows one's view to the exact center of the beam, very small deviations of the beam from an exact right angle introduce shifts comparable to the predicted effect.\n\nRather than attempt direct measurement of the TDE, Ives and Stilwell (1938) used a concave mirror that allowed them to simultaneously observe a nearly longitudinal direct beam (blue) and its reflected image (red). Spectroscopically, three lines would be observed: An undisplaced emission line, and blueshifted and redshifted lines. The average of the redshifted and blueshifted lines would be compared with the wavelength of the undisplaced emission line. The difference that Ives and Stilwell measured corresponded, within experimental limits, to the effect predicted by special relativity.\n\nVarious of the subsequent repetitions of the Ives and Stilwell experiment have adopted other strategies for measuring the mean of blueshifted and redshifted particle beam emissions. In some recent repetitions of the experiment, modern accelerator technology has been used to arrange for the observation of two counter-rotating particle beams. In other repetitions, the energies of gamma rays emitted by a rapidly moving particle beam have been measured at opposite angles relative to the direction of the particle beam. Since these experiments do not actually measure the wavelength of the particle beam at right angles to the beam, some authors have preferred to refer to the effect they are measuring as the \"quadratic Doppler shift\" rather than TDE.\n\nThe advent of particle accelerator technology has made possible the production of particle beams of considerably higher energy than was available to Ives and Stilwell. This has enabled the design of tests of the transverse Doppler effect directly along the lines of how Einstein originally envisioned them, i.e. by directly viewing a particle beam at a 90° angle. For example, Hasselkamp et al. (1979) observed the \"H\"α line emitted by hydrogen atoms moving at speeds ranging from 2.53×10 cm/s to 9.28×10 cm/s, finding the coefficient of the second order term in the relativistic approximation to be 0.52±0.03, in excellent agreement with the theoretical value of 1/2.\n\nOther direct tests of the TDE on rotating platforms were made possible by the discovery of the Mössbauer effect, which enables the production of exceedingly narrow resonance lines for nuclear gamma ray emission and absorption. Mössbauer effect experiments have proven themselves easily capable of detecting TDE using emitter-absorber relative velocities on the order of 2×10 cm/s. These experiments include ones performed by Hay \"et al.\" (1960), Champeney \"et al.\" (1965), and Kündig (1963).\n\nThe transverse Doppler effect and the kinematic time dilation of special relativity are closely related. All validations of TDE represent validations of kinematic time dilation, and most validations of kinematic time dilation have also represented validations of TDE. An online resource, \"What is the experimental basis of Special Relativity?\" has documented, with brief commentary, many of the tests that, over the years, have been used to validate various aspects of special relativity. Kaivola et al. (1985) and McGowan et al. (1993) are examples of experiments classified in this resource as time dilation experiments. These two also represent tests of TDE. These experiments compared the frequency of two lasers, one locked to the frequency of a neon atom transition in a fast beam, the other locked to the same transition in thermal neon. The 1993 version of the experiment verified time dilation, and hence TDE, to an accuracy of 2.3×10.\n\nFirst-year physics textbooks almost invariably analyze Doppler shift for sound in terms of Newtonian kinematics, while analyzing Doppler shift for light and electromagnetic phenomena in terms of relativistic kinematics. This gives the false impression that acoustic phenomena requires a different analysis than light and radio waves.\n\nThe traditional analysis of the Doppler effect for sound represents a low speed approximation to the exact, relativistic analysis. The fully relativistic analysis for sound is, in fact, equally applicable to both sound and electromagnetic phenomena.\n\nConsider the spacetime diagram in Fig. 10. Worldlines for a tuning fork (the source) and a receiver are both illustrated on this diagram. Events \"O\" and \"A\" represent two vibrations of the tuning fork. The period of the fork is the magnitude of \"OA\", and the inverse slope of \"AB\" represents the speed of signal propagation (i.e. the speed of sound) to event \"B\". We can therefore write:\n\nformula_52 and formula_53 are assumed to be less than formula_54 since otherwise their passage through the medium will set up shock waves, invalidating the calculation. Some routine algebra gives the ratio of frequencies:\n\nIf formula_53 and formula_52 are small compared with formula_59, the above equation reduces to the classical Doppler formula for sound.\n\nIf the speed of signal propagation formula_60 approaches formula_59, it can be shown that the absolute speeds formula_52 and formula_53 of the source and receiver merge into a single relative speed independent of any reference to a fixed medium. Indeed, we obtain , the formula for relativistic longitudinal Doppler shift.\n\nAnalysis of the spacetime diagram in Fig. 10 gave a general formula for source and receiver moving directly along their line of sight, i.e. in collinear motion.\nFig. 11 illustrates a scenario in two dimensions. The source moves with velocity formula_64 (at the time of emission). It emits a signal which travels at velocity formula_65 towards the receiver, which is traveling at velocity formula_66 at the time of reception. The analysis is performed in a coordinate system in which the signal's speed formula_67 is independent of direction.\n\nThe ratio between the proper frequencies for the source and receiver is\n\nThe leading ratio has the form of the classical Doppler effect, while the square root term represents the relativistic correction. If we consider the angles relative to the frame of the source, then formula_69 and the equation reduces to , Einstein's 1905 formula for the Doppler effect. If we consider the angles relative to the frame of the receiver, then formula_70 and the equation reduces to , the alternative form of the Doppler shift equation discussed previously.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32306782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32306782", "title": "Simon Walker (sailor)", "text": "Simon Walker (sailor)\n\nSimon Walker is an English yachtsman, adventurer and author. He is one of only a handful of people who have raced the wrong way around the world more than once.\n\nWalker raced on board Rhone Poulenc as the mate in the British Steel Challenge in 1992-3, and again as Skipper of Toshiba Wave Warrior in the next edition, the BT Global Challenge 1996-7. He finished 2nd overall and was the youngest skipper in the fleet.\n\nHe won the first Teacher's Whisky Round Britain Challenge race in 1995.\n\nHe then went on to become the Managing Director of the race organiser Challenge Business and was instrumental in the next two events, the BT Global Challenge 2000/1 and the Global Challenge 2004/5.\n\nHe is now an entrepreneur, author and speaker, specialising in leadership and in particular Generation Y. He is a co-founder of the online leadership coaching system, my360plus and the consultancy Talentsmoothie and the co-author of Generation Y: what they want from work.\n\n"}
{"id": "13441556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13441556", "title": "Soil biodiversity", "text": "Soil biodiversity\n\nSoil biodiversity refers to the relationship of soil to biodiversity and to aspects of the soil that can be managed in relation to biodiversity. Soil biodiversity relates to some catchment management considerations.\n\nAccording to the Australian Department of the Environment and Water Resources, biodiversity is \"the variety of life: the different plants, animals and micro-organisms, their genes and the ecosystems of which they are a part.\" Biodiversity and soil are strongly linked, because soil is the medium for a large variety of organisms, and interacts closely with the wider biosphere. Conversely, biological activity is a primary factor in the physical and chemical formation of soils.\n\nSoil provides a vital habitat, primarily for microbes (including bacteria and fungi), but also for microfauna (such as protozoa and nematodes), mesofauna (such as microarthropods and enchytraeids), and macrofauna (such as earthworms, termites, and millipedes). The primary role of soil biota is to recycle organic matter that is derived from the \"above-ground plant-based food web\".\n\nSoil is in close cooperation with the wider biosphere. The maintenance of fertile soil is \"one of the most vital ecological services the living world performs\", and the \"mineral and organic contents of soil must be replenished constantly as plants consume soil elements and pass them up the food chain\".\n\nThe correlation of soil and biodiversity can be observed spatially. For example, both natural and agricultural vegetation boundaries correspond closely to soil boundaries, even at continental and global scales.\n\nA \"subtle synchrony\" is how Baskin (1997) describes the relationship that exists between the soil and the diversity of life, above and below the ground. It is not surprising that soil management has a direct effect on biodiversity. This includes practices that influence soil volume, structure, biological, and chemical characteristics, and whether soil exhibits adverse effects such as reduced fertility, soil acidification, or salinisation.\n\nSoil acidity (or alkalinity) is the concentration of hydrogen ions (H) in the soil. Measured on the pH scale, soil acidity is an invisible condition that directly affects soil fertility and toxicity by determining which elements in the soil are available for absorption by plants. Increases in soil acidity are caused by removal of agricultural product from the paddock, leaching of nitrogen as nitrate below the root zone, inappropriate use of nitrogenous fertilizers, and buildup of organic matter. Many of the soils in the Australian state of Victoria are naturally acidic; however, about 30,000 square kilometres or 23% of Victoria's agricultural soils suffer reduced productivity due to increased acidity. Soil acidity has been seen to damage the roots of the plants. Plants in higher acidity have smaller, less durable roots. Some evidence has shown that the acidity damages the tips of the roots restricting further growth. The height of the plants has also seen a marked restriction when grown in acidic soils, as seen in American and Russian wheat populations. The number of seeds that are even able to germinate in acidic soil is much lower than the amount of seeds that can sprout in a more neutral pH soil. These limitations to the growth of plants can have a very negative affect on plant health, leading to a decrease in overall plant population.\n\nThese effects occur regardless of the biome. A study in the Netherlands examined the correlation between soil pH and soil biodiversity in soils with pH below 5. A strong correlation was discovered, wherein the lower the pH the lower the biodiversity. The results were the same in grasslands as well as heathlands. Particularly concerning is the evidence showing that this acidification is directly linked to the decline in endangered species of plants, a trend recognized since 1950.\n\nSoil acidification reduces soil biodiversity. It reduces the numbers of most macrofauna, including, for example, earthworm numbers (important in maintaining structural quality of the topsoil for plant growth). Also affected is rhizobium survival and persistence. Decomposition and nitrogen fixation may be reduced, which affects the survival of native vegetation. Biodiversity may further decline as certain weeds proliferate under declining native vegetation.\nIn strongly acidic soils, the associated toxicity may lead to decreased plant cover, leaving the soil susceptible to erosion by water and wind. Extremely low pH soils may suffer from structural decline as a result of reduced microorganisms and organic matter; this brings a susceptibility to erosion under high rainfall events, drought, and agricultural disturbance.\n\nSome plants within the same species have shown resistance to the soil acidity their population grows in. Selectively breeding the stronger plants is a way for humans to guard against increasing soil acidity.\n\nFurther success combatting soil acidity has been seen in soybean and corn populations suffering from aluminum toxicity. Soil nutrients were restored and acidity decreased when lime was added to the soil. The plant health was increased and root biomass increased in response to the treatment. This is a possible solution for other acidic soil plant populations \n\nSoil structure is the arrangement of particles and associated pores in soils across the size range from nanometres to centimeters. Biological influences can be demonstrated in the formation and stabilization of the soil aggregates, but it is necessary to distinguish clearly between those forces or agencies that create aggregations of particles and those that stabilize or degrade such aggregations. What qualifies as good soil contains the following attributes: optimal soil strength and aggregate stability, which offer resistance to structural degradation (capping/crusting, slaking and erosion, for example); optimal bulk density, which aids root development and contributes to other soil physical parameters such as water and air movement within the soil; optimal water holding capacity and rate of water infiltration.\n\nWell-developed, healthy soils are complex systems in which physical soil structure is as important as chemical content. Soil pores—which are maximized in a well-structured soil—allow oxygen and moisture to infiltrate to depths and plant roots to penetrate to obtain moisture and nutrients.\n\nBiological activity helps in the maintenance of relatively open soil structure, as well as facilitating decomposition and the transportation and transformation of soil nutrients. Changing soil structure has been shown to lead to reduced accessibility by plants to necessary substances. It is now uncontested that microbial exudates have a dominant role in the aggregation of soil particles and the protection of carbon from further degradation. It has been suggested that microorganisms within the soil \"engineer\" a superior habitat and provide a more sound soil structure, leading to more productive soil systems.\n\nTraditional agricultural practices have generally caused declining soil structure. For example, cultivation causes the mechanical mixing of the soil, compacting and sheering of aggregates and filling of pore spaces - organic matter is also exposed to a greater rate of decay and oxidation. Soil structure is essential to soil health and fertility; soil structure decline has a direct effect on soil and surface food chain and biodiversity as a consequence. Continued crop cultivation eventually results in significant changes within the soil, such as its nutrient status, pH balance, organic matter content, and physical characteristics. While some of these changes can be beneficial to food and crop production, they can also be harmful towards other necessary systems. For example, studies have shown that tilling has had negative consequences towards soil organic matter (SOM), the organic component of soil composed of plant and animal decomposition and substances synthesized by soil organisms. SOM plays an integral role in the preservation of soil structure, but the constant tilling of crops has caused the SOM to shift and redistribute, causing soil structure to deteriorate and altering soil organism populations (such as with earthworms). Yet in many parts of the world, maximizing food production at all costs due to rampant poverty and the lack of food security tends to leave the long term ecological consequences overlooked, despite research and acknowledgment by the academic community.\n\nSoil sodicity refers the soil's content of sodium compared to its content of other cations, such as calcium. In high levels, sodium ions break apart clay platelets and cause swelling and dispersion in soil. This results in reduced soil sustainability. If the concentration occurs repeatedly, the soil becomes cement-like, with little or no structure.\nExtended exposure to high sodium levels results in a decrease in the amount of water retained and able to flow through soil, as well as a decrease in decomposition rates (this leaves the soil infertile and prohibit any future growth). This issue is prominent in Australia, where 1/3 of the land is affected by high levels of salt. It is a natural occurrence, but farming practices such as overgrazing and cultivation have contributed to the rise of it. The options for managing sodic soils are very limited; one must either change the plants or change the soil. The latter is the more difficult process. If changing the soil, one must add calcium to absorb the excess sodium that blocks water flow.\n\nSoil salinity is the concentration of salt within the soil profile or on the soil surface. Excessive salt directly affects the composition of plants and animals due to varying salt tolerance – along with various physical and chemical changes to the soil, including structural decline and, in the extreme, denudation, exposure to soil erosion, and export of salts to waterways. At low soil salinity, there is a lot of microbial activity, that results in an increase in soil respiration, which increases the carbon dioxide levels in the soil, producing a healthier environment for plants. As the salinity of the soil rises, there is more stress on microbes because there is less available water available to them, leading to less respiration. Soil salinity has localised and regional effects on biodiversity, ranging, for example, from changes in plant composition and survival at a local discharge site through to regional changes in water quality and aquatic life.\n\nWhile very saline soil is not preferred for growing crops, it is important to note that many crops can grow in more saline soils then others. This is important in countries where resources such as fresh water are scarce and needed for drinking, and saline water is able to be used for agriculture. Soil salinity can vary between extremes in a relatively small area; this allows plants to seek areas with less salinity. It is hard to determine which plants are able to grow in soil with high salinity, because the soil salinity is not uniform, even in small areas. However, plants absorb nutrients from areas with lower salinity.\n\nSoil erosion is the removal of the soil's upper layers by the action of water, wind, or ice. Soil erosion occurs naturally, but human activities can greatly increase its severity. Soil that is healthy is fertile and productive. But soil erosion leads to a loss of topsoil, organic matter, and nutrients; it breaks down soil structure and decreases water storage capacity, in turn reducing fertility and the availability of water to plant roots. Soil erosion is therefore a major threat to soil biodiversity.\n\nThe effects of soil erosion can be lessened by means of various soil conservation techniques. These include changes in agricultural practice (such as moving to less erosion-prone crops), the planting of leguminous nitrogen-fixing trees, or trees that are known to replenish organic matter. Also, jute mats and jute geotextile nets can be used to divert and store runoff and control soil movement.\n\nMisconstrued soil conservation efforts can result in an imbalance of soil chemical compounds. For example, attempts at afforestation in the northern Loess Plateau, China, have led to nutrient deprivation of organic materials such as carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus.\n\nBiological systems—both natural and artificial—depend heavily on healthy soils; it is the maintenance of soil health and fertility in all of its dimensions that sustains life. The interconnection spans vast spatial and temporal scales; the major degradation issues of salinity and soil erosion, for instance, can have anywhere from local to regional effects – it may take decades for the consequences of management actions affecting soil to be realised in terms of biodiversity impact.\n\nMaintaining soil health is a regional or catchment-scale issue. Because soils are a dispersed asset, the only effective way is to ensure soil health generally is to encourage a broad, consistent, and economically appealing approach. Examples of such approaches as applied to an agricultural setting include the application of lime (calcium carbonate) to reduce acidity so to increase soil health and production, and the transition from conventional farming practices that employ cultivation to limited or no-till systems, which has had a positive impact on improving soil structure.\n\nSoils encompass a huge diversity of organisms which makes biodiversity difficult to measure. It is estimated that a football pitch contains underground as much organisms as equal to the size of 500 sheep. A first step has been taken in identifying areas where soil biodiversity is most under pressure is to find the main proxies which decrease soil biodiversity. Soil biodiversity will be measured in the future, especially thanks to the development of molecular approaches relying on direct DNA extraction from the soil matrix.\n\n"}
{"id": "3659079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3659079", "title": "Specific kinetic energy", "text": "Specific kinetic energy\n\nSpecific kinetic energy is kinetic energy of an object per unit of mass.\n\nIt is defined as formula_1.\n\nWhere formula_2 is the specific kinetic energy and formula_3 is velocity. It has units of J/kg, which is equivalent to m/s.\n"}
{"id": "32474581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32474581", "title": "Spriggite", "text": "Spriggite\n\nSpriggite is an uranyl hydroxide mineral with chemical formula Pb(UO)O(OH)·3HO. Its type locality is Mt Painter region, Arkaroola region, Flinders Ranges, South Australia. It was named after Reginald C. Sprigg (1919–1994).\n"}
{"id": "11018196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11018196", "title": "Staple (textiles)", "text": "Staple (textiles)\n\nStaple refers to fibre of discrete length and may be of any composition. A continuous fibre such as natural silk or synthetic is known as filament rather than staple fibre.\n\nBack-formation arising because part of the business of a wool-stapler was to sort and class the wool according to quality. According to Chambers Dictionary the actual word \"staple\" including staple foods and other products comes from the Low German word \"Stapel\" meaning a heap of goods to be sold.\n\nStaple length, a property of staple fibre, is a term referring to the average length of a group of fibres of any composition. Staple length depends on the origin of the fibres. Natural fibres (such as cotton or wool) have a range of lengths in each sample, so the staple length is an average. For synthetic fibres which have been cut to a certain length, the staple length is the same for every fibre in the group. \n\nStaple length is an important criterion for spinning fibre, as shorter fibres are more difficult to spin than longer ones, so staple length varies from short to longer length fibres, short fibers also resulting in more hairy yarns. \n\nFor cotton and wool, staple length was originally tested by hand, the tester removing a clump of fibre and then arranging it on a dark cloth for measurement. In the 1970s, machines were invented to do this task, taking around 5 minutes for cotton and for wool around 20 minutes. Today, machinery can take the measurement in seconds.\n\nThe opposite term is filament fibre, which is fibre that comes in continuous to near continuous lengths for use. Silk, taken from the cocoon of a silkworm, is a filament. Synthetic fibres can also be manufactured as filament. If the filament is then cut into discrete lengths, it becomes staple fibre.\n\nSee Staple (wool)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55534651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55534651", "title": "Superhump", "text": "Superhump\n\nIn astronomy, a superhump is a periodic brightness variation in a cataclysmic variable star system, with a period within a few percent of the orbital period of the system.\n\nSuperhumps were first seen in SU Ursae Majoris (SU UMa) stars, a subclass of dwarf novae, at times when the binary system underwent a superoutburst, which is an unusually strong outburst (increase in brightness) caused by an increased accretion rate.\n\nThe period of the superhump variations can be either greater or less than the orbital period, known as positive or negative superhumps respectively. The period excess is the difference between the superhump period and the orbital period, expressed as a fraction of the orbital period.\n\nThe accretion disk is elongated by the tidal force of the donor star. The elliptical disk precesses around the white dwarf accretor over a time interval much longer than the orbital period, the beat period, causing a slight change in the orientation of the disk over each orbit. Superhumps in cataclysmic variable stars are the result of viscous dissipation by periodic deformations of the disk. These deformations are caused by the presence of a 3:1 resonance between the orbital periods of the accretion disk and the donor star. Retrograde precession of the disk causes negative superhumps, with periods slightly less than the orbital period.\n\nSuperhumps can occur in dwarf nova systems in which the donor star (mass-losing star) has a mass that is at most 34 percent the mass of the accretor star (mass-gaining star). The amplitude can be up to 0.6 magnitudes.\n"}
{"id": "8076804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8076804", "title": "Ten Ten-Vilu", "text": "Ten Ten-Vilu\n\nTen Ten-Vilu or Trentren-Vilu (from Mapudungun \"Trengtrengfilu\": \"Trengtreng\" a name, and \"filu\" \"snake\") is the Mapuche god of Earth and Fertility (or goddess in some versions found in Chiloé); he has a generous spirit and is the protector of all life on Earth, and the flora and fauna and according to some Mapuche myths (later also found in Chiloé). This snake was a central figure in the Origin Of The Chiloean Archipelago. In Mapuche mythology, Ten Ten-Vilu is son of \"Antü\" (a Pillan spirit).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26433075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26433075", "title": "Western Himalayan broadleaf forests", "text": "Western Himalayan broadleaf forests\n\nThe Western Himalayan broadleaf forests is a temperate broadleaf and mixed forest ecoregion which is found in the middle elevations of the western Himalayas, including parts of Nepal, India, and Pakistan.\n\nThe ecoregion forms an area of temperate broadleaf forest covering in a narrow band between elevation, extending from the Gandaki River gorge in Nepal, through Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh in northern India, into disputed area of Jammu and Kashmir and parts of Pakistan. This ecoregion is drier and the forest is more fragmented than its Eastern Himalayan broadleaf forests counterpart, which receive more moisture from the Bay of Bengal monsoon but is still valuable habitat especially as part of the pattern of habitats found at different elevations on the Himalayan mountainsides. Many species of birds and animals migrate up and down the mountains seasonally from the grasslands of the plains below to the high peaks. \n\nAt lower elevations, this ecoregion grades into Himalayan subtropical pine forests. At higher elevations, it grades into Western Himalayan subalpine conifer forests as well as Northwestern Himalayan alpine shrub and meadows and Western Himalayan alpine shrub and meadows.\n\nThe Western Himalayan broadleaf forests may be divided into forests of two types: evergreen and deciduous broadleaved forests.\n\nThe evergreen broadleaf forest is dominated by oaks, consisting of \"Quercus semecarpifolia, Quercus leucotrichophora, Quercus floribunda, Quercus glauca and Quercus baloot.\" This forest is typically found on moister southern slopes, which are more influenced by the monsoon. Various Lauraceae call this forest home, including \"Machilus odoratissima, Litsea umbrosa, Litsea lanuginosa\", and \"Phoebe pulcherrima\". The understory features a rich assemblage of ferns, mosses, and epiphytes. On northern slopes, drier areas, and higher elevations, conifers like \"Abies, Picea, Cedrus\", and \"Pinus\" thrives\".\" The wild olive, ' 'olea cuspidata\" is found here too.\n\nThe deciduous forest is found along rivers west of the Gandaki River. It includes \"Aesculus indica\", \"Juglans regia, Carpinus viminea\", \"Alnus nepalensis\", and several \"Acer\" species like Acer caesium, Acer acuminatum, etc are found. In drier areas such as the valley of the upper Ghaghara River it includes \"Populus ciliata\", \"Ulmus wallichiana\", and \"Corylus colurna\" as well and the riverbanks are dominated by Himalayan alder (\"Alnus nitida\").\n\nAlthough there is less wildlife here than in the wetter Eastern Himalayas, this ecoregion is home to seventy-six species of mammals. These include the Asiatic black bear, leopard, the Himalayan tahr, and the threatened Himalayan serow (Capricornis thar). There is one endemic mammal, the Kashmir cave bat (\"Myotis longipes\") while the threatened Peter's tube-nosed bat (\"Murina grisea\") is near-endemic.\n\nAbout 315 species of birds have been recorded in this ecoregion from tiny warblers to large pheasants such as the western tragopan (\"Tragopan melanocephalus\"), satyr tragopan (\"Tragopan satyra\"), koklass pheasant (\"Pucrasia macrolopha\"), Himalayan monal (\"Lophophorus impejanus\") and cheer pheasant (\"Catreus wallichi\"). Near-endemic birds of the forests include the white-cheeked tit, white-throated tit, spectacled finch, Kashmir flycatcher, Tytler's leaf-warbler, orange bullfinch, and Kashmir nuthatch, while the Himalayan quail which used to be found here is now thought to be extinct.\n\nThe Himalayas receive large numbers of visitors every year including religious pilgrims and trekkers. Although there a large number of protected areas each of them are quite small and most of original forest has been cleared for logging or for agricultural land, a process which is ongoing. Only a third remains unspoilt, with the largest patches remaining in the west of the ecoregion and any forest clearance on these steep mountainsides quickly results in soil erosion and oversilting of the rivers below. Protected areas in this ecoregion include Askot Musk Deer Sanctuary, and parts of the Govind Pashu Vihar Wildlife Sanctuary, Rupi Bhabha Sanctuary and the large Kishtwar National Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28998397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28998397", "title": "Xiangshuishen", "text": "Xiangshuishen\n\nThe Xiangshuishen or Xiang River Goddesses are goddesses (or spirits, and sometimes gods) of the Xiang River in Chinese folk religion. The Xiang flowed into Dongting Lake through the ancient kingdom of Chu, whose songs in their worship have been recorded in a work attributed to Qu Yuan. According to \"Shanhaijing\" the Xiang River deities were daughters of the supreme deity, Di. According to a somewhat later tradition, the Xiang goddesses were daughters of the Emperor Yao, who were named Ehuang (; Fairy Radiance) and Nüying (; Maiden Bloom) who were said to have been married by him to his chosen successor, and eventually emperor, Shun, as a sort of test of his administrative abilities: then, later, they became goddesses, after the death of their husband.\n\nMythologically, according to the Ehuang-Nuying version, sometime in the twenty-third century BCE, before becoming divine goddesses, according to mythology, the two daughters of the emperor Yao, Ehuang and Nüying, were married to Shun, according to the plan of their father, Yao. Although later destined to be emperor and exemplar of all the virtues desirable in an emperor and exemplar for all future ages, before the marriage Shun was a simple farmer. Yao, however, was attempting to recruit worthy persons into the service of his government, the main reason being to solve the problem of the ongoing Great Flood that was devastating China. One suggestion from Yao's advisors (Four Mountains) was Shun. Yao inquired what sort of a person was Shun, and decided to try him upon being told that (although a direct lineal descendant of Zhuanxu) Shun the farmer was the son of Gu (also known as Gusou), a mean, violent, stupid, and difficult man (also old and blind optically and morally); that Shun lived with him and his proudful and abusive stepmother; and, a half brother, Xiang (who was evil) -- but nevertheless, due to the young (early thirties, but old to be unmarried) Shun's great filial piety the inherent wickedness of the family was kept in-check and outright evil avoided. In an early example of the imperial examinations in Chinese mythology, Yao decided to test the merit of Shun. According to Zhou Dunyi and others, as a test for Shun, Yao married his two daughters Ehuang and Nuying to him, and Shun took home his brides. The arrival of the future Xiang River Goddesses, Ehuang and Nuying provoked numerous problems: Shun's father had little or no liking for him, his step mother had no love for him, both wanted to seize his dowry of flocks of sheep and other cattle and huge measures of grains which he had received as a part of the marriage, and his half brother Xiang just wanted to kill him and take his wives and some of his other possessions for himself. Shun's father, stepmother, and half brother decided to murder Shun. One day Shun's father, Gu, asked him to repair the roof of a barn, which Shun mentioned to his wives. Ehuang and Nuying warned him of the murder attempt, and gave him a magical bird coat. Once Shun was up on the barn roof, his father, old Gu, set the barn on fire and took away the ladder; however, with the aid of the magical bird coat Shun flew to safety. Next, they tried to murder him in a well; but, again Ehuang and Nuying had prepared him for survival with a magical dragon coat which allowed him to swim out through a tunnel. Again, Ehuang and Nuying saved Shun from his murderous relatives by giving him a magically antidotal bath which foiled a plot to get him drunk and murder him. There are many versions of this mythology, and some of them omit the wives Ehuang and Nuying. In any case, Yao was well pleased with Shun's observed behavior, who maintained his filial piety while preserving his own interests as well, and so he promoted Shun into his civil service (which also allowed, or obligated, Shun together with Ehuang and Nuying to leave his home and murderous family behind). Later on, after Shun was promoted to emperor, Ehuang and Nuying were said to continue to provide Shun with invaluable advice contributing to his great success. (Murck 2000, 8-9; Wu 1982, 70-71; Yang and others 2005, 202-204).\n\nThe spots that appear on the stems of certain bamboos legendarily first appeared on the bamboo growing by the Xiang River, caused by the tears which fell upon them, shed by Ehuang and Nuying, the two Xiang River goddesses, mourning the disappearance and presumed death of their beloved husband, the Emperor and hero Shun. There are various versions of this mythological story; but, according to one version, in the last year of his reign Shun decided to tour the country of the Xiang River area. According to another version he was engaged in a military expedition versus the \"Miao\". Upon his sudden death during this journey, in the \"Wilderness of Cangwu\", near the headwaters of the Xiang River in the Jiuyi Mountains (sometimes translated as Doubting Mountain), both of his wives rushed from home to his body (or, in another version, to look for it, but were unable to find it), and then they wept by the river for days: their copious tears falling upon the bamboos by the river, stained them permanently with their spots.\n\nAccording to Sima Qian's \"History\" (Ch.6, \"Annals of the First Qin Emperor\"), in the 28th year of his reign (219 BCE), the Qin Emperor went on an excursion, wishing to visit the holy mountain of Heng (the southernmost of the Five Sacred Mountains of China, in present-day in Hunan). However, while attempting to travel there by boat, the emperor suddenly encountered a great wind which nearly prevented his safely reaching land (much less reaching his destination). The incident took place near the shrine of Xiang Jun (on Xiangshan, now an island in Dongting Lake). Upon inquiring about identity of Xiang Jun, the emperor learned that the name referred to the daughters of Yao and the wives of Shun who were buried at this location. Before returning home (by the different Wu Pass land route), the enraged emperor ordered 3000 convict laborers to cut down all of the trees on this mountain, and then to paint the entire mountain red. Part of the reason for the Qin emperor's fury was that the Xiang goddess(es) were patron deities of his old enemies of the Kingdom of Chu; the color red was intended to symbolize the color of the clothing mandated for convicted criminals.\n\nThe Xiang River Goddesses (or Deities) have been referenced in Classical Chinese poetry, as far back as the early southern anthology the \"Chu ci\", attributed to Qu Yuan.\n\n\n"}
