{"id": "16455155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16455155", "title": "Alba gu bràth", "text": "Alba gu bràth\n\nAlba gu bràth () is a Scottish Gaelic phrase used to express allegiance to Scotland. Idiomatically it translates into English as \"Scotland forever\" though the literal meaning of \"gu bràth\" in Gaelic is 'until Judgment'.\nThe phrase is often used as a political slogan in the campaign for Scottish independence.\n\nThe phrase is parallel to the Welsh language slogan \"Cymru am byth\" (\"Wales forever\") or the Irish \"Éirinn go Brách\" (\"Ireland Forever\").\n\nVarious (mis-)spellings are sometimes seen, for example: \"Alba go bragh, Alba gu bra, Alba go breá\".\n\nIn the 1995 film \"Braveheart\", Scottish patriot and national hero William Wallace (portrayed by Mel Gibson) shouts, \"Alba gu bràth\" as he gallops across the front of his assembled Scottish troops just prior to the Battle of Stirling Bridge.\n"}
{"id": "30880388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30880388", "title": "Alexander Hare", "text": "Alexander Hare\n\nAlexander Hare (1775–1834) was an English merchant, infamous for establishing a harem and following the local custom of trading slaves in his personal state of Maluka, southeast Borneo.\n\nThe son of a London watchmaker of the same name and his wife Janet, Alexander joined a trading company in Portugal around 1800, moved to Calcutta, and settled as a merchant in Malacca in 1807. Here he met Stamford Raffles, who appointed him Resident of Banjarmasin and Commissioner of the Island of Borneo when Dutch control briefly passed to Britain (1811–16). He acquired 1,400 square miles of land from the Sultan of Banjarmassen and established it as an independent state, Maluka, which issued its own coinage. An inquiry carried out by William Boggie, the British Resident in Samarang in 1837, uncovered how he had operated what became known as \"the Banjermassen (sic) Outrage\". He had to leave when the Dutch returned and he took his harem, and others, first to Batavia until declared undesirable in 1819, and then to South Africa until forced to leave in 1826, whence he went to settle the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Conflict with a disapproving John Clunies-Ross led to him leaving the Cocos Islands in 1831, some say for Singapore, others say Batavia, but Hare died in Bencoolen (modern day Bengkulu on the southwest coast of Sumatra) on 2 November 1834.\n\nAlexander had three brothers: David (b.1777), became a jeweller in Batavia, while John (b.1782) and Joseph (b.1784) were traders in colonial goods in London. The English censuses of 1851 and 1861 show Fatimah, Joseph's niece born in the East Indies, living in his London house: as she appears to have been born in 1837 she was presumably David's daughter. She married James Graham at St Peter's, Pimlico 22 May 1862 and died at London 1874.\n\nHare's story features in the novel \"The Daughter of the Pangaran\" by David Divine, published in 1963.\n"}
{"id": "290373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290373", "title": "Arcosanti", "text": "Arcosanti\n\nArcosanti is a projected experimental town with a molten bronze bell casting business in Yavapai County, central Arizona, 70 mi (110 km) north of Phoenix, at an elevation of 3,732 feet (1,130 meters). Its arcology concept was posited by the Italian-American architect, Paolo Soleri (1919–2013). He began construction in 1970, to demonstrate how urban conditions could be improved while minimizing the destructive impact on the earth. He taught and influenced generations of architects and urban designers who studied and worked with him there to build the proposed 'town.'\n\nThe goal of Arcosanti is to explore the concept of arcology, which combines architecture and ecology. The project has the goals of combining the social interaction and accessibility of an urban environment with sound environmental principles, such as minimal resource use and access to the natural environment. The project has been building an experimental town on 25 acres (10 ha) of a 4,060-acre (1,640 ha) land preserve.\nGround was broken in 1970 to begin construction on the site, and has continued at a varying pace through the present. The most recently completed building was finished in 1989. The population has tended to vary between 50 and 150 people, many of them students and volunteers. Ultimately, the goal has been for Arcosanti to house a population of 5,000 people. Thirteen major structures have been built on the site to date, some several stories tall. One master plan, designed in 2001, envisions a massive complex, called \"Arcosanti 5000\", that would dwarf the current buildings.\n\nMany features are particular to the design and construction of Arcosanti. For example, tilt-up concrete panels are cast in a bed of silt acquired from the surrounding area, giving the concrete a unique texture and color that helps it blend with the landscape. Many panels were cast with embedded art. Most buildings are oriented southward to capture the sun's light and heat — roof designs admit the maximum amount of sunlight in the winter and a minimal amount during the summer. The structure built to shelter bronze-casting is built in the form of an apse, a quarter-sphere or semi-dome. The layout of all the buildings is intricate and organic, rather than the grid typical of most US cities, with the goals of maximum accessibility to all elements, a combination of increased social interaction and bonds, together with privacy for the residents.\n\nExisting structures at Arcosanti are meant to begin to provide for the complete needs of a community. They include: a five-story visitors' center/cafe/gift shop; a bronze-casting apse; a ceramics apse; two large barrel vaults; a ring of apartment residences and quasi-public spaces around an outdoor amphitheater; a community swimming pool; an office complex, above which is an apartment that was originally Soleri's suite. A two-bedroom \"Sky Suite\" occupies the highest point in the complex; it, as well as a set of rooms below the pool, is available for overnight guests. Most of the buildings have accessible roofs.\nArcosanti has a Camp area, built by and for the original construction crew. It is used today as housing for people most interested in development of the agricultural department. Camp has a small greenhouse, with easy access to gardens and large agricultural fields that as of March 2017 were not being cultivated. Terraced greenhouses are planned along the slope of the main building site for winter plant and garden space, and to collect heat to distribute through the buildings.\n\nArcosanti was conceived of and remains primarily an education center, with students from around the world visiting to attend workshops, classes, and to assist with the continuing construction. 40,000 tourists visit yearly. Tourists can take a guided tour of the site or make reservations to stay overnight in guest accommodations.\n\nSome Arcosanti funding comes from selling the bells made and cast from clay and bronze on site. Additional funding comes from donations, and fees for workshops that last up to five weeks. Much of the present construction at Arcosanti has been done by workshop participants and volunteers. The average salary at Arcosanti is minimum wage.\n\nSince 1970, participants have come to help build Arcosanti by enrolling in workshops. During a standard five-week workshop, they attend lectures about Paolo Soleri and the principles of Arcology design while gaining hands-on learning experience by aiding construction. Although the program attracts many who are interested in art, crafts, architecture and urban planning, it is also pertinent to those interested in philosophy, sociology, science, and agriculture.\n\n1956 – Paolo and Colly Soleri purchased the land in Paradise Valley, Arizona, upon which the Cosanti studios were built. Their first official activities began there in 1959.\n\n1969: Arcosanti – Soleri coined the term \"Arcology\" to describe his designs for ecologically sound human habitats, as elaborated in \"The City in the Image of Man,\" published by MIT Press to accompany a so-titled 1970 exhibition at the Corcoran Gallery in Washington, DC. The book develops the concept of Arcology and its design variations for different settings. Arcosanti, introduced as the last (30th) example of this exercise, was originally planned to house a relatively small population of 1,500 people. The physical construction of Arcosanti began in 1970.\n\n1975-1977: Two Suns Arcosanti – The Xerox Corporation sponsored a major Soleri exhibition, featuring a series of new arcology designs that suggested a sustainable urban habitat employing alternative energy sources. The project was called \"Two Suns Arcology: The Cities Energized by the Sun.\" The Arcosanti master plan went through a major overhaul reflecting this methodology. In the following year, Plant Show venues gave Soleri additional funding to update the Arcosanti design. The projected population was increased to 5,000.\n\n1978: During a festival held at the site, a grass fire ignited in the area being used as a parking lot and over 180 cars were damaged or destroyed.\n1980: Critical Mass – Ten years into the construction of the first prototype arcology, a developmental adjustment was made to gain momentum for the project. The Critical Mass concept was introduced as an incremental phase to house 10 percent of the projected population of 5,000. A series of small-scale structures, providing various amenities, were designed to support a viable community. This was intended to support the next major step, the completion of Arcosanti.\n\n2009: Paolo Soleri's 90th Birthday Celebration and Alumni Reunion – Paolo Soleri celebrated his 90th birthday at Arcosanti, joined by 300 alumni and guests for the occasion. The official schedule started on June 19; this first day was devoted to alumni. Ongoing events included Kundalini yoga, a morning bell-carving workshop, a silent auction, and an exhibition with the newest renderings of Critical Mass. The festivities continued into the night with a bronze pour in the Foundry, followed by a techno party in the Vaults, and performances on a stage in the Ceramics Apse.\n\nThe birthday celebration for Soleri resumed on Saturday with attendees partaking in a gargantuan \"frugal soup\" gathering in the Vaults. Documentary film maker Geoffrey Madeja presented a short video. Tomiaki Tamura followed with a visual presentation of Paolo's life and work and a pictograph especially choreographed for Paolo. The final performance of the night was hosted by Flam Chen, in a series of acrobatics involving dazzling fire, lights, and extreme heights.\n\n2011: On July 14, 2011, the Cosanti Foundation announced that its founder Soleri had retired as its President and CEO. \"There are other things that I want to accomplish,\" said the 92-year-old Soleri. \"I am ready to leave the management of the Foundation and its primary project – the urban laboratory Arcosanti – to the next generation.\" That generation was to be led by Boston architect Jeff Stein, AIA. Stein's proposals for Arcosanti began with: a half-dozen new apartment buildings; a canopy for the amphitheater; a renovated commercial bakery; and a storage unit for Paolo Soleri's collection of architectural models.\nArcosanti operates under aegis of the Cosanti Foundation, a non-profit 501(c) 3 organization. The Foundation runs workshops to teach Paolo Soleri's ideas. As of 2012, more than 7,000 participants had aided in the construction through participation in five-week workshops. Each workshop includes a Seminar Week, which covers Soleri's background and history, as well as his concepts about arcology design. They hear lectures from different departments at Arcosanti to see how Arcosanti operates, and then spend the following weeks working at the priority project of the site.\n\nArcosanti is the home of the bell-making enterprise of Cosanti Originals, which sells Soleri's sculptural wind bells to support the greater architectural project.\n\nOver six years in the making, the (2013) feature-length documentary film on the life of Paolo Soleri and the birth of Arcosanti, \"The Vision of Paolo Soleri: Prophet in the Desert\" (2012) features on-camera interviews with journalist Morley Safer, Will Wright, architectural critic Paul Goldberger, Catherine Hardwicke, Will Bruder, Jean-Michel Cousteau, architect Steven Holl, and Eric Lloyd Wright.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51711170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51711170", "title": "Association of Fighters of Yugoslavia", "text": "Association of Fighters of Yugoslavia\n\nThe Association of Fighters of Yugoslavia (), known as Boj (an abbreviation, also meaning \"battle\"; members were known as ), was a Yugoslav nationalist organization in the Drava Banovina (Slovenia) of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, active between 1930 and 1935. It was established in 1929 as the Union of Slovene Soldiers (\"Zveza slovenskih vojakov\"), then renamed in 1930 to Union of Fighters (\"Zveza bojevnikov\"). The movement supported King Alexander's royal dictatorship (declared in 1929). It was approved by the Drava Banovina administration in 1931. In late 1933, the organization was renamed as the \"Association of Fighters of Yugoslavia\" (Združenje borcev Jugoslavije). It was merged along with other organizations, such as Yugoslav Action that was based mainly in Croatia, and groups surrounding the magazines of \"Zbor\" (\"Council\") and \"Otadžbina\" (\"Homeland\") based in Belgrade, and \"Budjenje\" (\"Awakening\") in Zrenjanin, to form the Yugoslav National Movement led by Dimitrije Ljotić in early 1935.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54380269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54380269", "title": "Bannu Resolution", "text": "Bannu Resolution\n\nThe Bannu Resolution (), or the Pashtunistan Resolution (), was a formal political statement adopted by Pashtun nationalists in Bannu that demanded the British offer the option of independence, rather than choosing between the independent dominions of India and Pakistan. The British refused the request, and the region voted overwhelmingly in favor of joining Pakistan in a July 1947 referendum.\n\nThe resolution was adopted on June 21, 1947, seven weeks before the Partition of British India, by Bacha Khan, Abdul Samad Khan Achakzai, the Khudai Khidmatgars, members of the Provincial Assembly, Mirzali Khan (Faqir of Ipi), and other tribal chiefs at a loya jirga held at Bannu, in British India’s North-West Frontier Province.\n\nThe resolution demanded that Pashtuns be given a choice to have an independent state of Pashtunistan, composing all Pashtun territories of British India - an exemption from the British plan to award territories in British India to either Pakistan or India. \n\nThe British Raj refused to consider the resolution's demands, because in July 1947, the Parliament of the United Kingdom passed the Indian Independence Act 1947 declaring that by 15 August 1947 it would divide British India into the two new independent dominions of India and Pakistan - with no option for further independent states.\n\nThe act also declared that the fate of the North West Frontier Province would be subject to the result of referendum. This was in accord with the June 3rd Plan proposal to have a referendum to decide the future of the Northwest Frontier Province—to be voted on by the same electoral college as for the Provincial Legislative Assembly in 1946.\n\nVoters in the North West Frontier Province voted overwhelmingly in favor of Pakistan versus India in the referendum held in July 1947. 289,244 (99.02%) votes were cast in favor of Pakistan, although turnout was low.\n"}
{"id": "91335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91335", "title": "Battle of Hemmingstedt", "text": "Battle of Hemmingstedt\n\nThe Battle of Hemmingstedt took place on February 17, 1500 south of the village of Hemmingstedt, near the present village of Epenwöhrden, in the western part of present-day Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. It was an attempt by King John of Denmark and his brother Duke Frederick, who were co-dukes of Schleswig and Holstein, to subdue the peasantry of Dithmarschen, who had established a peasants' republic on the coast of the North Sea. John was at the time also king of the Kalmar Union.\n\nThe ducal army consisted of the \"Great Guard\", 4,000 Landsknechts, commanded by a petty noble (Junker) named Thomas Slentz, 2,000 armoured cavaliers, about 1,000 artillery-men and 5,000 commoners. The defenders were about 1,000 men, all peasants. These men were a well-armed and well-organized militia, not the desperate, badly armed rabble associated with the term \"peasant army\".\n\nAfter seizing the village of Meldorf, the ducal army advanced, but was stopped at a barricade equipped with guns (). The defenders opened at least one dike sluice in order to flood the land, which quickly turned into morass and shallow lakes. Crammed together on a narrow road with no solid ground on which to deploy, the ducal army was unable to make use of its numerical superiority. The lightly equipped peasants were familiar with the land and used poles to leap over the ditches. Most of the ducal soldiers were not killed by enemy arms, but drowned. The conquest attempt was thus repelled. The casualties among the Dithmarsians are not known, but the Danish and the Dutch lost together more than half of their army, making about 7,000 men killed and 1,500 men wounded.\n\n The farmer (died 1506) was the leader and organiser of the peasants' defence. While he was a real person, the existence of other participants of the battle is not proven. For instance, the legendary Reimer von Wiemerstedt is said to have killed Junker Slentz, the chief of the \"Great Guard\"; another doubtful participant was the \"virgin\" Telse.\n\nMany details about the battle were made up later in order to heroize the defenders. In 1900 a monument to the defenders was raised. The cult reached its peak in the Nazi era, when local party members used the names of the battle participants for their propaganda. Today there is a more neutral museum at the site commemorating the battle.\n\nThe Battle of Hemmingstedt is a prime example of the use of terrain in military tactics. The Ditmarsians had taken a vow to donate a monastery in honour of the then national patron saint Mary of Nazareth if they could repel the invasion. In 1513 the Ditmarsians founded a Franciscan Friary in Lunden fulfilling their vow. The Ditmarsians also captured diverse banners and standards of the defeated enemies, among them the Danebrog. They were presented in St. Nicholas Church in Wöhrden until Frederick II of Denmark, victorious in the Last Feud against Dithmarschen in 1559, forced the Ditmarsians to return them.\n"}
{"id": "53912033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53912033", "title": "Block of Wikipedia in Turkey", "text": "Block of Wikipedia in Turkey\n\nOn 29 April 2017, Turkish authorities blocked online access to all language editions of the online encyclopedia Wikipedia throughout Turkey. The restrictions were imposed by Turkish Law No. 5651, due to the English version's article on state-sponsored terrorism, where Turkey was described as a sponsor country for ISIS and Al-Qaeda, which Turkish courts viewed as a public manipulation of mass media. Requests by the Turkish Information and Communication Technologies Authority to edit several articles to comply with Turkish law were not adhered to.\n\nAs of January 2018, Wikipedia was still banned in Turkey and Wikimedia Foundation Executive Director Katherine Maher did not know why. On 5 March 2018, Wikipedia's Facebook page started the \"We Miss Turkey\" () campaign and replaced the black censor bar over the Wikipedia logo with a red one. It also had an accompanying hashtag of the same name.\n\nSome countries have faulted Turkey for funding Islamist rebel groups in Syria, including al-Qaeda's affiliate in Syria, the al-Nusra Front. In October 2014, U.S. Vice President Joe Biden said that Turkey, Saudi Arabia and the UAE had \"poured hundreds of millions of dollars and tens of thousands of tons of weapons into anyone who would fight against Al-Assad\".\n\nThe block occurred on 30 April 2017, two weeks after the Turkish constitutional referendum, which was held on 16 April.\n\nOn 25 April, Turkey conducted several airstrikes on YPG, YPJ, and PKK facilities in both Syria and Iraq (Sinjar). 40 militants, including five Peshmerga soldiers, were killed at Iraq's Sinjar Mountains, and more than 20 YPG and YPJ fighters were killed on Syria's Mount Karakoc. The Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) threatened to withdraw from the operation to capture Raqqa if the United States did not take measures to stop Turkey's airstrikes against the group. In response, the US began to patrol the border alongside SDF troops in order to force a ceasefire between its two allies.\n\nOn 26 April, continuing the purges that started in 2016, 1,009 police officers were detained based on accusations of being secretly involved with the Gülenist network within the Turkish police force. 9,100 officers have been suspended. \nOn 29 April, 3,974 more civil servants were dismissed. Media outlets and reporters have been heavily targeted; 190 news organizations have been banned and at least 120 journalists have been imprisoned. Together with the ban of Wikipedia and television dating shows, \"The New York Times\" described the moves as \"an expand[ing] crackdown on dissent and free expression\".\n\nLaw No. 5651, known as the Internet Act (IA), was enacted on 4 May 2007. The purpose of this law was described by the now-defunct Presidency of Telecommunication and Communication as follows: \"There are two reasons for the law to be brought. The first reason: to determine the liability and the responsibility of collective use providers, access providers, location providers, and content providers, which are the main actors of the Internet. The other reason is to determine the procedures and fundamentals related to the specific crimes committed over the Internet and fighting these through content, location and access providers.\" More recently, the law has been used to censor individuals, journalists and the media. At least 127,000 websites are estimated to have been blocked in Turkey, along with another 95,000 individual web pages.\n\nOn the morning of 29 April 2017, following news from Turkey Blocks that all language editions of Wikipedia had been blocked in Turkey, several websites published articles about the event. Reuters and the BBC reported that the Turkish authorities had blocked all access to Wikipedia in the country beginning at 5:00 AM GMT. Turkey's Information and Communication Technologies Authority simply stated: \"After technical analysis and legal consideration based on the Law Nr. [sic] 5651 [governing the internet], an administrative measure has been taken for this website.\" \nUsers reported that they could only access Wikipedia using tools such as private VPNs.\n\nVoice of America reported that Turkish media had explained the block was a result of \"terror-related content\". Referring to an email statement made by the Transport, Maritime Affairs and Communications Ministry, Turkish News source Anadolu Agency reported that the block was due to its articles and comments describing Turkey's alleged involvement with terror groups. The ministry said, \"Instead of coordinating against terrorism, it has become part of an information source which is running a smear campaign against Turkey in the international arena.\"\n\nAfter court objection by Bilgi University professor Yaman Akdeniz, the Ankara 2nd Civil Court of Peace said that the causes of the block were the following articles on the English Wikipedia:\n\nOn 11 May 2017, Turkish Transport Minister Ahmet Arslan cited Wikipedia's featuring \"content creating a perception that Turkey is supporting terrorist organizations\" as a reason for the block.\n\nAccording to a BBC report, the \"Hurriyet\" daily newspaper said that Ankara had asked Wikipedia to remove the offending content, adding that the access ban would be lifted if Wikipedia met Turkey's demands. Later in the day, the provisional \"administrative measure\" was replaced by a court order, issued by the Ankara 1st Criminal Court of Peace, blocking Wikipedia as a \"protective measure\".\n\nAccording to a report by the Anadolu Agency, the country \"has a history of demanding that international websites take such steps as having a representative office in the country, complying with principles of international law, implementing court rulings, and not being part of any smear campaign or operation in Turkey\".\n\nOn 3 May 2017, the Wikimedia Foundation submitted an objection to the block to Ankara's 1st Penal Court of Peace, but it was rejected by the court on 5 May. The ruling stated that the country-wide block would continue as the \"offending\" pages had not been removed. The head of Turkey's Information and Communication Technologies Authority, Omer Fatih Sayan, explained: \"It is not possible to open access to Wikipedia so long as the decisions are not implemented.\" The same day, the Information and Communication Technologies Authority (BTK) published the following official statement:\nOn 2 May 2017, Istanbul Municipality removed Jimmy Wales, the founder of Wikipedia, from the guest list at the World Cities Expo event on smart cities to be held in the city from 15 to 18 May 2017, making the following announcement: \"Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales was disinvited [sic] from the 'World Cities Expo Event' and the decision has been communicated to him. Respectfully announced to the public.\" Wales had hoped to attend despite the Wikipedia block, commenting: \"I am looking forward to the visit. Istanbul is one of my favorite cities.\"\n\nRepublican People's Party (CHP) parliamentarians criticized the block, with Eren Erdem stating that the ban puts \"Turkey in line with North Korea\" and Barış Yarkadaş calling it \"censorship and a violation of the right to access information\". In a tweet made on the first day of the block, Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales expressed his support for those criticizing the decision as censorship, saying \"Access to information is a fundamental human right. Turkish people I will always stand with you to fight for this right.\" The Wikimedia Foundation, which runs Wikipedia, states that it is committed to keeping the site available in Turkey and pushing for a \"judicial review\" of the decision. \nOn 9 January 2018, Republican People's Party deputy Sezgin Tanrıkulu submitted a written parliamentary question regarding the block of Wikipedia, saying that it is against the Turkish constitution and European Convention on Human Right, and that \"the block should be partial according to Turkish laws\". Minister of transport, maritime and communication Ahmet Arslan denied that Wikipedia is blocked completely and he stated that the Wikipedia block is just partial due to Article 22 of the Constitution of Turkey and Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. \n\nNDTV said that the move caused strong reactions on social media against the decision to deny access to \"one of the world's most popular websites\".\n\nSix months into the block, Wikimedia Foundation Communication Director Juliet Barbara published an article about the efforts to remove the access ban.\n\nA year and a day into the block, on 30 April 2018, İYİ Party in a reference to the Turkish general election, 2018, vowed to host the \"reopening of Wikipedia\" with \"all of Turkey's citizens\" on the day after snap elections on June 24.\n\nMuharrem İnce, CHP's presidential candidate for the 2018 Turkish presidential election, also vowed to reopen Wikipedia during one of his campaign speeches on 22 May 2018. However, the election was won by the incumbent, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.\n\nActivists have created a copy of Turkish Wikipedia on the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS)—a way of addressing web content which the Turkish government cannot block due to its usage of decentralized open-source technology. The Turkish- and English-language mirror website TurkceWiki.org, which is unaffiliated with the Wikimedia Foundation, is among several Wikipedia mirrors available to Turkish users unable to access Wikipedia. The mirror site, nevertheless, omitted the \"offending\" sections that the Turkish authorities wanted removed from Wikipedia. To access the “mirrored” version, users type a “0” (zero) before “wikipedia” in the URL to access all Wikipedia content. \n\nUniversities in Turkey with eduroam coverage has full access to Wikipedia. As other Wikimedia projects aren't blocked in Turkey, Wikipedia is from some setups (e.g. Chromebook) intermittently accessible and available for article editing (which is not possible with most of VPN services) by setting the browser to use a domain name server (DNS) outside Turkey, browsing to a page of a different Wikimedia project and clicking the link to Wikipedia on that page.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "733317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=733317", "title": "British American Security Information Council", "text": "British American Security Information Council\n\nThe British American Security Information Council (BASIC) is a small, but influential, non-partisan think tank based in London. BASIC takes an inclusive approach to promote nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation by working with politicians, civil society, and other people who share this vision, as well as with those who might oppose it. \n\nBASIC currently has projects related to the UK Trident nuclear weapons debate, non-proliferation in the Middle East, and reframing the nuclear weapons debate. BASIC is also linked with the UK all-party parliamentary group on Global Security and Non-Proliferation. BASIC published the final report of the Trident Commission in July 2014, an independent and cross-party commission, co-chaired by Lord Browne of Ladyton, Sir Malcolm Rifkind, and Sir Menzies Campbell, examining the complexity of issues and options facing the UK government in the decision on its nuclear deterrent and its non-proliferation policy. The report recommended the continuation of the British nuclear program, conditional upon a number of actions needed to mitigate the negative impacts. \n\nBASIC is the only peace and security non-governmental organization that is British-American in composition and focus. It works on both sides of the Atlantic to encourage sustainable transatlantic security policies and to develop the strategies that can achieve them. BASIC partners with other international NGOs to promote public understanding of the danger of growing nuclear arsenals.\n\nBASIC has charitable status in the United Kingdom and a network of board members and advisers, and patrons on both sides of the Atlantic. BASIC's Executive Director is Paul Ingram, based in London. Senior Fellow Ward Wilson is based in Trenton, New Jersey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2837252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2837252", "title": "Bulavin Rebellion", "text": "Bulavin Rebellion\n\nThe Bulavin Rebellion (Astrakhan Revolt) is the name given to a war \nof Don Cossacks against Imperial Russia between the years 1707 and 1708. The war was led by Kondraty Bulavin, a democratically elected Ataman of Don Cossacks. The war was triggered by a number of underlying tensions between the Imperial government under Peter I of Russia, the Cossacks, and Russian peasants fleeing from serfdom in Russia to gain freedom in the autonomous Don area. It started with the assassination of Prince Yury Dolgorukov, the leader of Imperial army's punitive expedition to the Don area, by Don Cossacks under Bulavin's command. The end of the rebellion is associated with Bulavin's death in 1708.\n\nA number of social grievances were prevalent in the peasant population of Russia in the years leading up to the Bulavin Rebellion. Peter the Great's radical reforms designed to \"Westernize\" old Muscovy in the 18th century were met with widespread discontent. The pious, deeply conservative masses saw his reforms as an affront to their traditional way of life and to their Eastern Orthodox faith. Peter was even equated to the Anti-Christ and assumed to be an impostor posing as the true Tsar. On top of this, Peter's newly formed police state was expanding territorially, and by this expansion was encroaching upon salt resource sites coveted by the Cossacks for preservation of their foods. This dispute over land was in one sense an economic issue, but the Cossacks also regarded this as an intrusion upon their semi-autonomous political state. In general, the entire rural Russian atmosphere was in an agitated state, waiting for a catalyst of some kind.\n\nIn response to the constraints and fears of living in Peter's police state, large numbers of serfs absconded, abandoning the major urban areas, especially Moscow and the new capital at St. Petersburg. While some groups emigrated to Poland or Austria, many chose to avoid the border patrols and instead fled to the rural periphery and the river regions already inhabited by the Cossacks. It was Peter's policy to hunt down and arrest absconders and return them to their lords where they could be counted for taxes, a policy which, by this time, had no statute of limitations. In accordance with this policy, Peter deployed a group of bounty hunters under Yuri Dolgoruki to scout the Cossack regions for fugitive peasants. Despite the fact that the Cossacks harbored some resentment towards the peasants (for overpopulating their region and generally competing for local resources), more deplorable to them was the idea of Petrine agents roaming freely through their territory. They not only refused to give up the fugitive peasants, but on 8 October 1707 a small band of local \"atamans\" headed by Kondraty Bulavin ambushed and murdered Dolgoruki and his men in the village of Shulgin on the Aidar River, opening the door to violence and beginning the Bulavin Rebellion.\n\nLittle is known about Bulavin personally, but he was born into a Cossack family and would have been old enough to remember Stenka Razin and the revolt of the late 17th century. He developed some combat experience fighting the Kuban and Crimean Tatars in his youth. However, he was never a particularly great military commander, and throughout the rebellion that bears his name, he would forever fall short of becoming an undisputed leader. By 1704, he had risen to the status of ataman of Bakhmut, a position he held until 1706. It was during this stint that he orchestrated and participated in the destruction of the salt works on the Severski Donets, an act of retaliation for having been evicted by the government as squatters. This conflict was never entirely resolved and was ultimately absorbed into the greater rebellion as it gained momentum. Bulavin was most likely illiterate, but like his contemporary revolutionaries, he possessed a talent for appealing to the people and inciting them to action.\n\nBulavin's rally cries were simple: the goal was to move against Moscow and destroy the evil influences on the Tsar. It is important to note that the rebellion was not against the institution of Tsardom but against the figures in power at the time. It was generally believed that Peter was either not who he claimed (i.e. the Antichrist sitting in place of the true Tsar who was hidden away), or that he was indeed the rightful Tsar but was under the control of evil advisers whose destruction would liberate him, and that if given the freedom to act, he would repudiate all of his wicked reforms.\n\nThe rebellion suffered from a number of weaknesses. For one, despite all of his rallying, Bulavin never offered a pretender to the throne or suggested a \"just tsar\" to replace Peter. This blunder would condemn the rebellion's end goals to ambiguity and would let slip an immeasurable amount of support he might have mustered. Second, Bulavin did not coordinate his efforts with any other pre-existing Muscovite enemies, so despite being heavily engaged in war with Sweden, the military apparatus under Peter was not as divided as it could have been and found the rebellion to be more of a nuisance than a major conflict. By means of its vastly superior size and efficiency, the regular army was ultimately capable of stamping out the rebellion at all levels. In the end, angered by devastating reversals and Bulavin's tiring claims, factions of his own Cossack followers turned against him. He was found dead on 7 July 1708, having been shot in the head. It is not known whether the wound was self-inflicted or an act of treachery. Following Bulavin's death, the rebellion petered out, with pockets of resistance persisting through 1709, but for all intents and purposes, the conflict was over.\n\nAs mentioned, the Bulavin Rebellion bore striking similarities to Razin's Revolt a generation earlier. Both were Cossack rebellions in part, aimed against an imposing governmental institution and driven by animosity for the miserable state of peasant life. They effectively set the stage for the Pugachev Uprising under Catherine the Great.\n\nIn response to the uprising, Peter tightened his grip on the Cossack states, causing some 2000 under Ignat Nekrasov to flee to the protection of the Crimean Khanate. Descendants of these Nekrasovites would relocate to Anatolia during the Pugachev Uprising and settle near Constantinople, where their traditional culture would continue to the present day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31924586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31924586", "title": "Clouding agent", "text": "Clouding agent\n\nClouding agents or Cloudy Agent/Cloudifier are a type of food additive used to make beverages such as fruit juices to look more cloudy, and thus more natural-looking and visually appealing, typically by creating an emulsion of oil droplets. \n\nNatural fruit juices are often opalescent. Its turbidity is caused by the protein, oil or pectin particles from plant cell fragments. And consumers would expect the appearance of fruit flavored beverages to have similar color performance as natural fruit juice. To mimic the visual effect, low-juice content soft drinks would add clouding agent in it.\n\nCommon clouding agents include palm oil, Arabic gum and extracts of citrus fruits, and some would use Titanium Dioxide to enhance their color strength. Recent studies showed Titanium Dioxide might have risk when in nano-particles size.\n\nThe illegal use of the plasticizer DEHP in clouding agents has been reported in Taiwan on 2011.\n"}
{"id": "42043567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42043567", "title": "Corruption in Iraq", "text": "Corruption in Iraq\n\nCorruption is pervasive at all levels of government in Iraq. Public survey from Transparency International indicates that a majority of general public is not satisfied with the government's current efforts in fighting corruption. Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 169th place out of 180 countries.\n\nPolitical parties and public servants are considered corrupt, and petty corruption is highly institutionalized in Iraqi society.\n\nCorruption is considered an obstacle for doing business in Iraq, and red tape and inefficiency continue to persist. Government contracting is an area reported to be affected by high-levels of illicit activity, and public contracts are often awarded to companies connected to political leaders. Investors may come under pressure to take on well-connected local partners to avoid bureaucratic hurdles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1583236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1583236", "title": "Counterplan", "text": "Counterplan\n\nA counterplan is a component of debate theory commonly employed in the activity of parliamentary and policy debate. While some conceptions of debate theory require the negative position in a debate to defend the status quo against an affirmative position or plan, a counterplan allows the negative to defend a separate plan or an advocacy. It also allows the aff to run disadvantages against the neg.\n\nThe modern counterplan was invented by Jishnu Guha-Majumdar while debating at the University of Texas.\n\nMost forms of debate begin from some resolution or statement of advocacy. As the affirmative plan affirms the resolution in theory or at least within the sphere of its distinct existence, it is reasonable to assume that the negative team must advocate the negation of the resolution, usually either through the defense of the status quo or a counterplan distinct from the resolutional advocacy. However, in many circles, the affirmative ability to select their specific plan gives the negative justification to select another topical plan, so long it is 'competitive' with the plan. Advocates of this view, which has become increasingly popular in national circuit high school debate, believe that once the affirmative selects its specific plan so long as it is topical, it abandons any further tie to the resolution and cedes the remaining ground of advocacy to the negative. Moreover, they argue that if topical ground is exclusively affirmative, then the negative could be allowed to attack other potential examples of the resolution that might not be as advantageous as the affirmative plan. This conception is related to the debate paradigm and argumentation theory concept of hypothesis testing.\n\nThere is also a small subset of debate theory that asserts that \"only\" topical counterplans should be allowed. This theory is often called \"Plan-Plan\" and argues that the affirmative should have the burden to prove that its policy is the best example of the resolution. The negative should be restricted to offering \"topical\" counterplans that provide greater benefits than the plan. This theory rejects traditional formulations of \"competition\" and argues that the affirmative should be prepared to attack the counterplan alone in comparison to the plan because it falls within the accepted and predictable wording of the resolution. While this view has some aggressive adherents, it has not been exceptionally popular in most circles.\n\nA counterplan must 'compete' with the affirmative plan in order to be considered a reason to reject the affirmative. Although competition is a difficult and controversial theoretical concept, it is most often defined as the following: The counterplan must be superior (and not equal) to both the plan and any possible combination of the plan and counterplan. A plan and counterplan that are labelled mutually exclusive are structurally competitive in totality, meaning that the two plan actions are contradictory and could not logically coexist. Tests of competition in terms of potential combinations of plan and counterplan are called \"permutations\", or \"perm\"s in debate slang. The most common form of permutation and the immediate test of competition is the \"Do Both\" permutation, testing the total combination of the plan and counterplan in comparison to the counterplan alone.\n\nThere are two types of permutation that are especially controversial:\n\nHowever, there are two different theories to evaluate what constitutes severance and intrinsicness—textual competition and functional competition, also sometimes called mechanical competition. Textual competition theory states that the counterplan may not textually be plan plus; put another way: a legitimate permutation may combine the texts of the plan and the counterplan. For example if the plan text was \"\"Pass the farm bill\" and the counterplan text was \"Don't pass the farm bill\"\" the affirmative would be permitted to say: \"permutation: do the counterplan\" on the grounds that it was textually plan plus. The fact that \"ban the plan\" is not on face competitive is one of the main arguments against textual competition, although its proponents claim that such counterplans could be rephrased to be textually competitive.\n\nFunctional competition evaluates the \"function\" of the plan and counterplan rather than their \"text\". For example, perming the \"ban the plan\" counterplan would constitute functional severance even though it does not constitute textual severance.\n\nFunctional and textual competition govern how severance and intrinsicness are determined. For example, a logical permutation is \"textually but not functionally intrinsic\" because it includes something which is logically but not textually included in the counterplan. Additionally, there are also permutations which are \"functionally but not textually intrinsic\". For example, textually permutating an agent counterplan may functionally include an element of cooperation functionally in neither the plan nor the counterplan without being textually intrinsic.\n\nLikewise, permuting the \"ban the plan\" counterplan is \"functionally but not textually severance\" because the plan does not happen in the world of the permutation even though the permutation includes both the plan and the counterplan text. Permutations which are \"textually but not functionally\" severance are rare, but possible. For example, one type of counterplan is 'The' Word PIC, which advocates doing the affirmative plan without the word 'the' before the phrase 'United States Federal Government.' Such a plan is textually but not functionally competitive; if the Affirmative team wins that counterplans must be both textually and functionally competitive, then they can permute this counterplan. Such a permutation would be textual but not functional severance.\n\nAs the negative gains a substantial power by having the ability to run counterplans, the affirmative naturally insists on some limitations to their use. Should the negative be able to run multiple counterplans that they can jettison at any time? Should there be any limitations on the ability of the negative to shift from advocating a counter-plan back to the \"status-quo\" or to another counter-plan or advocacy stance such as a kritik? The counter-plan \"status\" is a set of conditions, albeit often vaguely defined in practice, that the negative grants will define its ability to advocate one or more counterplans. The affirmative will usually inquire about the counter-plan during the Cross-Examination after the 1NC or after whatever speech the counter-plan was run.\n\nA conditional counterplan status means that negative accepts little or no limitation on its ability to advocate counterplans. Although this usually does \"not\" mean that the negative can change the text of a counterplan, it does mean that the negative believes it has the theoretical justification to abandon the advocacy of a counterplan at any point during the debate round. Many debates are won and lost on \"theory\" arguments, about the legitimacy of conditional counterplans or kritiks. Conditionality is now commonly accepted as legitimate in the policy debate community, but in the 1970s it was not.\n\nConditionality bad is always argued by the affirmative team. If the affirmative wins conditionality is illegitimate it will usually win the entire debate round. Common arguments include claim that being able to choose which arguments to ignore and which to continue wastes their time and creates a \"moving target\". Simply put, the affirmative cannot know what the negative will choose to argue at the end of the round, and therefore some of the arguments they answer probably will not continue to the end of the round. These argument falls under a \"fairness\" claim. Most arguments will actually be under \"education\" claims. Affirmatives will claim conditionality is noneducational because it allows negative teams to make bad or inconsistent arguments and then ignore them later. More importantly, it can put the affirmative in a position where certain arguments they make can be turned against them. For instance if the negative runs an economy disadvantage and a kritik of capitalism. The affirmative cannot say they actually help the economy because this would link them to the kritik of capitalism. They also cannot say they decrease capitalism because they would then link to the economy disadvantage.\n\nConditionality good is always argued by the negative team. If the negative wins conditionality is legitimate it usually means that they are allowed to advocate their conditional counterplans and/or kritiks. Common arguments will say that the affirmative has an infinite amount of time to prepare for the debate round, while the negative does not know what affirmative will be defended until the round. Negatives also make the claim that fairness arguments cannot be evaluated because there will always be some amount of unfairness in debate. To answer education arguments, negative teams will claim that conditionality is real world, because policy makers often decide between more than two options. They may also argue that all the negative has to do is prove the affirmative's plan is a bad idea, and it does not matter how they do this. Finally, negative will often argue that even if the affirmative is correct about conditionality being bad, it is not a reason for them to lose the entire round, it is only a reason that their conditional arguments should not be voted for.\n\nAn unconditional counterplan status represents a commitment by the negative to advocate the counterplan at the end of the round. Negatives often run unconditional counterplans when they want to emphasize their confidence in their arguments or want to avoid debating theory arguments (especially on otherwise particularly abusive counterplans). There is some dispute about whether the negative can ultimately advocate the alternative vision of a kritik if it has already run an unconditional counterplan. Also if negative chooses to argue that the affirmative is not topical in the final speech, it is rarely considered a violation of its commitment to defend the counterplan.\n\nOriginally offered as a milder form of conditionality that ruled out multiple counterplans and locked the affirmative and negative into two policy options each: the counterplan and/or the status quo for the negative; the plan and/or the permutation for the affirmative. This formulation has the benefit of avoiding the irrational decisionmaker problem of \"unconditionality\", which would require the judge to vote for a plan that is a bad idea to avoid a counterplan that is a worse idea.\n\nMore recently, \"dispositionality\" has become an umbrella term for an express contract between the teams, generally clarified in 1NC cross-examination. The agreement usually entails a negative commitment to the counterplan provided that the affirmative is willing to compare it to the affirmative without making any conditional statements. The negative can be conditional if the affirmative begins it (i.e. making a permutation, thus making it conditional in that the affirmative can defend either the plan or permutation). A new form of dispositionality has also been that the negative can kick the counterplan if the affirmative straight turns the counterplan.\n\nIn practice, there is a great deal of vagueness about dispositionality (for example, what exactly constitutes a permutation?), and therefore it is important for the affirmative to clarify this as best they can. If the negative refuses to clarify, the affirmative can simply use this to indict the negative claim that it has run the counterplan fairly, perhaps on some other theory argument in the debate or on the counterplan.\n\nPlan inclusive counterplans (PICs) enact some or all parts of the Affirmative plan. Counterplans that are 100% plan-inclusive have only shaky competition claims, usually resting on dense theory.\n\nA delay counterplan passes the plan on a specified future date or contingent on a specified future event, claiming net benefits from short-term disadvantages (typically politics, and especially the Elections variant).\n\nA consult counterplan has another entity (other governments, NGOs, etc.) overview, and possibly make revisions to the Affirmative plan. If the entity approves the plan, it is passed by the original actor. If it is rejected, the actor does not pass the plan. Consult counterplans generally have a net benefit of improved relations with the consulted actor or body. An example would be for the European Union to review the plan, make revisions, and have the actor follow the EU's suggestions.\n\nAn exclusionary counterplan only enacts certain parts of the Affirmative plan. The Net Benefits are based on the parts excluded. There is some dispute as to the legitimacy of Exclusion PICs - supporters say the affirmative should be prepared to defend their advocacy, while opponents say negative teams can find \"something\" wrong with any plan and that exclusion PICs are abusive.\n\nAn agent counterplan has the affirmative plan be enacted by a different actor (other governments, NGOs, the fifty states, etc.), or through cooperation with other actors (such as the European Union, or India). Net benefits are usually solvency boosts, which can include better execution, increased effectiveness, shorter timeframe, less corruption, and in the case of cooperation counterplans, increased relations with participating actors. An example would be for the fifty states to enact the plan, with the benefit being a rebalancing of federalism. Some (beginning with the 1975 Lichtman and Rohrer \"A general theory of the counterplan\" through Michael Korcok and Paul Strait with Brett Wallance most recently) have argued the kind of fiat involved with these counterplans is inconsistent with the logic of decision making.\n\nA plan exclusive counterplan (PEC) does not use the affirmative plan, but still is competitive to the plan. If the affirmative plan uses the United States as an actor, an example of a PEC would be to disband the U.S. Government. This type of counterplan provides very clear competition with the affirmative plan simply because the two are mutually exclusive. The judge must choose either plan or counterplan. This kind of counterplan is favored by debaters who combine counterplans with kritiks such that the alternative of the criticism is a counterplan (e.g., countering an affirmative that increases the number of members of the United States Armed Forces with a kritik of militarism and a counterplan to disband the United States Armed Forces).\n\nAn advantage counterplan is a counterplan that only solves for one of the affirmative's advantages. The negative either has to then turn the other advantage's solvency or impact or run a disadvantage or kritik that doesn't link to the counterplan, which is the net benefit to the counterplan.\n\n"}
{"id": "9020225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9020225", "title": "Cultural policy", "text": "Cultural policy\n\nCultural policy is the government actions, laws and programs that regulate, protect, encourage and financially (or otherwise) support activities related to the arts and creative sectors, such as painting, sculpture, music, dance, literature, and filmmaking, among others and culture, which may involve activities related to language, heritage and diversity. The idea of cultural policy was developed at UNESCO in the 1960s. Generally, this involves governments setting in place processes, legal classifications, regulations, legislation and institutions (e.g., galleries, museums, libraries, opera houses, etc.) which promote and facilitate cultural diversity and creative expressions in a range of art forms and creative activities. Cultural policies vary from one country to another, but generally they aim to improve the accessibility of arts and creative activities to citizens and promote the artistic, musical, ethnic, sociolinguistic, literary and other expressions of all people in a country. In some countries, especially since the 1970s, there is an emphasis on supporting the culture of Indigenous peoples and marginalized communities and ensuring that cultural industries (e.g., filmmaking or TV production) are representative of a country's diverse cultural heritage and ethnic and linguistic demographics. \n\nCultural policy can be done at a nation-state level, at a sub-national level (e.g., U.S. states or Canadian provinces), at a regional level or at a municipal level (e.g., a city government creating a museum or arts centre). Examples of cultural policy-making at the nation-state level could include anything from funding music education or theatre programs at little to no cost, to hosting corporate-sponsored art exhibitions in a government museum, to establishing legal codes (such as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service’s 501(c)(3) tax designation for not-for-profit enterprises) and creating political institutions (such as the various ministries of culture and departments of culture and the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Endowment for the Arts in the United States), arts granting councils, and cultural institutions such as galleries and museums. Similar significant organisations in the United Kingdom include the Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS), and Arts Council England.\n\nThroughout much of the twentieth century, many of the activities that compose cultural policy in the 2010s were governed under the title of \"arts policy\". Arts policy includes direct funding to artists, creators and art institutions and indirect funding to artists and arts institutions through the tax system (e.g., by making donations to arts charities tax deductible). However, as Kevin Mulcahy has observed, \"cultural policy encompasses a much broader array of activities than were addressed under arts policy. Whereas arts policy was effectively limited to addressing aesthetic concerns (e.g., funding art galleries and opera houses), the significance of the transformation to cultural policy can be observed in its demonstrable emphases on cultural identity, valorization of indigineity [Indigenous people's culture] and analyses of historical dynamics (such as hegemony and colonialism).\" A general trend in Western industrialized nations is a shift, since the 1970s and 1980s, away from solely supporting a small number of relatively elite, professionalized art forms and institutions (e.g., Classical music, painting, sculpture, art galleries) to also supporting amateur and community cultural and creative activities (e.g., community theatre) and cultural forms which were not considered part of the Western canon by previous generations (e.g., traditional music such as blues, World music, and so on).\n\nPrior to the twentieth century, the arts were typically supported by the patronage of the church, aristocrats such as kings and queens, and wealthy merchants. During the nineteenth century, artists increased their use of the private marketplace to earn revenue. For example, the composer Beethoven put on public concerts for which admission was charged. During the twentieth century, governments began to take over some of the arts patronage roles. Governments' first efforts to support culture were typically the establishment of archives, museums and libraries. Over the twentieth century, governments established a range of other institutions, such as arts councils and departments of culture. The first departments of culture typically supported the major arts that are part of the Western canon, such as painting and sculpture, and the major performing arts (Classical music and theatre).\n\nIn the twentieth century, Western governments in the U.K., Canada, Australia, New Zealand and many European nations developed arts policy measures to promote, support and protect the arts, artists and arts institutions. These governments' arts policy initiatives generally had two aims: supporting excellence in the arts and broadening access to the arts by citizens. An example of an arts policy initiative that supports excellence would be a government grant program which provides funding to the highest-achieving artists in the country. A concrete example would be a literary prize of $100,000 for the best fiction authors from the country, as selected by a panel of top experts. An example of an arts policy initiative that aims at increasing access to the arts would be a music in the schools program funded by the government. A concrete example would be a program which funded an orchestra or jazz quartet and paid them to play free concerts in elementary schools. This would enable children from lower- and middle-income families to hear live music. \n\nThe two goals, supporting excellence and broadening access, are often trade-offs, as any increase in emphasis on one policy objective typically has an adverse effect on the other goal. To give an example, if a hypothetical country has a $12 million per year grant program for orchestras in the country, if the government focuses on the goal of supporting musical excellence, it may decide to provide $4 million per year to the three top orchestras in the country, as determined by a panel of independent professional music critics, conductors and music professors. This decision would strongly support the goal of enhancing excellence, as funding would only go to the top musical groups. However, this approach would only enable citizens in three cities to have access to professional orchestras.\n\nOn the other hand, if the government was focusing on broadening access to symphony concerts, it might direct the independent panel to pick 12 orchestras in the country, with the stipulation that only one orchestra per city be selected. By proving $1 million per year to 12 orchestras in 12 cities, this would enable citizens from 12 cities in the country to see live orchestra shows. However, by funding 12 orchestras, this would mean that funding would go to ensembles that do not meet the highest standards of excellence. Thus, excellence and broadening access are often trade-offs.\n\nCultural policy, while a small part of the budgets of even the most generous of governments, governs a sector of immense complexity. It entails “a large, heterogeneous set of individuals and organizations engaged in the creation, production, presentation, distribution, and preservation of and education about aesthetic heritage, and entertainment activities, products and artifacts”. A cultural policy necessarily encompasses a broad array of activities and typically involves public support for:\n\nSome governments may place policy areas from this list in other ministries or departments. For example, national parks may be assigned to an environment department, or public humanities may be delegated to an education department. \n\nSince culture is a public good (i.e., contributes a public value to society for which it is hard to exclude non-payers, as all of society benefits from arts and culture) and something that is generally viewed as a merit good, governments have pursued programs to promote greater accessibility. In this way of thinking, significant aesthetic works such as paintings and sculptures should be made broadly available to the public. In other words, “high culture” should not be the exclusive preserve of a particular social class or of a metropolitan location. Rather, the benefits of the highest reaches of cultural excellence should be made in an egalitarian manner; national cultural treasures should be accessible without regard to the impediments of class circumstances, educational attainment or place of habitation. A democratic state cannot be seen as simply indulging the aesthetic preferences of a few, however enlightened, or of overtly infusing art with political values. Consequently, a democratic cultural policy must articulate its purposes in ways that demonstrate how the public interest is being served. These purposes have often been expressed as involving either the creation of cultural democracy or the democratization of culture.\n\nThe objective of cultural democratization is the aesthetic enlightenment, enhanced dignity, and educational development of the general citizenry. “Dissemination was the key concept with the aim of establishing equal opportunity for all citizens to participate in publicly organized and financed cultural activities”. To further this goal, performances and exhibitions are low cost; public art education promotes equality of aesthetic opportunity; national institutions tour and perform in work places, retirement homes and housing complexes.\n\nAs indicated earlier, the “democratization of culture” is a top-down approach that promulgates certain forms of cultural programming that are deemed to be a public good. Clearly, such an objective is open to criticism for what is termed cultural elitism; that is, the assumption that some aesthetic expressions are inherently superior - at least as determined by a cognoscenti concerned with the acquisition of cultural capital. “The problem with this policy [is] that, fundamentally, it intend[s] to create larger audiences for performances whose content [is] based on the experience of society’s privileged groups. In sum, it has… taken for granted that the cultural needs of all society’s members [are] alike”. The objective of cultural democracy, on the other hand, is to provide for a more participatory (or populist) approach in the definition and provision of cultural opportunities.\n\nThe coupling of the concept of democratization of culture to cultural democracy has a pragmatic as well as a philosophical component. Cultural patronage in democratic governments is markedly different from patronage by wealthy individuals or corporations. Private or politically paramount patrons are responsible only to themselves and are free to indulge in their tastes and preferences. Democratic governments, on the other hand, are responsible to the electorate and are held accountable for their policy decisions.\n\nThe two objectives just discussed - dissemination of high culture and participation in a broader range of cultural activities - evoke a related debate about the content of public culture: “elitist” or “populist.” \nProponents of the elitist position argue that cultural policy should emphasize aesthetic quality as the determining criterion for public subvention. This view is typically supported by the major cultural organizations, creative artists in the traditionally defined field of the fine arts, cultural critics, and the well-educated, well-to-do audiences for these art forms. Ronald Dworkin terms this the “lofty approach,” which “insists that art and culture must reach a certain degree of sophistication, richness, and excellence in order for human nature to flourish, and that the state must provide this excellence if the people will not or cannot provide it for themselves”. Advocates of the elitist position generally focus on supporting the creation, preservation and performance of works of the Western canon, a group of artworks that are viewed as the best artistic and cultural products of Western society.\n\nBy contrast, the populist position advocates defining culture broadly and inclusively and making this culture broadly available. The populist approach emphasizes a less traditional and more pluralist notion of artistic merit and consciously seeks to create a policy of cultural diversity. With a focus on personal enhancement, the populist’s position posits very limited boundaries between amateur and professional arts activities. Indeed, the goal is to provide opportunities for those outside the professional mainstream. To give an example, whereas an elite approach advocates support for professional musicians, particularly those from Classical music, a populist approach would advocate support for amateur, community singers and musicians.\n\n“Proponents of populism are frequently advocates of minority arts, folk arts, ethnic arts, or counter-cultural activities” as Kevin V. Mulcahy said. Cultural “elitists,” on the other hand, argue in support of excellence over amateurism and favor an emphasis on aesthetic discipline over “culture as everything.” There are “two key tensions for national cultural policy between the goals of excellence versus access, and between government roles as facilitator versus architect”.\nKevin V. Mulcahy argued that in effect, elitism is cultural democracy as populism is to the democratization of culture. Unfortunately, there has been a tendency to see these positions as mutually exclusive, rather than complementary. “Elitists” are denounced as “high brow snobs” advocating an esoteric culture which focuses on art music and the types of art seen in museums and galleries; populists are dismissed as “pandering philistines” promoting a trivialized and commercialized culture, as they endorse the value of popular music and folk art. However, these mutual stereotypes belie complementariness between two bookends of an artistically autonomous and politically accountable cultural policy. There is a synthesis that can be termed a “latitudinarian approach” to public culture; that is, one that is aesthetically inclusive and broadly accessible.\n\nSuch a public-cultural policy would remain faithful to the highest standards of excellence from a broad range of aesthetic expressions while providing the widest possible access to people from different geographic locales, socio-economic strata, and educational background, as Dr. Mulcahy said. In conceiving of public policy as an opportunity to provide alternatives not readily available in the marketplace, public cultural agencies would be better positioned to complement the efforts of the private sector rather than duplicate their activities. Similarly, cultural agencies can promote community development by supporting artistic heritages that are at a competitive disadvantage in a cultural world that is increasingly profit-driven. In sum, excellence should be viewed as the achievements of greatness from a horizontal, rather than a vertical, perspective and a cultural policy as supporting the totality of these varieties of excellence.\n\nThese attitudes about a public cultural responsibility stand in marked contrast to much of the rest of the world, where culture is a question of historic patrimony, or the national identities of peoples, whether in independent states or regions within more powerful states. Inevitably, sensitive issues are involved in any discussion of culture as a public policy. However, given the demands in a democratic system that public policies show a return to the taxpayer, cultural policy has frequently argued for support on the basis of utility. It can be argued that there is a parity between the state’s responsibility for its citi’ social-economic-physical needs and their access to culture and opportunities for artistic self-expression. However, the aesthetic dimension of public policy has never been widely perceived as intuitively obvious or politically imperative. Accordingly, the cultural sector has often argued its case from the secondary, ancillary benefits that result from public support for programs that are seemingly only aesthetic in nature. Cultural policy is not typically justified solely on the grounds that it is a good-in-itself, but rather that it yields other good results.\n\nThe future of cultural policy would seem to predict an increasingly inexorable demand that the arts “carry their own weight” rather than rely on a public subsidy to pursue “art for art’s sake”. Kevin V. Mulcahy dubbed this “cultural Darwinism” is most pronounced in the United States where public subsidy is limited and publicly supported aesthetic activities are expected to demonstrate a direct public benefit. Non-American cultural institutions are less constrained by the need to maintain diversified revenue streams that demand high levels of earned income and individual and corporate donations to compensate for limited government appropriations.\n\nOn the other hand, cultural institutions everywhere are increasingly market-driven in their need for supplementary funds and as a justification for continued public support. The American model of an essentially privatized culture is increasingly attractive to governments seeking to curtail their cultural subsidies. In a system of mixed funding, public culture can nurture the arts groups and cultural activities that contribute to individual self-worth and community definition even if counting for less in the economic bottom-line. At root, a cultural policy is about creating public spheres that are not dependent upon profit motives nor validated by commercial values. As political democracy is dependent upon the existence of civil society and socio-economic pluralism, cultural policy stands as an essential public commitment in realizing these fundamental preconditions.\n\nOne of the available and yet underappreciated tools in cultural policy at the national level is the reduction of VAT rates for cultural goods and services. Economic theory can be used to explain how reduced fiscal rates are expected to decrease prices and increase quantities of consumed cultural goods and services. Fiscal policy can be an important part of cultural policy, in particular the VAT rate discounts on cultural consumption, yet it receives less attention than deserved.\n\nAt the international level UNESCO is in charge of cultural policy. Contact information for ministries of culture and national arts councils in 160 countries is available from the website of the International Federation of Arts Councils and Culture Agencies (IFACCA). On a local scale, subnational (e.g., state or provincial governments), city and local governments offer citizens and local authorities the opportunity to develop arts and culture with the Agenda 21 for Culture.\n\nCultural policy research is a field of academic inquiry that grew out of cultural studies in the 1990s. It grew out of the idea that cultural studies should not only be critical, but also try to be useful. In the 2010s, there are many departments of Cultural Policy Studies around the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "210522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210522", "title": "Economic policy", "text": "Economic policy\n\nThe economic policy of governments covers the systems for setting levels of taxation, government budgets, the money supply and interest rates as well as the labour market, national ownership, and many other areas of government interventions into the economy.\n\nMost factors of economic policy can be divided into either fiscal policy, which deals with government actions regarding taxation and spending, or monetary policy, which deals with central banking actions regarding the money supply and interest rates.\n\nSuch policies are often influenced by international institutions like the International Monetary Fund or World Bank as well as political beliefs and the consequent policies of parties.\n\nAlmost every aspect of government has an important economic component. A few examples of the kinds of economic policies that exist include:\n\nStabilization policy attempts to stimulate an economy out of recession or constrain the money supply to prevent excessive inflation.\n\nPolicy is generally directed to achieve particular objectives, like targets for inflation, unemployment, or economic growth. Sometimes other objectives, like military spending or nationalization are important.\n\nThese are referred to as the policy goals: the outcomes which the economic policy aims to achieve.\n\nTo achieve these goals, governments use policy tools which are under the control of the government. These generally include the interest rate and money supply, tax and government spending, tariffs, exchange rates, labor market regulations, and many other aspects of government.\n\nGovernment and central banks are limited in the number of goals they can achieve in the short term. For instance, there may be pressure on the government to reduce inflation, reduce unemployment, and reduce interest rates while maintaining currency stability. If all of these are selected as goals for the short term, then policy is likely to be incoherent, because a normal consequence of reducing inflation and maintaining currency stability is increasing unemployment and increasing interest rates.\n\nThis dilemma can in part be resolved by using microeconomic supply-side policy to help adjust markets. For instance, unemployment could potentially be reduced by altering laws relating to trade unions or unemployment insurance, as well as by macroeconomic (demand-side) factors like interest rates.\n\nFor much of the 20th century, governments adopted discretionary policies like demand management designed to correct the business cycle. These typically used fiscal and monetary policy to adjust inflation, output and unemployment.\n\nHowever, following the stagflation of the 1970s, policymakers began to be attracted to policy rules. \n\nA discretionary policy is supported because it allows policymakers to respond quickly to events. However, discretionary policy can be subject to dynamic inconsistency: a government may say it intends to raise interest rates indefinitely to bring inflation under control, but then relax its stance later. This makes policy non-credible and ultimately ineffective.\n\nA rule-based policy can be more credible, because it is more transparent and easier to anticipate. Examples of rule-based policies are fixed exchange rates, interest rate rules, the stability and growth pact and the Golden Rule. Some policy rules can be imposed by external bodies, for instance the Exchange Rate Mechanism for currency. \n\nA compromise between strict discretionary and strict rule-based policy is to grant discretionary power to an independent body. For instance, the Federal Reserve Bank, European Central Bank, Bank of England and Reserve Bank of Australia all set interest rates without government interference, but do not adopt rules.\n\nAnother type of non-discretionary policy is a set of policies which are imposed by an international body. This can occur (for example) as a result of intervention by the International Monetary Fund.\n\nThe first economic problem was how to gain the resources it needed to be able to perform the functions of an early government: the military, roads and other projects like building the Pyramids.\n\nEarly governments generally relied on tax in kind and forced labor for their economic resources. However, with the development of money came the first policy choice. A government could raise money through taxing its citizens. However, it could now also debase the coinage and so increase the money supply. \n\nEarly civilizations also made decisions about whether to permit and how to tax trade. Some early civilizations, such as Ptolemaic Egypt adopted a closed currency policy whereby foreign merchants had to exchange their coin for local money. This effectively levied a very high tariff on foreign trade.\n\nBy the early modern age, more policy choices had been developed. There was considerable debate about mercantilism and other restrictive trade practices like the Navigation Acts, as trade policy became associated with both national wealth and with foreign and colonial policy.\n\nThroughout the 19th Century, monetary standards became an important issue. Gold and silver were in supply in different proportions. Which metal was adopted influenced the wealth of different groups in society.\n\nWith the accumulation of private capital in the Renaissance, states developed methods of financing deficits without debasing their coin. The development of capital markets meant that a government could borrow money to finance war or expansion while causing less economic hardship. \n\nThis was the beginning of modern fiscal policy.\n\nThe same markets made it easy for private entities to raise bonds or sell stock to fund private initiatives.\n\nThe business cycle became a predominant issue in the 19th century, as it became clear that industrial output, employment, and profit behaved in a cyclical manner. One of the first proposed policy solutions to the problem came with the work of Keynes, who proposed that fiscal policy could be used actively to ward off depressions, recessions and slumps. The Austrian School of economics argues that central banks create the business cycle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19506230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19506230", "title": "Elite pact", "text": "Elite pact\n\nAn elite pact, settlement or political settlement is an agreement or understanding between political elites which moderates the violence and winner takes all nature of unrestrained conflict. Such settlements are often understood to transform government from an autocratic mode into more pluralistic, democratic form. However, others view the political settlement as normatively neutral.\n\nThis concept in political theory is part of elite theory and state-building. Joel Migdal has suggested that the concept of political settlements has a pedigree going back to the work of Barrington Moore. Political settlements are the frameworks for governing a state established by elites, either through formal processes or informally over time. There are numerous definitions of political settlements and elite pacts, often including an emphasis on understandings between elites that bring about the conditions to end conflict, or maintain peace. In 2011 the World Bank's World Development Report suggested a new terminology for political settlements with the concept of `good enough coalitions.'\n\nElite pacts can be explicitly articulated (enshrined in an evolving\ndocument – such as a peace agreement or a constitution).\n\nVerena Fritz and Alina Rocha Menocal published a paper in 2007 arguing that political settlements are a `domain' at the heart of all state processe. They relate the concept to broader state theory (including the issues of elections and legitimacy). They stress that political settlements are not one-off events but evolve over time.\n\nImportant contributions on the establishing of political settlements in modern (particularly newly democratic) states have also been made by Thomas Carothers and Marina Ottaway of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Also of note is JC Scott's work `Seeing Like a State' which explores the routes through which political settlements in medieval Europe began to consolidate formal state structures.\n\nMore recently Christine Bell of the Political Settlements Research Programme has argued that political settlements analysis is centrally concerned with how to understand and support elite pacts while enabling transformation to other forms of broader inclusion.\n\nIn political science the concept of `political settlements' is distinct from short-term processes aimed at elite agreements, such as a `peace process' or `peace agreement.' Peace negotiations and agreements may be part of the process of achieving a political settlement, but the settlement itself is the period of time for which an elite agreement holds, which could last for days or centuries.\n\nControversially the political scientist Patrick Chabal has suggested that the concept of political settlements is often less useful than that of `political sedimentation,' the residue of elite accommodation that is left after a period of contestation or explicit conflict, (quoted from Whaites above) see also.\n\nThe term political settlement is now use by key development agencies, despite confusion over what exactly the term means, and doubts over how the concept assists development actors intervene more effectively to support stable, open and inclusive political settlement.\n\n"}
{"id": "577704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=577704", "title": "Estado Novo (Portugal)", "text": "Estado Novo (Portugal)\n\nThe Estado Novo (, \"New State\"), or the Second Republic, was the corporatist authoritarian regime installed in Portugal in 1933, which was considered fascist. It evolved from the \"Ditadura Nacional\" (\"National Dictatorship\") formed after the \"coup d'état\" of 28 May 1926 against the democratic but unstable First Republic. Together, the \"Ditadura Nacional\" and \"Estado Novo\" are recognised as the Second Portuguese Republic. The \"Estado Novo\", greatly inspired by conservative and authoritarian ideologies, was developed by António de Oliveira Salazar, President of the Council of Ministers of Portugal from 1932 to 1968, when he fell ill and was replaced by Marcelo Caetano.\n\nOpposed to communism, socialism, anarchism, liberalism, national socialism and anti-colonialism, the regime was corporatist, conservative, and nationalist in nature, defending Portugal as Catholic. Its policy envisaged the perpetuation of Portugal as a pluricontinental nation under the doctrine of lusotropicalism, with Angola, Mozambique, and other Portuguese territories as extensions of Portugal itself, and it being a supposed source of civilization and stability to the overseas societies in the African and Asian possessions. Under \"Estado Novo\", Portugal tried to perpetuate a vast, centuries-old empire with a total area of , while other former colonial powers had largely already acceded to global calls for self-determination and independence.\n\nPortugal joined the United Nations (UN) in 1955, and was a founding member of NATO (1949), OECD (1961), and EFTA (1960). In 1968 Marcello Caetano was appointed the new head of government. On 25 April 1974, the Carnation Revolution in Lisbon, a military \"coup\" organised by left-wing Portuguese military officers – the Armed Forces Movement (MFA) – overthrew the \"Estado Novo\" regime. Fiercely criticised by most of the international community after World War II and decolonisation, it was one of the longest-surviving authoritarian regimes in Europe. By the fall of the \"Estado Novo\" in 1974, Portugal had the lowest per capita income in Western Europe, as well as the highest rate of preventable deaths and infant mortality rate in Europe.\n\nKing Carlos I of Portugal confirmed colonial treaties of the 19th century that stabilized the situation in Portuguese Africa. These agreements were, however, unpopular in Portugal, where they were seen as being to the disadvantage of the country. In addition, Portugal was declared bankrupt twice—first on 14 June 1892 and again on 10 May 1902—causing industrial disturbances, socialist, and republican antagonism and press criticism of the monarchy. Carlos responded by appointing João Franco as Prime Minister and subsequently accepting Parliament's dissolution. In 1908, Carlos I was assassinated in Lisbon. The Portuguese monarchy lasted until 1910 when, through the 5 October revolution, it was overthrown and Portugal was proclaimed a republic. The overthrow of the Portuguese monarchy in 1910 led to a 16-year struggle to sustain parliamentary democracy under republicanism – the Portuguese First Republic (1910–1926).\n\nThe 28 May 1926 \"coup d'état\" or, during the period of \"Estado Novo\", the National Revolution (), was a military action that put an end to the chaotic Portuguese First Republic and initiated the \"Ditadura Nacional\" (National Dictatorship) (years later, renamed \"Estado Novo\").\n\nWith fascist organizations being popular and widely supported across many countries (like Italian Fascism and National Socialism) as an antagonist of communist ideologies, António de Oliveira Salazar developed the \"Estado Novo\" which can be described as a right leaning corporatist regime of para-fascist inspiration. The basis of his regime was a platform of stability, in direct contrast to the unstable environment of the First Republic. According to some Portuguese scholars like Jaime Nogueira Pinto and Rui Ramos, his early reforms and policies changed the whole nation since they allowed political and financial stability and therefore social order and economic growth, after the politically unstable and financially chaotic years of the Portuguese First Republic (1910–1926). After the First Republic, when not even public order was achieved, this looked like an impressive breakthrough to most of the population; Salazar achieved his height in popularity at this point. This transfiguration of Portugal was then known as \"A Lição de Salazar\" – \"Salazar's Lesson\". Salazar's program was opposed to communism, socialism, and liberalism. It was pro-Catholic, conservative, and nationalistic. Its policy envisaged the perpetuation of Portugal as a pluricontinental empire, financially autonomous and politically independent from the dominating superpowers, and a source of civilization and stability to the overseas societies in the African and Asian possessions.\n\nThe \"Estado Novo\" was an authoritarian regime with an integralist orientation, which differed greatly from other fascist and clerical fascist regimes by its lack of expansionism, lack of a fanatical leader, lack of dogmatic party structure, and more moderate use of state force. It incorporated, however, the principles for its military from Benito Mussolini's system in Italy. Salazar was a Catholic traditionalist who believed in the necessity of control over the forces of economic modernization in order to defend the religious and rural values of the country, which he perceived as being threatened. One of the pillars of the regime was the PIDE, the secret police. Many political dissidents were imprisoned at the Tarrafal prison in the African archipelago of Cape Verde, on the capital island of Santiago, or in local jails. Strict state censorship was in place.\n\nExecutive authority was nominally vested in a president, elected by popular vote for a five-year term. On paper, the president was vested with sweeping executive and legislative powers, making him a virtual dictator. In practice, however, the real power was held by the prime minister, Salazar. The legislature was a unicameral National Assembly, elected every four years. An advisory body, the Corporative Chamber, nominally represented economic, social and cultural organizations. While opposition candidates theoretically could stand for office after 1945, in practice the system was so heavily rigged in favour of the official party, the National Union, that they had no realistic chance of winning.\n\nThe \"Estado Novo\" enforced nationalist and conservative Roman Catholic values on the Portuguese population. The whole education system was focused toward the exaltation of the Portuguese nation and its five-century old overseas territories (the \"Ultramar\"). The motto of the regime was \"Deus, Pátria e Família\" (meaning \"God, Fatherland, and Family\", and obviously intended as a counterpart to the French Revolution's \"Liberté, égalité, fraternité\"). It echoed instead the motto of Vichy France \"Travail, Famille et Patrie\" (\"Work, Family and Fatherland\") . After 1945, the main \"raison d'être\" of the regime became resistance to the wave of decolonization which swept Europe after the end of World War II.\n\nThe \"Estado Novo\" accepted the idea of corporatism as an economic model. Although Salazar refused to sign the Anti-Comintern Pact in 1938, the Portuguese Communist Party was intensely persecuted. So were Anarchists, Liberals, Republicans, and anyone opposed to the regime. The National Union embraced a wide array of politics, passing through monarchism, corporatism, para-fascism and nationalism.\n\nThe \"Legião Nacional\" was a popular militia similar to the Italian Blackshirts. For young people, there was the \"Mocidade Portuguesa\", an organization similar in organization to the Hitler Youth of Nazi Germany, but not in ideology; the \"Estado Novo\" and the Nazis had little time for each other as Portugal made an effort to avoid racism and anti-Semitism. These two organizations were heavily supported by the State and imposed a martial style of life.\n\nPortugal was officially neutral in the Spanish Civil War (1936–39), but quietly furnished help to the nationalists of Francisco Franco. During the Second World War (1939-45), Portugal remained officially neutral, but the regime had more pro-Axis sympathies; Salazar even expressed support for the German invasion of the Soviet Union. This support, however, can be mainly attributed to Salazar's staunch anti-communist position rather than actual support for Hitler, or the Nazi regime. \n\nFrom 1943, Portugal favoured the Allies, leasing air bases in the Azores. Portugal reluctantly leased the Azores as a direct result of being threatened with invasion should Portugal not cater to the requests of the Allies. Portugal traded with both sides, but cut off vital shipments of tungsten and rubber to Germany in 1944, after heavy pressure from the Allies. Lisbon was the base for International Red Cross operations aiding Allied POWs, and a main air transit point between Britain and the U.S.\n\nIn 1942, Australian troops briefly occupied Portuguese Timor, but were soon overwhelmed by invading Japanese. Salazar worked to regain control of East Timor.\n\nSalazar's policy after the war was to provide a certain level of liberalization in politics, in terms of organized opposition with more freedom of the press. Opposition parties were tolerated to an extent, but they were also controlled, limited, and manipulated, with the result that they split into factions and never formed a united opposition. He permitted the formation of Movement of Democratic Unity (Movimento de Unidade Democrática) in 1945. It boycotted the election and Salazar won handily, on 18 November 1945. In 1949 Portugal became a founding member of NATO.\n\nPresident Óscar Carmona died in 1951 after 25 years in office and was succeeded by Francisco Craveiro Lopes. However, Lopes was not willing to give Salazar the free hand that Carmona had given him, and was forced to resign just before the end of his term in 1958. Naval Minister Américo Tomás, a staunch conservative, ran in the 1958 elections as the official candidate. General Humberto Delgado was the opposition candidate. Delgado was credited with only around 25% of the votes with 52.6% in favor of Tomás, despite the consensual opinion that Delgado would have won had the count been honest. Delgado had electrified the contest, previously seen by many as little better than a pantomime of democracy by declaring, when asked what he would do with Salazar, \"Obviamente, demito-o!\" (\"Obviously, I'll sack him\"). Delgado's rallies subsequently attracted vast crowds. Evidence later surfaced that the PIDE had stuffed the ballot boxes with votes for Tomás. After the elections, Delgado was expelled from the Portuguese Military, and took refuge in the Brazilian embassy before going into exile, spending much of it in Brazil and later in Algeria. To keep opposition candidates from coming to power in 1959, Salazar abolished direct election of presidents in favor of election by the National Assembly—which was firmly controlled by the regime—serving as an electoral college.\n\nOn 23 January 1961, military officer and politician Henrique Galvão led the hijacking of the Portuguese passenger ship \"Santa Maria\". The terrorist operation was successful as anti-regime propaganda but killed one man in the process. Galvão claimed that his intentions were to sail to the Overseas Province of Angola to set up in Luanda a renegade Portuguese Government in opposition to Salazar. Galvão released the passengers in negotiation with Brazilian officials in exchange for political asylum in Brazil.\n\nIn 1962, the Academic Crisis occurred. The regime, fearing the growing popularity of both purely democratic and communist ideas among the students, carried out the boycott and closure of several student associations and organizations, including the important National Secretariat of Portuguese Students. Most members of this organization were opposition militants, among them many communists. The political activists who were anti-regime used to be investigated and persecuted by PIDE-DGS, the secret police, and according to the gravity of the offence, were usually sent to jail or transferred from one university to another in order to destabilize oppositionist networks and its hierarchical organization. The students, with strong support from the clandestine Portuguese Communist Party, responded with demonstrations which culminated on 24 March with a huge student demonstration in Lisbon, that was vigorously suppressed by the riot police. Marcelo Caetano, distinguished member of the regime and the incumbent rector of the University of Lisbon, resigned.\n\nThe reluctance of many young men to embrace the hardships of the Portuguese Colonial War resulted in hundreds of thousands of Portuguese citizens each year leaving to seek economic opportunities abroad in order to escape conscription. In over 15 years, nearly one million emigrated to France, another million to the United States, many hundreds of thousands to Germany, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Venezuela, or Brazil. Political parties, such as the Socialist Party, persecuted at home, were established in exile. The only party which managed to continue (illegally) operating in Portugal during all the dictatorship was the Portuguese Communist Party.\n\nIn 1964, Delgado founded the Portuguese National Liberation Front in Rome, stating in public that the only way to end the \"Estado Novo\" would be by a military coup, while many others advocated a \"national uprising\" approach.\n\nDelgado and his Brazilian secretary, Arajaryr Moreira de Campos, were murdered on 13 February 1965 in Spain after being lured into an ambush by PIDE.\n\nAccording to some Portuguese conservative scholars like Jaime Nogueira Pinto and Rui Ramos, Salazar's early reforms and policies allowed political and financial stability and therefore social order and economic growth, after the politically unstable and financially chaotic years of the Portuguese First Republic (1910–1926). Other historians like, the also left-wing politician, Fernando Rosas, point out that Salazar's policies from the 1930s to the 1950s, led to economic and social stagnation and rampant emigration, turning Portugal into one of the poorest countries in Europe, that was also thwarted by scoring lower on literacy than its peers of the Northern Hemisphere.\n\nSalazar suffered a stroke in 1968. As it was thought that he did not have long to live, Tomás replaced him with Marcelo Caetano, a reputed scholar of the University of Lisbon Law School, statesman and a distinguished member of the regime. Salazar was never informed of this decision, and reportedly died in 1970 still believing he was prime minister. Most of the people hoped Caetano would soften the edges of Salazar's authoritarian regime and modernize the already growing economy. Caetano moved on to foster economic growth and made important social improvements, such as the awarding of a monthly pension to rural workers who had never had the chance to pay social security. Some large scale investments were made at national level, such as the building of a major oil processing centre in Sines. The economy reacted very well at first, but into the 1970s some serious problems began to show, due in part to two-digit inflation (from 1970 and on) and to the effects of the 1973 oil crisis. However, the oil crisis of 1973 had a potentially beneficial effect to Portugal because the largely unexploited oil reserves that Portugal had in its overseas territories of Angola, and São Tomé and Príncipe were being developed at a fast pace.\n\nAlthough Caetano was fundamentally an authoritarian, he did make some efforts to open up the regime. Soon after taking power, he rebranded the regime as the \"Social State\", and slightly increased freedom of speech and the press. These measures did not go nearly far enough for a significant element of the population who had no memory of the instability which preceded Salazar. The people were also disappointed that Caetano was unwilling to open up the electoral system; the 1969 and 1973 elections saw the National Union—renamed People's National Action—sweep every seat, as before. However, Caetano had to expend all of his political capital to wring even these meager reforms had out of the hardliners in the regime—most notably Tomás, who was not nearly as content to give Caetano the free rein that he gave Salazar. Caetano was thus in no position to resist when Tomás and the other hardliners forced the end of the reform experiment in 1973.\n\nDuring the 1940s and 1950s, Portugal experienced economic growth due to increased raw material exports to the war-ravaged and recovering nations of Europe. Until the 1960s, however, the country remained very poor and largely underdeveloped due to its disadvantaged starting position and lack of effective policies to counter that situation. Salazar managed to discipline the Portuguese public finances, after the chaotic First Portuguese Republic of 1910–1926, but consistent economic growth and development remained scarce until well into the 1960s, when due to the influence of a new generation of technocrats with background in economics and technical-industrial know-how, the Portuguese economy started to take off with visible accomplishments in the people's quality of life and standard of living, as well as in terms of secondary and post-secondary education attainment. During the early period of Salazar's rule, a brand new road system was built, new bridges spanned the rivers, and an educational program was able to build a primary school in each Portuguese town (an idea developed and begun during the democratic First Republic). Some liberal economic reforms advocated by elements of the ruling party, which were successfully implemented under similar circumstances in neighboring Spain, were rejected out of fear that industrialization would destabilize the regime and its ideological base and would strengthen the Communists and other left-wing movements. \nIn 1958, when the Portuguese government announced the 1959–64 Six-Year Plan for National Development, a decision had been reached to accelerate the country's rate of economic growth, a decision whose urgency grew with the outbreak of guerrilla warfare in Angola in 1961 and in Portugal's other African territories thereafter. Salazar and his policy advisers recognized that additional military expenditure needs, as well as increased transfers of official investment to the \"overseas provinces\", could only be met by a sharp rise in the country's productive capacity. Salazar's commitment to preserving Portugal's \"multiracial, pluricontinental\" state led him reluctantly to seek external credits beginning in 1962, an action from which the Portuguese treasury had abstained for several decades.\n\nBeyond military measures, the official Portuguese response to the \"winds of change\" in the African colonies was to integrate them administratively and economically more closely with the mainland. This was accomplished through population and capital transfers, trade liberalization, and the creation of a common currency, the so-called Escudo Area. The integration program established in 1961 provided for the removal of Portugal's duties on imports from its overseas territories by January 1964. The latter, on the other hand, were permitted to continue to levy duties on goods imported from Portugal but at a preferential rate, in most cases 50 percent of the normal duties levied by the territories on goods originating outside the Escudo Area. The effect of this two-tier tariff system was to give Portugal's exports preferential access to its colonial markets. The economies of the overseas provinces, especially those of both the Overseas Province of Angola and Mozambique, boomed.\n\nThe liberalization of the Portuguese economy gained a new impetus under Salazar's successor, Prime Minister Marcello José das Neves Caetano (1968–1974), whose administration abolished industrial licensing requirements for firms in most sectors and in 1972 signed a free trade agreement with the newly enlarged European Community. Under the agreement, which took effect at the beginning of 1973, Portugal was given until 1980 to abolish its restrictions on most community goods and until 1985 on certain sensitive products amounting to some 10 percent of the EC's total exports to Portugal. Starting in 1960, EFTA membership and a growing foreign investor presence contributed to Portugal's industrial modernization and export diversification between 1960 and 1973. Caetano moved on to foster economic growth and some social improvements, such as the awarding of a monthly pension to rural workers who had never had the chance to pay social security. Some large scale investments were made at national level, such as the building of a major oil processing center in Sines. Notwithstanding the concentration of the means of production in the hands of a small number of family-based financial-industrial groups, Portuguese business culture permitted a surprising upward mobility of university-educated individuals with middle-class backgrounds into professional management careers. Before the 1974 Carnation Revolution, the largest, most technologically advanced (and most recently organized) firms offered the greatest opportunity for management careers based on merit rather than by accident of birth. In 1960, at the initiation of Salazar's more outward-looking economic policy, Portugal's per capita GDP was only 38 percent of the European Community (EC-12) average; by the end of the Salazar period, in 1968, it had risen to 48 percent; and in 1973, under the leadership of Marcelo Caetano, Portugal's per capita GDP had reached 56.4 percent of the EC-12 average. On a long term analysis, after a long period of economic divergence before 1914, and a period of chaos during the First Republic, the Portuguese economy recovered slightly until 1950, entering thereafter on a path of strong economic convergence with the wealthiest economies of Western Europe, until the Carnation Revolution in April 1974. Portuguese economic growth in the period 1960 to 1973 under the \"Estado Novo\" regime (and even with the effects of an expensive war effort in African territories against independence guerrilla groups), created an opportunity for real integration with the developed economies of Western Europe. Through emigration, trade, tourism and foreign investment, individuals and firms changed their patterns of production and consumption, bringing about a structural transformation. Simultaneously, the increasing complexity of a growing economy raised new technical and organizational challenges, stimulating the formation of modern professional and management teams.\n\nBy the early 1970s Portugal's fast economic growth with increasing consumption and purchase of new automobiles set the priority for improvements in transportation. Brisa – Autoestradas de Portugal was founded in 1972 and the State granted the company a 30-year concession to design, build, manage, and maintain a modern network of express motorways.\n\nThe economy of Portugal and its overseas territories on the eve of the Carnation Revolution (a military coup on 25 April 1974) was growing well above the European average. Average family purchasing power was rising together with new consumption patterns and trends and this was promoting both investment in new capital equipment and consumption expenditure for durable and nondurable consumer goods.\n\nThe Estado Novo regime economic policy encouraged and created conditions for the formation of large and successful business conglomerates. Economically, the Estado Novo regime maintained a policy of corporatism that resulted in the placement of a big part of the Portuguese economy in the hands of a number of strong conglomerates, including those founded by the families of António Champalimaud (Banco Pinto & Sotto Mayor, Cimpor), José Manuel de Mello (CUF – Companhia União Fabril, Banco Totta & Açores), Américo Amorim (Corticeira Amorim) and the dos Santos family (Jerónimo Martins). Those Portuguese conglomerates had a business model with similarities to Japanese keiretsus and zaibatsus. The Companhia União Fabril (CUF) was one of the largest and most diversified Portuguese conglomerates with its core businesses (cement, chemicals, petrochemicals, agrochemicals, textiles, beer, beverages, metallurgy, naval engineering, electrical engineering, insurance, banking, paper, tourism, mining, etc.) and corporate headquarters located in mainland Portugal, but also with branches, plants and several developing business projects all around the Portuguese Empire, especially in the Portuguese territories of Angola and Mozambique. Other medium-sized family companies specialized in textiles (for instance those located in the city of Covilhã and the northwest), ceramics, porcelain, glass and crystal (like those of Alcobaça, Caldas da Rainha and Marinha Grande), engineered wood (like SONAE near Porto), canned fish (like those of Algarve and the northwest), fishing, food and beverages (alcoholic beverages, from liqueurs like Licor Beirão and Ginjinha, to beer like Sagres, were produced across the entire country, but Port Wine was one of its most reputed and exported alcoholic beverages), tourism (well established in Estoril/Cascais/Sintra and growing as an international attraction in the Algarve since the 1960s) and in agriculture (like the ones scattered around the Alentejo – known as the breadbasket of Portugal) completed the panorama of the national economy by the early 1970s. In addition, the rural population was committed to agrarianism—greatly important for a majority of the total population, with many families living exclusively from agriculture or complementing their salaries with farming, husbandry and forestry yields.\n\nBesides that, the overseas territories were also displaying impressive economic growth and development rates from the 1920s onwards. Even during the Portuguese Colonial War (1961–1974), a counterinsurgency war against independentist guerrilla and terrorism, the overseas territories of Angola and Mozambique (Portuguese Overseas Provinces at the time) had continuous economic growth rates and several sectors of its local economies were booming. They were internationally notable centres of production of oil, coffee, cotton, cashew, coconut, timber, minerals (like diamonds), metals (like iron and aluminium), banana, citrus, tea, sisal, beer (Cuca and Laurentina were successful beer brands produced locally), cement, fish and other sea products, beef and textiles. Tourism was also a fast developing activity in Portuguese Africa both by the growing development of and demand for beach resorts and wildlife reserves. While the counterinsurgency war was won in Angola, it was less than satisfactorily contained in Mozambique and dangerously stalemated in Portuguese Guinea from the Portuguese point of view, so the Portuguese Government decided to create sustainability policies in order to allow continuous sources of financing for the war effort in the long run. On 13 November 1972, a sovereign wealth fund (\"Fundo do Ultramar\" - The Overseas Fund) was enacted through the Decree Law \"Decreto-Lei n.º 448/ /72\" and the Ministry of Defense ordinance \"Portaria 696/72\", in order to finance the counterinsurgency effort in the Portuguese overseas territories. In addition, new Decree Laws (Decree Law: \"Decretos-Leis n.os 353, de 13 de Julho de 1973, e 409, de 20 de Agosto\") were enforced in order to cut down military expenses and increase the number of officers by incorporating irregular militia as if they were regular military academy officers.\n\nLabour unions were not allowed and a minimum wage policy was not enforced. However, in a context of an expanding economy, bringing better living conditions for the Portuguese population in the 1960s, the outbreak of the colonial wars in Africa set off significant social changes, among them the rapid incorporation of more and more women into the labour market. Marcelo Caetano moved on to foster economic growth and some social improvements, such as the awarding of a monthly pension to rural workers who had never had the chance to pay social security. The objectives of Caetano's pension reform were threefold: enhancing equity, reducing fiscal and actuarial imbalance, and achieving more efficiency for the economy as a whole, for example, by establishing contributions less distortive to labour markets or by allowing the savings generated by pension funds to increase the investments in the economy. In 1969, with the replacement of Salazar by Marcelo Caetano, the Estado Novo-controlled nation got indeed a very slight taste of democracy and Caetano allowed the formation of the first democratic labour union movement since the 1920s.\n\nUntil the 1960s, post-primary education was limited to a tiny elite. In general, teenagers used to leave school and start to work early. In contrast with other European nations, the country had had a poor record in educational policies since the 19th century. By the end of the 19th century the illiteracy rate was at over 80 percent and higher education was reserved for a small percentage of the population. 68.1 percent of Portugal's population was still classified as illiterate by the 1930 census. Portugal's literacy rate by the 1940s and early 1950s remained low for North American and Western European standards at the time. However, in the 1960s the country made public education available for all children between the ages of six and twelve, founded universities in the overseas provinces of Angola and Mozambique (the University of Luanda and the University of Lourenço Marques during the period of Adriano Moreira as Minister of the Overseas Provinces), recognized the Portuguese Catholic University in 1971, and by 1973 a wave of new state-run universities were founded across mainland Portugal (the Minho University, the New University of Lisbon, the University of Évora, and the University of Aveiro – Veiga Simão was the Minister in charge for education by then). In addition, the long established Lisbon and Coimbra universities were highly expanded and modernized in the 1960s. New buildings and campuses were constructed, like the \"Cidade Universitária\" (Lisbon) and the \"Alta Universitária\" (Coimbra). The last two decades of the Estado Novo, from the 1960s to the 1974 Carnation Revolution, were marked by strong investment in secondary and university education, which experienced in this period one of the fastest growth rates of Portuguese education history to date. Though this corresponded to significant growth of post-primary enrollment in larger urban areas, yet there was a gap to be filled in the following years, given the little time to overcome their disadvantaged starting position. The massification of secondary education was only achieved in the late 1970s and 1980s, so by the time of the Carnation Revolution in 1974 illiteracy was receding, but low-literacy and illiteracy was still high, compared with the highest standards already achieved by the most developed countries in the world.\n\nEgas Moniz, a Portuguese physician who developed the cerebral angiography and leucotomy, received in 1949 the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine – even now, the only Portuguese recipient of a Nobel in the sciences.\n\nAfter India achieved independence in 1947 under the Attlee government, pro-Indian residents of the Portuguese overseas territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, with the support of the Indian government and the help of pro-independence organizations, liberated Dadra and Nagar Haveli from Portuguese rule in 1954. In 1961, the fort of São João Baptista de Ajuda's annexation by the Republic of Dahomey was the start of a process that led to the final dissolution of the centuries-old Portuguese Empire. According to the census of 1921 São João Baptista de Ajudá had 5 inhabitants and, at the moment of the ultimatum by the Dahomey Government, it had only 2 inhabitants representing Portuguese Sovereignty. Another forcible retreat from overseas territories occurred in December 1961 when Portugal refused to relinquish the territories of Goa, Daman and Diu. As a result, the Portuguese army and navy were involved in armed conflict in its colony of Portuguese India against the Indian Armed Forces. The operations resulted in the defeat of the limited Portuguese defensive garrison, which was forced to surrender to a much larger military force. The outcome was the loss of the remaining Portuguese territories in the Indian subcontinent. The Portuguese regime refused to recognize Indian sovereignty over the annexed territories, which continued to be represented in Portugal's National Assembly. The so-called \"Winds of Change\" concerning historical colonization in Europe-ruled overseas territories, started to have influence over the centuries-old empire. The end of the Estado Novo effectively began with the uprisings in the overseas territories in Africa during the 1960s. The independence movements active in Portuguese Angola, Portuguese Mozambique and Portuguese Guinea were supported by both the United States and the Soviet Union, which both wanted to end all colonial empires and expand their own spheres of influence.\n\nFor the Portuguese ruling regime, the centuries-old overseas empire was a matter of national interest. The criticism against some kinds of racial discrimination in the Portuguese African territories were refuted on the grounds that all Portuguese Africans would be Westernized and assimilated in due time, through a process called civilising mission. The wars had the same effects in Portugal as the Vietnam War in the United States, or the Afghanistan War in the Soviet Union; they were unpopular and expensive lengthy wars which were isolating Portugal's diplomacy, leading many to question the continuation of the war and, by extension, the government. Although Portugal was able to maintain some superiority in the colonies by its use of elite paratroopers and special operations troops, the foreign support to the guerrillas, including arms embargoes and other sanctions against the Portuguese, made them more maneuverable, allowing them to inflict losses on the Portuguese army. The international community isolated Portugal due to the long-lasting Colonial War. The situation was aggravated by the illness of Salazar, the strong man of the regime, in 1968. His replacement was one of his closest advisors, Marcelo Caetano, who tried to slowly democratize the country, but could not hide the obvious dictatorship that oppressed Portugal. Salazar died in 1970.\n\nAfter spending the early years of his priesthood in Africa, the British priest Adrian Hastings created a storm in 1973 with an article in \"The Times\" about the \"Wiriyamu massacre\" in Mozambique, revealing that the Portuguese Army had massacred some 400 villagers at the village of Wiriyamu, near Tete, in December 1972. His report was printed a week before the Portuguese prime minister, Marcelo Caetano, was due to visit Britain to celebrate the 600th anniversary of the Anglo-Portuguese Alliance. Portugal's growing isolation following Hastings's claims has often been cited as a factor that helped to bring about the \"carnation revolution\" coup which deposed the Caetano regime in 1974.\n\nThe various conflicts forced the Salazar and subsequent Caetano governments to spend more of the country's budget on colonial administration and military expenditures, and Portugal soon found itself increasingly isolated from the rest of the world. After Caetano succeeded to the presidency, the colonial war became a major cause of dissent and a focus for anti-government forces in Portuguese society. Many young dissidents, such as left-wing students and anti-war activists, were forced to leave the country so they could escape imprisonment or conscription. However, between 1945 and 1974, there were also three generations of militants of the radical right at the Portuguese universities and schools, guided by a revolutionary nationalism partly influenced by the political sub-culture of European neofascism. The core of the struggle of these radical students lay in an uncompromising defence of the Portuguese Empire in the days of the authoritarian regime.\n\nBy the early 1970s, the Portuguese Colonial War continued to rage on, requiring a steadily increasing budget. The Portuguese military was overstretched and there was no political solution or end in sight. While the human losses were relatively small, the war as a whole had already entered its second decade. The Portuguese ruling regime of Estado Novo faced criticism from the international community and was becoming increasingly isolated. It had a profound impact on Portugal – thousands of young men avoided conscription by emigrating illegally, mainly to France and the US.\n\nThe war in the colonies was increasingly unpopular in Portugal itself as the people became weary of war and balked at its ever-rising expense. Many ethnic Portuguese of the African overseas territories were also increasingly willing to accept independence if their economic status could be preserved. However, despite the guerrilla's unpredictable and sporadic attacks against targets all over the countryside of the Portuguese African territories, the economies of both Portuguese Angola and Mozambique were booming, cities and towns were expanding and prospering steadily over time, new transportation networks were being opened to link the well-developed and highly urbanized coastal strip with the more remote inland regions, and the number of ethnic European Portuguese migrants from mainland Portugal (the \"metrópole\") increased rapidly since the 1950s (although always as a small minority of each territory's total population).\n\nSuddenly, after some failed attempts of military rebellion, in April 1974 the Carnation Revolution in Lisbon, organized by left-wing Portuguese military officers – the Armed Forces Movement (MFA), overthrew the Estado Novo regime. The military-led coup can be described as the necessary means of bringing back democracy to Portugal, ending the unpopular Colonial War where thousands of Portuguese soldiers had been commissioned, and replacing the authoritarian \"Estado Novo\" (New State) regime and its secret police which repressed elemental civil liberties and political freedoms. However, the military coup's organization started as a professional class protest of Portuguese Armed Forces captains against a decree law: the \"Dec. Lei nº 353/73\" of 1973. Younger military academy graduates resented a program introduced by Marcello Caetano whereby militia officers who completed a brief training program and had served in the overseas territories' defensive campaigns, could be commissioned at the same rank as military academy graduates. Caetano's Portuguese Government had begun the program (which included several other reforms) in order to increase the number of officials employed against the African insurgencies, and at the same time cut down military costs to alleviate an already overburdened government budget. After the coup, the MFA-led National Salvation Junta, a military junta, took power. Caetano resigned, and was flown under custody to the Madeira Islands where he stayed for a few days. He then flew to exile in Brazil. By 1975 the Portuguese Empire had all but collapsed.\n\nAfter the \"Estado Novo\" the country would then experience a turbulent period of provisional governments and a nearly disintegrated state reminiscent of the First Republic, a condition that the \"Estado Novo\" had so assiduously attempted to avoid. These provisional governments also briefly censored newspapers and detained oppositionists. Historian Kenneth Maxwell considers that, for many reasons, Portugal, in its transition from authoritarian rule to a more democratic government, resembled Nicaragua more than any other among the South American nations. During the final months of the Francoist State, which had survived to this point, Spain considered invading Portugal to check the perceived threat of communism caused by the Carnation Revolution.\n\nAfter a period of social unrest, factionalism, and uncertainty in Portuguese politics, between 1974 and 1976, neither far left nor far right radicalism prevailed. However, pro-communist and socialist elements retained control of the country for several months before elections. Álvaro Cunhal's Portuguese Communist Party (PCP) remained Stalinist in outlook and unsympathetic to the sort of reforms that were emerging as \"Euro-Communism\" in other countries in Western Europe.\n\nThe retreat from the colonies and the acceptance of its independence terms which would create newly independent communist states in 1975 (most notably the People's Republic of Angola and the People's Republic of Mozambique) prompted a mass exodus of Portuguese citizens from Portugal's African territories (mostly from Portuguese Angola and Mozambique), creating over a million destitute Portuguese refugees — the \"retornados\". By 1975, all the Portuguese African territories were independent and Portugal held its first democratic elections in 50 years. However, the country continued to be governed by a military-civilian provisional administration until the Portuguese legislative election of 1976.\n\nFor the Portuguese and their former colonies, this was a very difficult period, but many felt that the short-term effects of the Carnation Revolution were well worth the trouble when civil rights and political freedoms were achieved. The Portuguese celebrate Freedom Day on 25 April every year, and the day is a national holiday in Portugal.\n\nBy refusing to grant independence to its overseas territories in Africa, the Portuguese ruling regime of Estado Novo was criticized by most of the international community, and its leaders Salazar and Caetano were accused of being blind to the \"Winds of change\". After the Carnation revolution in 1974 and the fall of the incumbent Portuguese authoritarian regime, almost all the Portugal-ruled territories outside Europe became independent. For the regime, the retention of those overseas possessions had been a matter of national interest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1474868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1474868", "title": "Flame of Liberty", "text": "Flame of Liberty\n\nThe Flame of Liberty (\"Flamme de la Liberté\") in Paris is a full-sized, gold-leaf-covered replica of the flame of the torch from the Statue of Liberty (\"Liberty Enlightening the World\"), located at the entrance to the harbor of New York City since 1886. The monument, which measures approximately 3.5 metres in height, is a sculpture of a flame, executed in gilded copper, supported by a pedestal of gray-and-black marble. It is located near the northern end of the Pont de l'Alma, on the Place de l'Alma, in the 8th arrondissement.\n\nIt was offered to Paris in 1989 by the \"International Herald Tribune\" on behalf of donors who had contributed approximately $400,000 for its fabrication. It represented the culmination of that newspaper's 1987 celebration of its hundredth anniversary of publishing an English-language daily newspaper in Paris. More importantly, the \"Flame\" was a token of thanks for the restoration work on the Statue of Liberty accomplished three years earlier by two French businesses that did artisanal work on the project, namely Métalliers Champenois, which did the bronze work, and the Gohard Studios, which applied the gold leaf. While the gift to France was prompted by the centennial of the newspaper, the \"Flame of Liberty\", more broadly, is a lasting symbol of the friendship uniting the two countries, just as the statue itself was when it was given to the United States by France.\n\nThis project was overseen by the director of the French craft unions at that time, Jacques Graindorge. He foresaw an installation of the \"Flame of Liberty\" in a public square called Place des États-Unis (United States Square) in the 16th arrondissement, but the mayor of Paris at the time, Jacques Chirac, was opposed to it. After a protracted period of negotiations, it was decided that the \"Flame\" would be placed in an open area near the intersection of l'Avenue de New-York (New York Avenue) and the Place de l'Alma. The monument was dedicated on 10 May 1989 by Chirac. \n\nOn the base of the monument, a commemorative plaque recounts the following story:\n\nThe \"Flame of Liberty\" became an unofficial memorial for Diana, Princess of Wales, after her 1997 death in the tunnel beneath the Pont de l'Alma. The flame became an attraction for tourists and followers of Diana, who fly-posted the base with commemorative material. Anthropologist Guy Lesoeurs said, \"Most people who come here think this was built for her.\"\n\nThe site of the monument is served by the Métro de Paris station Alma-Marceau on Line No. 9 and by the RER commuter rail station, Pont de l'Alma, on its 'C' Line, as well as by buses numbered 42, 63, 72, 80, 92, and the Balabus sightseeing buses.\n"}
{"id": "17366360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17366360", "title": "Fleet Survey Team", "text": "Fleet Survey Team\n\nComposed of approximately 65 military and civilian members, Fleet Survey Team (FST) is collocated with the\nNaval Oceanographic Office and Commander, Naval Meteorology and Oceanography Command, at Stennis\nSpace Center, MS.\n\nFST, an echelon-five command since 2006, is tasked with performing an unparalleled function within the U.S.\nNavy.\n\nThe command enables combatant commanders with access in the littoral regions through expeditionary hydrography.\nWhen forces are armed with detailed descriptions of the environmental conditions they could face, operations have\na greater chance of being safely and efficiently executed.\n\nFST gathers the needed information via timely, self-contained hydrographic surveys in response to combatant\ncommanders’ requests. These requests frequently are for areas where Navy operations will take place or where charting\naccuracy is uncertain.\n\nFST members (both civilian and military) can quickly deploy to areas around the world outfitted with equipment\nto perform surveys from various boats of opportunity. Because of these unique capabilities, civilian and military\nmembers of FST have deployed to areas of combat like the Middle East to perform near-shore surveys to collect\ndata which aids in the safe navigation of U.S. forces and supplies traversing the area.\n\nFST members have also played significant roles in charting areas affected by natural disasters such as the south\nAsia tsunami of 2004 and hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nCommand personnel offer a unique blend of military and civilian knowledge and experience. Enlisted sailors\nroutinely qualify as level two military hydrographers, certifying their skills.\n\nIn addition to their strong backgrounds in math, science and engineering, officers and civilians frequently obtain\nmaster’s degrees in hydrographic science through an ongoing program with The University of Southern Mississippi\nand are also recognized by the International Hydrographic Office as Category A hydrographers.\n\nFleet Survey Team command members are commonly known as the Fightin’ Crawdads in reference to the crawfish featured prominently in the FST logo.\n\nhttp://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA527615\n\n"}
{"id": "14202975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14202975", "title": "G8 Climate Change Roundtable", "text": "G8 Climate Change Roundtable\n\nThe G8 Climate Change Roundtable was formed in January 2005 at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Its purpose was to address the global climate change issue facing governments, business and civil society. The first meeting was held in Gleneagles, Scotland, from 6–8 July 2005, to coincide with the 31st G8 summit.\n\nThe roundtable was established by twenty-three leading international businesses with the assistance of G8 President and Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Tony Blair, to co-operatively engage in a global plan of action. The aim of the group was to ensure that a long-term policy framework was set up to enable consistent and transparent market-based solutions in mitigating climate change, while also addressing issues linked to climate change; such as economic growth, poverty, and adequate energy supplies. Carbon trading is one of the most popular pricing mechanisms used to the reduce greenhouse emissions worldwide.\n\nThe group devised a Framework for Action which called for technology incentive programs, the establishment of common metrics, for example in energy efficiency, and the expansion of emissions trading schemes.\n\nSome of the companies participating include Ford, British Airways, HSBC, EdF and BP. Now, the Climate Change Roundtable has a membership of 150 businesses spread across the globe.\n\nEnvironmentalists raised concerns that the body's statement does not call for targets or include timetables. Friends of the Earth noted that the roundtable represented a major shift by the business community towards efforts to mitigate climate change.\n\nThe G8 Climate Change Roundtable stated 5 key points to be addressed:\n\nThe G8 Climate Change Roundtable developed 5 key principles for businesses to consider when crafting a climate change mitigation strategy. These principles are:\n\nThe G8 Climate Change Roundtable developed 3 key principles for governments to consider when addressing climate change. Governments should:\n\nThe G8 Climate Change Roundtable aimed to create a long-term policy framework which was both transparent and consistent. Through market based solutions such as carbon trading, the Roundtable established a policy framework which now encompasses 150 businesses across the globe.\n\nBy creating long term value, these members established a market based framework extending to 2030 and indicative signals extending to 2050. This policy framework they hoped would take on a global scale, with consistent policies throughout the various states. The framework was meant to not only mitigate climate change but also promote sustainable development by addressing issues of poverty, energy and economic growth in emerging markets.\n\nThe Roundtable recommended encouraging technological innovation through performance based incentives. By quickly commercializing low carbon technologies they aimed to mitigate climate change quickly. They noted that by ensuring that climate change mitigation goals aligned with societal goals, governments would be able to optimize greenhouse gas reductions.\nBy ensuring that emerging markets, such as China, India, Brazil, South African and Mexico, invest in low carbon economic growth, new technologies can be applied globally while streamlining emerging markets. New investments should align with societal goals, creating partnerships between G8 nations as well as emerging nations. Through such a partnership, members can effectively collaborate on specific projects within countries or rapid dissemination of specific technologies.\n\nMembers of the new policy framework should establish common metrics. By streamlining greenhouse emissions reporting processes and systems, countries can achieve this goal.\nBusiness and G8 governments should use supply chain drivers and the power of procurement to integrate climate change solutions into their global supply chain requirements. By committing to the use of the Roundtable’s policy framework throughout the supply chain, optimal greenhouse gas mitigation can be achieved.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "377748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377748", "title": "GLBTQ Legal Advocates &amp; Defenders", "text": "GLBTQ Legal Advocates &amp; Defenders\n\nGLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD) is a non-profit legal rights organization in the United States. The organization works to end discrimination based on sexual orientation, HIV status, and gender identity and expression. The organization primarily achieves this goal through litigation, advocacy, and education work in all areas of LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender) rights and the rights of people living with HIV. In addition, GLAD operates a legal information line, GLAD Answers, where LGBTQ & HIV+ residents of New England can receive attorney referrals and information about their rights. The organization changed its name to GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders in February 2016.\n\nGLAD is based in Boston, Massachusetts, and serves the New England area of Northeastern United States.\n\nGLAD was originally called the Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders. It was founded by John Ward in 1978, in response to a sting operation conducted by Boston police that resulted in the arrest of more than a hundred men in the men's rooms of the main building of the Boston Public Library. GLAD filed its first case, \"Doe v. McNiff\", that same year and eventually all those arrested were either found not guilty or had the charges against them dismissed. An early victory came in \"Fricke v. Lynch\" (1980), in which GLAD represented Aaron Fricke, an 18-year-old student at Cumberland High School in Rhode Island, who won the right to bring a same-sex date to a high school dance.\n\n\nIn 1997, GLAD, along with Beth Robinson and Susan Murray filed a lawsuit, \"Baker v. Vermont\" on behalf of three Vermont couples seeking the right to marry. On December 20, 1999 The Vermont Supreme Court ruled that same-sex couples must be granted the same legal benefits, protections, and obligations as marriage under Vermont law. As a direct result of this decision in 2000 Vermont became the first state to allow same-sex couples to enter a legal relationship equal to marriage, known in Vermont as a civil union.\n\nIn 2003, GLAD received national attention for its work in winning marriage rights for same-sex couples in Massachusetts. In \"Goodridge v. Department of Public Health\", it successfully argued before the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court that to restrict marriage to heterosexual couples was a violation of the state constitution. In October 2008, GLAD won marriage rights for same-sex couples in Connecticut with a decision of the Supreme Court of Connecticut in \"Kerrigan v. Commissioner of Public Health\".\n\nOn November 18, 2008, the fifth anniversary of \"Goodridge\", GLAD, working with other statewide groups, launched a project called the \"Six by Twelve\" campaign that aimed to bring same-sex marriage to all six New England states by 2012. The campaign aimed to make New England a \"marriage equality zone.\" The campaign worked primarily through state legislatures and hoped to provide a road map for the rest of the country in 2012. Within six months, same-sex marriage laws were passed in three more states, but the Maine law was repealed by the voters on November 3, 2009. After this decision by the voters, along with a coalition of other civil rights groups, GLAD proceeded with a two-year public education campaign in Maine. On June 30, 2011, EqualityMaine and GLAD announced plans to place a voter initiative in support of same-sex marriage on Maine's November 2012 ballot. The voter initiative passed, making Maine the first state to legalize same sex marriage through a ballot vote. On May 2, 2013 the \"Six by Twelve\" campaign came to a close when Rhode Island's legislature passed a bill allowing same-sex couples to marry and Governor Lincoln Chafee signed it into law.\n\nWhen it filed \"Gill v. Office of Personnel Management\" in March 2009, GLAD became the first organization to file a federal court challenge to Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) that prevented the federal government from recognizing the validity of same-sex marriages. On November 9, 2010, GLAD filed a second challenge to Section 3 with \"Pedersen v. Office of Personnel Management\". It won both cases in U.S. District Court and in the First and Second Circuit Courts of Appeals, respectively. In July and August 2012, the U.S. Department of Justice filed certiorari petitions in the U.S. Supreme Court in both those cases. The Supreme Court chose instead to review \"Windsor v. United States\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26427812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26427812", "title": "HPCR Manual on International Law Applicable to Air and Missile Warfare", "text": "HPCR Manual on International Law Applicable to Air and Missile Warfare\n\nAfter consulting with scholars and governmental experts, the Program on Humanitarian Policy and Conflict Research at Harvard University (HPCR) created in 2003 a multi-annual Project intended to restate the existing international laws applicable to air and missile warfare. This Project helped to formulate the \"HPCR Manual\" on International Law Applicable to Air and Missile Warfare. In 1923, the Rules of Air Warfare were drafted at the Hague by a Commission of Jurists. Since then, air power has become a crucial element of military arsenal and modern warfare. The developments in air and missile technology in the last few decades have completely altered military strategy and created distinct challenges to the protection of civilians in time of armed conflict. Although a number of international treaties have been adopted in response to modern warfare, including the four 1949 Geneva Conventions for the Protection of War Victims, the two Additional Protocols of 1977, and various conventions regarding cultural property, biological weapons, and chemical weapons, many important aspects of air and missile operations are not included. Also, some of these instruments, especially AP/I, are not binding on all states, including the United States. Because of this, the Commentary on the HPCR Manual identifies US practices and positions which are consistent with the rules of AP/I.\n\nThe goal of the \"HPCR Manual\" is to give a methodical restatement of international law and air and missile warfare, based on the practice of States accepted as law and treaties in force. Because the authors of the HPCR Manual have no legislative power, there is no innovative aspect. By providing a reference on international law applicable to air and missile warfare, the HPCR Manual will help to stimulate discussions among legal advisors, military advisors, and humanitarian practitioners, which in turn will help improve the protection of civilians in armed conflict.\n\nThe HPCR Manual hopes to serve as a valuable resource for military forces while developing rules of engagement, writing military manuals, preparing training courses, and the actual conduct of armed forces in combat operations, while also providing the armed services' lawyers a cohesive text to assist them in their tasks. The HPCR Manual is a practical tool that will make decision-making easier in a real-time operational environment, while also giving confidence to those who utilize it. The objective of the HPCR Manual is to be of help to those who plan, approve or execute air or missile operations before rather than after the event. The HPCR Manual is also meant to be used by other segments of armed forces, such as commanders of forces that are receiving these attacks. Needless to say, it is hoped that the HPCR Manual will be used extensively in training and instruction courses in both wartime and peacetime, so as to familiarize prospective users with the patterns of behavior expected of them.\n\nThe Black-Letter Rules of the \"HPCR Manual\" are a collective creation of the Group of Experts. The Black-Letter Rules reflect the consensus of the Group of Experts as to the state of the most significant elements of International Humanitarian Law bearing on air and missile warfare in 2009. Each Black-Letter Rule of the HPCR Manual includes a user-friendly explanation for both legal advisers and those who plan, approve or execute air or missile operations on both sides of the armed conflict. The commentary is done in \"bullet point\" style.\n\nThe Core Group of Experts is made up of 24 people, including Claude Bruderlein, Director of the Program on Humanitarian Policy and Conflict Research at Harvard University, Dr. Yoram Dinstein, Senior Academic Advisor at HPCR and Professor Emeritus of International Law at Tel Aviv University, Knut Dörmann, Head of the Legal Division at the International Committee of the Red Cross, Dr. Frits Kalshoven, Professor Emeritus of International Law at Leiden University, Colonel (ret.) W. Hays Parks, Former Special Assistant to the Judge Advocate General of the Army for Law of War Matters with the Office of General Counsel in the US Department of Defense, Professor Michael N Schmitt, Dean and Professor of International Law at the George C. Marshall Center, and Dr. Zhu Wenqi, Professor of International Law at the Law School of Renmin University of China. Other experts, including 7 government experts and 6 experts that participated in some of the sessions, also contributed to the \"HPCR Manual\".\n\n(1) \"IHL in Air and Missile Warfare\" Homepage \n(2) \"HPCR Manual on International Law Applicable to Air and Missile Warfare\" \n"}
{"id": "42564139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42564139", "title": "Independence from Europe", "text": "Independence from Europe\n\nIndependence from Europe was a minor, Eurosceptic political party in the United Kingdom. The party was first registered in June 2012 but remained inactive until it was launched in October 2013 by sole party leader Mike Nattrass, a disaffected member of the UK Independence Party (UKIP). It had no official political representation at the time of its dissolution in November 2017, but previously had one Member of the European Parliament (MEP) and three Councillors, all of whom were once members of UKIP.\n\nNattrass' deselection as a UKIP candidate in August 2013 saw him voluntarily leave the party and after deliberation, launch his own group whilst still an MEP. The party's name changed twice subsequently, largely due to the potential of voters mistaking it with UKIP; use of the word \"Independence\" in both parties' names proved particularly contentious, prompting two separate investigations by the Electoral Commission. Virtually all commentators dismissed the party as a means for disgruntled former UKIP members to confuse the electorate and split their previous party's support, an allegation Independence from Europe denied. This is despite the party costing UKIP between one and three seats at the 2014 European Parliament election, for which Nattrass' group is perhaps best known. Collecting 1.49% of the national vote, it proved to be their most successful election, although the party never had a candidate elected to any office.\n\nIt shared a similar right-wing policy platform with UKIP, with Nattrass stating as such amid the party's launch. Key policies included withdrawing the UK from the European Union (EU), prioritising relations with the Commonwealth of Nations and introducing more stringent measures on immigration. It further supported widespread use of referenda, promoting English devolution and abolishing the National Assembly for Wales. Nattrass placed his party to the left of UKIP, however, due to both the party's general opposition to privatisation and its proposed nationalisation of targeted infrastructure and amenities.\n\nBefore establishing the party, Mike Nattrass had long been involved with Britain's Eurosceptic movement. In 1994, Nattrass joined the right-wing New Britain Party and unsuccessfully stood for the group in the Dudley West by-election of the same year. Alike most New Britain candidates, Nattrass was absorbed into and stood in Solihull for the single-issue Referendum Party at the 1997 general election. Led by James Goldsmith, this party's policy was for a referendum to be held on the UK's relationship with the European Union (EU), specifically as to whether the British population wanted to be part of a federal Europe or a free-trade bloc without wider political functions. Nattrass subsequently joined the UK Independence Party (UKIP) and eventually rose to the positions of Party Chairman and Deputy Leader. As the UKIP candidate, he was elected as a representative for the West Midlands constituency in the 2004 European Parliament election, and was re-elected in 2009.\n\nNattrass failed a candidacy assessment in August 2013 and was duly deselected as UKIP candidate for the 2014 election, prompting him to initiate unsuccessful legal action against the party. He duly left UKIP and was in talks with the English Democrats, but cancelled plans to ally with them after they prematurely announced his joining the party. Nattrass, still a Member of the European Parliament (MEP), instead launched his own party after considering a career as an independent. An Independence Party's creation was announced in October 2013, being renamed An Independence from Europe on 7 March 2014 to avoid confusion with UKIP. Nattrass had previously considered the label 4 A Referendum. Electoral Commission records show that he had registered his own party significantly earlier, on 20 June 2012. From this date, he had also been filing financial statements for the fledgling, albeit inactive, organisation. The new party's development benefited from an incident in September 2013 when a Lincolnshire County Councillor, Chris Pain, was expelled from UKIP over an internal controversy. Fellow UKIP Councillors Alan Jesson and John Beaver supported Pain's innocence and were also expelled from the party for plotting to form a breakaway faction. All three became members of Nattrass' party and proceeded to represent their wards accordingly.\n\nAn Independence from Europe fielded 60 candidates in the 2014 European Parliament election, proposing representatives for each of England's nine constituencies. The most notable of whom were Nattrass, who sought re-election in the West Midlands, and Laurence Stassen, a Dutch MEP who had recently left the Party for Freedom (PVV) and was vying for election in the South East England region. Stassen's unusual standing for the party \"demonstrate[d] the extent to which MEPs whose true ambition is to remain in the European Parliament will go in order to remain in their seat\" according to political scientist William T. Daniel. The party did not stand candidates in the Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland constituencies. Campaigning for the election included a nationwide party political broadcast through the BBC on 8 May and Nattrass' appearance on \"Daily Politics\", where he was interviewed by Andrew Neil on 14 May. Despite claiming it would receive more than 10% of the national vote and elect up to four MEPs, the party only collected 1.49% (235,124 ballots) and all candidates were defeated. Finishing seventh, it was the highest placed party not to elect an MEP; it polled more votes than the British National Party (BNP), which was defending two seats.\nPreviously, pressure had come from UKIP for the party to change its name and official tagline, 'UK Independence Now', believing it was a strategy to split their vote. This, in addition to the use of 'An' at the beginning of the party name, placing them highest alphabetically on the ballot paper, prompted an investigation by the Electoral Commission at the request of UKIP. Nattrass remarked \"UKIP does not have sole right to the word independence\" and the Commission soon dismissed the complaint. Notwithstanding, UKIP claimed the party's similar name unfairly cost them a seat in South West England to the benefit of the Green Party, with Nattrass' group acquiring around 23,000 votes in the region. UKIP's then-leader Nigel Farage later complained \"[a]llowing Nattrass to launch a party with that name was shocking and showed the absolute contempt that the establishment have for us ... they were given the green light to dupe voters.\" Political scientists Matthew Goodwin and Caitlin Milazzo concur, calling it \"a deliberate attempt to confuse voters and damage Nattrass's old party.\"\n\nThe party's credibility was further attacked by commentators reporting the affair; Christopher Hope of \"The Daily Telegraph\" dismissed the group as being \"set up late last year to confuse voters who were trying to back Ukip\". Journalist Donal Blaney further labelled them \"hitherto unheard-of\" outside the incident. Blaney also invokes Mike Smithson's opinion that if UKIP had acquired the minor party's overall vote share, it would have won two additional seats; Farage posited \"some think it cost us three.\" In response to the incident, citing his deselection, Nattrass retorted \"[d]id [Farage] expect me just to melt away? No, I am going down with my flag.\" A second review by the Commission found the name was unsuitable and the party became Independence from Europe on 23 February 2015, in time for that year's general election.\n\nAt the 2015 general election, the party contested five constituencies, despite previously indicating it would vie for ten. These were the Lincolnshire seats of Boston and Skegness and Brigg and Goole alongside the West Midlands seats of Meriden and Solihull; additionally contested was Cheadle, a constituency in Greater Manchester. Nattrass once again appeared on \"Daily Politics\", interviewed by Jo Coburn on 1 April. No candidates were elected and the party accumulated a negligible vote share. Local elections in the same year saw the party unsuccessfully contest eight wards on East Lindsey District Council, with an additional candidate failing in his bid for election to Leicester City Council. The following year's local elections saw the party field a candidate for Exeter City Council, who was comfortably defeated. A day later, the party contested a local by-election for Croydon London Borough Council triggered by the resignation of Emily Benn; the party finished second last, above Winston McKenzie of the English Democrats. Independence from Europe failed to field any candidates in the 2017 local elections; incumbent Councillors Alan Jesson and John Beaver did not seek re-election and Chris Pain defected to the Lincolnshire Independents, leaving the party with no official political representation. The party did not contest any constituencies at the 2017 general election. It was \"statutorily deregistered\" by the Electoral Commission on 2 November of that year.\n\nLittle to no academic commentary has been conducted with regard to the party's ideology. Upon its launch in 2013, Nattrass implied \"it will have similar right wing ideals as UKIP\", only to assert a year later that \"we are not the same, we are to the left of UKIP.\" He subsequently repeated the line in 2015. Aside from any ideological reason, the party was founded out of a general disaffection with UKIP's management, particularly leader Nigel Farage and Party Chairman Steve Crowther, who left members feeling \"dictated to\". That said, the party stated in 2014 that some UKIP MEPs were frustrated at the party's 2009 effort in creating, and embracing, the Europe of Freedom and Democracy (EFD) group in the European Parliament. Right-wing populist in ideology, Nattrass labelled EFD as \"probably obnoxious\" and temporarily left the group whilst an MEP. Despite calling Farage a \"totalitarian\", Nattrass maintained \"I support the principles UKIP stands for\" whilst protesting his deselection in court. The party claimed to advocate a society comprising \"[p]ersonal freedom with personal responsibility\", supported by what it saw as \"traditional commonsense policies\".\n\nIndependence from Europe's primary policy was to guarantee that the United Kingdom left the European Union (EU). This included its legal accessories, promising a withdrawal from the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). The party advocated the increased use of direct democracy, namely through referenda. Petitions with support from more than 5% of the electorate would trigger a national referendum on a respective issue, with the outcome legally binding by default. Conversely, Nattrass stated in 2014 that his party was adverse to the idea of a nationwide vote on the UK's membership of the EU, calling for \"MPs with backbone\" to ensure a departure was delivered.\n\nThe party advocated sweeping reforms of the UK's legislative process. These included a reduction of the number of Members of Parliament (MPs) in the House of Commons by one third (650 to 430) and the replacement of the House of Lords with an elected upper chamber. Scheduled debates would have been introduced, upon which members for Northern Irish, Scottish and Welsh constituencies would return to their devolved legislatures, leaving the UK Parliament to discuss English affairs exclusively. The party repeatedly advocated the abolition of the National Assembly for Wales, however, at one time adopting the tagline 'Abolish Assembly and leave European Union'; it suggested a referendum be held in Wales over the matter. Devolved legislatures' membership would have no longer consisted of politicians elected specifically to those chambers (i.e. MLAs, MSPs or AMs), but would have instead comprised those UK MPs returning routinely from the national parliament.\n\nOn an individual basis, MPs would have been paid and claimed expenses in-line with existing British civil service guidelines. If elected, the party claimed it would \"[b]uild a condominium to house MP's whilst they reside in London\" and scrap their second home allowances. Legislators would have been accountable by way of an 'Independent Politicians Complaints Commission', with its members chosen by designated non-governmental organisations (NGOs). Furthermore, the activities of political parties would have faced greater regulation; whips would have been removed from the select committee appointment process and party sanctioning against rebellious MPs disallowed.\n\nThe party claimed that by disowning tariffs and restrictions imposed by the European Union Customs Union (EUCU) the UK could focus on adopting amicable free trade with the Commonwealth of Nations. The party would have further sought to reduce unemployment by limiting the proportion of migrant work imported from EU member states, as well as attempted to lower Council Tax by scrapping the fiscal implications of the union's Landfill Directive. Independence from Europe claimed that by abandoning the EU, and thus the cost of membership, the UK's national debt could have been cleared. Domestic budgetary policies included the raising of personal allowance to £15,000, broad simplification of both personal and corporate tax and opposition to zero-hours contracts. In addition, the party condoned the forced collection of tax from evaders and the nationalisation of private finance initiatives (PFIs).\n\nThe party opposed government subsidy of wind turbines and instead proposed the increased use of clean coal technology and nuclear fusion to address the UK's energy shortage. This would have been accompanied by a state-owned 'Public British Energy Company', a measure that the party hoped would keep consumer costs affordable. The party would also have abandoned catch quotas set by the EU's Common Fisheries Policy and established 'no fishing zones' to ensure plentiful stocks.\n\nIn transport policy, Independence from Europe was generally skeptical of large-scale developments. BBC News characterised the group's opposition to the construction of the High Speed 2 (HS2) railway as among \"[i]ts key policies\"; the group further warned against expansion of London's Standsted and Gatwick airports, as well as the introduction of a third runway at Heathrow. Furthermore, the party sought to abolish toll roads and nationalise UK railway franchises \"if they fail[ed] in viability or in their contractual obligations.\"\n\nThe group sought to re-establish \"traditional links\" with the Commonwealth of Nations, believing that the UK had \"lost invaluable trading links, respect and friendship\" with the organisation since joining the EU. Independence from Europe twice asserted that the UK misspends foreign aid on countries wealthy enough to fund independent space programs, it suggested such funding should be diverted to support Britain's elderly population. In defence policy, the party pledged to increase the number of armed forces personnel to 200,000 and reduce the amount of British troops sent to fight abroad, further encouraging the United Nations (UN) to take more responsibility over international security.\n\nIndependence from Europe called for stricter immigration policy to be implemented in the UK, but refused to set a statistical migration target. It supported an 'Australian-style' points-based system to regulate immigration once the UK had left the European Economic Area (EEA), citing pressures on population growth, housing and infrastructure. Foreigners would also have faced more stringent rules once they had arrived; temporary visitors would have had to carry identification at all times, as well as resided in the UK for at least 10 years before becoming eligible for British citizenship. Such measures, the party hoped, would justify the reintroduction of the country's work permit scheme.\n\nThe party supported the maintenance of Britain's National Health Service (NHS) to be free at the point of delivery and described itself as \"dead against privatisation\" of the institution. Whilst reducing bureaucracy in the NHS, the party would also have aimed to invest a further £5 billion to train 40,000 more nurses in addition to 10,000 extra doctors. Free dental and eye treatment would have been restored and foreign visitors would be required to possess private medical insurance during their time in the UK. It sought to return more community services, like the NHS, into public ownership where they had been privatised entirely or in-part, including prisons and the Post Office. It would have reserved the UK's wider welfare system to cater exclusively for British citizens; they would also have limited the amount of tax credits a childless, able-bodied citizen could receive to 80% of the weekly national minimum wage as well as restricted child benefit payments for households with more than two juveniles and/or a combined annual income of over £50,000. Independence from Europe supported and sought to extend tenants' 'Right to Buy' council and housing association properties.\n\nTo address crime, the party sought to deport foreign offenders, extend neighborhood watch schemes and hold a referendum on restoring capital punishment in the UK. It further pledged to invest £2.5 billion into the police service, promising to recruit 10,000 more officers. In addition, the group would have reformed education policy by aiming to cut school class sizes and scrapping tuition fees for UK students attending British universities; conversely, all foreign students would have been required to pay in full.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31232852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31232852", "title": "Internal Security Service", "text": "Internal Security Service\n\nInternal Security Service (ISS; ) transliterated: \"Jahaz al Amn al Dakhly\", is the national security agency of the Sultanate of Oman. The agency focuses solely upon domestic security while foreign intelligence operations is specifically handled by the Palace Office, which controls external security and coordinates all intelligence and security policies.\n\nThe stated overall purpose of ISS is to investigates all matters related to internal security. The ISS also leads on Omani counter terrorism procedures and outreach activities.\n\nThe ISS can trace its history back to the intelligence and security structures set up using British military intelligence expertise as part of Sultan Said's armed forces in the 1950s. HM Sultan Qaboos developed the capability and the Oman Intelligence Service became the Oman Research Department (ORD); with its main focus being supporting counter insurgency operations in the Dhofar Region in the 1970s. The ORD was re-titled the ISS in 1987.\n\nThe ISS is known to have offices in Qurum (in the Capital area) and Salalah in Dhofar.\n\nIn 1994 and 2005 there were attempted coups against the Sultan's rule and the ISS would have been instrumental in uncovering and investigating the plots.\n\nAs of May 2013, Lieutenant General Said bin Ali bin Zahir al Hilali was appointed Head of the ISS - he had formerly been the Assistant Head of the agency. He was still in post as of November 2015. His former post was passed to Brigadier Ghosn bin Hilal bin Khalifa al Alawi (who was promoted to major general on assuming the post of Assistant Head ISS). Lieutenant General Said al Hilali's brother is the Sultanate's Public Prosecutor, who was reported in 2012 to be ready to use the law to restrict freedom of speech and association.\n\n"}
{"id": "23686265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23686265", "title": "International League of Esperanto Teachers", "text": "International League of Esperanto Teachers\n\nThe International League of Esperanto Teachers (, ILEI) is a non-governmental organization which teaches respect for humanity, life and nature and which seeks to further mutual understanding among peoples. The group advocates the spread of Esperanto language and culture, publishes books and journals, organizes international conferences and administers examinations worldwide to certify the qualifications of Esperanto teachers. ILEI is a special interest group affiliated with both UNESCO and the Universal Esperanto Association (UEA).\n\nFounded in 1949, the first executive council included Violet C. Nixon, (United Kingdom, president), Einar Dahl (Sweden, secretary-treasurer), Jeanne Dedieu (France) and P. Korte (Netherlands). Subsequent ILEI presidents have included István Szerdahelyi (1985–1988), Edward Symoens (1988–1991), Stefan MacGill (1991–1993), Duncan Charters (1993–1998), Mauro La Torre (1998–2003), Radojica Petrovic (2003–2009); Stefan MacGill (2009-2013) and Mireille Grosjean (2013-) \n\nILEI holds conferences, usually every year, with particular themes devoted to culture, tourism and linguistic festivals; most conferences have been in Europe, though Cuba, South Korea, Australia, Japan and Benin have also hosted conferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "2152098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2152098", "title": "Jonathon Lyons", "text": "Jonathon Lyons\n\nJonathon Edward Lyons (born 1951 in Leeds) is a British-Canadian businessman and is the owner and chairman of JE London Properties. \n\nLyons is the youngest son of the financier Isidore Jack Lyons, (Sir Jack Lyons CBE) a former director of the UDS Group. Jonathon Lyons made his fortune in the property and venture capital sectors as well as retail,He had large investments in the middle east Overseas Director (Ronson PLC and Remington)in the distribution licensing sector. Appointed director of Regentflag Limited in February 1990, JLC (London) LTD, appointed director Feb 1990 also director South Bank Pension Fund Trustees Limited on 28 February 1990. Appointed director of J E London Properties Limited 31 Dec 1991. Appointed Director of Bellcrown Estates LTD (dissolved) 5 February 1998. Appointed director of 37 Colville Terreace Management Company Limited, Switzerland. A large proportion of the Lyons family holdings stretch across many freeholds within and around the Notting Hill and Kensington areas as well as large property holdings in the United States.\n\nLyons counts King Abdullah of Jordan as one of his friends, and he was a former friend and adviser to the late King Hussein of Jordan. He was a major donor to the Conservative Party (UK) and to various arts and music charities through the Sir Jack Lyons Charitable Trust, of which he was a trustee. He continues to collect art as well as important classic cars. Lyons has successfully completed competitive classic car events such as London-Cape Town, Liege-Rome-Liege, Monte Carlo Classic, Copa Milano San remo, Lands End to John O’Groats, Mila Miglia and many others, most recently the Samurai Challenge.\n\nFollowing his extensive rally experience, Lyons founded The Jewel Events, which has led him to organise events with classic cars all over the world. Amongst them are various locations in Europe, Jordan, China, South Africa, Cuba, Argentina, Chile, New Zealand, Switzerland, and The Alpes Maritimes.\n\nLyons has been since 2003, and continues to be, a resident of Switzerland.\n\nLyons divorced Miriam Lyons née Djanogly, sister of textile maker Sir Harry Djanogly CBE, in 2010. There are three children.\n"}
{"id": "5574772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5574772", "title": "Kissinger Lecture", "text": "Kissinger Lecture\n\nThe Kissinger Lecture on Foreign Policy and International Relations is an annual lecture given by an invited speaker at the Library of Congress, Washington D.C. It was established in 2001 to honor Henry Kissinger, the former United States Secretary of State, along with the annual Kissinger Scholar as holder of the \"Henry Alfred Kissinger Chair in Foreign Policy and International Relations\" that was established in 2000. \n\nThe lectures have been given by:\n\n"}
{"id": "5136608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5136608", "title": "Kragujevac massacre", "text": "Kragujevac massacre\n\nThe Kragujevac massacre was the mass murder of between 2,778 and 2,794 mostly Serb men and boys in Kragujevac by German soldiers on 21 October 1941. It occurred in the German-occupied territory of Serbia during World War II, and came in reprisal for insurgent attacks in the Gornji Milanovac district that resulted in the deaths of 10 German soldiers and the wounding of 26 others. The number of hostages to be shot was calculated as a ratio of 100 hostages executed for every German soldier killed and 50 hostages executed for every German soldier wounded, a formula devised by Adolf Hitler with the intent of suppressing anti-Nazi resistance in Eastern Europe.\n\nAfter a punitive operation was conducted in the surrounding villages, during which 422 males were shot and four villages burned down, another 70 male Jews and communists who had been arrested in Kragujevac were shot. Simultaneously, males between the ages of 16 and 60, including high school students, were assembled by German troops and local collaborators, and the victims were selected from amongst them. The selected males were then marched to fields outside the city, shot with heavy machine guns, and their bodies buried in mass graves. Contemporary German military records indicate that 2,300 hostages were shot. After the war, inflated estimates ranged as high as 7,000 deaths, but German and Serbian scholars have now agreed on the figure of nearly 2,800 killed, including 144 high school students. As well as Serbs, massacre victims included Jews, Romani people, Muslims, Macedonians, Slovenes and members of other nationalities.\n\nSeveral senior German military officials were tried and convicted for their involvement in the reprisal shootings at the Nuremberg trials and the subsequent Nuremberg trials. The massacre had a profound effect on the course of the war in Yugoslavia. It exacerbated tensions between the two guerrilla movements, the communist-led Partisans and the royalist, Serbian nationalist Chetniks, and convinced Chetnik leader Draža Mihailović that further attacks against the Germans would only result in more Serb civilian deaths. The Germans soon found mass executions of Serbs to be ineffectual and counterproductive, as they tended to drive the population into the arms of insurgents. The ratio of 100 executions for one soldier killed and 50 executions for one soldier wounded was reduced by half in February 1943, and removed altogether later in the year. The massacre is commemorated by the October in Kragujevac Memorial Park and the co-located 21st October Museum, and has been the subject of several poems and feature films. The day the massacre took place is commemorated annually in Serbia as the Day of Remembrance of the Serbian Victims of World War II.\n\nFollowing the 1938 \"Anschluss\" between Nazi Germany and Austria, Yugoslavia came to share its northwestern border with Germany and fell under increasing pressure as its neighbours aligned themselves with the Axis powers. In April 1939, Italy opened a second frontier with Yugoslavia when it invaded and occupied neighbouring Albania. At the outbreak of World War II, the Yugoslav government declared its neutrality. Between September and November 1940, Hungary and Romania joined the Tripartite Pact, aligning themselves with the Axis, and Italy invaded Greece. Yugoslavia was by then almost completely surrounded by the Axis powers and their satellites, and its neutral stance toward the war became strained. In late February 1941, Bulgaria joined the Pact. The following day, German troops entered Bulgaria from Romania, closing the ring around Yugoslavia. Intending to secure his southern flank for the impending attack on the Soviet Union, German dictator Adolf Hitler began placing heavy pressure on Yugoslavia to join the Axis. On 25 March 1941, after some delay, the Yugoslav government conditionally signed the Pact. Two days later, a group of pro-Western, Serbian nationalist Royal Yugoslav Air Force officers deposed the country's regent, Prince Paul, in a bloodless coup d'état. They placed his teenage nephew Peter on the throne and brought to power a \"government of national unity\" led by the head of the Royal Yugoslav Air Force, General Dušan Simović. The coup enraged Hitler, who immediately ordered the country's invasion, which commenced on 6 April 1941.\n\nYugoslavia was quickly overwhelmed by the combined strength of the Axis powers and surrendered in less than two weeks. The government and royal family went into exile, and the country was occupied and dismembered by its neighbours. The German-occupied territory of Serbia was limited to the pre-Balkan War borders of the Kingdom of Serbia and was directly occupied by the Germans for the key rail and riverine transport routes that passed through it, as well as its valuable resources, particularly non-ferrous metals. The occupied territory covered about and had a population of 3.8 million. Hitler had briefly considered erasing all existence of a Serbian state, but this was quickly abandoned and the Germans began searching for a Serb suitable to lead a puppet government in Belgrade. They initially settled on Milan Aćimović, a staunch anti-communist who served as Yugoslavia's Minister of Internal Affairs in late 1939 and early 1940.\n\nTwo resistance movements emerged following the invasion: the communist-led, multi-ethnic Partisans, and the royalist, Serbian nationalist Chetniks, although during 1941, within the occupied territory, even the Partisans consisted almost entirely of Serbs. The Partisans were led by the General Secretary of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, Josip Broz Tito; the Chetniks were led by Colonel Draža Mihailović, an officer in the interwar Royal Yugoslav Army. The two movements had widely divergent goals. Whereas the Partisans sought to turn Yugoslavia into a communist state under Tito's leadership, the Chetniks sought a return to the pre-war \"status quo\", whereby the Yugoslav monarchy—and, by extension, Serb political hegemony—would be restored. Communist resistance commenced in early July, shortly after the invasion of the Soviet Union, targeting both the Germans and the puppet authorities. By late August 1941, the Partisans and Chetniks were carrying out joint attacks against the Germans. The Partisans were well organised and many of their commanders had ample military experience, having fought in the Spanish Civil War. Within several months of the invasion, they had 8,000 fighters spread across 21 detachments in Serbia alone. Many Chetniks were either veterans of the Balkan Wars and World War I or former members of the Royal Yugoslav Army. They boasted around 20,000 fighters in the German-occupied territory of Serbia at the time of the massacre.\n\nOn 29 August, the Germans replaced Aćimović with another fervent anti-communist, the former Minister of the Army and Navy and Chief of the General Staff, General Milan Nedić, who formed a new puppet government. In September, the Nedić government was permitted to form the Serbian Volunteer Command (; SDK), an auxiliary paramilitary formation to help quell anti-German resistance. In effect, the SDK was the military arm of the fascist Yugoslav National Movement (, \"Zbor\"), led by Dimitrije Ljotić. It was originally intended to have a strength of 3,000–4,000 troops, but this number eventually rose to 12,000. It was headed by Kosta Mušicki, a former colonel in the Royal Yugoslav Army, whom Nedić appointed on 6 October 1941. In the early stages of the occupation, the SDK formed the bulk of Nedić's forces, which numbered around 20,000 men by late 1941.\n\nNedić's inability to crush the Partisans and Chetniks prompted the Military Commander in Serbia to request German reinforcements from other parts of the continent. In mid-September, they transferred the 125th Infantry Regiment from Greece and the 342nd Infantry Division from France to help put down the uprising in Serbia. On 16 September, Hitler issued Directive No. 312 to \"Generalfeldmarschall\" (Field Marshal) Wilhelm List, the \"Wehrmacht\" commander in Southeast Europe, ordering him to suppress all resistance in that part of the continent. That same day, the Supreme Command of the Armed Forces (\"Oberkommando der Wehrmacht\"; OKW) issued Hitler's order on the suppression of \"Communist Armed Resistance Movements in the Occupied Areas\", signed by \"Generalfeldmarschall\" Wilhelm Keitel. This decree specified that all attacks against the Germans on the Eastern Front were to be \"regarded as being of communist origin\", and that 100 hostages were to be shot for every German soldier killed and 50 were to be shot for every German soldier wounded. It was intended to apply to all of Eastern Europe, though an identical policy had already been implemented in Serbia as early as 28 April 1941, aimed at deterring guerrilla attacks. Attacks against the Germans increased in the first half of the year and Serbia once again became a warzone. German troops fanned through the countryside burning villages, taking hostages and establishing concentration camps. The first mass executions of hostages commenced in July.\n\nThe strengthening of Germany's military presence in Serbia resulted in a new wave of mass executions and war crimes. The commanders who bore the most responsibility for these atrocities were primarily of Austrian origin and had served in the Austro-Hungarian Army during World War I. Most were ardently anti-Serb, a prejudice that the historian Stevan K. Pavlowitch links to the Nazis' wider anti-Slavic racism.\n\nOn 19 September, \"General der Gebirgstruppe\" (Lieutenant General) Franz Böhme was appointed as Plenipotentiary Commanding General in Serbia, with direct responsibility for quelling the revolt, bringing with him the staff of XVIII Mountain Corps. He was allocated additional forces to assist him in doing so, reinforcing the three German occupation divisions already in the territory. These divisions were the 704th Infantry Division, 714th Infantry Division and 717th Infantry Division. Böhme boasted a profound hatred of Serbs and encouraged his predominantly Austrian-born troops to exact \"vengeance\" against them. His primary grievances were the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand and subsequent Austro-Hungarian military defeats at the hands of the Royal Serbian Army, which he thought could only be rectified by the reprisal shooting of Serbian civilians. \"Your objective,\" Böhme declared, \"is to be achieved in a land where, in 1914, streams of German blood flowed because of the treachery of the Serbs, men and women. You are the avengers of those dead.\"\n\nOn 28 September, the 6th Company of the German 920th \"Landesschützen\" (Local Defence) Battalion was captured by insurgents in the town of Gornji Milanovac. According to the journalist Misha Glenny, the Partisans launched an attack on a small German detachment based at a local school. They did not expect to capture the German garrison, but undertook the attack in order to generate new recruits from the surrounding area. The local Chetnik commander, Zvonimir Vučković, became aware of the Partisan plans and decided to join in the attack to avoid the significant loss of prestige that would result from allowing the Partisans to attack alone. The insurgents launched a morning attack against the school. Although they were successful in overrunning the sentry posts, the Germans' heavy machine guns soon stopped the assault. In 90 minutes of fighting, 10 Germans were killed and 26 wounded. The two insurgent groups judged that continuing the assault would be too costly and Vučković suggested negotiating with the Germans. To the insurgents' surprise, the Germans surrendered. They were then taken away by Vučković and his men.\n\nA German officer who escaped reported that the German prisoners were being humanely treated, but when Böhme became aware of the situation, he decided that retaliation was needed. He ordered III. Battalion of the 749th Infantry Regiment, part of the 717th Infantry Division, to burn down Gornji Milanovac and take hostages in order to expedite the recovery of the captured German troops. Due to a misunderstanding by the battalion commander, the unit did not burn down the town on 6 October, and released the 170 hostages it had arrested. Böhme was furious, and on 15 October, he sent the same battalion back to Gornji Milanovac to carry out his original orders. This was done on 16 October.\n\nOn 15–16 October, 10 German soldiers were killed and 14 wounded during a joint Partisan-Chetnik attack on Kraljevo, a city about south of Belgrade and southeast of Gornji Milanovac. On 15 October, troops of the 717th Infantry Division shot 300 civilians from Kraljevo in reprisal. These reprisal killings continued over the following days, and by 17 or 20 October, German troops had rounded up and shot 1,736 men and 19 \"communist\" women from the city and its outskirts, despite attempts by local collaborationists to mitigate the punishment. These executions were personally supervised by the commander of the 717th Infantry Division, \"Generalmajor\" (Brigadier General) Paul Hoffman.\n\nKragujevac is an industrial city in Central Serbia, about south of Belgrade, and east of Gornji Milanovac. It had a population of more than 40,000 in 1941, and was the headquarters of a German military district. The city was also home to Yugoslavia's largest armaments factory, which had between 7,000 and 8,000 workers before the invasion.\n\nA report was written by the military district commander in Kragujevac, \"Hauptmann\" (Captain) Otto von Bischofhausen, immediately after the massacre. This report was addressed to Böhme, and was later tendered in evidence at the Subsequent Nuremberg trials. According to von Bischofhausen, in the late evening of 18 October, all male Jews in Kragujevac, along with some communists, were arrested according to lists, totalling 70 persons. As this constituted far too few hostages to meet the quota of 2,300, it was proposed to collect the balance by arrests on the streets, squares and houses of Kragujevac, in an operation to be conducted by III./749th Infantry Regiment, and I. Battalion of the 724th Infantry Regiment, part of the 704th Infantry Division. In response to this proposal, von Bischofhausen claimed that he suggested to the garrison commander, Major Paul König, that, instead of using the population of Kragujevac, the required hostages be gathered from surrounding villages which were known to be \"completely strewn with communists\". According to von Bischofhausen's account, this suggestion was initially accepted by König, and, on 19 October, III./749th Infantry Regiment \"mopped up\" the villages of Mečkovac and Maršić, and I./724th Infantry Regiment conducted a similar operation in the villages of Grošnica and Milatovac. A total of 422 men were shot in these four villages, without any German losses.\n\nOn the evening of 19 October, von Bischofhausen again met with König and was told that the original proposal was to be implemented the following day in order to collect the 2,300 hostages. The following evening, the male Jews and communists, who had been held without food since their arrest, were shot by German troops at the barracks and courtyard where they were being held. Simultaneously, males between the ages of 16 and 60 were arrested within Kragujevac itself. They were detained in the barracks of a former motorised battalion at Stanovija Field. Over 7,000 hostages were assembled. German troops and ethnic German units from the Banat were involved in the round-up, as was the Fifth Regiment of the SDK, under the command of Marisav Petrović. According to von Bischofhausen, König permitted several classes of males to be excluded from the round-up, including those with a special pass issued by von Bischofhausen's district headquarters, members of a vital profession or trade, and those who were members of Ljotić's movement. When too few adult males could be located, high school students were also rounded up. Also seized were priests and monks from the city's churches. Each hostage was registered and his belongings noted meticulously.\n\nThe hostages were held overnight on a public plaza in the town. In his version of events, von Bischofhausen claimed that he made objections to König, but the latter insisted that his orders, which had been issued by the commander of the 749th Infantry Regiment, would be carried out. Shortly before the executions commenced, Ljotić obtained approval for two \"Zbor\" officials to scrutinise the hostages. Over 3,000 individuals, those identified as being \"genuine nationalists\" and \"real patriots\", were excluded from the execution lists as a result of Ljotić's intervention. Those who were not extracted from the hostage pool were accused of being communists or spreading \"communist propaganda\". The \"Zbor\" officials told them they were not \"worth saving\" because they had \"infected the younger generation with their leftist ideas.\" The Germans considered \"Zbor\"'s involvement to be a \"nuisance\". According to the social scientist Jovan Byford, it was never intended or likely to reduce the overall number of hostages killed in reprisal, and served only to ensure the exclusion of those that were deemed by \"Zbor\" to be worth saving.\n\nOn the morning of 21 October, the assembled men and boys were marched to a field outside the town. Over a period of seven hours, they were lined up in groups of 50 to 120 and shot with heavy machine guns. \"Go ahead and shoot\", said an elderly teacher, \"I am conducting my class\". He was shot together with his students. As they faced the firing squad, many hostages sang the patriotic song \"Hey, Slavs\", which became Yugoslavia's national anthem after the war. One German soldier was shot for refusing to participate in the killings. A German report stated: \"The executions in Kragujevac occurred although there had been no attacks on members of the Wehrmacht in this city, for the reason that not enough hostages could be found elsewhere.\" Even some German informants were inadvertently killed. \"Clearly\", the Holocaust historian Mark Levene writes, \"Germans in uniform were not \"that\" particular about who they shot in reprisal, especially in the Balkans, where the populace were deemed subhuman.\"\n\nFollowing the massacre, the Germans held a military parade through the city centre. On 31 October, Böhme sent a report to the acting Wehrmacht commander in Southeast Europe, \"General der Pioniere\" (Lieutenant General) Walter Kuntze, reporting that 2,300 hostages had been shot in Kragujevac.\n\nThe Partisan commander and later historian Milovan Djilas recalled how the Kragujevac massacre gripped all of Serbia in \"deadly terror\". Throughout the war, local collaborators pressured the Germans to implement stringent vetting procedures to ensure that \"innocent civilians\" were not executed, though only when the hostages were ethnic Serbs. By the time Böhme was relieved as Plenipotentiary Commanding General in December 1941, between 20,000 and 30,000 civilians had been killed in German reprisal shootings. The ratio of 100 executions for each soldier killed and 50 executions for each soldier wounded was reduced by half in February 1943, and removed altogether later in the year. Henceforth, each individual execution had to be approved by Special Envoy Hermann Neubacher. The massacres in Kragujevac and Kraljevo caused German military commanders in Serbia to question the efficacy of such killings, as they pushed thousands of Serbs into the hands of anti-German guerrillas. In Kraljevo, the entire Serbian workforce of an airplane factory producing armaments for the Germans was shot. This helped convince the OKW that arbitrary shootings of Serbs not only incurred a significant political cost but were also counterproductive.\n\nThe killings at Kragujevac and Kraljevo exacerbated tensions between the Partisans and Chetniks. They also convinced Mihailović that active resistance was futile for as long as the Germans held an unassailable military advantage in the Balkans, and that killing German troops would only result in the unnecessary deaths of tens of thousands of Serbs. He therefore decided to scale back Chetnik guerrilla attacks and wait for an Allied landing in the Balkans. The killings occurred only a few days before Captain Bill Hudson, a Special Operations Executive officer, met with Mihailović at his Ravna Gora headquarters. Hudson witnessed the aftermath of the massacre and noted the psychological toll it exacted. \"Morning and night was the most desolating atmosphere,\" he recounted, \"because the women were out in the fields, and every sunrise and sunset you would hear the wails. This had a very strong effect on Mihailović.\" \"The tragedy gave to Nedić convincing proof that the Serbs would be biologically exterminated if they were not submissive,\" Djilas wrote, \"and to the Chetniks proof that the Partisans were prematurely provoking the Germans\". Mihailović's decision to refrain from attacking the Germans led to a rift with Tito and the Partisans. The Chetniks' non-resistance made it easier for the Germans to confront the Partisans, who for much of the remainder of the war could not defeat them in open combat.\n\nList and Böhme were both captured at the end of the war. On 10 May 1947, they were charged with war crimes and crimes against humanity as part of the Hostages Trial of the subsequent Nuremberg trials. One of the crimes specifically listed in Count 1 of the indictment was the massacre of 2,300 hostages in Kragujevac. Böhme committed suicide before his arraignment. List was found guilty on Count 1, as well as on another count. He was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1948, but was released due to ill health in 1953. Despite this, he lived until June 1971. Keitel was found guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity at the Nuremberg Trials, and subsequently hanged. Hoffmann, whom the local population dubbed the \"butcher of Kraljevo and Kragujevac\", was promoted to command the more capable 352nd Infantry Division in November 1941. He ended the war as the commander of a prisoner-of-war camp, having been demoted for refusing to shoot deserters in the Ukraine. The 717th Infantry Division was reorganised as the 117th Jäger Division later in the war and its troops took part in the massacre of hundreds of Greek civilians at Kalavryta in December 1943.\n\nAt least 31 mass graves were discovered in Kragujevac and its surroundings after the war. In 1969, the historian Jozo Tomasevich wrote that, despite German official sources stating 2,300 hostages had been shot, both the Partisans and Chetniks had agreed that the number of victims was about 7,000. He further stated that careful investigation by a Yugoslav university professor in 1967 had put the figure at about 5,000. In 1975, Tomasevich noted that some estimates of the number of those killed were as high as 7,000, but that the foremost authority on German terror in Serbia, Venceslav Glišić, placed the figure at about 3,000. In 2007, Pavlowitch wrote that inflated figures of 6,000–7,000 victims were advanced and widely believed for many years, but that German and Serbian scholars had recently agreed on the figure of 2,778. In the same year, the curator of the 21st October Museum at Kragujevac, Staniša Brkić, published a book listing the names and personal data of 2,794 victims. Of the total killed, 144 were high school students, and five of the victims were 12 years old. The last living survivor of the massacre, Dragoljub Jovanović, died in October 2018 at the age of 94. He survived despite sustaining 11 bullet wounds and had to have one of his legs amputated. After the war, he was appointed the inaugural director of the 21st October Museum.\n\nThe massacre at Kragujevac came to symbolize the brutality of the German occupation in Yugoslav popular memory. It has drawn comparisons to the Germans' destruction of the Czechoslovak village of Lidice in June 1942 and the massacre of the inhabitants of Oradour-sur-Glane, in France, in June 1944. To commemorate the victims of the Kragujevac massacre, the whole of Šumarice, where the killings took place, was designated a memorial park in 1953. It is now known as the October in Kragujevac Memorial Park, and covers encompassing the area that contains the mass graves. The 21st October Museum was founded within the park on 15 February 1976. There are also several monuments within the park, including the \"Interrupted Flight\" monument to the murdered high school students and their teachers, and the monuments \"Pain and Defiance\", \"One Hundred for One\", and \"Resistance and Freedom\". The Memorial Park website notes that the victims of the massacre included Serbs, Jews, Romani people, Muslims, Macedonians, Slovenes and members of other nationalities. The memorial was damaged during the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999.\n\nThe Serbian poet and writer Desanka Maksimović wrote a poem about the massacre titled \"Krvava bajka\" (\"A Bloody Fairy Tale\"). The poem was later included in the Yugoslav secondary school curriculum and schoolchildren were required to memorise it. It ranks among the most famous Serbian-language poems. In 1965, the Belgian poet Karel Jonckheere wrote the poem \"Kinderen met krekelstem\" (\"Children with Cricket Voices\"), also about the massacre. \"The Blue Butterfly\", a book of poetry by Richard Berengarten, is based on the poet's experiences while visiting Kragujevac in 1985, when a blue butterfly landed on his hand at the entrance to the memorial museum.\n\nThe massacre has been the subject of two feature films: \"Prozvan je i \" (\" is Called Out\"; 1962) and \"Krvava bajka\" (\"A Bloody Fairy Tale\"; 1969), named after the eponymous poem. In 2012, the National Assembly of Serbia passed a law declaring 21 October a public holiday, the Day of Remembrance of the Serbian Victims of World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42748567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42748567", "title": "LGBT rights in the United States Virgin Islands", "text": "LGBT rights in the United States Virgin Islands\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in the U.S. Virgin Islands face legal challenges and discrimination not faced by other people. Same-sex sexual activity is no longer criminalized, and neither is same-sex marriage. The Virgin Islands lacks a hate crimes statute and provides LGBT residents no protection against discrimination. Following the Supreme Court's ruling in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" on June 26, 2015, which found the denial of marriage rights to same-sex couples unconstitutional, same-sex marriage became legal in the islands.\n\nThe first anti-gay criminal law was imposed by Denmark, who had purchased the islands, in 1917. In 1957 the law was expanded to prohibit oral sex. \n\nIn 1978, the law was challenged in court as being too vague, but the court rejected this argument.\n\nIn 1984, the legislature revised its sex crimes statues to allow consenting adults to have a private life. This revision formally took effect a year later.\n\nSame-sex sexual activity has been legal in the U.S. Virgin Islands since 1985, as long as it occurs between consenting adults in private. Initially, the age of consent was set at 16, but this was raised to 18 in 2017.\n\nThe statutes of the Virgin Islands state that \"Marriage is hereby declared to be a civil contract which may be entered into between a male and a female in accordance with the law.\" However, on June 30, 2015, Governor Kenneth Mapp announced that the territorial government would comply with the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\", recognizing marriage as a fundamental right that cannot be denied to same-sex couples.\n\nIn May 2014, Senator Judi Buckley introduced draft legislation in the legislature to establish same-sex marriage. Called the Civil Marriage Equality Act, it would replace the Code's \"between a male and a female\" with \"between two persons\". It included language that would allow anyone authorized to perform a wedding ceremony to decline to do so for any reason. She anticipated that it would take several months for its language to be reviewed. She expected that she and Governor John de Jongh, who she said would sign the legislation, would leave office in January 2015 before the legislation came to a vote. Supporters of the legislation include Liberty Place, an LGBT advocacy organization based on St. Croix.\n\nIn response, a group of church leaders organized One Voice Virgin Islands to oppose the legislation and plan a petition drive that aimed to collect 50,000 signatures. The group authored a letter to V.I. officials that some of its members found objectionable because it included the suggestion that some government officials were homosexual. The group's president, New Vision Ministries Pastor James Petty of St. Thomas, said: \"We do not wish to be America's same-sex paradise\". Pastor Lennox Zamore said that he rejected the argument that legalizing same-sex marriage would benefit the local economy: \"We don't want to balance our books by bringing the sex industry – whether it is same sex or not – to the Virgin Islands\",\n\n"}
{"id": "6208728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6208728", "title": "Liberism", "text": "Liberism\n\nLiberism (derived from the Italian term \"liberismo\") is a term for the economic doctrine of \"laissez-faire\" capitalism first used by the philosopher Benedetto Croce and popularized in English by the Italian-American political scientist Giovanni Sartori.\n\nSartori imported the term from Italian in order to distinguish between social liberalism, which is generally considered a political ideology often advocating extensive government intervention in the economy; and those liberal theories of economics which propose to virtually eliminate such intervention. In informal usage, liberism overlaps with other concepts such as free trade, neoliberalism, right-libertarianism, the American concept of libertarianism and the French notion of \"laissez-faire\".\n\nIn Italy, liberism is often identified with the political theories of Gaetano Mosca, Luigi Einaudi and Bruno Leoni. Internationally, liberism has been advocated by the Austrian School of economic theory, for instance by Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich von Hayek.\n\n"}
{"id": "22160631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22160631", "title": "Liberty or death", "text": "Liberty or death\n\nLiberty or death, alternatively independence or death, is a slogan made famous during the independence struggle of several countries, notably the United States of America, Brazil, Bulgaria, Greece, Romania, Serbia, Turkey, Ireland, and Uruguay. \n\nLiberty or death may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39375873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39375873", "title": "List of allegations of misuse of the Internal Revenue Service", "text": "List of allegations of misuse of the Internal Revenue Service\n\nThis is a partial list of allegations of misuse of the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS), which traces its roots to the creation of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in 1862. Examples of political profiling controversies include cases in which IRS employees or government officials have allegedly used IRS resources to target individuals and groups for espousing or expressing particular political beliefs.\n\nUse of the IRS for political targeting has been alleged as far back as the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration.\n\nThe most famous Kennedy administration project allegedly deploying tax-related targeting was called the \"Ideological Organizations Project\". This was a project which allegedly investigated, intimidated, and challenged the tax-exempt status of right-wing foundations.\n\nMany instances of alleged political profiling were coordinated with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), sometimes under COINTELPRO. The IRS provided the FBI with free access to tax returns, which the FBI used to investigate groups as ideologically varied as the John Birch Society, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and the American Communist Party.\n\nBeginning in the 1950s and continuing into the 1960s, the IRS audited civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. numerous times. In addition to King himself, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and several of King's lawyers were subjected to audits.\n\nIn 1974, a Bill of Impeachment against President Richard Nixon was approved by the House Judiciary Committee that included charges that his administration attempted to use the IRS in a discriminatory manner:\n\nConservative groups including the Heritage Foundation, the National Rifle Association, and Judicial Watch alleged that the Clinton administration subjected them to politically motivated audits.\n\nThe NAACP was audited in 2004 after its chairman criticized then-President George W. Bush for failing to address the group, becoming the first president to do so since Herbert Hoover. The IRS informed the NAACP that the audit was prompted by then-NAACP-chairman Julian Bond's speech, which \"condemned the administration policies of George W. Bush on education, the economy and the war in Iraq.\" Although the IRS maintained that the audit was an attempt to determine whether the NAACP had involved itself in a political campaign, the NAACP and Democratic Party representatives characterized the audit as an attempt to stifle criticism of Bush, intimidate NAACP members, and harm the NAACP's get-out-the-vote campaign.\n\nAccording to the \"Huffington Post\" in 2004, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that the IRS audited the liberal group Greenpeace at the request of Public Interest Watch, a group funded by Exxon-Mobil.\n\nAccording to the \"Tampa Bay Times\" \"PolitiFact\" the allegation that the IRS during the Bush Administration targeted liberal groups is \"Mostly False\".\n\nIn May 2013, the IRS admitted it had subjected conservative political groups to closer scrutiny in their applications for tax-exempt status based on particular keywords in their names. The agency has maintained that low-level employees took it upon themselves to do this. However, Republicans argue that the refusal of Lois Lerner (at the time was Director of the IRS's Exempt Organizations Unit) to testify before Congress, twice citing her Constitutional right against self-incrimination, suggests involvement by higher-level employees. An internal report by the agency's Inspector General cited \"ineffective management\" as the cause and indicated that the IRS \"will need to do more so that the public has reasonable assurance that applications are processed without unreasonable delay in a fair and impartial manner in the future.\" Congress continues to investigate the possibility that Lerner or other high-level officials were involved in improper political targeting. Republican lawmakers say the IRS has improperly withheld and destroyed evidence, while Democrats argue that Republicans are attempting to keep the controversy alive for political purposes.\n"}
{"id": "5744349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5744349", "title": "List of countries by employment rate", "text": "List of countries by employment rate\n\nThis is a list of countries by employment rate, this being the proportion of employed adults in the working age. The definition of \"working age\" varies: Many sources, including the OECD, use 15–64 years old, but the Office for National Statistics of the United Kingdom uses 16–64 years old and EUROSTAT uses 20–64 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "38068398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38068398", "title": "List of things named after Muhammad Ali Jinnah", "text": "List of things named after Muhammad Ali Jinnah\n\nThere are a number of landmarks, buildings, roads and parks named after the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah (also known as Quaid-e-Azam), as well as other items. This is a list of all such notable items.\n\n\n\n\n\nJinnah Bagh , larkana\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17542", "title": "Logrolling", "text": "Logrolling\n\nLogrolling is the trading of favors, or \"quid pro quo\", such as vote trading by legislative members to obtain passage of actions of interest to each legislative member. In an academic context, the \"Nuttall Encyclopedia\" describes logrolling as \"mutual praise by authors of each other's work\". In organizational analysis, it refers to a practice in which different organizations promote each other's agendas, each in the expectation that the other will reciprocate.\n\nThere are three types of logrolling:\n\nDistributive logrolling is the most prevalent kind of logrolling found in a democratic system of governance.\n\n\"Quid pro quo\" sums up the concept of logrolling in the United States’ political process today. Logrolling is the process by which politicians trade support for one issue or piece of legislation in exchange for another politician's support, especially by means of legislative votes (Holcombe 2006). If a legislator logrolls, he initiates the trade of votes for one particular act or bill in order to secure votes on behalf of another act or bill. Logrolling means that two parties will pledge their mutual support, so both bills can attain a simple majority. For example, a vote on behalf of a tariff may be traded by a congressman for a vote from another congressman on behalf of an agricultural subsidy to ensure that both acts will gain a majority and pass through the legislature (Shughart 2008). Logrolling cannot occur during presidential elections, where a vast voting population necessitates that individual votes have little political power, or during secret-ballot votes (Buchanan and Tullock 1962). Because logrolling is pervasive in the political process, it is important to understand which external situations determine when, why, and how logrolling will occur, and whether it is beneficial, efficient, or neither.\n\nAmerican frontiersman Davy Crockett was one of the first to apply the term to legislation:\nThe first known use of the term was by Congressman Davy Crockett, who said on the floor (of the U.S. House of Representatives) in 1835, \"my people don't like me to log-roll in their business, and vote away pre-emption rights to fellows in other states that never kindle a fire on their own land.\"\n\nThe widest accepted origin is the old custom of neighbors assisting each other with the moving of logs. If two neighbors had cut a lot of timber which needed to be moved, it made more sense for them to work together to roll the logs. In this way, it is similar to a barn-raising where a neighbor comes and helps a family build their barn, and, in turn, that family goes and returns the favor, helping him build his.\n\nHere is an example of the term's original use:\n\"A family comes to sit in the forest,\" wrote an observer in 1835. \"Their neighbors lay down their employments, shoulder their axes, and come in to the log-rolling. They spend the day in hard labor, and then retire, leaving the newcomers their good wishes, and a habitation.\n\nHuman beings, whether ignorant or informed, rational or irrational, logical or illogical, determine individual and group action through choices. Economics studies these choices, including the choice to logroll, and their particular influence within the market sector (Schwartz 1977). In America, political and economic decisions are usually made by politicians elected to legislative assemblies, and not directly by the citizenry (Buchanan and Tullock 1962). Although legislative votes are recorded and are available to the American public, legislators can exchange their votes on issues they do not care much about for votes on other issues that are more important to their personal agendas (Holcombe 2006). In \"The Calculus of Consent\", James M. Buchanan and Gordon Tullock explore the relationship between individual choice in the voting process and in the marketplace, specifically within logrolling. Logrolling vote trades, like any activity within the marketplace, must be mutually beneficial (Buchanan and Tullock 1962).\n\nA vote trade is like a legislative IOU. When a legislator needs a few more votes to acquire a simple majority, he will seek support through a vote exchange. He will promise a fellow legislator an IOU vote for another piece of legislation in return for a vote on his own act or bill. Legislators who logroll within a small body, for example, the U.S. House or Senate, have incentive to honor their IOU votes because they cannot have their reputations tainted if they wish to be effective politicians (Holcombe 2006).\n\nPeople have varying preferences, and make decisions at the margin to maximize their utility and improve their welfare. The same is true for legislators, who all enter office with different agendas, passions, and goals. Ideological diversity plays a significant role in the result of a vote and carries with it a significant cost. In addition, legislators will favor interests that offer them the most support. Legislative votes are determined by the intensity of personal preference, desires of constituents, and, ultimately, what will lead to the particular legislator's greatest utility. When people have ideologies at opposite ends of the political spectrum, it's difficult to ensure a simple majority, so buying a supermajority vote through logrolling may be the most cost effective (Buchanan and Tullock 1962).\n\nIn the General Possibility Theorem, Kenneth Arrow argues that if a legislative consensus can be reached through a simple majority, then minimum conditions must be satisfied, and these conditions must provide a superior ranking to any subset of alternative votes (Arrow 1963). A bill must be attractive to a legislator, or else he will not cast his vote for it. A vote, by the pure nature of the voting process, demonstrates explicit interest in whatever is voted upon. In logrolling, a superior ranking means that the marginal benefit of the vote is greater than any alternatives, so exchanging votes is worthwhile. The General Possibility Theorem necessitates that allocating one vote for another must constitute true utility and a sincere vote. Arrow's theory may place more restrictions and limitations on an individual voter's preferences than Buchanan and Tullock's; regardless, individuals will always choose the option they value most.\n\nDecisions reach an optimum only when they are unanimous, when votes are not coerced and everyone has veto power (Buchanan and Tullock 1962). Unanimous votes, however, are not required for the American voting process. This is why some logrolling advocates argue that logrolling must be allowed within a democracy—sometimes there may not be a \"best\" or \"most efficient\" option on a vote.\n\nLogrolling creates a market within which votes are exchanged as a sort of currency, and thus, facilitates the political process that produces the highest valued outcomes (Holcombe 2006). If individual participants recognize the value of their own vote, they are motivated to trade. When methods of trade do not conflict with given standards or ethical procedures, individuals naturally seek mutually advantageous vote trades. An individual may effectually, but imperfectly, \"sell\" his vote on a particular issue to, in return, secure votes from other individuals on behalf of legislation he prefers (Buchanan and Tullock 1962).\n\nLogrolling has one necessary condition: benefits from the public activity must be significantly more concentrated or localized than the costs. In economics, decisions are made at the margin. Logrolling depends on the reality that the marginal benefit (or utility) of at least some elected officials, or the citizenry, will increase when the legislation is passed (Buchanan and Tullock 1962). Any economist will consider the immediate opportunity cost of the logrolling procedure within the legislative body, as well as the external cost of the vote (the cost to enact and see the bill through to fruition).\n\nWhen transaction costs are low and parties involved are perfectly informed, a mutually beneficial agreement will occur: whoever values the property the highest will end up with it. This is what Ronald H. Coase proposed in his \"Theory of Property Rights\" in 1960. This theory holds true within the world of economics. In the American system of government, legislators have the incentive to logroll because transaction costs are low. When transaction costs are low, the Coase theorem says that the political marketplace (the decisions of the legislatures) will allocate resources to the highest valued point (Coase 1960).\n\nTypically, logrolling is a mechanism used to gain support for special interest and minority groups. However, because of the ideological mix that already exists within the legislature itself, minority views are often represented, even if only marginally. With low transaction costs, the Coase theorem will come into play. The highest valued outcome is chosen by the legislature, regardless the member's ideological stance or political affiliation (Holcombe 2006).\n\nThe problem of cyclical majorities may arise with the absence of logrolling. The cyclical majority problem occurs when voters are faced with multiple voting options but cannot choose the option they most prefer, since it is not available. Voters must consider whether the alternative option is closer to their original preference (Bara and Weale 2006). However, when logrolling is allowed, the highest valued outcome is secure without the threat of a cyclical majority. For example, suppose a country road in West Virginia is in disrepair. The local congressman proposes a bill to have the main road in his community resurfaced and paved. The road leads to a town of merely 600 residents. Thus, the other legislators will vote against the measure because the funding is not worthwhile to their constituents. In a logrolling system, the local legislator can use his vote to bargain with his fellow legislators. He will exchange his vote for his fellow legislators’ bills to promote, for instance, the construction of new hospitals and the increase of veteran's benefits, in return for their votes to repair the road (Buchanan and Tullock 1962).\n\nTable 1-1 explains another example of logrolling. In the example, we have three individuals: Tanya, Alvin, and Rebecca. Tanya favors subsidies for agriculture, Alvin favors school construction, and Rebecca favors the recruitment of more firefighters. It seems as if the proposals are doomed to fail because each is opposed by a majority of voters. Even so, this may not be the outcome. Tanya may visit Rebecca and tell her that she will vote for Rebecca's bill to recruit more firefighters so long as Rebecca votes for her policy, subsidies for agriculture, in return. Now both proposals will win because they have gained a simple majority (Table 1-2), even though in reality the subsidy is opposed by two of the three voters. It's easy to see the Coase theorem at work in examples like this. Here, transaction costs are low, so mutually beneficial agreements are found, and the person who values the service the most will hold it (Browning and Browning 1979). Still, outcomes may be inefficient.\n\nIf the sum of the total benefit of the legislation for all the voters is less than the cost of the legislation itself, the legislation is inefficient. Despite its inefficiency, however, it still may pass if logrolling is permitted. If Tanya trades her vote to recruit more firemen to Rebecca in exchange for Rebecca's vote in favor of agriculture subsidies, a mutually beneficial agreement will be reached, even though the outcome is inefficient. On the other hand, if the sum of the total benefit of the legislation for all voters is greater than the cost of the legislation itself, the legislation is efficient. If Tanya trades her vote once again for Rebecca's vote, both parties will reach a mutually beneficial agreement and an efficient outcome.\n\nA minimum winning coalition is the smallest number of votes required to win the passage of a piece of legislation. Minimum winning coalitions demonstrate the importance of logrolling within a democracy, because the minimal winning coalition may be overthrown with the sway of a single vote. As previously mentioned, coalitions will buy a supermajority of votes if the support for the proposed legislation sways. If a legislator logrolls a few votes beyond the minimal winning coalition to his side, he will ensure that the final vote will be in favor of his legislation. In a way, vote trading does combine positions on distinct issues to form single legislative votes and packages (Stratmann 1992). Logrolled votes transcend affiliations and party lines and become feasible outcomes preferred by a majority or winning coalition (Schwartz 1977).\n\nA problem in research is that it is impossible to identify vote trading directly within the House of Representatives or the Senate because roll call votes on specific goods are not observed (Irwin and Kroszner 1996). However, examples of refurbished bills can shed some light on the working-out of logrolling within the legislature. For example, in 1930, the Smoot-Hawley tariff, the second-highest tariff in U.S. history, passed the House and Senate. Congress voted to increase tariffs exponentially, which worked to push the United States from a stagnant recession into a plummeting depression (Irwin and Kroszner 1996). Strict party line votes suggest that partisan polarization in 1929 prevented the Smoot-Hawley bill from passing through Congress. The bill, however, was revamped, and legislators used logrolling to pass it through both chambers in 1930.\n\nOmnibus bills can be an alternative market to logrolling. Various clauses are added to a bill to satisfy all involved parties sufficiently. However, large bills, like the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, require an in depth knowledge of 1,000 plus pages. Many sections of these types of bills are initially opposed but are later supported because of special benefit clauses (Evans 1994).\n\nBecause logrolling allows special-interest groups a voice in the political process, programs that benefit a minority group can get the approval of a majority. However, this may not be in the best interest of the majority. Special-interest groups typically do not represent the typical voter, but rather, small branches of minority ideologies (Holcombe 2006). Voting results with or without logrolling will differ only if the minority is more interested in an issue than the majority, enough to separate the marginal voters from the majority. Studies show that lobbying and political pressure exerted by special-interest groups are not atypical behavior in a modern democracy (Buchanan and Tullock 1962). Conditions imposed upon the social choice of the legislature imply a more severe restriction on the individual voter's preferences than the theory of logrolling presented by Buchanan and Tullock and presumed by Arrow's General Possibility Theory (Wilson 1969).\n\nCritics reproach members of Congress for protecting their own electoral interests at the expense of the general welfare. Congressmen tend to distribute specialized benefits at a great cost and ignore the particular costs the legislation bears upon the taxpayers (Evans 1994). Legislators, who seek their personal benefit via logrolling even though it may not benefit those who must pay for the measure, are known as maximizers. Maximizers only take into account their personal cost and electability, instead of the effects of their actions on other parties involved. In short, other taxpayers will pay for the policy even if it does not affect them (Buchanan and Tullock 1962). Initially, maximizers will encourage other legislators to have the same selfish behavior because significant gains can be accrued in the short run. Buchanan and Tullock state that within a system of maximizers, all individuals are worse off than if they had all adopted Kantian norms of behavior.\n\nLegislative bodies can expect higher government spending and taxation when logrolling is allowed to flourish. Logrolling does not imply excessive spending; members can trade tax reductions just as easily as they can trade pork barrel policies. The problem is that benefits of a vote only reach a particular portion of the population, while the tax costs that pay for the vote are spread throughout the entire populace, especially when the act depends on revenue from sales or income taxes. Benefits are concentrated in localities, and the costs are dispersed throughout the nation. Committee members can thus exploit pork barrel projects for electoral purposes. The citizenry is seen as a “common pool,” used to finance projects through taxes. Somehow the citizens end up paying higher taxes than those who are not in a logroll system (Dalenberg and Duffy-Deno 1991 and Gilligan and Matsusaka 1995). In a system where logrolling is permitted, a third party may bear the cost of the project, rather than those who receive the full benefit of the legislation. This is always inefficient.\n\nThe logic of collective action shows that votes for bills are motivated by politicians and are determined by a simple majority (Olson 1971). Politicians are in the game to win it. Collective effort explains why farms acquire government subsidies at the expense of millions of consumers and why those in the textile industry benefit at the expense of clothing buyers (Shughart 2008). Congressional committees ensure that each committee leader will create legislative coalitions to push his policies to fruition. Thus, ceteris paribus, members who receive such projects, are likely to vote in support of their leader's wishes (Evans 1994).\n\nPolicymakers and congressmen have goals of power, and making their own mark in public policy, not pure aims of reelection (Dodd 1977). Reelection does play a great part in the legislative process as a condition to achieving any other political goal. Thus, logrolling can be a powerful tool for committee chairs, who control the voting agendas (Evans 1994). While committee leaders create the supermajority, they try to achieve their personal goals and help a bare majority of members achieve theirs. Indeed, a skilled policy-oriented committee leader often seeks to exploit the goals of other members in order to construct legislation he or she will prefer (Arnold 1979 and Strahan 1989).\n\n\"Wafelijzerpolitiek\" (lit. waffle iron politics) is a form of logrolling used in Belgium. Until the split of the unitary Belgium in several parts, the unitary government decided on the funds given to big projects. As there were usually two opposing groups of about equal size in Belgium, this norm resulted in the approval of two equally sized projects in the two parts of the country, with the funds given to the two projects being equal. As a result, one project was always overfunded. Many see \"wafelijzerpolitiek\" as the source of Belgium's high debt.\n\nAfter the first state reformation in 1988, many big projects were decided regionally, so the number of \"wafelijzer\" projects went down. There are still some things that fall under the supervision of the federal government, where \"wafelijzerpolitiek\" still happens. One example is the Belgian railway network.\n\nAnother result of the \"wafelijzerpolitiek\" is the big useless works. As Flanders is a part of Belgium with many ports (e.g., big ports in Antwerp and Zeebrugge), for every investment in Flemish waterways there had to be an investment in Walloon waterways. Some results are the Ronquières inclined plane and the Strépy-Thieu boat lift.\n\nIn a referendum on a simple issue, the voter cannot easily trade his own vote for a vote on a reciprocal favor. This is because first, he is unsure as to when and how the other issues will be voted upon, and second, he and his immediate neighbors represent a fraction of the total electorate. Thus, trading may not be worthwhile (Buchanan and Tullock 1962).\n\nVote trading under a democratic, majority-rule institution is sometimes considered morally reprehensible behavior. However, the only perfect solution to rid the political system of distributive logrolling would be to develop a specific formula to weigh the costs and benefits of legislation perfectly and only allow efficient programs to be enacted (This is inconceivable. Therefore, logrolling must occur, but only by observing the constitutional rules that have been laid down as safeguards of democracy (Buchanan and Tullock 1962).\n\nThe reality is that transaction costs are high, and most voters, who are ignorant of political issues and the political process, see little incentive to attempt to influence their local legislator's political decisions (Holcombe 2006). It is also difficult for voters to be informed of their legislator's voting habits. Because of this, distributive logrolling will occur in democratic systems. Furthermore, it is the responsibility of the legislator to measure the costs and benefits of legislation and determine what is most efficient for his constituents. Logrolling will occur only if members of the legislature fail to gather enough votes for the passage of specific legislation. In essence, logrolling is a legal way to manipulate voter preference toward either an efficient or an inefficient outcome that would not otherwise be enacted (Browning 1979).\n\n\"Spy Magazine\" ran a feature entitled \"Logrolling in Our Time\" that cited suspicious or humorous examples of mutually admiring book jacket blurbs by pairs of authors. \"Private Eye\" magazine regularly draws attention to alleged logrolling by authors in \"books of the year\" features published by British newspapers and magazines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2350495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2350495", "title": "National conservatism", "text": "National conservatism\n\nNational conservatism is a variant of conservatism that concentrates more on national interests and upholding cultural or ethnic identity than most other conservatives. In Europe, national conservatives are usually Eurosceptics. National conservatism shares characteristics with traditionalist conservatism and social conservatism given how the 3 variations focus on preservation and tradition. As national conservatism seeks to preserve national interests, traditional conservatism emphasizes ancestral institutions and social conservatism. National-conservative parties often have roots in environments with a rural, traditionalist or peripheral basis, contrasting with the more urban support base of liberal-conservative parties.\n\nMost conservative parties in post-communist Central and Southeastern Europe since 1989 have been national conservative.\n\nNational conservative parties are \"socially traditional\" and support the traditional family and social stability. According to the Austrian political scientist Sieglinde Rosenberger, \"national conservatism praises the family as a home and a center of identity, solidarity and emotion.\" Many national conservatives are thus social conservatives, as well as in favor of limiting immigration and enacting law-and-order policies.\n\nNational conservative parties in different countries do not necessarily share a common position on economic policy: their views may range from support of a planned economy to a centrist mixed economy to a \"laissez-faire\" approach. In the first, more common, case, national conservatives can be distinguished from liberal conservatives, for whom free market economic policies, deregulation and tight spending are the main priorities. Some commentators have indeed identified a growing gap between national and economic liberal conservatism: \"most parties of the Right [today] are run by economically liberal conservatives who, in varying degrees, have marginalized social, cultural, and national conservatives.\"\n\nThe following political parties have been characterised as national conservative, at least as one of their ideological influences.\n\n"}
{"id": "3004703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3004703", "title": "Natural Cures \"They\" Don't Want You to Know About", "text": "Natural Cures \"They\" Don't Want You to Know About\n\nNatural Cures \"They\" Don't Want You To Know About is a 2005 self-published book by American author Kevin Trudeau, promoting a variety of non-drug and non-surgical purported cures for many diseases, primarily in support of his business selling such products. Trudeau accuses pharmaceutical companies and the United States government of censoring these products and methods on the basis that it would cut into their profit-margin. The book is the subject of widespread allegations of fraud.\n\nIn the book, Trudeau claims that there are all-natural cures for serious illnesses including cancer, herpes, arthritis, AIDS, acid reflux disease, various phobias, depression, obesity, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, lupus, chronic fatigue syndrome, attention deficit disorder, muscular dystrophy, and that these are being deliberately hidden and suppressed from the public by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Federal Trade Commission, and the major food and drug companies, in an effort to protect the profits of these industries and the authority of the governmental agencies. Trudeau claims that the source of illness are toxins from processed food, nutritional deficiencies, and other environmental sources; and that eliminating these factors will facilitate a cure for most diseases. Trudeau claims that his lack of medical training or expertise is what makes him most qualified to investigate alternative medicine, and reports his opinions in his self-published book. The first edition of the book lacked any mention of specific, brand-name products for any illnesses within its pages, as Trudeau claims the FDA and FTC censored this information and prohibited him from publishing it in the book. Instead, the book contained references to Trudeau's subscription-based website where the actual 'cures' were supposedly posted and accessible for a monthly fee.\n\nIn May 2006, Trudeau self-published \"More Natural \"Cures\" Revealed: Previously Censored Brand Name Products That Cure Disease\". This book responded to complaints that its earlier version did not actually contain any cures but pointed consumers to his subscription website. In \"More Natural \"Cures\" Revealed\", Trudeau says that workers at the FDA and FTC want to censor him and, figuratively, burn his books.\n\nThe original book contained 271 pages. After he released \"More Natural \"Cures\" Revealed: Previously Censored Brand Name Products That Cure Disease\" in response to earlier criticism, an \"Updated Edition\" of the original \"Natural Cures\" was sold shortly thereafter, containing 563 pages. This adds a new Introduction, a Frequently Asked Questions chapter and a chapter on website information. It also adds three appendices, containing newsletter articles, \"No-Hunger Bread: A True FDA Horror Story,\" and locations of several health care practitioners. The FDA article, originally a short letter and summary of the case in the original book, is included in its entirety in the updated edition. One omission in the updated edition is a Glossary section containing several New Age techniques.\n\nAccording to Trudeau, the chapter \"The Cures For All Diseases\" was completely censored by the FTC in the original book. The chapter is included titled as \"Natural Cures for Specific Diseases\" in the updated edition.\n\nHis website contains a number of references and articles, notably \"FDA Horror Stories\" such as \"No-Hunger Bread,\" which describe alleged instances of the FDA suppressing natural cures. Another article addresses 714X, a disproven cancer treatment developed in Canada.\n\nThe book has been the focus of much controversy since its publication, with widespread allegations of fraud. The New York State Consumer Protection Board issued a warning in 2005 that the book \"does not contain the 'natural cures' for cancer and other diseases that Trudeau is promising.\" It asserted that \"Trudeau is not only misrepresenting the contents of his self-published book, he is also using false endorsements to encourage consumers to buy \"Natural Cures \"They\" Don’t Want You to Know About.\"\" The Board also alleged that Trudeau was selling the consumer's contact information to other marketers without their consent and hitting purchasers with unauthorized charges.\n\nSkeptical author Michael Shermer writes: As for the \"natural cures\" themselves, some are not cures at all but just obvious healthy lifestyle suggestions: eat less, exercise more, reduce stress. Some of the natural cures are flat-out wrong, such as oral chelation for heart disease, whereas others are laughably ludicrous, such as a magnetic mattress pad and crocodile protein peptide for fibromyalgia. Worst of all are the natural cures that the book directs the reader to Trudeau's Web page to find. When you go there, however, and click on a disease to get the cure, you first have to become a Web site member at $1000 lifetime or $9.95 a month. It is a classic con man's combo: bait and switch (the book directs them to the Web page) and double-dipping (sell them the book, then sell them the membership). \n\nShermer and other critics have argued that Trudeau has used \"Natural Cures\" to circumvent a Federal Trade Commission ruling that Trudeau is barred \"from appearing in, producing, or disseminating future infomercials that advertise any type of product, service, or program to the public.\" The FTC issued its decision after it found that Trudeau had defrauded consumers by making numerous false claims about his merchandise in infomercials.\n\nOthers have criticized the book for making such claims as, \"If your body is alkaline, you cannot get cancer [...] and if you have cancer, it goes away.\"\n\nThe book makes extensive unreferenced claims that some drugs cause such conditions as AIDS, headaches, bloating, indigestion, heartburn, nausea, allergies, asthma, fibromyalgia, arthritis, diabetes, constipation, yeast infections, dandruff, acne, halitosis, fatigue, depression, stress, and inability to lose weight.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "495688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=495688", "title": "New Era Party", "text": "New Era Party\n\nThe New Era Party (, JL) was a centre-right political party in Latvia. Founded in 2002, the party merged with Civic Union and Society for Other Politics to form Unity in 2011.\n\nNew Era is a member of the European People's Party (EPP) and its MEPs in the European Parliament sat in the European People's Party (previously EPP-ED).\n\nNew Era was founded on 2 February 2002 by Einars Repše, a politician and central banker who was very popular at that time. Originally, most of the party candidates were political unknowns led by Repše.\n\nIn its first election campaign, New Era promised to combat corruption and tax evasion. According to New Era promises, eliminating tax evasion would increase Latvia's state budget by 400 million Latvian lats (about 750 million United States dollars), allowing for increased funding for a variety of programs and also for tax cuts. Running on this platform, the party won 23.9% of the popular vote and 26 out of 100 seats in the 2002 legislative election and became the largest party in the Saeima, the parliament of Latvia. It formed a coalition government with 3 other parties, with the New Era leader Einars Repše as the prime minister. In January 2004, the coalition fell apart and Repše resigned.\n\nNew Era was in the opposition until October 2004, when it joined a coalition government led by Aigars Kalvītis of the People’s Party. It left the coalition after a vote-buying scandal in the Jūrmala municipal elections which involved one of its coalition partners, the Latvia's First Party. The New Era Party first requested Latvia's First Party to leave the coalition. After Latvia's First Party and prime minister Kalvītis refused this demand, all New Era ministers resigned on 13 April 2006. In the October 2006 parliamentary elections, the New Era party won 18 seats. After the elections it did not rejoin the coalition government. Despite its significant losses, it became the largest opposition party.\n\nRepše has lost most of his popularity, due to a sequence of scandals, but remains one of the party leaders. In March 2007, the party established a new structure, in which it had two leaders: Einars Repše and Arturs Krisjanis Karins. Arturs Krisjanis Karins is a United States citizen, born in the United States to a Latvian family.\n\nIn 2008, prominent MPs and members of the board – Ina Druviete, Karlis Sadurskis, Ilma Cepane and Sandra Kalniete left the New Era to create Civic Union. Its leadership resigned, and Solvita Aboltina and Artis Kampars became new leaders. The chairman of the New Era parliamentary faction is Dzintars Zakis.\n\nIn March 2009, New Era Party member Valdis Dombrovskis, who served as finance minister from 2002 to 2004, became Prime Minister, bringing the New Era Party to the leadership of a 4-party, center-right coalition government.\n\nOn 6 August 2011, it merged with two other parties to form the new political party Unity.\n\nThe New Era Party has strong populist leanings and derives most of its appeal from positioning itself as the main anti-corruption force in Latvian politics. New Era supporters characterize most of the other political parties as corrupt and controlled by oligarchs. As a result, New Era has very strained relations with most of the other political parties, which make a considerable effort to leave New Era in opposition whenever possible.\n\nOn ethnic issues, New Era tends to be somewhat nationalist. Its economic positions are uncertain and have changed over time. Its original platform in 2002 included radical free-market reforms in health care and education, such as replacing government-funded higher education by student loans.\n\n"}
{"id": "11595783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11595783", "title": "Nordic model", "text": "Nordic model\n\nThe Nordic model refers to the economic and social policies common to the Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Norway, Iceland, Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Sweden). This includes a comprehensive welfare state and collective bargaining at the national level with a high percentage of the workforce unionized, while being based on the economic foundations of free market capitalism. The Nordic model began to earn attention after World War II.\n\nThe Scandinavian countries were all monarchies, with Finland and Iceland becoming republics in the 20th century; currently, the Nordic countries have been described as being highly democratic. Although there are significant differences among the Nordic countries, they all share some common traits. These include support for a \"universalist\" welfare state aimed specifically at enhancing individual autonomy and promoting social mobility; a corporatist system involving a tripartite arrangement where representatives of labor and employers negotiate wages and labor market policy mediated by the government; and a commitment to private ownership (with some caveats), free markets, and free trade. \n\nEach of the Nordic countries has its own economic and social models, sometimes with large differences from its neighbours.\n\n\"The Nordic Model – Embracing globalization and sharing risks\" characterises the system as follows:\n\n\nThe Nordic countries share active labor market policies as part of a corporatist economic model intended to reduce conflict between labor and the interests of capital. The corporatist system is most extensive in Sweden and Norway, where employer federations and labor representatives bargain at the national level mediated by the government. Labor market interventions are aimed at providing job retraining and relocation.\n\nThe Nordic labor market is flexible, with laws making it easy for employers to hire and shed workers or introduce labor-saving technology. To mitigate the negative effect on workers, the government labor market policies are designed to provide generous social welfare, job retraining and relocation to limit any conflicts between capital and labor that might arise from this process.\n\nThe Nordic model is underpinned by a free market capitalist economic system that features high degrees of private ownership with the exception of Norway, which includes a large number of state-owned enterprises and state ownership in publicly listed firms.\n\nThe Nordic model is described as a system of competitive capitalism combined with a large percentage of the population employed by the public sector (roughly 30% of the work force). In 2013, \"The Economist\" described its countries as \"stout free-traders who resist the temptation to intervene even to protect iconic companies\" while also looking for ways to temper capitalism's harsher effects, and declared that the Nordic countries \"are probably the best-governed in the world\". Some economists have referred to the Nordic economic model as a form of \"cuddly\" capitalism, with low levels of inequality, generous welfare states and reduced concentration of top incomes, and contrast it with the more \"cut-throat\" capitalism of the United States, which has high levels of inequality and a larger concentration of top incomes.\n\nBeginning in the 1990s, the Swedish economy pursued neoliberal reforms that reduced the role of the public sector, leading to the fastest growth in inequality of any OECD economy. However, Sweden's income inequality still remains lower than most other countries.\n\nThe state of Norway has ownership stakes in many of the country's largest publicly listed companies, owning 37% of the Oslo stockmarket and operating the country's largest non-listed companies including Statoil and Statkraft. \"The Economist\" reports that \"after the second world war the government nationalised all German business interests in Norway and ended up owning 44% of Norsk Hydro's shares. The formula of controlling business through shares rather than regulation seemed to work well, so the government used it wherever possible. 'We invented the Chinese way of doing things before the Chinese', says Torger Reve of the Norwegian Business School\". \n\nThe government also operates a sovereign wealth fund, the Government Pension Fund of Norway—whose partial objective is to prepare Norway for a post-oil future, but \"unusually among oil-producing nations, it is also a big advocate of human rights—and a powerful one, thanks to its control of the Nobel peace prize\".\n\nNorway is the only major economy in the West where younger generations are getting richer, with a 13% increase in disposable income for 2018, bucking the trend seen in other Western nations of millennials becoming poorer than the generations which came before.\n\nThe Nordic welfare model refers to the welfare policies of the Nordic countries, which also tie into their labor market policies. The Nordic model of welfare is distinguished from other types of welfare states by its emphasis on maximizing labor force participation, promoting gender equality, egalitarian and extensive benefit levels, the large magnitude of income redistribution and liberal use of expansionary fiscal policy.\n\nWhile there are differences among different Nordic countries, they all share a broad commitment to social cohesion, a universal nature of welfare provision in order to safeguard individualism by providing protection for vulnerable individuals and groups in society and maximizing public participation in social decision-making. It is characterized by flexibility and openness to innovation in the provision of welfare. The Nordic welfare systems are mainly funded through taxation.\n\nDespite the common values, the Nordic countries take different approaches to the practical administration of the welfare state. Denmark features a high degree of private sector provision of public services and welfare, alongside an assimilation immigration policy. Iceland's welfare model is based on a \"welfare-to-work\" (see: workfare) model while part of Finland's welfare state includes the voluntary sector playing a significant role in providing care for the elderly. Norway relies most extensively on public provision of welfare.\n\nThe Nordic model has been successful at significantly reducing poverty. In 2011, poverty rates before taking into account the effects of taxes and transfers stood at 24.7% in Denmark, 31.9% in Finland, 21.6% in Iceland, 25.6% in Norway and 26.5% in Sweden. After accounting for taxes and transfers the poverty rates for the same year became 6%, 7.5%, 5.7%, 7.7% and 9.7% respectively, for an average reduction of 18.7 p.p. Compared to the United States, which has a poverty level pre-tax of 28.3% and post-tax of 17.4% for a reduction of 10.9 p.p., the effects of tax and transfers on poverty in all the Nordic countries are substantially bigger. However, in comparison to France (27 p.p. reduction) and Germany (24.2 p.p. reduction) the taxes and transfers in the Nordic countries are smaller on average.\n\nScandinavian countries have Lutheranism as their main religion. Schroder argues that Lutheranism promotes the idea of a nationwide community of believers and it promotes state involvement in economic and social life. This allows nationwide welfare solidarity and economic coordination.\n\nCurrently, a large number of Scandinavians have been described as being irreligious.\n\nThe Nordic model has been positively received by some American politicians and political commentators. Jerry Mander has likened the Nordic model to a kind of \"hybrid\" system which features a blend of capitalist economics with socialist values, representing an alternative to American-style capitalism. United States Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) has pointed to Scandinavia and the Nordic model as something America can learn from, in particular with respect to the benefits and social protections the Nordic model affords workers and its provision of universal healthcare. According to Naomi Klein, former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev sought to move the Soviet Union in a similar direction to the Nordic system, combining free markets with a social safety net but still retaining public ownership of key sectors of the economy - ingredients that he believed would transform the Soviet Union into \"a socialist beacon for all mankind\".\n\nThe Nordic model has also been positively received by various social scientists and economists. American professor of sociology and political science Lane Kenworthy advocates for the United States to make a gradual transition toward a social democracy similar to those of the Nordic countries, defining social democracy as \"The idea behind social democracy was to make capitalism better. There is disagreement about how exactly to do that, and others might think the proposals in my book aren't true social democracy. But I think of it as a commitment to use government to make life better for people in a capitalist economy. To a large extent, that consists of using public insurance programs—government transfers and services\". Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz has noted that there is higher social mobility in the Scandinavian countries than in the United States and argues that Scandinavia is now the land of opportunity that the United States once was. American author Ann Jones, who lived in Norway for four years, contends \"the Nordic countries give their populations freedom \"from\" the market by using capitalism as a tool to benefit everyone\", whereas in the United States \"neoliberal politics puts the foxes in charge of the henhouse, and capitalists have used the wealth generated by their enterprises (as well as financial and political manipulations) to capture the state and pluck the chickens\".\n\nEconomist Jeffrey Sachs is a proponent of the Nordic model, having pointed out that the Nordic model is \"the proof that modern capitalism can be combined with decency, fairness, trust, honesty, and environmental sustainability.\"\n\nThe Nordic combination of extensive public provision of welfare and a culture of individualism has been described by Lars Trägårdh, of Ersta Sköndal University College, as \"statist individualism\".\n\nA 2016 survey by the think tank Israel Democracy Institute found that nearly 60 percent of Israeli Jews preferred a \"Scandinavian model\" economy, with high taxes and a robust welfare state.\n\nGeorge Lakey, author of \"Viking Economics\", asserts that Americans generally misunderstand the nature of the Nordic \"welfare state\":\n\nAmericans imagine that \"welfare state\" means the U.S. welfare system on steroids. Actually, the Nordics scrapped their American-style welfare system at least 60 years ago, and substituted universal services, which means everyone—rich and poor—gets free higher education, free medical services, free eldercare, etc. \n\nIn his role as economic adviser to Poland and Yugoslavia in their post-socialist transitional period, Jeffrey Sachs noted that the specific forms of Western-style capitalism such as Swedish-style social democracy and Thatcherite liberalism are virtually identical:\n\nThe eastern countries must reject any lingering ideas about a “third way”, such as a chimerical “market socialism” based on public ownership or worker self-management, and go straight for a western-style market economy...The main debate in economic reform should therefore be about the means of transition, not the ends. Eastern Europe will still argue over the ends: for example, whether to aim for Swedish-style social democracy or Thatcherite liberalism. But that can wait. Sweden and Britain alike have nearly complete private ownership, private financial markets and active labour markets. Eastern Europe today [in 1990] has none of these institutions; for it, the alternative models of Western Europe are almost identical.\n\nIn a speech at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, Danish Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen addressed the American misconception that the Nordic model is a form of socialism: \"'I know that some people in the US associate the Nordic model with some sort of socialism,' he said. 'Therefore, I would like to make one thing clear. Denmark is far from a socialist planned economy. Denmark is a market economy.'\"\n\nThe socialist economists John Roemer and Pranab Bardhan criticize Nordic-style social democracy for its questionable effectiveness in promoting relative egalitarianism as well as its sustainability. They point out that Nordic social democracy requires a strong labor movement to sustain the heavy redistribution required, arguing that it is idealistic to think similar levels of redistribution can be accomplished in countries with weaker labor movements. They note that even in the Scandinavian countries social democracy has been in decline since the weakening of the labor movement in the early 1990s, arguing that the sustainability of social democracy is limited. Roemer and Bardham argue that establishing a market socialist economy by changing enterprise ownership would be more effective than social democratic redistribution at promoting egalitarian outcomes, particularly in countries with weak labor movements.\n\nHistorian Guðmundur Jónsson argues that it would be inaccurate to include Iceland in one aspect of the Nordic model, that of consensus democracy. He writes that \"Icelandic democracy is better described as more adversarial than consensual in style and practice. The labour market was rife with conflict and strikes more frequent than in Europe, resulting in strained government–trade union relationship. Secondly, Iceland did not share the Nordic tradition of power-sharing or corporatism as regards labour market policies or macro-economic policy management, primarily because of the weakness of Social Democrats and the Left in general. Thirdly, the legislative process did not show a strong tendency towards consensus-building between government and opposition with regard to government seeking consultation or support for key legislation. Fourthly, the political style in legislative procedures and public debate in general tended to be adversarial rather than consensual in nature\".\n\nIn their paper \"The Scandinavian Fantasy: The Sources of Intergeneration Mobility in Denmark and the U.S.\", Rasmus Landersøn and James J. Heckman compared American and Danish social mobility and found that social mobility is not as high as figures might suggest in the Nordic countries. When looking exclusively at wages (before taxes and transfers), Danish and American social mobility are very similar. It is only after taxes and transfers are taken into account that Danish social mobility improves, indicating that Danish economic redistribution policies simply give the impression of greater mobility. Additionally, Denmark's greater investment in public education did not improve educational mobility significantly, meaning children of non-college educated parents are still unlikely to receive college education, though this public investment did result in improved cognitive skills amongst poor Danish children compared to their American peers. The researchers also found evidence that generous welfare policies could discourage the pursuit of higher-level education due to decreasing the economic benefits that college education level jobs offer and increasing welfare for workers of a lower education level.\n\nNima Sanandaji, a libertarian, has also criticized the Nordic model, questioning the link between the model and socio-economic outcomes in works of his such as \"Scandinavian Unexceptionalism\" and \"Debunking Utopia: Exposing the Myth of Nordic Socialism\".\n\nAccording to sociologist Lane Kenworthy, in the context of the Nordic model \"social democracy\", the ideology of the Nordic labour parties, refers to a set of policies for promoting economic security and opportunity within the framework of capitalism rather than a replacement for capitalism. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40454305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40454305", "title": "Operation Lowrider", "text": "Operation Lowrider\n\nThe Northern Command Aerial Sensor Platform, also known as Operation Lowrider, is an American surveillance program intended to aid in combat against Mexican drug cartels, in effect since 2011. While the United States has long aided the Mexican government, the program marks a shift in US tactics.\n\nRe-purposing techniques and equipment honed in the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, Lowrider employs manned, single engine surveillance planes that track the day-to-day movements of cartel personnel. The program created controversy as it employs private contractors to conduct surveillance, contracts awarded without bidding. The use of manned, single engine surveillance planes is also considered a dangerous risk, since the failure of the one engine could strand a pilot in the Mexican wilderness. The future of the program is in question due to Mexican President, Enrique Peña Nieto's desire to disengage his country's intelligence agency from that of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "56087008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56087008", "title": "Police Department of Russia", "text": "Police Department of Russia\n\nThe Police Department of the MVD () was the main police force of the Russian Empire and part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD) in the late 19th century, and was responsible for the management of all the police forces in the Russian Empire including Okhrana branches, and was aided by the Special Corps of Gendarmes.\nThe Police Department was established on August 6, 1880 following the dissolution of the Third Section. The newly formed Police department was part of the MVD. From 1880 til 1883 it was called The Department of the State Police (\"Департамент государственной полиции\"). Under it jurisdiction was the Okhrana, all the policing bodies, including the detective branches, and the Fire departments.\n\nAfter the February Revolution the Department was dissolved by the decree of the Russian provisional government from February 27, 1917. \n\nAfter the October Revolution the government has announced the establishment of the Militsiya, as the new police force.\n\nThe head of the department was The Director of the Police Department, which was appointed by the Minister of the Internal Affairs.\n"}
{"id": "22423508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22423508", "title": "Project on Middle East Democracy", "text": "Project on Middle East Democracy\n\nThe Project on Middle East Democracy (POMED) is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization based in Washington, D.C., dedicated to examining how genuine democracies can develop in the Middle East and how the United States can best support that process. Through dialogue, research, and advocacy, POMED works to strengthen the constituency for U.S. policies that peacefully support democratic reform in the Middle East.\n\nIn 2004, a small group of graduate students at Georgetown University began meeting regularly to discuss the need for a stronger voice in Washington in support of democratic principles in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). The group was driven by a firm belief that the advancement of democratic values is not only in the interest of the region's citizens, but also very much in the strategic interests of the United States.\n\nIn 2006, this group formally established the Project on Middle East Democracy (POMED) to help fill gaps it had identified: to inform the Washington policy community on key political developments in the MENA region and the impact of U.S. policy on the prospects for genuine democratic change; to carry out sustained advocacy on behalf of greater U.S. support for democratic values; and to help broaden U.S. engagement beyond relationships with the region's governments and narrow set of traditional elites.\n\nSince that time, POMED has also grown to help build the capacity of dozens of independent civil society organizations in the MENA region that wish to play the same role locally that POMED plays in Washington—of undertaking independent research and analysis, generating independent recommendations for policy, and carrying out advocacy to advance those recommendations.\n\nThrough Research, Advocacy, and Civil Society Partnerships, POMED works to strengthen support for genuine democratic development in the Middle East and North Africa.\n\nResearch: The research program produces original analysis of key issues and trends in democratic change, political reform, human rights, and authoritarianism in the countries of the Middle East and North Africa and of U.S. policy as it pertains to democratic development in the region. Research publications include Snapshots, Policy Briefs, Expert Q&A’s, Backgrounders, Reports, and Fact Sheets. Authors include POMED’s Nonresident Fellows, resident staff, and other experts based in the region, the United States, and Europe.\n\nAdvocacy: The advocacy program directly engages a broad network of U.S. policymakers, while working closely with the coalition of activists and advocates who share a commitment to democracy and human rights in the Middle East and North Africa.\n\nCivil Society Partnerships: The civil society partnerships program aims to build the capacity of emerging regional policy centers through technical assistance trainings and regular guidance and mentorship. We work with nascent civil society organizations across the MENA region to strengthen advocacy and policy writing skills and promote improved institutional practices to help ensure organizational viability and impact.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36381680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36381680", "title": "Public Advocate of the United States", "text": "Public Advocate of the United States\n\nPublic Advocate of the United States is an organization founded in either 1978 or 1981 (disputed) by Eugene Delgaudio. It advocates religious conservative policies in American politics. The Southern Poverty Law Center has designated the organization as a hate group for its anti-gay activism.\n\nThe organization's platform includes:\n\n\n\nThe organization has been designated as a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) for its anti-gay activism.\n\nIn September 2012, it was reported that the SPLC was suing Public Advocate in Denver, Colorado, federal court over a mailer sent to some Colorado primary voters in 2010. The mailer included a modified version of their client's engagement photo, taken of them kissing with the Brooklyn Bridge as a backdrop. Their client is a gay couple who were married in a civil ceremony in Connecticut. The photo had been copied without permission from the couple's blog and edited to appear as if they were kissing with snow-covered pine trees surrounding them, with bold words on a red background saying \"State Senator Jean White's idea of \"Family Values?\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "539920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539920", "title": "Risk-free bond", "text": "Risk-free bond\n\nA risk-free bond is a theoretical bond that repays interest and principal with absolute certainty. The rate of return would be the risk-free interest rate. It is primary security, which pays off 1 unit no matter state of economy is realized at time formula_1. So its payoff is the same regardless of what state occurs. Thus, an investor experiences no risk by investing in such an asset.\n\nIn practice, government bonds of financially stable countries are treated as risk-free bonds, as governments can raise taxes or indeed print money to repay their domestic currency debt.\n\nFor instance, United States Treasury notes and United States Treasury bonds are often assumed to be risk-free bonds. Even though investors in United States Treasury securities do in fact face a small amount of credit risk, this risk is often considered to be negligible. An example of this credit risk was shown by Russia, which defaulted on its domestic debt during the 1998 Russian financial crisis.\n\nIn financial literature, it is not uncommon to derive the Black-Scholes formula by introducing a continuously rebalanced \"risk-free portfolio\" containing an option and underlying stocks. In the absence of arbitrage, the return from such a portfolio needs to match returns on risk-free bonds. This property leads to the Black-Scholes partial differential equation satisfied by the arbitrage price of an option. It appears, however, that the risk-free portfolio does not satisfy the formal definition of a self-financing strategy, and thus this way of deriving the Black-Sholes formula is flawed.\n\nWe assume throughout that trading takes place continuously in time, and unrestricted borrowing and lending of funds is possible at the same constant interest rate. Furthermore, the market is frictionless, meaning that there are no transaction costs or taxes, and no discrimination against the short sales. In other words, we shall deal with the case of a \"perfect market\".\n\nLet´s assume that the \"short-term interest rate\" formula_2 is constant (but not necessarily nonnegative) over the trading interval formula_3. The risk-free security is assumed to continuously compound in value at the rate formula_2; that is, formula_5. We adopt the usual convention that formula_6, so that its price equals formula_7 for every formula_8. When dealing with the Black-Scholes model, we may equally well replace the savings account by the \"risk-free bond\". A unit zero-coupon bond maturing at time formula_9 is a security paying to its holder 1 unit of cash at a predetermined date formula_9 in the future, known as the bond´s \"maturity date\". Let formula_11 stand for the price at time formula_12 of a bond maturing at time formula_9. It is easily seen that to replicate the payoff 1 at time formula_9 it suffices to invest formula_15 units of cash at time formula_16 in the savings account formula_17. This shows that, in the absence of arbitrage opportunities, the price of the bond satisfies\n\nformula_18\n\nNote that for any fixed T, the bond price solves the ordinary differential equation\n\nformula_19\n\nWe consider here a \"risk-free\" bond, meaning that its issuer will not default on his obligation to pat to the bondholder the face value at maturity date.\n\nThe risk-free bond can be replicated by a portfolio of two Arrow-Debreu securities. This portfolio exactly matches the payoff of the risk-free bond since the portfolio too pays 1 unit regardless of which state occurs. This is because if its price were different from that of the risk-free bond, we would have an \"arbitrage opportunity\" present in the economy. When an arbitrage opportunity is present, it means that riskless profits can be made through some trading strategy. In this specific case, if portfolio of Arrow-Debreu securities differs in price from the price of the risk-free bond, then the arbitrage strategy would be to buy the lower priced one and sell short the higher priced one. Since each has exactly the same payoff profile, this trade would leave us with zero net risk (the risk of one cancels the other´s risk because we have bought and sold in equal quantities the same payoff profile). However, we would make a profit because we are buying at a low price and selling at a high price. Since arbitrage conditions cannot exist in an economy, the price of the risk-free bond equals the price of the portfolio.\n\nThe calculation is related to an Arrow-Debreu security. Let´s call the price of the risk-free bond at time formula_16 as formula_21. The formula_22 refers to the fact that the bond matures at time formula_22. As mentioned before, the risk-free bond can be replicated by a portfolio of two Arrow-Debreu securities, one share of formula_24 and one share of formula_25.\n\nUsing formula for the price of an formula_26 Arrow-Debreu securities\n\nformula_27\n\nwhich is a product of ratio of \"the intertemporal marginal rate of substitution\" (the ratio of marginal utilities across time, it is also referred to as the \"state price density\" and \"the pricing kernel\") and \"the probability\" of state occurring in which the Arrow-Debreu security pays off 1 unit. The price of the portfolio is simply\n\nformula_28\n\nformula_29\n\nTherefore, the price of a risk-free bond is simply the expected value, taken with respect to the probability measure formula_30, of the intertemporal marginal rate of substitution. The interest rate formula_2, is now defined using the reciprocal of the bond price.\n\nformula_32\n\nTherefore, we have the fundamental relation\n\nformula_33\n\nthat defines the interest rate in any economy.\n\nSuppose that the \"probability of state 1\" occurring is 1/4, while \"probability of state 2\" occurring is 3/4. Also assume that \"the pricing kernel\" equals 0.95 for state 1 and 0.92 for state 2.\n\nLet the pricing kernel denotes as formula_34 . Then we have two Arrow-Debreu securities formula_35 with parameters\n\nformula_36\n\nformula_37\n\nThen using the previous formulas, we can calculate the bond price\n\nformula_38\n\nThe interest rate is then given by\n\nformula_39\n\nThus, we see that the pricing of a bond and the determination of interest rate is simple to do once the set of Arrow-Debreu prices, the prices of Arrow-Debreu securities, are known.\n\n"}
{"id": "2570166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2570166", "title": "San Francisco Mime Troupe", "text": "San Francisco Mime Troupe\n\nThe San Francisco Mime Troupe is a theatre of political satire which performs free shows in various parks in the San Francisco Bay Area and around California. The Troupe does not, however, perform silent mime, but each year creates an original musical comedy that combines aspects of Commedia dell'Arte, melodrama, and broad farce with topical political themes. The group was awarded the Regional Theatre Award at the 41st Tony Awards.\n\nThe group was founded in 1959 by R. G. Davis as a medium of expression of his divergent theatrical concepts. The group debuted with \"Mime and Word\" (1959) and \"The 11th Hour Mime Show\" (1960). However, by 1961, the group transitioned to the Commedia dell'Arte format to more thoroughly comment on perceived political repression in the United States of America, the growing American Civil Rights Movement and military and covert intervention abroad. In the mid-1960s the group started to rely less on the direct Commedia dell'Arte format and transitioned into a more rambunctious, satirical style. It also began integrating elements of Jazz into its musical composition, eventually leading to the inclusion of a jazz band within the troupe. The group gained significant notoriety for its free performances in Golden Gate Park and numerous altercations with law enforcement.\n\nBy the early 1970s, the Troupe had earned a reputation for opposing capitalism, sexism, and war.\n\nIn the early 70s Mr. Davis left the Troupe when it re-formed as a Collective, the members of which operate as the Artistic Director, at which time the Troupe produced one of its most successful shows, \"The Independent Female\" (1970). In the 1980s, the group's productions retaliated against the Reagan administration with a number of productions:\n\n\nSome of the Troupe's more recent popular shows include \"The Minstrel Show or Civil Rights in a Cracker Barrel,\" which satirized entrenched attitudes among liberals and bigots during the Civil Rights Struggle, \"Seeing Double,\" about a two-state solution in the Israeli/Palestinian conflict, \"Ripped VanWinkle\" which explores the gap between the optimism of 1968 and the 1988 reality.\"Offshore,\" about the real cost of Globalization, \"Eating It,\" about genetic engineering and profit driven science, \"1600 Transylvania Avenue,\" about corporate government feeding on public wealth, \"GodFellas,\" a farce exposing the dangers of Fundamentalism to Democracy, and \"Making a Killing,\" about war propaganda, and the plight of Iraqis contaminated by depleted uranium. \"Red State,\" the Troupe's 2008 fable about a small Midwest town that, after years of being ignored, demands accountability for their tax dollars, was nominated for a San Francisco Bay Area Theater Critic's Award for Best New Script, as was their 2009 production, Too Big To Fail, which detailed how credit and the philosophy of profit at all costs trap mesmerized citizens in a cycle of debt, while endlessly enriching the Capitalists who cast the spell. Most recently the Troupe produced Posibilidad, or Death of the Worker, which juxtaposes the stories of workers taking over two factories - one in Argentina and one in the U.S. - and poses the question: why are American Workers fighting for a seat at the table? Why not fight for... the whole table?\n\nAs well as the park-based shows, the Mime Troupe also tours nationally and internationally, having performed throughout Europe, Asia, South and Central America, and has won several awards. The group also facilitates community workshops. They are a nonprofit making organization. The season traditionally starts on Fourth of July weekend and ends on Labor Day weekend.\n\nEarly Mime Troupers include Joe Bellan, Saul Landau, Arthur Holden, Nina Serrano, Steve Reich, John Connell, Robert Nelson, William T. Wiley, Sandra Archer, Robert Hudson, Wally Hedrick, Judy North, Jerry Jump, Fred Hayden,\nVictoria Hochberg, Joaquin Aranda, Esteban Oropezo and John Broderick. Posters for several of the 1970s productions were designed by Jane Norling, and are accessible through the extensive online archive of the San Francisco Mime Troupe.\n\nLater veterans include Arthur Holden, Sharon Lockwood, Peter Coyote, Luis Valdez, Barry Shabaka Henley, Bruce Barthol, Joan Holden, Joan Mankin, Melody James, Andrea Snow, Daniel Chumley, Jael Weisman, Jim Haynie, John Robb, Emmett Grogan, Bill Graham, and Ed Holmes.\n\nThe current San Francisco Mime Troupe Collective comprises Rotimi Agbabiaka, Michael Bello, Velina Brown, Ellen Callas, Hugo E Carbajal, Michael Carreiro, Marie Cartier, Lisa Hori-Garcia, Taylor Gonzalez, Keiko Shimosato Carreiro, Daniel Savio, Michael Gene Sullivan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26790310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26790310", "title": "Shopping mall high school", "text": "Shopping mall high school\n\nShopping Mall High School is a term used in reference to consumer-oriented secondary educational institutions offering an abundance of student choice within its program. This most often includes choice of schedule, classes, a wide variety of subject matter, subjulty, and extracurricular activities (sports and hobbies). Schools dubbed shopping mall high schools make such numerous and different accommodations for students in an attempt to allow students to achieve the customized, individualized education and training they desire. Shopping mall high schools offer various curricula in order to maximize holding power, graduation percentages, and customer satisfaction.\n\nThe concept of a shopping mall high school was first introduced in the best-selling 1985 book, \"The Shopping Mall High School : Winners and Losers in the Educational Marketplace\" by authors Arthur G. Powell, Eleanor Farrar, and David K. Cohen. The book is the second report from \"A Study of High Schools,\" and is the successor volume to education reform leader Theodore Sizer's \"Horace's Compromise\". Albert Shanker, former president of the American Federation of Teachers, called \"The Shopping Mall High School\" \"a sobering analysis of current conditions in our secondary schools and how they got that way.\" In \"The Shopping Mall High School\", the authors argue that high schools have come to resemble shopping malls in terms of variety, choice and neutrality. The book, often required reading for education majors in the 1980s and 1990s, exposed the realities of the comprehensive high school and set off a debate that would later incorporate themes about school vouchers and the marketplace.\n\nAs high school enrollment increased and diversified during the 20th century, researchers have concluded that standards became lower, resulting in the less-challenging and more-accommodating shopping mall high school style. In their book, \"The Failed Promise of the American High School 1890-1995,\" authors David Angus (education historian and professor in Education Studies at the University of Michigan) and Jeffrey E. Mirel (also a professor in Education Studies at the University of Michigan) report that by the 1950s, education aimed at the lowest common denominator become the norm in America's high schools.\n\nAuthor and Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Southwest State University, H.M. Curtler, identifies two main factors that have resulted in \"the dumbing-down of high school and college curricula\" and the subsequent increase in shopping mall high schools: \"the major effort in the late 1940s to focus attention in the schools on the disadvantaged student in the guise of teaching what was called real-life experience,\" and the correlative de-emphasis on traditional literate knowledge. This approach was linked to progressive educational theories that soon spawned the \"self-esteem movement\" prevalent today, turning attention away from traditional educational standards to the students themselves.\n\nIn the 1980s, \"The Shopping Mall High School\" and similar books documented the lack of challenging content in many high school courses. Despite the current policies of mandated student testing and performance-based school funding, evidence from recent reports indicates that the problem of high school students graduating without thoroughly developing many standard intellectual skills persists. In many cases this problem results from the lack of clear state and local standards for what students are expected to learn, and the methods used to teach them. According to the National Center for Educational Achievement, \"the failure of schools, school systems and states to define appropriate standards for high school courses has been a major influence in the move to Advanced Placement and IB courses.\" \n\nWhile advocates for shopping mall style schools boast inclusiveness and freedom of student choice within such programs, critics warn against catering to juvenile whims. Educator and academic critic E.D. Hirsch, Jr. refers to the trend of shopping mall high schools in his influential book \"Cultural Literacy\", calling the American public school curriculum \"cafeteria style education\" that detrimentally serves to diminish \"commonly shared information between generations and between young people themselves.\" Hirsch believes the unavoidable consequence of the shopping mall high school is a lack of shared knowledge across and within American schools resulting in harmful cultural fragmentation.\n\nIn the journal article \"What High Schools Are Like,\" writer and Emeritus Professor of Education at the University of California, Davis, Donald Arnstine critiques the shopping mall approach:\nTo urge the proliferation of shopping mall high schools is to ignore the fact that learning just isn't like shopping. Presented with a wide array of goods, we can purchase what we want and carry it home in a shopping bag. But if we are presented with a wide array of knowledge, organized by others for \"their\" purposes, we cannot just acquire it and carry it home in our heads. In fact most of it disappears once we're home (that's why teachers like to give tests on Friday). Only if one assumes that learning is simply a matter of acquiring information (for how long? a week? a semester? forever?) can one believe that schools can be improved by becoming more like shopping malls.\nThe 1982 film \"Fast Times at Ridgemont High\" also makes a comparison of high schools to shopping malls. Its opening titles appear over scenes of a mall, which continues throughout as the main setting where students live out their adolescence.\n\nMalls across the United States have seen a decline in business since the heyday of the 1980s. At the same time, school systems are dealing with budget cuts affecting programs for troubled teens. The two problems have joined together in a unique solution. Malls such as the Westminster Mall in Southern California houses an alternative school in mall space donated by the Simon Youth foundation. Rick Markoff, the executive vice president of the foundation, says there are 25 \"mall schools\" like Westminster across the U.S. and more on the way. Most students don't just attend school at the mall, they also intern and work there.\nHistory of Education in the United States\n\nSecondary education in the United States\n\n"}
{"id": "360815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360815", "title": "Thaksin Shinawatra", "text": "Thaksin Shinawatra\n\nThaksin Shinawatra (; ; ; born 26 July 1949) is a Thai and Montenegrin businessman, politician and visiting professor who was the Prime Minister of Thailand from 2001 to 2006 and Thai Police from 1973 to 1987. \n\nThe former police officer founded the mobile phone operator Advanced Info Service and the IT and telecommunications conglomerate Shin Corporation in 1987, that made him one of the richest people in Thailand. He joined politics in 1994, founded the Thai Rak Thai Party (TRT) in 1998 and, after a landslide electoral victory, became prime minister in 2001.\n\nThaksin's government launched programs to reduce poverty, expand infrastructure, promote small and medium-sized enterprises, and universal healthcare coverage. Thaksin declared a \"war on drugs\" in which more than 2,500 people died and took a strong-arm approach against the separatist insurgency in the Muslim southern provinces. He was the first democratically elected prime minister of Thailand to serve a full term and was re-elected in 2005 by an overwhelming majority.\n\nAfter selling shares of his corporation worth more than a billion dollars to foreign investors without paying taxes, considerable criticism resulted. A citizens' movement against Thaksin, called People's Alliance for Democracy or \"yellow shirts\", launched mass protests, accusing him of corruption, abuse of power and autocratic tendencies. Thaksin called snap elections that were boycotted by the opposition and invalidated by the Constitutional Court.\n\nHe was overthrown in a military coup on 19 September 2006. His party was outlawed and he was barred from political activity. Thaksin has since lived in self-imposed exile except for a brief visit to Thailand in 2008. He was sentenced \"in absentia\" to two years in jail for abuse of power. From abroad he has continued to influence Thai politics, through the People's Power Party that ruled in 2008, and its successor organisation Pheu Thai Party, as well as the United Front for Democracy Against Dictatorship or \"red shirt\" movement. His younger sister Yingluck Shinawatra was the prime minister of Thailand from 2011 to 2014.\n\nIn 2009, Thaksin said in an interview that he was living in Dubai and still had access to about $100 million of his money.\n\nThaksin's great-grandfather, Seng Saekhu, was an immigrant from Meizhou, Guangdong, China, who arrived in Siam in the 1860s and settled in Chiang Mai in 1908. His eldest son, Chiang Saekhu, was born in Chanthaburi in 1890 and married a Thai woman named Saeng Samana. Chiang's eldest son, Sak, adopted the Thai surname Shinawatra (\"routinely appropriate action\") in 1938 because of the country's anti-Chinese movement, and the rest of the family also adopted it.\n\nSeng Saekhu had made his fortune through tax farming. Chiang Saekhu/Shinawatra later founded Shinawatra Silks and then moved into finance, construction, and property development. Thaksin's father, Loet, was born in Chiang Mai in 1919 and married Yindi Ramingwong. Yindi's father, Charoen Ramingwong (born: Wang Chuan Cheng), was a Hakka immigrant who married Princess Chanthip na Chiangmai, a minor member of the Lanna (Chiang Mai) royalty. In 1968, Loet Shinawatra entered politics and became an MP for Chiang Mai and deputy leader of the now-defunct Liberal Party. Loet Shinawatra quit politics in 1976. He opened a coffee shop, grew oranges and flowers in Chiang Mai's San Kamphaeng district, and opened two cinemas, a gas station, and a car and motorcycle dealership. By the time Thaksin was born, the Shinawatra family was one of the richest and most influential families in Chiang Mai.\n\nThaksin was born in San Kamphaeng, Chiang Mai province. He is Theravada Buddhism. He lived in the village of San Kamphaeng until he was 15, then moved to Chiang Mai city to study at Montfort College. At 16, he helped run one of his father's cinemas.\n\nThaksin married Potjaman Damapong in July 1976. They have one son, Panthongtae and two daughters, Pintongtha and Peathongtarn. They divorced in 2008. Thaksin's youngest sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, is said to have entered politics in 2011 at her brother's request as leader of the pro-Thaksin Pheu Thai Party and was elected prime minister on 3 July 2011. Thaksin earned a doctorate in criminology at Sam Houston State University. Thaksin Shinawatra is a former university lecturer at Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities of Mahidol University in 1979.\n\nThaksin Shinawatra was a member of the 10th class of the Armed Forces Academies Preparatory School, and was then admitted to the Thai Police Cadet Academy. Graduating in 1973, he joined the Royal Thai Police. He received a master's degree in Criminal Justice from Eastern Kentucky University in the United States in 1975, and three years later was awarded a doctorate in criminal justice at Sam Houston State University in Huntsville, Texas. Returning to Thailand, he reached the position of Deputy Superintendent of the Policy and Planning Sub-division, General Staff Division, Metropolitan Police Bureau, before resigning his commission in 1987 as a Police Lieutenant Colonel and leaving the police. His former wife, Potjaman Damapong, is the daughter of a Police General Priewpan Damapong and now uses her mother's maiden name. He is a former university lecturer at Royal Police Cadet Academy in 1975-1976.\nThaksin Shinawatra was revoked his Police Lieutenant Colonel rank on September 2015.\n\nThaksin and his wife began several businesses while he was still in the police, including a silk shop, a cinema, and an apartment building. All were failures and left him over 50 million baht in debt. In 1982, he established ICSI. Using his police contacts, he leased computers to government agencies with modest success. However, later ventures in security systems (SOS) and public bus radio services (Bus Sound) all failed. In April 1986, he founded Advanced Info Service (AIS), which started off as a computer rental business.\n\nIn 1987 Thaksin resigned from the police. He then marketed a romance drama called \"Baan Sai Thong\", which became a popular success in theatres. In 1988, he joined Pacific Telesis to operate and market the PacLink pager service, a modest success, though Thaksin later sold his shares to establish his own paging company.\nIn 1989, he launched IBC, a cable television company. At that time, Thaksin had a very good relationship with Chalerm Yoobumrung, the minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who was in charge of Thai press and media. It is a question whether Chalerm granted the right to Thaksin to establish IBC to benefit his close friend, seeing that the project had been denied by the previous administration. However, it turned out to be a money loser and he eventually merged the company with the CP Group's UTV.\nIn 1989, Thaksin established a data networking service, Shinawatra DataCom, today known as Advanced Data Network and owned by AIS and the TOT. Many of Thaksin's businesses were later consolidated as Shin Corp.\n\nAdvance Info Service was given a monopoly contract by his contacts in the military in 1986 and operates under GSM 900 frequency. AIS grew rapidly and became the largest mobile phone operator in Thailand.\n\nThe Shinawatra Computer and Communications Group was founded in 1987 and listed in 1990.\n\nIn 1990, Thaksin founded Shinawatra Satellite, which has developed and operated four Thaicom communications satellites.\n\nIn 1999, the Shinawatra family spent some 1 billion baht establishing Shinawatra University in Pathum Thani. It offers international programs in engineering, architecture, and business management, though it ranks quite low in international standings.\n\nIn 2000, Thaksin acquired the ailing iTV television station from the Crown Property Bureau, Nation Multimedia Group, and Siam Commercial Bank.\n\nThaksin entered politics in late 1994 through Chamlong Srimuang, who had just reclaimed the position of Palang Dharma Party (PDP) leader from Boonchu Rojanastien. In a subsequent purge of Boonchu-affiliated PDP Cabinet ministers, Thaksin was appointed Foreign Minister in December 1994, replacing Prasong Soonsiri. Thaksin left Palang Dharma along with many of its MPs in 1996, and founded the populist Thai Rak Thai (TRT) party in 1998. After a historic election victory in 2001, he became prime minister, the country's first to serve a full term.\nThaksin introduced a range of policies to alleviate rural poverty; highly popular, they helped reduce poverty by half in four years. He launched the country's first universal healthcare program, the 30-baht scheme, as well as a highly notorious drug suppression campaign. Thaksin embarked on a massive program of infrastructure investment, including roads, public transit, and Suvarnabhumi Airport. Nevertheless, public sector debt fell from 57% of GDP in January 2001 to 41% in September 2006. Levels of corruption were perceived to have fallen, with Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index improving from 3.2 to 3.8 between 2001 and 2005. The Thai Rak Thai party won an unprecedented landslide in the 2005 general election, which had the highest voter turnout in Thai history. Twelve years later, after Thaksin was removed from power, Chamlong Srimuang expressed regret at getting \"such a corrupt person\" into politics. The PDP soon withdrew from the government over the Sor Por Kor 4-01 land reform corruption scandal, causing the government of Chuan Leekpai to collapse.\n\nChamlong, strongly criticised for mishandling internal PDP politics in the last days of the Chuan-government, retired from politics and hand-picked Thaksin as new PDP leader. Thaksin ran for election for the first time for the constitutional tribunal and lost.\n\nThaksin joined the government of Banharn Silpa-Archa and was appointed Deputy Prime Minister in charge of Bangkok traffic. In May 1996, he and four other PDP ministers quit the Banharn Cabinet (while retaining their MP seats), prompting a Cabinet reshuffle. Many have claimed that Thaksin's move was designed to help give Chamlong Srimuang a boost in the June 1996 Bangkok Governor elections, which Chamlong returned from retirement to contest. But Chamlong lost to Bhichit Rattakul, an independent.\n\nChamlong's failure to buttress the PDP's failing power base in Bangkok amplified divisions in the PDP, particularly between Chamlong's \"temple\" faction and Thaksin's. Soon afterwards, Chamlong announced he was retiring again from politics.\n\nThaksin and the PDP pulled out of the Banharn-government in August 1996. In a subsequent no-confidence debate, the PDP gave evidence against the Banharn government, and in September 1996 Banharn dissolved Parliament.\n\nThaksin announced he would not run in the subsequent November 1996 elections but would remain as leader of the PDP. It suffered a fatal defeat in the elections, winning only one seat, and soon imploded, with most members resigning.\n\nOn 15 August 1997, Thaksin became Deputy Prime Minister in Chavalit Yongchaiyudh's government, after the Thai baht was floated and devalued on 2 July 1997, sparking the Asian Financial Crisis. He held the position for only three months, leaving on 14 November when Chavalit resigned.\n\nDuring a censure debate on 27 September 1997, Democrat Suthep Thaugsuban accused Thaksin of profiting from insider information about the government's decision to float the baht, but the next Democrat party-led government did not investigate the accusations.\n\nDuring this period, Thaksin also served on the Asia Advisory Board of the Washington, D.C. based Carlyle Group until he resigned upon becoming Prime Minister in 2001.\n\nThaksin founded the Thai Rak Thai (\"Thais Love Thais\" – TRT) party in 1998 along with Somkid Jatusripitak, PDP ally Sudarat Keyuraphan, Purachai Piumsomboon, and 19 others.\n\nWith a populist platform often attributed to Somkid, TRT promised universal access to healthcare, a 3-year debt moratorium for farmers, and 1 million THB locally managed development funds for all Thai villages.\n\nAfter Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai dissolved parliament in November 2000, TRT won a sweeping victory in the January 2001 elections, the first held under the Constitution of 1997. At the time, some academics called it the most open, corruption-free election in Thai history. Thai Rak Thai won 248 parliamentary seats (more than any other party previously) and needed only 3 more seats to form a government. Nonetheless, Thaksin opted for a broad coalition to gain total control and avoid a vote of no confidence, with the Chart Thai Party (41 seats) and the New Aspiration Party (36 seats), while absorbing the smaller Seritham Party (14 seats).\n\nThe Thaksin government faced allegations of corruption, authoritarianism, treason, conflicts of interest, acting non-diplomatically, and muzzling of the press. Thaksin was accused of tax evasion, lèse majesté (insulting King Bhumibol), and selling assets of Thai companies to international investors. Independent bodies, including Amnesty International, criticised Thaksin's human rights record. Thaksin was also charged for concealing his wealth during his premiership.\n\nProtests by the People's Alliance for Democracy occurred in 2006, and on 19 September 2006 a military junta which later called itself the Council for National Security (CNS) replaced Thaksin's care-taker government in a coup while he was abroad. The Constitutional Tribunal dissolved the Thai Rak Thai party for electoral fraud ex post facto, banning him and TRT's executives from politics for five years. The CNS-appointed Assets Examination Committee froze Thaksin and his family's assets in Thailand, totalling 76 billion baht ($2.2 billion), claiming he had become unusually wealthy while in office. Thaksin and his wife had declared assets totalling 15.1 billion baht when he took office in 2001, although he had transferred many of his assets to his children and associates before taking office.\n\nThaksin returned to Thailand on 28 February 2008, after the People's Power Party, which he supported, won the post-coup elections. But after visiting Beijing for the 2008 Summer Olympics, he did not return to hear the final supreme court sentence and applied for asylum in the United Kingdom. This was refused, after which he had to move about from one country to another. In October, the Thailand Supreme Court found him guilty of a conflict of interest and sentenced him \"in absentia\" to two years imprisonment.\n\nThe People's Power Party was later dissolved by the Supreme Court, but party members regrouped to form the Pheu Thai Party, which Thaksin also supported. Thaksin is a supporter, and alleged bankroller, of the United Front for Democracy Against Dictatorship (aka \"Red Shirts\"). The Government revoked Thaksin's passport for his role in the UDD's protests during Songkran 2009. On 26 February 2010, the Supreme Court seized 46 billion baht of his frozen assets, after finding him guilty of abnormal wealth. In 2009 it was announced that Thaksin had obtained Montenegrin citizenship through that country's economic citizenship program.\n\nThaksin Shinawatra was the first prime minister of Thailand to complete a full term in office, and his rule is generally agreed to have been one of the most distinctive in the country's modern history. He initiated many eye-catching policies that distinguished him from his predecessors. They affected the economy, public health, education, energy, social order, drug suppression and international relations. He gained one re-election victory.\n\nThaksin's most effective policies were reducing rural poverty and the introduction of universal healthcare, allowing him to galvanise the vast and largely untapped support base of the rural poor, especially in the populous northeast.\n\nHis Cabinet consisted of a broad coalition of academics, former student leaders, and former leaders of the Palang Dharma Party, including Prommin Lertsuridej, Chaturon Chaisang, Prapat Panyachatraksa, Surapong Suebwonglee, Somkid Jatusripitak, Surakiart Sathirathai, and Sudarat Keyuraphan. Traditional regional power brokers also flocked to his government.\n\nHowever, his government was increasingly accused of dictatorship, demagogy, corruption, conflicts of interest, human rights offences, acting undiplomatically, using legal loopholes and displaying hostility towards a free press. A highly controversial leader, he has also been the target of numerous allegations of lèse majesté, treason, usurping religious and royal authority, selling assets to international investors, and religious desecration.\n\nThaksin's government designed its policies to appeal to the rural majority, initiating programs like village-managed microcredit development funds, low-interest agricultural loans, direct injections of cash into village development funds (the SML scheme), infrastructure development, and the One Tambon One Product (OTOP) rural small and medium enterprise development program.\n\nThaksin's economic policies helped Thailand recover from the 1997 Asian financial crisis and substantially reduce poverty. GDP grew from 4.9 trillion baht in 2001 to 7.1 trillion baht in 2006. Thailand repaid its debts to the International Monetary Fund two years ahead of schedule.\n\nIncome in the northeast, the poorest part of the country, rose by 46% from 2001 to 2006. Nationwide poverty fell from 21.3% to 11.3%. Thailand's Gini coefficient, a measure of income inequality, fell from .525 in 2000 to .499 in 2004 (it had risen from 1996 to 2000) ). The Stock Exchange of Thailand outperformed other markets in the region. After facing fiscal deficits in 2001 and 2002, Thaksin balanced the national budget, producing comfortable fiscal surpluses for 2003 to 2005. Despite a massive program of infrastructure investments, a balanced budget was projected for 2007. Public sector debt fell from 57 per cent of GDP in January 2001 to 41 per cent in September 2006. Foreign exchange reserves doubled from US$30 billion in 2001 to US$64 billion in 2006.\n\nCritics say Thaksinomics is little more than a Keynesian-style economic stimulus policy re-branded. Others claimed that the policies got the rural poor \"hooked on Thaksin's hand-outs.\"\n\nThaksin helped legalise Thailand's massive underground lottery system numbers game (Thai: หวย) to be run by the Government Lottery Office. Lottery sales of approximately 70 billion baht (US$2 billion) were used for social projects, including the \"One District, One Scholarship\" program. The Thaksin government also privatised MCOT, a large television and radio broadcaster.\n\nAfter the 2006 coup, many of Thaksin's economic policies were ended, the OTOP program was rebranded, the Government Lottery Office's program was deemed illegal, and the government nationalised several media outlets and energy companies. However, economists from Thailand Development Research Institute (TDRI) published a report indicating that many of the populist policies had not boosted the economy and some were by coincidence.\n\nThaksin initiated two key healthcare policies: subsidised universal health care and low-cost universal access to anti-retroviral HIV medication (ARVs). Thaksin's 30-baht/visit universal healthcare program won the applause of the general public, but was criticised by many doctors and officials. Prior to the program's introduction, a large portion of the population had no health insurance and only limited access to healthcare. The program helped increase access to healthcare from 76% of the population to 96%. The program also increased workloads for health care employees, and caused many doctors to change to higher paying careers. It has also been criticised for being underfunded by the government. The program caused some hospitals to seek alternative sources of income, leading to a boom in medical tourism, with 1.3 million foreign patients earning Thailand THB33 billion (US$800 million) in 2005.\n\nPost-coup public health minister Mongkol Na Songkhla called the 30 baht program a \"marketing gimmick\" and claimed that the government would \"very soon\" stop charging patients any fees for visits to state hospitals. Many people who received the treatment claimed that they prefer drugs from pharmacists than from facilities covered by the scheme and almost half of the patients were dissatisfied with the service given by the facilities. The universal health care scheme raised a debt of 7.7 billion baht.\n\nDuring the Thaksin government, the number of people living with HIV/AIDS as well as the overall prevalence rate noticeably declined. Although successful in expanding access to HIV medication, there have been concerns that a free trade agreement with the US could endanger Thailand's ability to produce generic HIV treatments. Thaksin allowed the estimated 2.3 million migrant workers in Thailand to register and seek health coverage under the Thai national healthcare system. They were also eligible for work permits at the end of the registration period, entitling them to full labour protection. Democrat Party Labour Group Committee Pongsak Plengsaeng criticised the move, claiming that it would lead to unemployment amongst Thais.\n\nThaksin initiated several highly controversial policies to counter a perceived boom in the Thai drug market, particularly in methamphetamine. Earlier policies like border blocking (most methamphetamine is produced in Myanmar), education, sports, and promoting peer pressure had proved ineffective. In a 4 December 2002 speech on the eve of his birthday, King Bhumibol noted the rise in drug use and called for a \"War on Drugs.\" Privy Councillor Phichit Kunlawanit called on the government to use its majority in parliament to establish a special court to deal with drug dealers, stating that \"if we execute 60,000 the land will rise and our descendants will escape bad karma\".\n\nOn 14 January 2003, Thaksin launched a campaign to rid \"every square inch of the country\" of drugs in three months. It consisted of changing the punishment policy for drug addicts, setting provincial arrest and seizure targets including \"blacklists\", awarding government officials for achieving targets and threatening punishment for those who failed to make the quota, targeting dealers, and \"ruthless\" implementation. In the first three months, Human Rights Watch reports that 2,275 people were killed, almost double the number normally killed in drug-related violence. The government claimed that only around 50 of the deaths were at the hands of the police, the rest being drug traffickers who were being silenced by their dealers and their dealers' dealers. Human rights critics claimed a large number were extrajudicially executed. The government went out of its way to publicise the campaign, through daily announcements of arrest, seizure, and death statistics.\n\nAccording to the Narcotics Control Board, the policy was effective in reducing drug consumption, especially in schools, by increasing the market price.\n\nKing Bhumibol, in a 2003 birthday speech, praised Thaksin and criticised those who counted only dead drug dealers while ignoring deaths caused by drugs.\n\nBhumibol also asked the commander of the police to investigate the killings. Police Commander Sant Sarutanond reopened investigations into the deaths, and again claimed that few of the deaths were at the hands of the police.\n\nThe war on drugs was widely criticised by the international community. Thaksin requested that the UN Commission on Human Rights send a special envoy to evaluate the situation, but said in an interview, \"The United Nations is not my father. I am not worried about any UN visit to Thailand on this issue.\"\n\nAfter the 2006 coup, the military junta appointed a committee to investigate the anti-drug campaign. Former Attorney General Kanit Na Nakorn led the committee. Concerning the committee's results \"The Economist\" reported in January 2008: \"Over half of those killed in 2003 had no links to the drugs trade. The panel blamed the violence on a government 'shoot-to-kill' policy based on flawed blacklists. But far from leading to the prosecutions of those involved, its findings have been buried. The outgoing interim prime minister, Surayud Chulanont, took office vowing to right Mr Thaksin's wrongs. Yet this week he said there was insufficient evidence to take legal action over the killings. It is easy to see why the tide has turned. Sunai Phasuk, a researcher for Human Rights Watch, a lobbying group, says that the panel's original report named the politicians who egged on the gunmen. But after the PPP won last month's elections, those names were omitted.\"\n\nWhile he was opposition leader, Abhisit Vejjajiva accused Thaksin of crimes against humanity for his alleged role in the campaign. After being appointed Prime Minister, Abhisit opened an investigation into the killings, claiming that a successful probe could lead to prosecution by the International Criminal Court. Former attorney-general Kampee Kaewcharoen led the investigation and the investigation committee was approved by Abhisit's Cabinet. Abhisit denied that the probe was politically motivated. Witnesses and victims were urged to report to the Department of Special Investigation, which operated directly under Abhisit's control. As of the August 2011 parliamentary elections, Abhisit's investigation failed to find or publicise any conclusive evidence linking Thaksin or members of his Government to any extrajudicial killings.\n\nOne of Thaksin's educational reforms was school decentralisation, as mandated by the 1997 Constitution. It was to delegate school management from the over-centralized and bureaucratised Ministry of Education to Tambon Administrative Organizations (TAOs), but met with massive widespread opposition from Thailand's 700,000 teachers, who would be deprived of their status as civil servants. Teachers also feared that TAOs lacked the ability to manage schools. In the face of massive teacher protests and several threats of school closure, Thaksin compromised and gave teachers whose schools were transferred to TAO management two years to transfer to other schools.\n\nOther intended policy changes included learning reform and related curricular decentralisation, mostly through greater use of holistic education and less use of rote learning.\n\nTo increase access to universities by lower income people, Thaksin initiated the Student Loan Fund (SLF) and Income Contingency Loan (ICL) programs. He initiated the ICL program to increase access to higher education, whereby needy students could secure a loan to support their studies from vocational to university levels. Thai banks had traditionally not given educational loans. The ICL, however, required recipients to start repayments when their salaries reached 16,000 baht a month, with interest equivalent to inflation from the day the loan was granted. The SLF had an eligibility limit on family income, but interest was 1 per cent starting a year after graduation. The programs were merged and the income limit modified after Thaksin's government was overthrown.\n\nThaksin was one of the first supporters of Nicholas Negroponte's One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) project, with the Thai Ministry of Education committing to purchase 600,000 units. The junta later cancelled the project.\n\nThaksin also initiated the controversial \"One District, One Dream School\" project, aimed at developing the quality of schools to ensure that every district had at least one high-quality school. It was criticised, with claims that the only beneficiaries were Thaksin and companies selling computers and educational equipment. Many schools fell deeply into debt in implementing the project, receiving inadequate financial support from the central government.\n\nIn addition, he altered the state university entrance system, which had relied exclusively on nationally standardised exams. Thaksin pushed for greater weighting of senior high-school grades in the hope of focusing students on classroom learning rather than private entrance exam tutoring.\n\nIn energy policy, the Thaksin government continued the Chuan Leekpai government's privatisation agenda, but with important changes. Whereas the Chuan government's post-Asian financial crisis policies sought economic efficiency through industry fragmentation and wholesale power pool competition, Thaksin's policies aimed to create national champions that could reliably support stronger economic growth and become important players in regional energy markets. Thaksin also initiated a policy to encourage renewable energy and energy conservation. Many Thaksin-era energy policies were reversed following the 2006 coup.\n\nA resurgence in violence began in 2001 in the three southernmost provinces of Thailand with their Muslim, ethnic Malay majority. There is much controversy about the causes of this escalation. Attacks after 2001 concentrated on police, the military, and schools, but civilians (including Buddhist monks) are also regular targets. Thaksin was widely criticised for his management of the situation.\n\nOf three key controversial incidents, the first was the Army's storming of the Krue Se Mosque, where protesters had holed up and were killed.\n\nThe second, in October 2004, was the killing of 84 Muslim demonstrators at Tak Bai, when the Army broke up a peaceful protest. Hundreds of detainees were forced at gunpoint to lie shackled and prone in Army trucks, stacked like cordwood. The trucks were delayed from moving to the detainment area for hours. The 84 victims were reported to have been asphyxiated, crushed or died of overheating. The precise nature and cause of death have been subject to controversy and doubt because of lack of transparency and absence of depth in investigations made. There are other reports of many more deaths but these have not been substantiated.\n\nIn a third incident, Muslim lawyer Somchai Neelapaijit disappeared, allegedly abducted and killed by police for his role in defending alleged insurgents who claimed to have been tortured. Despite witness testimony and forensic evidence during the court of police investigations and court trials, all allegations against police said to be involved were dropped and the enforced disappearance case closed.\n\nThaksin announced an escalation of military and police activity in the region. In July 2005, Thaksin enacted an Emergency Decree to manage the three troubled provinces. Several human rights organisations expressed their concerns that the decree might be used to violate civil liberties.\n\nIn March 2005, Thaksin established the National Reconciliation Commission, chaired by former Prime Minister Anand Panyarachun to oversee efforts to bring peace to the troubled South. In its final report in June 2006, the commission proposed introducing elements of Islamic law and making Pattani-Malay (Yawi) an official language in the region along with Thai. The Thaksin administration assigned a government committee to study the report, but nothing came of it.\n\nThaksin blamed Malaysia's jungle that has occasionally been used to train Islamic militants to cause violence in the south and Indonesia for being an inspiration to the militants.\n\nOne of the most visible of Thaksin's administrative reforms was the restructuring of government department and ministries, labelled the \"big bang.\" It was hailed as a \"historic breakthrough\" and \"the first major reorganization of ministries since King Chulalongkorn set up Thailand's modern system of departmental government in 1897.\" Plans had been studied for years to loosen perceived rigidities and inertia of the old system but were not implemented until the Thaksin government.\n\nThe restructuring was designed to streamline the bureaucracy and focus it on performance and results. New ministries were carved out in Social and Human Security Development, Tourism and Sports, Natural Resources and Environment, Information and Communication Technology, and Culture.\n\nThaksin transformed the role of provincial governors to that of active policy managers. Historically, central government ministries operated in the provinces through field offices headed by senior officials who reported back to Bangkok, while the Interior Ministry appointed provincial governors whose role was largely ceremonial.\n\nA key component of Thaksin's administrative reform policy, the \"CEO-governors\" epitomised what was called his \"transformation of the operating style of the traditional bureaucracy into a more results-oriented instrument that would be responsive.\" Piloted in 2001 and introduced in all provinces in October 2003, CEO-governors were put in charge of planning and co-ordinating provincial development and became accountable for overall provincial affairs. The \"CEO governors\" were assisted by \"provincial CFOs\" from the Ministry of Finance who reported directly to each governor. Governors were authorised to raise funds by issuing bonds and were given an intensive training course. After the coup, the junta reverted the role of governors.\n\nThe Thaksin era also saw the opening of a number of government one-stop service centres to reduce red tape for anything from investment to utilities and ID-card processing.\n\nThaksin initiated negotiations for several free trade agreements with China, Australia, Bahrain, India, and the US. The latter especially was criticised, with claims that high-cost Thai industries could be wiped out.\n\nThailand joined the US-led invasion of Iraq, sending a 423-strong humanitarian contingent. It withdrew its troops on 10 September 2004. Two Thai soldiers died in Iraq in an insurgent attack.\n\nThaksin announced that Thailand would forsake foreign aid, and work with donor countries to assist in the development of neighbours in the Greater Mekong Sub-region.\n\nThaksin was repeatedly attacked for acting undiplomatically with foreign leaders and the international community. Besides his famous swipe at the UN (see The 'war on drugs' above), there were also allegations of gaffes at international meetings.\n\nThaksin was keen to position Thailand as a regional leader, initiating various development projects in poorer neighbouring countries like Laos. More controversially, he established close, friendly ties with the Burmese dictatorship, including extending the impoverished country a 4 billion baht credit line so it could conclude a satellite telecom deal with his family business.\n\nThaksin energetically supported his former foreign minister Surakiart Sathirathai's somewhat improbable campaign to become UN Secretary General.\n\nDespite debate and long abandonment of the plan due to the stability of the ground for the location of the airport, the Thaksin government pushed to complete the construction of the new Suvarnabhumi International Airport. The airport was officially opened a week after Thaksin's government was overthrown. It is one of the world's largest airports.\n\nHowever, some members of Thaksin's government were accused of corruption in the Suvarnabhumi Airport project. These allegations were used by the military junta to justify the 2006 coup. The junta initiated several investigations into the airport. Nevertheless, investigative panels found that damage to the airport was \"minute\" and \"common.\" The cost of repairing the damage was estimated at less than 1% of the total airport cost. The junta was accused by its opponents of delaying airport repairs and intensifying the airport's problems to pin further blame on the Thaksin government. \n\nThaksin was accused of \"policy corruption\", such as infrastructure and liberalisation policies that, while legal and a potential benefit to society, also aided companies that were owned by his family members. Supannee Chai-amporn and Sirinthip Arun-rue of the National Institute of Development Administration claimed that policy corruption caused the state to spend nearly 30 per cent more than it otherwise should have spent, costing the state an additional 400 billion baht. Other examples cited were the Board of Investment's granting tax breaks worth a total of THB16.4 billion to Shin Satellite for its iPSTAR project in 2003, and the Transport Ministry's decision the same year to abolish the minimum air fare of THB3.8 /km when Shin Corp was about to enter into a joint venture with low-cost carrier AirAsia to open a Thai subsidiary.\n\nAfter the 2006 coup, the military junta-appointed Assets Examination Committee froze Thaksin's assets based on charges of policy corruption.\n\nThaksin denied the allegations. \"They just made up a beautiful term to use against me. There's no such thing in this government. Our policies only serve the interests of the majority of the people\", he said. From 2002 to 2006, the stock price of Shin Corp increased from 38 to 104 baht (an increase of 173 per cent) while the stock price of Shin Satellite fell. In the same period, the Stock Exchange of Thailand index rose 161 per cent, and the price of other major SET blue chip companies increased vastly more. Industry deregulation caused the market share of AIS to fall from 68 per cent to 53 per cent.\n\nTransparency International reported that Thailand's reputation for transparency among business executives improved somewhat during the years of the Thaksin government. In 2001, Thailand's Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) was 3.2 (ranked 61), whilst in 2005, the CPI was 3.8 (ranked 59).\nHowever, a study of Worldwide Governance Indicators by the World Bank gave Thailand a lower score on Control of Corruption during 2002–2005 under Thaksin when compared to the Democrat-led government of 1998–2000.\nIn 2008 Thaksin Shinawatra was sentenced to two years' imprisonment in absentia over a corrupt land deal. In a ruling that made him the first Thai politician to be convicted of corruption committed while prime minister, Thaksin was found to have violated conflict of interest rules in helping his wife buy land from a state agency at a reduced price.\n\nImmediately after the events in March 2010, Abhisit Vejjajivas stated that he would talk to the red shirt leadership, but not to Thaksin. He criticised Thaksin's wealth and extravagance, carving a contrast between the alleged opulence of the premier's house and the humbler, agrarian roots of many of the demonstrators. Shortly after, he also directly condemned his opponent's self-proclaimed affinity with the ordinary people, the \"phrai\", arguing that Thaksin was far closer to the \"ammart\", or the traditional elites in Thailand's army, bureaucracy, and political parties.\n\nThaksin's government was accused of exerting political influence in its crackdown on unlicensed community radio stations, and Thaksin brought massive defamation suits against critical journalists.\n\nThaksin was also accused of interference when the Senate appointed Wisut Montriwat (former Deputy Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance) to the position of Auditor General, replacing Jaruvan Maintaka.\n\nThaksin has been engaged in a series of lawsuits brought by American businessman William L. Monson regarding Thaksin's takeover of a cable-television joint venture the two partnered in during the 1980s.\n\nUnder the slogans \"Four Years of RepairFour years of Reconstruction\" and \"Building Opportunities\", Thaksin and the TRT won landslide victories in February 2005 elections, sweeping 374 out of 500 seats in Parliament. The election had the highest voter turnout in Thai history. But his second term was soon beset by protests, with claims that he presided over a \"parliamentary dictatorship.\"\n\nThe political crisis was catalysed by several accusations published by media mogul and popular talk show host Sondhi Limthongkul, a former Thaksin supporter who had broken with him. These included accusations that Thaksin:\n\nOn 23 January 2006, the Shinawatra family sold their entire stake in Shin Corporation to Temasek Holdings. The Shinawatra and Damapong families netted about 73 billion baht (about US$1.88 billion) tax-free from the sale, using a regulation that made individuals who sell shares on the stock exchange exempt from capital gains tax. Thaksin was the target of accusations of corruption for selling forbidden national assets such as national utility company to a foreign entity in exchange for personal profits and kickbacks. Thai laws at the time disallowed the sale of integral assets of national importance to the public or to any foreign entity, but Thaksin amended the laws to allow such sale.\n\nThaksin faced pressure to resign following the Shin Corp. sale.\n\nProtests, led by the People's Alliance for Democracy (PAD) whose leaders included Chamlong and Sondhi, soon swelled to tens of thousands who occupied the area around Government House in Bangkok. They consisted of both working-class and middle-class Bangkokians and included prominent social figures, academics and students.\n\nThaksin announced a House dissolution on 24 February 2006. General elections were scheduled for 2 April.\n\nThaksin was attacked for calling the snap elections, which in effect prevented any member of parliament from changing parties. In an editorial, \"The Nation\" noted it \"fails to take into consideration a major fallacy of the concept [of democracy], particularly in a less-developed democracy like ours, in which the impoverished, poorly informed masses are easily manipulated by people of his ilk. And Thaksin's manipulation has been well documented.\"\n\nThaksin's TRT Party won the widely boycotted elections, gaining 462 seats in Parliament, with the ratio of voters to no-voters 16:10, not counting non-voters.\n\nHowever, by-elections were needed for 40 TRT candidates who failed to win the minimum 20% required by the 1997 Constitution in an uncontested seat. The Democrat Party refused to contest them and, along with the PAD, petitioned the Central Administrative Court to cancel them. Chamlong Srimuang declared that the PAD would ignore the elections and \"go on rallying until Thaksin resigns and Thailand gets a royally appointed prime minister\".\n\nThey were held on 25 April and resulted in the TRT winning 25 of the constituencies and losing 2. Yet another round of by-elections on 29 April was scheduled for 13 constituencies. The Thai Rak Thai Party was later accused and found guilty of paying smaller parties to contest the election to fulfill the 20% rule, while the Democrat Party was accused of paying smaller parties not to. The by-elections were suspended by the Constitution Court while it deliberated whether to annul the main elections. In press interviews in exile, Thaksin was to insist on his technical majority.\n\nOn 8 May 2006, the Constitutional Court ruled 8–6 to invalidate the April elections based on the awkward positioning of voting booths. The ruling was called a landmark case in \"judicial activism.\" The Democrat Party, which had boycotted the April elections, said they were now ready to contest an October election.\n\nA new election was ordered and later set for 15 October. The Court found the Election Commissioners guilty of malfeasance and jailed them. But the election was cancelled when the military seized power on 19 September.\n\nThaksin announced on 4 April 2006 that he would not accept the post of Prime Minister after Parliament reconvened, but would continue as Caretaker Prime Minister until then.\n\nHe then delegated his functions to Caretaker Deputy Prime Minister Chidchai Wannasathit, moved out of Government House, and went on vacation.\n\nIn the evening of 19 September 2006, while Thaksin was visiting New York City to attend a UN summit and speak at the Council on Foreign Relations, the army took control of Bangkok. At Government House, some 50 soldiers ordered approximately 220 policemen in the complex to lay down their weapons. Troops also surrounded the Thaicom satellite receiving station and state-run television station Channel 11. By the morning of 20 September, tanks and military vehicles armed with machine guns were stationed at Government House, the Royal Plaza and government units along Rajdamnoen Avenue.\n\nTroops participating in the coup were from the 1st and 3rd Army Regions, the Internal Security Operations Command, the Special Warfare Centre and Army units in Nakhon Ratchasima and Prachin Buri provinces and sections of the Navy. According to coup leader Army Commander General Sonthi Boonyaratglin, the coup leaders had arrested Deputy Prime Minister Chitchai Wannasathit and Defense Minister Thammarak Isaragura na Ayuthaya.\n\nThe military, originally calling itself the Council for Democratic Reform under the Constitutional Monarch (CDRM), issued a statement citing the government's alleged \"lèse majesté\", corruption, interference with state agencies, and creation of social divisions as reasons for the coup. It declared the king of Thailand the head of state, and said elections would be held soon to return democracy to the country. Thaksin later arrived in Britain, where he had family.\n\nMany Thai Rak Thai party members were reported to have resigned from the party in the aftermath of the coup for fear that the party would be dissolved by the junta and its members banned from politics. These included Somsak Thepsuthin and 100 members of the Wang Nam Yen faction. It was not clear whether Suriya Jungrungreangkit, another influential member of the faction, would also resign. Sontaya Kunplome was reported to have led 20 members of the Chonburi faction in resigning from the party.\n\nOn 2 October 2006 Thaksin and his former deputy Somkid Jatusipitak resigned from the TRT. Chaturon Chaisang took over as party head.\n\nThe TRT was finally dissolved on 30 May 2007 by the Constitutional Tribunal, which banned over 100 of its executives, including Thaksin, from politics for five years, based on charges that two party executives (Defense Minister Thammarak and Pongsak Raktapongpaisarn) bribed a smaller party to stand in the April 2006 election. The Democrat party was cleared on a similar charge.\n\nOn 31 December 2006 and 1 January 2007, several bombs exploded in Bangkok, killing and wounding a number of bystanders. General Surayud accused \"those who lost power as a result of the military takeover\" of masterminding the bombings, but did not directly identify Thaksin. Thaksin went on CNN to publicly deny any involvement in the bombings. The government did not make any arrests in the case.\n\nThaksin's diplomatic passport was revoked on 31 December 2006 after the junta accused him of engaging in political activities while in exile. Thai embassies were ordered not to facilitate his travels.\n\nA junta-appointed Assets Examination Committee froze Thaksin's assets and attempted to bring charges against him. The AEC was criticised for being stacked with anti-Thaksin appointees. At one point, AEC Secretary Kaewsan Atibodhi claimed that \"evidence and witnesses are useless\", when an AEC panel recommended legal action without hearing 300 witnesses or considering 100 additional pieces of evidence. The AEC froze Thaksin's assets\n\nIn January 2007, Financial Institutions Development Fund complied with an Assets Examination Committee request to file a charge against Thaksin and his wife over their purchase of four 772 million baht plots of land from the FIDF in 2003. The charge was based on alleged violation of Article 100 of the National Counter Corruption Act, which prohibits government officials and their spouses from entering into or having interests in contracts made with state agencies under their authority.\n\nThe Assets Examination Committee also accused Thaksin of issuing an unlawful cabinet resolution approving the spending of state funds to buy rubber saplings.\n\nIn March 2007, the Office of the Attorney-General charged Thaksin's wife and brother-in-law with conspiring to evade taxes of 546 million baht (US$15.6 million) in a 1997 transfer of Shin Corp shares.\n\nThe Assets Examination Committee found Thaksin guilty of malfeasance for obstructing competition by imposing an excise tax on telecom operators. Thaksin's Cabinet had approved the relevant executive decree in 2003.\n\nAs prime minister, Thaksin had unsuccessfully sought to buy the English Premier League football clubs Fulham and later Liverpool, in what critics claimed was a publicity stunt in response to his political problems.\n\nOn 21 June 2007, now out of office, he bought Premier League club Manchester City for £81.6 million. He became briefly popular with fans (who nicknamed him 'Frank'), especially after appointing Sven-Göran Eriksson manager of the club and bringing in prominent players. Eriksson was later critical of Thaksin's running of the club, saying \"he [Thaksin] didn't understand football – he hadn't a clue.\" He sold the club to investors from Abu Dhabi United Group in September 2008 for a reported £200 million.\n\nAfter selling Manchester City Football Club, Thaksin was nominated as \"honorary president\" but does not have any administrative responsibilities. However, he was later dismissed from honorary club president after the club has decided to take a position against him following his conviction and is currently \"on the run\" from Thai authorities.\n\nIn May 2007, Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont said Thaksin was free to return to Thailand, and he would personally guarantee Thaksin's safety. In January 2008 Thaksin's wife Potjaman was arrested on arrival in Bangkok but released on bail after appearing at the Supreme Court, with orders not to leave the country. She was set to be tried for alleged violation of stock-trading and land sale laws.\n\nOn 28 February 2008, Thaksin arrived in Bangkok after 17 months in exile. Thaksin again stated he would not re-enter politics and wished to focus on his football interests. In March Thaksin pleaded not guilty before the Supreme Court in one of his two criminal corruption cases. He was ordered to report back on 11 April after the court granted a month-long trip to England.\n\nIn June the Supreme Court denied Thaksin's request to travel to China and Britain, since his corruption case was set for trial and was ordered to surrender his passport after arraignment. In July the Court assumed jurisdiction over the fourth corruption charge against Thaksin concerning the soft loans to Burma. The court also agreed to hear allegations that Thaksin, his former cabinet, and three members of the current government, broke anti-gambling laws by setting up the new state lottery in 2003.\n\nPotjaman was found guilty on 31 July and sentenced to three years imprisonment, but released on bail. The Bangkok Criminal Court also convicted her adopted brother Bhanapot Damapong and her secretary, who allegedly held assets for Thaksin by proxy, of tax evasion.\n\nOn 10 August 2008, Thaksin and Potjaman violated the bail term by attending the 2008 Summer Olympics Opening Ceremony in Beijing. Stating that he wishes to return to Thailand but claimed it was not currently safe for him and his family. Thaksin wishes to seek political asylum in the United Kingdom, claiming his political enemies were interfering with the judiciary, however there is no evidence to suggest he proceeded with this request and his asylum case was neither approved nor declined.\n\nThe Thailand Supreme Court's Criminal Division for Holders of Political Positions issued a second arrest warrant on 16 September 2008 against Thaksin over another of the four pending corruption cases and ordered suspension of the trial. Several more arrest warrants were issued over subsequent no-shows at various corruption trials.\n\nOn 21 October 2008, the Supreme Court's Criminal Division for Holders of Political Positions ruled that Thaksin, while prime minister, abused his power to help his wife buy public land at auction, and sentenced him to two years in jail.\n\nSoon after, Thaksin told Reuters, \"I have been informed of the result. I had long anticipated that it would turn out this way\", and added that the case was politically motivated.\n\nChief prosecutor Seksan Bangsombun called on Britain to extradite him. Thaksin now denied he was seeking political asylum in Britain.\n\nOn 10 November 2008, a Philippine spokesman said his government would \"politely\" turn down any request for political refuge from Thaksin due to Manila's \"friendly\" relations with Bangkok.\n\nThe British Government Home Office, meanwhile, revoked Potjaman and Thaksin's visas due to their convictions, while the Bangkok British Embassy e-mailed airlines directing them to disallow either of them to board flights to Britain. In late 2008, \"Arabian Business\" reported after an exclusive interview that the UK froze $4.2 billion of his assets in the UK. However, the UK government has not confirmed or denied this claim.\n\nThaksin had reportedly considered sanctuaries such as China, the Bahamas, Nicaragua, and several other countries in South America and Africa. Reports said the Shinawatras were granted honorary citizenship by the Bahamas and Nicaragua, and were building a £5.5 million home in China. As of late May 2009, he reportedly remained in Dubai. A spokesman claimed Thaksin was travelling on six passports, none of them Thai. In December 2008 Thaksin obtained a residency permit for Germany which was subsequently withdrawn on 28 May 2009 when the German government became aware of the arrangement. Thaksin then obtained status as a diplomat of Nicaragua. Guido Westerwelle, German foreign minister, lifted the travel restriction banning Thaksin from entering Germany on 15 July 2011 after the election victory of Thaksin's proxy party.\n\nIn a November 2009 interview, Thaksin told \"The Times\" that he was living in Dubai, still had access to about $100 million of his money outside of Thailand, and was investing in gold mines, diamond polishing and lottery licenses in various countries.\n\nIn mid-April 2009, violent protests of mostly Thaksin-supporters calling themselves the National United Front of Democracy Against Dictatorship (UDD) led to the cancellation of the ASEAN summit in Pattaya and declaration of a state of emergency in Bangkok. Thaksin had been giving enthusiastic encouragement at UDD rallies via satellite and phone-in link, at one point calling for a \"people's revolution\", following the suppression of the protests he claimed to have merely been offering \"moral support.\"\n\nThaksin supported protests by the UDD against the Abhisit Vejjajiva government, demanding Thaksin be allowed to return free from all the earlier corruption charges. Thaksin denied leading the UDD, claiming he only gave them \"moral support.\"\n\nIn April 2009, Privy Councilor General Pichitr Kullavanijaya reported he had been informed by former US ambassador to Thailand Ralph L. Boyce that Thaksin had laundered 100 billion baht (US$2.8 billion) through Cayman Island bank accounts to organise the anti-government protests.\n\nOn 4 November 2009, it was announced that Thaksin Shinawatra had been appointed a special advisor to the Cambodian government and Hun Sen and stated that Cambodia would refuse to extradite Thaksin because it considered him a victim of political persecution.\n\nOn 5 November 2009, both countries recalled their ambassadors.\n\nThai Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva stated this was \"the first diplomatic retaliation measure\". Stating Cambodia was interfering in Thailand's internal affairs and as a result all bi-lateral co-operation agreements would be reviewed. Sok An, a member of the Council of Ministers and Deputy Prime Minister of Cambodia, said Thaksin's appointment is a decision internal to Cambodia and \"conforms to international practice\". The mutual withdrawal of ambassadors is the most severe diplomatic action to have occurred between the two countries.\n\nOn 11 November 2009, Sivarak Chutipong was arrested by Cambodian police for passing the confidential flight plans of Thaksin and Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen to Kamrob Palawatwichai, First Secretary of the Royal Thai Embassy in Cambodia. Sivarak was a Thai engineer working in Cambodia for Cambodia Air Traffic Service, the private firm which manages air traffic control in Cambodia. Sivarak denied that he was a spy, and the Thai government claimed that he was innocent and that the incident was a Thaksin/Cambodian plot to further damage relations between the two countries. The Thai First Secretary was expelled from Cambodia. Sivarak demanded that former First Secretary Kamrob speak out and restore his damaged reputation by confirming he was not involved in a spy ring. Kamrob refused to provide comment to the press throughout the controversy, and Kasit's secretary, Chavanond Intarakomalyasut, insisted that although that there was no misconduct on the part of the First Secretary or Sivarak, there would be no statement from Kamrob. Sivarak's mother appeared often on Thai television, pleading for the government to assist her son.\n\nSivarak was later sentenced to jail for 7 years. Thaksin personally requested the Cambodian government to pardon Sivarak, and he was soon pardoned by King Norodom Sihamoni and expatriated. Deputy Prime Minister Suthep Thaugsuban later accused Sivarak of staging his own arrest in order to discredit the Abhisit government. Former Thai spy chief and Foreign Minister Prasong Soonsiri concurred, claiming, \"It has been a set-up from the beginning.\n\nOn 26 February 2010, the Supreme Court was scheduled to render its verdict on whether to seize his family's Thai assets, worth 76 billion baht frozen by the AEC after the coup. The AEC froze the assets under the authority of Announcement No. 30 of the military junta. Tensions ran high through Thailand, tens of thousands of government security forces were deployed, particularly in routes leading to Bangkok. However, the UDD denied that it would rally on the date of the verdict. The nine Supreme Court judges had to make a judgment on accusations of abnormal wealth through policy corruption. Policy corruption, was defined by the court as the abuse of powers by implementing economic policies that, while in themselves legal and of potential benefit to society and the economy, also aided companies that were owned in part by the policy maker. The prosecution claimed that Thaksin abused his powers five times while Premier.\n\nThe court first ruled that Thaksin and Potjaman were the real owners of the assets, rather than his children and relatives. The court also ruled that it had the authority to seize assets, based on the announcements of the junta. The court found Thaksin guilty of four out of five policy corruption, and ordered that 46 billion baht be seized. The remaining 30 billion continued to remain frozen.\n\nThe judges decided to seize 46 billion differences in value of Shin Corp. shares from the date when he came to office and the value when the shares were sold to Singapore's Temasek Holdings in early 2006. Note that, Thaksin had declared around 500 million baht in assets and Pojaman had 8 billion to 9 billion baht while Thaksin served as prime minister. Nevertheless, during that period, Shin shares gained 121%, compared with a 128% gain in the benchmark SET index, while Siam Cement, one of Thailand's premier blue chip companies, gained 717%. The judges did not find that Thaksin was guilty of malfeasance. They also noted that any benefit to the government from Thaksin's policies was irrelevant to the ruling. The government reaped approximately 100 billion baht in increased revenue from changes in the concession agreements alone.\n\nIn an email to his supporters, Thaksin claimed that the court was used as a tool. He also noted how the Thai stock market rose to the benefit of many companies, not just his, and claimed that all charges against him were politically motivated. He thanked his supporters for not protesting while the verdict was being read, and implored them to use non-violent means in the future. Pojaman na Pombejra insisted that tens of billions of baht of her wealth had been given to her children and relatives well before Thaksin took office in 2001 and denied that her children and relatives were nominees of her and her husband. She also denied having any control over Ample Rich and Win Mark, two firms that the AEC had accused of being her nominees. In spite of Pojaman's claim, Thaksin was the authorised signature for Ample Rich through 2005, making him the only individual authorised to withdraw funds from the company's account until he transferred the authority to his children, four years after he took office in 2001.\nSome UDD members held a small protest in front of the court, but did not disrupt the ruling as the government had predicted they would. The UDD leaders announced that a large-scale protest was scheduled to be held on 14 March 2010.\n\nOn the evening of 27 February (Saturday of a 3-day holiday), M67 grenades were thrown from a motorcycle outside three branches of Bangkok Bank. Nobody was hurt or injured in the attacks. The perpetrators were not caught, and no organisation claimed responsibility for the attacks. Thaksin and the UDD were quick to deny any involvement. An arrest warrant was issued based on sketches of a motorcycle driver.\n\nThe laws does not allow the prime minister to run a side business while holding office. Thaksin was pressed charged on wealth concealment while in office.\nPrior to the wealth declaration of Thaksin and his family when he took office, there has been an appeal to The National Anti-Corruption Commission that there are some suspicions about the numbers in the report.\n\nThaksin was charged with illegally concealing billions of baht of his wealth by transferring ownership of Shin Corp. shares to his drivers and maids, without their knowledge. Thaksin tearfully told the Constitutional Court that it was an honest mistake before the Court acquitted him on the charges.\n\nThere was also a controversy over whether there was any hidden tax evasion when Thaksin and Potjaman transferred their Shin Corporation shares to their children. Panthongtae and Pinthongta Shinawatra were accused of being nominees of their parent.\n\nThe transfer of shares from Thaksin and Potjaman to Parnthongtae was claimed to have been a sham, since there was no actual transfer of money. Panthongtae said the shares were sold to him at cost. Thaksin stated he had a written agreement proving the transfer to his son. Prior to the transfer, Panthongtae had signed an agreement with his father to settle a 4.5 billion baht debt from buying 300 million shares of the Thai Military Bank (TMB). However, the actual market value of the TMB shares at that time was only 1.5 billion baht. This showed a \"fake debt\" of 3 billion baht had been created. The Assets Examination Committee (AEC) discovered that Panthongtae's account that receives Shin Corporation's dividend has been used to transfer money to Potjaman's account to the amount of 1.1 billion baht.\n\nPintongtha also was accused of being nominee for her parents. She said that the money from her mother was a \"birthday present\". This birthday present was used to buy 367 million shares of Shin Corporation, which leaves her brother with the same amount. The AEC found the account has been receiving dividends from Shin Corp. There were no transactions between Pintongtha's account and her mother's account. However, the dividend money was used to buy SC Asset shares from WinMark to the amount of 71 million baht and shares from 5 real-estate firms from 2 funds in 2004 worth of 485 million baht.\n\nDSI, AEC, and Securities and Exchange Commission discovered that both WinMark and the two funds are owned by Thaksin and his former wife.\n\nThaksin has received the following royal decorations in the Honours System of Thailand:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40949193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40949193", "title": "Treaty on the Creation of the USSR", "text": "Treaty on the Creation of the USSR\n\nThe Treaty on the Creation of the USSR officially created the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), commonly known as the Soviet Union. It \"de jure\" legalised a union of several Soviet republics that had existed since 1919 and created a new centralised federal government (Congress of Soviets of the Soviet Union and Central Executive Committee of the Soviet Union (TsIK) were the legislative while Council of People's Commissars was the executive) where key functions were centralised in Moscow.\n\nThe Treaty along with the Declaration of the Creation of the USSR was approved on December 29, 1922 by a conference of delegations from the Russian SFSR, the Transcaucasian SFSR, the Ukrainian SSR and the Byelorussian SSR. The Treaty and the Declaration were confirmed by the 1st Congress of Soviets of the USSR and signed by heads of delegations Mikhail Kalinin, Mikhail Tskhakaya, Mikhail Frunze and Grigory Petrovsky, Aleksandr Chervyakov respectively on December 30, 1922. The treaty provided flexibility to admit new members. Therefore, by 1940 the Soviet Union grew from the founding four republics to 15 republics.\n\nOn 8 December 1991, Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian Presidents signed the Belavezha Accords. The agreement declared dissolution of the USSR by its founder states (denunciation of the Treaty on the Creation of the USSR) and established the CIS. On 10 December, the accord was ratified by the Ukrainian and Belarusian parliaments. On 12 December, the agreement was ratified by the Russian Parliament, therefore the Russian SFSR renounced the Treaty on the Creation of the USSR and de facto declared Russia's independence from the USSR.\n\nOn 26 December 1991, the USSR was self-dissolved by the \"Council of the Republics\" of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union, the first house of Soviet legislature (the second house, the \"Council of the Union\", was without a quorum).\n\nThe Treaty was a result of many internal political conflicts within the Bolshevik Party and governments inside the Union. Initially Vladimir Lenin did not see that Russia's October Revolution would end all foreign borders as such. This view was supported by Leon Trotsky and his followers, who believed that Russia was only a first step in a future world revolution. However, as the Red Army approached former internal national and foreign borders, it needed an excuse to cross them. One such method was a creation of an alternative government, a Soviet Republic, that would then take over authority as the Red Army ousted the existing government. This was the case with Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan and failed campaigns such as in the Baltic States and Poland. Alternatively it would use the presence of a minority to undermine the standing army (such as the establishment Tatar and Bashkir autonomies), and where there was no national minority, a government based on geographical locale – Far Eastern Republic, Turkestan.\n\nHowever, the Red Army's ultimate failure in the Polish campaign placed Trotsky's World Revolution plans on hold. Simultaneously the growing figure of Joseph Stalin pursued a different agenda. Lenin himself saw the creation of national republics as a permanent feature in line with his \"korenizatsiya\" policies. In spring of 1922, Lenin suffered his first stroke, and Stalin, still being a People's Commissar for Nationalities gained a new official chair as the General Secretary of the Communist Party.\n\nStalin argued that now that the Russian Civil War had concluded and that war communism was now replaced by the New Economic Policy, it required a country whose legal \"de jure\" framework would match its \"de facto\" one, and re-organising the Bolshevik state into a single sovereign entity. This included liquidating the many splinter Soviet governments and restoring supreme rule to Moscow.\n\nThis line went directly in conflict with both proponents of \"korenizatsiya\" and some of the local governments, most notably in Ukraine (opposition of Christian Rakovsky) and Georgia (Georgian Affair). Thus the treaty can be viewed as a compromise between the different groups within the Bolshevik camp, to satisfy the aspirations of large minorities (the named examples of Georgia and Ukraine) and to allow for potential expansion, as well. Byelorussia was the smallest republic, yet its official languages included Polish and Yiddish in addition to Russian and Belarusian to undermine the authority of the neighbouring Second Polish Republic and to use its sizeable Jewish minority, as well as the Belarusians and Ukrainians in Poland as a future fifth column. At the same time, it created a new centralised federal government where key functions would clearly be in the hands of Moscow.\n\n\nThe original document included a cover sheet, the declaration, the treaty (containing the preface and 26 articles) and the signatures of the delegations that signed it.\n\nIn the cover sheet, the title \"Union of Soviet Socialist Republics\" was typed in Russian, French, English and German, as well as the actual words \"Treaty on the Formation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics\" also in those four languages. It contained the original state emblem of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe declaration was written as a reflection on contemporary international relations and why the treaty was necessary. According to the narrative, there are now two distinct camps, an \"exploiting\" capitalist with colonialism, chauvinism and social and ethnic inequalities and a \"free\" socialist one with mutual trust, peace and international cooperation and solidarity. The former sought to destroy the latter, but because of the common good that the latter is based on, the former has failed.\n\nThe declaration goes on and lists three factors as to why this Union is a necessary step. First of all, the aftermath of the Civil War left many of the republics' economies destroyed, and rebuilding in the new socialist fashion is proving difficult without closer economic cooperation. Secondly, foreign threats continue to loom over the socialist camp, and its sovereignty requires an alliance for defence. Finally, the ideological factor, that the Soviet rule is internationalist in nature and pushes the working masses to unite in a single socialist family. These three factors justify in uniting in a single state that would guarantee prosperity, security and development.\n\nFinally the declaration then specifies that the resultant Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is one that is created on free will of the peoples, that its purpose follows the ideals of the October Revolution, that each and every socialist republic has the right to join and leave the Union at its own will, and hinting at the Soviet foreign policy of socialist irredentism (see World revolution), finishes stating that the treaty \"...will serve a decisive step on the path of unification of all workers into a \"World Socialist Soviet Republic\".\"\n\nFollowing the declaration, is the treaty itself consisting of a preface and 26 articles.\n\n\nInitially, the treaty did little to alter the major political spectrum. Most of the governing positions of the RSFSR's supreme organs were automatically transferred to the USSR's. For example, the Chairman of the All-Union Central Executive Committee (TsIK) was taken by Mikhail Kalinin, who would retain his chair as Russia's TsIK. Likewise, Lenin's position as chairman of RSFSR's Council of People's Commissars (SNK), which he held since the Revolution, would now to be transformed as the Chairman of the Union's SNK. However, as Lenin remained ill from the stroke, both of his chairs would be occupied by Alexei Rykov as acting head of the government.\n\nJoseph Stalin's position as General Secretary of the Communist Party was also unchanged. However, the Party's position was. Prior to the treaty the Russian Communist Party (bolsheviks) (RKP(b)), had its own bureaus which oversaw the activities in distant regions (e.g. Turkestani bureau, Transcaucasian bureau, etc.). After the Treaty, the party was re-organized as the All-Union Communist Party (bolsheviks) (VKP(b) – V for Vsesoyuznaya, the All-Union). Whilst the Republic's parties remained, Russia's party not only retained its \"primus inter pares\" position but officially took over as a supreme authority in the USSR.\n\nOne area where the Soviet division of power was not resolved at the time of the Treaty's signing, was Soviet Central Asia which contained several problems. A major battleground during the Russian Civil War, the region would remain unstable afterward. Turkestan came under Russian control fairly recently, between 1867 and 1885. Moreover, unlike other ethnic borders of the former Russian Empire, which were delimited during the Tsarist days (e.g. Transcaucasia lost its feudal administration by the mid-19th century), the Soviet authorities inherited two provinces that were \"de jure\" never part of Russia proper, the Emirate of Bukhara and the Khanate of Khiva. During the Russian Civil War, these too shared the fate of the other republics, but even here their special status was preserved, and they were established as the Bukharan and Khorezm \"People's\" Soviet Republics. Despite Mikhail Frunze's victories, the conflict was ongoing and whole provinces were under control of the Basmachi movement in 1922.\n\nTo settle this issue, in line with the \"korenizatsiya\" policy a massive programme of national delimitation in Central Asia was undertaken. On October 27, 1924, TsIK issued a decree where the former Bukharan, Khivan People's Republics as well as the RSFSR's Turkestan were re-organized as the Uzbek SSR and the Turkmen SSR, both of whom became full Union Republics on 13 May 1925. The borders of the new republics matched the ethnic ones, and Uzbekistan initially also contained a newly formed Tajik Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, which would be elevated to a full Union Republic on October 16, 1929, becoming the Tajik SSR.\n\nIn January 1924, the Second Congress of Soviets of the Soviet Union, that was called in accordance to the Treaty ratified the first 1924 Soviet Constitution. The Constitution's text is essentially the re-written and expanded Treaty. It even contains the same Declaration. Whereas the Treaty contained 26 articles, the Constitution is split into eleven chapters containing 72 articles.\n\nSome experts argue that the original \"Union\" of Soviet Socialist Republics, ceased to exist as such, upon the adoption of the 1936 Soviet Constitution on 5 December 1936 which greatly altered the internal arrangement and re-organised the USSR from a Union-based confederation, into a proper federal country. Instead of the Congress of Soviets, the new Constitution created a permanent parliament, the Supreme Soviet. It also tied together most of the authorities and most significantly affirmed the role of the Communist Party as the \"driving force\" behind the USSR's working masses.\n\nWith regard to the original Treaty, the adoption of the Constitution re-organised the make-up of the Union. The Transcaucasian SFSR ceased to exist and the three republics that made it up were fully admitted to the Union. Simultaneously two of RSFSR's autonomies, the Kazak and the Kirghiz ASSRs were re-organised as full republics. Therefore, the seven became the eleven.\n\nThe Transcaucasian SFSR existed until December 5, 1936, when it was broken into Armenian, Georgian and Azerbaijani SSRs. The same day Turkestan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic of the RSFSR ceased to exist, and its territory was divided between the new Kazakh and Kirghiz SSRs.\n\nIn a prelude to World War II, several new republics were created prior to the German invasion of USSR in 1941. The first was the Karelo-Finnish SSR, which on 31 March 1940 was elevated to a union republic from the Karelian ASSR, previously part of the RSFSR.\n\nAfter the annexation of Baltic states, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia were transformed into the Lithuanian SSR (July 13), Latvian SSR (July 21) and Estonian SSR (also July 21), and were formally adjoined to the Soviet Union on 3, 5 and 6 August respectively. The final republic was the Moldovian SSR that merged the large territory of Bessarabia with the Moldovian ASSR previously part of the Ukrainian SSR.\n\nAfter World War II, no new republics were established, instead, the Karello-Finnish SSR was downgraded into an autonomous republic and re-annexed by the RSFSR on July 16, 1956.\n\nOn December 8, 1991, the leaders of the Ukrainian and Belorussian SSRs, and the RSFSR met to agree on the annulment of the 1922 treaty, which was terminated on December 25, 1991, effectively dissolving the USSR.\n\nOn March 15, 1996, the State Duma of the Russian Federation expressed its legal position in relation to the decision of the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR in \"The denunciation of the Treaty establishing the Soviet Union\" as the wrongful, unconstitutional act passed by a grave violation of the Constitution of the RSFSR, the norms of international law and then in force legislation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51463927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51463927", "title": "Union Peace Conference - 21st Century Panglong", "text": "Union Peace Conference - 21st Century Panglong\n\nThe Union Peace Conference - 21st Century Panglong () was a peace conference held from 31 August to 4 September 2016 at the Myanmar Convention Centre 2 in Naypyidaw, Myanmar (Burma).\n\nThe first Panglong Conference was held in the Panglong region of British Burma in 1947, and was negotiated between Aung San and ethnic leaders. Despite several meetings between ethnic insurgent groups and the government prior to the Panglong Conference in 2016, it is unclear how many of them will actually attend.\n\nEighteen ethnic insurgent groups were expected to attend the conference, whilst three ethnic insurgent groups (The Arakan Army, the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army, and the Ta'ang National Liberation Army) were not expected to attend. Ban Ki-moon, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, also attended the opening ceremony. The United Wa State Army left the conference early, saying they were only permitted observer status. The government planned to hold similar conferences semiannually until a permanent ceasefire and peace agreement was drafted; however, only signatories of the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) would be able to attend (though this requirement was later scrapped).\n\nThe conference was chaired by Lt. Gen. Yar Pyae from the Tatmadaw, Tin Myo Win from the union government, Shila Nan Taung from the parliament, Khun Myint Tun from the ethnic armed organisations (EAOs) and Myint Soe from the political parties. The EAOs called for a federal system that \"guarantees justice, equality, self-administration and protection of racial, religious and political rights of ethnic minorities.\"\n\nOn 15 October 2016, the Burmese government announced their \"Seven Steps Roadmap for National Reconciliation and Union Peace\". The goals are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34366992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34366992", "title": "United Kingdom government austerity programme", "text": "United Kingdom government austerity programme\n\nThe United Kingdom government austerity programme is a fiscal policy adopted in the early 21st century following the Great Recession. It is a deficit reduction programme consisting of sustained reductions in public spending and tax rises, intended to reduce the government budget deficit and the role of the welfare state in the United Kingdom. The National Health Service and education have been \"ringfenced\" and protected from direct spending cuts. The effects of United Kingdom austerity policies have proved controversial and the policies have received criticism from a variety of politicians and economists. Anti-austerity movements have been formed among citizens more generally.\n\nA UK government budget surplus in 2001–2 was followed by many years of budget deficit and after the financial crisis of 2007–2008 a period of economic recession began in the country. The first austerity measures were introduced in late 2008. In 2009, the term \"age of austerity\", which had previously been used to describe the years immediately following World War II, was popularised by Conservative Party leader David Cameron. In his keynote speech to the Conservative Party forum in Cheltenham on 26 April 2009 he declared that \"the age of irresponsibility is giving way to the age of austerity\" and committed to end years of what he characterised as excessive government spending. The austerity programme was initiated in 2010 by the Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government. In his June 2010 budget speech, the Chancellor George Osborne identified two goals. The first was that the structural current budget deficit would be eliminated to \"achieve [a] cyclically-adjusted current balance by the end of the rolling, five-year forecast period\". The second was that national debt as a percentage of GDP would be falling. The government intended to achieve both of its goals through substantial reductions in public expenditure. This was to be achieved by a combination of public spending reductions and tax increases amounting to £110 billion. The end of the forecast period was 2015–16.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2013, the Coalition government said that it had reduced public spending by £14.3 billion compared with 2009–10. Growth remained low during this period, while unemployment rose. In a speech in 2013, David Cameron indicated that his government had no intention of increasing public spending once the structural deficit had been eliminated and proposed that the public spending reduction be made permanent. In 2014, the Treasury extended the proposed austerity period until at least 2018. By 2015, the deficit, as a percentage of GDP, had been reduced to half of what it was in 2010, and the sale of government assets (mostly the shares of banks nationalised in the 2000s) had resulted in government debt as a proportion of GDP falling. By 2016, the Chancellor was aiming to deliver a budget surplus by 2020, but following the result of the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, 2016, he expressed the opinion that this goal was no longer achievable.\n\nOsborne's successor as Chancellor, Philip Hammond, retained the aim of a balanced budget but abandoned plans to eliminate the deficit by 2020. In Hammond's first Autumn statement in 2016, there was no mention of austerity, and some commentators concluded that the austerity programme had ended. However, in February 2017, Hammond proposed departmental budget reductions of up to 6% for the year 2019–20, and Hammond's 2017 budget continued government policies of freezing working-age benefits. Following the 2017 snap general election, Hammond confirmed in a speech at Mansion House that the austerity programme would be continued and Michael Fallon, the Secretary of State for Defence, commented: \"we all understand that austerity is never over until we've cleared the deficit\". Government spending reductions planned for the period 2017–2020 are consistent with some departments, such as the Department for Work and Pensions and the Ministry of Justice, experiencing funding reductions of approximately 40% in real terms over the decade 2010–2020. During 2017 an overall budget surplus on day-to-day spending was achieved for the first time since 2001. This fulfilled one of the fiscal targets set by George Osborne in 2010, which he had hoped to achieve in 2015.\n\nIn 2018 the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) predicted that in 2018–19 public sector debt would fall as a share of national income for the first time since 2001–02, while tax revenues would exceed public spending. Hammond's 2018 Spring Statement suggested that austerity measures could be reduced in the Autumn Budget of that year. However, according to the Resolution Foundation and the Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS), the OBR's forecasts for borrowing and debt were based on the assumption that the government continued with the planned spending reductions that were announced after the 2015 general election. By 2018 only 25% of the proposed reductions in welfare spending had been implemented. The Resolution Foundation calculated that the proposed reduction in spending on working-age benefits amounted to £2.5 billion in 2018–19 and £2.7 billion in 2019–20, with the households most affected being the poorest 20%. The IFS calculated that the OBR's figures would require spending on public services per person in real terms to be 2% lower in 2022–23 than in 2019–20.\n\nThe deficit in the first quarter of the 2018–19 financial year was lower than at any time since 2007 and by August 2018 it had reached the lowest level since 2002–3. Hammond's aim at this time was to eliminate the deficit entirely by the mid-2020s. At the Conservative Party conference in October 2018 Prime Minister Theresa May indicated her intention to end the austerity programme following Brexit in 2019 and opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn said that austerity could not be ended without significant increases in public spending. The IFS calculated that funding an end to austerity would require an additional £19 billion per year raised through higher government borrowing or tax increases. Hammond's preference was to reduce the national debt with more years of austerity but in the October 2018 budget he agreed to defer the target date for eliminating the deficit, abandoning plans to achieve a surplus in 2022–23 to allow an increase in health spending and tax cuts. The Resolution Foundation described the step as a \"significant easing of austerity\". Hammond said that the \"era of austerity is finally coming to an end\" but that there would be no \"real terms\" increase in public spending apart from on the NHS.\n\nThe austerity programme included reductions in welfare spending, the cancellation of school building programs, reductions in local government funding, and an increase in VAT. A number of quangos were abolished, merged or reduced as a result of the 2010 UK quango reforms.\n\nA number of independent reports have considered the demographic effects of the austerity programme. In 2011, activist collective Feminist Fightback described its gendered impact and in 2012 the Fawcett Society published a report which was critical of the Treasury for not assessing the impact of austerity on women's equality. A 2015 report by the Resolution Foundation identified age-related disparities in the effects of austerity changes. The report projected that during the 2010s transfers to local authorities would fall by 64% and that spending on working-age welfare would fall by 71%, while between 1997 and 2020 spending on older people and health would rise from 33.8% to 43.4% of total government spending. In the same year a group of political scientists at the University of Nottingham found that the impact of austerity on in-work benefits and housing policy had been harmful to working families with children, while wealthy pensioners and older homeowners had benefited. In 2016 research from the Women's Budget Group and the Runnymede Trust indicated that women, people of colour and in particular women of colour had been affected most by austerity, and that they would continue to be affected disproportionately until 2020. This was due to the fact that black and Asian women were more likely to be employed in the public sector, be in low-paid jobs and insecure work, and experience higher levels of unemployment than other groups.\n\nResearch published in 2017 by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation identified an increase in child poverty and pensioner poverty compared to the previous year, following significant overall decreases during the previous 20 years. Reductions in benefit support and a shortage of affordable housing were considered to be contributing factors.\n\nResearchers have linked budget cuts and sanctions against benefit claimants to increasing use of food banks. In a twelve-month period from 2014 to 2015, over one million people in the United Kingdom had used a food bank, representing a \"19% year-on-year increase in food bank use\".\nA study published in the \"British Medical Journal\" in 2015 found that each one percentage point increase in the rate of Jobseeker's Allowance claimants sanctioned was associated with a 0.09 percentage point rise in food bank use. However, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development found that the number of people answering yes to the question \"Have there been times in the past 12 months when you did not have enough money to buy food that you or your family needed?\" decreased from 9.8% in 2007 to 8.1% in 2012, leading some to say that the rise was due to both more awareness of food banks, and the government allowing Jobcentres to refer people to food banks when they were hungry, in contrast to previous governments.\n\nWhen the coalition government came to power in 2010, capital investment in new affordable homes was cut by 60%, while government-imposed caps on local authority borrowing continued to restrict their ability to raise money to build new homes. Writing in \"Inside Housing\", former housing minister John Healey observed that rate of starting social rented schemes had declined from 40,000 in 2009/10 to less than 1,000 in 2015/16. The number of people sleeping rough on any one night across England had more than doubled between 2010 and 2016 to an estimated 4,134, according to a government street count.\n\nThe benefit cap, introduced via the Welfare Reform Act 2012, set a maximum level for the amount of state welfare benefits that could be paid to an individual household in any one year. The measure came into effect in 2013 with the figure initially set at £26,000 per year, close to the average income of a family in the UK at that time. The anticipated reduction in government expenditure as a result of the measure was £225 million by April 2015. The benefit cap initially affected approximately 12,000 households, mainly in high-rent areas of the UK such as London, but in 2016/17 the limit was reduced to £20,000 per annum (£23,000 in London) extending its effects to around 116,000 households across the UK. \n\nA Local Housing Allowance (LHA) policy restricting Housing Benefit for private sector tenants to cover a maximum number of rooms had been in place since 2008. It was extended in April 2013 to cover public housing in the United Kingdom (except Northern Ireland). The resulting under-occupancy penalty, commonly known as the \"bedroom tax\", affected an estimated 660,000 working age social housing tenants in the UK, reducing weekly incomes by £12–£22. Almost two thirds of the people affected by the penalty were disabled. The measure reduced the expenditure of the Department for Work and Pensions by approximately £500 million per year.\n\nFrom April 2016 the LHA rates used to calculate maximum housing benefit levels for private sector tenants were frozen for four years. Research by the housing charity Shelter indicated that the proportion of such tenants likely to experience a shortfall in housing benefit was 80%, amounting to 300,000 families. The degree of shortfall depends on dwelling, location and individual circumstances, but Shelter expected that by 2020 the shortfall could in some cases reach hundreds of pounds a month.\n\nIn April 2017, housing benefit payments were ended for new claims made by people aged 18–21. Research by Heriot-Watt University found that the policy would reduce annual government expenditure by £3.3 million.\n\nDuring the period of austerity, the rate of homelessness has rapidly increased. For example, during 2016 the rate of homelessness increased by 16%. By 2018 the number of families living in bed and breakfast accommodation was almost 50,000, and there were many more \"hidden homeless\" people living on the floors and sofas of friends and acquaintances. An article in The BMJ regarded this as a \"neon sign that something is fundamentally wrong\" with how society is being run, noting that \"homeless women die on average at 43 and homeless men at 47, compared with 77 for the rest of us\".\n\nDuring the period of austerity there have been reductions in UK Government funding for county councils in England. This has combined with an increasing demand for social care services to cause reductions in expenditure on other services such as public libraries, refuse collection, road maintenance and Sure Start, along with increases to council tax rates and the introduction of additional charges for county council services. Local authority subsidies to bus services were reduced by almost half between 2010 and 2018.\n\nResearch by the Local Government Chronicle has indicated that between 2010 and 2018 there were more than 220,000 redundancies of local authority employees and nearly £4 billion was spent on redundancy payments, excluding outsourcing contracts. Rob Whiteman of CIPFA commented that \"this scale of job losses reflects the intense financial pressure on councils as they now have no option other than to provide the bare minimum statutory provisions\". Analysis by the Local Government Association in 2018 identified a decrease in the Revenue Support Grant for local authorities in England from £9,927 million in 2015–16 to £2,284 million for 2019–20, leaving 168 authorities with no grant for 2019–20. UK government plans in 2018 proposed the phasing out of grants to local authorities in England, instead funding English local government through a combination of local business rates and council tax.\n\nResearch by the University of Cambridge published in 2018 said that the greatest reductions in local authority spending had occurred in impoverished post-industrial cities in the north of England and some poor Inner London boroughs. Over 30 such authorities in England had reduced spending by more than 30% between 2010 and 2017, with seven of them reducing spending by more than 40%. In contrast councils in wealthier areas had made smaller reductions. Councils in England experienced an average spending reduction of 24% compared to 12% in Scotland and 11.5% in Wales, the difference resulting from devolved government in those nations.\n\nIn 2018 Northamptonshire County Council become insolvent and proposed reducing services to the minimum required by law. Austerity measures were blamed for the insolvency, as was the council's refusal to raise council tax despite the rising costs of providing social services. At the time the National Audit Office said that up to 15 other local authorities were also at risk of insolvency. A survey of council leaders, chief executives and mayors conducted by the New Local Government Network indicated that more than 70% of respondents expected that they would be unable to provide non-statutory services beyond 2023 if funding remained as restricted as it had been since 2010.\n\nIn 2016, figures analysed by the King's Fund think tank showed that \"mental health trusts in England are still having their budgets cut, despite government assurances they would be funded on a par with physical healthcare\". The analysis \"suggests 40% of the 58 trusts saw budgets cut in 2015–16\".\n\nA 2016 report authored by the NatCen Social Research for UNISON shows that LGBT people have suffered from a lack of access to mental health services as a result of austerity.\n\nA 2015 report published by Psychologists for Social Change indicates that austerity has contributed significantly to the incidence and level of depression and other mental health conditions within the population.\n\nIn 2017, the Royal Society of Medicine said that government austerity decisions in health and social care were likely to have resulted in 30,000 deaths in England and Wales in 2015. Research by University College London published in BMJ Open in 2017 compared the figures for health and social care funding during the 2000s with that during the period 2010–2014. It found that annual growth in health funding during the 2000s was 3.8%, but after 2010 this dropped to 0.41%. Annual growth in social care funding of 2.2% during the 2000s became an annual decrease of 1.57% after 2010. This coincided with mortality rates decreasing by 0.77% annually during the 2000s but rising by 0.87% annually after 2010.\n\nThe rate of increase in life expectancy in England nearly halved between 2010 and 2017, according to research by epidemiology professor Michael Marmot. He commented that it was \"entirely possible\" that austerity was the cause and said: \"If we don't spend appropriately on social care, if we don't spend appropriately on health care, the quality of life will get worse for older people and maybe the length of life, too.\"\n\nA paper released by the British Medical Journal in November 2017 estimated that the government austerity programme caused around 120,000 excess deaths since 2010. By 2018 figures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) were showing a fall in life expectancy for those in poorer socioeconomic groups and those living in deprived areas, while average UK life expectancy had stopped improving. Public Health England was asked to carry out a review of life expectancy trends but government ministers said that the arguments put forward by some academics, that austerity had contributed to the change, could not be proved. ONS figures published in 2018 indicated that the slowdown in general life expectancy increase was one of the highest among a group of 20 of the world's leading economies.\n\nThere are approximately five million public sector workers in the UK. Between 2011 and 2013 there was a two-year pay freeze for all public sector workers earning an annual salary of £21,000 or more, which was expected to reduce public expenditure by £3.3 billion by 2014–15. In subsequent years a public sector pay cap resulted in annual public sector wage increases being effectively capped at 1% for 2013–2016, extended to 2020 in the 2015 budget. Advice was given to ministers by the civil service that the policy would result in a pay cut for many people in real terms and could increase child poverty.<ref name=guardian27/10/2018></ref> By 2015 the number of people employed in the Civil Service had been reduced to the lowest level since World War II and public sector employees made up 17.2% of the total workforce, the smallest proportion since comparable records began in 1999. During the 2017 general election the Conservative Party proposed retaining the cap until 2020, potentially reducing public sector expenditure by £5bn. A Labour Party amendment to the 2017 Queen's Speech proposing the removal of the cap was defeated. A 2017 report commissioned by the Office of Manpower Economics indicated that between 2005 and 2015 median hourly earnings fell by 3% in real terms for public sector workers whose salaries are set on the advice of pay review bodies (around 45% of public sector staff). In September 2017, the Scottish Government announced that it intended to end the public sector pay cap in Scotland from 2018, and shortly afterwards the UK government announced the ending of the cap in England and Wales. By autumn 2017 public sector pay had fallen behind private sector pay for comparable work.\n\nWorking-age social security payments such as Universal Credit, Child Benefit, Child Tax Credit and Working Tax Credit, Housing Benefit and Jobseeker's Allowance have had their rate of increase reduced by austerity. From 2013 onwards, these payments were limited to a maximum annual increase of 1% instead of being increased annually according to the rate of inflation. The policy of suspending the social security payments of unemployed claimants who were judged not to be adequately seeking work was continued, and the frequency and severity of the sanctions was increased. From 2016 a four-year freeze on all working-age social security payments was introduced. It was anticipated that it would affect 11 million UK families and reduce expenditure by £9 billion, a figure later increased to £13 billion. The Welfare Reform and Work Act 2016 abolished the Work-Related Activity Component of Employment and Support Allowance for new claimants from April 2017. This reduced the weekly social security payments for the disabled people affected by £29.05 a week (at 2017/18 rates). The reduction in government expenditure was initially forecast to be £640 million per annum by 2020/21, though this was later revised to £450 million.\n\nAnalysis in 2018 by the Resolution Foundation indicated that by April 2019 the freeze in social security payments would have resulted in more than 10 million households experiencing a loss of income in real terms, with the lack of an inflation-related increase in 2019 resulting in the average low-income couple with children losing an additional £210 per year. The analysis also said that the cumulative effect of these social security limitations had been to reduce the value of working-age benefits by more than 6% in real terms. Child Benefit had become worth less than it was in 1999 in real terms, and for a second child it was worth 14% less than when it was introduced in 1979.\n\nThe value of the State Pension has not been subject to austerity measures, being increased each year since 2011 by a minimum of 2.5% per annum. However, some people have been adversely affected financially in their 60s by the rise in the age at which the State Pension is first paid. The decision to equalise the State Pension ages of men and women was made by the government in 1995. From 2010 the women's State Pension age was steadily raised from 60 with the aim of matching that of men at 65 by 2018. An additional increase to 66 for both sexes is intended to be implemented by 2020. Research by the Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) in 2017 found that the household incomes of over one million women aged between 60 and 62 had become £32 a week lower on average, and that poverty rates among that group had risen. The IFS also calculated that the reduction in state expenditure combined with the additional tax income from women continuing to work in their 60s resulted in a net increase in state revenue of £5.1 billion per year.\n\nA rise in the State Pension age to 67 for both sexes in 2036 had been proposed by Gordon Brown in the 2000s, followed by a rise to 68 in 2046. By 2014 the date set for the rise to 67 had been brought forward to 2026 and in 2018 the rise to 68 was brought forward to 2037. This last change alone resulted in an anticipated reduction in DWP expenditure of £74bn by 2046–47.\n\nReductions in public expenditure in Northern Ireland have often been described as not as harsh as those for the UK as a whole. This is primarily due to the fact that the UK government has not been able to exert direct control over welfare expenditure in Northern Ireland, because welfare policy is a devolved matter for the Northern Ireland Assembly. On a number of occasions the Assembly has not agreed to cuts in public spending, effectively refusing to make them, despite pressure from the UK government. However, the UK government has sought to recoup the expected savings through a fine on Northern Ireland's block grant, which is calculated according to the Barnett formula, and which fell by 8% in real terms between 2010 and 2015. Research by Oxfam Ireland which was published in 2014 indicated said that austerity measures were affecting Northern Ireland disproportionately due to its being one of the UK's most disadvantaged regions with a high dependence on public spending. In 2017 the Conservative–DUP agreement resulted in an additional £1 billion of public sector funding for Northern Ireland over two years, with the money focused on the health, infrastructure and education budgets.\n\nDuring the early years of the austerity programme, many economists argued that the financial changes of the austerity programme should not be undertaken as extensively and as quickly as was done. Osborne, however, argued that without the implementation of the programme in the way that it was another financial crisis was likely.\n\nThe rationale behind the need for achieving a balanced budget in the financial climate following the Great Recession has been questioned by some Keynesian economists. Andrew Gamble writing in \"Parliamentary Affairs\" in 2015 commented:\n\nSome criticism has been based allegations of economic opportunism, with the government said to have made politically popular cuts rather than those necessary to achieve its long-term aims. Paul Mac Flynn wrote for the Nevin Economic Research Institute in 2015 that: Ben Chu, economics editor of \"The Independent\" newspaper, commented that: \"Austerity, as practiced by Osborne, was essentially a political choice rather than an economic necessity, and the human costs have been huge\".\n\nEconomists Alberto Alesina, Carlo A. Favero and Francesco Giavazzi, writing in \"Finance & Development\" in 2018, argued that deficit reduction policies based on spending cuts typically have almost no effect on output, and hence form a better route to achieving a reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio than raising taxes. The authors commented that the UK government austerity programme had resulted in growth that was higher than the European average and that the UK's economic performance had been much stronger than the International Monetary Fund had predicted.\n\nThe United Nations carried out an investigation in 2018 led by Philip Alston, the United Nations special rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, into the effect of austerity policies in the UK. Alston concluded that the austerity programme had breached UN human rights agreements relating to women, children, disabled people and economic and social rights.\n\nPeter Dominiczak (political editor at \"The Daily Telegraph\") wrote that because spending on the NHS and foreign aid is ring-fenced, \"other Whitehall departments will face savage cuts to their budgets\". However, some (such as Dr Louise Marshall in \"The Guardian\") have questioned whether the National Health Service (NHS) really is exempt from austerity measures.\n\nA YouGov poll in 2015 found that whilst 58% of those surveyed viewed austerity as \"necessary\", and 48% judged it to be good for economy (compared to 34% who thought it bad for the economy), 50% thought the programme was being carried out \"unfairly\".\n\nThe 2017 British Social Attitudes Survey found that 48% of those surveyed during the previous year wanted higher taxes to pay for more public spending, the first time since 2008 that more people wanted an increase in taxation and spending than opposed it, and the highest proportion to support such measures since 2004.\n\nAn April 2018 opinion poll by Number Cruncher Politics in the Financial Times found that 66% of British adults, including majorities of all major parties' supporters, thought austerity had \"gone too far\". A poll by Survation for the GMB trade union published in spring 2018 found that 62% of respondents wanted the 2018 spring budget to increase spending on public services in real terms, while 48% of those who had voted for the Conservative Party at the 2017 general election thought that austerity had been excessive.\n\nThe 2010 general election was contested by a Labour Party and a Conservative Party which had both committed themselves to austerity policies. Labour's then-Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling predicted that \"two parliaments of pain\" would be necessary to address the UK's budget deficit. The Institute for Fiscal Studies said that Labour's plans implied a cumulative decline of 11.9% in public spending over four years. This would reduce public expenditure by a total of £46 billion in inflation-adjusted terms, taking it from over 27% of the economy to below 21%, back to its level in the late-1990s. The IFS also said that there appeared to be only a modest difference between the plans put forward by the two main political parties. Neither party won a majority at that year's general election, resulting in a hung parliament with the Conservative Party forming a coalition government with the centrist Liberal Democrats.\n\nAt the end of the first full parliament under the austerity programme, the Labour Party and the Conservatives were deadlocked in the polls. At the 2015 general election, the Conservative Party modified their commitment to austerity with a series of unfunded spending promises, including £8 billion of additional expenditure for the NHS. At the same time, the 2015 Conservative Party general election manifesto proposed making sufficient reductions in public spending and welfare to eliminate the budget deficit entirely by 2018–19 and run a small budget surplus by 2020. The Labour Party's manifesto proposed the less rigorous objective of reducing the budget deficit every year with the aim of seeing debt as a share of GDP falling by 2020 and achieving a budget surplus \"as soon as possible\". This would render the spending reductions proposed by the Conservatives unnecessary, according to some analyses. The Conservative Party won the general election with an overall majority for the first time in 23 years, which was unexpected by most polls as they had predicted another hung parliament. Political commentator Patrick Wintour argued that one of the reasons for Labour's loss was its lack of clarity on the cause of the budget deficit. Anti-austerity protests followed the election result, but post-election polling for an independent review conducted by Campaign Company for Labour MP Jon Cruddas indicated that voters in England and Wales did not support an anti-austerity platform, concluding: \"the Tories did not win despite austerity, but because of it\".\n\nThe 2017 general election was held almost three years earlier than scheduled under the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 in an attempt to increase the Government's majority to facilitate the Brexit process. The Conservative Party manifesto pledged to eliminate the deficit by the \"middle of the next decade\", an aim which the Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) said would \"likely require more spending cuts or tax rises even beyond the end of the next parliament\". The Labour Party manifesto proposed increasing the Treasury's income by £49 billion per year as a result of taxation rises and increasing public expenditure \"to its highest sustained level in more than 30 years\". The IFS said that Labour's proposals \"could be expected to raise \"at most\" £40 billion\" and that Labour was planning to maintain a majority of the cuts to working-age benefits proposed by the Conservatives. As a result of the election, the Conservative Party lost their parliamentary majority, but remained in government as the largest single party in parliament. Gavin Barwell, Theresa May's Downing Street Chief of Staff, blamed anger over Brexit and austerity for the loss of seats. The Labour opposition announced a plan to challenge further austerity measures and vote against them in the House of Commons. A Labour spokesman said: \"We will be using the changed parliamentary arithmetic to drive home the fact that the Tory programme for five more years of austerity will not go on as before.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "53380942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53380942", "title": "World-Information.Org", "text": "World-Information.Org\n\nWorld-Information Institute (WII) is an independent cultural institution located in Vienna, Austria linking research and public discourse in the realms of innovation, digital culture technologies, and society. Its vast documentation and processing of digital media technologies sheds light on the future perspectives of global developments and involves complex and heterogeneous information resources.\n\nWorld-Information Institute forms part of an international network of partner institutions and experts in the fields of information and communication technologies and their social implications.\n\nWII’s main fields of research are a politics of the commons (and, from this perspective: problems of intellectual property regimes), new forms of cultural production, politics of search and organization of knowledge, surveillance technologies, big data and visualization, cultural and media policies. A recent example of an activity to further develop cultural and media policies is “Netzpolitischer Konvent” (Convention of the Austrian civil society on net politics), in which a catalogue of demands was drafted and subsequently presented to the public. \n\nWII's main projects include:\n\nWorld-Information.Org was launched as the main media project of the European Capital of Culture 2000 in Brussels. The social, cultural and political dimensions of the new information and communication technologies were discussed. The World-Information exhibition presented objects and research results on topics such as the history of modern communication technologies, the \"big players\" in the IT industry, financial networks or human rights. The program was completed by the \"World-InfoCon\" conference. Most resources are available on the world-information.org page.\nThe first presentation was followed by a series of conferences and exhibitions in Vienna (Technisches Museum Wien, 2000 ), Amsterdam (Oude Kerk and De Balie Centre for Culture and Politics, 2002 ), Novi Sad / Belgrade (Museum of Vojvodina, Museum of Contemporary Art, Belgrade, 2003 ), Bangalore (2005 ) and Paris (as part of the festival \"Futur en Seine\", 2009 ).\n\nThe \"Deep Search\" conference critically dealt with \"the social and political dimensions of how we navigate the deep seas of knowledge\". Critically analyzing a situation in which Google assumes a monopoly-like position in the field of search in many countries around the world, the conference asked questions as: „How is computer readable significance produced, how is meaning involved in machine communication? Where is the emancipatory potential of having access to such vast amounts of information? What are the dangers of our reliance on search engines? And are there any approaches that do not follow the currently dominating paradigm of Google?“ \n\nThis conference on the future of cultural freedom and cultural intelligence in digital theory and practice took place at the Austrian Cultural Forum New York. It followed attempts to go beyound the obsolete models of the artist/author as genius and searched for collective and collaborative practices that could invent new terrains and flows. New kinds of 'virtual' spaces and their role for critical cultural practices were discussed. The conference also aimed at developing strategies that could elude being instrumentalized by the creative industries in their „seemingly infinite appetite for things radical“. \n\nThe debate on the policies of searching continued 2010 with the conference \"Deep Search II\": \"The automatic classification of data, its indexing, and its evaluation are at the heart of new communication environments. What lies beneath is not just a drive to organize the world's information, but also to classify human relations: from the management of the modern workplace and consumers in mass societies, to the bio-political management of the network society.\"\n\nThe conference \"Shared Digital Futures\" dealt with the impact of digital networking technologies to the production of culture and examined about the new role of the artwork as the same end product and raw material for further production of culture, models for sustainable funding of Commons, new forms of collective authorship and the opportunities opened by the blurring of boundaries between artists and audiences.\n\nThe conference and exhibition \"Information as a reality\" in cooperation with the magazine and with Ars Electronica at the Lentos Art Museum in Linz dealt with critical cultural practices in digital networks and the increasing change of social reality by digital models and virtual information regimes. Cultural workers have played an important pioneering role in the colonization of digital worlds. What role can they assume now, 20 years after the emergence of the Internet?\n\nThe conference \"Digital Clouds and Urban Spaces\" at Architekturzentrum Wien focused on Smart Cities and the city as an information system where urbanity is increasingly shaped by networks of informational technologies. The conference took account to the fact, that this does not only apply to phenomena as traffic control systems or planning models, but that the world of work, social spaces and cultural processes are also subject to substantial transformations related to these developments. Before this backdrop, the conference questioned the simplistic promises made by global corporations and their technologies to render cities more efficient, safer and cleaner.\n\nIn a cooperation with the magazine World-Information Institute revisited 20 years of net culture. The resulting texts formed the main part of issue XXI/1 (winter 2015) of the magazine. Issue Presentation (MAK – Museum of Applied Arts, Vienna): Critical Net Practice: Information as a reality? Jumper / Band XXI, No. 1, Winter 2015.\n\nThe international conference and event series \"Algorithmic Regimes\" examined the growing influence of digital control systems and their cascading effects of powerful effect on cultural and social realities. In addition to the conference, the event „Algorithms are no Angels“ with Matthew Fuller und Graham Harwood, a Videointerview with Stefano Harney, and an audiovisual evening about the power of algorithms were conducted, that presented an annotated remix of film clips and documentaries, relating to automated control systems.\n\nWahlkabine.at was founded in 2002 by the Institute for New Culture Technologies/t0 and was presented for the first time during the National Council elections in the same year. The online polling-booth sees itself as an instrument of political education, which encourages the users to deal with political content in a playful way and provides factual information and feedback opportunities.\n\nGiven the fact that increasing personalization nowadays replaces more and more the political content, Wahlkabine.at considers the publication of all party-programs and their scientific contextualization as a fundamental tool for political participation as well as a revealing resource collection for personal reflection on the voting behavior.\n\nWahlkabine.at focuses on elections on Austrian national and regional levels and on EU-level (European Parliament), but also includes elections of the Austrian National Student Union and a few individual cases (e.g. Austrian Economic Chambers / Sector Information and Consulting 2010). In the context of regional elections in Vienna in autumn 2015 (with an electorate of approximately 1.14 million eligible voters) 160,000 users visited the online polling booth.\n\nFuture Non Stop – started as a project in 2010, online since 2012 – is an extensive archive and an experiment in logics of navigating information: “Based on an extensive archive going back to 1994 the site collects materials that serve as important reference documents in the field of new media, politics, and art and makes them accessible to a wider public. Instead of a hierarchically structured archive an experimental navigation interface opens up new ways to explore large information nodes. Documents are associated by a range of tag that allow to filter relevance according to topics and issue relations. ASCR, short for Advanced Semantic Content Repository, is the open source information architecture and \"editing back end\" of Future Non Stop.” \n\nThe Institute for New Culture Technologies/t0 was established in 1993 as an arts and culture related international competence platform for the critical use of information and communication technologies. Over the years it has pursued a broad range of transdisciplinary activities. From producing and hosting infrastructure to organizing conferences, festivals and exhibitions, local interventions and skill transfer, as well as international research and publishing. Konrad Becker and Francisco de Sousa Webber, who founded the institute, currently form the board of directors together with .\n\nWhen the founders of the Institute for New Culture Technologies/t0 set up a web server (in an unofficially tolerated act of ‘misuse’ of the underemployed Internet server of Vienna’s general hospital AKH) in 1993, they created one of the first arts and culture-related sites on the emerging World Wide Web.\n\nThe institute has been conceptualised as a platform from which independent initiatives and organizations could emerge. The first of these initiatives was Public Netbase – now an ‘historical example’ of an early new media organization in Europe. Founded in 1994, it was located in Messepalast, the predecessor of Vienna’s Museumsquartier. It combined various functions and activities: It was a non-profit Internet service provider that facilitated internet access mainly for the independent arts and cultural sector. This was accompanied by a program of workshops and courses to develop media competence. Public Netbase became a social space for this emerging scene of artists, techheads, activists etc., and ran an almost daily evening program of discussions, presentations, screenings and music events. In addition to these grassroots activities international exhibitions and conferences were conducted. Public Netbase used to be t0’s main initiative until it had to be discontinued due to lack of funding (which was a result of repression by the Austrian right-wing government in 2006.\n\nBut already in 1999 the next initiative had been founded: World-Information.Org (WIO). It was presented – under the patronage of UNESCO – as the lead project of the New-Media-program of the Brussels 2000 European Capital of Culture. WIO resembles an intelligence agency, that collects and analyses information, but not in the interest of a state or as a think tank for corporate businesses, but for the independent cultural sector. Starting from the Brussels project, a series of international exhibitions and conferences has been developed.\nWorld-Information Institute (WII) is WIO’s research department. In addition to conducting research, it continues the program of international conferences and the activities to further develop culture and media policies. In addition, on the Austrian national level, wahlkabine.at was founded in 2002 and became Austria’s most prominent online “polling booth”.\n\nSince 2010, Institute for New Culture Technologies/t0 has developed the ‘living archive’ Future Non Stop, in which all its activities are documented, which makes it a valuable resource covering twenty years of activities in new media art, net culture and participatory use and critical analyses of new technologies, digital networks and the World Wide Web.\n\nAcross all these activities, t0 has closely collaborated with groups and organizations such as Critical Art Ensemble, RTMark, The Yes Men, De Balie, Kuda.org, De Waag, Adbusters, Institute for Applied Autonomy, Sarai (Media Lab), Bundeszentrale für politische Bildung, V2 Institute for the Unstable Media, 0100101110101101.ORG and Nettime.\nArtists and researchers who have been involved in t0’s program, include Saskia Sassen, Bruno Latour, Peter Lamborn Wilson / Hakim Bey, Franco Bifo Berardi, Chantal Mouffe, Brian Holmes, Marko Peljhan, Ben Bagdikian, Marina Gržinić, Arundhati Roy, Manuel De Landa, Michel Bauwens, R. Trebor Scholz, Monica Narula (RAQS Media Collective), Monika Mokre, Femke Snelten and many others.\n\nPublic Netbase was initiated by the Institute for New Culture Technologies/t0 in the Vienna Museumsquartier in 1994 as a non-profit internet provider and a platform for the participatory use of information and communication technology. With its WWW-server as well as with its workshops, instruction courses, and educational events for the broad public, Public Netbase contributed continually to the evolution of a lively internet scene and a heightened consciousness for the implications of the new communication and information technologies.\n\nAs a focal point of European and international art, culture, and media networks, the Viennese net culture institute attempted to develop an understanding for the manifold opportunities and the potential of new communication media, but also to look critically at a society that is increasingly determined by technology.\n\nIn addition to the series of workshops and discussions the activities of Public Netbase included, among other, projects that combined exhibitions, conferences and workshops (e.g. Synworld playwork:hyperspace (1999) and Free Bitflows (2004)), projects in public space (nikeground (2003) and Basecamp (2001/2002)) and activities that strengthened self-organization of independent media initiatives and demanded further development of cultural and media policies (in Austria, but also on European level, e.g. European Cultural Backbone (1999-2003)). Public Netbase was very active in the resistance movements against the Austrian right-wing government, that came into power beginning of 2000 and included Jörg Haider’s Freedom Party (FPÖ). An own strand of activities derived from this (e.g. government-austria.at (2000/2001)) and elements of political activism became stronger across all strands of activities.\n\nFor a more extensive list of projects cf. the article on Public Netbase.\n\n\n"}
