{"id": "1611633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1611633", "title": "African Violet Society of America", "text": "African Violet Society of America\n\nThe African Violet Society of America is an international society of plant enthusiasts who promote the cultivation of African violets (\"Saintpaulia\" species and cultivars) as house plants. The Society hosts an annual convention and publishes a bi-monthly full-color 64-page magazine, the \"African Violet Magazine\".\n\nThe African Violet Society of America Inc. (AVSA) was organized on November 8, 1946, and incorporated on June 30, 1947. Since then it has grown to be the largest society devoted to a single indoor plant in the world. It is a 501(c)(3) charitable organization.\n\nThe purposes of AVSA are:\n\nAVSA membership, which includes both amateur and commercial growers, spans the globe. There are national groups in many countries of the world. The purposes of AVSA are carried out, in part, by a strong network of affiliate clubs, state and regional societies, councils of societies, and judges councils. The AVSA sponsors African violet shows staged at the AVSA conventions and by AVSA affiliates. In these shows, plants are merit-judged according to the appropriate AVSA scales of points by AVSA judges.\nAVSA is the International Cultivar Registration Authority for the genus Saintpaulia and its cultivars. This registry is available to the public with the purchase of updatable software. \n"}
{"id": "9936426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9936426", "title": "Ahmad Shah Khan, Crown Prince of Afghanistan", "text": "Ahmad Shah Khan, Crown Prince of Afghanistan\n\nAhmad Shah, Crown Prince of Afghanistan (Pashto: أحمد شاه خان , born 23 September 1934 in Arg-i-Shahi, Kabul) is the second son of Mohammed Zahir Shah, the former King of Afghanistan.\n\nAt the time of his birth he was second in the line of succession to the throne after his older brother Muhammed Akbar Khan, Crown Prince of Afghanistan. However following the death of his brother on 26 November 1942, he became first in the line of succession and the heir apparent and Crown Prince.\n\nHe attended Oxford University, the Institut d'études politiques de Paris and later spent time working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Kabul.\n\nHis father's reign ended on 17 July 1973, when he was ousted by a coup with Afghanistan being declared a republic. The Crown Prince was one of fourteen members of the royal family arrested following the coup. He was allowed to leave the country for Rome on 26 July. Following the overthrow of the monarchy, the Crown Prince settled in the state of Virginia, United States and took to writing poetry.\n\nSince the death of his father on 23 July 2007, he is the oldest surviving male heir of the last king of Afghanistan.\n\nUnlike his father, he does not possess the official title \"Baba-i-Millet-i-Afghanistan\" (Father of the Nation of Afghanistan).\n\nHe was married at Kabul in 1961 to Princess Khatul Begum the daughter of Sardar Muhammad Umar Khan Zikeria, by his wife, Princess Sultana Begum. He has two sons and one daughter:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30252007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30252007", "title": "Al-Mukhtar al-Qasim", "text": "Al-Mukhtar al-Qasim\n\nAl-Mukhtar al-Qasim (died 956) was an imam of the Zaidi state in Yemen, who held or claimed power from 936 to 956.\n\nAl-Qasim bin Ahmad was the eldest son of the imam an-Nasir Ahmad who died in 934. An-Nasir's death ushered into a period of internal political turbulence among the Zaidis of highland Yemen. His third son al-Muntakhab al-Hasan demanded the imamate, but the latter's elder brother al-Mukhtar al-Qasim lodged counterclaims. Al-Muntakhab died in 936. However, a younger brother called al-Mansur Yahya is recognized by Zaidi historiography as the legitimate successor of an-Nasir after 934; he was supported by the majority of the Zaidis after al-Muntakhab's death. In 956, al-Mukhtar al-Qasim, who ruled from his base in Sa'dah, was able to seize the important commercial and political centre San'a, which had hitherto mostly belonged to the rival Yu'firid Dynasty. However, before the year was over, al-Mukhtar was murdered by a powerful lord from Hamdan, Muhammad bin ad-Dahhak. With his death, San'a temporarily reverted to the Yafurids.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314898", "title": "Alice Barrows", "text": "Alice Barrows\n\nAlice Prentice Barrows (November 15, 1878 – October 2, 1954) was a secretary of Dr. William A. Wirt, who headed the U.S. Office of Education in the early days of the New Deal of President Franklin Roosevelt. Barrows had been a member of the Communist party since 1919, the same year she began working for the Office of Education. During World War II Barrows was the Executive Secretary of the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship.\n\nBorn in Lowell, Massachusetts, the daughter of Charles Dana Barrows and Marion Merrill, Alice graduated from Vassar College with an A.B. During 1901–03, she was employed as an English teacher at the Packer Collegiate Institute, then she taught English at the Ethical School in New York City from 1903–04. She became an English teacher at her alma mater until 1908 and was a graduate fellow of Columbia University. In 1909, Alice became a social investigator for the Russell Sage Foundation. Two years later in 1911, she was named director of the Vocational Education Survey.\n\nIn 1934, a Congressional Investigation was held to examine statements Dr. Wirt made regarding a meeting in Alice Barrows home a year earlier. The \"Wirt Incident\" was widely reported and provoked much controversy. Barrows and several other government employees revealed to Wirt they were members of the Communist party. Wirt testified,\n\nI was told they believe that by thwarting our then evident economic recovery, they would be able to prolong the country's destitution until they had demonstrated to the American people that the Government must operate business and commerce. By propaganda, they would destroy institutions making long term capital loans—and then push Uncle Sam into making these loans. Once Uncle Sam becomes our financier, he must also follow his money with control and management.\n\nWirt further testified they told him,\n\nWe believe we have Roosevelt in the middle of a swift stream, and that the current is so strong, that he cannot turn back or escape from it. We believe that we can keep Mr. Roosevelt there until we are ready to supplant him with a Stalin. We all think that Mr. Roosevelt is only the Kerensky of this revolution. We are on the inside. We can control the avenues of influence. We can make the President believe that he is making decisions for himself.\n\nA June 1945 Venona project decryption of the Washington, D.C. KGB Office to Moscow's Eighth Department, the political intelligence wing, relayed information on matters regarding President Truman and Attorney General Francis Biddle. KGB agent Charles Kramer, who served on the staff of several Senate Subcommittees, and Barrows are the sources of the information. Mary Van Kleek who headed the Russell Sage Foundation and also served on the Board of the National Council, visited Washington weekly to meet with Barrows and Nathan Gregory Silvermaster.\n\nThe organization Barrows served as Director was found in 1953 to be a Communist front organization by the Subversive Activities Control Board (SACB). In its Findings of Fact, the SACB said the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship, \nadvances positions...markedly pro-Soviet and...anti-United States Government...is a Communist-action organization which has as its primary purpose to advance the objectives of the world Communist movement under the hegemony of the Soviet Union; it has the policy to support and defend the Soviet Union under any and all circumstances...We conclude that the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship, Inc., is substantially directed, dominated, and controlled by the Communist Party of the United States...and is primarily operated for the purpose of giving aid and support to...the Soviet Union, a Communist foreign government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3092960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3092960", "title": "Bats people", "text": "Bats people\n\nThe Bats people () or the Batsbi (ბაცბი) are Nakh-speaking Tushetians in the country of Georgia. They are also known as the Ts’ova-Tush (წოვათუშები) after the Ts’ova Gorge in the historic Georgian mountain region of Tusheti. The group should not be confused with the neighbouring Kists – also a Nakh-speaking people, migrants from Chechnya – who live in the nearby Pankisi Gorge.\n\nPart of the community still retains its own Bats language, \"batsbur mott\", which has adopted many Georgian loan-words and grammatical rules and is mutually unintelligible with the two other Nakh languages, Chechen and Ingush. As Prof. Joanna Nichols put it, '[the Batsbur] language is related to Chechen and Ingush roughly as Czech is related to Russian [and the Batsbi] not belong to vai naakh nor their language to vai mott, though any speaker of Chechen or Ingush can immediately tell that the language is closely related and can understand some phrases of it. The Batsbi have not traditionally followed Vainakh customs or law, and they consider themselves Georgians.' Batsbur language is unwritten and the Batsbi have used Georgian as a language of literacy and trade for centuries.\n\nThe renowned Georgian ethnographer Sergi Makalatia wrote in his study of Tusheti that \"the Tsova-Tush speak their own language, which is related to Ingush and Kist. This language has, however, borrowed many words from Georgian; the Tsova-Tush speak it both at home and among each other. Everybody knows the Tsova language. It is shameful not to speak it. Children start speaking Tsova-Tush and learn Georgian later.\"\n\nNowadays, all Batsbi speak Georgian (usually with a Tushetian or Kakhetian accent). Only a handful speak Batsbur with any kind of proficiency.\n\nThe Batsbi have retained very little of their separate cultural traits, and their customs and traditions now resemble those of other Eastern Georgian mountaineers, particularly those of the Tush (obviously, but there are also deeper pagan-religious links between the Tush and the neighbouring Khevsur).\n\nThe origins of the Bats are not so clear, and there are various theories. As the Estonian scholar Ants Viires points out in his \"Red Book\", it is actually two separate disputes: the first being whether it was Nakh tribes or Old Georgians that inhabited Tusheti first, the second being from which (or both) the Bats are descended.\n\nSome scholars, such as Caucasus linguist Johanna Nichols, argue that the Batsbi crossed the Greater Caucasus range from Ingushetia in the seventeenth century and eventually settled in Tusheti, and that they are therefore a tribe of Ingush origin which was Christianized and \"Georgianized\" over the centuries.\n\nOthers hold that they are descended from ancient Nakh tribes inhabiting the region. Caucasus historian Amjad Jaimoukha argues that there was once a larger ethnic group in Kakheti called the \"Kakh\" in Old Georgian, who he believes called themselves \"Kabatsa\" and were \"Tushians of Nakh extraction\". Jaimoukha notes that according to an 18th-century Georgian historian named Vakhushti, the Kakh considered other confirmed Nakh peoples as their kin.\n\nAnother theory is that the Georgian name (Tsova-Tush) may be linked to the \"Tsov\", who were claimed by the Georgian historian Melikishvilli to have been Nakh and ruled over the Kingdom of Sophene in Urartu (called Tsobena in Georgian) who were apparently forcefully moved to the region around Erebuni, a region linked by some to Nakh peoples by place names and various historiography.\n\nAnts Viires also notes that there are theories involving the Bats being descended from Old Georgian tribes who adopted a Nakh language. According to this theory, the Batsbi are held to have originated from Georgian pagan tribes who fled the Christianization being implemented by the Georgian monarchy. A couple of these tribes are thought to have adopted a Nakh language as a result of contact with Nakh peoples.\n\nThe Batsbi's villages in the Ts'ova Gorge (\"Tsovata\") were Ts'aro, Shavts'qala, Nazarta, Nadirta, Mozarta, Indurta, Sagirta and Etelta. Each was inhabited by one or several extended families who believed they shared a common ancestor. In the early nineteenth century, following the destruction of two of their villages by landslides and an outbreak of the plague, the Batsbi abandoned their eight villages in the Ts'ova Gorge in western Tusheti and began to migrate down to the lowlands on the left bank of the Alazani river in western Kakheti.\n\nA significant proportion of the village's women work in Europe and in America, sending money home to the village. Many men still work as shepherds or cowherds, most of them wintering the animals in the Shiraki lowlands (south-eastern Georgia, on the border with neighbouring Azerbaijan) and then taking them up to summer pastures in Tusheti (a two- to three-week journey).\n\nAccording to a study written and published by Prof. Roland Topshishvili as part of the University of Frankfurt's ECLING project, the Batsbi only lived in temporary dwellings around Alvani in winter. In the summer, the men and their families would lead their flocks of sheep up to summer pastures around Tbatana and in Tsovata, returning to Alvani in the autumn.\n\nProf. Joanna Nichols also wrote about the migration of the Batsbi in her article on \"The Origin of the Chechen and Ingush\":\n\nBatsbi tradition as recorded by Desheriev (1953, 1963) preserves memory of a two-stage descent: first, abandonment of the original highland area in northern Tusheti, settling of villages lower in the mountains, and a period of transhumance plus permanent descents of a few families; then, complete abandonment of the highlands and year-round settlement in the lowlands after a flood destroyed one of the secondary mountain villages in the early nineteenth century. That is, Batsbi lowland outposts were established by a combination of transhumance and individual resettlements, and some time later there was a sizable migration into an established outpost.\n\nMost of the Batsbi currently live in the village of Zemo (\"Upper\") Alvani in the eastern Georgian province of Kakheti, close to the town of Akhmeta (at the mouth of the Pankisi Gorge). Around half of Zemo Alvani's c.7,000 inhabitants are of Bats origin.\n\nThe first reference to the Batsbi in European ethnographical literature is in the chapter on the Tush and Tusheti in Johannes Güldenstädt's \"Reisen durch Rußland und im Caucasischen Gebürge\" [\"Travels through Russia and in the Mountains of the Caucasus\"], published posthumously by Peter Simon Pallas between 1787 and 1791, although Güldenstädt does not mention them by name, merely pointing out instead that \"Kistian and Georgian are spoken equally in the 4 first-named villages [in the Ts'ova Gorge]. Their inhabitants could also more easily be descendants of the Kists than the other Tush\" [\"In den 4 erstgennanten Dörfern wird kistisch mit georgischen untermengt gesprochen. Die Einwohner können auch leicht mehr als die übrigen von Kisten gern abstammen.\"].\n\nFigures from the Russian imperial census of 1873 given in Dr. Gustav Radde's \"Die Chews'uren und ihr Land — ein monographischer Versuch untersucht im Sommer 1876\" include the Bats villages in the Ts'ova Gorge (dividing them into the \"Indurta\" and \"Sagirta\" communities):\n\n\n1873 TOTAL: 344 households, consisting of 785 men and 741 women, in all 1,526 souls.\n\nDr. Radde adds:\n'The members of [these two communities] have largely emigrated to the lowlands along the Alazani River, to the east of Akhmeta; they move up in summer to the rich pastures of Tbatana at the southern end of the Massara mountain range (see Itinerary), but still consider Indurta as their property and even leave 2-3 families living there in winter. [The Ts'ova Gorge is situated] By the north-western spring of the Tusheti Alazani River. [...] Together, these two communities made up the Ts'ova community until 1866.'\n\nConcerning the slow decline of Batsbur as a language, Prof. Topshishvili's writes:\n\n'In the scientific literature, especially in the Soviet Russian ethnographic science great attention was paid to the marriage facts of people of different languages. Russians were greatly interested in russification of the people living in the Russian empire to make them speak Russian. In the Soviet Russian ethnographic literature (I. Bromlei and others) it is emphasized that the problems rise in the languages of small groups when the percentage of their daughters-in-law of different languages exceeds 15-20%. In this case, the language gradually faces the danger. In such families the children do not speak their fathers’ languages (especially when there do not live grandmother and grandfather in the family). The children start speaking their mothers’ language from the very beginning and speak it afterwards.<br>\n<br>\n'In this view, we got interested in the situation of the Tsova-Tushs at their compact dwelling place in the village Zemo (Upper) Alvani. In the local village board 398 married couples are officially registered. As it turned out, in the last 10-12 years, the considerable part of the married couples, because of different reasons (financial-economic conditions, moving registration center from village to the region center), are not registered officially. It appeared that, from the 398 couples only 226 are Tsova-Tushs. i.e. 226 Tush men’s wives are also Tsova- Tushs. That makes 56-57%. The rest men’s wives are aliens. The most of the latter are the women speaking Tush dialect of Georgian. There are also many women from the different villages of Kakheti region. Several Russian, Kist, Ossethian and Armenian women were also recorded. Thus, the percentage of those women in the Tsova families not speaking the Tsova-Tush language is 43, 22%.<br>\n<br>\n'According to ethnographic data was proved that until the 60-70s of the XX century, the most of the Tsova-Tush (Batsbis) men entered into marriage with Tsova-Tush women. Though, even then were not rare the facts of marrying women speaking Tush dialect of the Georgian language. (Many of them were also studying the Tsova-Tush language. By the way, the Tsova-Tush women married to Georgian-speaking men, often taught their language to their children) But it does not exceed the considerable limit. The above mentioned conjugal relations lasted until the time when the marriage matter was a competence of the parents. Since the parents do not interfere in marriage matters of their children and the young people decide their fate independently, the most Tsova-Tush men often find their partners in other villages. All this reasoned in the dying-out of the Tsova-Tush (Batsb) language. Only 25-30 years ago existing bilingual situation is disappearing and the most part of the population uses Georgian as the usual language. The fact is that, the most Tsova-Tushs (Batsbis) consider this event as quite normal and only some of them are very sorry for that, especially the old people.<br>\n<br>\n'It is also a remarkable fact that in disappearance of the Tsova-Tush (Batsb) language, the role of human factor should be eliminated. The indifference towards the above matter could be explained by their Georgian consciousness. They are the organic part of the Georgian nation and do not differ from other Georgians with their traditions, customs and habits and mentality.'\n\n"}
{"id": "27606897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27606897", "title": "Bila language", "text": "Bila language\n\nBila, or Forest Bira, is a Bantu language spoken by the Mbuti Pygmies called Kango and Sua (Batchua). The other Mbuti speak Central Sudanic languages. The Kango and Sua speak distinct dialects (southern and northern), but not enough to impair mutual intelligibility with their farming Bila patrons.\n\nMaho (2009) lists Ibutu (Mbuttu, D.313) as a distinct language.\n\n"}
{"id": "7657376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7657376", "title": "Bodhivansha caste", "text": "Bodhivansha caste\n\nBodhi Vamsa or Bodhahara is a caste in Sri Lanka. It was also referred to as Panna Dura, Villi Dura, or simply the Dura caste during the colonial period. Originally, members were appointed as guardians of the Sri Maha Bodhi tree.\n\nThe caste traces its origin to the arrival of the Sri Maha Bodhi Tree in Sri Lanka. Dipavamsa, the earliest document of the history of Sri Lanka, states that the following persons came to the island with or associated with Sri Mahabodhi.\n\n\nThe Mahavamsa records state that during the reign of King Parakramabahu I, three \"lambakarnas\" (or mahalekha), were sent to southern India for a coronation festival. Accordingly, they are either descendents of Bodhiguptha, Chandragupta, eight kshatriyas or from the gotra lambakarnas. Mahavamsa itself contains a narrative of this incident which is less credible than Dipavamsa. It states that eighteen families of gods, eighteen families of ministers, eight families of Brahmins, eight families of kelembi etc. have been sent from India. However, only a certain \"eight situ families are specifically mentioned as Bodahara Caste\". According to later sources, these situ clans are Bodhiguptha, Chandragupta, Samudragupta, Sumitta, Devagupta, Sooryagupta, Dharmagupta, and Juthidara, relatives of King Dharmashoka. It was commonly believed that the members of this caste were descendants of this clan (in particular, Bodhiguptha), and are also connected to the \"lambakarnas\"\n\nMany Sinhalese royals prior to the Kandyan era claimed descent from the families that accompanied the Sri Maha Bodhi. For example, \"Kawyashekaraya\", a Kotte era literary source mentions:\n\nමහබෝ රකින ලෙස\nසැලසු බෝ කලක්‌ වැස\nඑමහ බෝ අබියස\nවිසූ කුලයන් මෙලක මුල් බැස\n\nසිරි සඟබෝ නිරිඳු\nවිකුම් වැඩි මහසෙන් රදු\nකිත්සිරි මේ නිරිඳු\nබුජස්‌ මහනම කුමර දස්‌ රඳු\n\nThe above two verses refer to castes that were entrusted to protect the Bodhi tree establishing roots in the country and producing kings like Sirisangabo, Mahasen, Kithsiri mewan, Buddhdasa, Mahanama, and Kumaradasa. However, due to the absence of direct descendants who claim to be of this caste, it is difficult to prove that this is the same royal clan that lost power by the 17th century. \n\nThe following provides further evidence for royal lineage:\n\n\nSince the 17th century, the status of the Bodhivansha caste gradually declined as a result of social changes due to western colonial influence. Throughout the colonial period, particularly during the British colonial era, it was portrayed as several disconnected castes with names such as pannadura, villidura, and dura that were not in use prior to the 17th century. Jobs like grass cutting have been proposed by various writers without referring to historical and literary sources like the Dipavamsa, Mahavamsa, or Pujavaliya. During this time of decline, they functioned mainly as soldiers, with some holding high ranks. Their military capability is visible even after the collapse of Kanyan kingdom, as they actively supported rebellions of 1818, 1834, and 1848. They also functioned as royal officers attached to various departments like the Kuruwe (elephant men), royal stables, and prisons. Some cared for the royal cattle shed and others held posts as \"mananna\", or grain measurers, of the royal storehouses. Samarakkodi, second Adigar of King Kirti Sri Rajasinha, who was instrumental in re-establishing Buddhism in Sri Lanka is a high-ranking officer from this caste.\n\n"}
{"id": "23721953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23721953", "title": "Bongo people (South Sudan)", "text": "Bongo people (South Sudan)\n\nThe Bongo are an ethnic group living in South Sudan, mostly in the Tonj District. They speak the Bongo language, one of the Bongo-Baka languages.\nUnlike the Dinka and other Nilotic groups, the Bongo are not a cattle herding people and do not use cows for bride price. Subsistence farming is the primary source of food, though money is obtained by working in forestry, building, selling honey, and other various means.\n\nGeorg August Schweinfurth, who lived two years among them, declared that before the advent of the slave-raiders, , they numbered at least 300,000. Slave-raiders, and later the dervishes, greatly reduced their numbers, and it was not until the establishment of effective control by the Sudan government (1904–1906) that recuperation was possible.\n\nBefore the twentieth century, Bongo men formerly wore only a loin-cloth, and many dozen iron rings on the arms (arranged to form a sort of armour), while the women had simply a girdle, to which was attached a tuft of grass. Both sexes now largely use cotton cloths as dresses. The tribal ornaments consist of nails or plugs which are passed through the lower lip. The women often wear a disk several inches in diameter in this fashion, together with a ring or a bit of straw in the upper lip, straws in the \"alae\" of the nostrils, and a ring in the \"septum\". The Bongo, unlike other of the upper Nile Negroes, are not great cattle-breeders, but employ their time in agriculture. The crops mostly cultivated were sorghum, tobacco, sesame and durra.\n"}
{"id": "33983895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33983895", "title": "Bosnian Canadians", "text": "Bosnian Canadians\n\nBosnian Canadians are Canadian citizens whose ancestry can be traced to Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the 2011 Canadian census, 22,920 people stated that they are of Bosnian descent.\nThe majority of Bosnian Canadians emigrated to Canada as refugees during and after the Bosnian War, which lasted from 1992-1995. The history of Bosnian arrivals to Canada, however, dates back to as far as the 19th century.\n\nThe traditional centers of residence and culture for Bosnian Canadians are located in Toronto, Montreal, Edmonton and Calgary. Numerous Bosnian language newspapers and other periodicals are published in many states. The largest Bosnian organisation in Canada is the Congress of North American Bosniaks.\n\nThe Bosnian Islamic Association Gazi Husrev-Beg was founded in November 1977 under the name 'Association of Islamic Community Gazi Husrev-Beg'. It has been operating under its current name (BIAGH) ever since 1995. The primary reason of its foundation was to respond to the religious needs of its members. That was made possible through a full-time imam, who has been serving this community uninterruptedly since June 1982. The BIAGH caters to the needs of Bosniaks that pertain to Bosniak tradition, folklore, sport and different creative workshops.\n\nMost Bosnian-Canadians either identify as Muslim, Eastern Orthodox, Catholic or non-religious.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36318343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36318343", "title": "Chamber of Most Worthy Peers", "text": "Chamber of Most Worthy Peers\n\nThe Chamber of Peers of Portugal, alternatively translatable as the House of Lords and formally styled the Chamber of the Most Worthy Peers of the Kingdom (Portuguese: \"Câmara dos Pares\" or \"Câmara dos Digníssimos Pares do Reino\") was the upper house of the Cortes Gerais, the legislature of the Kingdom of Portugal during most of the constitutional monarchy period. Members of the Chamber were Peers of the Realm, appointed directly at the pleasure of the Portuguese monarch.\n\nIt was established before the Liberal Wars. The king appointed a number of the highest nobility to the chamber. It was composed of 90 peerages, who did not have a hereditary right to sit by descent, but were nominated by the king.\n\nThe chamber existed from 1826-1838 and again from 1842-1910, when it was known as the Chamber of Peers of the Realm (\"Câmara dos Pares do Reino\").\n\nOne of the members was João Afonso da Costa de Sousa de Macedo, 1st Duke of Albuquerque.\n\nThe chamber met at the São Bento Palace. The successor of the chamber was the Senate.\n"}
{"id": "2149749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2149749", "title": "Chinese Cambodian", "text": "Chinese Cambodian\n\nChinese Cambodians are Cambodian citizens of Chinese or partial Chinese descent. The Khmer term \"Khmer kat Chen\" () is used for people of mixed Cambodian and Chinese descent while \"Khmer Chen\" () can mean Cambodian-born citizen of Chinese ancestry. Khmer people constitute the largest ethnic group in Cambodia among whom \"Chen\" means \"Chinese\". Contact with ethnic Chinese people such as envoys, merchants, travelers and diplomats who regularly visited Indochina verifiably existed since the beginning of the common era. However the earliest record of an ethnic Chinese community in Cambodia dates to the 13th century. As a result of a century-long settlement history people with mixed Chinese and Khmer ancestry account for a sizable portion of the population.\n\nChinese Cambodians also play a leading role in Cambodia's business sector and dominate the Cambodian economy today. In addition, Chinese Cambodians have a strong presence in Cambodia's political scene with many high ranking government officials and much of the political elite being of partial Chinese descent.\n\nThe earliest records of Chinese settlement dates back to the late 13th century. Yuan emissary Zhou Daguan visited Cambodia in 1296 and authored his detailed and comprehensive \"Record of Cambodia\" in which he mentions the presence of Chinese residents at Angkor. Portuguese seafarers noted the presence of a Chinese settlement in Phnom Penh in the early 17th century. Around the same time Lim To Khieng, a Chinese privateer made similar observation during his stay in Cambodia while trading and conducting sea raids. Shortly after the fall of the Ming dynasty in 1644, Chinese troops under the command of Mac Cuu and Duong Ngan Dich encouraged large numbers of refugees from Fujian and Guangdong provinces to settle in Indochina. The majority of the immigrants were men who eventually married local Khmer women. Their descendants usually assimilated smoothly into the local communities, the economic and social process and personally identified as Cambodians. However, customs were also imported, such as the practice of the Chinese topknot that was practized until the 18th century.\n\nThe French first introduced a legislation in 1873 which classified Chinese immigrants as 'Alien Asians' and subjects were subjected to resident taxes. King Norodom introduced a legislative reform in 1884 which required the Chinese immigrants to pay higher resident taxes but there were no legal restrictions imposed for immigrants to take up Cambodian citizenship. In 1891, the French introduced a legislation first introduced by Gia Long in Cochinchina, called \"bang\" in Chinese. Five associations were established in Cambodia, each identified by their specific region of ancestral origin in China; Cantonese, Hokkien, Hainanese, Teochew and Hakka. Chinese immigrants were required to register with their association to settle in Cambodia. Each of these associations were led by an elected headman, who would be responsible for maintaining law, order and tax collection duties from their countrymen.\n\nThe French system of administering the Chinese Cambodian community was terminated in 1958. During the 1960s, Chinese community affairs tended to be handled, at least in Phnom Penh, by the Chinese Hospital Committee, an organization set up to fund and to administer a hospital established earlier for the Chinese community.\n\nThis committee was the largest association of Chinese merchants in the country, and it was required by the organization's constitution to include on its fifteen-member board six people from the Teochew group, three from the Cantonese, two from the Hokkien, two from the Hakka, and two from the Hainanese. The hospital board constituted the recognized leadership of Phnom Penh's Chinese community. Local Chinese school boards in the smaller cities and towns often served a similar function.\n\nThis was to be a high point in terms of the rights of the Chinese minorities. Cambodian independence in 1953 saw a regression in their treatment by state authorities and the previously existing autonomy was eliminated by the new government. However, many private associations - cultural, business-oriented and to do with education - were simply continued by the Chinese communities and clan associations themselves, as these communities still had very significant economic and political power. Anti-Chinese feeling and policies emerged, however, after the coup of 1970 which saw the establishing of a pro-West government which considered the neighbouring People's Republic of China a dangerous threat - and the Chinese minorities in Cambodia as a possible fifth column.\n\nThe year 1970 thus marks the beginning of almost two decades of severe repression of the Chinese minorities in Cambodia. It was after this point that Cambodian authorities started forcing the closure of Chinese schools and newspapers, requiring the Chinese to carry special identity papers, imposing special taxes on the Chinese and moving towards denying them Cambodian citizenship. While the Khmer Rouge regime appeared to have a more ‘tolerant' ethnic policy initially, it continued to discriminate against the Chinese once it had completed its takeover of Cambodia. The continued discrimination, however, now rested on class rather than ethnic grounds; since the majority of urban Chinese were traders, they were classified as ‘capitalists' by the revolutionary regime. While there is no evidence that the Chinese were particularly targeted in the Khmer Rouge purges, their population in Cambodia was probably reduced by half in the four years of Khmer Rouge rule; it seems that there was an increased number of anti-Chinese events just prior to the Vietnamese invasion which brought an end to the Pol Pot regime.\n\nThe establishment of the People's Republic of Kampuchea after the Vietnamese invasion in 1979 was not completely positive for the Chinese minorities. Partly because of tensions between China and Vietnam, the new Cambodian authorities adopted restrictive measures against the remaining members of the Chinese minorities, including banning them from returning to urban trades.\n\nIn 1971 the government authorized the formation of a new body, the Federated Association of Chinese of Cambodia, which was the first organization to embrace all of Cambodia's resident Chinese. According to its statutes, the federation was designed to \"aid Chinese nationals in the social, cultural, public health, and medical fields,\" to administer the property owned jointly by the Chinese community in Phnom Penh and elsewhere, and to promote friendly relations between Cambodians and Chinese.\n\nWith leadership that could be expected to include the recognized leaders of the national Chinese community, the federation was believed likely to continue the trend, evident since the early 1960s, to transcend dialect group allegiance in many aspects of its social, political, and economic programs.\n\nGenerally, relations between the Chinese and the ethnic Khmer were good. There was some intermarriage, and a sizable proportion of the population in Cambodia was part Sino-Khmer, who were assimilated easily into either the Chinese or the Khmer community. Willmott assumes that a Sino-Khmer elite dominated commerce in Cambodia from the time of independence well into the era of the Khmer Republic.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge takeover was catastrophic for the Chinese community for several reasons. When the Khmer Rouge took over a town, they immediately disrupted the local market. According to Willmott, this disruption virtually eliminated retail trade \"and the traders (almost all Chinese) became indistinguishable from the unpropertied urban classes.\"\n\nThe Chinese, in addition to having their livelihood eradicated on the whole, also suffered because of their socioeconomic class. They were mainly well-educated urban merchants, and thus were characteristic of the people whom the Khmer Rouge detested. Chinese refugees have reported that they shared the same brutal treatment as other urban Cambodians under the Khmer Rouge régime but they were not discriminated against as an ethnic group until after the Vietnamese invasion due to the PRC's support of the Khmer Rouge. Several of the most senior members of the Khmer Rouge were themselves of partial Chinese descent, such as Nuon Chea, Ieng Sary, Khieu Samphan, Kang Kek Iew, Son Sen, Ta Mok and even Pol Pot himself. King Sihanouk saw the delineation and repression of Chinese business and identity as nationalism emerged and the Chinese were perceived as threatening to Cambodian sovereignty. During the various regimes between 1970 and 1990, Chinese enterprise and cultural expression was completely banned and destroyed and many ethnic Chinese died or fled the country.\n\nFollowing the Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia and the fall of Democratic Kampuchea, the new pro-Hanoi People's Republic of Kampuchea regime lifted some of the oppressive rules imposed on ethnic Chinese by the Khmer Rouge government. Chinese newspapers were allowed and the ban on speaking Chinese at home was lifted. However, partial restrictions and a certain amount of suspicion remained, for the pro-Soviet PRK regime resented China's support for the Khmer Rouge guerrillas fighting against it, now renamed as the \"National Army of Democratic Kampuchea\" (NADK). Observers at the time believed that the lingering anti-Chinese stance of the PRK government and of its officials in Phnom Penh made it unlikely that a Chinese community of the same scale as before the Khmer Rouge could resurface in Cambodia in the near future.\n\nThe conditions for the ethnic Chinese, however, improved greatly under the SOC, the transitional avatar of the PRK after 1989. Restrictions placed on them by the former PRK gradually disappeared. The State of Cambodia allowed ethnic Chinese to observe their particular religious customs and Chinese language schools were reopened. In 1991, two years after the SOC's foundation, the Chinese New Year was officially celebrated in Cambodia for the first time since 1975.\n\nOf particular note is China's economic role in the country, which encouraged Sino-Khmer businessmen to reestablish their past business which were once suppressed by the Khmer Rouge. The modern Cambodian economy is highly dependent on Sino-Khmer companies who controlled a large stake in the country's economy, and their support is enhanced by the large presence of lawmakers who are of at least part-Chinese ancestry themselves.\n\nThe Chinese language study is increasing in Phnom Penh, with the subject recently added to the national curriculum at the university level. Many Cambodians of ethnic Chinese descent learn Chinese for employment as well as business reasons due to the fact as many Mainland Chinese investors are investing across the Cambodian economy.\n\nThe position of the Chinese minority has undergone a dramatic turn for the better and the Chinese seem to have regained much of their previous economic clout. For various reasons, including the growing economic collaboration between China and Cambodia and the huge investments being made by Chinese companies, the Chinese community has seen its numbers expand dramatically in the 2000s (decade). There has been a huge growth in Chinese-language schools, often generously supported by the government of China through subsidies, and also in the production of textbooks (in Chinese) that incorporate Cambodian history and seminars for teachers. There may be close to 100 such schools today (2007). One of these private schools claims to be the largest overseas Chinese school in the world, with some 10,000 students. A number of Chinese-language newspapers began to be published in the country after 1993, and state television broadcasting even included a news segment in Chinese after 1998. All of the main political parties in Cambodia now appear sensitive to the clout of the Chinese minority, publishing campaign material in Chinese in the last elections. While this minority faced serious discrimination until the 1980s, it appears that that period has come to an end and that they no longer appear to be victimized by state authorities and are allowed to prosper under Hun Sen.\n\nAccording to statistics from the Ministry of Planning by the Cambodian government, approximately 15,000 individuals, or 0.1% out of the country's total population of 15 million were identified as ethnic Chinese in 2013. A year later, Chinese associations in Phnom Penh estimates that around 700,000 Cambodians have at least some Chinese ancestry. A government census done in 1962 showed that 163,000 individuals Cambodian nationals were registered as Chinese, which amounted to as much as 3% of the country's population. The ECCC had noted that then-Prince Sihanouk had estimated the Chinese population in Cambodia made up of 300,000 to 435,000 individuals in 1965, while CIA had estimated that there were about 444,000 Chinese in 1975. A University field study conducted by William Willmott in 1961 found that there were 425,000 Chinese in Cambodia, which made up to approximately 7.4% of the total population at that time. Willmott noted that there is a tendency for some Chinese who have taken up Cambodian citizenship, or Chinese descendants who have assimilated into Khmer society through intermarriages to be identified as Khmer in government censuses. During the late 1960s and early 1970s the approximately 425,000 Chinese Cambodians represented the largest ethnic minority in Cambodia. However, this number had fallen to a mere 61,400 by 1984. This rapid decline has been attributed to the accumulation of causes like warfare, economic stagnation, the Khmer Rouge era and subsequent emigration.\n\nOfficial censuses between 2004 and 2008 recorded that Chinese consisted of 0.3% of the country's total urban population and are concentrated mostly in Phnom Penh, while Chinese fluctuated between 0.0% and 0.1% of the country's total rural population between 2004 and 2013. Willmott's study of Chinese in Cambodia's urban and rural areas in 1963 recorded that 59% of the Chinese lived in cities and towns while 41% lived in the countryside. Phnom Penh had a Chinese population of 135,000, or about one-third (33.5%) the city's total population.\n\nThe Teochew people make up the largest Chinese sub-group in Cambodia and make up about 77% of the Chinese population. About 85% of the Teochews in Cambodia came from the prefectures of Jieyang and Shantou of Guangdong province in China. The earliest records of Teochew immigrants dates back to the 16th century when some mutineers under the leadership of the Chinese pirate, Lim To Khieng settled in Cambodia. No significant of Chinese immigration from the Chaoshan region occurred until the 1860s, and the Teochews came to Cambodia in modest numbers in the later part of the 19th century. Large-scale immigration occurred in the 1920s and 1930s, and the Teochews established themselves as the dominant Chinese sub-group thereafter. Approximately 48% of the Teochews live in rural area, and they made up about 90% of the rural Chinese population. The Teochews is also the largest sub-group in Cambodia, where some 100,000 out of 135,000 Chinese in 1962 are from this sub-group. Teochews in rural region of the country generally make their living as village shopkeepers, rural credit moneylenders, rice merchants or as vegetable farmers. In Phnom Penh and the smaller towns, the Teochews are generally import-export Entrepot traders, pharmacists or street peddlars.\n\nThe Cantonese are also known as \"Chen-Catung\" in Khmer language. They made up the largest Chinese sub-group in Cambodia between the 17th century until the early 20th century. lived mainly in the city. About 40% of the Cantonese are concentrated in Phnom Penh, while most of the remainder are found in Banteay Meanchey, Battambang, Kampong Cham, Kampong Chhnang and Kratie where they make up at least 30% of the Chinese populace. About 55% of the Cantonese came from the prefectures of Dongguan, Guangzhou and Foshan in Guangdong. In the 1880s and 1890s, Chinese real estate developers of Cantonese origin secured building contracts from the French colonial government, to develop brick-and-concrete shophouses in a programme of urban renewal of modernizing Phnom Penh. The Cantonese, who comprised the majority of Chinese Cambodians before the Teochew migrations began in the late 1930s, lived mainly in the city. Typically, the Cantonese engaged in transportation and in the skilled construction trades mainly as mechanics or carpenters.\n\nMore than 80 percent of the Hainanese people traced their origins from Wenchang county. People from Hainan settled in Cambodia from the early 18th century under Mạc Cửu, who established a trading settlement that spanned modern-day Ha Tien, Kampot province and Sihanoukville. Early Hainanese settlers started off as entrepot traders but turned to pepper trading at the end of the 18th century. They established pepper plantations in Kampot, and became the dominant Chinese sub-group in that province. Smaller Hainanese communities are also found at Sisophon and Sre Ambel. In the 1950s, many Hainanese would then move to Phnom Penh, where, in the late 1960s, they monopolized the city's entire hotel and restaurant business. Hainanese of more humbler socioeconomic backgrounds operated tailor shops and haberdasheries.\n\nThe Hokkien sub-group were believed to be the earliest Chinese sub-group to settle in Cambodia. Most of the Hokkiens trace their ancestry back to Quanzhou and Xiamen prefectures in southern Fujian province. The Hokkiens settle mainly in Phnom Penh and Battambang, and many Khmer families in Battambang claimed to have some distant Hokkien Chinese ancestry.\nThe Hokkien community is involved the import-export shipping trade and in banking. They also comprised a large percentage of the country's richest Chinese.\n\nAbout 65% of the Hakka trace their roots back to Meizhou and Heyuan prefectures in Guangdong province. About 70% of the Hakkas are found in Phnom Penh where they are dominant professions in the field of Traditional Chinese Medicine, and shoemaking. Hakkas are also found in Takeo province, Stung Treng and Rattanakiri who consist of vegetable farmers and rubber plantation workers. Hakka communities in the provinces migrated to Cambodia through Tonkin and Cochinchina in the 18th and 19th centuries. In Phnom Penh, the newly-arrived Hakka were typically folk dentists, sellers of traditional Chinese medicines, and shoemakers.\n\nMany Chinese Cambodian families have their children learn Chinese to reaffirm their Chinese identity as Mandarin has been increasingly the primary language of business for Overseas Chinese business communities. One main factor is due to the rise of China's global economic prominence and many Chinese Cambodian business families see Mandarin as a beneficial asset to partake economic links to conduct business between Cambodia and Mainland China.\n\nChinese Cambodians are generally practitioners of Chinese folk religion, which incorporates rituals associated with Taoism, Confucianism and Buddhism. Most Chinese families maintain a small shrine dedicated to at least one or more legendary or historical figure, and popular choices include Kitchen God, Guan Yu, Guan Yin, Matsu and Wang Ye. During festive occasions such as Chinese New Year, Chinese Cambodians would pray at communal temples either individually or as a group. Joss sticks and paper as well as food offerings are used for prayers. On certain occasions such as funerals or fortune-telling, Chinese Cambodians would approach spirit mediums and geomancers.\n\nA small minority of Chinese Cambodians follow mainstream Mahayana Buddhism of the Chan denomination. Chinese Cambodian families generally do not practice Theravada Buddhism and send their children to Khmer monasteries, except for those descendants who have assimilated into mainstream Khmer society. In the 1990s and 2000s, there exists a trend among assimilated Sino-Khmer silk merchants who maintain commercial links with Chinese businessmen to re-adopt Chinese cultural and religious practices. They maintain Chinese shrines in their homes and shops, and explained that the adoption of such practices are necessary to forge closer ties with Mainland and Overseas Chinese businessmen.\n\nLike much of Southeast Asia, ethnic Chinese dominate Cambodian commerce at every level of society. Entrepreneurial savvy Chinese have literally taken over Cambodia's entire economy. Ethnic Chinese wield tremendous economic clout over their indigenous Khmer majority counterparts and play a critical role in maintaining the country's economic vitality and prosperity. The ethnic Chinese community is one of the most socioeconomically and politically influential and powerful communities in Cambodia. The community dominates the entire Cambodian business sector and is economically prosperous relative to their indigenous Khmer counterparts. With their powerful economic prominence, the Chinese virtually make up the country's entire wealthy elite. Within this structure, Cambodia as a plural society where one’s place in the economic structure depends on one’s ethnic background. Furthermore, the Chinese Cambodians \"not only form a distinct ethnic community, they also form, by and large, an economic class: the commercial middle and upper class in contrast to the poorer indigenous Khmer majority working and underclass, who have traditionally looked down on commerce.\n\nChinese economic dominance of Cambodia dates back the pre-French colonial kingdoms where Chinese merchants often maintained patron-client relationships with the Khmer monarchy. William Willmot, a Sinologist at the University of British Columbia estimates that 90 percent of the Chinese in Cambodia were involved in commerce in 1963. Playing a crucial economic role in the country, the Chinese control almost all of Cambodia's internal trade and substantial portion of the manufacturing including rice-milling and transportation sectors. Today, an estimated 60 percent are urban dwellers engage in commerce while the rest of the rural population work as shopkeepers, processors of food products (such as rice, palm sugar, fruit, and fish), and moneylenders. Throughout Cambodian cities, Chinese dominated numerous industries such as retail, hospitality, export-import trade, light, food processing, soft drinks, printing and machine shops. In addition, virtually all of Cambodia's richest people are of Chinese descent. Rural Chinese businessmen operated general shops that provided ethnic Khmer peasants with essential purchases such as farming supplies, groceries imported from China, sanpots and sarongs, bamboo baskets, perfume, kerosene for lamps, alcohol as well as tobacco. Those in the Kampot Province and parts of Kaoh Kong Province cultivate black pepper and fruit (especially rambutans, durians, and coconuts). Additionally, rural Chinese Cambodians also engaged in salt water fishing. In the 19th century, French colonials allowed Chinese-run businesses to flourish due to their laissez faire capitalist policies. Willmott estimated that the ethnic Chinese controlled 92 percent of the Cambodian economy by the mid-20th century. They traded in urban areas and worked as shopkeepers, moneylenders and traditional healers in rural areas, while Chinese farmers controlled Cambodia’s lucrative Kampot pepper industry. Chinese Cambodian moneylenders wield considerable economic power over the poorer indigenous ethnic Khmer peasants through usury at an interest rate of 10 to 20 percent per month. This might have been the reason why seventy-five percent of the peasants in Cambodia were in debt in 1952, according to the Australian Colonial Credit Office. Chinese Cambodian entrepreneurs are also estimated to control 70 percent of the industrial investment and are actively engaged in trading, real estate development, construction, small-scale manufacturing, alcohol distilling, hospitality, fast food restaurants, and food processing. Ethnic Chinese also dominate the silk weaving industry where key commercial positions in the Cambodian silk trading networks are completely held in Chinese hands.\n\nCambodia's rice milling industry is completely under Chinese hands and wield a complete monopoly on rice distilling. At the turn of the 20th century, Cambodia's rice mills was completely controlled by the Chinese and was responsible for the nation's entire export of rice. Hierarchies of rice mills were established ranging from the small humble rural rice dealer all the way to the colossal Cholon style rice mills. Many shopkeepers also mixed and diversified other services of value such as lending money and retailing manufactured goods in addition to rice trading. Despite constituting less than 1 percent of the overall population of Cambodia, ethnic Chinese are estimated to control 70 percent of the publicly listed companies on the Cambodian stock exchange. Of the 346 shipping firms listed in the 1963 issue of the Chinese Commercial Annual, a minimum of 267 or 78 percent were owned by Chinese Cambodians with the eight of the top ten businesses being owned by Sino-Khmers. The remainder were either French or state owned but economic preponderance prompted ethnic Chinese businessmen to act as financial intermediaries operating as agents for the French as well as their own. In addition, Chinese investment in Cambodia was second to the French prior to the Second Sino-Japanese war. 95 percent of the internal trade was also under control of the Chinese. Of the 3349 industrial firms listed by the Cambodian Ministry of Industry in 1961, 3300 or 99 percent were controlled by the Chinese with the rest being either state owned or by French interests. Chinese representation of the 3300 strong firms was 90 percent of the total private investment in the aggregate. Industrial firms range from artisan work shops, small scale manufacturing, foodstuff (dry ice, soda pop, or soy sauce) and primary processing of saw milling, rice milling, sugar refining and charcoal burning. Since 1995, Chinese Cambodians have reestablished themselves as the dominant economic players since the fall of the Khmer Rouge by controlling Cambodia's entire import-export shipping, banking, hotel, gold and rice trading, garments, industrial manufacturing and real estate sectors. Market reforms during the mid-1980s have attracted a large contingent of wealthy Overseas Chinese entrepreneurs looking to exploit opportunities in Cambodian property development and general trading.\n\nEthnic Chinese are responsible for pioneering the development of the country's entire small, medium, and large enterprise sector by setting up trading and production firms, restaurants, and stores, as well as establishing virtually all of the country's politically well-connected business groups. Utilizing the bamboo network business model, ethnic Chinese businesses are structured as family businesses, trust-based networks, and patronage arrangements with a centralized bureaucracy. Moreover, social mechanisms that underpin these entrepreneurial trajectories largely derive from family, ethnic, cultural, and patron-client ties based on personalized and informal trust. Confucian Chinese business practices and societal discourses that link “Chineseness” are stereo-typically linked to economic success which is omnipresent in contemporary Cambodia. Ethnic Chinese entrepreneurs continue to remain the driving force behind the modern Cambodian economy with many of them having relatives in government through political connections and business networks in the Cambodia Chamber of Commerce, which is predominantly made up of ethnic Chinese themselves. Entrepreneurial networks, Chinese family clan associations, Chambers of Commerce with business resources are found across the country to assist aspiring Chinese Cambodian entrepreneurs. Furthermore, the opening up of China's global prominence in the world economy has induced the resurrection of ties between the ethnic Chinese in Cambodia and their ancestral homeland in Mainland China.\n\nToday, Cambodia's ethnic Chinese are now at the forefront of opening up the country's economy as an international Overseas Chinese economic outpost. Much of the foreign investment now entering Cambodia is being channeled through Overseas Chinese bamboo networks. Many members of the Chinese Cambodian business community often act as agents for expatriate Mainland and Overseas Chinese investors outside of Cambodia. Of particular note is Mainland China's economic role in the country, which has emerged to become a dominant foreign player in Cambodia. China's source of external influence in the Cambodian economy has encouraged Chinese Cambodian businessmen to reestablish their past businesses and regain their lost property which were once confiscated by the Khmer Rouge. The modern Cambodian business sector is highly dependent on ethnic Chinese companies who control virtually the country's entire economy and their support is enhanced by the large presence of lawmakers and politicians whom are of at least part-Chinese themselves. Cambodia’s lack of an indigenous Khmer commercial culture in the private sector that is dominated entirely by Chinese Cambodians, has encouraged a plethora of Mainland Chinese foreign investment capital into the country. From 1994 to July 2011, Mainland China invested more than $8.8 billion USD across the country. The Cambodian government has made efforts to attract hundreds of millions of dollars in investments from Mainland China and Overseas Chinese businessmen as well as marketing the nations tourism industry to potential Mainland Chinese clients. In addition, Mainland Chinese expatriate entrepreneurs and investors have been coming to Cambodia to acquire Cambodian assets and have invested substantial amounts of capital across the Cambodian economy channeling their financial capital through bamboo networks. The Cambodian Chinese business community has been backed by the Cambodian political elite as much of the country depends on ethnic Chinese entrepreneurs and the pouring of Mainland Chinese investment capital for job creation has added to the globalized value added investment chain in the country. The CPP itself has incorporated many ethnic Chinese who provide financial support to the party with many high government officials and other major political decision makers being of partial Chinese descent. The position of the Chinese minority has undergone a dramatic turn for the better and the Chinese seem to have regained much of their previous economic clout. The influx of Chinese capital has led to a resurgence of Chinese cultural pride among the Chinese Cambodian community while concurrently creating new jobs and economic niches. Following the transition of Cambodia from socialism to market-driven state owned capitalist principles, that Cambodia’s Chinese community began to reassert their cultural identity and economic clout. This reassertion of Chinese identity has blossomed into confident displays of Han Chinese ethnic pride following the influx of Mainland Chinese investment into Cambodia. Since 1990, Cambodia witnessed a rebirth of Han Chinese cultural expression and business boom across the country. Regional trade networks were restored and small and medium sized businesses have flourished since the introduction of market-driven state owned capitalist principles in the country. The growing economic collaboration between China and Cambodia and the huge investments being made by Overseas and Mainland Chinese companies in the country has led the Chinese Cambodian community to see its numbers expand dramatically since the turn of the 21st century.\n\nThe 21st-century Chinese Cambodian community remains a modern well established commercial middle and upper class group. The community remains an insular and tight-knit group that has integrated well into local Cambodian society becoming a stereotypical trope representing socioeconomic success and extreme wealth. As ethnic Chinese economic might grew, Cambodian hill tribes and aborigines were gradually driven out into poorer land on the hills, on the rural outskirts of major Cambodian cities or into the mountains. The increased resurgence of Chinese cultural and economic activity in 21st-century Cambodia has triggered distrust, resentment and Anti-Chinese sentiment among the poorer indigenous Khmer majority, many whom eke out a simple living engaging in rural agrarian rice peasantry or fishing in a stark socioeconomic contrast to their modern, wealthier, and cosmopolitan middle class Chinese counterparts, who mainly engage in business, the skilled trades, or white collar professional occupations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41257922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41257922", "title": "Corruption in Macedonia", "text": "Corruption in Macedonia\n\nAccording to Transparency International Global Corruption Barometer 2013, corruption is a large concern in the public sector as more than half of the surveyed households consider Parliament, police, public officials, and particularly the judiciary and political parties very corrupt.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 107th place out of 180 countries.\n\nThe business environment in Macedonia is negatively affected by corruption. Several sources indicate that corruption is considered an obstacle for doing business, and businessmen have reported that bribery is demanded sometimes during public procurement and contracting.\n\nThe European Commission Progress Report 2013 indicates some positive developments regarding Macedonia's law enforcement and corruption prevention activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8020189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8020189", "title": "Economic mobility", "text": "Economic mobility\n\nEconomic mobility is the ability of an individual, family or some other group to improve (or lower) their economic status—usually measured in income. Economic mobility is often measured by movement between income quintiles. Economic mobility may be considered a type of social mobility, which is often measured in change in income.\n\nThere are many different ideas in the literature as to what constitutes a good mathematical measure of mobility, each with their own advantages and drawbacks.\n\nMobility may be between generations (\"inter-generational\") or within a person or groups lifetime (\"intra-generational\").\nIt may be \"absolute\" or \"relative\".\n\nInter-generational mobility compares a person’s (or group's) income to that of her/his/their parents. Intra-generational mobility, in contrast, refers to movement up or down over the course of a working career. Absolute mobility involves widespread economic growth and answers the question “To what extent do families improve their incomes over a generation?” Relative mobility is specific to individuals or groups and occurs without relation to the economy as a whole. It answers the question, \"how closely are the economic fortunes of children tied to that of their parents?\" Relative mobility is a zero-sum game, absolute is not.\n\n\nHow much economic mobility really exists has been studied.\n\nAccording to the 2007 \"American Dream Report\" study, \"by some measurements\"—relative mobility between generations -- \"we are actually a less mobile society than many other nations, including Canada, France, Germany and most Scandinavian countries. This challenges the notion of America as the land of opportunity.\" Other research places the U.S. among the least economically mobile countries.\n\nAnother 2007 study (\"Economic Mobility Project: Across Generations\") found significant upward \"absolute\" mobility from the late 1960s to 2007, with two-thirds of those who were children in 1968 reporting more household income than their parents (although most of this growth in total family income can be attributed to the increasing number of women who work since male earnings have stayed relatively stable throughout this time).\n\nHowever, in terms of relative mobility it stated: \"contrary to American beliefs about equality of opportunity, a child’s economic position is heavily influenced by that of his or her parents.\" 42% of children born to parents in the bottom fifth of the income distribution (\"quintile\") remain in the bottom, while 39% born to parents in the top fifth remain at the top. Only half of the generation studied exceeded their parents economic standing by moving up one or more quintiles. Moving between quintiles is more frequent in the middle quintiles (2-4) than in the lowest and highest quintiles. Of those in one of the quintiles 2-4 in 1996, approximately 35% stayed in the same quintile; and approximately 22% went up one quintile or down one quintile (moves of more than one quintile are rarer). 39% of those who were born into the top quintile as children in 1968 are likely to stay there, and 23% end up in the fourth quintile. Children previously from lower-income families had only a 1% chance of having an income that ranks in the top 5%. On the other hand, the children of wealthy families have a 22% chance of reaching the top 5%.\n\nAccording to a 2007 study by the US Treasury Department, Americans concerned over the recent growth in inequality (after-tax income of the top 1% earners has grown by 176% percent from 1979 to 2007 while it grew only 9% for the lowest 20%) can be reassured by the healthy income mobility in America: \"There was considerable income mobility of individuals [within a single generation] in the U.S. economy during the 1996 through 2005 period as over half of taxpayers moved to a different income quintile over this period\".\n\nOther studies were less impressed with the rate of individual mobility in the United States. A 2007 inequality and mobility study (by Kopczuk, Saez and Song) and 2011 CBO study on \"Trends in the Distribution of Household Income, found the pattern of annual and long-term earnings inequality \"very close\", or \"only modestly\" different. Another source described it as the mobility of \"the guy who works in the college bookstore and has a real job by his early thirties,\" rather than poor people rising to middle class or middle income rising to wealth.\n\nThere are two different ways to measure economic mobility: absolute and relative. Absolute mobility measures how likely a person is to exceed their parents’ family income at the same age. Research by the Pew Economic Mobility Project shows that the majority of Americans, 84 percent, exceed their parents' income. However, the size of absolute income gains is not always enough to move them to the next rung of the economic ladder.\n\nA focus on how Americans’ rank on the income ladder compares to their parents, their peers, or even themselves over time is a measure of relative mobility. The Pew Economic Mobility Project’s research shows that forty percent of children in the lowest income quintile remain there as adults, and 70 percent remain below the middle quintile, meaning 30% moved up two quintiles or more in one generation.\n\nIn recent years several large studies have found that vertical inter-generational mobility is lower in the United States than in most developed countries.\nA 1996 paper by Daniel P. McMurrer, Isabel V. Sawhill found \"mobility rates seem to be quite similar across countries.\" However a more recent paper (2007) found a person's parents is a great deal more predictive of their own income in the United States than other countries. The United States had about 1/3 the ratio of mobility of Denmark and less than half that of Canada, Finland and Norway. France, Germany, Sweden, also had higher mobility, with only the United Kingdom being less mobile.\n\nEconomic mobility in developing nations (such as those in Africa) is thought to be limited by both historical and global economic factors.\nEconomic mobility is everywhere correlated with income and wealth inequality.\n\nWomen in their 30s have substantially higher incomes today than their counterparts did in their parents’ generation. Between 1974 and 2004, average income for women in their 30s has increased almost fourfold. This is a stark contrast to the growth in income of their male counterparts. The average income of men in their 30s has increased from 31,000 in 1964 to 35,000 in 2004, an increase of only 4,000.\n\nHowever, much of this can be attributed to employment rates. The employment rate of women in their 30s has increased from 39% in 1964 to 70% in 2004; whereas, the rate of employment for men in this same age group has decreased from 91% in 1964 to 86% in 2004. This sharp increase in income for working women, in addition to stable male salaries, is the reason upward economic mobility is attributed to women.\n\n\"See: De-industrialization crisis\"\n\nAverage income for both White and Black families has increased since the 1970s. However, average income for White families in their 30s has increased from $50,000 to $60,000 from 1975 to 2005, compared to an increase from $32,000 to $35,000 for Black families of the same age over the same period. So in addition to receiving a lower average income, its growth is also less for Black families (10% growth) than their White counterparts (19% growth). One way this can be explained is that even though marriage rates have declined for both races, Blacks are 25% less likely to be in a married couple. However, Blacks also have less economic mobility and are less likely to surpass their parents’ income or economic standing than Whites. Two of three White children born into families in the middle quintile have achieved a higher family income than their parents. Conversely, only one of three Black children born into families in the middle quintile has achieved a higher family income than their parents. On average, Black children whose parents were in the bottom or second quintile do exceed their parents’ income, but those whose parents were in the middle or fourth quintile actually have a lower income than their parents. This is a very large difference compared to Whites, who experience intergenerational income growth in every quintile except the highest. This shows that in addition to lower wages with less growth over time, it is less likely for Black families to experience upward economic mobility than it is for Whites.\n\nIt is a widespread belief that there is a strong correlation between obtaining an education and increasing one’s economic mobility. In the United States, the education system has always been considered the most effective and equal process for all individuals to improve one’s economic standing. Despite the increasing availability to education for all, family background continues to play a huge role in determining economic success. To individuals who do not have or cannot obtain an education, the greater overall levels of education can act as a barrier, increasing their chance of being left behind at the bottom of the economic or income ladder. In this regard, education policy that allocates high ability students from lower social economic background to quality schools can have a large impact on economic mobility.\n\nStudies have shown that education and family background has a great effect on economic mobility across generations. Family background or one’s socioeconomic status affects the likelihood that students will graduate from high school or college, what type of college or institution they will attend, and how likely they are to graduate and complete a degree. According to studies, when split into income quintiles including the bottom, second, middle, fourth and top, adult children without a college degree and with parents in the bottom quintile remained in the bottom quintile. But if the adult children did have a college degree, there was only a 16% chance that they would remain at the bottom of the quintile. Therefore, it was proven that education provided an increase in economic status and mobility for poorer families. Not only does obtaining a college degree make it much more likely for individuals to make it to the top two quintiles, education helps those who were born in the top quintiles to remain in the top quintiles. Therefore, hard work and increasing education from those who are born into the lower quintiles can boost economic status and help them move ahead, but children born into wealthier families do seem to have the advantage. Even when the likelihood of attending college is ignored, studies have shown that out of all the students that enroll in college, socioeconomic status or family background still has an effect on graduation rates with 53% of those from the top quintile receiving bachelor's degrees along with 39% from the middle and 22% from the bottom quintile. According to the 2002 US Census, students can expect to earn on average about $2.1 million with a bachelor's degree over the course of their working career. That is almost $1 million more than what individual’s without a college degree can expect to earn.\n\nConsidering that inflation rates have not kept up with increasing tuition rates, disadvantaged families have a much harder time affording college. Especially considering the increased competition for college admittances at public schools, students from lower economic quintiles are at an even greater disadvantage. Tuition rates over the past ten years has risen 47% at public universities and 42% at private universities. While having to take out more loans and work jobs while taking classes, students from lower income quintiles are considering college to be “a test of their endurance rather than their intelligence”.\n\nBy obtaining an education, individuals with low economic status can increase the income potential and therefore earn more than their parents and possibly surpass those in the upper income quintiles. Overall, each additional level of education an individual achieves whether it be a high school, college, graduate, or professional degree can add greatly to income levels. On the other hand, there are reports that disagree with the idea that individuals can work hard, obtain an education and succeed because there is the notion that America is actually getting poorer and actually more likely to stay poor as compared to any other western country. Some claim that the idea of the “American Dream” is starting to fade since the middle-class family income has remained constant since 1973. But upward mobility clearly still exists. One study claims that economic mobility is 3 times stronger in Denmark, 2.5 times higher in Canada, and 1.5 times higher in Germany as compared to the United States.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau, the number of legal immigrants has been rising steadily since the 1960s. The number has increased from about 320,000 to almost a million per year. About 500,000 illegal immigrants also remain in the United States each year. People immigrate to the United States in hopes of greater economic opportunities and most first generation immigrants experience a boost in their income from the American economy. But since most do not have an education, their wages quickly begin to fall relative to non-immigrants. According to studies, there is a great upward jump in economic mobility from the first to the second immigrant generation because of education. These second generation immigrants exceed the income levels of the first generation immigrants as well as some non-immigrants.\n\nThrough intergenerational mobility research, the mobility of immigrants and their children from different nations can be measured. Considering relative wages from male workers from certain nations in 1970 to second generation male workers in 2000, conclusions can be drawn about economic mobility. In 1970, if immigrants had come from an industrialized nation, then their average wages tended to be more than the average wages of non-immigrant workers during that time. In 2000, the second generation workers had experienced a downfall in relative mobility because their average wages were much closer to the average wages of a non-immigrant worker. In 1970, for the immigrant workers migrating from less industrialized countries, their average wages were less than the average wages of non-immigrant workers. In 2000, the second generation workers from less industrialized nations have experienced an increase in relative mobility because their average wages have moved closer to those of non-immigrants.\n\nBy computing the intergenerational correlation between relative wages of first and second generation workers from the same country a conclusion was made regarding whether or not first generation immigrants influence the wages of the second generation immigrants. This computation was also reported for native-born first and second generation American families. The study found that both immigrants and natives pass along almost exactly the same level of economic advantages or disadvantages to their offspring. These conclusions predict diminishing correlations in wages from the first and second generations if change in the level of education for each immigrant is considered. Since the majority of immigrants have low levels of education, it may be increasingly difficult for future second generation immigrants to ever surpass the average wages of non-immigrants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48595805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48595805", "title": "Electricity theft in Pakistan", "text": "Electricity theft in Pakistan\n\nElectricity theft in Pakistan or Electricity hooking in Pakistan or (Kunda system in local language) has particular meaning throughout Pakistan, especially in Karachi and Lahore. Generally Kunda (hook) system is used for illegal electricity connection. In Karachi a parallel power supply “the Kunda System” has been running for years. The word “Kunda” is applied for all connection acquired by any means other than legal procedures. Literally in Urdu language word “Kunda” is meant a sphere or semi sphere shape with or without further curves for connecting iron chain. Basically the word Kunda belongs to old Hindi language family. Briefly Kunda system means theft of electricity in Pakistan. The term official Kunda \nis also used as KESC staff under a provision also provides official Kunda to the consumers of their choice. Users who consume electricity through illegal connections are not only a problem for the Karachi Electric Company but it is also a main cause of inaccessibility of power supply to genuine legal consumers who had to face power breakdowns in addition to power fluctuations due to Kunda system.\n\nElectricity shortage throughout Pakistan is a chronic issue. Street protests in Pakistan for electricity shutdown and poor performance are common. However, no proper solution is achieved by the protesters, instead a sweet promise is assured to the victims of electricity supply by the concerned quarters of the locality.\n\nEnergy theft is a world issue and this white collar crime is committed elsewhere irrespective of economic stability of countries. Electricity theft of 6 billion US dollars per year was reported in 2012-13 alone in the US. A business case from a utility in Canada, BC Hydro, claims that electricity theft cost them at least 850 GWh (gigawatt-hours) or approximately US Dollar 100 million per year. In some countries, energy loss due to theft is estimated at over 35%. Legitimate customers bear the cost of electricity theft, which has grown significantly in the recent decades. The rate of stealing electricity is much higher in developing countries like Pakistan.\n\nIn 2013 it was placed on record in the Senate of Pakistan, that in the last 5 years Pakistan had lost Rs 90 billion in electricity theft and line losses.\n\nK-Electric is a successor to KESC which was its original name for more than 70 years and was operating as a vertically integrated power utility in Pakistan. It is thoroughly integrated in generation, transmission and distribution to the whole Karachi city and its surroundings. Earlier to 1990 KESC was enjoying a good reputation. Suddenly it was placed under WAPDA control at that time company’s share with its face value in Pakistan Rupees 10/- was selling at Rs.160/- in stock market. WAPDA was ill-reputed for corruption and mismanagement. Under WAPDA control its share was trading below face value. However KESC was privatized later.\n\nBBC Delhi correspondent, besides citing different issues, one of the disclosed reasons of electricity theft was that in India poor people buy stolen power because they cannot afford to buy it. In Karachi this reason can also be observed in least developed areas. According to estimates published in 2012-13, there were approximately 483 Katchi Abadies (unauthorized residential colonies) in Karachi prior to 1990, the residents of such localities do not have legal right to have civic facilities and basic living provisions such as electricity/water from government departments. According to Chairman of Standing Committee on Urban Development of the Federation of Pakistan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, now it has grown to over 4,700. This is a main reason, where poor and deprived people are compelled to deal with Kunda Mafia.\n\nElectricity theft, particularly in Pakistan, can best be evaluated in the finding/study by Thomas B. Smith Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Zayed University, Dubai, UAE \nAccording to disclosing by KESC sources the Daily Times Pakistan writes:\nDifference in time of load-shedding: A large number of illegal ‘kunda’ connections are overloading the K-Electric. The use of kunda connections not only a cause of financial losses to K-Electric but also the main reason of frequent tripping. Among many other reasons one of the basis of getting electricity through kunda system is access of consumer to a nearby area where timing of two neighborhoods are different for load shedding.\n\nNight Matches Kunda system is also applied in Saturday night matches which is very common in Karachi. They use at least 15-20 of 500-watts bulb rods for lighting a little area of pitch.\n\nOne of the reasons for electricity theft is that middle class who due to meager resources could not bear to pay the many units consumed at a higher cost on slab to slab increase. The slabs of units consumed and electricity charges are (2015 slabs and rates):\n\nThere is strong basis for charging electricity consumption bill according to affordability of consumers (reasonable tariff for 300-500 units - this step will reduce electricity theft), incompetency of people because of resources can be noticed that even they had given no importance to a religious decree issued in 2009 prohibiting theft of electricity.\n\nIn 2014 President of Pakistan has issued an ordinance for defining strict punishments to electricity thieves across the country. The strategy and the action should be based upon a thorough understanding of the specific nature of the theft problem, while implementing the law against electricity thefts so as to technical loss due to pilferage and theft of electricity should not be dealt with combined.\n\nK-Electric has introduced a latest technology which will remove “Kunda system and electricity theft”. Under this program Area Bundle Cable (ABC) System has already been installed in Kiamari area and entire city is to be covered with the new technology of ABC. The system makes it impossible to steal electricity and K-Electric can reduce transmission and distribution loss (T&D loss) remarkably as the ABC project will install special power cables and digital power tariff meters, which are kunda and tampering proof.\n\n"}
{"id": "17957920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17957920", "title": "Envirofit International", "text": "Envirofit International\n\nEnvirofit International is a social enterprise established in 2003 to develop technology that will reduce pollution and enhance energy efficiency in developing countries. Envirofit’s founders are Tim Bauer, Nathan Lorenz, Paul Hudnut, and Bryan Willson. The social enterprise is based in Fort Collins, Colorado and has been recognized for the global impact of its innovative technology and market-based delivery of the clean energy cook stoves which help to reduce air pollution.\n\nEnvirofit International began in 2003 as an adjunct program to the Colorado State University Engines and Energy Conversion Laboratory to bring sustainable clean energy solutions to solve health and energy challenges on a global level. The first product was a retrofit technology to reduce pollution from two-stroke cycle vehicle engines in the Philippines. This project won the Rolex Award for Enterprise in 2008. Envirofit engineers then turned their focus to stoves. Envirofit International’s first commercial clean cook stove model was produced in India in 2008. In order to meet the demands of consumers throughout the various markets and the growing health concerns of cooking on a traditional stove, Envirofit started to scale the model in 2010. In 2009, Nathan Lorenz and Tim Bauer were named Heroes of the Environment for their smokeless and less hazardous stove by Time Magazine.\n\nIn 2007 Envirofit partnered with The Shell Foundation’s Breathing Space Program to develop clean cook stoves.\n\nEnvirofit International developed the clean burning cook stove to help with indoor air pollution in developing countries. The design was created after engineers studied the flow of heat and smoke in a combustion chamber using computer modeling to determine the best size and shape for the stove. It was found that sheet metal can burn through in a matter of weeks. Therefore, researchers worked to develop a metal and insulation to withstand high temperatures and frequent use at a low cost. The design of the cook stove had to best fit with the consumers using it. Most of the consumers live on $2 to $10 a day and spend several hours preparing food and water for their families to use.\n\nThe technology of the clean cook stove has been dubbed the rocket stove because of the simple yet effective design. The cook stove has a large vertical cylinder that holds a pot and an opening at the bottom to feed the combustible biomass to cook a meal or pasteurize drinking water. In the next five years the clean stoves could reduce carbon dioxide emissions by more than 400,000 tons and prevent more than 85,000 kilograms of black carbon from entering the atmosphere. The combustion chamber of the Envirofit stoves use up to 60% less fuel than other stoves or open fires to reduce toxic emissions by up to 80%. There are several types of clean stoves produced by Envirofit International including the CH-4400 charcoal stove, the CH-5200 charcoal stove, the CH-2200 charcoal stove, the Z-3000 Built-In wood stove, the G-3300 wood stove, and the M-500.\n"}
{"id": "49632046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49632046", "title": "Federal volunteers service", "text": "Federal volunteers service\n\nThe Federal Volunteers Service () is a German government program which encourages volunteerism among German young adults for public welfare, especially for social, ecological and cultural engagement. Every person who has finished school can apply for a volunteer position in a welfare institution accredited by the federal government.\n\nIn West Germany Liselotte Funcke advocated in the 1960s a voluntary social year for young women \nAlready in the 1950s there were as State mass initiative in East Germany for National integration, which took care of the removal of the rubble of World War II. In the 1960s this was the initiative of the \"Mach mit Bewegung\" (\"participate movement\").\n\nThe starting end of the 1990s by recurring debate on a possible abolition of conscription and the high demand for places in the youth volunteer services led the Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, in 2003, a commission of experts \"for the future of civil society\" convened. Representatives of social and environmental organizations and the relevant ministries drafted a final report, that suggested, among other things, the promotion of inter-generational volunteer services. Two corresponding model projects started from 2004 but included only projects with weekly working hours to a maximum of 20 hours, so not up to the full-time use in the youth volunteer services. From 2009 to the end of 2011 a follow-up project \"Voluntary Service all generations\" offered only a part-time (8 hours per week) engagement.\n\nAfter it became clear in late summer 2010 that the project of Defence Minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg to suspend conscription will be successful, the Federal Ministry for Family Affairs drafted a bill for the Federal voluntary service in the departmental co-ordination. With effect of 28 April 2011 and a relatively short legislative procedure the' 'Law on the Federal Voluntary Service (BFDG Federal Voluntary Service Act)' entered into force. After initial reluctance, the service is now regarded as a success, due to the fact that in the first five years more than 216,000 persons became a \"Bufdi\" or \"BFDler/BFDlerin\" (for Bundesfreiwilligendienstleistende, German for Federal Volunteer), how the volunteers serving the BFD are called. Several associations and support stand for a further expansion of the service, after almost all the seats were awarded in 2012.\n\nEverybody, and not only German citizens, is allowed to become volunteer of the Federal Volunteers Service after finishing the minimum school age. There is upper age limit. The service has to be fulfilled like full employees in 40 working hours per week. The minimum length of service is 12 months, with some exceptions. Volunteers over the age of 27 are allowed to serve again after five years. For the service period the volunteer has to pay full social insurance like a normal employee.\n\nDepending on the institution the volunteers are working the federal government pays a part or all costs, especially for social insurance. The volunteer only gets pocket money.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53564170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53564170", "title": "Femcyclopaedia", "text": "Femcyclopaedia\n\nFemcyclopaedia is an art-advocacy campaign founded and curated by Kirthi Jayakumar as part of The Red Elephant Foundation. The project combines zen doodling and research on historical narratives, and strives to put women back into the narratives of history.\n\nA curated exhibit of Femcyclopaedia in honour of Women's History Month in March 2017 was put together at the American Center, in the US Consulate General at Chennai. A dedicated curation on Women in Technology was put together for She The People TV in December 2017. Artist Kirthi Jayakumar and Femcyclopaedia find mention in \"Women Who Draw.\"\n\nFemcyclopaedia was the subject of a TEDxTalk by Kirthi Jayakumar at TEDxChoice School. Women's Web recognizes the art campaign saying: \"Femcyclopaedia is a campaign that uses art to illustrate revolutionary women who shaped humankind in the past, and women building a better future.\"\n"}
{"id": "9449267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9449267", "title": "Finnish Kale", "text": "Finnish Kale\n\nThe Finnish Kale (; ; , also \"Suomen romanit\" \"Finnish Romani\") are a group of the Romani people who live primarily in Finland and Sweden.\n\nTheir main languages are Finnish and Finnish Romani.\n\nThe original Finnish Kale were Romani groups who came to Finland via Sweden in the 16th century, leaving the kingdoms of Scotland and England. In 1637, all Romani groups were declared outlaws who could be hanged without trial; this practice was discontinued in 1748. When Finland declared independence in 1917, all Kales received full citizenship and rights. During the Winter War and Continuation War, about a thousand Kales served in the Finnish military.\n\nFinnish Kale commonly follow their traditions in both male and female dress. Finnish Kale women choose personally whether to don the traditional dress or not at around the age of 15 to 20, and the choice is considered final. In case of nontraditional wear, modesty customs are still followed.\n\nBack in the 19th century, Finnish Kale men dressed nearly identical to the ethnic Finn farmers, in a coat, slacks, high boots, and a rimmed hat. In the early 20th century, many Kale men adopted the clothing style associated with the highly regarded profession of horse cab driver. This dress featured a white shirt, a jacket (sometimes in leather), a peaked cap, tall black boots, and baggy dark jodhpur trousers. The use of jodhpurs was very specific for the Finnish Kale, as Romani in other areas would have associated them with the often aggressive military, and thus avoided them.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 70s, the peaked cap fell out of use, and the jodhpurs and boots were replaced with slacks and walking shoes. Jackets are still worn as traditional Kale modesty disallows appearing in only a shirt. Light-colored slacks or jeans are rarely seen. The driver-style dress is used only by some of the older men, or by younger men for special occasions.\n\nThe traditional female Finnish Kale dress stems from the traditional dress worn by the ethnic Finn women. Until the turn of the 20th century, Kale and Finn women dressed much alike in blouses, long skirts, and waist aprons. Over time and with increased wealth, the female Kale dress has become continually more decorated. The dress features a heavy full-length black velvet skirt worn relatively high at the waist, supported by padding, and a puffed blouse, often with prominent ruffles and lace, made of decorative cloth such as with sequins or a metallic sheen.\n\nYoung children wear similar clothing to other ethnicities. Girls approaching maturity, but still below the age to don the traditional dress, often wear long, narrow, dark skirts.\n\nMusic is a central part of Finnish Kale culture, everyday entertainment and domestic life. In Finland, the Kale are known especially for their contribution to the Finnish tango and Schlager music. Kale men have been a vital part of Schlager singers since the start of the genre's popularity in Finland following World War II. At first Kale singers faced direct discrimination, and for instance were banned from performing at certain establishments either on principle or following Kale audience misbehavior. Taisto Tammi and Markus Allan were the two most important earlier Kale performers; both adopted artistic aliases to reduce attention at their ethnic background.\n\nSince then, discrimination has lessened and Kale singers have no need to mask their birth names in order to succeed in the career. Numerous Kale have participated in the \"Tangomarkkinat\", a national tango-singing contest, the winners including Sebastian Ahlgren, Amadeus Lundberg and Marco Lundberg.\n\nThe Kale have traditionally held positions as craftsmen, but the occupation has lost importance in modern times, leading to a significant rise in unemployment within the group. A paper published by the Ministry of Labour states that \"According to labour administration's client register material, 70% of the Roma jobseekers had a primary school or lower secondary school education.\" According to the same paper: \"Education is compulsory in Finland and this obligation applies equally to the Roma as to other citizens, but dropping out of basic education is still common among young Roma, while in the mainstream population it is extremely uncommon.\"\n\nIn 2007 police officer and boxer Riku Lumberg (of Romani heritage) wrote an open letter to his own people, seeking an end to the \"barbaric tradition of blood feud\" in the community. Roma artist Kiba Lumberg has said the following about the culture she grew up in: \"Blood feud and the violence that exists in Roma culture, can't be discussed in Finland. We can't accept that some groups hide behind culture to excuse stepping on human rights and freedom of speech,\" and \"the problem is, that when a Gypsy dares to speak in public about the negative things happening in their own tribe, they face death threats. If a white person opens their mouth, they're accused of racism.\"\n\nThe Finnish Ministry of Justice indicated that in 2005, persons of Romani background (who make up less than 0.2% of the total population of Finland) perpetrated 18% of solved street robbery crimes in Finland - by way of comparison, the slightly larger 14,769 as opposed the 10,000 Somali population were responsible for 12%, while ethnic Finns were close to 51%. According to a 2003 report by the Finnish Department of Corrections, there were an estimated 120 to 140 Romanis in the Finnish prison system. The report discussed ways to combat institutional racism and discrimination within the prison system, as well as ways for improving rehabilitation of Romani inmates through, for example, education programmes and better cooperation with the Romani community at large.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29493489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29493489", "title": "Gautam Khanzada", "text": "Gautam Khanzada\n\nThe Khanzada are a sub-group wirthin the Khanzada community found in eastern Uttar Pradesh in India. They also refer to themselves as Gautam Thakurs. The Gautam Khanzada are Muslim converts from the Gautam community.\n\nAt various times in history, different lineages of the rajputs Khanzada converted to Islam. The rajputs Khanzada of Fatehpur District are said to have converted during the rule of the Mughal Emperor Jehangir. This group of rajputss claim descent from Ratan Sen, who is said to be married to the daughter of Jaichand of Kannauj. Through him descended two brothers, Bijai Singh and Bahrawat Singh. Bijai Singh took the name Bijli Khan, and his descendents are now found mainly in Bhainsauli. They were at one time substantial landowners. Bahrawat Singh, on his conversion to Islam took the name Bahadur Khan, was granted eighty four villages, that former the estate of Tappa Jar. His son Mansoor founded the village of Mansoorpur while another son Sarmast founded the village of Sarmastpur. These two villages plus the village of Garhi Jar and Bahadur pur Meona were home to families who played an important role in the history of Fatehpur District.\n\nAnother prominent rajputs family was that of the Rajahs of Azamgarh. The family claimed descent from Chandra Sen, who had two sons, Sagar Singh and Abhiman Singh. Sagar Singh converted to Islam, and took the name Daulat Khan. He passed his estate on to his nephew Harbans Singh. It was Harbans Singh son Bikramjit Singh, also known as Azam Khan who founded the city of Azamgarh. His brother Azmat founded the town of Azmatgarh. The Rajahs of Azamgarh maintained their independence until their principality fell to the British in the late 18th Century. Another rajputs family in Azamgarh District was that of the Sidhari Babus, who were also substantial landowners. Other minor rajputs Khanzada landowners included the chaudhary of Khutahan Shahgang in Jaunpur District, as well as minor landowners in Sitapur District.\n\nThe sense of Rajput identity amongst the rajputs Khanzada remains strong, especially those of Fatehpur District. In their marriages too, Rajput customs are followed, like bursting of fire crackers and sending specially made laddoos to community members, which form part of marriage celebrations. The community also practices clan exogamy, marrying into other Khanzada communities such as the Dikhit Khanzada. Rajput traditions have eclipsed the religious divide and forged a common identity for the Hindu rajputs Thakurs and the rajputs Muslims. This is seen by the act that Hindu rajputs Thakurs participate in Muslim rajputs functions, while rajputs Muslims participate in intercommunity functions including religious ones. For example, rajputs Muslims help organise Holi milans, Ram Lilas and kirtans.\n"}
{"id": "25668410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25668410", "title": "Gedatsukai", "text": "Gedatsukai\n\n, or Nirwana Association, is a Japanese new religious movement founded in 1929. The number of adherents exceeded 200,000 in the 1990s. It is a syncretic movement, with influences drawing from traditional Shinto and Shingon Buddhist teachings. Its central deity is Gochi Nyorai (Mahāvairocana). Gedatsu is the Japanese term for \"moksha\" or enlightenment\n\nGedatsu-kai was established by Seiken Okano (born Eizo Okano) in 1929. Within the church he is given the title \"Gedatsu Kongō Sonja\". Church members refer to him as \"Kongō Sama\" or \"Sonja\".\n\nHis successor (referred to as Hoshu, or Dharma successor) is Seiho Okano, an affiliate of the revisionist lobby Nippon Kaigi, and the Chairman of the board of directors is Teruo Okano.\n\nGedatsu-kai has branches throughout Japan. The church's administrative headquarters are located in Shinjuku, Tokyo, but its sacred grounds, or \"goreichi\", are located in the founder's home town in Kitamoto, Saitama. There are also several branches in the United States, where the organization is called \"Gedatsu Church\". The largest branches are located in Los Angeles, California, Sacramento, California, and Honolulu, Hawaii.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31113835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31113835", "title": "Gender in youth sports", "text": "Gender in youth sports\n\nGender in youth sports refers to the role and influence that both young male and females have in sports. The participation of youth in sports is a matter that is always trying to be improved and appeal to all genders. There are organizations across the world that are trying to improve the disparity of participation rates between boys and girls.\n\nIn the United States, 8 million 3rd–12th grade girls and 12 million boys play sports Women's Sports Foundation (2011): ERIC. Web. 26 Oct. 2013. There are more boys participating in sports than girls in urban and suburban areas. Studies on third to fifth grade children found that in urban areas 59% of girls participated in sport compared to the 80% of boys who participated. In suburban areas, 81% of girls compared to 89% of boys involved in youth sports, while in rural areas 73% of girls participated compared to 69% of boys (Sabo, 2008). Gender equality for younger children was better in rural and suburban areas than in urban areas. Young urban girls, especially, have a narrower window of opportunity for becoming involved with sports than their male counterparts and girls from suburban and rural communities. 1 in 4 ninth-to 12th-grade urban girls have never participated in organized or team sports, compared to about 1 in 6 urban boys (Sabo and Veliz, 2008).\n\nAge and social class contribute to differences in gender participation. Half of low-income parents agreed that their schools and communities were not meeting the needs of girls as much as those of boys (Hessel, 2000). More African-American and Hispanic parents feel schools and communities are failing their daughters. Boys in immigrant families are more likely to play sports than girls are. Nearly a quarter (23%) of children have at least one parent born outside the United States. Compared to boys, girls in immigrant families report lower rates of athletic participation. Many immigrant parents also hold more traditional attitudes toward girls' and boys' interest in sports (Sabo and Veliz, 2008). However, girls are exploring a wider array of sports and exercise activities than boys do, including traditional, recreational and newly emerging sports such as cheerleading, dance, double dutch and volleyball. Boys focus more on traditional sports and exercise activities, which, most often, take the form of organized school and community sports (Sabo and Veliz, 2008). In short, progress on the gender front in U.S. sports has been made, but it remains uneven, and it is often poor and urban girls who are being left behind.\n\nGirls of color are doubly impacted by both gender and race discrimination in sport (Sabo and Veliz, 2008). Fifteen percent of all girls and 16% of all boys who participate in sports are African-American. 17% of female athletes and 15% of male athletes are Hispanic, while Asian girls and boys comprise 8% and 12%, respectively, of children who play sports. And yet, proportionally fewer girls of color are involved with sports than white girls. Girls of color are also much more likely than their male counterparts to be non-athletes. The same discrepancies across racial and ethnic groups do not exist among boys.\n\nSports like soccer, baseball, and basketball are shared by both girls and boys. However, there are still sports still considered \"boy sports\", such as football and wrestling. More females are involved in sports that were once considered male only sports due to the fact that youth sports organizations such as the National Alliance for Youth Sports have added more mixed gendered opportunities for children over the years (Stiebling 1999). Sport is seen as a status enhancer in school that has led to a difference in participation levels based on factors such as gender, ethnicity, and grade level (Shakib, 2011)\n\nThe rise of organized sports opportunities for girls has increased dramatically since the passage of Title IX in 1972. During the 1972–73 season, the AIAW offered its first seven national championships which included badminton, basketball, golf, gymnastics, swimming & diving, track & field, and volleyball. By the 1980–81 season, the AIAW national program had grown to 39 championships in 17 different sports with 6,000 women's teams and 960 member institutions (Everhart and Pemberton, 2001). The number of female participants continues to rise as variables such as opportunity for involvement, valuing of sports as part of total development and overall fitness for girls and women has increased. Among the many forms of sexism in sports, perhaps the most pervasive and devastating is the lack of equal opportunities for girls to compete in programs similar to those offered for boys (Seefeldt, V., Ewing, M. E, 1995).\n\nDespite the tremendous gains in sports participation made by girls and women during the last 30 years, there is still a persistent gap in the enrollment figures between males and females. The participation of girls is currently only 39% of the total participation in interscholastic athletics. There has been a slow but steady climb toward equity in the percent of female participants, from 32% of the males' participation in 1973–74 to 63% in 1994–95 (Hessel, 2000). Generally more boys attend PE classes than girls, especially in urban and rural schools. (Sabo and Veliz, 2008) Urban girls are left out when it comes to physical education (PE) in the United States, with 84% report having no PE classes at all in the 11th and 12th grades. Rural girls in the same grades are not far behind with 68% reporting no PE classes. Across the country, young low-income children both girls and boys are undeserved with regard to school-based physical education.\n\nGirls' sports have been defined and shaped by \"men's values, men's understanding of the world, and men's experiences-all of which suppress the development and expression of female values\" (Blinde, 1989). The history and evolution of gendered sports substantiates this statement and provides evidence of gender bias in sports as well as sport culture created and sustained to maintain that bias. Girls have had to adapt within the established male model. Boys continue to receive the bulk of sport participation opportunities, scholarships, and access to better coaching (Everhart and Pemberton, 2001). These gains for boys has resulted in the loss of women's sport culture, therefore merging female sports model into the existing male sport model. The ability for girls to play has led to the reduction of female sport administrative leadership and female coaches.\n\nThe gendered participation in youth sports is seen not only by the separating of boys and girls, but also in the roles of the adults who are contributing to the teams as volunteers. Messner and Bozada-Deas studied yearbooks from a group of 538 youth baseball and softball teams and 1,490 from the American Youth Soccer Organization (AYSO) in 1999 to 2007. Only 13.4% of the teams had women coaches on the soccer team and only 5.9% of the team's management in baseball and softball were women. There are slots reserved just for team parents, whose sole duty is to take care of snacks, make phone calls to organize team events, hold fundraising, and providing support for the team players, majority women. Men holding the title of team parent is non-existent.\n\nMen prefer not to volunteer for team parent positions due to the responsibilities placed on them compared to those of the coach. Women's roles in sports are to hold the position of team parent, while men are usually head coach or assistant coach. Team parents are often labeled “team mom”, making this position more likely for female parents than male parents. The gendered assumption of team parent being called “team mom” and the idea of having a “team dad” is ridiculous and often laughed at. Therefore when given the opportunity to volunteer, more women choose to be team parents, while men will most likely choose to be assistant coaches. For men, coaching involves more masculine tasks, involving leadership over the entire team, setting up games, practices, and trained athletes.\n\nFor girl athletes, the mentors they mentioned in exercise and sports were their coaches and physical education teachers. For boys, dads and coaches topped the list of main mentors. 46% of boys and 28% of girls credit their father for teaching them “the most” about sports and exercise. While mothers and fathers provide similar levels of encouragement and support for both their daughters and sons, many girls may be shortchanged by dads who channel more energy into mentoring their sons than their daughters (Sabo and Veliz 2008).\n\nThe gender gap in physical education: Urban girls are the have-nots of physical education (PE) in the United States, with 84% report having no PE classes at all in the 11th and 12th grades. Rural girls in the same grades are not far behind with 68% reporting no PE classes. Across the country, young low-income children both girls and boys are underserved with regard to school-based physical education. Generally more boys attend PE classes than girls, especially in urban and rural schools. (Sabo and Veliz 2008)\n\nIn 1972, more than 90% of women's programs were administered and directed by women. By 1994, less than 21% of those same programs were administered/directed by a female, and by 1999 the percent of female head athletic administrators had dropped to 17.8% (Everhart and Pemberton, 2001). Men began applying for, and getting, women's coaching positions. In 1972, over 90% of the coaches who coached women's sports were female. By 1999, 45.6% of women's sports coaches were female. Coaching opportunities for men in women's sports were increasing significantly. Conversely, the number of female coaches in men's sports has not seen the same growth. About 2% of NCAA men's programs have a female coach at the helm (Everhart and Pemberton, 2001).\n\nMessner and Bozada-Deas studied yearbooks from a group of 538 youth baseball and softball teams and 1,490 from the American Youth Soccer Organization (AYSO) in 1999 to 2007. Only 13.4% of the teams had women coaches on the soccer team and only 5.9% of the team's management in baseball and softball were women. Team parents, whose sole duty is to take care of snacks, make phone calls to organize team events, hold fundraising, and providing support for the team players are predominantly filled by women.\nMen prefer not to volunteer for team parent positions due to the responsibilities placed on them compared to those of the coach. Women's roles in sports are to hold the position of team parent, while men are usually head coach or assistant coach. Team parents are often labeled \"team mom\", making this position more likely for female parents than male parents. points out how men do not apply for team parent positions because it is seen as feminine, making it undesirable and saves them from embarrassment or ridicule.\n\nFor girl athletes, the mentors they mentioned in exercise and sports were their coaches and physical education teachers. For boys, dads and coaches topped the list of main mentors. 46% of boys and 28% of girls credit their father for teaching them “the most” about sports and exercise. While mothers and fathers provide similar levels of encouragement and support for both their daughters and sons, many girls may be shortchanged by dads who channel more energy into mentoring their sons than their daughters (Sabo and Veliz, 2008).\n\nMore parents in lower-income families indicated that girls were not getting similar support and resources in athletics as boys. Young urban girls, especially, have a narrower window of opportunity for becoming involved with sports than their male counterparts and girls from suburban and rural communities. 1 in 4 ninth-to 12th-grade girls have never participated in organized or team sports in urban schools, compared to about 1 in 6 urban boys (Sabo and Veliz 2008). Half of low-income parents agreed that their schools and communities were not meeting the needs of girls as much as those of boys compared with about 1/3 of middle-and upper-income parents (Hessel 2000). While a majority of parents say they want similar levels of athletic opportunity for their daughters and sons, many believe that their schools and communities are failing to deliver the goods. Youth sports are racially and ethnically diverse. 15% of all girls and 16% of all boys who participate in sports are African-American. 17% of female athletes and 15% of male athletes are Hispanic, while Asian girls and boys comprise 8% and 12%, respectively, of children who play sports. And yet, proportionally fewer girls of color are involved with sports than white girls. Girls of color are also much more likely than their male counterparts to be non-athletes. The same discrepancies across racial and ethnic groups do not exist among boys. Girls of color are doubly hit by both gender and race discrimination in sport (Sabo and Veliz 2008). Many parents are aware that girls are getting fewer opportunities in sports and physical activity than boys are. More African-American and Hispanic parents feel schools and communities are failing their daughters. Also boys in immigrant families are more than likely to play sports than girls to play sports. Nearly a quarter (23%) of children have at least one parent born outside the United States. Compared to boys, girls in immigrant families report lower rates of athletic participation. Many immigrant parents also hold more traditional attitudes toward girls' and boys' interest in sports (Sabo and Veliz 2008). However, girls are exploring a wider array of sports and exercise activities than boys do, including traditional, recreational and newly emerging sports such as cheerleading, dance, Double Dutch and volleyball. Boys focus more on traditional sports and exercise activities, which, most often, take the form of organized school and community sports (Sabo and Veliz 2008).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18117863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18117863", "title": "Greater Awyu languages", "text": "Greater Awyu languages\n\nThe Greater Awyu languages, known in earlier and more limited classifications as Awyu–Dumut or Awyu–Ndumut, and also known by the geographical label of Digul River languages, are a family of perhaps a dozen Trans–New Guinea languages spoken in eastern West Papua. Six of the languages are sufficiently attested for a basic description; it is not clear how many of the additional names (in parentheses below) may be separate languages.\n\nThe classification below is based on Usher and de Vries et al. (2012), who used morphological innovations to determine relatedness, as these can be obscured by loans.\n\n\nSawi is classified on pronominal data, as the morphological data used for the rest of the family is not available. The pronouns of the Awyu–Dumut branch are:\nThe suffix *-p and the change of the final TNG *a vowel to *u do not appear in the possessive pronouns: \"*na, *ga, *ya/wa, *na-ga, *ga-ga, *ya-ga\".\n\nVarious other languages can be found in the literature. Ario (Sumagaxe) is listed in Wurm, Foley, etc., but not in the University of Amsterdam survey and has been dropped by \"Ethnologue\". \"Ethnologue\" lists a 'Central Awyu', but this is not attested as a distinct language (U. Amsterdam). In general, the names in \"Ethnologue\" are quite confused, and older editions speak of names from Wurm (1982), such as \"Mapi, Kia, Upper Digul, Upper Kaeme\", which are names of language surveys along the rivers of those names, and may actually refer to Ok languages rather than to Awyu.\n\nvan den Heuvel & Fedden (2014) argue that Greater Awyu and Greater Ok are not genetically related, but that their similarities are due to intensive contact.\n\nThe Awyu (pronounced like English \"Ow you\") and Awyu–Dumut families were identified by Peter Drabbe in the 1950s.\n\nVoorhoeve included them in his proposed Central and South New Guinea group. As part of Central and South New Guinea, they form part of the original proposal for Trans–New Guinea.\n\n"}
{"id": "28173590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28173590", "title": "Hela Mehtar", "text": "Hela Mehtar\n\nThe Hela are a Sunni Muslim community found in the state of Rajasthan in India.\n\nThe Hela are a community of musicians. They claim to have come from Arabia, sometime in the distant past. The Hela are found in the districts of udaipur Bundi, Kota, Tonk and Jhalawar. They speak the Hadoti dialect of Hindi. The Hela are strictly endogamous, and marry close kin.\n\nTheir traditional occupation was musicians,instrumentalists,singers etc. Many are now employed in govt sector. They are a landless community, and many are employed as wage labourers. Now Hela lives in udaipur ujjain bundi dhar susner The Hela are well versed inragas such as dadri and thumri, but practice many folk beliefs.\n\n"}
{"id": "17919827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17919827", "title": "I søkelyset", "text": "I søkelyset\n\nI søkelyset was a television series shown on TVNorge in 1990 and 1991 presented by Tore Sandberg. \n\nIn the programme, the presenter put the searchlight onto unsolved crimes, where witnesses could ring in with tip-offs. The programme was made by Sandberg's own firm, Tore Sandberg A/S together with the Oslo police department.\n"}
{"id": "12795806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12795806", "title": "Kenneth Foster", "text": "Kenneth Foster\n\nKenneth Foster, Jr. (born October 22, 1976) is a prisoner formerly on death row in Texas, convicted under the law of parties. He was convicted of murdering Michael LaHood in August 1996. His conviction and execution were contested because he was convicted under the Texas Law of Parties, not for physically committing the crime.\n\nFoster, Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) death row #999232, was received on death row on July 1, 1997. He was initially located in the Ellis Unit, but was transferred to the Allan B. Polunsky Unit (formerly the Terrell Unit) in 1999.\n\nTexas Governor Rick Perry commuted the death sentence to life imprisonment only six hours before the execution was scheduled to take place on August 30, 2007. Foster will be eligible for parole in 2036. He is currently incarcerated at the Stiles Facility of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice and is assigned to the facility's administrative segregation.\n\n"}
{"id": "35271329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35271329", "title": "Koli language", "text": "Koli language\n\nKoli is a dialect cluster of Pakistan and India that is closely related to Gujarati. See Parkari Koli for details.\n"}
{"id": "31645008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31645008", "title": "Korea National College of Agriculture and Fisheries", "text": "Korea National College of Agriculture and Fisheries\n\nKorea National College of Agriculture and Fisheries (Acronym: KNCAF; Korean, , \"Hanguk Nongsusan Daehak\") is a national founded in 1997. located in Jeonju, Republic of Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "37289158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37289158", "title": "Kumak language", "text": "Kumak language\n\nKumak, also known as Nêlêmwa-Nixumwak after its two dialects, is a Kanak language of northern New Caledonia.\n"}
{"id": "20084909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20084909", "title": "Languages of the Pitcairn Islands", "text": "Languages of the Pitcairn Islands\n\nThere are two languages of the Pitcairn Islands, English and Pitkern.\n\nPitkern is a creole language based on eighteenth-century English and Tahitian and spoken by about fifty people inland not to mention those outside Adamstown, mostly dozens of children leaving Pitcairn while becoming adults. It is partly derived from eighteenth-century English because Pitcairn Island was settled by the Bounty mutineers in the eighteenth century, and they brought some people from Taihiti with them.\n\nPitkern is closely related to Norfuk spoken on Norfolk Island, where some descendants of the mutineers subsequently settled.\n\n"}
{"id": "46648997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46648997", "title": "List of MUFON Chapters", "text": "List of MUFON Chapters\n\nThis is a list of Mutual UFO Network chapters.\nThe Mutual UFO Network (MUFON) investigates cases of alleged UFO sightings. MUFON has a chapter in every state in the United States. The organization also maintains chapters in several international locations.\n"}
{"id": "10034710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10034710", "title": "List of National Socialist publishers", "text": "List of National Socialist publishers\n\nThis is an overview of publishers that mainly published National Socialist works until the end of the Second World War.\n"}
{"id": "51908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51908", "title": "Luke Helder", "text": "Luke Helder\n\nLucas John \"Luke\" Helder (born May 5, 1981) is a former University of Wisconsin–Stout student from Pine Island, Minnesota, who earned notoriety as the Midwest Pipe Bomber in May 2002.\n\nWhile attending the University of Wisconsin–Stout and living in an apartment in Menomonie, Wisconsin, Helder planned to plant pipe bombs in mailboxes across the United States to create a smiley face shape on the United States map. The bombs, which were packed with BBs and nails, were rigged to explode as the mailboxes were opened. Completed and rigged bombs were found in Nebraska, Colorado, Texas, Illinois and Iowa. In Iowa, six people, including four mail carriers, were injured when the bombs detonated. Ultimately, Helder planted 18 bombs and covered 3,200 miles. He was eventually captured in rural Nevada before he managed to complete the full smile. At the time of his arrest, police were looking for an unknown suspect driving a black Honda Accord and newspapers reported that he was wearing a Kurt Cobain T-shirt. The bombings were heavily covered by the United States media.\n\nWhile Helder was not at the top of his college class, his teachers described him as a reasonably good, quiet and polite student, and at first there was confusion as to what the motivation for the bombings could be. Within the year prior to his arrest, Helder had become passionate about astral projection techniques and came to believe that death of the flesh and body is not the end of existence, as evidenced by the manifesto he sent to \"The Badger Herald\" of the University of Wisconsin–Madison at the beginning of the bombing spree. The essay also includes statements such as \"I'm taking very drastic measure in attempt to provide this information to you... I will die/change in the end for this, but that's ok, hahaha paradise awaits! I'm dismissing a few individuals from reality, to change all of you for the better\"\n\nNotes attached to the bombs went on to denounce government control over daily lives, deny that anyone who had died was really dead, and promised more of the same kind of message.\n\nIn April 2004, a federal judge found Helder incompetent to stand trial. While a judge could free Helder if doctors find he is not a threat to society, legal experts doubt this possibility due to the violent nature of his crimes. He has been diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder.\n\nIn 2013, a federal judge ordered Helder re-evaluated for competency to stand trial. Helder remains incarcerated in the Federal Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota.\n\nPrior to his bombing spree, Helder was a member of Apathy, a Rochester, Minnesota, three-piece grunge band. Although the band was successful only on a local scale, it recorded a CD named \"Sacks of People\" at the end of their first summer together, which they funded and released themselves.\n\nWhen the news broke that Helder was the pipe bomber, the media made significant mention of his status as a musician. Many music critics scrambled to acquire copies of Apathy's CD, some of which were auctioned on eBay for as much as $200.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5932950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5932950", "title": "Maennerchor", "text": "Maennerchor\n\nMännerchor or Maennerchor (, \"men's chorus\") is the name given to German social clubs, primarily in the northeastern United States, Pennsylvania in particular. The earliest forms of these clubs where \"singing societies\" that perpetuated traditional choral music, both German and German-American culture, providing \"Gemuetlichkeit\" for new immigrants. Such clubs are typically attended by men and many function as a restaurant and bar, serving German foods and beers.\n\nA Maennerchor was established in Cincinnati in 1857 with the merging of the Liedertafel, the Saengerbund and the Germanic Societies; it was the oldest musical organization of the city. The Indianapolis Maennerchor. founded in 1854 in Indianapolis, Indiana, is another such organization.\n\nThe Damenchor often serves as the Maennerchor auxiliary for women.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "698612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=698612", "title": "Maghrebi Arabic", "text": "Maghrebi Arabic\n\nMaghrebi Arabic (Western Arabic; as opposed to Eastern Arabic or Mashriqi Arabic) is an Arabic dialect continuum spoken in the Maghreb region, in Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Western Sahara, and Mauritania. It includes Moroccan, Algerian, Tunisian, Libyan, and Hassaniya Arabic. Speakers of Maghrebi Arabic call their language Derja, Derija or Darija (; meaning \"to rise or advance step by step\"). This serves to differentiate the spoken vernacular from Modern Standard Arabic. As the Maltese language is believed to have been immediately derived from Siculo-Arabic and ultimately from Tunisian Arabic, it contains some typical Maghrebi Arabic areal characteristics.\n\n\n\"Darija\", \"Derija\" or \"Delja\" () means \"everyday/colloquial language\"; it is also rendered as \"\", \"derija\" or \"darja\". It refers to any of the varieties of colloquial Maghrebi Arabic. Although it is also common in Algeria and Tunisia to refer to the Maghrebi Arabic varieties directly as languages, similarly it is also common in Egypt and Lebanon to refer to the Mashriqi Arabic varieties directly as languages. For instance, Algerian Arabic would be referred as \"Dzayri\" (Algerian) and Tunisian Arabic as \"Tounsi\" (Tunisian), and Egyptian Arabic would be referred as \"Masri\" (Egyptian) and Lebanese Arabic as \"Lubnani\" (Lebanese).\n\nIn contrast, the colloquial dialects of more eastern Arab countries, such as Egypt, Jordan and Sudan, are usually known as \"\" (), though Egyptians may also refer to their dialects as \"al-logha-d-darga\".\n\nThe varieties of Maghrebi Arabic (Darija) have a significant degree of mutual intelligibility, especially between geographically adjacent ones (such as local dialects spoken in Eastern Morocco and Western Algeria or Eastern Algeria and North Tunisia or South Tunisia and Western Libya), but hardly between Moroccan and Tunisian Darija. Conversely, Moroccan Darija, Tunisian Derja and particularly Algerian Derja cannot be understood by Eastern Arabic speakers (from Egypt, Sudan, Levant, Iraq, and Arabian peninsula) in general as they derive from different substratums and a mixture of many languages (Berber, Latin (African Romance), Old Arabic, Turkish, French, Spanish, Mozarabic, Italian, and Niger-Congo languages). Some linguists like Charles A. Ferguson, William Marçais consider Maghrebi Arabic Darija an independent language.\n\nMaghrebi Arabic continues to evolve by integrating new French or English words, notably in technical fields, or by replacing old French and Italian/Spanish ones with Modern Standard Arabic words within some circles; more educated and upper-class people who code-switch between Maghrebi Arabic and Modern Standard Arabic have more French and Italian/Spanish loanwords, especially the latter came from the time of al-Andalus. Maghrebi dialects all use \"n-\" as the first-person singular prefix on verbs, distinguishing them from Levantine dialects and Modern Standard Arabic.\n\nModern Standard Arabic ( \"al-Fusḥā\") is the primary language used in the government, legislation and judiciary of countries in the Maghreb. Maghrebi Arabic is mainly a spoken and vernacular language, although it occasionally appears in entertainment and advertising in urban areas of Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia. In Algeria, where Maghrebi Arabic was taught as a separate subject under French colonization, some textbooks in the language exist but they are no longer officially endorsed by the Algerian authorities. Maghrebi Arabic contains a Berber substratum, which represents the languages originally spoken by the native populations of the Maghreb prior to their adoption of Arabic. The dialect may also possess a Punic substrate. Additionally, Maghrebi Arabic has a Latin substratum, which may have been derived from the African Romance that was used as an urban lingua franca during the Byzantine Empire period.\n\nMaghrebi Arabic speakers frequently borrow words from French (in Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia), Spanish (in Morocco) and Italian (in Libya and Tunisia) and conjugate them according to the rules of their dialects with some exceptions (like passive voice for example). Since it is not always written, there is no standard and it is free to change quickly and to pick up new vocabulary from neighbouring languages. This is somewhat similar to what happened to Middle English after the Norman conquest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44928602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44928602", "title": "Manhattan Club (social club)", "text": "Manhattan Club (social club)\n\nThe Manhattan Club was a social club in Manhattan, New York founded in 1865 and dissolved around 1979.\n\nDesigned to be the Democratic answer to the Union Club, its prominent members included Samuel J. Tilden, August Belmont, Grover Cleveland, Alfred E. Smith, Herbert H. Lehman, Jimmy Walker and Robert F. Wagner Other prominent members included Augustus Schell, Dean Richmond and John T. Hoffman. In 1885 it was listed as the residence of Robert Barnwell Roosevelt, the uncle of Theodore Roosevelt. The Manhattan Club was organized on September 25, 1865 at Delmonico's on 14th Street at Fifth Avenue. Its first home was the Benkard House at 96 Fifth Avenue near the corner of 15th Street (called \"Old 96\" by members), followed by the A.T. Stewart Mansion on 34th Street at Fifth Avenue. From 1899 to 1966, it occupied the Jerome Mansion, at which time the building was sold to a developer and subsequently was torn down. The Manhattan Club then moved to a suite of rooms at the Barclay Hotel previously occupied by the Cornell Club and thereafter functioned mainly as a luncheon club. Around 1979, its suites were converted into conference rooms and the Manhattan Club was closed.\n\nDespite having been conceived as a Democratic Party bastion during the U.S. Civil War, in its later days, the members of the Manhattan Club were often decidedly Republican in sympathies. In 1954, a survey of the men's social clubs of Manhattan noted that the club had become \"ninety percent Republican.\" A half-century earlier, the significant majority of members supported Republican William McKinley's bid for President of the United States, triggering letters of resignation from members who wanted it to be a Democratic Club.\n\nA popular history suggests that the Manhattan cocktail originated at the club in the early 1870s, where it was invented by Dr. Iain Marshall for a banquet hosted by Jennie Jerome (Lady Randolph Churchill, Winston's mother) in honor of presidential candidate Samuel J. Tilden. The success of the banquet made the drink fashionable, later prompting several people to request the drink by referring to the name of the club where it originated—\"the \"Manhattan\" cocktail\".\n\nThe exterior of the club was featured in an 1891 painting by Childe Hassam when it was at the Stewart Mansion.\n\nOn June 26, 1906, Stanford White was shot to death by Harry K. Thaw, the eccentric millionaire, after leaving the Manhattan Club. The murder \ntook place three blocks south in what was then Madison Square Garden.\n"}
{"id": "34585168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34585168", "title": "Mashan Miao", "text": "Mashan Miao\n\nMang, or Mashan Miao also known as Mashan Hmong (麻山 \"máshān\"), is a Miao language of China. The endonym is \"Mang\", similar to other West Hmongic languages such as Mong.\n\nMang was classified as a branch of Western Hmongic in Wang (1985), who listed four varieties. Matisoff (2001) gave these four varieties the status of separate languages, and, conservatively, did not retain them as a single group within West Hmongic. Li Yunbing (2000) added two minor varieties which had been left unclassified in Wang, Southeastern (Strecker's \"Luodian Muyin\") and Southwestern (\"Wangmo\").\n\n\nA pinyin alphabet had been created for Mang in 1985, but proved to have deficiencies. Wu and Yang (2010) report the creation of a new alphabet, albeit a tentative one, based on the Central Mang dialect of Ziyun County, \"Zōngdì\" 宗地 township, \"Dàdìbà\" 大地坝 village.\n\nConsonants, in pinyin, are:\nThe Latin voiced/voiceless opposition has been coopted to indicate aspiration, as usual in pinyin alphabets.\n\nCorrespondences between Central Mang dialects include Dadiba retroflex \"dr, tr\" with dental \"z, c\" in another village of the same Zongdi township, Sanjiao (三脚 \"Sānjiǎo\"). The other five varieties of Mang have more palatalized initials than Central Mang, though these can be transcribed as medial \"-i-\". The onsets \"by, py, nby, my\" are pronounced in Central Mang and in the other five Mang varieties.\n\nVowels and finals, including those needed for Chinese loans, are:\n\nMost Central Mang and Western Mang dialects have eleven to thirteen tones. Compared to the eight tone categories of other Western Hmongic languages, the odd-numbered tones are each split into two. The tones of at least three villages of Central Mang have been documented: Dadiba (Wu & Yang 2010), Jiaotuozhai (Wang & Mao 1995; Li 2000), and Jingshuiping (Xian 1990; Mortensen 2006), all in the Zongdi township of Ziyun County. They lie several kilometers apart and have minor differences.\n\nAlthough some pairs of tones (such as tones 6 and 7b) have the same value when pronounced alone, they behave differently with regard to tone sandhi and should be treated as different phonologically. Tones also interact with phonation types and vowel quality. Jiaotuozhai tones 4 and 6 are breathy voiced and have higher vowels.\n"}
{"id": "23131016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23131016", "title": "Meshrep", "text": "Meshrep\n\nA meshrep (; , lit. \"harvest festival\") is a traditional male Uyghur gathering that typically includes \"poetry, music, dance, and conversation within a structural context\". Meshreps typically include music of the Muqam variety and ad-hoc tribunals on moral questions. \"Meshrep\" may also refer to the Islamic youth groups that became a political force in Ili, Xinjiang in the 1990s. The voluntary societies used extralegal means such as boycotts to enforce what they saw as Islamic mores against gambling, alcohol and drug abuse among young Uyghur men. Amid continuing political campaigns and antigovernment protests launched by these meshrep, the Xinjiang government cracked down on key religious leaders, including meshrep leaders, leading to urban violence in 1997 and the flight of meshrep leaders to Kazakhstan. In November 2010, China successfully petitioned UNESCO to list the traditional meshrep in its List of Intangible Cultural Heritage in Need of Urgent Safeguarding.\n\nThe practice of meshrep is diverse among Uyghur communities, but there are some commonalities. Meshrep are usually held in the courtyard of one of the members' family home. Traditionally, meshrep were only held on the harvest, and on weddings, circumcisions, and girls' comings of age. Each meshrep consists of a leader (\"yigit bashi\", an older man), a disciplinarian (\"passip begi\"), and 30 younger men (\"ottuz oghul\"), who sit on a carpet according to seniority. As the meshreps were primarily male bonding events, the women and children of the host's family were to stay inside the house and only interact with the men to bring them food or to otherwise serve them. Music is an essential component of the meshrep, and during the meshrep, men play progressively faster muqam melodies on the dutar while others compete to see who could perform whirling circle dances for the longest period of time. Some meshrep also feature songs, skits, and lectures from religious leaders. Aside from the entertainment value of the meshrep, these groups also formed part of the informal governance structure of Uyghur communities, and still do outside of China. Inside the meshrep, the moral transgressions of the men, such as polygamy, are publicly scolded and the men humiliated by slapping or caning. There is no limit on the length or attendance of the meshrep, and the Dolan Uyghurs were famed for hosting meshrep \"attended by hundreds of people, and often last[ing] the whole night\".\n\nThe meshrep is attested to in modern Chinese literature as early as 1942, in the socialist realist play \"Gulnissa\", where the meshrep is portrayed as a secular, coeducational youth culture. During that time, the meshrep in Yining (Ghulja) consisted of musical performances and \"informal court hearings\" for community dissidents. Uyghurs in Kazakhstan began practicing the meshrep as early as the 1970s. After China's economic reforms in the 1980s, a middle class began to develop in China, and ordinary Chinese had more leisure time and discretionary income. At the same time, political and religious controls were loosening, and Chinese officials encouraged the building of mosques and the veiling of women. Contemporary developments in the region, including the global Islamic revival and the independence of the Soviet Central Asian states in 1992, inspired Uyghur independence feeling and the establishment of militant groups like the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM). Still, in the 1990s, the social and political life in the city of Yining (Ghulja) was predominantly secular. In Yining, young Uyghur men would informally gather, usually once a week, to drink baijiu, perform poetry and music, and otherwise socialize. These gatherings, called \"olturax\", grew to perform important political and economic functions in Yining life.\n\nIslamic youth groups organized in the evenings grew in opposition to and eventually eclipsed the olturax, also serving \"the foci for Uyghur resistance to Chinese rule\". Calling themselves \"meshreps\", the clubs criticized the secular nature of the olturax and the alcohol consumption within as un-Islamic. These meshreps, which have been compared to the Catholic Knights of Columbus, were more formal than the olturax: tasked with providing \"moral guidance\", they kept strict membership lists and organized regular meetings, wherein members would read passages from the Quran. Meshrep practitioners were held to a strict code of Islamic conduct in their daily lives, including abstinence from alcohol and hashish. Initiation into the meshrep involved hazing rituals, and once admitted, men who did not continue to meet the group's standards of Muslim piety were given corporal punishment, such as caning, or petty fines by the group. These practices diverged significantly from the meshrep's secular tradition, and thus revived the meshrep in Yining with \"new religious and nationalist meanings\".\n\nInitially, both social reformers and the local government supported the meshreps, as they provided an outlet for young Uyghur men in an environment rife with unemployment, alcoholism, drug abuse, and gambling. But as the popularity of meshrep grew, meshrep groups became more assertive in their opposition to the government's goals. In the spring and summer of 1995, meshreps started a campaign of boycotts and intimidation against shops that sold liquor in Yining and the surrounding villages. Fearing the meshrep's political potential, Xinjiang authorities banned the gatherings in July 1995. However, most meshrep groups continued to operate in secret, or delegated their morals enforcement duties to legal neighborhood watch groups. When a football game organized by underground meshrep teams was canceled by authorities, the meshrep mobilized several hundred Uyghur men to march across government offices and to gather in Yining's main plaza, although there was no violence and the crowd dispersed after a few days. Authorities then drew a distinction between \"healthy, traditional\" meshrep and an \"illicit\" political and religious meshrep, encouraging the former but cracking down on the latter. In 1997, a national anticrime campaign resulted in the arrests of meshrep leaders and talibes in Yining, leading to mass riots called the Ghulja Incident.\n\nAfter the Ghulja Incident, local antigovernment Uyghurs migrated to Almaty in Kazakhstan, where they continued to practice the meshrep as they had in Ili. In November 2010, UNESCO approved China' nomination of the meshrep to the List of Intangible Cultural Heritage in Need of Urgent Safeguarding.\n"}
{"id": "1631652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1631652", "title": "Nordic race", "text": "Nordic race\n\nThe Nordic race was one of the putative sub-races into which some late-19th to mid-20th-century anthropologists divided the Caucasian race. People of the Nordic type were to be mostly found in Scandinavia, Northwestern Europe, and countries surrounding the Baltic Sea, such as Germans and Finnic peoples. The psychological traits of Nordics were described as truthful, equitable, competitive, naïve, reserved, and individualistic. Other supposed sub-races were the Alpine race, Dinaric race, East Baltic race, and the Mediterranean race.\n\nNordicism is an ideology of racial separatism which views Nordics as an endangered and superior racial group, most notably outlined in Madison Grant's book \"The Passing of the Great Race\", Arthur de Gobineau's \"An Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races\", and Houston Stewart Chamberlain's \"The Foundations of the Nineteenth Century\". This ideology was popular in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in Northwestern, Central, and Northern European countries as well as in North America and Australia. The idea of the Nordic phenotype being superior to others was originally embraced as \"Teutonicism\" in Germany, \"Anglo-Saxonism\" in England and the United States, and \"Gallicism\" in France. The notion of the superiority of the \"Nordic race\" and the Northwestern European nations associated with this supposed race influenced the United States' Immigration Act of 1924 (which effectively banned or severely limited the immigration of Italians, Jews, and other Southern and Eastern Europeans) and the later Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 and was present in other countries outside of Northwestern Europe such as Australia, Canada, and South Africa. By the 1930s, the Nazis claimed that the Nordic race was the most superior of the \"Aryan race\" and constituted a master race (\"Herrenvolk\").\n\nIn the mid-19th century, scientific racism developed the theory of Aryanism, holding that Europeans (\"Aryans\") were an innately superior branch of humanity , responsible for most of its greatest achievements. Aryanism was derived from the idea that the original speakers of the Indo-European languages constituted a distinctive race or subrace of the larger Caucasian race.\nIts principal proponent was Arthur de Gobineau in his \"Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races\" (1855). Though Gobineau did not equate Nordic peoples with Aryans, he argued that Germanic people were the best modern representatives of the Aryan race. Adapting the comments of Tacitus and other Roman writers, he argued that \"pure\" Northerners regenerated Europe after the Roman Empire declined due to racial \"dilution\" of its leadership.\nBy the 1880s a number of linguists and anthropologists argued that the Aryans themselves had originated somewhere in northern Europe. Theodor Poesche proposed that the Aryans originated in the vast Rokitno, or Pinsk Marshes, then in the Russian Empire, now covering much of the southern part of Belarus and the north-west of the Ukraine, but it was Karl Penka who popularised the idea that the Aryans had emerged in Scandinavia and could be identified by the distinctive Nordic characteristics of blond hair and blue eyes.\n\nThe biologist Thomas Henry Huxley agreed with him, coining the term \"Xanthochroi\" to refer to fair-skinned Europeans, as opposed to darker Mediterranean peoples, whom Huxley called \"Melanochroi\". It was Huxley who also concluded that the Melanochroi (Peoples of the Mediterranean race), who he described as \"dark whites\", are of a mixture of the Xanthochroi and Australioids.\n\nThis distinction was repeated by Charles Morris in his book \"The Aryan Race\" (1888), which argued that the original Aryans could be identified by their blond hair and other Nordic features, such as dolichocephaly (long skull). The argument was given extra impetus by the French anthropologist Vacher de Lapouge in his book \"L’Aryen\", in which he argued that the \"dolichocephalic-blond\" peoples were natural leaders, destined to rule over more brachycephalic (short-skulled) peoples.\n\nThe philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche also referred in his writings to \"blond beasts\": amoral adventurers who were supposed to be the progenitors of creative cultures. In \"On the Genealogy of Morals\" (1887), he wrote, \"In Latin malus ... could indicate the vulgar man as the dark one, especially as the black-haired one, as the pre-Aryan dweller of the Italian soil which distinguished itself most clearly through his colour from the blonds who became their masters, namely the Aryan conquering race.\"\n\nIt was the Russian-born French anthropologist Joseph Deniker that initially proposed \"nordique\" (meaning simply \"northern\") as an \"ethnic group\" (a term that he coined).\nHe defined \"nordique\" by a set of physical characteristics: The concurrence of somewhat wavy hair, light eyes, reddish skin, tall stature and a dolichocephalic skull. Of six 'Caucasian' groups Deniker accommodated four into secondary ethnic groups, all of which he considered intermediate to the Nordic: \"Northwestern\", \"Sub-Nordic\", \"Vistula\" and \"Sub-Adriatic\", respectively.\n\nAmerican economist William Z. Ripley purported to define a \"Teutonic race\" in his book \"The Races of Europe\" (1899). He divided Europeans into three main subcategories: Teutonic (\"teutonisch\"), Alpine and Mediterranean. According to Ripley the \"Teutonic race\" resided in Scandinavia, Northern France, northern Germany, Baltic states and East Prussia, northern Poland, northern Russia, Britain, Ireland, parts of Central and Eastern Europe and was typified by light hair, light skin, blue eyes, tall stature, a narrow nose, and slender body type. Georges Vacher de Lapouge had called this race \"Homo Europaeus\".\n\nMadison Grant, in his book \"The Passing of the Great Race\", took up Ripley's classification. He described a \"Nordic\" or \"Baltic\" type: \"long skulled, very tall, fair skinned, with blond, brown or red hair and light coloured eyes. The Nordics inhabit the countries around the North and Baltic Seas and include not only the great Scandinavian and Teutonic groups, but also other early peoples who first appear in southern Europe and in Asia as representatives of Aryan language and culture.\"\n\nAccording to Grant, the \"Alpine race\", shorter in stature, darker in colouring, with a rounder head, predominated in Central and Eastern Europe through to Turkey and the Eurasian steppes of Central Asia and Southern Russia. The \"Mediterranean race\", with dark hair and eyes, aquiline nose, swarthy complexion, moderate-to-short stature, and moderate or long skull was said to be prevalent in Southern Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa.\n\nBy 1902 the German archaeologist Gustaf Kossinna identified the original Aryans (Proto-Indo-Europeans) with the north German Corded Ware culture, an argument that gained in currency over the following two decades. He placed the Indo-European Urheimat in Schleswig-Holstein, arguing that they had expanded across Europe from there. By the early 20th century this theory was well established, though far from universally accepted. Sociologists were soon using the concept of a \"blond race\" to model the migrations of the supposedly more entrepreneurial and innovative components of European populations. As late as 1939 Carleton Coon wrote that \"The Poles who came to the United States during the 19th century, and the early decades of the 20th, did not represent a cross-section of the Polish population, but a taller, blonder, longer-headed group than the Poles as a whole.\" The \"high brow\"/\"low brow\" distinction, derived from such theories, also became enshrined in language.\n\nIt was the already mentioned work of sociologist/economist William Z. Ripley which popularized the idea of three biological European races. Ripley borrowed Deniker's terminology of Nordic (he had previously used the term \"Teuton\"); his division of the European races relied on a variety of anthropometric measurements, but focused especially on their cephalic index and stature.\n\nCompared to Deniker, Ripley advocated a simplified racial view and proposed a single \"Teutonic\" race linked to geographic areas where Nordic-like characteristics predominate, and contrasted these areas to the boundaries of two other types, \"Alpine\" and \"Mediterranean\", thus reducing the 'caucasoid branch of humanity' to three distinct groups.\n\nBy the early 20th century, Ripley's tripartite Nordic/Alpine/Mediterranean model was well established. Most 19th century race-theorists like Arthur de Gobineau, Otto Ammon, Georges Vacher de Lapouge and Houston Stewart Chamberlain preferred to speak of \"Aryans,\" \"Teutons,\" and \"Indo-Europeans\" instead of \"Nordic Race\". The British German racialist Houston Stewart Chamberlain considered the Nordic race to be made up of Celtic and Germanic peoples, as well as some Slavs. Chamberlain called those people \"Celt-Germanic peoples\", and his ideas would influence Adolf Hitler's Nazi ideology.\n\nOnly in the 1920s did a strong partiality for \"Nordic\" begin to reveal itself, and for a while the term was used almost interchangeably with Aryan. Later, however, \"Nordic\" would not be co-terminous with Aryan, Indo-European or Germanic.\nFor example, the later Nazi minister for Food, Richard Walther Darré, who had developed a concept of the German peasantry as Nordic race, used the term 'Aryan' to refer to the tribes of the Iranian plains.\n\nThe notion of a distinct northern European race was also rejected by several anthropologists on craniometric grounds. Rudolf Virchow attacked the claim following a study of craniometry, which gave surprising results according to contemporary scientific racist theories on the \"Aryan race.\" During the 1885 Anthropology Congress in Karlsruhe, Virchow denounced the \"Nordic mysticism,\" while Josef Kollmann, a collaborator of Virchow, stated that the people of Europe, be they German, Italian, English or French, belonged to a \"mixture of various races,\" furthermore declaring that the \"results of craniology\" led to \"struggle against any theory concerning the superiority of this or that European race\".\n\nIn \"Rassenkunde des deutschen Volkes\" (Racial Science of the German People), published 1922, Hans F. K. Günther identified five principal European races instead of three, adding the East Baltic race (related to the Alpine race) and Dinaric race (related to the Nordic race) to Ripley's categories. This work was influential in Ewald Banse's publication of \"Die Rassenkarte von Europa\" in 1925 which combined research by Joseph Deniker, William Z. Ripley, Madison Grant, Otto Hauser, Hans F. K. Günther, Eugen Fischer and Gustav Kraitschek.\n\nIn The Racial Elements of European History Gunther further identified a race he named \"Hither Asiatic\" in Southern Spain and Morocco which he believed was carried into Europe through the Moorish invasions. He identified an \"Inner Asiatic\" race residing in Northern Scandinavia and Northern Russia. He also identified the \"Oriental\" race residing and originating from Arabia, as well as the \"Near Asiatic\" race originating from Persia.\n\nGunther concluded that Germany was one of the most racially diverse nations of Europe and that all racial groups, in varying distributions, could be found in any European nation. Gunther argued Jews are a nationality and not a race, comprising several racial groups including Nordics, but predominantly Hither Asiatic and Oriental.\n\nCarleton Coon in his book of 1939 \"The Races of Europe\" subdivided the Nordic race into three main types, \"Corded\", \"Danubian\" and \"Keltic\", besides\na \"Neo-Danubian\" type and a variety of\nNordic types altered by Upper Palaeolithic or Alpine admixture.\n\"Exotic Nordics\" are morphologically Nordic types that occur in places distant from the northwestern European center of Nordic concentration.\n\nCoon takes the Nordics to be a partially depigmented branch of the greater Mediterranean racial stock. He suggests that the Nordic type emerged as a result of a mixture of \"the Danubian Mediterranean strain with the later Corded element\". Hence his two main Nordic types show Corded and Danubian predominance, respectively .\nThe third \"Keltic\" or \"Hallstatt\" type Coon takes to have emerged in the European Iron Age, in Central Europe, where it was subsequently mostly replaced, but \"found a refuge in Sweden and in the eastern valleys of southern Norway.\"\n\nCoon further recognizes the following terminology of earlier authors:\n\nCoon's (1939) theory that the Nordic race was a depigmentated variation of the greater Mediterranean racial stock was also supported by his mentor Earnest Albert Hooton who in the same year published \"Twilight of Man\", which notes: \"The Nordic race is certainly a depigmented offshoot from the basic long-headed Mediterranean stock. It deserves separate racial classification only because its blond hair (ash or golden), its pure blue or grey eyes\". A 1990s study by Ulrich Mueller found that depigmentation of Nordic peoples around the Baltic Sea likely occurred due to vitamin D deficiency amongst peoples living there 10,000-30,000 years ago who had a lack of access to vitamin D foods such as dairy products at the time. Depigmentation allowed greater amount of ultraviolet B light to be absorbed through the skin to synthesize to produce vitamin D.\n\nBy the early twentieth century the concept of a \"masterly\" Nordic race had become familiar enough that the British psychologist William McDougall, writing in 1920, stated:\n\nAmong all the disputes and uncertainties of the ethnographers about the races of Europe, one fact stands out clearly—namely, that we can distinguish a race of northerly distribution and origin, characterised physically by fair colour of hair and skin and eyes, by tall stature and dolichocephaly (i.e. long shape of head), and mentally by great independence of character, individual initiative and tenacity of will. Many names have been used to denote this type, ... . It is also called the Nordic type.\n\nNordicists claimed that Nordics had formed upper tiers of ancient civilisations, even in the Mediterranean civilisations of antiquity, which had declined once this dominant race had been assimilated. Thus they argued that ancient evidence suggested that leading Romans like Nero, Sulla and Cato were blond or red-haired.\n\nSome Nordicists admitted the Mediterranean race was superior to the Nordic in terms of artistic ability. However, the Nordic race was regarded as superior on the basis that, although Mediterranean peoples were culturally sophisticated, it was the Nordics who were alleged to be the innovators and conquerors, having an adventurous spirit that no other race could match.\n\nThe Alpine race was usually regarded as inferior to both the Nordic and Mediterranean races, making up the traditional peasant class of Europe while Nordics occupied the aristocracy and led the world in technology, and Mediterraneans were regarded as more imaginative.\n\nOpponents of Nordicism rejected these arguments. The anti-Nordicist writer Giuseppe Sergi argued in his influential book \"The Mediterranean Race\" (1901) that there was no evidence that the upper tiers of ancient societies were Nordic, insisting that historical and anthropological evidence contradicted such claims. Sergi argued that Mediterraneans constituted \"the greatest race in the world\", with a creative edge absent in the Nordic race. According to him, they were the creators of all the major ancient civilisations, from Mesopotamia to Rome.\n\nThis argument was later repeated by C. G. Seligman, who wrote that \"it must, I think, be recognised that the Mediterranean race has actually more achievement to its credit than any other\". Even Carleton Coon insisted that among Greeks \"the Nordic element is weak, as it probably has been since the days of Homer ... It is my personal reaction to the living Greeks that their continuity with their ancestors of the ancient world is remarkable, rather than the opposite.\"\n\nIn the United States, the primary spokesman for Nordicism was the eugenicist Madison Grant. His 1916 book, \"The Passing of the Great Race, or the Racial Basis of European History\" about Nordicism was highly influential among racial thinking and government policy making.\n\nGrant used the theory as justification for immigration policies of the 1920s, arguing that the immigrants from certain areas of Europe, such as Italians and other Southern Europeans and Eastern Europeans, represented a lesser type of European and their numbers in the United States should not be increased. Grant and others urged this as well as the complete restriction of non-Europeans, such as the Chinese and Japanese.\n\nGrant argued the Nordic race had been responsible for most of humanity's great achievements, and admixture was \"race suicide\" and unless eugenic policies were enacted, the Nordic race would be supplanted by inferior races. Future president Calvin Coolidge agreed, stating \"Biological laws tell us that certain divergent people will not mix or blend. The Nordics propagate themselves successfully. With other races, the outcome shows deterioration on both sides.\"\n\nThe Immigration Act of 1924 was signed into law by President Coolidge. This was designed to reduce the number of immigrants from Southern Europe, Southeast Europe, Eastern Europe and Russia, exclude Asian immigrants altogether, and favor immigration from the British Isles, Germany and Scandinavia, while also permitting immigration from Latin America.\n\nThe spread of these ideas also affected popular culture. F. Scott Fitzgerald invokes Grant's ideas through a character in part of \"The Great Gatsby\", and Hilaire Belloc jokingly rhapsodied the \"Nordic man\" in a poem and essay in which he satirised the stereotypes of Nordics, Alpines and Mediterraneans.\n\nIn Germany the influence of Nordicism remained powerful. There it was known under the term \"Nordischer Gedanke\" (\"Nordic thought\").\n\nThis phrase was coined by the German eugenicists Erwin Baur, Eugen Fischer and Fritz Lenz. It appeared in their 1921 work \"Human Heredity\", which insisted on the innate superiority of the Nordic race.\n\nAdapting the arguments of Arthur Schopenhauer and others to Darwinian theory, they argued that the qualities of initiative and will-power identified by earlier writers had arisen from natural selection, because of the tough landscape in which Nordic peoples evolved. This had ensured that weaker individuals had not survived.\n\nThis argument was derived from earlier eugenicist and Social Darwinist ideas. According to the authors, the Nordic race arose in the ice age, from:\nThey went on to argue that \"the original Indo-Germanic civilisation\" was carried by Nordic migrants down to India, and that the physiognomy of upper caste Indians \"disclose a Nordic origin\".\n\nBy this time, Germany was well-accustomed to theories of race and racial superiority due to the long presence of the Völkisch movement, the philosophy that Germans constituted a unique people, or volk, linked by common blood. While Volkism was popular mainly among Germany's lower classes and was more a romanticised version of ethnic nationalism, Nordicism attracted German anthropologists and eugenicists.\n\nHans F. K. Günther, one of Fischer's students, first defined \"Nordic thought\" in his programmatic book \"Der Nordische Gedanke unter den Deutschen\". He became the most influential German in this field. His \"Short Ethnology of the German People\" (1929) was very widely circulated.\n\nIn his \"Rassenkunde des deutschen Volkes\" (\"Race-Lore of the German Volk\"), published 1922, Günther identified five principal European races instead of three, adding the East Baltic race and Dinaric race to Ripley's categories. He used the term Ostic instead of Alpine. He focused on their supposedly distinct mental attributes.\n\nGünther criticised the Völkish idea, stating that the Germans were not racially unified, but were actually one of the most racially diverse peoples in Europe. Despite this, many Völkists who merged Völkism and Nordicism embraced Günther's ideas, most notably the Nazis.\n\nAdolf Hitler read \"Human Heredity\" shortly before he wrote \"Mein Kampf\", and called it scientific proof of the racial basis of civilisation. Its arguments were also repeated by the Nazi ideologist Alfred Rosenberg, in his book \"The Myth of the Twentieth Century\" (1930).\n\nNazi racial theories held the Atlanteans to be a race of Nordic supermen, and Alfred Rosenberg wrote of a \"Nordic-Atlantean\" master race whose civilisation was lost through inward corruption and betrayal. According to Rosenberg, the Nordic race had evolved in a now-lost landmass off the coast of Europe, perhaps mythical Atlantis, migrated through northern Europe and expanded further south to Iran and India where it founded the Aryan cultures of Zoroastrianism and Hinduism. Like Grant and others, he argued that the entrepreneurial energy of the Nordics had \"degenerated\" when they mixed with \"inferior\" peoples.\n\nWith the rise of Hitler, Nordic theory became the norm within German culture. In some cases the \"Nordic\" concept became an almost abstract ideal rather than a mere racial category. For example, Hermann Gauch wrote in 1933 (in a book which was banned in the Third Reich) that the fact that \"birds can be taught to talk better than other animals is explained by the fact that their mouths are Nordic in structure.\" He further claimed that in humans, \"the shape of the Nordic gum allows a superior movement of the tongue, which is the reason why Nordic talking and singing are richer.\"\n\nSuch views were extreme, but more mainstream Nordic theory was institutionalised. Hans F. K. Günther, who joined the Nazi Party in 1932, was praised as a pioneer in racial thinking, a shining light of Nordic theory. Most official Nazi comments on the Nordic Race were based on Günther's works, and Alfred Rosenberg presented Günther with a medal for his work in anthropology.\n\nEugen Fischer and Fritz Lenz were also appointed to senior positions overseeing the policy of Racial Hygiene. Madison Grant's book was the first non-German book to be translated and published by the Nazi Reich press, and Grant proudly displayed to his friends a letter from Hitler claiming that the book was \"his Bible.\"\n\nThe Nazi state used such ideas about the differences between European races as part of their various discriminatory and coercive policies which culminated in the Holocaust. Ironically, in Grant's first edition of his popular book, he classified the Germans as being primarily Nordic, but in his second edition, published after the USA had entered World War I, he had re-classified the now enemy power as being dominated by \"inferior\" Alpines.\n\nGünther's work agreed with Grant's, and the German anthropologist frequently stated that the Germans are not a fully Nordic people.. Hitler himself was later to downplay the importance of Nordicism in public for this very reason.. The standard tripartite model placed most of the population of Hitler's Germany in the Alpine category, especially after the Anschluss.\n\nJ. Kaup led a movement opposed to Günther. Kaup took the view that a German nation, all of whose citizens belonged to a \"German race\" in a populationist sense, offered a more convenient sociotechnical tool than Günther's concept of an ideal Nordic type to which only a very few Germans could belong.\n\nNazi legislation identifying the ethnic and \"racial\" affinities of the Jews reflects the populationist concept of race. Discrimination was not restricted to Jews who belonged to the \"Oriental-Armenoid\" race, but was directed against all members of the Jewish ethnic population.\n\nThe German Jewish journalist Kurt Caro (1905–1979) who emigrated to Paris in 1933 and served in the British Army from 1943, published a book under the pseudonym Manuel Humbert claiming to unmask Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\" in which he stated the following racial composition of the Jewish population of Central Europe: 23,8% Lapponid race, 21,5% Nordic race,\n20,3% Armenoid race, 18,4% Mediterranean race, 16,0% Oriental race.\n\nBy 1939 Hitler had abandoned Nordicist rhetoric in favour of the idea that the German people as a whole were united by distinct \"spiritual\" qualities. Nevertheless, Nazi eugenics policies continued to favour Nordics over Alpines and other racial groups, particularly during the war when decisions were being made about the incorporation of conquered peoples into the Reich.\n\nIn 1942 Hitler stated in private, I shall have no peace of mind until I have planted a seed of Nordic blood wherever the population stand in need of regeneration. If at the time of the migrations, while the great racial currents were exercising their influence, our people received so varied a share of attributes, these latter blossomed to their full value only because of the presence of the Nordic racial nucleus.\n\nIn his \"table talk\", Hitler described how the presence of German and English soldiers in the combat areas he served in during World War I had, in his view, improved the quality of the young people he saw there in 1940, in a \"Nordicizing process, the results of which are today [according to Hitler] incontestable.\" He also said he observed the same process at work in the area of his mountain home near Berchtesgaden, which he described as having, when he first came there, a mongrel population, the quality of which was much improved by the presence of his SS Bodyguard Regiment, which was responsible for \"the numbers of strong and healthy children running around the area.\" Hitler went on to say that \"[This] shows that elite troops should really be sent wherever the composition of the people is poor, in order to improve it.\" Indeed, Hitler and Himmler planned to use the SS – a racial elite chosen on the basis of \"pure\" Nordic qualities – as the basis for the racial \"regeneration\" of Europe following the final victory of Nazism. . \n\nAddressing officers of the SS-Leibstandarte \"Adolf Hitler\" Himmler stated:\n\nThe ultimate aim for those 11 years during which I have been the Reichsfuehrer SS has been invariably the same: to create an order of good blood which is able to serve Germany; which unfailingly and without sparing itself can be made use of because the greatest losses can do no harm to the vitality of this order, the vitality of these men, because they will always be replaced; to create an order which will spread the idea of Nordic blood so far that we will attract all Nordic blood in the world, take away the blood from our adversaries, absorb it so that never again, looking at it from the viewpoint of grand policy, Nordic blood, in great quantities and to an extent worth mentioning, will fight against us.\n\nIn Italy, the influence of Nordicism had a divisive effect in which the influence resulted in Northern Italians who regarded themselves to have Nordic racial heritage considered themselves a civilised people while negatively regarding Southern Italians as non-Nordic and therefore biologically inferior. Nordicism was controversial in Italy because of common Nordicist perceptions of Mediterranean people, and especially southern Italians, being racially degenerate. The distinction between a superior northern Italy and a degenerate and an inferior southern Italy was promoted by the Neapolitan Carlo Formichi, the Vice-President of the Italian Academy, who in 1921 said that Italy needed \"a great revolution ..., a return to the genius of the noble Aryan race, which is after all our race, but that has been overcome by the Semitic civilisation and mentality\". At least some of the stereotypes about Southern Italians were created by Cesare Lombroso, an Italian Jewish criminologist and anthropologist of Sephardic descent. For his controversial theories, Lombroso was expelled from the Italian Society of Anthropology and Ethnology in 1882. The Lombrosian doctrine is currently considered pseudoscientific.\n\nItalian Fascism's stance towards Nordicism changed from being initially hostile to being favourable.\n\nItalian Fascism strongly rejected the common Nordicist conception of the Aryan race that idealised \"pure\" Aryans as having certain physical traits that were defined as Nordic such as fair skin, blond hair and light eyes. The antipathy by Mussolini and other Italian Fascists to Nordicism was over the existence of what they viewed as the Mediterranean inferiority complex that they claimed had been instilled into Mediterraneans by the propagation of such theories by German and British Nordicists who viewed Mediterranean peoples as racially degenerate and thus in their view inferior. However traditional Nordicist claims of Mediterraneans being degenerate due to having a darker colour of skin than Nordics had long been rebuked in anthropology through the depigmentation theory that claimed that lighter skinned peoples had been dipigmented from a darker skin. This theory has since become a widely accepted view in anthropology. Anthropologist Carleton S. Coon in his work \"The races of Europe\" (1939) subscribed to depigmentation theory that claimed that Nordic race's light-coloured skin was the result of depigmentation from their ancestors of the Mediterranean race. Mussolini refused to allow Italy to return again to this inferiority complex, initially rejecting Nordicism.\n\nIn the early 1930s, with the rise to power of the Nazi Party in Germany with Hitler's emphasis on a Nordicist conception of the Aryan race, strong tensions arose between the Fascists and the Nazis over racial issues. In 1934, in the aftermath of Austrian Nazis killing Austrian Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss, an ally of Italy, Mussolini became enraged and responded by angrily denouncing Nazism. Mussolini rebuked Nazism's Nordicism, claiming that the Nazis' emphasizing of a common Nordic \"Germanic race\" was absurd, saying \"a Germanic race does not exist. ... We repeat. Does not exist. Scientists say so. Hitler says so.\" That Germans were not purely Nordic was indeed acknowledged by Nazi racial theorist Hans F. K. Günther in his book \"Rassenkunde des deutschen Volkes\" (1922) (\"Racial Science of the German People\"), where Günther recognized Germans as being composed of five Aryan subtype races: Nordic, Mediterranean, Dinaric, Alpine and East Baltic while asserting that the Nordics were the highest in a racial hierarchy of the five subtypes.\n\nBy 1936, the tensions between Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany reduced and relations became more amicable. In 1936, Mussolini decided to launch a racial programme in Italy, and was interested in the racial studies being conducted by Giulio Cogni. Cogni was a Nordicist but did not equate Nordic identity with Germanic identity as was commonly done by German Nordicists. Cogni had travelled to Germany where he had become impressed by Nazi racial theory and sought to create his own version of racial theory. On 11 September 1936, Cogni sent Mussolini a copy of his newly published book \"Il Razzismo\" (1936). Cogni declared the racial affinity of the Mediterranean and Nordic racial subtypes of the Aryan race and claimed that the intermixing of Nordic Aryans and Mediterranean Aryans in Italy produced a superior synthesis of Aryan Italians. Cogni addressed the issue of racial differences between northern and southern Italians, declaring southern Italians were mixed between Aryan and non-Aryan races, that he claimed was most likely due to infiltration by Asiatic peoples in Roman times and later Arab invasions. As such, Cogni viewed Southern Italian Mediterraneans as being polluted with orientalizing tendencies. He would later change his idea and claim that Nordics and Southern Italians were closely related groups both racially and spiritually. His opinion was that they were generally responsible for what is the best in European civilization. Initially Mussolini was not impressed with Cogni's work, however Cogni's ideas entered into the official Fascist racial policy several years later.\n\nIn 1938 Mussolini was concerned that if Italian Fascism did not recognise Nordic heritage within Italians, that the Mediterranean inferiority complex would return to Italian society. Therefore, in summer 1938, the Fascist government officially recognised Italians as having Nordic heritage and being of Nordic-Mediterranean descent and in a meeting with PNF members, and in June 1938 in a meeting with PNF members, Mussolini identified himself as Nordic and declared that previous policy of focus on Mediterraneanism was to be replaced by a focus on Aryanism. Mussolini in July 1938 declared that Italians had strong Nordic heritage particularly through the heritage of the Germanic tribe of the Lombards who conquered Italy after the collapse of the Roman Empire and claimed that the intermixing of Mediterranean Romans with the Nordic Lombards was the last significant racial mixing that occurred in Italy and that none had occurred since.\n\nEven before the rise of Nazism, Grant's concept of \"race\" lost favour in the USA in the polarising political climate after World War I, including the Great Migration and the Great Depression. By the 1930s, criticism of the Nordicist model was growing in Britain and America. The British historian Arnold J. Toynbee in \"A Study of History\" (1934) argued that the most dynamic civilisations have arisen from racially mixed cultures. In southern Europe the theory understandably had less influence.\n\nThis required the abandonment of Grant's gradations of \"white\" in favour of the \"One-drop theory\"—which was embraced by white supremacists and black leaders alike. Among the latter were Marcus Garvey, and, in part, W. E. B. Du Bois, at least in his later thought.\n\nWith the rise of Nazism many critics pointed to the flaws in the theory, repeating the arguments made by Sergi and others that the evidence of ancient Nordic achievement is thin when set against the civilizations of the Mediterranean and elsewhere. The equation of Nordic and Aryan identity was also widely criticized.\n\nIn 1936 M. W. Fodor, writing in \"The Nation\", claimed that racialized Germanic nationalism arose from an inferiority complex:\n\nNo race has suffered so much from an inferiority complex as has the German. National Socialism was a kind of Coué method of converting the inferiority complex, at least temporarily, into a feeling of superiority.\n\nSome Lombard nationalists took it up in Italy, but even after the establishment of Benito Mussolini's fascist government racial theories were not prominent. Mussolini stated, \"Nothing will ever make me believe that biologically pure races can be shown to exist.\"\n\nAfter World War II, the categorisation of peoples into \"superior\" and \"inferior\" groups fell even further out of political and scientific favour, eventually leading to the characterisation of such theories as scientific racism. The tripartite subdivision of \"Caucasians\" into Nordic, Alpine and Mediterranean groups persisted among some scientists into the 1960s, notably in Carleton Coon's book \"The Origin of Races\" (1962).\n\nAlready race academics such as A. James Gregor were heavily criticising Nordicism. In 1961 Gregor called it a \"philosophy of despair\", on the grounds that its obsession with purity doomed it to ultimate pessimism and isolationism.\n\nAs late as 1977 the Swedish author Bertil Lundman wrote a book \"The Races and Peoples of Europe\" mentioning a \"Nordid Race\". The development of the Kurgan theory of Indo-European origins challenged the Nordicist equation of Aryan and Nordic identity, since it placed the earliest Indo-European speakers around central Asia and/or far-eastern Europe (although according to the Kurgan hypothesis some Proto-Indo-Europeans \"did\" eventually migrate into Central and Northern Europe and become the ancestors of the Nordic peoples.)\n\nThe original German term used by Ripley, \"\"Theodiscus\", which is translated into English as \"Teutonic\", has fallen out of favour amongst German-speaking scholars, and is restricted to a somewhat ironical usage similar to the archaic \"teutsch\", if used at all. While the term is still present in English, which has retained it in some contexts as a translation of the traditional Latin \"Teutonicus\" (most notably the aforementioned Teutonic Order), it should not be translated into German as \"Teutonisch\"\" except when referring to the historical Teutones.\n\nNordicism was subject to substantial criticism. Carleton Steven Coon in his work \"The Races of Europe\" (1939) subscribed to depigmentation theory that claimed that Nordic race's light-coloured skin was the result of depigmentation from their ancestors of the Mediterranean race.\nThe depigmentation theory received notable support from later anthropologists, thus in 1947 Melville Jacobs noted: \"To many physical anthropologists Nordic means a group with an especially high percentage of blondness, which represent a depigmentated Mediterranean\". In her work \"Races of Man\" (1963, 2nd Ed. 1965) Sonia Mary Cole went further to argue that the Nordic race belongs to the \"brunette Mediterranean\" Caucasoid division but that it differs only in its higher percentage of blonde hair and light eyes. The Harvard anthropologist Claude Alvin Villee, Jr. also was a notable proponent of this theory, writing: \"The Nordic division, a partially depigmised branch of the Mediterranean group.\" \"Collier's Encyclopedia\" as late as 1984 contains an entry for this theory, citing anthropological support. Early 21st century genetic studies have provided new insights into the origins of Irish people as well as their neighbours from other parts of the British Isles. Correspondingly, researchers in the field have suggested that migrations from prehistoric Iberia can be viewed as the primary source for their genetic material, having demonstrated marked similarities with modern representatives of the aforementioned time period in that of the Basque people. However, the majority of Irish males fall under the R1b sub-clade L-21, which is quite rare for Basques.\n\nIn his work \"The Races and Peoples of Europe\" (1977) the Swedish anthropologist Bertil Lundman introduced the term \"Nordid\" to describe the Nordic race, described as follows:\n\nSome forensic scientists, pathologists and anthropologists up to the 1990s continued to use the tripartite division of Caucasoids: Nordic, Alpine and Mediterranean, based on their cranial anthropometry. The anthropologist Wilton M. Krogman for example identified Nordic racial crania in his work \"The Human Skeleton in Forensic Medicine\" (1986) as being \"dolichochranic\". In his work \"Forensic Pathology\", published in 1991, Bernard Knight, a Professor of Forensic Pathology, also uses the tripartite model and identifies the Nordic race based on its dolichocephalic skull shape. Forensic anthropologists of the 21st century however no longer continue to use the tripartite division of Caucasoids, but instead only recognise Caucasoid, Negroid and Mongoloid through analysis of skeletal remains and not subraces of these racial groups.\n\nIn the 21st century there is a prevailing view amongst many anthropologists and biologists that completely \"pure\" races do not and have not existed.\n\nThe 2014 edition of \"The World Factbook\", produced by the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States, describes Spain's population as a \"composite of Mediterranean and Nordic types\".\n\nThe emergence of population genetics further undermined the categorisation of Europeans into clearly defined origin groups. A 2007 study on the genetic history of Europe found that the most important genetic differentiation in Europe occurs on a line from the north to the south-east (northern Europe to the Balkans), with another east-west axis of differentiation across Europe. However, Finns seem to mark an exception in European genetic groups, as they seem not to share strong genetic relationship ties with other European countries, but instead appear to be genetically a rather isolated group.\n\nWhen looking at the Y-chromosome there are three large haplogroups which account for most of Europe's patrilineal descent.\n\n\nRace and political movements:\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "6076115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6076115", "title": "Old media", "text": "Old media\n\nOld media (also legacy media) are the mass media institutions that predominated prior to the Information Age; particularly print media, film studios, music studios, advertising agencies, radio broadcasting, and television.\n\nOld media institutions are centralized and communicate with one-way technologies to a (generally anonymous) mass audience. New media computer technologies are interactive and comparatively decentralized; they enable people to telecommunicate with one another. The defining telecommunications network of the Information Age is the Internet.\n\nThe advent of New Communication Technology (NCT) has brought forth a set of opportunities and challenges for conventional media. The presence of new media and the Internet in particular, has posed a challenge to conventional media,especially the printed newspaper. Analysts in industrial organizations and businesses are of the view that the U.S. newspaper industry is suffering through what could be its worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Advertising revenues are tumbling due to the severe economic downturn, while readership habits are changing as consumers turn to the Internet for free news and information. Some major newspaper chains are burdened by heavy debts. As in the past, major newspapers have declared bankruptcy as several big city papers shut down,lay off reporters and editors, impose pay reductions, cut the size of the physical newspaper, or turn to Web-only publication (Kirchhoff, 2009). The new media have also affected the way newspapers get and circulate their news. Since 1999, almost 90% of daily newspapers in the United States have been actively using online technologies to search for articles and most of them also create their own news websites to reach new markets.\n\nSome observers believe that the challenges faced by conventional media, especially newspapers, has to do with the perfect storm of the global economic crisis, dwindling readership and advertising dollars, and the inability of newspapers to monetize their online efforts. Newspapers, especially in the West and the US in particular, have lost the lion's share of classified advertisement to the Internet. The situation worsened when a depressed economy forced more readers to cancel their newspaper subscriptions, and business firms to cut their advertising budget as part of the overall cost-cutting measurements. As a result, closures of newspapers, bankruptcy, job cuts and salary cuts are widespread. This has made some representatives of the US newspaper industry seek some sort of bailout from the government by allowing U.S. newspapers to recoup taxes they paid on profits earlier this decade to help offset some of their current losses. This is what they put forward to the Joint Committee of Congress (The Star Online, September 2009). Accusations are being hurled at search engines giants by publishers such as Sir David Bell, who categorically accused Google and Yahoo of “stealing” the contents of newspapers. A similar allegation came from media mogul Rupert Murdoch in early April 2009. \"Should we be allowing Google to steal all our copyrights?\" asked the News Corp.Chief. Likewise, Sam Zell, owner of the Tribune Company that publishes the Chicago Tribune, the Los Angeles Times and the Baltimore Sun claimed it was the newspapers in America who allowed Google to steal their contents for nothing, but asked without the contents what would Google do, and how profitable would Google be?\n\n"}
{"id": "28473853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28473853", "title": "Patrol 36", "text": "Patrol 36\n\nPatrol 36 (, , , ) was an Israeli neo-Nazi organization, consisting of 8 teenagers, led by Eli Bonite (born Erik Bunyatov in 1988), alias \"Ely the Nazi\" ( \"Eli ha-Natsi\", \"Natsist Eli\"). The group's members were Russian immigrants aged 16 to 21. According to \"The Daily Telegraph\", the men's families were allowed to settle in Israel under the Law of Return, meaning that they all had at least one grandparent with a Jewish mother, although none of them were Jewish according to the Jewish law.\n\nThe group desecrated buildings, especially synagogues, with swastikas and graffiti, and carried out attacks on migrant workers from Africa and Asia, drug addicts, gays, Ultra-Orthodox Jews, and elderly people. Patrol 36's members reportedly had tattoos with the number 88 (a reference to the phrase \"Heil Hitler\") and were stockpiling guns, TNT, knives and portraits of Adolf Hitler. The group produced videos of their own attacks, which were found on computers seized by police.\n\nBonite was once recorded telling a gang member \"my grandfather was a half-Jewboy. I will not have children so that this trash will not be born with even a tiny per cent of Jewboy blood.\" The cell was based in Petah Tikva, near Tel Aviv, where they all lived.\n\nIsraeli Police began investigating the group in 2006, after two incidents of Neo-Nazi graffiti in Petah Tikva. On September 9, 2007, seven of the group's members were arrested, while the leader, Erik Bonite, fled the country. Police also seized computers depicting videos of their attacks that they had filmed, Neo-Nazi related materials, such as swastika posters and Neo-Nazi films, along with explosives and an improvised pistol. They were charged with conspiracy to commit a crime, assault, racial incitement, and distribution of racist materials, and tried in the Tel Aviv District Court. All eight were found guilty, and received sentences ranging between one and seven years in prison. While reading the verdict, Judge Tsvi Gurfinkel said that he was imposing severe penalties to deter anyone else from following their example. Erik Bonite received a seven-year prison term \"in absentia\". In January 2011, he returned to Israel, and was arrested at the airport.\n\nTheir discovery led to renewed calls amongst politicians to amend the Law of Return. Effi Eitam of the National Religious Party and the National Union, which represent the religious Zionist movement and have previously attempted to advance bills to amend the Law of Return, stated that Israel has become \"a haven for people who hate Israel, hate Jews, and exploit the Law of Return to act on this hatred.\"\n\nJudge Tsvi Gurfinkel, who issued the guilty verdict , said that \"the fact that they are Jews from the ex-Soviet Union and that they had sympathised with individuals who believed in racist theories is terrible.\" BBC reported that the news of the attacks and of the men's arrests in 2007 \"shocked the nation\" because Israel was founded in the wake of the Holocaust. One of the members who was arrested and sentenced was the grandson of a Holocaust survivor.\n"}
{"id": "3130540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3130540", "title": "Planned unit development", "text": "Planned unit development\n\nA planned unit development (PUD) is a type of building development and also a regulatory process. As a building development, it is a designed grouping of both varied and compatible land uses, such as housing, recreation, commercial centers, and industrial parks, all within one contained development or subdivision.\n\nThe origins of PUDs in the new American communities can be traced to British movements during the 1950s. The developments in Britain's new communities dealt with the locations of industrial elements and how they were publicly dictated before building ever began in order to uphold an economic base. However, in America, privately controlled communities often had to attract industry after the residential sectors had been built and occupied.\n\nThe oldest forms of the planned unit development in America appeared shortly after World War II in the Levittowns and Park Forest developments, as whole communities within the limits and orbits of large metropolitan centers. The first zoning evidence of PUD was created by Prince George's County, Maryland in 1949. It \"permit[ed] the development of a large tract of land as a complete neighborhood unit, having a range of dwelling types, the necessary local shopping facilities and off-street parking areas, parks, playgrounds, school sites, and other community facilities\" (Burchell 43). Alexandria, Virginia, in 1952, as an amendment to its city code, provided for a \"Community Unit Plan\", with the intent to provide for planned community facilities and open space development with new residential building. One of the first modern uses of the term \"planned unit development\" appears in San Francisco's code of ordinances in 1962.\n\nPUD as a regulatory process is a means of land regulation which promotes large scale, unified land development by means of mid-range, realistic programs in chase of physically curable, social and economic deficiencies in land and cityscapes. Where appropriate, this development control promotes: \n\nFrequently, PUDs take on a variety of forms ranging from small clusters of houses combined with open spaces to new and developing towns with thousands of residents and various land uses. However, the definition of a PUD does not take into consideration these types of developments unless they fit into a category of size ranging from . In a PUD the property owner owns the land the dwelling sits on.\n\nIn PUDs, the zoning of districts becomes very different from what was standard under the Standard Zoning Enabling Act. Historically, the districts were very narrow in type and large in area. Within PUDs, zoning becomes much more integrated with multiple land uses and districts being placed on adjacent land parcels.\n\nResidential properties in PUDs are by far the most numerous and occupy the largest land areas. PUDs tend to incorporate single-family residential uses in proximity to two-family units and multiple-family dwellings to form a larger diversified neighborhood concept. Schools, churches, retirement homes, hospitals, and recreation facilities begin to find their way into residential districts. Residential districts also tend to use the best land in the community and the most favorable sites are protected from commercial and industrial uses.\n\nGrouping shopping districts by service area is a first step in returning to the neighborhood concept. Land is reserved for regional, community, and local shopping clusters with some specific restrictions based on market experience and on what types of business intend to locate at each development. Local shopping districts with sufficient provisions for off-street parking, height restrictions, and traffic control are not frequently found surrounded by residential areas.\n\nIndustrial standards now help to reduce the journey for employees to work. Nowadays, there tends to be environmental and performance regulations that cut back on the amount of nuisance to surrounding areas adjacent to industrial districts. With sufficient setbacks, off-street parking, and height regulations, industrial locations adjacent to residential zones are usually looked to as an overall community goal. PUDs do not normally have large numbers of industrial districts, but if so, they tend to be geared more towards light industry.\n\nA planned residential unit development (PRUD) (sometimes planned unit residential development (PURD)) is a variant form of PUD where common areas are owned by the individual homeowners and not a homeowners association or other entity. A PURD is considered the same as a PUD for planning commission purposes and allows for flexibility in zoning and civic planning.\n\nIn most PUDs, individual owners have full ownership of their homes and buildings, making them the responsible party for maintenance. Governing documents of homeowners associations within PUDs often delegate most of the maintenance responsibilities to the owners, assuming the least amount of responsibility possible.\n\nHouses in PUDs often include access to a large shared open space surrounding the house as well as a smaller private yard. These large protected open spaces are created by the layout of the buildings and are intended for use by all residents of the developments. Different housing types (single-family, two-family, multiple-family) are often mixed rather than separated as is done in conventional development\n\nStreet patterns are one of the most important elements in establishing the neighborhood character of a residential community. Most non-PUD development focuses on obtaining maximum frontage for lot sizes and maximum flow of traffic on all streets. However, in order to dispel the monotony of the typical grid plan street pattern, PUDs often employ a hierarchy of street types based on usage. Local streets serve only residences and have a low traffic volume, while collector streets connect local streets to arterials, which are the major routes of travel throughout a PUD.\n\nSidewalks and pedestrian ways of PUDs supplement and complement street systems in establishing the character of the neighborhood. Sidewalks are located on at least one side of every street to enable the walkability of the developments. Circulation systems are provided to link residential groupings, open space areas, schools, and local shopping areas.\n\nIt is in the ability to design each of these components simultaneously that makes PUDs unique and effective. Each of the elements work together to enhance the whole. This represents a major advantage over traditional zoning practices that force lots to be planned in accordance with broad rules that may allow for some incompatibility.\n\n"}
{"id": "40513338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40513338", "title": "Rape in Egypt", "text": "Rape in Egypt\n\nRape is one of the most common crimes in Egypt. Marital rape is not illegal in the country. By 2008, the U.N. quoted Egypt's Interior Ministry's figure that 20,000 rapes take place every year, although according to the activist Engy Ghozlan (ECWR), rapes are 10 times higher than the stats given by Interior Ministry, making it 200,000 per year. Mona Eltahawy has also noted the same figure (200,000), and added that this was before the revolution, and that today the number is actually higher.\n\nRapes have been carried out during festivals and the Egyptian protests, and include the public rapes of women, and female journalists.\n\nRapes are usually not reported in Egypt, due to the fear of social rejection, and culturally it is not accepted.\n\nRania Hamid from Centre for Egyptian Women’s Legal Assistance (CEWLA) says that no one tells that they have been raped, saying \"Girls consider it to be quite enough that a few people know about the rape.\" Rania Hamid further describes the problem, that even if a girl would reveal that she has been raped, the whole issue would take form of honour, she said that \"There are problems of honour. Sometimes a brother or cousin may kill her, saying 'you wanted this, you encouraged this, you’re not honourable, and what is that you are wearing?...' Of course it’s not her fault, but who are you going to tell that to? The girl or society?\"\n\nAccording to the US State Department country report, \"honour crimes\" are not actually illegal in Egypt.\n\nFarah Shash, a psychologist explains that young boys are rarely stopped or opposed by their parents for molesting girls publicly, it's because the children always saw the same behavior around them. Shash further adds that \"Often, families will just laugh\". According Seif el-Dawla who runs a center in the country told that \"Sexual molestation and harassment ... is routine for women who come across police\".\n\nEgyptian Centre for Women's Rights (ECWR) has called the problem \"social cancer\" and suggested that dress code is not deterrent at all. ECWR carried out a survey in 2008 which found that 83 percent of Egyptian women and 98 percent of foreign women within Egypt had experienced sexual harassment at some time, and only 12% had gone to police for complaining such issue. Over 62% of Egyptian men admitted harassing women, and 53% of Egyptian men have blamed women for 'bringing it on.'\n\nUnited Nations Entity for Gender Equality on May 23, 2013, reported that estimated of 99.3% of Egyptian women said they faced some form of sexual violence.\n\nIn some cases, rape has been connected to religious issues. Activists reported that the Muslim Brotherhood pays for raping women and beating men.\n\nThere are incidents in which military men had raped a civilian. In April 2014, it was reported that the Egyptian police was using rape as a weapon against the political dissidents, in relation to this report, one of the victim had raised the issue during the first judicial hearing, although the victim's complaint was ignored.\n\nA survey of male and female students at Sohag University found an overall child sexual abuse prevalence of 29.8%, with the rate for females (37.8%) being higher than that for males (21.2%). Hugging and kissing in a way that disturbed the victim were the most reported type of child sexual abuse. 76.1% of the abuse was not disclosed to another party.\n\nChild rape as a form of punishment has been reported.\n\nEgypt remains one of the most common countries for forced marriage as well as child marriage, along with Saudi Arabia and Yemen. An Egyptian TV series named \"Burying Girls Alive\", shown on one of the satellite channels during Ramadan, shows an old man simply buying a teenage girl by taking advantage of poverty.\n\nThe high rate of rape and abduction of Coptic children by Islamists has also been documented both during President Morsi's rule and subsequently, so has abduction of Coptic minors for the purpose of forced marriage to Muslim men.\n\nOrganised abduction rings, police collusion and payments for each abductee are also alleged.\n\nDuring the 2011 - 2014 Egyptian protests, rape had been carried out publicly.\n\nCBS correspondent Lara Logan revealed in her 60 Minutes program that she and her CBS crew were arrested and detained for one night by the Egyptian Army on 3 February 2011, while covering the Egyptian Revolution. She said the crew was blindfolded and handcuffed at gunpoint, and their driver beaten. They were advised to leave the country, but were later released. On 15 February 2011, CBS News released a statement that Logan had been beaten and sexually assaulted on 11 February, while covering the celebrations in Tahrir Square following Hosni Mubarak's resignation. In Logan's own words, they raped her with their hands, while taking photographs with their cellphones. They began pulling her body in different directions, pulling her hair so hard she said it seemed they were trying to tear off chunks of her scalp.\nBelieving she was dying, she was dragged along the square to where the crowd was stopped by a fence, alongside which a group of women were camping. One woman wearing a chador put her arms around Logan, and the others closed ranks around her, while some men who were with the women threw water at the crowd. A group of soldiers appeared, beat back the crowd with batons, and one of them threw Logan over his shoulder. She was flown back to the U.S. the next day, where she spent four days in the hospital. She was contacted by US president Barack Obama when she arrived home. CBS said it remained unclear who the attackers were, and unlikely that any will be prosecuted.\n\nA female 22-year-old Dutch journalist was gang raped by 5 men in the protest.\n\nOn 3 July 2013, it was reported that about 91 women were raped and sexually abused in Tahrir Square in 4 days.\n\nSuch incidents don't seem to be opposed by the government or officials, but instead they seemed to have gathered support. Report by Nina Burleigh quotes Egyptian Salafi preacher Ahmad Mahmoud Abdullah, who said that \"women protesting in Tahrir Square have no shame and want to be raped\".\n\nAfter revolution, about 50% of women have reported more harassment. 44% said that harassment remained is same as it was before, while, over 58% of men surveyed have told that harassment has been increased after revolution.\n\nThere were several accounts of a heightened number of sexual assaults and rapes taking place during Eid al Fitr in 2006 in Egypt, some noting as well the precautions being taken to prevent a recurrence of such problems. Subsequent reports indicated that this phenomenon continued to cause concern, one journalist reporting from Egypt wrote in \"The Guardian\" in 2012, \"The Eid al-Fitr holiday following this year's Ramadan brought its usual share of sexual harassment\". An Egyptian group founded to protect against sexual assaults, 'described Eid al-Fitr as a \"season for harassment\"', and the prevalence of such attacks 'a trend that has become associated with Eid al-Fitr celebrations in recent years'. Again in 2013, the same allegations surfaced in Cairo and Tanta. Public discussion of the problem in Egypt has been reported to be difficult. 2014 saw lower rates of attempted harassment, and activists reported women and girls were more confident that assaults would be punished since amendment of the penal code earlier in the year. 6 arrests were reported in Eid. In 2015, 141 police reports for sexual harassment were filed during Eid in Cairo. It was claimed the lack of data security or of a support mechanism after reporting hindered confidence, leading to many reports being subsequently withdrawn. Female concern about assault was still strong in 2016, but reported arrests and complaints were down.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2826368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2826368", "title": "Red flag (idiom)", "text": "Red flag (idiom)\n\nThe term red flag could mean either a literal flag used for signaling or, as a metaphor, a sign of some particular problem requiring attention.\n\nThe earliest citation for \"red flag\" in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" is from 1602 and shows that at that time the flag was used by military forces to indicate that they were preparing for battle.\n\nThe earliest citation of \"red flag\" in the sense of a warning is dated 1777 and refers to a flag warning of flood.\n\nThe term and the expression \"to raise the red flag\" come from various usages of real flags throughout history. The semaphore red flag (or red light) on railways means an immediate stop, while a red flag is frequently flown by armed forces to warn the public of live fire exercises in progress, and is sometimes flown by ships carrying munitions (in this context it is actually the flag for the letter B in the International maritime signal flag alphabet, a red swallow-tailed flag). In many countries a red flag is flown to signify that an outdoor shooting range is in use. The United States Air Force refers to its largest annual exercise as red flag operation. Red flags are used for various signals in team sailing races (see Racing Rules of Sailing). A red flag warning is a signal of high wildfire danger and a red flag on the beach warns of dangerous water conditions (double red flags indicate beach closure). Red flags of various designs indicate dangerous wind and wave conditions for mariners. In auto racing, a red flag indicates a stop to the race due to dangerous conditions.\n\nA signal of danger or a problem can be referred to as a red flag, a usage that originated in the 18th century. The term \"red flag\" is used, e.g., during screening of communications, and refers to specific words or phrases encountered that might indicate relevance to the case. For example, email spam filters make use of such \"red flags\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29095986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29095986", "title": "Refugees in Azerbaijan", "text": "Refugees in Azerbaijan\n\nAzerbaijani SSR was one of the first republic of Soviet Union that faced the problem of refugees and internally displaced persons. The refugees are ethnic Azerbaijanis from Armenia and the internally displaced persons are ethnic Azerbaijanis from Nagorno-Karabakh and the seven adjacent rayons which are controlled by the self-proclaimed Nagorno-Karabakh Republic.\n\nAccording to the 1979 census, Azeris numbered 160,841 and constituted 5.3% of Armenia's population. Civil unrest in Nagorno-Karabakh in 1987 led to Azeris' being often harassed and forced to leave Armenia. On 25 January 1988, the first wave of Azeri refugees from Armenia settled in the city of Sumgait. Another major wave occurred in November 1988 as Azeris were either expelled by the nationalists and local or state authorities or fled fearing for their lives. Violence took place as a result of ethnic conflicts; in November 1988, 25 Azeris were killed, according to Armenian sources (of those 20 in the town of Gugark); and 217, according to Azerbaijani sources.\n\nThus, in 1988–91 the remaining Azeris were forced to flee primarily to Azerbaijan. It is impossible to determine the exact population numbers for Azeris in Armenia at the time of the conflict's escalation, since during the 1989 census forced Azeri migration from Armenia was already in progress. UNHCR's estimate is 200,000 persons.\n\nAccording to Azerbaijani government at the time of the ceasefire in 1994 there were about 250,000 Azeri refugees from Armenia. According to the 1998 Citizenship Law they are all eligible for citizenship. By the end of 2001, UNHCR estimated that most of them were believed to have naturalized or be in the process of doing so.\n\nDuring the Nagorno-Karabakh War, territories constituting the former NKAO region of Azerbaijan and the seven adjacent rayons (some of them partly) were occupied by the Armenian forces. As a result, people had to leave their homes. Azerbaijan now has one of the highest numbers of internally displaced persons (IDPs) per capita in the world. The IDPs are presented in all of the 76 administrative districts in Azerbaijan. Initially, most of them lived in tent camps and public buildings such as schools, hostels, and dormitories. Since 2001, the Government increased its efforts to solve IDPs' problems. In 2002, the construction of new settlements started, and by the end of 2007, all tent camps were abolished.\n\nThe Government of Azerbaijan with the help of the international community has started drafting a Framework Plan for the Return of IDPs to the occupied regions after the settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh Conflict (The Great Return Programme).\n\nIn 1944, Meskhetian Turks were deported en masse from Georgia to Central Asia by Joseph Stalin. One of the regions they resettled in was Fergana Valley, Uzbekistan. In 1989, interethnic violence occurred there triggering an evacuation of Meskhetian Turks from Uzbekistan. This group of refugees in Azerbaijan numbered about 50,000 people. According to the 1998 Citizenship Law, they are all eligible for citizenship. By the end of 2001, UNHCR estimated that most of them were believed to have naturalized\n\nAccording to State Committee of Republic of Azerbaijan for Refugees and Internally Displaced Persons, there were 603,251 IDPs in Azerbaijan in March 2009. The majority live in and around Baku, as well as in Sumgayit. Significant numbers of\nIDPs also live along the central-southern route of Füzuli–Aghdam–Agjabedi–Barda–Mingechevir–Ganja, the northern route of Shamakhi–Ismailli–Gabala–Sheki and the southern route of Sabirabad–Saatli–Imishli–Beylagan.\n\nAlthough relations between IDPs and the local population are generally amicable and there is a high level of tolerance among the local population, there are instances of conflicts arising due to the special status of IDPs (such as privileged access to employment, government financial assistance, free health services and property ownership privileges).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27615814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27615814", "title": "Restored Hanthawaddy Kingdom", "text": "Restored Hanthawaddy Kingdom\n\nThe Restored Hanthawaddy Kingdom () was the kingdom that ruled Lower Burma and parts of Upper Burma from 1740 to 1757. The kingdom grew out of a rebellion by the Mon people, who then formed the majority in Lower Burma, against the Burman Toungoo Dynasty of Ava in Upper Burma. The rebellion succeeded in restoring the fallen Mon-speaking Kingdom of Hanthawaddy, which ruled Lower Burma from 1287 to 1539. Supported by the French, the upstart kingdom quickly carved out a space for itself in Lower Burma, and continued its push northward. In March 1752, its forces captured Ava, and ended the 266-year-old Toungoo dynasty.\n\nA new dynasty called Konbaung led by King Alaungpaya rose in Upper Burma to challenge the southern forces, and went on to conquer all of Upper Burma by December 1753. After Hanthawaddy's invasion of Upper Burma failed in 1754, the kingdom came unglued. Its leadership in self-defeating measures killed off the Toungoo royal family, and persecuted ethnic Burmans in the south, both of which only strengthened Alaungpaya's hand. In 1755, Alaungpaya invaded Lower Burma. Konbaung forces captured the Irrawaddy delta in May 1755, the French defended port of Thanlyin in July 1756, and finally the capital Pegu in May 1757.\n\nThe fall of Restored Hanthawaddy was the beginning of the end of Mon people's centuries-old dominance of Lower Burma. Konbaung armies' reprisals forced thousands of Mons to flee to Siam. By the early 19th century, assimilation, inter-marriage, and mass migration of Burman families from the north had reduced the Mon population to a small minority.\n\nThe southern rebellion was the most serious threat to the Toungoo Dynasty, which was already on its last legs. Its weak kings had been unable to stem the constant raids on the Chindwin river valley by the Meiteis since 1724, or put down a nagging rebellion in Lan Na in the east since 1727. The Ava-appointed governor at Pegu was assassinated on by the local court. The court elected a Mon-speaking Burman of royal lineage with the Mon title of Smim Htaw Buddhaketi, as king of Hanthawaddy on .\n\nIn 1742, the Hanthawaddy forces started raiding annually up the Irrawaddy river as far as Ava. By 1745, Hanthawaddy controlled much of Lower Burma, and parts of Upper Burma up to Prome and Toungoo. (The new kingdom did not control the northern Tenasserim coast. The rulers of Martaban (Mottama) and Tavoy (Dawei) sought and received Siamese protection.)\n\nThe low grade warfare continued until November 1751 when Binnya Dala, who succeeded Smim Htaw as king in 1747, launched a full-scale invasion of Upper Burma. The Hanthawaddy armies gradually advanced north, and finally sacked the capital city of Ava in March 1752. The royal family was deported to Pegu. Mistakenly thinking that Upper Burma had been won, the Hanthawaddy leadership prematurely returned to Pegu, leaving only a third of the forces led by Gen. Dalaban to mop up the final resistance in upcountry Burma.\n\nThe inevitable Burman resistance came swiftly. In March 1752, a village headman of Moksobo named Aung Zeya founded the Konbaung Dynasty with the title of Alaungpaya to resist the Mon occupation. Alaungpaya rapidly gained a following from all over Upper Burma. By December 1752, he had reconquered all of Upper Burma north of Ava, and the city itself a year later. In March 1754, Binnya Dala invaded Upper Burma with the entire army. The invasion went well at first, laying siege to Ava and advancing deep into upcountry but ultimately faltered, driven back with heavy losses.\n\nFollowing the defeat, the leadership of Hanthawaddy escalated its \"self-defeating\" policies of ethnic polarization in the south. It executed all Avan captives, including the last king of Toungoo, and began requiring all Burmans in the south to wear an earring with a stamp of the Pegu heir-apparent and to cut their hair in Mon fashion as a sign of loyalty.\n\nIn 1755, Alaungpaya began the southern push, capturing the Irrawaddy delta in April and Dagon (now Yangon) in May. The French defended port city of Syriam (Thanlyin) was taken only after a 14-month siege in July 1756. With French support cut off, the end of the kingdom followed. The capital Pegu fell on 6 May 1757.\n\nThe fall of the kingdom was the end of independence for the Mon people as well as their centuries-old dominance of Lower Burma. Konbaung armies' indiscriminate sacking of the low country forced thousands of Mons to flee to Siam. Ethnic Burman families from the north also began settling in the delta. By the early 19th century, assimilation and inter-marriage had reduced the Mon population to a small minority.\n\n"}
{"id": "1363368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1363368", "title": "Stereotypy", "text": "Stereotypy\n\nA stereotypy (, or ) is a repetitive or ritualistic movement, posture, or utterance. Stereotypies may be simple movements such as body rocking, or complex, such as self-caressing, crossing and uncrossing of legs, and marching in place. They are found in people with intellectual disabilities, autism spectrum disorders, tardive dyskinesia and stereotypic movement disorder, but may also be encountered in neurotypical individuals as well. Studies have shown stereotypies associated with some types of schizophrenia. Frontotemporal dementia is also a common neurological cause of repetitive behaviors and stereotypies. Several causes have been hypothesized for stereotypy, and several treatment options are available.\n\nStereotypy is sometimes called \"stimming\" in autism, under the hypothesis that it self-stimulates one or more senses. Related terms include punding and (more colloquially) \"tweaking\" to describe repetitive behavior that is a side effect of some drugs.\n\nAmong people with frontotemporal lobar degeneration, more than half (60%) had stereotypies. The time to onset of stereotypies in people with frontotemporal lobar degeneration may be years (average 2.1 years).\n\nLike tics, stereotypies are patterned and periodic, and are made worse by fatigue, stress, and anxiety. Unlike tics, stereotypies usually begin before the age of three, involve more of the body, are more rhythmic and less random, and are associated more with engrossment in another activity rather than premonitory urges. Examples of early tics are things like blinking and throat clearing, while arm flapping is a more common stereotypy. Stereotypies do not have the ever-changing, waxing and waning nature of tics, and can remain constant for years. Tics are usually suppressible for brief periods; in contrast, children rarely consciously attempt to control a stereotypy, although they can be distracted from one.\n\nThere are several possible explanations for stereotypy, and different stereotyped behaviors may have different explanations. A popular explanation is stimming, which hypothesizes that a particular stereotyped behavior has a function related to sensory input. Other explanations include hypotheses that stereotypy discharges tension or expresses frustration, that it communicates a need for attention or reinforcement or sensory stimulation, that it is learned or neuropathological or some combination of the two, or that it is normal behavior with no particular explanation needed.\n\nPunding is a term that was coined originally to describe complex prolonged, purposeless, and stereotyped behavior in chronic amphetamine users; it was later described in Parkinson's disease. Punding is a compulsion to perform repetitive mechanical tasks, such as sorting, collecting, or assembling and disassembling common items. Punding may occur in individuals with Parkinson's disease treated with dopaminergic agents such as L-DOPA.\n\nTweaking is a slang term for compulsive or repetitive behavior; it refers to someone exhibiting pronounced symptoms of methamphetamine or amphetamine use.\n\nStereotypies also occur in non-human animals. It is considered an abnormal behavior and is sometimes seen in captive animals, particularly those held in small enclosures with little opportunity to engage in more normal behaviors. These behaviors may be maladaptive, involving self-injury or reduced reproductive success, and in laboratory animals can confound behavioral research. Examples of stereotypical behaviors include pacing, rocking, swimming in circles, excessive sleeping, self-mutilation (including feather picking and excessive grooming), and mouthing cage bars. Stereotypies are seen in many species, including primates, birds, and carnivores. Up to 40% of elephants in zoos display stereotypical behaviors. Stereotypies are well known in stabled horses, usually developing as a result of being confined, particularly with insufficient exercise. They are colloquially called stable vices. They present a management issue, not only leading to facility damage from chewing, kicking, and repetitive motion, but also lead to health consequences for the animal if not addressed.\n\nStereotypical behaviors are thought to be caused ultimately by artificial environments that do not allow animals to satisfy their normal behavioral needs. Rather than refer to the behavior as abnormal, it has been suggested that it be described as \"behavior indicative of an abnormal environment.\" Stereotypies are correlated with altered behavioral response selection in the basal ganglia. As stereotypies are frequently viewed as a sign of psychological distress in animals, there is also an animal welfare issue involved.\n\nStereotypical behavior can sometimes be reduced or eliminated by environmental enrichment, including larger and more stimulating enclosures, training, and introductions of stimuli (such as objects, sounds, or scents) to the animal's environment. The enrichment must be varied to remain effective for any length of time. Housing social animals with other members of their species is also helpful. But once the behavior is established, it is sometimes impossible to eliminate due to alterations in the brain.\n\n"}
{"id": "7287735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7287735", "title": "Tellus Institute", "text": "Tellus Institute\n\nThe Tellus Institute is a non-profit research and policy organization based in Boston, Massachusetts. Its mission is to advance the transition to a sustainable, equitable, and humane global civilization. The Tellus Institute was founded in 1976 by Paul Raskin, Richard Rosen, Stephen Bernow, John Stutz, and David Nichols for the purpose of research on resource and environmental strategies. Dr. Paul Raskin is the President of the Institute. Initially called the Energy Systems Research Group (ESRG), the Institute adopted its current name in 1990.\n\nSince 1976, Tellus has conducted over 3,500 resource management and environmental strategy projects throughout the world. The Institute is well known in the environmental strategies domain for its many studies on state and municipality recycling programs, including its 1992 Packaging study, the 2008 Assessment of Options for Massachusetts' Solid Waste Master Plan, and the Preliminary Analysis of the Costs and Benefits of Bottle Bills study done for the US EPA.\n\nThrough the years Tellus has created numerous scientific tools and reports in many different areas, including energy, water, sustainable communities, corporate social responsibility, and climate change; however, since 2005 the Institute has shifted its focus to developing a Great Transition vision for a sustainable future.\n\nThe main body of Tellus' current research specializes in the application of quantitative analysis to the development of possible future scenarios.\n\nTellus has also launched a number of subsidiary working groups and research programs:\n\n\nTellus developed and uses a series of software programs in its research. These programs were designed for strategic planning and scenario analysis, allowing the user to create, evaluate, and compare alternative futures based on current data and hypothetical trends. Long range Energy Alternatives Planning (LEAP) System software facilitates energy-environment planning; WEAP, water planning; WastePlan, solid waste planning; and PoleStar, sustainability planning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46785570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46785570", "title": "The Lifestyle", "text": "The Lifestyle\n\nThe Lifestyle is a 1999 American documentary about swinging in the United States.\n\n"}
