{"id": "50564638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50564638", "title": "AirDine", "text": "AirDine\n\nAirDine was a supper club mobile app based on the sharing economy principles where individuals stand as both supplier and customer, similar to Airbnb in the short time rental market.\n\nAirDine discontinued their service after 31 October 2017.\nAirDine is an online marketplace for home dining that connects users that likes to cook (often professional chef or homecooks) with users looking for a fun dining experience. Users are categorized as \"Hosts\" and \"Guests,\" both of whom must register with AirDine using a variety of means.\n\nProfiles include details such as user reviews and shared social connections to build a reputation and trust among users of the marketplace. Other elements of the AirDine profile include user recommendations and a private messaging system.\n\nAirDine is a peer-to-peer home dining market place that connects hosts and guests via its app. AirDine enables transactions between these two entities by charging a 'service fee' without directly hosting any dinners by itself. This new business model disrupt traditional industries by creating new sources of supply and rely on curation for developing quality and self-attainment of maturity from the vendors, or the people operating on behalf of vendors. Security and safety of the host are not vetted by AirDine and are completely left to users to choose based on published reviews. Unlike traditional restaurants, AirDine scales not by scaling inventory and sales but by increasing the hosts and guests and matching them with each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "1029427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029427", "title": "Alebrije", "text": "Alebrije\n\nAlebrijes () are brightly colored Mexican folk art sculptures of fantastical (fantasy/mythical) creatures. The first alebrijes, along with use of the term, originated with Pedro Linares. In the 1930s, Linares fell very ill and while he was in bed, unconscious, Linares dreamt of a strange place resembling a forest. There, he saw trees, animals, rocks, clouds that suddenly turned into something strange, some kind of animals, but, unknown animals. He saw a donkey with butterfly wings, a rooster with bull horns, a lion with an eagle head, and all of them were shouting one word, \"Alebrijes\". Upon recovery, he began recreating the creatures he saw in cardboard and papier-mâché and called them Alebrijes.\n\nHis work caught the attention of a gallery owner in Cuernavaca, in the south of Mexico and later, of artists Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo. In the 1980s, British filmmaker Judith Bronowski arranged an itinerant Mexican art craft demonstration workshop in the United States featuring Pedro Linares, Manuel Jiménez and a textile artisan Maria Sabina from Oaxaca. Although the Oaxaca valley area already had a history of carving animals and other types of figures from wood, it was at this time, when Bronowski's workshop took place, that artisans from Oaxaca learned of the alebrijes paper mache sculptures. Linares demonstrated his designs on family visits and which were adapted to the carving of a local wood called copal; this type of wood is said to be magical, made from unitado magic.\n\nThe paper mache-to-wood carving adaptation was pioneered by Arrazola native Manuel Jiménez. This version of the craft has since spread to a number of other towns, most notably San Martín Tilcajete and La Unión Tejalapan, and has become a major source of income for the area, especially for Tilcajete. The success of the craft, however, has led to the depletion of the native copal trees. Attempts to remedy this with reforestation efforts and management of wild copal trees has had limited success. The three towns most closely associated with alebrije production in Oaxaca have produced a number of notable artisans such as Manuel Jiménez, Jacobo Angeles, Martin Sandiego, Julia Fuentes and Miguel Sandiego.\n\nAlebrijes originated in Mexico City in the 20th century, in 1936. The first alebrijes, as well as the name itself, are attributed to Pedro Linares, an artisan from México City (Distrito Federal), who specialized in making piñatas, carnival masks and “Judas” figures from cartonería (a kind of papier-mâché). He sold his work in markets such as the one in La Merced.\n\nIn 1936, when he was 30 years old, Linares fell ill with a high fever, which caused him to hallucinate. In his fever dreams, he was in a forest with rocks and clouds, many of which turned into wild, unnaturally colored creatures, frequently featuring wings, horns, tails, fierce teeth and bulging eyes. He heard a crowd of voices repeating the nonsense word “alebrije.” After he recovered, he began to re-create the creatures he'd seen, using papier-mâché and cardboard. Eventually, a Cuernavaca gallery owner discovered his work. This brought him to the attention of Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo, who began commissioning more alebrijes. The tradition grew considerably after British filmmaker Judith Bronowski's 1975 documentary on Linares.\n\nLinares received Mexico's National Arts and Sciences Award in the Popular Arts and Traditions category in 1990, two years before he died. This inspired other alebrije artists, and Linares’ work became prized both in Mexico and abroad. Rivera said that no one else could have fashioned the strange figures he requested; work done by Linares for Rivera is now displayed at the Anahuacalli Museum in Mexico City.\n\nThe descendants of Pedro Linares, many of whom live in Mexico City near the Sonora Market, carry on the tradition of making alebrijes and other figures from cardboard and papier-mâché. Their customers have included the Rolling Stones and David Copperfield. The Stones gave the family tickets to their show. Various branches of the family occupy a row of houses on the same street. Each family works in its own workshops in their own houses but they will lend each other a hand with big orders. Demand rises and falls; sometimes there is no work and sometimes families work 18 hours a day.\n\nThe original designs for Pedro Linares' alebrijes have fallen into the public domain. However, according to Chapter Three of the 1996 Mexican federal copyright law, it is illegal to sell crafts made in Mexico without acknowledging the community and region they are from, or to alter the crafts in a way that could be interpreted as damaging to the culture’s reputation or image. The law applied to the commercialization of the crafts as well as to their public exhibition and the use of their images. However, this law is rarely enforced; most crafts sellers in Mexico rarely give the origin of their products are from. The name “alebrijes” is used for a wide variety of crafts even though the Linares family has sought to gain control over the name. The family says that pieces which are not made by them and do not come from Mexico City should state so. The Linares family continues to export their work to the most important galleries showing Mexican art worldwide. For example, \"Beasts and Bones: The Cartonería of the Linares Family\" in Carlsbad, California, featured about seventy alebrijes and was so popular that it was extended by several weeks.\n\nHowever, because a variety of artists and artisans have been creating alebrijes in their own styles, the craft has become part of Mexico's folk art repertoire. No two alebrijes are exactly alike. Outside of the Linares family, one of the most noted alebrije artists is Susana Buyo, who learned to work with cardboard and papier-mâché at one of the Linares family workshops. Known as the “Señora de los Monstruos” by the local children in Condesa, an upscale neighborhood of Mexico City, she is a native Argentine and naturalized Mexican citizen. Her work can be found across Mexico City and elsewhere, such as those in Europe. Her work differs from that of the Linares in that many of her designs include human contours and many with expressions more tender than terrifying. She also uses nontraditional materials such as feathers, fantasy stones and modern resins, both for novelty and for durability.\n\nWhile Pedro Linares dreamed of the creatures, they did not surface in a vacuum. Similarities and parallels can be drawn between alebrijes and various supernatural creatures from Mexico’s indigenous and European past. In pre-Hispanic art, the brightly colored images were often fantastic and macabre. Influences from Mexico City’s Chinatown, especially in the dragons, and Gothic art such as gargoyles can be seen. Red cardboard demons called judas, which Linares made, are still made to be burned in Mexico during Holy Week in purification rituals. More recent predecessors in Mexican culture, artists Julio Ruelas and graphics artist/commentator José Guadalupe Posada, created fantastic and sometimes terrifying images. Alebrijes, especially the monsters, have gained a reputation for “scaring away bad spirits” and protecting the home. Some, like master craftsman Christian David Mendez, claim that there is a certain mysticism involved in the making and owning of alebrijes, with parts of certain animals representing human characteristics.\n\nA more recent phenomenon, the annual Monumental Alebrije Parade, has been sponsored by the Museo de Arte Popular in Mexico City since 2007. The 2009 parade featured more than 130 giant alebrijes made of wood, cardboard, paper, wire and other materials, and marched from the Zocalo in the historic center of the city to the Angel of Independence monument on Paseo de la Reforma. Entries by artisans, artists, families and groups each year have gotten bigger, more creative and more numerous, with names like\nand are accompanied by bands playing popular Mexican music. At the end of the parade, the pieces are lined up on Paseo de la Reforma for judging and displayed for two weeks. The 2010 alebrije parade had themes related to the Bicentennial of the Independence of Mexico and the Centennial of the Mexican Revolution, although Walter Boelsterly, head of the Museo de Artes Populares, concedes that such may require a bit of tolerance because it can lead to revered figures such as Miguel Hidalgo and Ignacio Allende with animal parts. However, he states that the aim is to celebrate and not to mock. In addition to the annual parade, the Museum has sponsored alebrije shows such as the three-meter tall alebrije which captured attention at the Feria International del Libro in Bogotá. The word “alebrije” was not known in Colombia, so the locals dubbed it a “dragoncito” (little dragon). Along with “dragoncito” 150 other, smaller pieces of Mexican crafts were shown.\n\nMany rural households in the Mexican state of Oaxaca have prospered over the past three decades through the sale of brightly painted, whimsical wood carvings they call alebrijes to international tourists and the owners of ethnic arts shops in the United States, Canada, and Europe. What are called “alebrijes” in Oaxaca is a marriage of native woodcarving traditions and influence from Pedro Linares’ work in Mexico City.\n\nPedro Linares was originally from México City (Distrito Federal). In the 1980s, British filmmaker, Judith Bronowski, arranged an itinerant demonstration workshop in the United States participating Pedro Linares, Manuel Jiménez and a textil artisan Maria Sabina from Oaxaca. Although the Oaxaca valley area already had a history of carving animal and other types of figures from wood, it was at this time, when Bronowski's workshop took place when artisans from Oaxaca knew the alebrijes paper mache sculptures. Then Linares’ designs were adapted to the carving of a local wood called copal. The Oaxaca valley area already had a history of carving animal and other types of figures from wood, and Linares’ designs were adapted to the carving of a local wood called copal. This adaptation was pioneered by Arrazola native Manuel Jiménez. This version of the craft has since spread to a number of other towns, most notably San Martín Tilcajete and La Unión Tejalapan, become a major source of income for the area, especially for Tilcajete. The success of the craft, however, has led to the depletion of the native copal trees. Attempts to remedy this, with reforestation efforts and management of wild copal trees has only had limited success. The three towns most closely associated with alebrije production in Oaxaca have produced a number of notable artisans such as Manuel Jiménez, Jacobo Angeles, Martin Sandiego, Julia Fuentes and Miguel Sandiego.\nOne of the most important things about the fantastical creatures carved of wood is that every piece is removable, it's how you can tell you have a piece carved by one of the original great carvers. The later carvers didn't learn the technique of making each piece fit so well that it could be removed and put back in again and again. Those pieces have more than tripled in value. The painting on these figures is also more intense and varied.\nThe first to copy the fantastic forms and bright colors was Manuel Jiménez, who carved the figures in local copal wood rather than using paper. Animal figures had always been carved in the central valleys area of Oaxaca by the Zapotecs since the pre-Hispanic period. Totems of local animals were carved for luck or religious purposes as well as hunting decoys. Figures were also carved for children as toys, a tradition that continued well into the 20th century. After the craft became popular in Arrazola, it spread to Tilcajete and from there to a number of other communities, and now the three main communities are, San Antonino Arrazola, San Martin Tilcajete and La Union Tejalapam, each of which has developed its own style. The carving of wood figures did not have a name, so the name “alebrije” eventually became adopted for any carved, brightly colored figure of copal wood, whether it is of a real animal or not. To make the distinction, the carvings of fantastic creatures, closer to Linares’ alebrijes, are now sometimes called “marcianos” (lit. Martians). Oaxacan alebrijes have eclipsed the Mexico City version, with a large number of stores in and around the city of Oaxaca selling the pieces, and it is estimated that more than 150 families in the same area make a living making the figures.\n\nWoodcarving, along with other crafts in Oaxaca, grew in importance as the state opened up to tourism. This started in the 1940s with the Pan-American Highway and has continued to this day with the construction of more roads, airports and other transportation coincided with the rising prosperity of the U.S. and Canada making Mexico an affordable exotic vacation. Oaxacan woodcarving began to be bought in the 1960s by hippies. Prior to the 1980s, most of the woodcarvings were natural and spiritual world of the communities, featuring farm animals, farmers, angels and the like. These pieces, now referred to as \"rustic\" (nistico), were carved and painted in a simple manner. Later known for their alebrijes, carvers such as Manuel Jimenez of Arrazola, Isadoro Cruz of Tilcajete and Martin Sandiego of La Union began by carving animals as youths, often while doing other chores such as tending sheep. By the 1960s and 1970s, these carvers had enough of a reputation to sell their work in the city of Oaxaca. As more dealers shipping to other parts of Mexico and abroad visited the rural villages, more exotic animals such as lions, elephants and the like were added, and eventually came to dominate the trade. Eventually, traditional paints gave way to acrylics as well. Another development that encouraged woodcarving were artisans’ contests held by the state of Oaxaca in the 1970s, which encouraged carvers to try new ideas in order to win prizes and sell their pieces to state museums.\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s, carvers in the three villages sold pieces mostly to store owners in Oaxaca, with only one carver, Manuel Jimenez, carving full-time. Most other carvers used the craft to supplement incomes from farming and wage labor. It was also considered to be a male occupation. In the mid-1980s, the influence of the Linares alebrijes was becoming popular and wholesalers and store owners from the United States, began to deal with artisans in Oaxaca directly. The desire of the foreign merchants for non-indigenous animals and the newly popular alebrijes affected the market. By 1990, woodcarving had begun to boom with most households in Arrazola and Tilcajete earning at least part of their income from the craft. La Union was less successful in attracting dealers and tourists. The boom had a dramatic economic effect, shifting the economies of Arrazola and Tilcajete away from farming and towards carving. It also affected the carvings that were being produced. Carvings became more complicated and paintings more ornate as families competed against each other. Specialization also occurred with neophyte carvers looking for a niche to compete with already established carvers. The craft continued to become established in the 1990s as more families carved and more tourists came to Oaxaca with the building of new roads. Some of these new Oaxacan crafters have extended the design to smooth – abstract painted realistic animals, especially the Mendoza family (Luis Pablo, David Pablo and Moises Pablo a.k.a. Ariel Playas), creating a new generation of alebrijes.\n\nWhile the sales trend has been mostly positive for Oaxacan alebrijes, it is dependent on global market fluctuations and on tourism to Oaxaca. There was a decline in sales in the late 1980s, possibly due to global market saturation and the dominance of repetitive, unimaginative designs. Sales rose again in the 1990s. Sales fell again in 2001, when tourism from the U.S. fell and fell again precipitously 2006 due to statewide social unrest. It has not fully recovered since.\n\nThe alebrije market is divided into two levels, the production of unique, high-quality, labor-intensive pieces and the production of repetitive, average quality and inexpensive pieces. Those who have produced exceptionally fine pieces have gained reputations as artists, commanding high prices. Larger pieces are generally made only by the better carving families. While pieces can be bought and ordered from the artisans directly, most sell to middlemen who in turn sell them to outlets in Mexico and abroad. The most successful carving families sell almost exclusively to dealers and may have only a few pieces available for the drop-in visitor. Within Mexico, Oaxacan alebrijes are often sold in tourist locations such as Oaxaca city, La Paz, Cancún, Cozumel and Puerto Escondido. Most pieces sold internationally go to the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan, where the most expensive pieces end up in ethnic craft stores in urban areas, university towns and upscale resorts. Cheaper pieces tend to be sold at trade shows and gift shops. Tourists who buy pieces directly from carvers pay about twice what wholesalers do. The price of each piece depends on the quality, coloring, size, originality and sometimes the reputation of the carver. The most expensive pieces are most often sent abroad. Pieces sold retail in Oaxaca generally range from US$1 to $200. The most commercialized figures are those of dogs, armadillos, iguanas, giraffes, cats, elephants, zebras, deer, dolphins, sharks and fish. Animals are often painted with bright colors and designs and carved with exaggerated features that bear little resemblance to what occurs in the natural world. Anthropomorphism is common and carvings of animals playing musical instruments, golfing, fishing, and engaging in other human pursuits are very popular.\nFantastic creatures such as dragons and chimeras and others are also carved, even carvings of Benito Juárez, Subcomandante Marcos, chupacabras (imaginary beings that eat goats), \"Martians,\" mermaids, and helicopters. The diversity of the figures is due to a segmented market both in Mexico and abroad which rewards novelty and specialization. In a number of cases, carvings return to images from Mexican culture such as angels, saints, and Virgins, which will have somber faces even if they are painted in very bright colors. Devils and skeletons are often parts of more festive scenes depicting them, for example, riding dogs and drinking. Foreign customers demand more creative figures with little repetition. Prices abroad range from between three and five times the retail price in Oaxaca, with a median of US$100, with lowest usually around $10 and highest around $2,000. One of the most expensive pieces sold from a carving village occurred in 1995, when a doctor from Mexico City paid Isidro Cruz of Tilcajete the equivalent of US$3000 for a piece entitled “Carousel of the Americas.” This piece took Cruz three months to complete.\nTypical household income of families from Arrazola and Tilcajete averages about US$2000 per year, but exceptional artists can earn up to $20,000 per year. Two thousand a year is substantially more than average in Oaxaca and allows families to build or expand housing and send children to secondary school. However, most families carve as a sideline with agriculture providing basic staples. In some towns, especially in Tilcajete, the economy has shifted from agriculture to the making of wood carvings with a number of families abandoning farming altogether. However, for most households in Oaxaca, the success of alebrijes has not replaced the need to farm or to alleviated the need to send family members to Mexico City or to the United States and work and send remittances back home.\n\nDespite Oaxaca’s reputation for the production of crafts by indigenous peoples, alebrije makers are monolingual Spanish speakers who generally do not identify themselves as a member of an indigenous group although almost all have Zapotec ancestors. The alebrijes are considered to be novelty items for the makers rather than expressions of a cultural heritage. More traditional woodcarving, such as utensils, toys, religious figures and the like are still made by older residents, but these crafts are overshadowed by alebrijes. Approximately 150 families now devote themselves at least part-time to the making of alebrijes, with carving techniques being passed down from generation to generation and many children growing up around fantastic figures both finished and in process.\n\nDue to copies from other places, a certification scheme is being considered to ensure the viability of crafts from this area. That would include educating consumers and working with reputable stores.\n\nThe carving of a piece, which is done while the wood is still wet, can last anywhere from hours to a month, depending on the size and fineness of the piece. Often the copal wood that is used will influence what is made, both because of the shapes the branches can take and because male and female trees differ in hardness and shape. Carving is done with non-mechanical hand tools such as machetes, chisels and knives. The only time a more sophisticated tool is used is when a chain saw is employed to cut off a branch or level a base for the proposed figure. The basic shape of the creature is usually hacked using a machete, then a series of smaller knives used as the final shape is achieved. Certain details such as ears, tails and wings are usually made from pieces separate from the one for the main body.\n\nAfter the carving, the figure is then left to dry for up to ten months, depending on its overall size and thickness. Semi tropical wood such as copal is susceptible to insect infestations, and for this reason drying pieces are often soaked in gasoline and sometimes baked to ensure that all insect eggs have been destroyed. As the figure dries, it is also susceptible to cracking. The cracks are filled with small pieces of copal wood and a sawdust resin mixture before painting.\nOaxaca woodcarvings were all originally painted with aniline paints made with natural ingredients such as bark of the copal tree, baking soda, lime juice, pomegranate seeds, zinc, indigo, huitlacoche and cochineal. These colorings were also used for dying clothing, ceremonial paints and other uses. Since 1985, most carvers have now switched to acrylics which resist fading and withstand repeated cleanings better. However, some still use aniline paints as they have a more rustic look that some customers prefer. Either way, the painting is generally done in two layers, with a solid undercoat and a multicolored designed superimposed.\n\nOriginally, woodcarving was a solitary activity with all aspects done by one person, usually a male. As sales soared in the 1980s, the work began to be shared among family members. Women and children help mostly with sanding and painting, leaving men to contribute less than half of the work that goes into the figures. Despite this, pieces are still referred to as the work of one person, usually the male carver. There are exceptions to this. There are men who paint better than they carve and in the community of San Pedro Taviche, women collect and carve wood about as often as the men. In most cases, all the work on pieces is done by family members. Families may hire other relatives or strangers if faced with a large order. However, only the most established of carving families can have any permanent outside help and a number of these refuse to hire outsiders.\n\nAlmost all alebrije carvers in Oaxaca use the wood of trees from the genus \"Bursera\" (Family burseraceae), with a preference for the species \"B. glabrifolia\", which is locally called copal or copalillo. This tree is typically found in dry tropical forests in Oaxaca and neighboring states. The exceptions are Isidro Cruz of Tilcajete, who uses “zompantle” (\"Erythrina coralloides\") and the Manuel Jimenez family, which carves in tropical cedar (\"Cedrela odorata\") imported from Guatemala.\n\nOriginally, carvers obtained wood from the local forests on their own. Copal trees are short and squat and do not yield much wood; every piece is used. Despite this, the success of woodcarving caused an unsustainable drain on local wild copal, and nearly all of the trees near Tilcajete and Arrazola have disappeared. This localized depletion soon gave rise to a copal wood market in Oaxaca, even though many of the copal trees in other parts are of a different subspecies, which has more knots. Obtaining wood is a complex exercise because negotiating with other municipalities requires navigating complex social, legal and economic norms, and in many cases, state and federal environmental authorities have stepped in to try to preserve wild copal trees in a number of areas. Some communities have simply refused to sell their wood. These difficulties has led to a black market in copal wood, with carvers purchasing most of their supplies from venders called “copaleros.” Harvesting copalillo is not a complex task; trees are relatively small and the wood is soft. Trees are felled using an axe or chainsaw. Branches are cut with machetes. Most harvesting occurs on ejidal (communal) lands. Legal or not, the purchase of copal wood from other parts of Oaxaca is putting unsustainable pressure on wild populations in a wider area, forcing copaleros to go further to obtain wood and often to deal with angry locals and police who alternately seek bribes and enforce the law. Eventually, this led to about only six copaleros which control most of the wood being sold, and these supplies' being unreliable. The federal government states that most of the figures are made with illegally obtained wood.\n\nSecuring supplies of copal wood is a major concern for woodcarvers. Despite the fact that the cost of the wood is not particularly high, despite the effort, the main issue is reliability. Another issue for carvers is quality. Artisans will pay more for their wood only if they are sure they can pass the added cost onto their customers. A number of attempts to grow the trees for woodcarving purpose have been undertaken. Copal is a native tree species to the area, so it grows readily without much care. It takes anywhere from five to ten years for a tree to grow big enough to be harvested (branches or entire tree). Some of the efforts include reforestation efforts sponsored by groups such as the Rodolfo Morales Foundation in Ocotlan, and a number of families spend time planting trees during the rainy season. Some have begun copal plantations. However, current needs for the wood far outweigh what these efforts have been able to produce.\n\nAnother effort involves a program designed to manage wild copal supplies in a municipality called San Juan Bautista Jayacatlán. This arrangement has economic advantages for both the alebrije-makers and the owners of the forests where the wood is produced. It has not been developed sufficiently yet to affect the illegal harvest of wood, but its organizers hope that in time, it will become the more economical and preferred method. The difference between this program and others is that this works within the broader ethnobotanical context by promoting the management of the species within its native habitat. Jayacatlán is located next to the recently established biosphere reserve of Tehuacán-Cuicatlán. The benefit to Jayacatlán is to give the municipality a way to exploit its copal supplies and preserve its biodiversity at the same time. The benefit to carvers is to promote a reliable source of wood, as well as a trademark called “ecoalebrijes” to help them sell more alebrijes at a higher price. However, the wood from Jayacatlan is only sold to Arrazola and not to the other major center of Tilcajete. The enthusiasm of Arrazola’s woodcarvers stems more from having a supply of good wood than from notions of ecology.\n\nOf the three major carving towns, San Martin Tilcajete has experience the most success. This success is mostly due to carver Isidro Cruz, who learned to carve when he was thirteen during a long illness in the late 1940s. His work was sold locally and eventually noticed by Tonatiúh Gutierrez, the director of expositions for the Mexican National Tourist Council, later a government agency in charge of promoting crafts. He encouraged Cruz to carve masks and later appointed him in charge of a state craft buying center. Cruz worked at this for four years, learning much about craft selling and getting others from Tilcajete connected to the market. Unlike other carvers, Cruz was open about his techniques and by the late 1970s, about ten men were carving and selling in Tilcajete. Cruz not only taught his methods to others, he was able to purchase many of his neighbors’ works. Cruz’s efforts stimulated new styles of carving, such as alebrijes, and their sale in the city of Oaxaca. By the 1980s, there were four families devoted to carving full-time, with the rest splitting their time between crafts and agriculture. Through the 1960s and to the 1980s, embroidered shirts, blouses and dresses were still a well-received craft from Tilcajete, but by the end of the 1980s, most families were involved in carving alebrijes.\n\nToday, the carving of alebrijes is the economic base of Tilcajete. Every Friday on the main square is the “tianguis del alebrije” or weekly market selling wooden figures. The event allows visitors to purchase items from local craftsmen directly. There are usually also vendors selling other local products such as ice cream as well. Annually, the municipality holds its Feria del Alebrije (Alebrije Festival), which features alebrije sales and exhibitions, music, dance and theatre. There are also offerings of local and regional cuisine. More than 100 vendors attend, selling alebrijes, textiles, local dishes, artwork and locally made alcoholic beverages. It is sponsored by the Master Craftsmen Group of Tilcajete (Grupo de Maestros Talladoes de Tilcajete), which includes Hedilberto Olivera, Emilia Calvo, Roberta Ángeles, Juventino Melchor, Martin Melchor, Margarito Melchor Fuentes, Margarito Melchor Santiago, José Olivera Pérez, Jesús Melchor García, Vásquez, María Jiménez, Cira Ojeda, Jacobo and María Ángeles, Justo Xuana, Victor Xuana, Rene Xuana, Abad Xuana, Flor and Ana Xuana, Rogelio Alonso, who works in paper maiche and Doris Arellano, who is a painter.\n\nSome of the better known artisans in Tilcajete include Delfino Gutierrez, sisters Ana and Marta Bricia Hernandez, the family of Efrain and Silvia Fuentes, Coindo Melchor, Margarito Melchor and Maria Jimenez. Delfino Gutierrez specializes in free-form elephants, frogs, turtles, armadillos and more which are sold in stores in Chicago, California, New York and Israel. The Hernandez sisters sell primarily from their home and known for their painting style. The Fuentes family gained fame from Efrain’s carving talents. He was featured in an exhibit in Santa Fe, NM when he was only 13 and his work has been featured in at least one book. Margarito Melchor specializes in cats, and Coindo Melchor carves elaborate ox teams with bulls, driver, and a cart filled with animals and crops as well as creatures that have been described as “bird headed women.” Maria Jimenez and her brothers specialize in saints and angels as well as some animals. Maria is the best known painter in the Oaxacan community. She says that she has about thirty designs that she has developed for carvings, many of which are related to when she made embroidered dresses.\n\nThe most successful artisan is Jacobo Angeles, whose work have been prominently displayed at The Smithsonian and the National Museum of Mexican Art in Chicago. It can also be found in numerous museums, art colleges and galleries in the world. Jacobo learned to carve from his father when he was twelve, and later was mentored by elders in his and other communities. While alebrijes designs have been innovative and incorporating modern elements, the Angeles family’s designs focus on representations of Zapotec culture. This can be seen in the painted designs, based on influences such as the friezes of Mitla, and other ancient symbols as well as the continued use in aniline paints made from natural ingredients such as the bark of the copal tree, baking soda, lime juice, pomegranate seeds, zinc, indigo, huitlacoche and cochineal. Each year, Jacobo travels the United States to promote Oaxacan folk art in general to educational institution as well as a speaker at art institutions.\n\nThe making of alebrijes in Oaxaca was initially established in Arrazola by Manuel Jimenez. Jimenez began carving wooden figures since he was a boy tending animals in the 1920s. By the late 1950s and early 1960s, Jimenez’s work was being sold in the city of Oaxaca, which led them to being shown to folk art collectors such as Nelson Rockefeller. By the late 1960s, he was giving exhibitions in museums in Mexico City and the United States and tourists began visiting his workshop in the 1970s. He kept his carving techniques strictly within the family with only his sons and a son in law carving with him. For this reason, only six families were carving alebrijes in Arrazola as late as 1985. Jimenez died in 2005. Today, Jimenez’s works fetch a minimum of US$100.\n\nMany carvers and carving communities engage in specialties in order to have niches in the more competitive alebrije market in Oaxaca. In Arrazola, one of the community’s specialty is the carving of complex animal bodies, especially iguanas out of one single piece of wood. Another way the community competes is through its annual festival “Cuna de los Alebrijes” (Cradle of the Alebrijes), which is held each year to promote its figures. This fair is cosponsored by the Secretary of Tourism for the state of Oaxaca. It occurs in the second half of December, during the Christmas season, with more than sixty artisans who make the figures. The goals are to draw more tourists to the town at this time and to make connections with stores, galleries and museums.\n\nLike Tilcajete, Arrazola has a number of well known artisans. Marcelo Hernandez Vasquez and his sisters have been making alebrijes for eighteen years, and Juan Carlos Santiago is sought out for his penguins. Antonio Aragon makes small, finely carved, realistic deer, dogs, lions and cats, and Sergio Aragon specializes in miniatures.\nOne of the best known is Miguel Santiago, who sells about forty pieces a year. Some of these sales are individual pieces and others are multiple sets such as Frida Kalo surrounded by monkeys. Sets are usually sold to foreign buyers for between US$300 and $800 and have been sent to Europe, Japan and the United States. Sets often take more than a month to make and his work is considered to be in the high end of the market. Santiago’s orders extend more than two years in advance. Santiago used to work with a brother and later with a nephew, but today he works mostly solo with his father to help. Another of the best known is one of the few female entrepreneurs in the market, Olga Santiago. She does not carve or paint, rather she hires others to do the work while she administrates. However, she signs all the pieces. Many of her carvers and painters are young men who leave quickly to form workshops of their own. While her workshop is not the only one run in this manner, hers is the newest and most successful. Olga’s client base is tourists, which are often brought to her by tour guides, taxi drivers and the like for a commission, and wholesalers.\n\nLa Union Tejalapan has not had the same success as Arrazola and Tilcajete because they have not been able to attract as many dealers or tourists. However, a significant market remains for simple rustic pieces (pre-alebrije) and pieces painted with traditional aniline paints, which La Union specializes in. These are popular with those seeking non alebrije pieces such as saints, angels, devils, skeletons and motifs related to Day of the Dead. Alebrije pieces are also made, but are painted simply with one or two colors with few decorations. La Union artisans make multipiece rodeos, fiestas, and nativity scenes. Another rustic aspect to La Union pieces is that legs can be nailed onto the torsos.\nThe first alebrije carver from La union was Martin Santiago. In the 1950s and 1960s, Santiago worked in the United States for various periods working as an agricultural laborer in the Bracero Program. When this program ended, Santiago found that he could not support his family by farming and began selling woodcarvings to a shop owner in Oaxaca. This arrangement ended after a complex dispute. Santiago then began carving and selling on his own with his four brothers and for many years the Santiago family was the only carvers in the community.\n\nToday there are a number of others involved in the craft. Aguilino Garcia sells fairly expensive skunks, crocodiles, armadillos, and palm trees. He has a reputation for working slowing but makes pieces that were selling for between 100 and 400 pesos in 1998. Better known is the husband and wife team of Reynaldo Santiago and Elodia Reyes, who have been carving since their marriage in the mid-1970s. Reynaldo is a nephew of Martin Santiago. Like in many other carving families, he carves while she paints. Their children are not involved in their business. While the couple make some large and medium-sized pieces, they specialize in miniatures (around seven cm), such as dogs, cats, giraffes, rabbits and goats which will for around 30 pesos each. Because La Union gets few tourists, the couple is mostly reliant on the store owners and wholesalers who buy from them. Today their major buyers are a wholesaler in California and a store owner in Texas.\n\nOutside of Mexico City and Oaxaca, alebrijes are known and made but mostly as a hobby rather than as a significant source of work. Most of these alebrijes are made with papier-mâché, wire, cardboard and sometimes with other materials such as cloth. Alebrije workshops and exhibitions have been held in Cancún. Workshops on the making of alebrijes with the purpose of selling them have been held in Cuautla, Morelos. In Tampico, workshops are given by Omar Villanueva. He has also given workshops in Nuevo Laredo, Campeche, Cancun, Playa del Carmen, Chetumal, Querétero and other places.\n\nOne alebrije craftsman in Cuautla is Marcos Zenteno, who has taught the craft to his daughter. He also gives workshops on the making of the craft to others. One of the major attractions at the Primer Festival Internacional de las Artes in Saltillo in 2000 were alebrijes, which came from workshops from Monclova, Sabinas, Parras de la Fuente and Saltillo.\nAn innovation in alebrijes are versions which are lighted, generally designed to be carried by a single person on the shoulders. Instead of cartonería, these alebrijes are made on movable metal frames, with LED lights and with cloth and/or plastic skin. This style of alebrije was first presented at a short parade dedicated to them in 2014 in Colonia Roma. These versions have been made in Mexico City by various artists, especially in workshops such as the Fábrica de Artes y Oficios Oriente. Exhibitions dedicated to the variation have attracted up to 6,000 people to the Museo de Arte Popular in Mexico City and have been displayed at Mexico International Festival of Lights.\n\n\nLinares Family website\n\"En Calavera: The Papier-mâché art of the Linares family\" by Susan N. Masuoka (casebound) / (softcover) UCLA Fowler Museum of Cultural History\n\n"}
{"id": "3029578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3029578", "title": "Annona (mythology)", "text": "Annona (mythology)\n\nIn ancient Roman religion, Annona (Latin annōna “corn, grain; means of subsistence”, from annus \"year\") is the divine personification of the grain supply to the city of Rome. She is closely connected to the goddess Ceres, with whom she is often depicted in art.\n\nAnnona, often as Annona Augusti, was a creation of Imperial religious propaganda, manifested in iconography and cult practice. She is presented as a theophany of the emperor's power to care for his people through the provision of grain. Annona thus lacked narrative mythology or a tradition of devotion in the Roman Republic, but once established as part of Imperial cult, she was the recipient of dedications and votive offerings from private individuals motivated by gratitude or the seeking of favor.\n\nIn the propaganda of Claudius, the cult of \"Ceres Augusta\" made explicit the divine power that lay in the Imperial provision of the \"annona\", the grain supply to the city. Annona Augusti appears on coins late in the reign of Nero, when the Cult of Virtues came into prominence in the wake of the Pisonian conspiracy. She embodied two of the material benefits of Imperial rule, along with Securitas Augusti, \"Augustan Security,\" and often appeared as part of a pair with Ceres. On Neronian coinage, Ceres, Annona, and Abundantia (\"Abundance\") were closely associated.\n\nAnnona also appears on coins issued under Vespasian, where along with other Virtues she represents the restoration of confidence in the principate, and on the coinage of Titus, Domitian, Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus Pius, and Septimius Severus. She was a particular favorite in Trajan's propaganda, which sought to portray his reign as a renewal and a prosperous new era for humanity; hence Annona often appears with a symbolic child. In the context of Trajanic politics, Annona represented Rome's grain independence from its traditional supplier Egypt.\n\nAnnona is typically depicted with a cornucopia (horn of plenty) in her arm, and a ship's prow in the background, alluding to the transport of grain into the harbor of Rome. On coins, she frequently stands between a modius (grain-measure) and the prow of a galley, with ears of grain in one hand and a cornucopia in the other; sometimes she holds a rudder or an anchor.\n\nThe crater Annona in the southern hemisphere of the dwarf planet Ceres was named after this deity.\n"}
{"id": "1053299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1053299", "title": "Anti-Catholicism", "text": "Anti-Catholicism\n\nAnti-Catholicism is hostility towards Catholics or opposition to the Catholic Church, its clergy and its adherents. At various points after the Reformation, some majority Protestant states, including England, Prussia, and also Scotland made anti-Catholicism and opposition to the Pope and Catholic rituals major political themes, with anti-Catholic sentiment at times leading to religious discrimination against Catholic individuals (often derogatorily referred to in Anglophone Protestant countries as \"papists\" or \"Romanists\"). Historian John Wolffe identifies four types of anti-Catholicism: constitutional-national, theological, popular and socio-cultural.\n\nHistorically, Catholics in Protestant countries were frequently suspected of conspiring against the state in furtherance of papal interests. Support for the alien pope led to allegations challenging loyalty to the state. In majority Protestant countries with large scale immigration, such as the United States and Australia, suspicion or discrimination of Catholic immigrants often overlapped or conflated with nativism, xenophobia, and ethnocentric or racist sentiments (i.e. anti-Italianism, anti-Irish sentiment, Hispanophobia, anti-Quebec sentiment, anti-Polish sentiment).\n\nIn the Early modern period, the Catholic Church struggled to maintain its traditional religious and political role in the face of rising secular powers in Catholic countries. As a result of these struggles, there arose a hostile attitude towards the considerable political, social, spiritual and religious power of the Pope and the clergy in the form of anti-clericalism. The Inquisition was a favorite target of attack. Anti-clerical forces gained strength after 1789 in some primarily Catholic nations, such as France, Spain and Mexico. Political parties formed that expressed a hostile attitude towards the considerable political, social, spiritual and religious power of Catholic Church in the form of anti-clericalism, attacks on the power of the pope to name bishops, and international orders, especially the Jesuits.\n\nProtestant Reformers, including John Wycliffe, Martin Luther, John Calvin, Thomas Cranmer, John Thomas, John Knox, Roger Williams, Cotton Mather, and John Wesley, as well as most Protestants of the 16th-18th centuries, identified the Papacy with the Antichrist. The Centuriators of Magdeburg, a group of Lutheran scholars in Magdeburg headed by Matthias Flacius, wrote the 12-volume \"Magdeburg Centuries\" to discredit the Papacy and lead other Christians to recognize the Pope as the Antichrist. The fifth round of talks in the Lutheran–Catholic dialogue notes,\n\nDoctrinal works of literature published by the Lutherans, the Reformed churches, the Presbyterians, the Baptists, the Anabaptists, and the Methodists contain references to the Pope as the Antichrist, including the Smalcald Articles, Article 4 (1537), the \"Treatise on the Power and Primacy of the Pope\" (1537), the Westminster Confession, Article 25.6 (1646), and the 1689 Baptist Confession of Faith, Article 26.4. In 1754, John Wesley published his \"Explanatory Notes Upon the New Testament\", which is currently an official Doctrinal Standard of the United Methodist Church. In his notes on the Book of Revelation (chapter 13), he commented: \"The whole succession of Popes from Gregory VII are undoubtedly Antichrists. Yet this hinders not, but that the last Pope in this succession will be more eminently the Antichrist, the Man of Sin, adding to that of his predecessors a peculiar degree of wickedness from the bottomless pit.\"\n\nReferring to the Book of Revelation, Edward Gibbon stated that \"The advantage of turning those mysterious prophecies against the See of Rome, inspired the Protestants with uncommon veneration for so useful an ally.\" Protestants condemned the Catholic policy of mandatory celibacy for priests.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment Era, of the 17th and 18th century, with its strong emphasis on the need for religious toleration, the Inquisition was a favorite target of attack by intellectuals.\n\nInstitutional anti-Catholicism in Britain and Ireland began with the English Reformation under Henry VIII. The Act of Supremacy of 1534 declared the English crown to be 'the only supreme head on earth of the Church in England' in place of the pope. Any act of allegiance to the latter was considered treasonous because the papacy claimed both spiritual and political power over its followers. It was under this act that saints Thomas More and John Fisher were executed and became martyrs to the Catholic faith.\n\nQueen Mary, Henry's daughter, was a devout Catholic and as queen (1553–58) for five years tried to reverse the Reformation. She married the Catholic king of Spain and executed Protestant leaders. Protestants reviled her as \"Bloody Mary\". \nAnti-Catholicism among many of the English was grounded in the fear that the pope sought to reimpose not just religio-spiritual authority over England but also secular power in alliance with arch-enemy France or Spain. In 1570, Pope Pius V sought to depose Elizabeth with the papal bull \"Regnans in Excelsis\", which declared her a heretic and purported to dissolve the duty of all Elizabeth's subjects of their allegiance to her. This rendered Elizabeth's subjects who persisted in their allegiance to the Catholic Church politically suspect, and made the position of her Catholic subjects largely untenable if they tried to maintain both allegiances at once. The Recusancy Acts, making it a legal obligation to worship in the Anglican faith, date from Elizabeth's reign.\n\nAssassination plots in which Catholics were prime movers fueled anti-Catholicism in England. These included the famous Gunpowder Plot, in which Guy Fawkes and other conspirators plotted to blow up the English Parliament while it was in session. The fictitious \"Popish Plot\" involving Titus Oates was a hoax that many Protestants believed to be true, exacerbating Anglican-Catholic relations.\n\nThe Glorious Revolution of 1688–1689 involved the overthrow of King James II, of the Stuart dynasty, who favoured the Catholics, and his replacement by a Dutch Protestant. For decades the Stuarts were supported by France in plots to invade and conquer Britain, and anti-Catholicism persisted.\n\nThe Gordon Riots of 1780 were a violent anti-Catholic protest in London against the Papists Act of 1778, which was intended to reduce official discrimination against British Catholics. Lord George Gordon, head of the Protestant Association warned that the law would enable Catholics in the British Army to become a dangerous threat. The protest evolved into riots and widespread looting. Local magistrates were afraid of reprisals and did not issue the riot act. There was no repression until the Army finally moved in and started shooting, killing hundreds of protesters. The main violence lasted from 2 June to 9 June 1780. Public opinion, especially in middle-class and elite circles, repudiated anti-Catholicism and lower-class violence, and rallied behind Lord North's government. Demands were made for a London police force.\n\nThe long bitter wars with France 1793-1815, saw anti-Catholicism emerge as the glue that held the three kingdoms together. From the upper classes to the lower classes, Protestants were brought together from England, Scotland and Ireland into a profound distrust and distaste for all things French. That enemy nation was depicted as the natural home of misery and oppression because of its inherent inability to shed the darkness of Catholic superstition and clerical manipulation.\n\nCatholics in Ireland got the vote in the 1790s but were politically inert for another three decades. Finally, they were mobilized by Daniel O'Connell into majorities in most of the Irish parliamentary districts. They could only elect, but Catholics could not be seated in parliament. The Catholic emancipation issue became a major crisis. Previously anti-Catholic politicians led by the Duke of Wellington and Robert Peel reversed themselves to prevent massive violence. All Catholics in Britain were \"emancipated\" in the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829. That is they freed from most of the penalties and restrictions they faced. Anti-Catholic attitudes continued, however.\n\nSince World War II anti-Catholic feeling in England has abated somewhat. Ecumenical dialogue between Anglicans and Catholics culminated in the first meeting of an Archbishop of Canterbury with a Pope since the Reformation when Archbishop Geoffrey Fisher visited Rome in 1960. Since then, dialogue has continued through envoys and standing conferences. Meanwhile, both the nonconformist churches such as the Methodists, and the established Church of England, have dramatically declined and membership. Catholic membership in Britain continues to grow, thanks to the immigration of Irish and more recently Polish workers.\n\nConflict and rivalry between Catholicism and Protestantism since the 1920, and especially since the 1960s, has centred in the Troubles in Northern Ireland.\n\nAnti-Catholicism in Britain was long represented by the burning of an effigy of the Catholic conspirator Guy Fawkes at widespread celebrations on Guy Fawkes Night every 5 November. This celebration has, however, largely lost any anti-Catholic connotation. Only faint remains of anti-Catholicism are found today.\n\nAs punishment for the rebellion of 1641, almost all lands owned by Irish Catholics were confiscated and given to Protestant settlers. Under the penal laws, no Irish Catholic could sit in the Parliament of Ireland, even though some 90% of Ireland's population was native Irish Catholic when the first of these bans was introduced in 1691. Catholic / Protestant strife has been blamed for much of \"The Troubles\", the ongoing struggle in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe English Protestant rulers killed many thousands of Irish people (mostly Catholics) who refused to acknowledge the government and sought an alliance with Catholic France, England's great enemy. General Oliver Cromwell, England's military dictator (1653–58) launched a full-scale military attack on Catholics in Ireland, (1649–53). Frances Stewart explains: \"Faced with the prospect of an Irish alliance with Charles II, Cromwell carried out a series of massacres in order to subdue the Irish. Then, once Cromwell had returned to England, the English Commissary, General Henry Ireton adopted a deliberate policy of crop burning and starvation, which was responsible for the majority of an estimated 600,000 deaths out of a total Irish population of 1,400,000.\"\n\nIn addition to the military conflict and occupation, 50,000 women, children, and men were forcibly removed from Ireland and sent to Bermuda and Barbados as indentured servants.\n\nThe Irish potato famine was due in part to Anti-Catholic laws. In the 17th and 18th centuries, Irish Catholics had been prohibited by the penal laws from purchasing or leasing land, from voting, from holding political office, from living in or within of a corporate town, from obtaining education, from entering a profession, and from doing many other things that were necessary for a person to succeed and prosper in society. The laws had largely been reformed by 1793, and in 1829, Irish Catholics could again sit in parliament following the Act of Emancipation.\n\nFears of the Catholic Church were quite strong in the 19th century, especially among Presbyterian and other Protestant Irish immigrants across Canada.\n\nIn 1853, the Gavazzi Riots left 10 dead in Quebec in the wake of Catholic Irish protests against Anti-catholic speeches by ex-monk Alessandro Gavazzi. The most influential newspaper in Canada, \"The Globe\" of Toronto, was edited by George Brown, a Presbyterian immigrant from Ireland who ridiculed and denounced the Catholic Church, Jesuits, priests, nunneries, etc. Irish Protestants remained a political force until the 20th century. Many belonged to the Orange Order, an anti-Catholic organization with chapters across Canada that was most powerful during the late 19th century.\n\nA key leader was Dalton McCarthy (1836–1898), a Protestant who had immigrated from Ireland. In the late 19th century he mobilized the \"Orange\" or Protestant Irish, and fiercely fought against Irish Catholics as well as the French Catholics. He especially crusaded for the abolition of the French language in Manitoba and Ontario schools.\n\nOne of the most controversial issues was public support for Catholic French-language schools. Although the Confederation Agreement of 1867 guaranteed the status of Catholic schools when legalized by provincial governments, disputes erupted in numerous provinces, especially in the Manitoba Schools Question in the 1890s and in Ontario in the 1910s. In Ontario, Regulation 17 was a regulation by the Ontario Ministry of Education that restricted the use of French as a language of instruction to the first two years of schooling. French Canada reacted vehemently and lost, dooming its French-language Catholic schools. This was a central reason for French Canada's distance from the World War I effort, as its young men refused to enlist.\n\nProtestant elements succeeded in blocking the growth of French-language Catholic public schools. However, the Irish Catholics generally supported the English language position advocated by the Protestants.\n\nNewfoundland long experienced social and political tensions between the large Irish Catholic working-class, on the one hand and the Anglican elite on the other. In the 1850s, the Catholic bishop organized his flock and made them stalwarts of the Liberal party. Nasty rhetoric was the prevailing style elections; bloody riots were common during the 1861 election. The Protestants narrowly elected Hugh Hoyles as the Conservative Prime Minister. Hoyles unexpectedly reversed his long record of militant Protestant activism and worked to defuse tensions. He shared patronage and power with the Catholics; all jobs and patronage were split between the various religious bodies on a per capita basis. This 'denominational compromise' was further extended to education when all religious schools were put on the basis which the Catholics had enjoyed since the 1840s. Alone in North America Newfoundland had a state funded system of denominational schools. The compromise worked and politics ceased to be about religion and became concerned with purely political and economic issues.\n\nThe presence of Catholicism in Australia came with the 1788 arrival of the First Fleet of British convict ships at Sydney. The colonial authorities blocked a Catholic clerical presence until 1820, reflecting the legal disabilities of Catholics in Britain. Some of the Irish convicts had been transported to Australia for political crimes or social rebellion and authorities remained suspicious of the minority religion.\n\nCatholic convicts were compelled to attend Church of England services and their children and orphans were raised as Anglicans. The first Catholic priests to arrive came as convicts following the Irish 1798 Rebellion. In 1803, one Fr Dixon was conditionally emancipated and permitted to celebrate Mass, but following the Irish led Castle Hill Rebellion of 1804, Dixon's permission was revoked. Fr Jeremiah Flynn, an Irish Cistercian, was appointed as Prefect Apostolic of New Holland and set out uninvited from Britain for the colony. Watched by authorities, Flynn secretly performed priestly duties before being arrested and deported to London. Reaction to the affair in Britain led to two further priests being allowed to travel to the colony in 1820. The Church of England was disestablished in the Colony of New South Wales by the \"Church Act of 1836\". Drafted by the Catholic attorney-general John Plunkett, the act established legal equality for Anglicans, Catholics and Presbyterians and was later extended to Methodists.\n\nBy the late 19th century approximately a quarter of the population of Australia were Irish Australians. Many were descended from the 40,000 Irish Catholics who were transported as convicts to Australia before 1867. The majority consisted of British and Irish Protestants. The Catholics dominated the labour unions and the Labor Party. The growth of school systems in the late 19th century typically involved religious issues, pitting Protestants against Catholics. The issue of independence for Ireland was long a sore point, until the matter was resolved by the Irish War of Independence.\n\nLimited freedom of belief is protected by Section 116 of the Constitution of Australia, but sectarianism in Australia persisted into the twentieth century, flaring during the First World War, again reflecting Ireland's place within the Empire, and the Catholic minority remained subject to discrimination and suspicion. During the First World War, the Irish gave support for the war effort and comprised 20% of the army in France. However, the labour unions and the Irish in particular, strongly opposed conscription, and in alliance with like-minded farmers, defeated it in national plebiscites in 1916 and 1917. The Anglicans in particular talked of Catholic \"disloyalty\". By the 1920s, Australia had its first Catholic prime minister. In the late twentieth century, the Catholic Church replaced the Anglican Church as the largest Christian Church in Australia, and by the twenty-first century, although Protestants remain a majority. Anti-Catholicism is minimal in modern Australia, although it persists in some quarters.\n\nFollowing the Second World War the Labour movement and the Australian Labor Party came more and more under the influence of the Moscow-controlled Australian Communist Party and this struggle resulted in the Australian Labor Party split of 1955 resulting in the creation of the anti-Communist “Democratic Labor Party” with whom the more Catholic dominated unions were aligned.\nPolitically this was damaging to the ALP who did not regain office at the Federal level for another 17 years.\n\nAccording to New Zealand scholar Michael King, the situation in New Zealand has never been as clear as it was in Australia. Catholics first arrived in New Zealand in 1769. The Church has had \"a continuous presence there from the time of the permanent settlement by Irish Catholics in the 1820s, and the first conversions of Maori in the 1830s.\" However the achievement of the English to gain Maori signatures to a \"Treaty\" in 1840, created a dominant Protestant country, though French Jean Baptiste Pompallier was able to include a clause about guaranteed freedom of religion in the text. Some sectarian violence was evident in New Zealand in the late 19th century and early twentieth.\n\nIn the 21st century, Catholicism expresses itself as a left-wing social movement, which includes Jim Anderton; however, other children of established Catholic families have entered politics, where they tend to join right-wing individualist forces (Jim Bolger, Peter Dunne, Gerry Brownlee). King notes (p. 183) that Bolger (centre-right wing National Party) was the country's fourth Catholic Prime Minister. A previous Catholic Prime Minister was Michael Joseph Savage, who instigated numerous social reforms, evidence that since the 1930s, Catholics have been more at odds within their own ranks, than discriminated against in New Zealand society.\n\nUnification into the German Empire in 1871 saw a country with a Protestant majority and large Catholic minority, speaking German or Polish. Anti-Catholicism was common. The powerful German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck—a devout Lutheran—forged an alliance with secular liberals in 1871–1878 to launch a Kulturkampf (literally, \"culture struggle\") especially in Prussia, the largest state in the new German Empire to destroy the political power of the Catholic Church and the Pope. Catholics were numerous in the South (Bavaria) and west (Rhineland) and fought back. Bismarck intended to end Catholics' loyalty with Rome (ultramontanism) and subordinate all Germans to the power of his state.\n\nPriests and bishops who resisted the Kulturkampf were arrested or removed from their positions. By the height of anti-Catholic legislation, half of the Prussian bishops were in prison or in exile, a quarter of the parishes had no priest, half the monks and nuns had left Prussia, a third of the monasteries and convents were closed, 1800 parish priests were imprisoned or exiled, and thousands of laymen were imprisoned for helping the priests. There were anti-Polish elements in Greater Poland Silesia. The Catholics refused to comply; they strengthened their Centre Party.\n\nPius IX died in 1878 and was replaced by more conciliatory Pope Leo XIII who negotiated away most of the anti-Catholic laws beginning in 1880. Bismark himself broke with the anti-Catholic Liberals and worked with the Catholic Centre Party to fight Socialism. Pope Leo officially declared the end of the Kulturkampf on 23 May 1887.\n\nThe Catholic Church faced repression in Nazi Germany (1933-1945). Hitler despised the Church although he had been brought up in a Catholic home. The long term aim of the Nazis was to de-Christianise Germany and restore Germanic paganism. Richard J. Evans writes that Hitler believed that in the long run National Socialism and religion would not be able to co-exist, and he stressed repeatedly that Nazism was a secular ideology, founded on modern science: \"Science, he declared, would easily destroy the last remaining vestiges of superstition\". Germany could not tolerate the intervention of foreign influences such as the Pope and \"Priests, he said, were 'black bugs', 'abortions in black cassocks'\". Nazi ideology desired the subordination of the church to the state and could not accept an autonomous establishment, whose legitimacy did not spring from the government. From the beginning, the Catholic Church faced general persecution, regimentation and oppression. Aggressive anti-Church radicals like Joseph Goebbels and Martin Bormann saw the conflict with the Churches as a priority concern, and anti-church and anti-clerical sentiments were strong among grassroots party activists. To many Nazis, Catholics were suspected of insufficient patriotism, or even of disloyalty to the Fatherland, and of serving the interests of \"sinister alien forces\".\n\nAdolf Hitler had some regard for the organisational power of Catholicism, but towards its teachings he showed only the sharpest hostility, calling them \"the systematic cultivation of the human failure\": To Hitler, Christianity was a religion fit only for slaves and he detested its ethics. Alan Bullock wrote: \"Its teaching, he declared, was a rebellion against the natural law of selection by struggle and the survival of the fittest\". From political considerations, Hitler was prepared to restrain his anti-clericalism, seeing danger in strengthening the Church by persecution, but intended a show-down after the war. Joseph Goebbels, the Minister for Propaganda, led the Nazi persecution of the Catholic clergy and wrote that there was \"an insoluble opposition between the Christian and a heroic-German world view\". Hitler's chosen deputy, Martin Bormann, was a rigid guardian of Nazi orthodoxy and saw Christianity and Nazism as \"incompatible\", as did the official Nazi philosopher, Alfred Rosenberg, who wrote in \"Myth of the Twentieth Century\" (1930) that Catholics were among the chief enemies of the Germans. In 1934, the \"Sanctum Officium\" put Rosenberg's book on the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" (forbidden books list of the Church) for scorning and rejecting \"all dogmas of the Catholic Church, indeed the very fundamentals of the Christian religion\".\n\nThe Nazis claimed jurisdiction over all collective and social activity, interfering with Catholic schooling, youth groups, workers' clubs and cultural societies. Hitler moved quickly to eliminate Political Catholicism, rounding up members of the Catholic aligned Bavarian People's Party and Catholic Centre Party, which ceased to exist in early July 1933. Vice Chancellor Papen meanwhile, amid continuing molestation of Catholic clergy and organisations, negotiated a Reich concordat with the Holy See, which prohibited clergy from participating in politics. Hitler then proceeded to close all Catholic institutions whose functions weren't strictly religious:\n\nAlmost immediately after agreeing the Concordat, the Nazis promulgated their sterilization law, an offensive policy in the eyes of the Catholic Church and moved to dissolve the Catholic Youth League. Clergy, nuns and lay leaders began to be targeted, leading to thousands of arrests over the ensuing years, often on trumped up charges of currency smuggling or \"immorality\". In Hitler's Night of the Long Knives purge, Erich Klausener, the head of Catholic Action, was assassinated. Adalbert Probst, national director of the Catholic Youth Sports Association, Fritz Gerlich, editor of Munich's Catholic weekly and Edgar Jung, one of the authors of the Marburg speech, were among the other Catholic opposition figures killed in the purge.\n\nBy 1937, the church hierarchy in Germany, which had initially attempted to co-operate with the new government, had become highly disillusioned. In March, Pope Pius XI issued the \"Mit brennender Sorge\" encyclical - accusing the Nazis of violations of the Concordat, and of sowing the \"tares of suspicion, discord, hatred, calumny, of secret and open fundamental hostility to Christ and His Church\". The Pope noted on the horizon the \"threatening storm clouds\" of religious wars of extermination over Germany. The Nazis responded with, an intensification of the Church Struggle. There were mass arrests of clergy and church presses were expropriated. Goebbels renewed the regime's crackdown and propaganda against Catholics. By 1939 all Catholic denominational schools had been disbanded or converted to public facilities. By 1941, all Church press had been banned.\n\nLater Catholic protests included the 22 March 1942 pastoral letter by the German bishops on \"The Struggle against Christianity and the Church\". About 30 per cent of Catholic priests were disciplined by police during the Nazi era. In effort to counter the strength and influence of spiritual resistance, the security services monitored Catholic clergy very closely - instructing that agents monitor every diocese, that the bishops' reports to the Vatican should be obtained and that bishops' activities be discovered and reported. Priests were frequently denounced, arrested, or sent to concentration camps – many to the dedicated clergy barracks at Dachau. Of a total of 2,720 clergy imprisoned at Dachau, some 2,579 (or 94.88%) were Catholic. Nazi policy towards the Church was at its most severe in the territories it annexed to Greater Germany, where the Nazis set about systematically dismantling the Church - arresting its leaders, exiling its clergymen, closing its churches, monasteries and convents. Many clergymen were murdered.\n\nJohn Higham described anti-Catholicism as \"the most luxuriant, tenacious tradition of paranoiac agitation in American history\".\n\nHistorian Arthur Schlesinger Sr. has called Anti-Catholicism \"the deepest-held bias in the history of the American people\".\n\nHistorian Joseph G. Mannard says that wars reduced anti-Catholicism: \"enough Catholics supported the War for Independence to erase many old myths about the inherently treasonable nature of Catholicism...During the Civil War the heavy enlistments of Irish and Germans into the Union Army helped to dispel notions of immigrant and Catholic disloyalty.\"\n\nAmerican anti-Catholicism has its origins in the Protestant Reformation which generated anti-Catholic propaganda for various political and dynastic reasons. Because the Protestant Reformation justified itself as an effort to correct what it perceived were the errors and the excesses of the Catholic Church, it formed strong positions against the Catholic bishops and the Papacy in particular. These positions were brought to New England by English colonists who were predominantly Puritans. They opposed not only the Catholic Church but also the Church of England which, due to its perpetuation of some Catholic doctrines and practices, was deemed insufficiently \"reformed\". Furthermore, English and Scottish identity to a large extent was based on opposition to Catholicism. \"To be English was to be anti-Catholic,\" writes Robert Curran.\n\nBecause many of the British colonists, such as the Puritans and Congregationalists, were fleeing religious persecution by the Church of England, much of early American religious culture exhibited the more extreme anti-Catholic bias of these Protestant denominations. Monsignor John Tracy Ellis wrote that a \"universal anti-Catholic bias was brought to Jamestown in 1607 and vigorously cultivated in all the thirteen colonies from Massachusetts to Georgia\". Colonial charters and laws often contained specific proscriptions against Catholics. For example, the second Massachusetts charter of October 7, 1691 decreed \"that forever hereafter there shall be liberty of conscience allowed in the worship of God to all Christians, except Papists, inhabiting, or which shall inhabit or be resident within, such Province or Territory\". Historians have identified only one Catholic living in colonial Boston--Ann Glover. She was hanged as a witch in 1688, shortly before the much more famous witchcraft trials in nearby Salem.\nMonsignor Ellis noted that a common hatred of the Catholic Church could unite Anglican clerics and Puritan ministers despite their differences and conflicts. One of the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament that helped fuel the American Revolution was the Quebec Act of 1774, which granted freedom of worship to Roman Catholics in Canada.\n\nThe Patriot reliance on Catholic France for military, financial and diplomatic aid led to a sharp drop in anti-Catholic rhetoric. Indeed, the king replaced the pope as the demon patriots had to fight against. Anti-Catholicism remained strong among Loyalists, some of whom went to Canada after the war while most remained in the new nation. By the 1780s, Catholics were extended legal toleration in all of the New England states that previously had been so hostile. \"In the midst of war and crisis, New Englanders gave up not only their allegiance to Britain but one of their most dearly held prejudices.\"\n\nGeorge Washington was a vigorous promoter of tolerance for all religious denominations as commander of the army (1775-1783) where he suppressed anti-Catholic celebrations in the Army and appealed to French Catholics in Canada to join the American Revolution; a few hundred did join. Likewise he guaranteed a high degree of freedom of religion as president (1789-1797), when he often attended services of different denominations. The military alliance with Catholic France in 1778 changed attitudes radically in Boston. Local leaders enthusiastically welcomed French naval and military officers, realizing the alliance was critical to winning independence. The Catholic chaplain of the French army reported in 1781 that he was continually receiving \"new civilities\" from the best families in Boston; he also noted that \"the people in general retain their own prejudices.\" By 1790, about 500 Catholics in Boston formed the first Catholic Church there.\n\nFear of the pope agitated some of America's Founding Fathers. For example, in 1788, John Jay urged the New York Legislature to prohibit Catholics from holding office. The legislature refused, but did pass a law designed to reach the same goal by requiring all office-holders to renounce foreign authorities \"in all matters ecclesiastical as well as civil\". Thomas Jefferson, looking at the Catholic Church in France, wrote, \"History, I believe, furnishes no example of a priest-ridden people maintaining a free civil government\", and \"In every country and in every age, the priest has been hostile to liberty. He is always in alliance with the despot, abetting his abuses in return for protection to his own.\"\n\nAnti-Catholic fears reached a peak in the nineteenth century when the Protestant population became alarmed by the influx of Catholic immigrants. Some claimed that the Catholic Church was the Whore of Babylon in the Book of Revelation. The resulting \"nativist\" movement, which achieved prominence in the 1840s, was whipped into a frenzy of anti-Catholicism that led to mob violence, most notably the Philadelphia Nativist Riot of 1844. Historian David Montgomery argues that the Irish Catholic Democrats in Philadelphia had successfully appealed to the upper-class Whig leadership. The Whigs wanted to split the Democratic coalition, so they approved Bishop Kendrick's request that Catholic children be allowed to use their own Bible. That approval outraged the evangelical Protestant leadership, which rallied its support in Philadelphia and nationwide. Montgomery states:\n\nThe nativist movement found expression in a national political movement called the \"American\" or Know-Nothing Party of 1854-56. It had considerable success in local and state elections in 1854-55 by emphasizing nativism and warning against Catholics and immigrants. It nominated former president Millard Fillmore as its presidential candidate in the 1856 election. However, Fillmore was not anti-Catholic or nativist; his campaign concentrated almost entirely on national unity. Historian Tyler Anbinder says, \"The American party had dropped nativism from its agenda.\" Fillmore won 22% of the national popular vote.\n\nIn the Orange Riots in New York City in 1871 and 1872, Irish Catholics violently attacked Irish Protestants, who carried orange banners.\n\nAnti-Catholicism among American Jews further intensified in the 1850s during the international controversy over the Edgardo Mortara case, when a baptized Jewish boy in the Papal States was removed from his family and refused to return to them.\n\nAfter 1875 many states passed constitutional provisions, called \"Blaine Amendments\", forbidding tax money be used to fund parochial schools. In 2002, the United States Supreme Court partially vitiated these amendments, when they ruled that vouchers were constitutional if tax dollars followed a child to a school even if the school were religious.\n\nAnti-Catholicism played a major role in the defeat of Al Smith, the Democratic nominee for President in 1928. Smith did very well in Catholic precincts, but poorly in the South, and among Lutherans of the North. His candidacy was also hampered by his close ties with the notorious Tammany Hall political machine in New York City and his strong opposition to prohibition. His cause was in any case uphill, facing a popular Republican leadership in a year of peace and unprecedented prosperity.\n\nThe adoption of the 18th Amendment in 1919, a culmination of a half-century of anti-liquor agitation, also fueled anti-Catholic sentiment. Prohibition enjoyed strong support among dry pietistic Protestants, and equally strong opposition by wet Catholics, Episcopalians, and German Lutherans. The drys focused their distrust on the Catholics and they gave little popular support to the enforcement of prohibition laws, and when the Great Depression began in 1929 there was increasing sentiment that the government needed the tax revenue that repeal of Prohibition would bring.\n\nOver 10 million Protestant soldiers who served in World War II came into close contact with Catholic soldiers; they got along well and, after the war, they played the central role in spreading high new levels of ethnic and religious tolerance for Catholics among other white Americans. Although anti-Catholic sentiment in the U.S. declined in the 1960s after John F. Kennedy became the first Catholic U.S. president, traces persist in both the media and popular culture.\n\nAnti-clericalism is a historical movement that opposes religious (generally Catholic) institutional power and influence in all aspects of public and political life, and the involvement of religion in the everyday life of the citizen. It suggests a more active and partisan role than mere laïcité. The goal of anticlericalism is sometimes to reduce religion to a purely private belief-system with no public profile or influence. However, many times it has included outright suppression of all aspects of faith.\n\nAnticlericalism has at times been violent, leading to murders and the desecration, destruction and seizure of church property. Anticlericalism in one form or another has existed throughout most of Christian history, and it is considered to be one of the major popular forces underlying the 16th century reformation. Some of the philosophers of the Enlightenment, including Voltaire, continually attacked the Catholic Church, both its leadership and its priests, claiming that many of its clergy were morally corrupt. These assaults in part led to the suppression of the Jesuits, and played a major part in the wholesale attacks on the very existence of the Church during the French Revolution in the Reign of Terror and the program of dechristianization. Similar attacks on the Church occurred in Mexico and Portugal since their 1910 revolutions and in Spain during the twentieth century.\n\nBrazil has the largest number of Catholics in the world, and as such it has not experienced any large anti-Catholic movements.\n\nDuring the Nineteenth Century, the Religious Question was the name given to the crisis when Freemasons in the Brazilian government imprisoned two Catholic bishops for enforcing the Church's prohibition against Freemasonry.\n\nEven during times in which the Church was experiencing intense conservatism, such as the era of the Brazilian military dictatorship, anti-Catholicism was not advocated by the left-wing movements (instead, Liberation theology gained force). However, with the growing number of Protestants (especially Neo-Pentecostals) in the country, anti-Catholicism has gained strength. A pivotal moment during the rise of anti-Catholicism was the kicking of the saint episode in 1995. However, owing to the protests of the Catholic majority, the perpetrator was transferred to South Africa for the duration of the controversy.\n\nAnti-Catholic and anti-clerical sentiments, some spurred by an anti-clerical conspiracy theory which was circulating in Colombia during the mid-twentieth century led to persecution of Catholics and killings, most specifically of the clergy, during the events known as La Violencia.\n\nDuring the French Revolution (1789–95) clergy and religious were persecuted and church property was destroyed and confiscated by the new government as part of a process of \"Dechristianization\", the aim of which was the destruction of Catholic practices and the destruction of the very faith itself, culminating in the imposition of the atheistic Cult of Reason and then the deistic Cult of the Supreme Being. Persecution led Catholics in the west of France to engage in a counterrevolution, the War in the Vendée, and when the state was victorious it killed tens of thousands. A few historians have called it genocide. Most historians say it was a brutal repression of political enemies. The French invasions of Italy (1796–99) included an assault on Rome and the exile of Pope Pius VI in 1798.\n\nRelations improved in 1802 when Napoleon came to terms with the Pope in the Concordat of 1801. It allowed the Church to operate but did not give back the lands; it proved satisfactory for a century. By 1815 the Papacy supported the growing alliance against Napoleon, and was re-instated as the state church during the conservative Bourbon Restoration of 1815-30. The brief French Revolution of 1848 again opposed the Church, but the Second French Empire (1851–71) gave it full support. The history of 1789–1871 had established two camps—the left against the Church and the right supporting it—that largely continued until the Vatican II process in 1962–65.\n\nFrance's Third Republic (1871–1940) was cemented by anti-clericalism, the desire to secularise the State and social life, faithful to the French Revolution. This was the position of the radicals and socialists. in 1902 Émile Combes became Minister of the Interior, and the main energy of the government was devoted to an anti-clerical agenda. The parties of the Left, Socialists and Radicals, united upon this question in the \"Bloc republicain\", supported Combes in his application of the law of 1901 on the religious associations, and voted the new bill on the congregations (1904). By 1904, through his efforts, nearly 10,000 religious schools had been closed and thousands of priests and nuns left France rather than be persecuted. Under his guidance parliament moved toward the 1905 French law on the separation of Church and State, which ended the Napoleonic arrangement of 1801.\n\nIn the Affaire Des Fiches, in France in 1904–1905, it was discovered that the militantly anticlerical War Minister under Combes, General Louis André, was determining promotions based on the French Masonic Grand Orient's huge card index on public officials, detailing which were Catholic and who attended Mass, with the goal of preventing their promotions. Exposure almost caused the government to fall; instead Combes retired.\n\nIn the Napoleonic era, anti-clericalism was a powerful political force. From 1860 through 1870, the new Italian government, under the House of Savoy, outlawed all religious orders, both male and female, including the Franciscans, the Dominicans and the Jesuits, closed down their monasteries and confiscated their property, and imprisoned or banished bishops who opposed this (see Kulturkampf). Italy took over Rome in 1870 when it lost its French protection; the Pope declared himself a prisoner in the Vatican. Relations were finally normalized in 1929 with the Lateran Treaty.\n\nFollowing the Mexican Revolution of 1860, Liberal President Benito Juárez issued a decree nationalizing church property, separating church and state, and suppressing religious orders.\n\nFollowing the revolution of 1910, the new Mexican Constitution of 1917 contained further anti-clerical provisions. Article 3 called for secular education in the schools and prohibited the Church from engaging in primary education; Article 5 outlawed monastic orders; Article 24 forbade public worship outside the confines of churches; and Article 27 placed restrictions on the right of religious organizations to hold property. Article 130 deprived clergy members of basic political rights.\n\nMexican President Plutarco Elías Calles's enforcement of previous anti-Catholic legislation denying priests' rights, enacted as the Calles Law, prompted the Mexican Episcopate to suspend all Catholic worship in Mexico from August 1, 1926 and sparked the bloody Cristero War of 1926–1929 in which some 50,000 peasants took up arms against the government. Their slogan was \"¡Viva Cristo Rey!\" (Long live Christ the King!).\n\nThe effects of the war on the Church were profound. Between 1926 and 1934 at least 40 priests were killed. Where there were 4,500 priests serving the people before the rebellion, in 1934 there were only 334 priests licensed by the government to serve fifteen million people, the rest having been eliminated by emigration, expulsion and assassination. It appears that ten states were left without any priests. Other sources indicate that the persecution was such that, by 1935, 17 states were left with no priests at all.\n\nSome of the Catholic casualties of this struggle are known as the Saints of the Cristero War. Events relating to this were famously portrayed in the novel The Power and the Glory by Graham Greene.\n\n\"For the situation in Russian Poland, see Anticatholicism in Russian Empire\"\n\nCatholicism in Poland, the religion of the vast majority of the population, was severely persecuted during World War II, following the Nazi invasion of the country and its subsequent annexation into Germany. Over 3 million Catholics of Polish descent were murdered during the Invasion of Poland, including 3 bishops, 52 priests, 26 monks, 3 seminarians, 8 nuns and 9 lay people, later beatified in 1999 by Pope John Paul II as the 108 Martyrs of World War Two.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church was even more violently suppressed in Reichsgau Wartheland and the General Government. Churches were closed, and clergy were deported, imprisoned, or killed, among them was Maximilian Kolbe, a Pole of German descent. Between 1939 and 1945, 2,935 members of the Polish clergy (18%) were killed in concentration camps. In the city of Chełmno, for example, 48% of the Catholic clergy were killed.\n\nCatholicism continued to be persecuted under the Communist regime from the 1950s. Contemporary Stalinist ideology claimed that the Church and religion in general were about to disintegrate. Initially, Archbishop Wyszyński entered into an agreement with the Communist authorities, which was signed on 14 February 1950 by the Polish episcopate and the government. The Agreement regulated the matters of the Church in Poland. However, in May of that year, the Sejm breached the Agreement by passing a law for the confiscation of Church property.\n\nOn 12 January 1953, Wyszyński was elevated to the rank of cardinal by Pius XII as another wave of persecution began in Poland. When the bishops voiced their opposition to state interference in ecclesiastical appointments, mass trials and the internment of priests began—the cardinal being one of its victims. On 25 September 1953 he was imprisoned at Grudziądz, and later placed under house arrest in monasteries in Prudnik near Opole and in Komańcza Monastery in the Bieszczady Mountains. He was released on 26 October 1956.\n\nPope John Paul II, who was born in Poland as Karol Wojtyla, often cited the persecution of Polish Catholics in his stance against Communism.\n\nAnti-clericalism in Spain at the start of the Spanish Civil War resulted in the killing of almost 7,000 clergy, the destruction of hundreds of churches and the persecution of lay people in Spain's Red Terror. Hundreds of Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War have been beatified and hundreds more were beatified in October 2007.\n\nThe Jesuits (Societas Jesu) were banned from all activities in either clerical or pedagogical functions by Article 51 of the Swiss constitution in 1848. The reason for the ban was the perceived threat to the stability of the state resulting from Jesuit advocacy of traditional Catholicism; it followed the Roman Catholic cantons forming an unconstitutional \"separate alliance\" leading to civil war. In June 1973, 54.9% of Swiss voters approved removing the ban on the Jesuits (as well as Article 52 which banned monasteries and convents from Switzerland) (See \"Kulturkampf\" and \"Religion in Switzerland\")\n\nDuring Russian rule, Catholics, primarily Poles and Lithuanians, suffered great persecution not only because of their ethnic-national background, but also for religious reasons. Especially after the uprisings of 1831 and 1863, and within the process of Russification (understanding that there is a strong link between religion and nationality), the tsarist authorities were anxious to promote the conversion of these peoples to the official faith, intervening in public education in those regions (an Orthodox religious education was compulsory ) and censoring the actions of the Catholic Church. In particular, attention was focussed on the public actions of the Church, such as masses or funerals, because they could serve as the focus of protests against the occupation. Many priests were imprisoned or deported because of their activities in defense of their religion and ethnicity. In the late nineteenth century, however, there was a progressive relaxation of the control of Catholic institutions by the Russian authorities.\n\nFrom the 19th Century onwards, anti-Catholic sentiment amongst Serbian nationalists has been synonymous with Anti-Croat sentiment, due to the fact that the plurality of Croats identify with the Roman Catholic church. Beginning with the nation-building process in the mid-19th century, first Croatian–Serbian tension appeared. Serbian minister Ilija Garašanin's \"Načertanije\" (1844) claimed lands that were inhabited by Bulgarians, Macedonians, Albanians, Montenegrins, Bosnians, Hungarians and Croats were part of Serbia. Garašanin's plan also includes methods of spreading Serbian influence in the claimed lands. He proposed ways to influence Croats, who Garašanin regarded as \"Serbs of Catholic faith\". This plan considered surrounding peoples to be devoid of national consciousness. Vuk Karadžić partly denied the existence of Croatians and Croatian language, counting them as \"Catholic Serbs\" except those who speak Chakavian dialect. Croatia was at the time a kingdom in Habsburg monarchy, with Dalmatia and Istria being separate Habsburg Crown lands. Ante Starčević, head of the Croatian Party of Rights, proved that Croats and Croatia do exist and reciprocated, denying Serbia. After Austro-Hungary occupied Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878 and Serbia gained its independence from Ottoman Empire, Croatian and Serbian relations deteriorated as both sides had pretensions on Bosnia and Herzegovina. In 1902 major anti-Serb riots in Croatia were caused by reprinted article written by Serb Nikola Stojanović that was published in the publication of the Serbian Independent Party from Zagreb titled \"Do istrage vaše ili naše\" (\"Till the Annihilation, yours or ours\") in which denying of the existence of Croat nation as well as forecasting the result of the \"inevitable\" Serbian-Croatian conflict occurred.\nDuring World War II in Yugoslavia, Serbian Chetnik ideologists contended that ethnic cleansing of certain areas was necessary to consolidate an ethnically-\"pure\" Serb territory as a basis of post-war Yugoslavia. The ethnic cleansing was expected to be conducted \"at a convenient moment.\" One of a number of documents that attest to this plan is Mihailović's written memorandum to Pavle Đurišić of 20 December 1941: \n\nWritten evidence by Chetnik commanders indicates that terrorism against the non-Serb population was intended to establish an ethnically-pure Greater Serbia in the historical territory of other ethnic groups (most notably Croatian and Muslim, but also Bulgarian, Romanian, Hungarian, Macedonian and Montenegrin). Mihailović went further than Moljević and requested over 90 percent of the NDH's territory, where more than 2,500,000 Catholics and over 800,000 Muslims lived (70 percent of the total population, with Orthodox Serbs the remaining 30 percent). Chetnik commander Milan Šantić said in Trebinje in July 1942, \"The Serb lands must be cleansed from Catholics and Muslims. They will be inhabited only by the Serbs. Cleansing will be carried out thoroughly, and we will suppress and destroy them all without exception and without pity, which will be the starting point for our liberation.\"\n\nDuring the Yugoslav Wars in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ICTY determined that ethnic Croats were persecuted on political, racial and religious grounds, as part of a general campaign of killings and forced-removals of Croat civilians. The religious element of Serbian persecution against Catholic Croats was the deliberate destruction of religious buildings and monuments, including churches, chapels and even cemeteries. It is estimated that some 400 Catholic churches were destroyed or severely damaged by Serb forces during the Croatian War of Independence, while another 706 Catholic religious buildings and monuments were destroyed or damaged by Serb forces during the Bosnian War. \n\nSerbian nationalists, such as the Serbian Radical Party leader, Vojislav Šešelj, have also used anti-Catholic sentiment as a means of expressing anti-Croat sentiment. In 2007, Šešelj published the 'The Roman Catholic Criminal Project of the Artificial Croatian Nation', where he states amongst many other things, that:\n\n\"Today’s “Croatian nation” is the artificial creation of the Roman Catholic Church, envisioned beforehand as an instrument in a criminal project based on the aspiration to destroy the Serbian nation through Uniatism, conversion to Catholicism or complete physical liquidation, so that it would no longer represent an obstacle to the further expansion of proselytism to the East European lands\".\n\nIn the separatist region known as the Donetsk People's Republic, the government has declared that the Russian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate is the state religion, and Protestant churches have been occupied by paramilitaries. Jehovah's Witnesses have lost their property, and their Kingdom Halls have been occupied by rebels in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Roman Catholic, Greek Catholic, Ukrainian Orthodox, and Protestant clergy have been kidnapped by groups such as the Russian Orthodox Army, and they have also been accused of opposing Russian Orthodox values. Human Rights Watch says that the bodies of several members of the Church of the Transfiguration were found in a mass grave in 2014.\n\nOn 3 June 2001 nine people were killed by a bomb explosion at a Roman Catholic church in the Gopalganj District.\n\nThe Daoguang Emperor modified existing law making spreading Catholicism punishable by death.\nDuring the Boxer Rebellion, Catholic missionaries and their families were murdered by Boxer rebels. During the 1905 Tibetan Rebellion, Tibetan rebels murdered Catholics and Tibetan converts.\n\nSince the founding of the People's Republic of China, all religions including Catholicism only operate under state control. However, there are Catholics who do not accept state rule over the Church and worship clandestinely. There has been some rapprochement between the Chinese government and the Vatican.\n\nOn February 5, 1597 a group of twenty-six Catholics were killed on the orders of Toyotomi Hideyoshi. \nDuring the Tokugawa Shogunate, Japanese Catholics were suppressed leading to an armed rebellion during the 1630s. After the rebellion was defeated, Catholicism was furthered suppressed and many went underground. Catholicism was not openly restored to Japan until the 1850s.\n\n\"See Roman Catholicism in North Korea\"\n\nA Buddhist-influenced government took over 600 parish schools in 1960 without compensation and secularized them. Attempts were made by future governments to restore some autonomy.\n\nThe term \"anti-Catholic Catholic\" has come to be applied to Catholics who are perceived to view the Catholic Church with animosity. The term is often used by traditionalist or conservative Catholics to describe modernist or liberal Catholics, especially those who seek to reform doctrine, make secularist critiques of the Catholic Church, or place secular principles above Church teachings. Those who take issue with Catholic theology of sexuality are especially prone to this label.\n\nPrime Minister Pombal of Portugal was aggressively hostile to the Jesuit order, because it reported to an Italian power—the pope—And try to operate independently of the government. He organized a full-scale war on the Jesuits both in Portugal, and in much of Catholic Europe as well. The Jesuit order was suppressed in the Portuguese Empire (1759), France (1764), the Two Sicilies, Malta, Parma, the Spanish Empire (1767) and Austria and Hungary (1782). The Pope himself suppressed the order everywhere in 1773, but it survived in Russia and Prussia. The suppression was a major blow to Catholic education across Europe, with nearly a 1000 secondary schools and seminaries shut down, their lands, building and endowments were confiscated; their teachers scattered. Although Jesuit education had become old fashioned in Poland and other areas, it was the main educational support network for Catholic intellectuals, senior clergy and prominent families. Governments tried in vain to replace all those schools, but there were far too few non-clerical teachers who were suitable.\n\nThe Jesuit order was restored by the pope in 1814, and flourished in terms of rebuilding schools and educational institutions, but it never regained its an enormous power in the political realm. The suppression of the Jesuits \"was an unmitigated disaster for Catholicism.\" The political weakness of the once powerful institution was on public display for ridicule and more bullying. The Church lost its best educational system, its best edgy missionary system, in its most innovative thinkers. Intellectually, it would take two centuries for the church to fully recover.\n\nAnti-Catholic stereotypes are a long-standing feature of English literature, popular fiction, and even pornography. Gothic fiction is particularly rich in this regard. Lustful priests, cruel abbesses, immured nuns, and sadistic inquisitors appear in such works as \"The Italian\" by Ann Radcliffe, \"The Monk\" by Matthew Lewis, \"Melmoth the Wanderer\" by Charles Maturin and \"The Pit and the Pendulum\" by Edgar Allan Poe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8192303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8192303", "title": "Auditory learning", "text": "Auditory learning\n\nAuditory learning is a learning style in which a person learns through listening. An auditory learner depends on listening and speaking as a main way of learning. Auditory learners must be able to hear what is being said in order to understand and may have difficulty with instructions that are drawn but if the writing is in a logical order it can be easier to understand. They also use their listening and repeating skills to sort through the information that is sent to them. They are good listeners when people speak.\n\nThe Fleming VAK/VARK model, one of the most common and widely used categorizations of the various types of learning styles, categorized the various types of learning styles as follows: visual learners, auditory learners, reading/writing-preference learners, and kinesthetic learners (also known as \"tactile learners\").\n\nAuditory learners may have a knack for ascertaining the true meaning of someone's words by listening to audible signals like changes in tone. When memorizing a phone number, an auditory learner will say it out loud and then remember how it sounded to recall it.\n\nAuditory learners are good at writing responses to lectures they’ve heard. They’re also good at oral exams, effectively by listening to information delivered orally, in lectures, speeches, and oral sessions.\n\nProponents claim that when an auditory/verbal learner reads, it is almost impossible for the learner to comprehend anything without sound in the background. In these situations, listening to music or having different sounds in the background (TV, people talking, music, etc.) will help learners work better.\n\nAuditory learners are good at storytelling. They solve problems by talking them through. Speech patterns include phrases “I hear you; That clicks; It's ringing a bell”, and other sound or voice-oriented information. These learners will move their lips or talk to themselves to help accomplish tasks.\n\nProponents say that teachers should use these techniques to instruct auditory learners: verbal direction, group discussions, verbal reinforcement, group activities, reading aloud, and putting information into a rhythmic pattern such as a rap, poem, or song.\n\nAuditory learners make up about 30% of the population.\n\nAlthough learning styles have \"enormous popularity\", and both children and adults express personal preferences, there is no evidence that identifying a student's learning style produces better outcomes, and there is significant evidence that the widely touted \"meshing hypothesis\" (that a student will learn best if taught in a method deemed appropriate for the student's learning style) is invalid. Well-designed studies \"flatly contradict the popular meshing hypothesis\". Rather than targeting instruction to the \"right\" learning style, students appear to benefit most from mixed modality presentations, for instance using both auditory and visual techniques for all students.\n\n"}
{"id": "999453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=999453", "title": "Bacalhau", "text": "Bacalhau\n\nBacalhau () is the Portuguese word for cod and—in a culinary context—dried and salted cod. Fresh (unsalted) cod is referred to as \"bacalhau fresco\" (fresh cod).\n\n\"Bacalhau\" dishes are common in Portugal, and also in former Portuguese colonies like Cape Verde, Angola, Macau, Brazil, and Goa. There are said to be over 1000 recipes in Portugal alone and it can be considered the iconic ingredient of Portuguese cuisine (but curiously the only fish that is not consumed fresh in this fish-loving nation). It is often cooked on social occasions and is the traditional Christmas Eve dinner in some parts of Portugal.\n\nSimilar recipes can be found across Europe. It is also found in the cuisines of other territories and regions like Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico. In Norway, where most of the salted and dried cod is ostensibly produced, \"bacalao\" commonly refers to a specific dish prepared with salted and dried cod, potatoes, onions, tomatoes and olives. In recent years, there has also been increasing interest in the wider range of Portuguese dishes based on dried and salted cod, however.\n\nSalted, dried cod ostensibly comes from Norway (\"bacalhau da Noruega\"), Iceland (\"bacalhau da Islândia\") or Newfoundland (\"bacalhau da Terra Nova\"). It used to be very affordable, but with the collapse of the cod stocks and dismantling of Portuguese \"bacalhoeiro\" fleet, it became more expensive, especially near Easter and Christmas time, since it is a part of many traditional dishes of the holiday season.\n\nThere are numerous \"bacalhau\" recipe variations, depending on region and tradition.In Portugal, it is said there are more than 365 ways to cook \"bacalhau\", one for every day of the year; others say there are 1,001 ways. Whatever the exact number, bacalhau is a ubiquitous ingredient in Portuguese cuisine.\n\nBacalhau is often served with potatoes. Green (\"Vinho Verde\") or mature wines (Alentejo Wine, Dão Wine, or Douro Wine) are served alongside.\n\nSome Bacalhau dishes:\n\nSalt cod has been produced for at least 500 years, since the time of the European discoveries of the New World. Before refrigeration, there was a need to preserve the cod; drying and salting are ancient techniques to preserve nutrients and the process makes the cod tastier. More importantly, fish low in oils and fats allow for the drying and preservation process to occur: oils and fats prevent the salt water from preserving the fish. Cod fish have very low levels of oils, and most is located in the guts.\n\nPortuguese, Norman, Breton, and English fisherman were the first to adopt the salt-based curing technique from Basque fishermen in Newfoundland near the cod-rich Grand Banks by the late 1400s. By the 1700s, salted cod had become a staple food for ordinary Portuguese people and by upper levels of Portuguese society. With the advancements in freezing and transportation in the 1900s, salted cod from North America declined and Iceland and Norway became the major supplier of the salted fish to Portuguese markets. During this time \"bacalhau\" was a cheap source of protein and frequently consumed. Thus, ' became a staple of the Portuguese cuisine, nicknamed ' (loyal friend). In fact, there is no word in Portuguese for fresh cod; it is instead called \"fresh salt cod\".\n\nThis dish is also popular in Portugal and other Roman Catholic countries because of the church. For example, the Church forbade the eating of meat on many days (Fridays, Lent, and other festivals), and so \" dishes were eaten instead. Bacalhau is also popular in Sfax where this dish is eaten in the first day of Eid ul-Fitr with chermoula.\n\nIn Portugal, ' is often sold as a generic product with no brand information. Customers are free to touch, smell, and otherwise personally inspect the fish, which is very different to how fresh seafood is often sold. Stores can carry a large variety of ' differing in color, size, smell, taste, and dryness. Such variation has led Portugal to define requirements as to what products can carry the label \"Bacalhau de Cura Tradicional Portuguesa\"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4380505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4380505", "title": "Bible Belt (Netherlands)", "text": "Bible Belt (Netherlands)\n\nThe Bible Belt () is a strip of land in the Netherlands with the highest concentration of conservative orthodox Calvinist Protestants in the country. It was named after the Bible Belt of the United States.\n\nThe Bible Belt stretches from Zeeland, through the West-Betuwe and Veluwe, to the northern parts of the province Overijssel. However, some communities with strong conservative Protestant leanings are situated outside the belt. For example, Urk, considered by many as one of the most traditional communities in the country, and some municipalities of Friesland (Dantumadiel for example) have characteristics typical of the Bible Belt. Other places in this area are Yerseke, Tholen, Ouddorp, Opheusden, Kesteren, Barneveld, Nunspeet, Elspeet and Staphorst. The three biggest cities regarded to be part of the Bible Belt are Ede, Veenendaal and Kampen. Outside the Bible Belt there are other sizable communities of Calvinist Protestants, such as in Rijssen.\n\nWhen Flanders and North Brabant were reconquered by the Spanish army during the Eighty Years' War, their Protestant inhabitants were required to either convert to Catholicism or leave. Many emigrated north of the border, particularly during the Twelve Years' Truce of 1609–21. Many of them later became staunch supporters of the pietist movement known as the \"nadere reformatie\" (further reformation). \nFollowing the 1832 schism, known as the \"Afscheiding\" (\"Secession\"), and the 1886 schism, \"Doleantie\" (\"Sorrow\"), which was led by Abraham Kuyper, they left the mainstream Dutch Reformed Church and founded their own, more conservative congregations, the most notable of which are the Christian Reformed Churches and the Reformed Congregations (\"Gereformeerde Gemeenten\"), known colloquially as \"zwarte-kousenkerken\" (\"black stockings churches\").\n\nThe Bible Belt differs in many aspects (amongst them a regular Sunday church attendance – often twice on a Sunday) from the traditionally Catholic provinces of North Brabant and Limburg to the south (where Sunday church attendance averages between 2% to 3% of the population) and northern parts of the Netherlands, which are traditionally mainline Protestant (dominated by the Protestant Church in the Netherlands) and increasingly secular, with similarly low church attendance figures.\n\nThe church plays a central role in the life of Bible Belt communities and they typically oppose the liberal practices of Dutch society, such as euthanasia, gay rights, abortion, prostitution, pornography, etc. In Bible Belt communities, strong religious tone in public life is accompanied by conservative outlook, preference for large families (the region has relatively high fertility rates), and an emphasis on traditional values. An aspect of Bible Belt society that has drawn the attention of the Dutch general public in recent years (when concerns of a measles epidemic emerged) is the suspicion of parents towards state-run vaccination programmes.\n\nThe Bible Belt provides a base of support for Christian Democratic parties, especially the two (small) Christian parties; SGP and ChristenUnie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14322719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14322719", "title": "Bushi language", "text": "Bushi language\n\nBushi (\"Shibushi\" or \"Kibushi\") is a dialect of Malagasy spoken in the French-ruled Comorian island of Mayotte. Malagasy dialects most closely related to Bushi are spoken in northwestern Madagascar in the area of Antsiranana (Diego-Suarez) and Mahajanga (Majunga), which is also the closest point in Madagascar to Mayotte.\n\nBushi is known as Kibushi on Mayotte and is spoken by 40% of the islands' people (1980). It is spoken alongside the Maore dialect (\"Shimaore\") of Comorian, a Bantu language. Historically, Kibushi and Shimaore have been spoken in certain villages but Shimaore tends to be the \"de facto\" indigenous lingua franca in everyday life, because of the larger Shimaore-speaking population. Only Shimaore is represented on the local television news program by Réseau Outre-Mer 1re. Dialects of Bushi in Mayotte (known as \"Shibushi\" in Shimaore) include Kiantalaotse and Kibushi-Kimaore (\"Shibushi-Shimaore\" in Shimaore).\n\nBushi is spoken along the west coast of the main island (Grande-Terre) including the villages of Bambo Est, M'Boueni, Passy-Kéli, Mronabeja, Kani-Kéli, Chirongui, Poroani, Ouangani, Chiconi, Sohoa, M'Tsangamouji, Acoua, Mtsangadoua, Handrema.\n\nIn Mayotte, Bushi was traditionally written with an informal French-based Latin orthography. On 22 February 2006, the \"Conseil de la Culture, de l'Education et de l'Environnement de Mayotte\" introduced an official alphabet that utilizes the basic Latin alphabet without c, j, q, and x and uses three extra letters: ɓ, ɗ, and n̈. Here, the letters used in the orthography are bolded, their IPA counterparts in brackets.\n\nBushi has 5 vowels.\nBushi has 20 consonants.\n"}
{"id": "33903003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33903003", "title": "CC cream", "text": "CC cream\n\nCC cream is a marketing term coined in the wake of the marketing term Blemish Balm cream or Beauty Balm. \"CC cream\" is used by some brands to mean Color Control cream, or Color Correcting cream, and some brands claim to reduce the appearance of skin redness or sallowness or to improve uneven skin tone. BB creams and CC creams are both tinted moisturizers containing sun protection. There is no scientific definition for either term, nor is there quantifiable basis for difference between BB creams and CC creams: differences between the two vary from brand to brand. BB (Blemish Balm) cream was originally formulated in Germany and has in recent years gained popularity in Asia, especially South Korea, and is also gaining popularity in Europe and North America.\n\nCoverage can vary greatly among the different brands, and differences are more often than not minimal when compared to BB creams. Some users apply them as primers rather than as a replacement for foundation. The first tinted moisturizer marketed as a CC cream appeared in 2010, the product of a Singapore-based brand Rachel K. Most cosmetics companies offer both BB- and CC-creams without any particular market leader in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "12110030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12110030", "title": "Cawston Ostrich Farm", "text": "Cawston Ostrich Farm\n\nCawston Ostrich Farm, located in South Pasadena, California, United States, was opened in 1886 by Edwin Cawston. It was America's first ostrich farm and was located in the Arroyo Seco Valley just three miles (5 km) north of downtown Los Angeles and occupied nine acres.\n\nIn 1885 Edwin Cawston chartered a ship to take fifty of some of the best obtainable ostriches in the world from South Africa to Galveston, Texas. From there, the ostriches endured a treacherous train journey to South Pasadena, California. Out of the original fifty, only eighteen survived. Cawston bounced back from the loss of over half of his stock and the Ostrich Farm eventually boasted over 100 ostriches from the original batch.\n\nThe Cawston Ostrich Farm became a premier tourist attraction for many years. Its proximity to the Pasadena and Los Angeles Electric Railway's trolley line that came through from downtown Los Angeles brought many tourists to visit the farm through the earlier part of the 20th century. Guests were able to ride on the backs of ostriches, be taken for ostrich drawn carriage rides and buy ostrich feathered hats, boas, capes and fans at the Ostrich Farm store that was connected to the factory. The ostrich farm feather products were shipped and sold throughout the world.\n\nMost of the original brick structure of the factory and store remains today and is South Pasadena Cultural Landmark #18.\n\n"}
{"id": "4585857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4585857", "title": "College tuition in the United States", "text": "College tuition in the United States\n\nCollege tuition in the United States is the privately borne cost of higher education collected by educational institutions in the United States, excluding the portion that is paid through taxes or from other government funds as supply-side subsidies to colleges and universities, or demand-side subsidies to students, or that is paid from university endowment funds or gifts through scholarships or grants.\n\nTuition for college has increased as the value, quality, and quantity of education has increased. These increases have occasionally been controversial.\n\nCollege attendance increased dramatically after World War II with the introduction of the GI bill and greater federal funding for higher education.\n\nUniversity based research was believed to have played a critical role in determining the outcome of WWII, and was believed to be essential for success in the Cold War. With the launch of the Sputnik satellite by the Soviet Union, many feared that the United States was falling behind on science and technology because it relied on private wealth to fund higher education, whereas the Soviet system was believed to be generously publicly funded, more meritocratic, and more closely tied to the needs of the economy and the military. Many families were unable to borrow sufficient funds to finance a high quality education for their children, and to thereby increase their children's earning capacity and standard of living, until after the introduction of federal student loans. As public subsidies fell and costs and quality of education increased, loans played an increasingly important role in higher education finance. Except for its military academies, the U.S. federal government does not directly operate and control higher education institutions. Instead it offers loans, grants, tax subsidies and research contracts. Land grants date back to the Morrill Act during the U.S. Civil War and direct grants to students date back to the \"G.I. Bill\" programs implemented after World War II.\n\nThe United States has one of the most expensive higher education systems in the world, and also one of the most successful in terms of the boost to earnings from higher education. Public colleges have no control over one major revenue source — the state. In 2016-17, the average cost of annual tuition in the United States ranged from $9,700 for public four-year institutions to $33,500 for private four-year institutions. Private colleges increased their tuition by an average of 1.7 percent in 2016-17, the smallest rise in four decades, according to the U.S. Consumer Price Index.\n\nBetween 2007-08 and 2017–18, published in-state tuition and fees at public four-year institutions increased at an average rate of 3.2% per year beyond inflation, compared with 4.0% between 1987–88 and 1997–98 and 4.4% between 1997–98 and 2007-08. One cause of increased tuition is the reduction of state and federal appropriations to state colleges, causing the institutions to shift the cost over to students in the form of higher tuition. State support for public colleges and universities has fallen by about 26 percent per full-time student since the early 1990s. In 2011, for the first time, American public universities took in more revenue from tuition than state funding. Critics say the shift from state support to tuition represents an effective privatization of public higher education. About 80 percent of American college students attend public institutions.\n\nCritics also note that investments in higher education are severely tax disadvantaged compared to other investments. Heavy taxes and inadequate subsidies to higher education contribute to underinvestment in education and a shortage of educated labor, as demonstrated by the very high pre-tax returns to investments in higher education.\n\nThe view that higher education is a bubble is controversial. Most economists do not think the returns to college education are falling. To the contrary, they appear to be both increasing, and to be much higher than the returns to other investments such as the stock market, bonds, real estate, or private equity.\n\nOne rebuttal to the claims that a bubble analogy is misleading is the observation that the 'bursting' of the bubble are the negative effects on students who incur student debt, for example, as the American Association of State Colleges and Universities reports that \"Students are deeper in debt today than ever before...The trend of heavy debt burdens threatens to limit access to higher education, particularly for low-income and first-generation students, who tend to carry the heaviest debt burden. Federal student aid policy has steadily put resources into student loan programs rather than need-based grants, a trend that straps future generations with high debt burdens. Even students who receive federal grant aid are finding it more difficult to pay for college.\"\n\nAnother proposed cause of increased tuition is U.S. Congress' occasional raising of the 'loan limits' of student loans, in which the increased availability of students to take out deeper loans sends a message to colleges and universities that students can 'afford more,' and then, in response, institutions of higher education raise tuition to match, leaving the student back where he began, but deeper in debt. College fees begin to accumulate when people start college, such as orientation and freshman fees, and additional charges upon your departure, such as senior and commencement fees. In 1987, then-Secretary of Education William Bennett argued that “... increases in financial aid in recent years have enabled colleges and universities blithely to raise their tuitions, confident that Federal loan subsidies would help cushion the increase.” This statement came to be known as the “Bennett Hypothesis.”\n\nThe nonpartisan New York Fed studied the effect of increased loan supply on tuition following large policy changes in federal aid program maximums available to undergraduate students that occurred between 2008 and 2010\" found \"that institutions that were most exposed to these [loan limit] maximums ahead of the policy changes experienced disproportionate tuition increases around these changes, with effects of changes in institution-specific program maximums of Pell Grant, subsidized.\"\n\nHowever, many empirical studies that have tested the effects of student loans on college tuition find no evidence of an increase in tuition, especially net of scholarships and after taking into account increases in the quality of education funded by increases in tuition. Moreover, the widespread availability of private student loans makes it unlikely that public student loan availability limits demand for education.\n\nAn additional rebuttal to the student loan theory is the fact that even in years when loan limits have not risen, tuition has still continued to climb, and tuition has increased more at public institutions than at private institutions. Public college tuition has jumped 33 percent nationwide since 2000.\n\nOne recent working paper posted online by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in 2015 (revised in 2016) concluded that undergraduate institutions more exposed to increases in student loan program maximums tend to respond with modest raises in tuition prices. The working paper has not yet been subject to peer review.\n\nA third, novel theory claims that the recent change in federal law removing all standard consumer protections (truth in lending, bankruptcy proceedings, statutes of limits, the right to refinance, adherence to usury laws, and Fair Debt & Collection practices, etc.) strips students of the ability to declare bankruptcy, and, in response, the lenders and colleges know that students, defenseless to declare bankruptcy, are on the hook for any amount that they borrow -including late fees and interest (which can be capitalized and increase the principal loan amount), thus removing the incentive to provide the student with a reasonable loan that he/she can pay back. However, changes in the availability of bankruptcy discharge for private student loans caused no changes in the pricing or availability of private student loans, suggesting that this theory is implausible.\n\nOther factors that have been implicated in increased tuition include the following:\n\nBased on the available data, recommendations to address rising tuition have been advanced by experts and consumer and students' rights advocates:\n\n\"Disproportional inflation\" refers to inflation in a particular economic sector that is substantially greater than inflation in general costs of living.\n\nThe following graph shows the inflation rates of general costs of living (for urban consumers; the CPI-U), medical costs (medical costs component of the consumer price index (CPI)), and college and tuition and fees for private four-year colleges (from College Board data) from 1978 to 2008. All rates are computed relative to 1978.\n\nCost of living increased roughly 3.25-fold during this time; medical costs inflated roughly 6-fold; but college tuition and fees inflation approached 10-fold. Another way to say this is that whereas medical costs inflated at twice the rate of cost-of-living, college tuition and fees inflated at four times the rate of cost-of-living inflation. Thus, even after controlling for the effects of general inflation, 2008 college tuition and fees posed three times the burden as in 1978.\n\nAccording to the College Board, the average tuition price for a 4-year public college in 2008-2009 was $6,585 compared to 2004 when the price was slightly above $5,000. The average price of in-state tuition vs out-of-state tuition for 2008-2009 was $6,585 for a in-state 4-year college to $17,452 for out-of-state 4 year college (collegeboard.com). The mean increase in college tuition is 4.2% annually\n\nMost economists believe that the benefits of higher education exceed the costs by a wide margin and that higher education more than pays for itself. There is concern about the investment in higher education because of excessive taxation of educated labor and inadequate subsidies.\n\nBesides economic effects of rapidly increasing debt burdens placed on students, there are social ramifications to higher student debt. Several studies demonstrate that students from lower income families are more likely to drop out of college to avoid debt. Families who are classified as middle class are at risk because due to the increasing cost of college tuition will be limited in their education and training that allows them to succeed in their communities.\n\nA closely related issue is the increase in students borrowing to finance college education and the resulting in student loan debt. In the 1980s, federal student loans became the centerpiece of student aid received. From 2006 -2012, federal student loans more than doubled and outstanding student loan debt grew to $807 billion. One of the consequences of increased student borrowing is an increase in the number of defaults. During this same time period, two-year default rates increased from 5.2 percent in 2006 to 9.1 percent in 2012 and more than doubled the historic low of 4.5 percent set in 2003.\n\nSince data collection began in 1987, the highest two-year default rate recorded was 22.4 percent in 1990. In 2012, the U.S. Department of Education released detailed federal student loan default rates including, for the first time, three-year default rates. For-profit institutions had the highest average three-year default rates at 22.7 percent while public institutions rates were 11 percent and private non-profit institutions at 7.5 percent. More than 3.6 million borrowers from over 5,900 schools entered repayment during 2008-2009, and approximately 489,000 of them defaulted. For-profit colleges account for 10 percent of enrolled students but 44 percent of student loan defaults.\n\nIn 2011, the \"Project on Student Debt\" reported that approximately two-thirds of students who graduated with bachelor's degrees from 4-year nonprofit universities had taken out student loans with an average debt of $25,250, an overall rise of five percent from 2009. In 2010 student loan debt surpassed 'Credit Card' debt. Student debt in the United States has reached $1 trillion, almost a 50% increase from 2008. As a result of the student loan and tuition crisis, studies have shown that students are experiencing stress under the current economic downturn and fiscal challenges.\n\nIn his 2012 State of the Union Address, President Barack Obama addressed the rising cost of higher education in the United States. Through an executive order in 2011, President Obama laid out a student loan plan, “Pay as you Earn,” that allows former students to pay education debts as a percentage of their incomes. Furthermore, the Obama administration has developed a standardized letter to be sent to admitted students indicating the cost of attendance at an institution, including all net costs as well as financial aid received. Use of the letter is not mandatory.Research has shown that since the year 2012 student debt has gotten worse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20914042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20914042", "title": "Comedy", "text": "Comedy\n\nIn a modern sense, Comedy (from the , \"kōmōidía\") refers to any discourse or work generally intended to be humorous or amusing by inducing laughter, especially in theatre, television, film, stand-up comedy, or any other medium of entertainment. The origins of the term are found in Ancient Greece. In the Athenian democracy, the public opinion of voters was influenced by the political satire performed by the comic poets at the theaters. The theatrical genre of Greek comedy can be described as a dramatic performance which pits two groups or societies against each other in an amusing agon or conflict. Northrop Frye depicted these two opposing sides as a \"Society of Youth\" and a \"Society of the Old.\" A revised view characterizes the essential agon of comedy as a struggle between a relatively powerless youth and the societal conventions that pose obstacles to his hopes. In this struggle, the youth is understood to be constrained by his lack of social authority, and is left with little choice but to take recourse in ruses which engender very dramatic irony which provokes laughter.\n\nSatire and political satire use comedy to portray persons or social institutions as ridiculous or corrupt, thus alienating their audience from the object of their humor. Parody subverts popular genres and forms, critiquing those forms without necessarily condemning them.\n\nOther forms of comedy include screwball comedy, which derives its humor largely from bizarre, surprising (and improbable) situations or characters, and black comedy, which is characterized by a form of humor that includes darker aspects of human behavior or human nature. Similarly scatological humor, sexual humor, and race humor create comedy by violating social conventions or taboos in comic ways. A comedy of manners typically takes as its subject a particular part of society (usually upper-class society) and uses humor to parody or satirize the behavior and mannerisms of its members. Romantic comedy is a popular genre that depicts burgeoning romance in humorous terms and focuses on the foibles of those who are falling in love.\n\nThe word \"comedy\" is derived from the Classical Greek κωμῳδία \"kōmōidía\", which is a compound either of κῶμος \"kômos\" (revel) or κώμη \"kṓmē\" (village) and ᾠδή \"ōidḗ\" (singing); it is possible that \"κῶμος\" itself is derived from \"κώμη\", and originally meant a village revel. The adjective \"comic\" (Greek κωμικός \"kōmikós),\" which strictly means that which relates to comedy is, in modern usage, generally confined to the sense of \"laughter-provoking\". Of this, the word came into modern usage through the Latin \"comoedia\" and Italian \"commedia\" and has, over time, passed through various shades of meaning.\n\nThe Greeks and Romans confined their use of the word \"comedy\" to descriptions of stage-plays with happy endings. Aristotle defined comedy as an imitation of men worse than the average (where tragedy was an imitation of men better than the average). However, the characters portrayed in comedies were not worse than average in every way, only insofar as they are Ridiculous, which is a species of the Ugly. The Ridiculous may be defined as a mistake or deformity not productive of pain or harm to others; the mask, for instance, that excites laughter is something ugly and distorted without causing pain. In the Middle Ages, the term expanded to include narrative poems with happy endings. It is in this sense that Dante used the term in the title of his poem, \"La Commedia\".\n\nAs time progressed, the word came more and more to be associated with any sort of performance intended to cause laughter. During the Middle Ages, the term \"comedy\" became synonymous with satire, and later with humour in general.\n\nAristotle's \"Poetics\" was translated into Arabic in the medieval Islamic world, where it was elaborated upon by Arabic writers and Islamic philosophers, such as Abu Bischr, and his pupils Al-Farabi, Avicenna, and Averroes. They disassociated comedy from Greek dramatic representation and instead identified it with Arabic poetic themes and forms, such as \"hija\" (satirical poetry). They viewed comedy as simply the \"art of reprehension\", and made no reference to light and cheerful events, or to the troubling beginnings and happy endings associated with classical Greek comedy.\n\nAfter the Latin translations of the 12th century, the term \"comedy\" gained a more general meaning in medieval literature.\n\nIn the late 20th century, many scholars preferred to use the term \"laughter\" to refer to the whole gamut of the comic, in order to avoid the use of ambiguous and problematically defined genres such as the grotesque, irony, and satire.\n\nStarting from 425 BCE, Aristophanes, a comic playwright and satirical author of the Ancient Greek Theater, wrote 40 comedies, 11 of which survive. Aristophanes developed his type of comedy from the earlier satyr plays, which were often highly obscene. The only surviving examples of the satyr plays are by Euripides, which are much later examples and not representative of the genre. In ancient Greece, comedy originated in bawdy and ribald songs or recitations apropos of phallic processions and fertility festivals or gatherings.\n\nAround 335 BCE, Aristotle, in his work \"Poetics\", stated that comedy originated in phallic processions and the light treatment of the otherwise base and ugly. He also adds that the origins of comedy are obscure because it was not treated seriously from its inception. However, comedy had its own Muse: Thalia.\n\nAristotle taught that comedy was generally positive for society, since it brings forth happiness, which for Aristotle was the ideal state, the final goal in any activity. For Aristotle, a comedy did not need to involve sexual humor. A comedy is about the fortunate rise of a sympathetic character. Aristotle divides comedy into three categories or subgenres: farce, romantic comedy, and satire. On the contrary, Plato taught that comedy is a destruction to the self. He believed that it produces an emotion that overrides rational self-control and learning. In \"The Republic\", he says that the guardians of the state should avoid laughter, \"for ordinarily when one abandons himself to violent laughter, his condition provokes a violent reaction.\" Plato says comedy should be tightly controlled if one wants to achieve the ideal state.\n\nAlso in \"Poetics\", Aristotle defined comedy as one of the original four genres of literature. The other three genres are tragedy, epic poetry, and lyric poetry. Literature, in general, is defined by Aristotle as a mimesis, or imitation of life. Comedy is the third form of literature, being the most divorced from a true mimesis. Tragedy is the truest mimesis, followed by epic poetry, comedy, and lyric poetry. The genre of comedy is defined by a certain pattern according to Aristotle's definition. Comedies begin with low or base characters seeking insignificant aims and end with some accomplishment of the aims which either lightens the initial baseness or reveals the insignificance of the aims.\n\nThe \"Divine Comedy\" ( ) is a long narrative poem by Dante Alighieri, begun c. 1308 and completed in 1320, a year before his death in 1321. It is widely considered to be the preeminent work in Italian literature and one of the greatest works of world literature. The poem's imaginative vision of the afterlife is representative of the medieval world-view as it had developed in the Western Church by the 14th century. It helped establish the Tuscan language, in which it is written, as the standardized Italian language. It is divided into three parts: \"Inferno\", \"Purgatorio\", and \"Paradiso\".\n\nThe narrative describes Dante's travels through Hell, Purgatory, and Paradise or Heaven, while allegorically the poem represents the soul's journey towards God. Dante draws on medieval Christian theology and philosophy, especially Thomistic philosophy and the \"Summa Theologica\" of Thomas Aquinas. Consequently, the \"Divine Comedy\" has been called \"the \"Summa\" in verse\". In Dante's work, Virgil is presented as human reason and Beatrice is presented as divine knowledge.\n\nThe work was originally simply titled \"Comedia\" (so also in the first printed edition, published in 1472). The adjective \"Divina\" was added by Giovanni Boccaccio, and the first edition to name the poem \"Divina Comedia\" in the title was that of the Venetian humanist Lodovico Dolce, published in 1555 by Gabriele Giolito de' Ferrari.\n\nThe \"Divine Comedy\" is composed of 14,233 lines that are divided into three \"cantiche\" (singular \"cantica\") – \"Inferno\" (Hell), \"Purgatorio\" (Purgatory), and \"Paradiso\" (Paradise) – each consisting of 33 cantos (Italian plural \"canti\"). An initial canto, serving as an introduction to the poem and generally considered to be part of the first \"cantica\", brings the total number of cantos to 100. It is generally accepted, however, that the first two cantos serve as a unitary prologue to the entire epic, and that the opening two cantos of each \"cantica\" serve as prologues to each of the three \"cantiche\".\n\n\"Comedy\", in its Elizabethan usage, had a very different meaning from modern comedy. A Shakespearean comedy is one that has a happy ending, usually involving marriages between the unmarried characters, and a tone and style that is more light-hearted than Shakespeare's other plays.\n\nThe Punch and Judy show has roots in the 16th-century Italian commedia dell'arte. The figure of Punch derives from the Neapolitan stock character of Pulcinella. The figure who later became Mr. Punch made his first recorded appearance in England in 1662. Punch and Judy are performed in the spirit of outrageous comedy — often provoking shocked laughter — and are dominated by the anarchic clowning of Mr. Punch. Appearing at a significant period in British history, professor Glyn Edwards states: \"[Pulcinella] went down particularly well with Restoration British audiences, fun-starved after years of Puritanism. We soon changed Punch's name, transformed him from a marionette to a hand puppet, and he became, really, a spirit of Britain — a subversive maverick who defies authority, a kind of puppet equivalent to our political cartoons.\"\n\nIn early 19th century England, pantomime acquired its present form which includes slapstick comedy and featured the first mainstream clown Joseph Grimaldi, while comedy routines also featured heavily in British music hall theatre which became popular in the 1850s. British comedians who honed their skills in music hall sketches include Charlie Chaplin, Stan Laurel and Dan Leno. English music hall comedian and theatre impresario Fred Karno developed a form of sketch comedy without dialogue in the 1890s, and Chaplin and Laurel were among the comedians who worked for his company. Karno was a pioneer of slapstick, and in his biography, Laurel stated, \"Fred Karno didn't teach Charlie [Chaplin] and me all we know about comedy. He just taught us most of it\". Film producer Hal Roach stated: \"Fred Karno is not only a genius, he is the man who originated slapstick comedy. We in Hollywood owe much to him.\" American vaudeville emerged in the 1880s and remained popular until the 1930s, and featured comedians such as W. C. Fields, Buster Keaton and the Marx Brothers.\n\nSurreal humour (also known as 'absurdist humour'), or 'surreal comedy', is a form of humour predicated on deliberate violations of causal reasoning, producing events and behaviours that are obviously illogical. Constructions of surreal humour tend to involve bizarre juxtapositions, incongruity, non-sequiturs, irrational or absurd situations and expressions of nonsense. The humour arises from a subversion of audience's expectations, so that amusement is founded on unpredictability, separate from a logical analysis of the situation. The humour derived gets its appeal from the ridiculousness and unlikeliness of the situation. The genre has roots in Surrealism in the arts.\nSurreal humour is the effect of illogic and absurdity being used for humorous effect. Under such premises, people can identify precursors and early examples of surreal humour at least since the 19th century, such as Lewis Carroll's \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" and \"Through the Looking-Glass\", which both use illogic and absurdity (hookah-smoking caterpillars, croquet matches using live flamingos as mallets, etc.) for humorous effect. Many of Edward Lear's children stories and poems contain nonsense and are basically surreal in approach. For example, \"The Story of the Four Little Children Who Went Round the World\" (1871) is filled with contradictory statements and odd images intended to provoke amusement, such as the following:\nIn the early 20th century, several avant-garde movements, including the dadaists, surrealists, and futurists, began to argue for an art that was random, jarring and illogical. The goals of these movements were in some sense serious, and they were committed to undermining the solemnity and self-satisfaction of the contemporary artistic establishment. As a result, much of their art was intentionally amusing.\n\nA famous example is Marcel Duchamp's \"Fountain\" (1917), an inverted urinal signed \"R. Mutt\". This became one of the most famous and influential pieces of art in history, and one of the earliest examples of the found object movement. It is also a joke, relying on the inversion of the item's function as expressed by its title as well as its incongruous presence in an art exhibition.\n\nThe advent of cinema in the late 19th century, and later radio and television in the 20th century broadened the access of comedians to the general public. Charlie Chaplin, through silent film, became one of the best-known faces on earth. The silent tradition lived on well into the 20th century through mime artists like Marcel Marceau, and the physical comedy of artists like Rowan Atkinson as Mr. Bean. The tradition of the circus clown also continued, with such as Bozo the Clown in the United States and Oleg Popov in Russia. Radio provided new possibilities — with Britain producing the influential Goon Show after the Second World War. American cinema has produced a great number of globally renowned comedy artists, from Laurel and Hardy, the Three Stooges, Abbott and Costello, Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis, as well as Bob Hope during the mid-20th century, to performers like George Carlin, Robin Williams, and Eddie Murphy at the end of the century. Hollywood attracted many international talents like the British comics Peter Sellers, Dudley Moore and Sacha Baron Cohen, Canadian comics Dan Aykroyd, Jim Carrey, and Mike Myers, and the Australian comedian Paul Hogan, famous for \"Crocodile Dundee\". Other centres of creative comic activity have been the cinema of Hong Kong, Bollywood, and French farce.\n\nAmerican television has also been an influential force in world comedy: with American series like \"M*A*S*H\", \"Seinfeld\" and \"The Simpsons\" achieving large followings around the world. British television comedy also remains influential, with quintessential works including \"Fawlty Towers\", Monty Python, \"Dad's Army\", \"Blackadder\", and \"The Office\". Australian satirist Barry Humphries, whose comic creations include the housewife and \"gigastar\" Dame Edna Everage, for his delivery of Dadaist and absurdist humour to millions, was described by biographer Anne Pender in 2010 as not only \"the most significant theatrical figure of our time ... [but] the most significant comedian to emerge since Charlie Chaplin\".\n\nBy 200 BC, in ancient Sanskrit drama, Bharata Muni's \"Natya Shastra\" defined humour (\"hāsyam\") as one of the nine \"nava rasas\", or principle \"rasas\" (emotional responses), which can be inspired in the audience by \"bhavas\", the imitations of emotions that the actors perform. Each \"rasa\" was associated with a specific \"bhavas\" portrayed on stage. In the case of humour, it was associated with mirth (\"hasya\").\n\nThe phenomena connected with laughter and that which provokes it have been carefully investigated by psychologists. They agree the predominant characteristics are incongruity or contrast in the object and shock or emotional seizure on the part of the subject. It has also been held that the feeling of superiority is an essential factor: thus Thomas Hobbes speaks of laughter as a \"sudden glory\". Modern investigators have paid much attention to the origin both of laughter and of smiling, as well as the development of the \"play instinct\" and its emotional expression.\n\nGeorge Meredith said that \"One excellent test of the civilization of a country ... I take to be the flourishing of the Comic idea and Comedy, and the test of true Comedy is that it shall awaken thoughtful laughter.\" Laughter is said to be the cure for being sick. Studies show that people who laugh more often get sick less.\n\nAmerican literary theorist Kenneth Burke writes that the \"comic frame\" in rhetoric is \"neither wholly euphemistic, nor wholly debunking—hence it provides the charitable attitude towards people that is required for purposes of persuasion and co-operation, but at the same time maintains our shrewdness concerning the simplicities of ‘cashing in.’\" The purpose of the comic frame is to satirize a given circumstance and promote change by doing so. The comic frame makes fun of situations and people, while simultaneously provoking thought. The comic frame does not aim to vilify in its analysis, but rather, rebuke the stupidity and foolery of those involved in the circumstances. For example, on \"The Daily Show\", Jon Stewart uses the \"comic frame\" to intervene in political arguments, often offering crude humor in sudden contrast to serious news. In a segment on President Obama's trip to China Stewart remarks on America's debt to the Chinese government while also having a weak relationship with the country. After depicting this dismal situation, Stewart shifts to speak directly to President Obama, calling upon him to \"shine that turd up.\" For Stewart and his audience, introducing coarse language into what is otherwise a serious commentary on the state of foreign relations serves to frame the segment comically, creating a serious tone underlying the comedic agenda presented by Stewart.\n\nComedy may be divided into multiple genres based on the source of humor, the method of delivery, and the context in which it is delivered. The different forms of comedy often overlap, and most comedy can fit into multiple genres. Some of the subgenres of comedy are farce, comedy of manners, burlesque, and satire.\n\nSome comedy apes certain cultural forms: for instance, parody and satire often imitate the conventions of the genre they are parodying or satirizing. For example, in the United States, parodies of newspapers and television news include \"The Onion\", and \"The Colbert Report\"; in Australia, shows such as \"Kath & Kim,\" \"Utopia\", and \"Shaun Micallef's Mad As Hell\" perform the same role.\n\nSelf-deprecation is a technique of comedy used by many comedians who focus on their misfortunes and foibles in order to entertain.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nStand-up comedy is a mode of comic performance in which the performer addresses the audience directly, usually speaking in their own person rather than as a dramatic character.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7547077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7547077", "title": "Correspondent inference theory", "text": "Correspondent inference theory\n\nCorrespondent inference theory is a psychological theory proposed by Edward E. Jones and Keith E. Davis (1965) that \"systematically accounts for a perceiver's inferences about what an actor was trying to achieve by a particular action\". The purpose of this theory is to explain why people make internal or external attributions. People compare their actions with alternative actions to evaluate the choices that they have made, and by looking at various factors they can decide if their behaviour was caused by an internal disposition. The covariation model is used within this, more specifically that the degree in which one attributes behavior to the person as opposed to the situation. These factors are the following: does the person have a choice in the partaking in the action, is their behavior expected by their social role, and is their behavior consequence of their normal behavior?\n\nThe problem of accurately defining intentions is a difficult one. For every observed act, there are a multitude of possible motivations. If a person buys someone a drink in the pub, he may be trying to curry favour, his friend may have bought him a drink earlier, or he may be doing a favour for a friend with no cash.\n\nThe work done by Jones and Davis only deals with how people make attributions to the person; they do not deal with how people make attributions about situational or external causes.\n\nJones and Davis make the assumption that, in order to infer that any effects of an action were intended, the perceiver must believe that (1) the actor knew the consequences of the actions (e.g., the technician who pushed that button at Chernobyl did not know the consequences of that action), (2) the actor had the ability to perform the action (could Lee Harvey Oswald really have shot John Kennedy?), and (3) the actor had the intention to perform the action.\n\nThe consequences of a chosen action must be compared with the consequences of possible alternative actions. The fewer effects the possible choices have in common, the more confident one can be in inferring a correspondent disposition. Or, put another way, the more distinctive the consequences of a choice, the more confidently one can infer intention and disposition.\n\nSuppose a student is planning to go on a postgraduate course, and they short-list two colleges – University College London and the London School of Economics. They choose UCL rather than the LSE. What can the social perceiver learn from this? First, there are a lot of common effects – urban environment, same distance from home, same exam system, similar academic reputation, etc. These common effects do not provide the perceiver with any clues about their motivation. But if the perceiver believes that UCL has better sports facilities, or easier access to the University Library, then these non-common or unique effects which can provide a clue to their motivation. But, suppose they had short-listed UCL and University of Essex and they choose UCL. Now the perceiver is faced with a number of non-common effects; size of city; distance from home; academic reputation; exam system. The perceiver would then be much less confident about inferring a particular intention or disposition when there are a lot of non-common effects. The fewer the non-common effects, the more certain the attribution of intent.\n\nPeople usually intend socially desirable outcomes, hence socially desirable outcomes are not informative about a person's intention or disposition. The most that someone can infer is that the person is normal – which is not saying anything very much. But socially undesirable actions are more informative about intentions and dispositions. Suppose a person asked a friend for a loan of £1 and it was given (a socially desirable action) – the perceiver couldn't say a great deal about their friend's kindness or helpfulness because most people would have done the same thing. If, on the other hand, the friend refused to lend them the money (a socially undesirable action), the perceiver might well feel that their friend is rather stingy, or even miserly.\n\nIn fact, social desirability – although an important influence on behaviour – is really only a special case of the more general principle that behaviour which deviates from the normal, usual, or expected is more informative about a person's disposition than behaviour that conforms to the normal, usual, or expected. So, for example, when people do not conform to group pressure we can be more certain that they truly believe the views they express than people who conform to the group. Similarly, when people in a particular social role (e.g. doctor, teacher, salesperson, etc.) behave in ways that are not in keeping with the role demands, we can be more certain about what they are really like than when people behave in role.\n\nOnly behaviours that disconfirm expectancies are truly informative about an actor. There are two types of expectancy. Category-based expectancies are those derived from our knowledge about particular types or groups of people. For example, if an individual were surprised to hear a wealthy businessman extolling the virtues of socialism, their surprise would rest on the expectation that businessmen (a category of people) are not usually socialist.\n\nTarget-based expectancies derive from knowledge about a particular person. To know that a person is a supporter of Margaret Thatcher sets up certain expectations and associations about their beliefs and character.\n\nAnother factor in inferring a disposition from an action is whether the behaviour of the actor is constrained by situational forces or whether it occurs from the actor's choice. If a student were assigned to argue a position in a classroom debate (e.g. for or against Neoliberalism), it would be unwise of their audience to infer that their statements in the debate reflect their true beliefs – because they did not choose to argue that particular side of the issue. If, however, they had chosen to argue one side of the issue, then it would be appropriate for the audience to conclude that their statements reflect their true beliefs.\n\nAlthough choice ought to have an important effect on whether or not people make correspondent inferences, research shows that people do not take choice sufficiently into account when judging another person's attributes or attitudes. There is a tendency for perceivers to assume that when an actor engages in an activity, such as stating a point of view or attitude, the statements made are indicative of the actor's true beliefs, even when there may be clear situational forces affecting the behaviour. In fact, earlier, psychologists had foreseen that something like this would occur; they thought that the actor-act relation was so strong – like a perceptual Gestalt – that people would tend to over-attribute actions to the actor even when there are powerful external forces on the actor that could account for the behaviour.\n\nThe tendency to attribute a behavior to the dispositional factor rather than the situational factor. For example Ali studied hard but still failed his maths test. His mother attributed the failure to Ali's laziness but neglected to consider the fact that the test paper was tough.\n\nWe tend to 'take it personally', when someone accidentally did something that can negatively impact us, we tend to think that the behaviour was personal and intended, although it was in fact just an accident. For example, when we had a group study, Ali spilled his coffee on Abu's papers. Abu thought that Ali did it on purpose to disturb his revision so that Abu can outscore him. But in fact he had no such intention and it was just an accident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1276969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1276969", "title": "Dick Barton", "text": "Dick Barton\n\nDick Barton – Special Agent was a popular radio thriller serial broadcast in the BBC Light Programme between 7 October 1946 and 30 March 1951. Produced and directed by Raymond Raikes, Neil Tuson, and Charles Lefaux, it was aired in 15-minute episodes at 6.45 (later 6.15) each weekday evening. From 11 January 1947 an additional \"omnibus\" edition repeated all of the week's programmes each Saturday morning between 11.00 and 12.00. In all, 711 episodes were produced and the serial achieved a peak audience of 15 million. Its end was marked by a leading article in \"The Times\".\n\nThe serial followed the adventures of ex-Commando Captain Richard Barton MC (Noel Johnson, later Duncan Carse and Gordon Davies) who, with his mates Jock Anderson (Alex McCrindle) and Snowy White (John Mann), solved all sorts of crimes, escaped from dangerous situations, and saved the nation from disaster time and again.\n\nThe series was replaced from time to time by one about the adventures of an explorer. One episode was titled \"Plague on the Plateau\".\n\nBeginning in 1948, the Hammer film company made three \"Dick Barton\" films and, long after the radio series had been replaced by \"The Archers\", Southern Television made a television version in 1979. \"Dick Barton\" has also been adapted into a tongue-in-cheek stage play and a spoof radio comedy. Each version has featured the original's memorable signature tune, \"Devil's Galop\" by Charles Williams.\n\nThe series was devised by producer Norman Collins. The scripts were written by Edward J. Mason and Geoffrey Webb. The programme gave rise to a popular catchphrase of the late 1940s \"With one bound Dick was free!\" which made light of the fact that no matter how dangerous the cliffhanging situation Dick found himself in every evening, he would always escape easily.\n\nEarly ideas for the character's name included \"Bill Barton\" and \"Rex Drake\". However, the production team finally settled on the more dynamic Dick Barton. After the series had been on the air for some time, the BBC (conscious that the biggest audience for the programme was schoolboys) wrote a strict code of what Dick and his chums could and couldn't do, one clause famously stating \"Sex plays no part in his adventures.\"\n\n\nIn 1951 \"The Archers\" was first broadcast at 11.45 am on the Light Programme. BBC management, led by drama head Val Gielgud, had never felt comfortable with the sensationalism of \"Dick Barton\". \"The Archers\", which they considered more 'suitable', took \"Dick Barton\"'s place in the schedules from Easter 1951. \n\nIn 1972 as part of the BBC's Golden Jubilee, the BBC broadcast a new, abridged, 10 episode version of the first Barton serial - \"The Secret Weapon\". The cast included many members of the original cast, including Noel Johnson, John Mann, William Fox, Alex McCrindle, and Margaret Robertson.\n\nFrom October 1997 to May 1998, BBC Radio 4 broadcast a six-part sequel/pastiche called \"Richard Barton: General Practitioner!\", in which Dick Barton's son Richard is a country doctor caring for his apparently senile father, who retreats into fantasies based on his past adventures, believing that there are devilish enemies lurking around him. The series was written by Edward Mason's son Lol Mason, and featured Moray Watson as old Dick Barton, Robert Bathurst as his son Richard, Matilda Ziegler as Richard's wife Sally, Julian Dutton as young Dick Barton and Iain Cuthbertson as Jock Anderson. The series was rebroadcast on BBC Radio 4 Extra in 2015.\n\nIn 2009, BBC Audiobooks released \"Dick Barton and the Mystery of the Missing Formula\" (), a reading of a novel based on the radio serials written by Mike Dorrell and read by Toby Stephens.\n\nThe BBC produced a completely new live recording of an original 1951 Dick Barton serial in June 2013, starring Tim Bentinck and Terry Molloy. \nhttp://www.bbcshop.com/dick-barton-live/invt/9781910281253\n\nBeginning in 1948, the Hammer film company made three Dick Barton films, which were intended to be the beginning of a long-running series. Don Stannard, the star, was killed in a car crash in 1949, and Hammer decided to discontinue the series after the production of only three films. Hammer shelved plans to film the next Dick Barton film, \"Dick Barton in Africa\" written by John Gilling.\n\n\nIn 1979, Southern Television, one of the smaller ITV Network Companies, made a series of \"Dick Barton - Special Agent\" which ran in an early evening slot on the ITV Network.\n\nLike the original, it ran in 15 minute segments and was again accompanied by the iconic theme tune, the titles playing against an animated dagger and target motif. The production was blighted by financial troubles, though, and some critics said it was a mistake to try to resurrect the character.\n\nThe cast of the show were Tony Vogel as Dick Barton, Anthony Heaton as Snowey White, James Cosmo as Jock Anderson and John Gatrell as Sir Richard Marley. The 32x15 minutes episodes were transmitted by most of the ITV network on Saturdays and Sundays between January and April 1979. Southern, however, screened the show across consecutive nights from Mondays through to Thursday in the radio series' original timeslot of 6.45 to 7.00pm.\n\n\nThe complete series was released on DVD in March 2009, and in 2010 reruns of \"Dick Barton\" were shown on the British satellite television channel Film 24. By 2016 it had reappeared on another satellite channel, Talking Pictures TV. Rumours have suggested that a revival starring actor Nigel Havers was being planned, but to date this has come to nothing.\n\nA stage musical, \"Dick Barton Episode I, Special Agent\", written by Phil Willmott, directed by Ted Craig. Musical direction was by Stefan Bednarczyk. It premièred at the Warehouse Theatre in December 1998 to great acclaim. It was revived in 1999 and productions then toured Britain between 1998 and 2001. Following its success, further \"episodes\" were written and performed at the Warehouse Theatre:\n\nDecember 1999 was \"Dick Barton Episode II, The Curse Of The Pharaoh's Tomb\" by Phil Willmott. Musical direction was by Stefan Bednarczyk. This was commissioned by and premièred at the Warehouse Theatre.\n\nDecember 2001 was \"Dick Barton Episode III, The Tango Of Terror\" by Phil Willmott. Musical direction by Stefan Bednarczyk. This was commissioned by and premièred at the Warehouse Theatre. It later toured to Yvonne Arnaud Theatre, Guilford & Swan Theatre, Stratford-upon-Avon.\n\nDecember 2002 was \"Dick Barton Episode IV, The Flight of the Phoenix\" by Duncan Wisbey and Stefan Bednarcxyk, directed by Ted Craig. This was commissioned by and premièred at the Warehouse Theatre.\n\nDecember 2003 was \"Dick Barton Episode V, The Excess of Evil\" by Duncan Wisbey and Stefan Bednarcyk, directed by Ted Craig. This was commissioned by and premièred at the Warehouse Theatre.\n\nDecember 2006 was \"Young Dick Barton\" by Duncan Wisbey, lyrics by Stefan Bednarczyk and directed by Ted Craig. This was commissioned by and premièred at the Warehouse Theatre.\n\nDecember 2008 was \"Young Dick Barton Episode II, The Devil Wears Tweed\" by Duncan Wisbey. Music and lyrics by Stefan Bednarczyk. This was commissioned by and premièred at the Warehouse Theatre.\n\nDecember 2009 was \"Dick Barton, Quantum Of Porridge\" by Duncan Wisbey. Music and lyrics by Stefan Bednarcyk. This was commissioned by and premièred at the Warehouse Theatre.\n\nDecember 2010 was \"Dick Barton, A Fist Full Of Barton\" by Kit Benjamin and Philip Ives, musical director was Stefan Bednarczyk. This was commissioned by and premièred at the Warehouse Theatre.\n\nThe BBC's 1972 remake of the very first Dick Barton serial has been available to buy on BBC CD and tape for many years. For some time, this was the only Dick Barton radio material that was commercially available, having been recovered from a recording made by a member of the public. However, this has now changed.\n\nIn February 2011, BBC Radio 4 and a number of national newspapers reported that 338 episodes of Dick Barton recorded in the late 1940s had been recovered from the NFSA [National Film and Sound Archive] in Australia; these re-recordings, using the original BBC scripts and music cues, starred Douglas Kelly as Barton with Moira Carleton, Clifford Cowley, Richard Davies, William Lloyd and Patricia Kennedy. BBC Worldwide's audio arm have released a number of these on CD.\n\nThe Dick Barton radio series was later relaunched in the UK on BBC Radio 4 Extra (formerly BBC Radio 7) and further Dick Barton CDs have been announced by AudioGO (using the NFSA recordings).\n\nThe BBC produced a completely new live recording of an original 1951 Dick Barton serial in June 2013, starring Tim Bentinck and Terry Molloy. \nhttps://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-22689138\n\nThis new live production of the 1951 Barton story 'Dick Barton and the Trail of the Rocket' was recorded at the Y Theatre in Leicester using original scripts from 1951. It was released on CD by BBC Audio in July 2014, along with a number of bonus features. It is the only recording of this final Dick Barton serial to be made available by the BBC on CD. The original 1951 recording was never archived. It was billed as 'Dick Barton - Special Agent: LIVE' and starred Tim Bentinck in the lead.\n\nThe following Dick Barton dramas are now available to buy on CD (or as downloads) via BBC Audio:\n\n1 \"STORY 1\": 'Dick Barton and the Secret Weapon' (AKA 'Dick Barton: Special Agent) written by Edward J.Mason and originally broadcast 1946. The serial was re-recorded in November 1972 with much of the original cast. This is the 1972 version. (RELEASED: 1989) (RE-RELEASED: 2001 and 2009)\nhttps://www.amazon.co.uk/Dick-Barton-Special-Agent-Crimes/dp/1408426102/ref=pd_bxgy_b_img_c\n\n2 \"STORY 2\": 'Dick Barton and the Paris Adventure' (which takes place right after \"The Secret Weapon\") written by Edward J. Mason. This recording was originally broadcast in Australia 14 March - 14 April 1949; original United Kingdom transmission dates are unknown at this time. (RELEASED: April 2011)\nhttps://www.amazon.co.uk/Barton-Paris-Adventure-Edward-Mason/dp/140846800X/ref=pd_sim_b_1\n\n3 \"STORY 3\": 'Dick Barton and the Cabatolin Diamonds' (which takes place right after \"The Paris Adventure\") written by Geoffrey Webb. This recording was originally broadcast in Australia 18 April - 19 May 1949; original United Kingdom transmission dates are unknown at this time. (RELEASED: April 2011)\nhttps://www.amazon.co.uk/Dick-Barton-Cabatolin-Diamonds-Geoffrey/dp/1408468107/ref=pd_bxgy_b_img_c\n\n4 \"STORY 6\": 'Dick Barton and the Smash and Grab Raiders' written by Ronnie and Arthur Colley. This recording was originally broadcast in the United Kingdom 24 February - 12 March 1947 and in Australia August - September 1949. (RELEASED: 3 November 2011) \nhttps://www.amazon.co.uk/Dick-Barton-Smash-Raiders-Audio/dp/1445865114/ref=sr_1_5?ie=UTF8&qid=1320237747&sr=8-5\n\n5 \"STORY 7\": 'Dick Barton and the Tibetan Adventure' (which takes place right after \"The Smash and Grab Raiders\") written by Edward J. Mason. This recording was originally broadcast in the United Kingdom 24 March - 18 April 1947 and in Australia 19 September - 14 October 1949. (RELEASED: 3 November 2011) \nhttps://www.amazon.co.uk/Barton-Tibetan-Adventure-Edward-Mason/dp/1445865122/ref=pd_sim_b_1\n\n6 \"STORY 9\": 'Dick Barton and the Affair of the Black Panther' written by Geoffrey Webb. This recording was originally broadcast in the United Kingdom 10 - 31 May 1947 and in Australia 3 November - December 1949. (RELEASED: 5 January 2012) https://www.amazon.co.uk/Dick-Barton-Vulture-Edward-Mason/dp/1445865149/ref=sr_1_7?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1326376756&sr=1-7\n\n7 \"STORY 10\": 'Dick Barton and the Vulture' (which takes place right after \"The Affair of the Black Panther\") written by Edward J. Mason. This story was first broadcast in the United Kingdom 29 September 1947 – 24 October 1947. Australian broadcast dates are unknown. (RELEASED: 5 January 2012)\nhttps://www.amazon.co.uk/Dick-Barton-Vulture-Edward-Mason/dp/1445865149/ref=sr_1_7?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1326376756&sr=1-7\n\n8 \"STORY 13\": 'Dick Barton and the Li-Chang Adventure' written by Edward J. Mason. This story was first broadcast in the United Kingdom 22 December 1947 – 23 January 1948. Australian broadcast dates are unknown. (RELEASED: 5 APRIL 2012)\nhttps://www.amazon.co.uk/Barton-Li-Chang-Adventure-Radio-Collection/dp/1445865157/ref=sr_1_10?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1326376756&sr=1-10\n\n9 \"STORY 14\": 'Dick Barton and the Case of Conrad Ruda' (which takes place right after \"The Li-Chang Adventure\") written by Basil Dawson. This story was first broadcast in the United Kingdom 26 January 1948 – 20 February 1948. Australian broadcast dates are unknown. (RELEASED: 5 APRIL 2012)\nhttps://www.amazon.co.uk/Dick-Barton-Conrad-Radio-Collection/dp/1445865165/ref=sr_1_5?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1326376756&sr=1-5\n\n10 \"STORY 16\": 'Dick Barton and the Firefly Adventure' written by Morris West. This story was first broadcast in the United Kingdom sometime in 1950; actual transmission dates are unknown at this time. Australian broadcast dates are unknown. (RELEASED: 3 SEPTEMBER 2015)\nhttps://www.amazon.co.uk/Dick-Barton-Firefly-Adventure-full-cast/dp/1785291556/ref=sr_1_4?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1428684259&sr=1-4&keywords=Dick+Barton\n\nDick Barton - Special Agent: LIVE:\n\n11 \"STORY 39\": 'Dick Barton and the Trail of the Rocket' written by Bertie Chapman. (RELEASED: July 2014)\nhttps://www.amazon.co.uk/Dick-Barton-Live-B-D-Chapman/dp/1910281255/ref=sr_1_13?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1401456287&sr=1-13&keywords=dick+barton\n\nAll of the above, including the BBC Radio documentary \"Dick Barton: Still a Special Agent\", have been released together for audio download as \"Dick Barton: Special Agent - The Complete BBC Radio Collection\" by Audible. https://www.audible.com/pd/Radio-TV/Dick-Barton-Special-Agent-Audiobook/B074THPPLW?ref=a_a_search_c3_lProduct_1_1&pf_rd_p=e81b7c27-6880-467a-b5a7-13cef5d729fe&pf_rd_r=W0FS6NKPP6AX6MW21ZK1&\n\nDaily Express Article\n\nhttp://www.bbcshop.com/dick-barton-live/invt/9781910281253\n\nthrillingdetective.com lists radio and TV series, films and novels\n\nFilms on the IMDB database\n"}
{"id": "6490834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6490834", "title": "Endurance training", "text": "Endurance training\n\nEndurance training is the act of exercising to increase endurance. The term endurance training generally refers to training the aerobic system as opposed to the anaerobic system. The need for endurance in sports is often predicated as the need of cardiovascular and simple muscular endurance, but the issue of endurance is far more complex. Endurance can be divided into two categories including: general endurance and specific endurance. It can be shown that endurance in sport is closely tied to the execution of skill and technique. A well conditioned athlete can be defined as, the athlete who executes his or her technique consistently and effectively with the least effort.\n\nEndurance training is essential for a variety of endurance sports. A notable example is distance running events (800 meters upwards to marathon and ultra-marathon) with the required degree of endurance training increasing with race distance. Two other popular examples are cycling (particularly road cycling) and competitive swimming. These three endurance sports are combined in triathlon. Other sports for which extensive amounts of endurance training are required include rowing and cross country skiing. Athletes can also undergo endurance training when their sport may not necessarily be an endurance sport in the whole sense but may still demand some endurance. For instance aerobic endurance is necessary (to varying extents) in racket sports, football, rugby, martial arts, basketball and cricket. Endurance exercise tends to be popular with non-athletes for the purpose of increasing general fitness or burning more calories to increase weight loss potential.\n\nLong-term endurance training induces many physiological adaptations both centrally and peripherally mediated. Central cardiovascular adaptations include decreased heart rate, increased stroke volume of the heart, increased blood plasma, without any major changes in red blood cell count, which reduces blood viscosity and increased cardiac output as well as total mitochondrial volume in the muscle fibers used in the training (i.e. the thigh muscles in runners will have more mitochondria than the thigh muscles of swimmers). Mitochondria increase in both number and size and there are similar increases in myoglobin and oxidative enzymes. Adaptations of the peripheral include capillarization, that is an increase in the surface area that both the venous and arterial capillaries supply. This also allows for increased heat dissipation during strenuous exercise. The muscles heighten their glycogen and fat storing capabilities in endurance athletes in order to increase the length in time in which they can perform work. Endurance training primarily work the slow twitch (type 1) fibers and develop such fibers in their efficiency and resistance to fatigue. Catabolism also improves increasing the athletes capacity to use fat and glycogen stores as an energy source. These metabolic processes are known as glycogenolysis, glycolysis and lipolysis. There is higher efficiency in oxygen transport and distribution. In recent years it has been recognized that oxidative enzymes such as succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) that enable mitochondria to break down nutrients to form ATP increase by 2.5 times in well trained endurance athletes In addition to SDH, myoglobin increases by 75-80% in well trained endurance athletes.\n\nThe potential for negative health effects from long-term, high-volume endurance training have begun to emerge in the scientific literature in recent years. The known risks are primarily associated with training for and participation in extreme endurance events, and affect the cardiovascular system through adverse structural remodeling of the heart and the associated arteries, with heart-rhythm abnormalities perhaps being the most common resulting symptom. Endurance exercise can also reduce testosterone levels.\n\nCommon methods for training include periodization, intervals, hard easy, long slow distance, and in recent years high-intensity interval training. The periodization method is very common and was accredited to Tudor Bompa and consists of blocks of time, generally 4–12 weeks each. The blocks are called preparation, base, build and race. The goal of a structured training program with periodization is to bring the athlete into peak fitness at the time of a big race or event. Preparation as the name suggests lays the groundwork for heavier work to follow. For a runner contemplating a competitive marathon the preparation phase might consist of easier runs of 1–4 miles 3-4 times per week and including 2–3 days of core strengthening. In the base phase the athlete now works on building cardiovascular endurance by having several long runs staying in heart rate zone 1-2 every week and each week adding slightly more mileage (using 10% rule for safely increasing the mileage). Core strengthening is continued in the base period. Once the base phase is complete and the athlete has sufficient endurance, the build period is needed to give the athlete the ability to hold a faster pace for the race duration. The build phase is where duration of runs is traded for intensity or heart rate zones 3-5. An easy method to obtain intensity is interval training and interval training starts to happen in the build phase. Through interval training during the build phase the athlete can achieve higher lactate threshold and in some athletes VO2 max is increased. Because interval training is demanding on the body, a professional coach should be consulted. In the very least the athlete should do a warm up and active stretching before the interval session and static stretch or yoga after hard interval sessions. It is also advisable to have days of rest or easy workouts the day after interval sessions. Finally the race phase of the periodization approach is where the duration of the workouts decreases but intense workouts remain so as to keep the high lactate threshold that was gained in the build phase. In Ironman training, the race phase is where a long \"taper\" occurs of up to 4 weeks for highly trained Ironman racers. A final phase is designated transition and is a period of time, where the body is allowed to recover from the hard race effort and some maintenance endurance training is performed so the high fitness level attained in the previous periods will not be lost.\n\nTraditionally, strength training (the performance of exercises with resistance or added weight) was not deemed appropriate for endurance athletes due to potential interference in the adaptive response to the endurance elements of an athlete's training plan. There were also misconceptions regarding the addition of excess body mass through muscle hypertrophy (growth) associated with strength training, which could negatively effect endurance performance by increasing the amount of work required to be completed by the athlete. However, more recent and comprehensive research has proved that short-term (8 weeks) strength training in addition to endurance training is beneficial for endurance performance, particularly long-distance running.\n\nThe heart rate monitor is one of the relatively easy methods to assess fitness in endurance athletes. By comparing heart rate over time fitness gains can be observed when the heart rate decreases for running or cycling at a given speed. In cycling the effect of wind on the cyclists speed is difficult to subtract out and so many cyclists now use power meters built into their bicycles. The power meter allows the athlete to actually measure power output over a set duration or course and allows direct comparison of fitness progression. In the 2008 Olympics Michael Phelps was aided by repeated lactate threshold measurement. This allowed his coaches to fine tune his training program so that he could recover between swim events that were sometimes several minutes apart. Much similar to blood glucose for diabetes, lower priced lactate measurement devices are now available but in general the lactate measurement approach is still the domain of the professional coach and elite athlete.\n\n"}
{"id": "1641973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1641973", "title": "Founder's syndrome", "text": "Founder's syndrome\n\nFounder's syndrome (also founderitis) is a popular term for a difficulty faced by organizations where one or more founders maintain disproportionate power and influence following the effective initial establishment of the project, leading to a wide range of problems for the organization. The passion and charisma of the founder(s), sources of the initial creativity and productivity of the organization, become limiting or destructive factors. The syndrome occurs in both non-profit and for-profit organizations. It may simply limit further growth and success of the project, or it may lead to bitter factionalism and divisions as the scale of demands made on the organization increases, or it may result in outright failure. There are ways in which a founder or organization can respond and grow beyond this situation.\n\nAn organization suffering from founder's syndrome typically presents many of the following symptoms:\n\nCoping with founder's syndrome requires discussion of the problem, a plan of action, and interventions by the founder, the board and or by others involved in the organization. The objective of the plan should be to allow the organization to make a successful transition to a mature organizational model without damage to either the organization itself or the individuals concerned.\n\nDespite the negative symptoms listed above, according to one study focused on \"knowledge-intensive technology\" companies, founders with a hands-on management style are more likely to retain employees and see their firms thrive. \n\n"}
{"id": "48166783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48166783", "title": "French Tech", "text": "French Tech\n\nFrench Tech is an accreditation awarded to French cities recognized for their startup ecosystem. It is also a name used by technologically innovative French businesses throughout the world.\n\nConvinced by the necessity to promote the emergence of successful start-ups in France to generate economic value and jobs, the French Government created the French Tech Initiative at the end of 2013. Its philosophy: build on member initiatives of the French Tech themselves, highlight what already exists, and create a snowball effect. It is a shared ambition, propelled by the State but carried and built with all the actors of the French tech company and start-up scene.\n\nThe French Tech initiative also has a transversal objective: to enhance the coherence of public actions in favor of startups. It does not create a new organization or a new public tool, but is carried by a small team, Mission French Tech, which works closely with the French Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the General Commissariat for Investment. Its partners, the pillars of the initiative, are national operators, who, under the common banner \"French Tech\" coordinate their actions in favor of startups: Caisse des Dépôts, Bpifrance and Business France.\n\nFunding from the French Tech Initiative for accelerators (€ 200 million) and international attractiveness (€ 15 million) is part of the Investments for the Future program. In this context, the operator is Caisse des Dépôts, which relies on Bpifrance for investment in accelerators and on Business France for international investments.\n\nThe French Tech aims to provide a strong common visual identity to French startups as well as to promote entrepreneurial exchanges between them.\n\nNine French cities received French Tech accreditation in November 2014 during a first wave of certification.\n\nCities like Strasbourg, Mulhouse, Nice, Avignon, Angers, Brest and Saint-Étienne preferred to wait to register their candidacies later in 2015.\n\nIn January 2015, the French Minister for Digital Affairs Axelle Lemaire announced a budget of €15 million to enhance the attractiveness of the French Tech abroad.\n\nThe Banque Publique d'Investissement (Bpifrance) also announced it was investing €200 million in subsidies from 2015. In 2012 alone, Bpifrance invested €700 million.\n\nAxelle Lemaire also announced the establishment of 'French Tech Hubs' in major international cities like Montreal, New York City, London, Berlin, Barcelona, Stockholm, Tokyo, Singapore, Seoul, Shanghai, Taipei, Tel Aviv, São Paulo, Phnom Pen, Cape Town, Abidjan, Moscow and Santiago. Some of which (New York City, Boston, San Francisco, Tel Aviv, Tokyo, London) have already opened since February 2014.\n\nIn 2016, the movement continued to expand its international reach, notably in international shows and forums. In the United States of America, French startups were part of the largest foreign delegation at the 2016 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. 190 French Tech startups were enrolled this year, with a total of 210 French businesses on site. They were the largest European delegation at the 2015 Consumer Electronics Show.\nIn January 2017, the French delegation was the largest foreign delegation again at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.\n\nIn June 2017, the French Tech national ecosystem has seen the inauguration of world's biggest business incubator, Station F, in Paris. It hosts 1,000 start-ups within 34,000 square meters in the heart of the city.\n\nIn November 2014, nine cities were accredited:\n\n\nIn June 2015, four new specialised areas were accredited:\n\nTo this list are added four thematic cities:\n\nOn October 21, 2015, eight major retailers signed a charter to highlight French Tech products on their shelves, at the French Ministry of Economy with Axelle Lemaire, Minister for Digital Affairs.\n\nAmong those who signed the charter are major players in the retail sector, including Auchan, Boulanger, Carrefour, Darty, Fnac, E.Leclerc, Lick and Orange S.A..\n\n\"This charter officially marks our commitment to support French technological innovation in the field of the Internet of things, on the long term\" said Daniel Broche, e-commerce director at Boulanger. The charter was signed during the national 'week of connected devices' which runs yearly until the 25th October and during which certain activities are planned in stores around France and on the internet with the hashtag #HappyFrenchTech.\n\nWithin the following weeks, only Boulanger had issued a clear statement on its application of the agreement. The brand has created a dedicated online marketplace and agrees to sell a number of products in stores, such as a virtual reality helmet, an 'intelligent' keyring or a connected lamp.\n\nFrench Tech cities and hubs :\n"}
{"id": "45299977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45299977", "title": "German Terminology Association", "text": "German Terminology Association\n\nThe German Terminology Association (German \"Deutscher Terminologie-Tag e.V.\", commonly known in English by the abbreviation \"DTT\") is a registered professional association in Germany for individuals and organizations interested in terminology. The DTT was founded in 1987 and is registered in Cologne.\n\nThe DTT's mission is to find ways of improving technical communication through terminology management. It acts as a forum for discussing terminology issues and supports individuals, companies, and public agencies, domestic and foreign, in achieving their own terminological goals. The DTT cooperates with other organizations on terminology management matters, including the Council for German-Language Terminology (German \"Rat für deutschsprachige Terminologie\"), Infoterm, TermNet, the German technical communication association tekom, the Federal Association of Interpreters and Translators (German \"Bundesverband der Dolmetscher und Übersetzer e.V.\") and the European Association for Terminology, among others.\n\nThe DTT's original group of experts in terminology management theory and practice developed into the German Institute for Terminology (German \"Deutsches Institut für Terminologie e.V.\", or \"DIT\"), which continues to serve as the advisory board for the DTT.\n\nThe DTT sponsors a biennial symposium featuring topics of interest in terminology work. In addition the DTT organizes seminars and lectures and releases publications including the twice-yearly technical journal \"Edition\", proceedings of the symposiums, and a \"Best Practice\" guide for terminology management.\n\n"}
{"id": "148595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148595", "title": "Great Expectations", "text": "Great Expectations\n\nGreat Expectations is the thirteenth novel by Charles Dickens and his penultimate completed novel: a bildungsroman that depicts the personal growth and personal development of an orphan nicknamed Pip. It is Dickens's second novel, after \"David Copperfield\", to be fully narrated in the first person. The novel was first published as a serial in Dickens's weekly periodical \"All the Year Round\", from 1 December 1860 to August 1861. In October 1861, Chapman and Hall published the novel in three volumes.\n\nThe novel is set in Kent and London in the early to mid-19th century and contains some of Dickens's most memorable scenes, including the opening in a graveyard, where the young Pip is accosted by the escaped convict, Abel Magwitch. \"Great Expectations\" is full of extreme imagery—poverty, prison ships and chains, and fights to the death—and has a colourful cast of characters who have entered popular culture. These include the eccentric Miss Havisham, the beautiful but cold Estella, and Joe, the unsophisticated and kind blacksmith. Dickens's themes include wealth and poverty, love and rejection, and the eventual triumph of good over evil. \"Great Expectations\", which is popular both with readers and literary critics, has been translated into many languages and adapted numerous times into various media.\n\nUpon its release, the novel received near universal acclaim. Although Dickens's contemporary Thomas Carlyle referred to it disparagingly as that \"Pip nonsense,\" he nevertheless reacted to each fresh instalment with \"roars of laughter.\" Later, George Bernard Shaw praised the novel, as \"All of one piece and consistently truthful.\" During the serial publication, Dickens was pleased with public response to \"Great Expectations\" and its sales; when the plot first formed in his mind, he called it \"a very fine, new and grotesque idea.\"\n\nOn Christmas Eve, around 1812, Pip, an orphan who is about seven years old, encounters an escaped convict in the village churchyard, while visiting the graves of his parents and siblings. Pip now lives with his abusive elder sister and her kind husband Joe Gargery, a blacksmith. The convict scares Pip into stealing food and a file. Early on Christmas morning Pip returns with the file, a pie and brandy. \nDuring Christmas Dinner that evening, at the moment Pip's theft is about to be discovered, soldiers arrive and ask Joe to repair some shackles. Joe and Pip accompany them as they recapture the convict who is fighting with another escaped convict. The first convict confesses to stealing food from the smithy.\nA year or two later, Miss Havisham, a wealthy spinster who still wears her old wedding dress and lives as a recluse in the dilapidated Satis House, asks Mr Pumblechook, a relation of the Gargery's, to find a boy to visit her. Pip visits Miss Havisham and falls in love with her adopted daughter Estella. Estella remains aloof and hostile to Pip, which Miss Havisham encourages. Pip visits Miss Havisham regularly, until he is old enough to learn a trade.\n\nJoe accompanies Pip for the last visit, when she gives the money for Pip to be bound as apprentice blacksmith. Joe's surly assistant, Dolge Orlick, is envious of Pip and dislikes Mrs Joe. When Pip and Joe are away from the house, Mrs Joe is brutally attacked, leaving her unable to speak or do her work. Orlick is suspected of the attack. Mrs Joe becomes kind-hearted after the attack. Pip's former schoolmate Biddy joins the household to help with her care.\nFour years into Pip's apprenticeship, Mr Jaggers, a lawyer, tells him that he has been provided with money, from an anonymous benefactor, so that he can become a gentleman. Pip is to leave for London, but presuming that Miss Havisham is his benefactor, he first visits her.\n\nPip sets up house in London at Barnard's Inn with Herbert Pocket, the son of his tutor, Matthew Pocket, who is a cousin of Miss Havisham. Herbert and Pip have previously met at Satis Hall, where Herbert was rejected as a playmate for Estella. He tells Pip how Miss Havisham was defrauded and deserted by her fiancé. Pip meets fellow pupils, Bentley Drummle, a brute of a man from a wealthy noble family, and Startop, who is agreeable. Jaggers disburses the money Pip needs.\n\nWhen Joe visits Pip at Barnard's Inn, Pip is ashamed of him. Joe relays a message from Miss Havisham that Estella will be at Satis House for a visit. Pip returns there to meet Estella and is encouraged by Miss Havisham, but he avoids visiting Joe. He is disquieted to see Orlick now in service to Miss Havisham. He mentions his misgivings to Jaggers, who promises Orlick's dismissal. Back in London, Pip and Herbert exchange their romantic secrets: Pip adores Estella and Herbert is engaged to Clara. Pip meets Estella when she is sent to Richmond to be introduced into society.\n\nPip and Herbert build up debts. Mrs Joe dies and Pip returns to his village for the funeral. Pip's income is fixed at £500 per annum when he comes of age at twenty-one. With the help of Jaggers' clerk, Wemmick, Pip plans to help advance Herbert's future prospects by anonymously securing him a position with the shipbroker, Clarriker's. Pip takes Estella to Satis House. She and Miss Havisham quarrel over Estella's coldness. In London, Bentley Drummle outrages Pip, by proposing a toast to Estella. Later, at an Assembly Ball in Richmond, Pip witnesses Estella meeting Bentley Drummle and warns her about him; she replies that she has no qualms about entrapping him.\n\nA week after he turns 23 years old, Pip learns that his benefactor is the convict he encountered in the churchyard, Abel Magwitch, who had been transported to New South Wales after that escape. He has become wealthy after gaining his freedom there, but cannot return to England. However, he returns to see Pip, who was the motivation for all his success. Pip is shocked, and stops taking money from him. Subsequently, Pip and Herbert Pocket devise a plan for Magwitch to escape from England.\n\nMagwitch shares his past history with Pip, and reveals that the escaped convict whom he fought in the churchyard was Compeyson, the fraudster who had deserted Miss Havisham.\nPip returns to Satis Hall to visit Estella and encounters Bentley Drummle, who has also come to see her and now has Orlick as his servant. Pip accuses Miss Havisham of misleading him about his benefactor. She admits to doing so, but says that her plan was to annoy her relatives. Pip declares his love to Estella, who, coldly, tells him that she plans on marrying Drummle. Heartbroken, Pip walks back to London, where Wemmick warns him that Compeyson is seeking him. Pip and Herbert continue preparations for Magwitch's escape.\n\nAt Jaggers's house for dinner, Wemmick tells Pip how Jaggers acquired his maidservant, Molly, rescuing her from the gallows when she was accused of murder.\n\nThen, full of remorse, Miss Havisham tells Pip how the infant Estella was brought to her by Jaggers and raised by her to be cold-hearted. She knows nothing about Estella's parentage. She also tells Pip that Estella is now married. She gives Pip money to pay for Herbert Pocket's position at Clarriker's, and asks for his forgiveness. As Pip is about to leave, Miss Havisham accidentally sets her dress on fire. Pip saves her, injuring himself in the process. She eventually dies from her injuries, lamenting her manipulation of Estella and Pip. Pip now realises that Estella is the daughter of Molly and Magwitch. When confronted about this, Jaggers discourages Pip from acting on his suspicions.\nA few days before Magwitch's planned escape, Pip is lured by an anonymous letter into a sluice house near his old home, where he is seized by Orlick, who intends to kill him. Orlick confesses to injuring Pip's sister. As Pip is about to be struck by a hammer, Herbert Pocket and Startop arrive to rescue him. The three of them pick up Magwitch to row him to the steamboat for Hamburg, but they are met by a police boat carrying Compeyson, who has offered to identify Magwitch. Magwitch seizes Compeyson, and they fight in the river. Seriously injured, Magwitch is taken by the police. Compeyson's body is found later.\n\nPip is aware that Magwitch's fortune will go to the crown after his trial. But Herbert, who is preparing to move to Cairo, Egypt, to manage Clarriker's office there, offers Pip a position there. Pip regularly visits Magwitch in the prison hospital as he awaits trial, and on Magwitch's deathbed tells him that his daughter Estella is alive. After Herbert's departure for Cairo, Pip falls ill in his rooms, and faces arrest for debt. However, Joe nurses Pip back to health and pays off his debt. When Pip begins to recover, Joe slips away. Pip then returns to propose to Biddy, only to find that she has married Joe. Pip asks Joe's forgiveness, promises to repay him and leaves for Cairo. There he shares lodgings with Herbert and Clara, and eventually advances to become third in the company. Only then does Herbert learn that Pip paid for his position in the firm.\n\nAfter working eleven years in Egypt, Pip returns to England and visits Joe, Biddy and their son, Pip Jr. Then in the ruins of Satis House he meets the widowed Estella, who asks Pip to forgive her, assuring him that misfortune has opened her heart. As Pip takes Estella's hand and they leave the moonlit ruins, he sees \"no shadow of another parting from her.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs Dickens began writing \"Great Expectations\", he undertook a series of hugely popular and remunerative reading tours. His domestic life had, however, disintegrated in the late 1850s and he had separated from his wife, Catherine Dickens, and was having a secret affair with the much younger Ellen Ternan. The introduction of the 1984 Penguin English Library edition suggests that the reluctance with which Ellen Ternan became his mistress is reflected in the icy teasing of Estella in \"Great Expectations\".\n\nIn his \"Book of Memoranda\", begun in 1855, Dickens wrote names for possible characters: Magwitch, Provis, Clarriker, Compey, Pumblechook, Orlick, Gargery, Wopsle, Skiffins, some of which became familiar in \"Great Expectations\". There is also a reference to a \"knowing man\", a possible sketch of Bentley Drummle. Another evokes a house full of \"Toadies and Humbugs\", foreshadowing the visitors to Satis House in chapter 11. Margaret Cardwell discovered the \"premonition\" of \"Great Expectations\" from a 25 September 1855 letter from Dickens to W. H. Wills, in which Dickens speaks of recycling an \"odd idea\" from the Christmas special \"A House to Let\" and \"the pivot round which my next book shall revolve.\" The \"odd idea\" concerns an individual who \"retires to an old lonely house…resolved to shut out the world and hold no communion with it.\"\n\nIn an 8 August 1860 letter to Thomas Carlyle, Dickens reported his agitation whenever he prepared a new book. A month later, in a letter to John Forster, Dickens announced that he just had a new idea.\n\nDickens was pleased with the idea, calling it \"such a very fine, new and grotesque idea\" in a letter to Forster. He planned to write \"a little piece\", a \"grotesque tragi-comic conception\", about a young hero who befriends an escaped convict, who then makes a fortune in Australia and anonymously bequeaths his property to the hero. In the end, the hero loses the money because it is forfeited to the Crown. In his biography of Dickens, Forster wrote that in the early idea \"was the germ of Pip and Magwitch, which at first he intended to make the groundwork of a tale in the old twenty-number form.\" Dickens presented the relationship between Pip and Magwitch pivotal to \"Great Expectations\" but without Miss Havisham, Estella, or other characters he later created.\n\nAs the idea and Dickens's ambition grew, he began writing. However, in September, the weekly \"All the Year Round\" saw its sales fall, and its flagship publication, \"A Day's Ride\" by Charles Lever, lost favour with the public. Dickens \"called a council of war\", and believed that to save the situation, \"the one thing to be done was for [him] to strike in.\" The \"very fine, new and grotesque idea\" became the magazine's new support: weeklies, five hundred pages, just over one year (1860–1861), thirty-six episodes, starting 1 December. The magazine continued to publish Lever's novel until its completion on 23 March 1861, but it became secondary to \"Great Expectations\". Immediately, sales resumed, and critics responded positively, as exemplified by \"The Times\"'s praise: \"\"Great Expectations\" is not, indeed, [Dickens's] best work, but it is to be ranked among his happiest.\"\n\nDickens, whose health was not the best, felt \"The planning from week to week was unimaginably difficult\" but persevered. He thought he had found \"a good name\", decided to use the first person \"throughout\", and thought the beginning was \"excessively droll\": \"I have put a child and a good-natured foolish man, in relations that seem to me very funny.\" Four weekly episodes were \"ground off the wheel\" in October 1860, and apart from one reference to the \"bondage\" of his heavy task, the months passed without the anguished cries that usually accompanied the writing of his novels. He did not even use the \"Number Plans\" or \"Mems\"; he only had a few notes on the characters' ages, the tide ranges for chapter 54, and the draft of an ending. In late December, Dickens wrote to Mary Boyle that \"\"Great Expectations\" [is] a very great success and universally liked.\"\nDickens gave six readings from 14 March to 18 April 1861, and in May, Dickens took a few days' holiday in Dover. On the eve of his departure, he took some friends and family members for a trip by boat from Blackwall to Southend-on-Sea. Ostensibly for pleasure, the mini-cruise was actually a working session for Dickens to examine banks of the river in preparation for the chapter devoted to Magwitch's attempt to escape. Dickens then revised Herbert Pocket's appearance, no doubt, asserts Margaret Cardwell, to look more like his son Charley. On 11 June 1861, Dickens wrote to Macready that \"Great Expectations\" had been completed and on 15 June, asked the editor to prepare the novel for publication.\n\nFollowing comments by Edward Bulwer-Lytton that the ending was too sad, Dickens rewrote it prior to publication. The ending set aside by Dickens has Pip, who is still single, briefly see Estella in London; after becoming Bentley Drummle's widow, she has remarried. It appealed to Dickens due to its originality: \"[the] winding up will be away from all such things as they conventionally go.\" Dickens revised the ending for publication so that Pip meets Estella in the ruins of Satis House, she is a widow and he is single. His changes at the conclusion of the novel did not quite end either with the final weekly part or the first bound edition, because Dickens further changed the last sentence in the amended 1868 version from \"I could see the shadow of no parting from her.\" to \"I saw no shadow of another parting from her\". As Pip uses litotes, \"no shadow of another parting\", it is ambiguous whether Pip and Estella marry or Pip remains single. Angus Calder, writing for an edition in the Penguin English Library, believed the less definite phrasing of the amended 1868 version perhaps hinted at a buried meaning: '...at this happy moment, I did not see the shadow of our subsequent parting looming over us.'\n\nIn a letter to Forster, Dickens explained his decision to alter the draft ending: \"You will be surprised to hear that I have changed the end of \"Great Expectations\" from and after Pip's return to Joe's ... Bulwer, who has been, as I think you know, extraordinarily taken with the book, strongly urged it upon me, after reading the proofs, and supported his views with such good reasons that I have resolved to make the change. I have put in as pretty a little piece of writing as I could, and I have no doubt the story will be more acceptable through the alteration.\"\n\nThis discussion between Dickens, Bulwer-Lytton and Forster has provided the basis for much discussion on Dickens's underlying views for this famous novel. Earle Davis, in his 1963 study of Dickens, wrote that \"it would be an inadequate moral point to deny Pip any reward after he had shown a growth of character,\" and that \"Eleven years might change Estella too.\" John Forster felt that the original ending was \"more consistent\" and \"more natural\" but noted the new ending's popularity. George Gissing called that revision \"a strange thing, indeed, to befall Dickens\" and felt that \"Great Expectations\" would have been perfect had Dickens not altered the ending in deference to Bulwer-Lytton.\n\nIn contrast, John Hillis-Miller stated that Dickens's personality was so assertive that Bulwer-Lytton had little influence, and welcomed the revision: \"The mists of infatuation have cleared away, [Estella and Pip] can be joined.\" Earl Davis notes that G B Shaw published the novel in 1937 for \"The Limited Editions Club\" with the first ending and that \"The Rhinehart Edition\" of 1979 presents both endings.\n\nGeorge Orwell wrote, \"Psychologically the latter part of \"Great Expectations\" is about the best thing Dickens ever did,\" but, like John Forster and several early 20th century writers, including George Bernard Shaw, felt that the original ending was more consistent with the draft, as well as the natural working out of the tale. Modern literary criticism is split over the matter.\n\nDickens and Wills co-owned \"All the Year Round\", one 75%, the other 25%. Since Dickens was his own publisher, he did not require a contract for his own works. Although intended for weekly publication, \"Great Expectations\" was divided into nine monthly sections, with new pagination for each. \"Harper's Weekly\" published the novel from 24 November 1860 to 5 August 1861 in the US and \"All the Year Round\" published it from 1 December 1860 to 3 August 1861 in the UK. \"Harper's\" paid £1,000 for publication rights. Dickens welcomed a contract with \"Tauchnitz\" 4 January 1861 for publication in English for the European continent.\n\nPublications in \"Harper's Weekly\" were accompanied by forty illustrations by John McLenan; however, this is the only Dickens work published in \"All the Year Round\" without illustrations.\n\nRobert L Patten identifies four American editions in 1861 and sees the proliferation of publications in Europe and across the Atlantic as \"extraordinary testimony\" to \"Great Expectations\"'s popularity. Chapman and Hall published the first edition in three volumes in 1861, five subsequent reprints between 6 July and 30 October, and a one-volume edition in 1862. The \"bargain\" edition was published in 1862, the Library Edition in 1864, and the Charles Dickens edition in 1868. To this list, Paul Schlicke adds \"two meticulous scholarly editions\", one Clarendon Press published in 1993 with an introduction by Margaret Cardwell and another with an introduction by Edgar Rosenberg, published by Norton in 1999. The novel was published with one ending, visible in the four on line editions listed in the External links at the end of this article. In some 20th century editions, the novel ends as originally published in 1867, and in an afterword, the ending Dickens did not publish, along with a brief story of how a friend persuaded him to a happier ending for Pip, is presented to the reader (for example, 1987 audio edition by Recorded Books).\n\nIn 1862, Marcus Stone, son of Dickens's old friend, the painter Frank Stone, was invited to create eight woodcuts for the Library Edition. According to Paul Schlicke, these illustrations are mediocre yet were included in the Charles Dickens edition, and Stone created illustrations for Dickens's subsequent novel, \"Our Mutual Friend\". Later, Henry Mathew Brock also illustrated \"Great Expectations\" and a 1935 edition of \"A Christmas Carol\", along with other artists, such as John McLenan, F. A. Fraser, and Harry Furniss.\n\nRobert L. Patten estimates that \"All the Year Round\" sold 100,000 copies of \"Great Expectations\" each week, and Mudie, the largest circulating library, which purchased about 1,400 copies, stated that at least 30 people read each copy. Aside from the dramatic plot, the Dickensian humour also appealed to readers. Dickens wrote to Forster in October 1860 that \"You will not have to complain of the want of humour as in the \"Tale of Two Cities\",\" an opinion Forster supports, finding that \"Dickens's humour, not less than his creative power, was at its best in this book.\" Moreover, according to Paul Schlicke, readers found the best of Dickens's older and newer writing styles.\n\nOverall, \"Great Expectations\" received near universal acclaim. Not all reviews were favourable, however; Margaret Oliphant's review, published May 1862 in \"Blackwood's Magazine\", vilified the novel. Critics in the 19th and 20th centuries hailed it as one of Dickens's greatest successes although often for conflicting reasons: GK Chesterton admired the novel's optimism; Edmund Wilson its pessimism; Humphry House in 1941 emphasized its social context. In 1974, Jerome H. Buckley saw it as a bildungsroman, writing a chapter on Dickens and two of his major protagonists (David Copperfield and Pip) in his 1974 book on the Bildungsroman in Victorian writing. John Hillis Miller wrote in 1958 that Pip is the archetype of all Dickensian heroes. In 1970, QD Leavis suggests \"How We Must Read \"Great Expectations\".\" In 1984, Peter Brooks, in the wake of Jacques Derrida, offered a deconstructionist reading. The most profound analyst, according to Paul Schlicke, is probably Julian Moynahan, who, in a 1964 essay surveying the hero's guilt, made Orlick \"Pip's double, alter ego and dark mirror image.\" Schlicke also names Anny Sadrin's extensive 1988 study as the \"most distinguished.\"\n\n\"Great Expectations\"s single most obvious literary predecessor is Dickens's earlier first-person narrator-protagonist \"David Copperfield\". The two novels trace the psychological and moral development of a young boy to maturity, his transition from a rural environment to the London metropolis, the vicissitudes of his emotional development, and the exhibition of his hopes and youthful dreams and their metamorphosis, through a rich and complex first person narrative. Dickens was conscious of this similarity and, before undertaking his new manuscript, reread \"David Copperfield\" to avoid repetition.\n\nThe two books both detail homecoming. Although \"David Copperfield\" is based on much of Dickens personal experiences, \"Great Expectations\" provides, according to Paul Schlicke, \"the more spiritual and intimate autobiography.\" Even though several elements hint at the setting – Miss Havisham, partly inspired by a Parisian duchess, whose residence was always closed and in darkness, surrounded by \"a dead green vegetable sea\", recalling Satis House, and the countryside bordering Chatham and Rochester – no place name is mentioned, nor a specific time period, which is indicated by, among other elements, older coaches, the title \"His Majesty\" in reference to George III, and the old London Bridge prior to the 1824–1831 reconstruction.\n\nThe theme of homecoming reflects events in Dickens's life, several years prior to the publication of \"Great Expectations\". In 1856, he bought Gad's Hill Place in Higham, Kent, which he had dreamed of living in as a child, and moved there from faraway London two years later. In 1858, in a painful divorce, he separated from Catherine Dickens, his wife of twenty-three years. The divorce alienated him from some of his closest friends, such as Mark Lemon. He quarrelled with Bradbury and Evans, who had published his novels for fifteen years. In early September 1860, in a field behind Gad's Hill, Dickens burned almost all of his correspondence, sparing only letters on business matters. He stopped publishing the weekly \"Household Words\" at the summit of its popularity and replaced it with \"All the Year Round\".\n\n\"The Uncommercial Traveller\", short stories, and other texts Dickens began publishing in his new weekly in 1859 reflect his nostalgia, as seen in \"Dullborough Town\" and \"Nurses' Stories\". According to Paul Schlicke, \"it is hardly surprising that the novel Dickens wrote at this time was a return to roots, set in the part of England in which he grew up, and in which he had recently resettled.\"\n\nMargaret Cardwell draws attention to Chops the Dwarf from Dickens's 1858 Christmas story \"Going into Society\", who, as the future Pip does, entertains the illusion of inheriting a fortune and becomes disappointed upon achieving his social ambitions. In another vein, Harry Stone thinks that Gothic and magical aspects of \"Great Expectations\" were partly inspired by Charles Mathews's \"At Home\", which was presented in detail in \"Household Words\" and its monthly supplement \"Household Narrative\". Stone also asserts that \"The Lazy Tour of Two Idle Apprentices\", written in collaboration with Wilkie Collins after their walking tour of Cumberland during September 1857 and published in \"Household Words\" from 3 to 31 October of the same year, presents certain strange locations and a passionate love, foreshadowing \"Great Expectations\".\n\nBeyond its biographical and literary aspects, \"Great Expectations\" appears, according to Robin Gilmour, as \"a representative fable of the age\". Dickens was aware that the novel \"speaks\" to a generation applying, at most, the principle of \"self help\" which was believed to have increased the order of daily life. That the hero Pip aspires to improve, not through snobbery, but through the Victorian conviction of education, social refinement, and materialism, was seen as a noble and worthy goal. However, by tracing the origins of Pip's \"great expectations\" to crime, deceit and even banishment to the colonies, Dickens unfavourably compares the new generation to the previous one of Joe Gargery, which Dickens portrays as less sophisticated but especially rooted in sound values, presenting an oblique criticism of his time.\n\nThe narrative structure of \"Great Expectations\" is influenced by the fact that it was first published as weekly episodes in a periodical. This required short chapters, centred on a single subject, and an almost mathematical structure.\n\nPip's story is told in three stages: his childhood and early youth in Kent, where he dreams of rising above his humble station; his time in London after receiving \"great expectations\"; and then finally his disillusionment on discovering the source of his fortune, followed by his slow realisation of the vanity of his false values. These three stages are further divided into twelve parts of equal length. This symmetry contributes to the impression of completion, which has often been commented on. George Gissing, for example, when comparing Joe Gargery and Dan'l Peggotty (from \"David Copperfield\"), preferred the former, because he is a stronger character, who lives \"in a world, not of melodrama, but of everyday cause and effect.\" G. B. Shaw also commented on the novel's structure, describing it as \"compactly perfect\", and Algernon Swinburne stated, \"The defects in it are as nearly imperceptible as spots on the sun or shadow on a sunlit sea.\" A contributing factor is \"the briskness of the narrative tone.\"\n\nFurther, beyond the chronological sequences and the weaving of several storylines into a tight plot, the sentimental setting and morality of the characters also create a pattern. The narrative structure of \"Great Expectations\" has two main elements: firstly that of \"foster parents\", Miss Havisham, Magwitch, and Joe, and secondly that of \"young people\", Estella, Pip and Biddy. There is a further organizing element that can be labelled \"Dangerous Lovers\", which includes Compeyson, Bentley Drummle and Orlick. Pip is the centre of this web of love, rejection and hatred. Dickens contrasts this \"dangerous love\" with the relationship of Biddy and Joe, which grows from friendship to marriage.\n\nThis is \"the general frame of the novel\". The term \"love\" is generic, applying it to both Pip's true love for Estella and the feelings Estella has for Drummle, which are based on a desire for social advancement. Similarly, Estella rejects Magwitch because of her contempt for everything that appears below what she believes to be her social status.\n\n\"Great Expectations\" has an unhappy ending, since most characters suffer physically, psychologically or both, or die—often violently—while suffering. Happy resolutions remain elusive, while hate thrives. The only happy ending is Biddy and Joe's marriage and the birth of their two children, since the final reconciliations, except that between Pip and Magwitch, do not alter the general order. Though Pip extirpates the web of hatred, the first unpublished ending denies him happiness while Dickens' revised second ending, in the published novel, leaves his future uncertain.\n\nJulian Monayhan argues that the reader can better understand Pip's personality through analyzing his relationship with Orlick, the criminal laborer who works at Joe Gargery's forge, than by looking at his relationship with Magwitch.\nFollowing Monayhan, David Trotter notes that Orlick is Pip's shadow. Co-workers in the forge, both find themselves at Miss Havisham's, where Pip enters and joins the company, while Orlick, attending the door, stays out. Pip considers Biddy a sister; Orlick has other plans for her; Pip is connected to Magwitch, Orlick to Magwitch's nemesis, Compeyson. Orlick also aspires to \"great expectations\" and resents Pip's ascension from the forge and the swamp to the glamour of Satis House, from which Orlick is excluded, along with London's dazzling society. Orlick is the cumbersome shadow Pip cannot remove.\n\nThen comes Pip's punishment, with Orlick's savage attack on Mrs Gargery. Thereafter Orlick vanishes, only to reappear in chapter 53 in a symbolic act, when he lures Pip into a locked, abandoned building in the marshes. Orlick has a score to settle before going on to the ultimate act, murder. However, Pip hampers Orlick, because of his privileged status, while Orlick remains a slave of his condition, solely responsible for Mrs Gargery's fate.\n\nDickens also uses Pip's upper class counterpart, Bentley Drummle, \"the double of a double\", according to Trotter, in a similar way. Like Orlick, Drummle is powerful, swarthy, unintelligible, hot-blooded, and lounges and lurks, biding his time. Estella rejects Pip for this rude, uncouth but well-born man, and ends Pip's hope. Finally the lives of both Orlick and Drummle end violently.\n\nAlthough the novel is written in first person, the reader knows—as an essential prerequisite—that \"Great Expectations\" is not an autobiography but a novel, a work of fiction with plot and characters, featuring a narrator-protagonist. In addition, Sylvère Monod notes that the treatment of the autobiography differs from \"David Copperfield\", as \"Great Expectations\" does not draw from events in Dickens's life; \"at most some traces of a broad psychological and moral introspection can be found\".\n\nHowever, according to Paul Pickerel's analysis, Pip—as both narrator and protagonist—recounts with hindsight the story of the young boy he was, who did not know the world beyond a narrow geographic and familial environment. The novel's direction emerges from the confrontation between the two periods of time. At first, the novel presents a mistreated orphan, repeating situations from \"Oliver Twist\" and \"David Copperfield\", but the trope is quickly overtaken. The theme manifests itself when Pip discovers the existence of a world beyond the marsh, the forge and the future Joe envisioned for him, the decisive moment when Miss Havisham and Estella enter his life. This is a red herring, as the decay of Satis House and the strange lady within signals the fragility of an impasse. At this point, the reader knows more than the protagonist, creating dramatic irony that confers a superiority that the narrator shares.\n\nIt is not until Magwitch's return, a plot twist that unites loosely connected plot elements and sets them into motion, that the protagonist's point of view joins those of the narrator and the reader. In this context of progressive revelation, the sensational events at the novel's end serve to test the protagonist's point of view. Thus proceeds, in the words of A E Dyson, \"The Immolations of Pip\".\n\nAmongst the narrative devices that Dickens uses, according to Earle Davis, are caricature, comic speech mannerisms, intrigue, Gothic atmosphere, and a central character who gradually changes. Davis also mentions the close network of the structure and balance of contrasts, and praises the first-person narration for providing a simplicity that is appropriate for the story while avoiding melodrama. Davis sees the symbolism attached to \"great expectations\" as reinforcing the novel's impact.\n\n\"Great Expectations\" contains the elements of a variety of different literary genres, including the bildungsroman, gothic novel, crime novel, as well as comedy, melodrama and satire; and it belongs—like \"Wuthering Heights\" and the novels of Walter Scott—to the romance rather than realist tradition of the novel.\n\nComplex and multifaceted, \"Great Expectations\" is a Victorian \"bildungsroman\", a German literary genre from the eighteenth century, also called an initiatory tale. This genre focuses on a protagonist who matures over the course of the novel. \"Great Expectations\" describes Pip's initial frustration upon leaving home, followed by a long and difficult period where he gradually matures. This period in his life is punctuated with conflicts between his desires and the values of established order, that allow him to re-evaluate his life and therefore re-enter society on new foundations.\n\nHowever, if viewed as a primarily retrospective first-person narrative, the novel differs from the two preceding pseudo-autobiographies, \"David Copperfield\" and though only partially narrated in first-person, \"Bleak House\" (1852), as it falls within several subgenres popular in Dickens' time, as noted by Paul Davis and Philip V. Allingham.\n\n\"Great Expectations\" contains many comic scenes and eccentric personalities, which play an integral part in both the plot and the theme. Among the notable comic episodes are Pip's Christmas dinner in chapter 4, Wopsle's \"Hamlet\" performance in chapter 31, and Wemmick's marriage in chapter 55. Many of the characters have eccentricities: Jaggers with his punctillious lawyerly ways; the contrariness of his clerk, Wemmick, at work advising Pip to invest in \"portable property\", while in private living in a cottage converted into a castle; and the reclusive Miss Havisham in her decaying mansion, wearing her tattered bridal robes.\n\n\"Great Expectations\" incorporates elements of the new genre of crime fiction, which Dickens had already used in \"Oliver Twist\" (1837), and which was being developed by his friends Wilkie Collins and William Harrison Ainsworth. With its scenes of convicts, prison ships, and episodes of bloody violence, Dickens creates characters worthy of the Newgate school of fiction.\n\n\"Great Expectations\" contains elements of the Gothic genre, especially with Miss Havisham, the bride frozen in time, and the ruins of Satis House filled with weeds and spiders. Other characters that can be linked to this genre include the aristocratic Bentley Drummle, because of his extreme cruelty, Pip himself, who spends his youth chasing a frozen beauty, the monstrous Orlick, who systematically attempts to murder his employers. Then there is the fight to the death between Compeyson and Magwitch, and the fire that ends up killing Miss Havisham, scenes that are dominated by horror, suspense, and the sensational, such as are found in gothic novels.\n\nElements of the silver fork novel are found in the character of Miss Havisham and her world, as well as Pip's illusions. This genre, which flourished in the 1820s and 1830s, presents the flashy elegance and aesthetic frivolities found in high society. In some respects, Dickens conceived \"Great Expectations\" as an anti silver fork novel, attacking Charles Lever's novel \"A Day's Ride\", publication of which began January 1860, in \"Household Words\". This can be seen in the way that Dickens satirises the pretensions and morals of Miss Havisham and her sycophants, including the Pockets (except Matthew), and Uncle Pumblechook.\n\nThough \"Great Expectations\" is not obviously a historical novel Dickens does emphasise differences between the time that the novel is set (c. 1812–46) and when it was written (1860–1).\n\n\"Great Expectations\" begins around 1812 (the date of Dickens' birth), continues until around 1830–1835, and then jumps to around 1840–1845, during which the Great Western Railway was built. Though readers today will not notice this, Dickens uses various things to emphasise the differences between 1861 and this earlier period. Among these details—that contemporary readers would have recognised—are the one pound note (in chapter 10) that the Bank Notes Act 1826 had removed from circulation; likewise, the death penalty for deported felons who returned to Britain was abolished in 1835. The gallows erected in the swamps, designed to display a rotting corpse, had disappeared by 1832, and George III, the monarch mentioned at the beginning, died in 1820, when Pip would have been seven or eight. Miss Havisham paid Joe 25 guineas, gold coins, when Pip was to begin his apprenticeship (in chapter 13); guinea coins were slowly going out of circulation after the last new ones were struck with the face of George III in 1799. This also marks the historical period, as the one pound note was the official currency at the time of the novel's publication. Dickens placed the epilogue 11 years after Magwitch's death, which seems to be the time limit of the reported facts. Collectively, the details suggest that Dickens identified with the main character. If Pip is around 23 toward the middle of the novel and 34 at its end, he is roughly modeled after his creator who turned 34 in 1846.\n\nThe title's \"Expectations\" refers to \"a legacy to come\", and thus immediately announces that money, or more specifically wealth plays an important part in the novel. Some other major themes are crime, social class, including both gentility, and social alienation, imperialism and ambition. The novel is also concerned with questions relating to conscience and moral regeneration, as well as redemption through love.\n\nDickens famously created comic and telling names for his characters, but in \"Great Expectations\" he goes further. The first sentence of the novel establishes that Pip's proper name is Philip Pirrip, which \"my infant tongue could make of both names nothing longer or more explicit than Pip.\" The name Philip Pirrip (or Pirrip) is never again used in the novel to refer to Pip, but exclusively to the exact wording of his father's gravestone. In Chapter 18, when he receives his expectation from an anonymous benefactor, the first condition attached to it is \"that you always bear the name of Pip.\" \n\nIn Chapter 22, when Pip establishes his friendship with Herbert Pocket, he attempts to introduce himself as Philip. Herbert immediately rejects the name (\"'I don't take to Philip,' said he, smiling, 'for it sounds like a moral boy out of the spelling-book'\") and decides to refer to Pip exclusively as Handel (\"'Would you mind Handel for a familiar name? There's a charming piece of music by Handel, called the Harmonious Blacksmith.'\"). The only other place he is referred to as Philip is in Chapter 44, when he receives a letter addressed to \"Philip Pip\" from his friend Wemmick, which says \"DON'T GO HOME\". Pip's name throughout binds him to his origins.\n\nA central theme here, as in other of Dickens's novels, is of people living as social outcasts. The novel opening emphasises this in the case of the orphaned Pip, who lives in an isolated foggy environment next to a graveyard, dangerous swamps, and prison ships. His very existence reproaches him: \"I was always treated as if I had insisted on being born in opposition to the dictates of reason, religion and morality\".\n\nPip feels excluded by society and this leads to his aggressive attitude towards it, as he tries to win his place within society through any means. Various other characters behave similarly—that is, the oppressed become the oppressors. Jaggers dominates Wemmick, who in turn dominates Jaggers's clients. Likewise, Magwitch uses Pip as an instrument of vengeance, as Miss Havisham also uses Estella.\n\nHowever, hope exists despite Pip's sense of exclusion because he is convinced that divine providence owes him a place in society and that marriage to Estella is his destiny. Therefore, when fortune comes his way, Pip shows no surprise, because he believes, that his value as a human being, and his inherent nobility, have been recognized. Thus Pip accepts Pumblechook's flattery without blinking: \"That boy is no common boy\" and the \"May I? \"May\" I?\" associated with handshakes.\n\nFrom Pip's hope comes his \"uncontrollable, impossible love for Estella\", despite the humiliations to which she has subjected him. For Pip, winning a place in society also means winning Estella's heart.\n\nWhen the money secretly provided by Magwitch enables Pip to enter London society, two new related themes, wealth and gentility, are introduced.\n\nAs the novel's title implies money is a theme of \"Great Expectations\". Central to this is the idea that wealth is only acceptable to the ruling class if it comes from the labour of others. Miss Havisham's wealth comes not from the sweat of her brow but from rent collected on properties she inherited from her father, a brewer. Her wealth is \"pure\", and her father's profession as a brewer does not contaminate it. Herbert states in chapter 22 that \"while you cannot possibly be genteel and bake, you may be as genteel as never was and brew.\" Because of her wealth, the old lady, despite her eccentricity, enjoys public esteem. She remains in a constant business relationship with her lawyer Jaggers and keeps a tight grip over her \"court\" of sycophants, so that, far from representing social exclusion, she is the very image of a powerful landed aristocracy that is frozen in the past and \"embalmed in its own pride\".\n\nOn the other hand, Magwitch's wealth is socially unacceptable, firstly because he earned it, not through the efforts of others, but through his own hard work, and secondly because he was a convict, and he earned it in a penal colony. It is argued that the contrast with Miss Havisham's wealth is suggested symbolically. Thus Magwitch's money smells of sweat, and his money is greasy and crumpled: \"two fat sweltering one-pound notes that seemed to have been on terms of the warmest intimacy with all the cattle market in the country\", while the coins Miss Havisham gives for Pip's \"indentures\" shine as if new. Further, it is argued Pip demonstrates his \"good breeding\", because when he discovers that he owes his transformation into a \"gentleman\" to such a contaminated windfall, he is repulsed in horror. A. O. J. Cockshut, however, has suggested that there is no difference between Magwitch's wealth and that of Miss Havisham's.\n\nTrotter emphasizes the importance of Magwitch's greasy banknotes. Beyond the Pip's emotional reaction the notes reveal that Dickens' views on social and economic progress have changed in the years prior to the publication of \"Great Expectations\". His novels and \"Household Words\" extensively reflect Dickens' views, and, his efforts to contribute to social progress expanded in the 1840s. To illustrate his point, he cites Humphry House who, succinctly, writes that in \"Pickwick Papers\", \"a bad smell was a bad smell\", whereas in \"Our Mutual Friend\" and \"Great Expectations\", \"it is a problem\".\nAt the time of The Great Exhibition of 1851, Dickens and Richard Henry Horne an editor of \"Household Words\" wrote an article comparing the British technology that created The Crystal Palace to the few artifacts exhibited by China: England represented an openness to worldwide trade and China isolationism. \"To compare China and England is to compare Stoppage to Progress\", they concluded. According to Trotter, this was a way to target the Tory government's return to protectionism, which they felt would make England the China of Europe. In fact, \"Household Words\"' 17 May 1856 issue, championed international free trade, comparing the constant flow of money to the circulation of the blood. Back in the 1850s, Dickens believed in \"genuine\" wealth, which critic Trotter compares to fresh banknotes, crisp to the touch, pure and odorless.\n\nWith \"Great Expectations\", Dickens's views about wealth have changed. However, though some sharp satire exists, no character in the novel has the role of the moralist that condemn Pip and his society. In fact, even Joe and Biddy themselves, paragons of good sense, are complicit, through their exaggerated innate humility, in Pip's social deviancy. Dickens' moral judgement is first made through the way that he contrasts characters: only a few characters keep to the straight and narrow path; Joe, whose values remain unchanged; Matthew Pocket whose pride renders him, to his family's astonishment, unable to flatter his rich relatives; Jaggers, who keeps a cool head and has no illusions about his clients; Biddy, who overcomes her shyness to, from time to time, bring order. The narrator-hero is left to draw the necessary conclusions: in the end, Pip finds the light and embarks on a path of moral regeneration.\n\nIn London, neither wealth nor gentility brings happiness. Pip, the apprentice gentleman constantly bemoans his anxiety, his feelings of insecurity, and multiple allusions to overwhelming chronic unease, to weariness, drown his enthusiasm (chapter 34). Wealth, in effect, eludes his control: the more he spends, the deeper he goes into debt to satisfy new needs, which were just as futile as his old ones. His unusual path to gentility has the opposite effect to what he expected: infinite opportunities become available, certainly, but will power, in proportion, fades and paralyses the soul. In the crowded metropolis, Pip grows disenchanted, disillusioned, and lonely. Alienated from his native Kent, he has lost the support provided by the village blacksmith. In London, he is powerless to join a community, not the Pocket family, much less Jaggers's circle. London has become Pip's prison and, like the convicts of his youth, he is bound in chains: \"no Satis House can be built merely with money\".\n\nThe idea of \"good breeding\" and what makes for a \"gentleman\" other than money. in other words \"gentility\", is a central theme of \"Great Expectations\". The convict Magwitch covets it by proxy through Pip; Mrs Pocket dreams of acquiring it; it is also found in Pumblechook's sycophancy; it is even seen in Joe, when he stammers between \"Pip\" and \"Sir\" during his visit to London, and when Biddy's letters to Pip suddenly become reverent.\n\nThere are other characters who are associated with the idea of gentility like, for example, Miss Havisham's seducer, Compeyson, the scarred-face convict. While Compeyson is corrupt, even Magwitch does not forget he is a gentleman. This also includes Estella, who ignores the fact that she is the daughter of Magwitch and another criminal.\n\nThere are a couple of ways by which someone can acquire gentility, one being a title, another family ties to the upper middle class. Mrs Pocket bases every aspiration on the fact that her grandfather failed to be knighted, while Pip hopes that Miss Havisham will eventually adopt him, as adoption, as evidenced by Estella, who behaves like a born and bred little lady, is acceptable. But even more important, though not sufficient, are wealth and education. Pip knows that and endorses it, as he hears from Jaggers through Matthew Pocket: \"I was not designed for any profession, and I should be well enough educated for my destiny if I could hold my own with the average of young men in prosperous circumstances\". But neither the educated Matthew Pocket, nor Jaggers, who has earned his status solely through his intellect, can aspire to gentility. Bentley Drummle, however, embodies the social ideal, so that Estella marries him without hesitation.\n\nAnother theme of \"Great Expectations\" is that Pip can undergo \"moral regeneration.\"\n\nIn chapter 39, the novel's turning point, Magwitch visits Pip to see the gentleman he has made, and once the convict has hidden in Herbert Pocket's room, Pip realises his situation:\n\nTo cope with his situation and his learning that he now needs Magwitch, a hunted, injured man who traded his life for Pip's. Pip can only rely on the power of love for Estella Pip now goes through a number of different stages each of which, is accompanied by successive realisations about the vanity of the prior certainties.\nPip's problem is more psychological and moral than social. Pip's climbing of the social ladder upon gaining wealth is followed by a corresponding degradation of his integrity. Thus after his first visit in Miss Havisham, the innocent young boy from the marshes, suddenly turns into a liar to dazzle his sister, Mrs Joe, and his Uncle Pumblechook with the tales of a carriage and veal chops. More disturbing is his fascination with Satis House –where he is despised and even slapped, beset by ghostly visions, rejected by the Pockets– and the gradual growth of the mirage of London. The allure of wealth overpowers loyalty and gratitude, even conscience itself. This is evidenced by the urge to buy Joe's return, in chapter 27, Pip's haughty glance as Joe deciphers the alphabet, not to mention the condescending contempt he confesses to Biddy, copying Estella's behaviour toward him.\nPip represents, as do those he mimics, the bankruptcy of the \"idea of the gentleman\", and becomes the sole beneficiary of vulgarity, inversely proportional to his mounting gentility. In chapter 30, Dickens parodies the new disease that is corroding Pip's moral values through the character \"Trabb's boy\", who is the only one not to be fooled. The boy parades through the main street of the village with boyish antics and contortions meant to satirically imitate Pip. The gross, comic caricature openly exposes the hypocrisy of this \"new\" gentleman in a frock coat and top hat. Trabb's boy reveals that appearance has taken precedence over being, protocol on feelings, decorum on authenticity; labels reign to the point of absurdity, and human solidarity is no longer the order of the day.\nEstella and Miss Havisham represent rich people who enjoy a materially easier life but cannot cope with a tougher reality. Miss Havisham, like a melodramatic heroine, withdrew from life at the first sign of hardship. Estella, excessively spoiled and pampered, sorely lacks judgement and falls prey to the first gentleman who approaches her, though he is the worst. Estella's marriage to such a brute demonstrates the failure of her education. Estella is used to dominating but becomes a victim to her own vice, brought to her level by a man born, in her image.\n\nDickens uses imagery to reinforce his ideas and London, the paradise of the rich and of the \"ideal\" of the gentleman, has mounds of filth, it is crooked, decrepit, and greasy, a dark desert of bricks, soot, rain, and fog. The surviving vegetation is stunted, and confined to fenced-off paths, without air or light. Barnard's Inn, where Pip lodges, offers mediocre food and service while the rooms, despite the furnishing provided, as Suhamy states, \"for the money\", is most uncomfortable, a far cry from Joe's large kitchen, radiating hearth, and his well-stocked pantry.\n\nLikewise, such a world, dominated by the lure of money and social prejudice, also leads to the warping of people and morals, to family discord and war between man and woman. In contrast to London's corruption stands Joe, despite his intellectual and social limitations, in whom the values of the heart prevail and who has natural wisdom.\n\nAnother important theme is Pip's sense of guilt, which he has felt from an early age. After the encounter with the convict Magwitch, Pip is afraid that someone will find out about his crime and arrest him. The theme of guilt comes into even greater effect when Pip discovers that his benefactor is a convict. Pip has an internal struggle with his conscience throughout \"Great Expectations\", hence the long and painful process of redemption that he undergoes.\n\nPip's moral regeneration is a true pilgrimage punctuated by suffering. Like Christian in Bunyan's \"The Pilgrim's Progress\", Pip makes his way up to light through a maze of horrors that afflict his body as well as his mind. This includes the burns he suffers from saving Miss Havisham from the fire; the illness that requires months of recovery; the threat of a violent death at Orlick's hands; debt, and worse, the obligation of having to repay them; hard work, which he recognises as the only worthy source of income, hence his return to Joe's forge. Even more important, is his accepting of Magwitch, a coarse outcast of society.\n\nDickens makes use of symbolism, in chapter 53, to emphasise Pip's moral regeneration. As he prepares to go down the Thames to rescue the convict, a veil lifted from the river and Pip's spirit. Symbolically the fog which enveloped the marshes as Pip left for London has finally lifted, and he feels ready to become a man.\n\nPip is redeemed by love, that, for Dickens as for generations of Christian moralists, is only acquired through sacrifice. Pip's reluctance completely disappears and he embraces Magwitch. After this, Pip's loyalty remains foolproof, during imprisonment, trial, and death of the convict. He grows selfless and his \"expectations\" are confiscated by the Crown. Moments before Magwitch's death, Pip reveals that Estella, Magwitch's daughter, is alive, \"a lady and very beautiful. And I love her\". Here the greatest sacrifice: the recognition that he owes everything, even Estella, to Magwitch; his new debt becomes his greatest freedom.\n\nPip returns to the forge, his previous state and to meaningful work. The philosophy expressed here by Dickens that of a person happy with their contribution to the welfare of society, is in line with Thomas Carlyle's theories and his condemnation, in \"Latter-Day Pamphlets\" (1850), the system of social classes flourishing in idleness, much like Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels did. Dickens' hero is neither an aristocrat nor a capitalist but a working-class boy.\n\nIn \"Great Expectations\", the true values are childhood, youth, and heart. The heroes of the story are the young Pip, a true visionary, and still developing person, open, sensible, who is persecuted by soulless adults. Then the adolescent Pip and Herbert, imperfect but free, intact, playful, endowed with fantasy in a boring and frivolous world. Magwitch is also a positive figure, a man of heart, victim of false appearances and of social images, formidable and humble, bestial but pure, a vagabond of God, despised by men. There is also Pip's affectional friend Joe, the enemy of the lie. Finally, there are women like Biddy.\n\nEdward W. Said, in his 1993 work \"Culture and Imperialism\", interprets \"Great Expectations\" in terms of postcolonial theory about of late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries British imperialism. Pip's disillusionment when he learns his benefactor is an escaped convict from Australia, along with his acceptance of Magwitch as surrogate father, is described by Said as part of \"the imperial process\", that is the way colonialism exploits the weaker members of a society. Thus the British trading post in Cairo legitimatises Pip's work as a clerk, but the money earned by Magwitch's honest labour is illegitimate, because Australia is a penal colony, and Magwitch is forbidden to return to Britain. Said states that Dickens has Magwitch return to be redeemed by Pip's love, paving the way for Pip's own redemption, but despite this moral message, the book still reinforces standards that support the authority of the British empire. Said's interpretation suggests that Dickens' attitude backs Britain's exploitation of Middle East \"through trade and travel\", and that \"Great Expectations\" affirms the idea of keeping the Empire and its peoples in their place—at the exploitable margins of British society.\n\nHowever, the novel's Gothic, and Romance genre elements, challenge Said's assumption that \"Great Expectations\" is a realist novel like Daniel Defoe's \"Robinson Crusoe\".\n\nDickens's novel has influenced a number of writers, Sue Roe's \"Estella: Her Expectations\" (1982), for example explores the inner life of an Estella fascinated with a Havisham figure. Miss Havisham is again important in \"Havisham: A Novel\" (2013), a book by Ronald Frame, that features an imagining of the life of Miss Catherine Havisham from childhood to adulthood. The second chapter of Rosalind Ashe's \"Literary Houses\" (1982) paraphrases Miss Havisham's story with details about the nature and structure of Satis House and coloured imaginings of the house within. Miss Havisham is also central to \"Lost in a Good Book\" (2002), Jasper Fforde's alternate history, fantasy novel, which features a parody of Miss Havisham. It won the Independent Mystery Booksellers Association 2004 Dilys Award.\n\nMagwitch is the protagonist of Peter Carey's \"Jack Maggs\", which is a re-imagining of Magwitch's return to England, with the addition, among other things, of a fictionalised Dickens character and plot-line. Carey's novel won the Commonwealth Writers Prize in 1998. \"Mister Pip\" (2006) is a novel by Lloyd Jones, a New Zealand author. The winner of the 2007 Commonwealth Writers' Prize, Lloyd Jones's novel is set in a village on the Papua New Guinea island of Bougainville during a brutal civil war there in the 1990s, where the young protagonist's life is impacted in a major way by her reading of \"Great Expectations\".\n\nLike many other Dickens novels, \"Great Expectations\" has been filmed for the cinema or television and adapted for the stage numerous times. The film adaptation in 1946 gained the greatest acclaim. The story is often staged, and less often produced as a musical. The 1939 stage play and the 1946 film that followed from that stage production did not include the character Orlick and ends the story when the characters are still young adults. That character has been excluded in many televised adaptations made since the 1946 movie by David Lean. Following are highlights of the adaptations for film and television, and for the stage, since the early 20th century.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "464734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464734", "title": "Gumboot Day", "text": "Gumboot Day\n\nGumboot Day is a native celebration of Taihape, New Zealand. It occurs the Tuesday after Easter, and has been a regular event since 1985. It is a celebration of all things to do with gumboots, and includes the famous gumboot throwing contest.\n\nThe aim of the festival is to break the world record for the longest gumboot throw. It is a family event, which includes a number of other competitions such as the best-dressed gumboot and ‘shoot the loop’ with gumboots. Gumboots can also be tossed skyward on any day of the year in the official Gumboot throwing lane located in the 'Outback', just behind Taihape's main shopping centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13768122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13768122", "title": "Hana Hou!", "text": "Hana Hou!\n\nHana Hou! is an American bi-monthly English language inflight magazine. It is published for Hawaiian Airlines by Honolulu-based Pacific Travelogue Inc.\n\n\"Hana Hou!\" (which means \"encore!\" in the Hawaiian language) includes feature stories, interviews, travelogues and profiles, and ‘Best of the Islands’ and ‘Native Intelligence’ sections.\n\nThe awards which the magazine has received include two in 2007 from the Hawaiian chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists.\n\n\"Hana Hou!\" maintains extensive archives which include back issues going back as far as 2002 (Volume 5) on its website. While complimentary copies are provided on all Hawaiian Airlines flights, the magazine is also marketed at newsstands in Hawaii and by subscription.\n"}
{"id": "32705940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32705940", "title": "ISO/IEC 19788", "text": "ISO/IEC 19788\n\nISO/IEC 19788 \"Information technology – Learning, education and training – Metadata for learning resources\" is a multi-part standard prepared by subcommittee SC36 of the Joint Technical Committee ISO/IEC JTC1, Information Technology for Learning, Education and Training.\nThis committee was created to deal with the consequences of substantial overlap in areas of standardization done at the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International Electrotechnical Commission.\n\nThe ISO 15836 Dublin Core (DC) and the IEEE 1484.12.1-2002 Learning Object Metadata (LOM) are widely used to describe learning resources. However, interoperability among DC data sets is challenging, as best practices are only recommended. Instead of using ISO 8601, a DC Date element can be written in plain language and not processed by queries. Ambiguous definitions pose another challenge as data elements and vocabulary values can be interpreted in a subjective way. For example, the DC Date can be linked to resource creation time, update or publication. In the LOM, the Cost element can only have a “yes” or “no” values. This is also true for LOM records as they are based on a wide variety of Application profiles.\nThe ISO/IEC 19788 standard is intended to provide optimal compatibility with both DC and the LOM and supports multilingual and cultural adaptability requirements from a global perspective. The standard has two primary purposes:\n\nTo avoid ambiguity and provide interoperability, metadata learning resources (MLR) data elements are documented using attributes.\nThe Resource Description Framework is a method for conceptual description of metadata information. Assertions about a learning resource are made using triples (subject, predicate, object) where \"subject\" represents the learning resource, \"predicate\" is a property identifier and \"object\" is the property value.\nIn a MLR triple, the \"subject\" is always the literal of an identifier of the learning resource, such as a URI or ISBN. The \"predicate\" is also a literal, the MLR data element specification (DES) identifier. For example, \"ISO_IEC_19788-2:2011::DES0100\" tells us that this DES can be found in part 2 of the standard and DES0100 is the data element used to identify the title of the learning resource. Finally, the \"object\" can be a literal (in this example, the book title) or a resource class (a set of accepted values, such as a list of terms identifiers from a controlled vocabulary list).\n\nComputers can easily connect and query linked data structured information. For example, a teacher wishing to annotate a learning resource may do it a single RDFa triple. A repository service could gather all the information about a given learning resource from a wide variety of external sources, providing much richer information than a single provider record.\n\nProvides principles, rules and structures for the specification of the description of a learning resource\n\nProvides a based level made of the 15 data element set for the description of learning resources, from the \"ISO 15836:2009 The Dublin Core metadata element set\", using the framework provided in Part 1.\n\nSpecifies, through adding constraints to the use of some data elements, how the ISO/IEC 19788-2 element set can be used as a starting point for adopting the ISO/IEC 19788 standard.\n\nPart 3 promotes interoperability among repositories. It is expected that users communities will enhance this application profile by adding data elements from other authorities such as IEEE-LOM and Dublin Core extension and by adding vocabulary constrains.\n\nFuture editions of this part will likely include additional data element from Parts 4 and beyond such as Technical or Educational data elements.\n\nProvides information in the form of metadata elements about conditions pertaining to the technical requirements, location, and size information\n\nProvides an extensive set of data elements describing the intended or actual use of learning resources across various jurisdictional, cultural and linguistic settings. The description of pedagogical use of a learning resource includes annotations, contributions, curriculum, educational outcome, audience and learning activity.\n\nPart 7 provides RDF mappings of the different MLR entities introduced in the MLR framework: Data element specifications, resource classes, data elements, application profiles, MLR records and data element group specifications. It also provides an OWL 2 DL ontology for the resource classes and data element specifications.\n\nThis Part enables the support storage of learning resource description in databases and the exchange of descriptions through harvesting mechanisms. It can be used to keep track of the record editing process including global metadata author identification, last record update and\napplication profile used for the description of a learning resource.\n\nProvides data elements for the description of persons (natural or legal) that are related to the description of a learning resource.\n\nProvides guidance in the form of rules and heuristics for the conversion of an IEEE 1484.12.1-2002 (LOM) record to a MLR data element set.\n"}
{"id": "19745446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19745446", "title": "Intergenerationality", "text": "Intergenerationality\n\nIntergenerationality is interaction between members of different generations. Sociologists study many intergenerational issues, including equity, conflict, and mobility: \n\nAn intergenerational conflict is either a conflict situation between teenagers and adults or a more abstract conflict between two generations, which often involves all inclusiveprejudices against another generation.\n\nIntergenerational conflict also describes cultural, social, or economic discrepancies between generations, which may be caused by shifts in values or conflicts of interest between younger and older generations. An example are changes to an inter-generational contract that may be necessary to reflect a change in demographics. It is associated with the term \"generation gap\".\n\nAn inter-generational contract is a dependency between different generations based on the assumption that future generations, in honoring the \"contract\", will provide a service to a generation that has previously done the same service to an older generation.\n\nThe most common use of the term is in statutory pension insurance provisions and refers to the consensus to provide pension for the retired generations through payments made by the working generations.\n\nIntergenerational cycles of violence occur when violence is passed from father or mother to son or daughter, parent to child, or sibling to sibling. It often refers to violent behavior learned as a child and then repeated as an adult, therefore continuing on in a perceived cycle.\n\nIntergenerational equity, in the sociological and psychological context, is the concept or idea of fairness or justice in relationships between children, youth, adults and seniors, particularly in terms of treatment and interactions. It has been studied in environmental and sociological settings. In the context of institutional investment management, intergenerational equity is the principle that an endowed institution's spending rate must not exceed its after-inflation rate of compound return, so that investment gains are spent equally on current and future constituents of the endowed assets. This concept was originally set out in 1974 by economist James Tobin, who wrote that, \"The trustees of endowed institutions are the guardians of the future against the claims of the present. Their task in managing the endowment is to preserve equity among generations.\"\n\nConversations about intergenerational equity occur across several fields. They include transition economics, social policy, and government budget-making. Intergenerational equity is also explored in environmental concerns, including sustainable development, global warming and climate change. \n\nConversations about intergenerational equity are also relevant to social justice arenas as well, where issues such as health care are equal in importance to youth rights and youth voice are pressing and urgent. There is a strong interest within the legal community towards the application of intergenerational equity in law.\n\nAn intergenerational policy is a public policy that incorporates an intergenerational approach to addressing an issue or has an impact across the generations. Approaching policy from an intergenerational perspective is based on an understanding of the interdependence and reciprocity that characterizes the relationship between the generations. \n\nAn intergenerational approach to public policy recognizes that generations share basic needs including adequate income, access to quality health care and social services, educational and employment opportunities, and a safe place to live. Further, policies that are supportive of any age group must build on the common concerns of all generations.\n\nIntergenerational ministry is a model of Christian ministry which emphasizes relationships between age groups and encourages mixed-age activities.\n\nInter-generational ministry stands in contrast with other modes of ministry more traditionally seen in local churches, such as Sunday schools and youth ministries.\n\nIn Sunday school, children, youths, and sometimes adults, are instructed by teachers who are, typically, adults. Classes are usually divided by age groups, as in secular schools. In youth ministries, teens or young adults (especially college age) gather in groups presided over by a \"youth minister\". These groups, which are often part of parachurch organizations, focus on peer fellowship and instruction of their members.\n\nThese modes of ministry segregate members by age, and presuppose a hierarchical ministry in which more experienced, more educated, and generally older members minister didactically to their charges. Inter-generational activities, by contrast, emphasize a mixture of ages, and de-emphasize formal teacher-pupil relationships.\n\nInter-generational ministry is one of a number of movements which have arisen in response over concerns that young adults very commonly cease participation in church, and often do not return. Proponents of the inter-generational ministry movement hold that the hierarchical and didactic roles found in traditional church ministries deprive teens and young adults of a sense of purpose and involvement, since their role in these ministries is passive and subordinate, and since they are often kept separate from adult activities. Therefore, they propose that younger members should take active roles in the ministry of the local church, and that church activities should involve and encourage participation from members across a wide range of ages.\n\nA second thread in the inter-generational ministry movement is that of family involvement. Concerns over divorce, abuse and other family disruptions led to criticism of how traditional church activities typically segregate family members according to age, thus de-emphasizing family relationships. Inter-generational activities were seen as a means to involve families as units, thus reinforcing family bonds.\n\nStudies show that children attending Sunday Schools and youth programs are less likely to continue church involvement, compared to those who attended worship with parents, and are integrated into a community (e.g., Mark de Vries \"Family-Based Youth Ministry\", 2004). Those children who continue church involvement as adults often have a ‘nominal faith’ (e.g. George Barna \"Transforming children into Spiritual Champions\", 2003).\n\nProponents of this mode of ministry claim it is a Biblical model - particularly when the ministry is located within the family in accordance with the 'relational' Hebrew model described in Deuteronomy 6.\n\n"}
{"id": "22523537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22523537", "title": "Kameraseura", "text": "Kameraseura\n\nKameraseura (Finnish for \"camera society\") is the largest organisation for photography in Finland. It is based in Helsinki and has over one thousand members.\n\nKameraseura holds various kinds of photography classes and regular themed meetings, and publishes a monthly photography magazine called \"Kamera\". The web site of Kameraseura also has a web forum.\n\n"}
{"id": "19716646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19716646", "title": "Leak noise correlator", "text": "Leak noise correlator\n\nA leak noise correlator is an electronic device used for Leak Detection and as a leak locator to find leaks in pressurized water or gas lines. \n\nTypically, microphones or acoustic sound sensors are placed in contact with the pipe, at two or more points, to record the sound emitted by a leak (e.g. a hissing noise) somewhere between the points. The sound data is processed through a mathematical algorithm which compares or correlates the two recordings to determine the difference in the times it takes noise to travel from the site of the leak to each of the sensors. If the distance between the sensors is known in advance, this timing information can be used to determine the location of the leak.,\n\nThe cross correlation signal of one continuous function, f, with another, g, is defined as:\n\nwhere f * denotes the complex conjugate of f.\n\nIf f and g are two sound recordings of the noise produced by the leak, delayed in time by a different unknown amount, the time delay can be found by determining the time offset for which the cross correlation product has a maximum value. This approach should be accurate so long as the sound of the leak received at each sensor is sufficiently similar over a period of time.\n\nLeak correlators require accurate information about the materials through which the leak sound is traveling in order to perform an accurate time calculation. The user normally has to input the size and type of pipe as well as the distances of the loggers from each other. Many standard pipe sizes have known speeds of sound which can be used for the calculation. If the materials are unknown, the speed of sound through the materials will have to be calculated on site to get an accurate leak correlation. \n\nMost correlators can also analyze the sound levels and sound frequencies to determine other information about the leak such as the size and severity of the leak or whether it's on the pipe, a valve or hydrant, or in a service line.\n\nMost leak correlators serve two major purposes. First to detect the presence of a leak, second to pinpoint the location of the leak for repair when detected.\n\n"}
{"id": "37772265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37772265", "title": "Lime-ash floor", "text": "Lime-ash floor\n\nLime-ash floors were an economic form of floor construction from the 15th century to the 19th century, for upper floors in parts of England where limestone or chalk were easily available. They were strong, flexible, and offered good heat and sound insulation.\n\nLime-ash is the residue found at the bottom of a wood-fired lime kiln, consisting of waste lime and wood ash. These kilns became common in the early 15th century and continued to be used until newer technology replaced them in the late 19th century. Lime-ash could also be made in coal-fired kilns. In areas where gypsum was common they were known as plaster floors. Lime ash was used on the upper floors of yeomans houses and in great houses such as Hardwick Hall in Derbyshire, where the upper surface would be buffed to a fine finish using a mixture of egg-white, curdled milk and fish-gelatine. The underside could be left bare or smoothed with a lime-plaster. Alternatively the floor joist could be concealed with a conventional lath and plaster ceiling.\n\nIsaac Ware in his \"A Complete Body of Architecture (1756)\" remarks on \"the beauty of floors of plaster mixed with other ingredients\", comparing them with those of granite.\n\nA lime-ash floor typically occurs on the upper floors of a building. One can expect to find construction beams lying the length of the building with flooring joists being placed across at intervals of about 400mm (16 in). A bed of reeds (or similar grasses) is placed on the joists making a tight thatch. They are secured by placing oak laths over them and nailing these to the joists. A 50mm slurry of \"lime-ash composition\" is poured over the bedding material which supports it until the lime-ash has dried out. The reed bed acts as shuttering and laths add to the rigidity of the floor. However laths that are too tightly fixed to the joists hinder the movement the floor must have to cope with settlement and the structural changes during its lifetime which can be counted in centuries.\n\nThe lime-ash composition varies according to the materials locally available:\n\n\nNigel and Mary Kerr in \"Lincolnshire Life\", November 1987, write: \"A traditional mix used in Nottinghamshire, Northamptonshire and south Lincolnshire was: 'One third lime, one third well sifted coal ashes and one third loamy clay and horse dung from grasses. They add that ox blood and horse hair were sometimes included.\n\nAfter long use the surface can start to break up: this can be ignored, or a further screed of lime-ash composition can be laid over the original floor. This was often done in the past but does increase the weight of the structure. Damp can cause fungi to rot the bedding material, or insects to gnaw away the laths and indeed the joists, taking with it the floor. Knocking through service ducts without due care can destroy the floor, as can overloading due to change of use or addition of partition walls.\n\nLime-ash is generally no longer available, so repairs and reconstruction are usually done using a mixture of lime putty, coal ash, Gypsum (Class A hemi hydrate fine casting plaster), unburnt loamy clay and burnt crushed tile. To this are added retardants such as Keratin (natural) or Sodium Citrate (manufactured). The bedding material is repaired with water reed , or combed winter wheat which is the strongest form of straw, and chestnut laths which can be obtained in lengths.\n\nThey can be found principally in Derbyshire, Cheshire, Shropshire, Herefordshire and the Welsh borders, Staffordshire, Leicestershire, Worcestershire and Warwickshire; Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire and many parts of Yorkshire.\nSome floors are made almost entirely of gypsum, particularly around Newark – plaster floors would be a better description.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32475144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32475144", "title": "List of anthems of non-sovereign countries, regions and territories", "text": "List of anthems of non-sovereign countries, regions and territories\n\nThis is a list of anthems of non-sovereign countries, regions and dependent territories. U.S. states are omitted; their anthems can be found at List of U.S. state songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "54148003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54148003", "title": "List of fake memoirs and journals", "text": "List of fake memoirs and journals\n\nThis page provides a list of fake memoirs and journals. A fake memoir is a book that was published with the assertion that the events depicted are substantially true, but are later discovered or strongly asserted to be false. A book does not have to be entirely fictional to be considered a fake memoir. In contrast, a book which openly acknowledges that its author has fictionalized elements while still drawing on their own life may be more properly considered an autobiographical novel.\n\nEntries are organized by the original publication date of the work in question.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2048315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2048315", "title": "List of hooligan firms", "text": "List of hooligan firms\n\nThis is a list of notable hooligan firms or football firms, which are groups that have been verified as participating in football hooliganism or other sports-related hooliganism. In countries such as England and Poland, firms are clearly defined, but in Latin America the situation is less clear cut. For groups in Latin America, see barra brava and torcida organizada.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n</ref>\n\n\n</ref> Faust des Ostens<ref name=\"http://www.spiegel.de/sport/fussball/dfb-pokal-krawalle-dresdner-und-dortmunder-rechtsextreme-arbeiteten-zusammen-a-800706.html\">\n</ref> \n</ref>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n </ref>\n</ref>\n</ref>\n</ref>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7909539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7909539", "title": "List of literary awards", "text": "List of literary awards\n\nThis is a list of literary awards from around the world. This list is not intended to be complete, and is instead a list of those literary awards with Wikipedia articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2841648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2841648", "title": "Locus amoenus", "text": "Locus amoenus\n\nLocus amoenus (Latin for \"pleasant place\") is a literary topos involving an idealized place of safety or comfort. A \"locus amoenus\" is usually a beautiful, shady lawn or open woodland, or a group of idyllic islands, sometimes with connotations of Eden or Elysium.\n\nErnst Robert Curtius wrote the concept's definitive formulation in his \"European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages\" (1953).\n\nA \"locus amoenus\" will have three basic elements: trees, grass, and water. Often, the garden will be in a remote place and function as a landscape of the mind. It can also be used to highlight the differences between urban and rural life or be a place of refuge from the processes of time and mortality. \n\nIn some works, such gardens also have overtones of the regenerative powers of human sexuality marked out by flowers, springtime, and goddesses of love and fertility.\n\nThe literary use of this type of setting goes back, in Western literature at least, to Homer, and it became a staple of the pastoral works of poets such as Theocritus and Virgil. Horace (\"Ars poetica\", 17) and the commentators on Virgil, such as Servius, recognize that descriptions of \"loci amoeni\" have become a rhetorical commonplace.\n\nIn Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\", the function of the \"locus amoenus\" is inverted, to form the \"locus terribilis\". Instead of offering a respite from dangers, it is itself usually the scene of violent encounters.\n\nThe Middle Ages merged the classical \"locus amoenus\" with biblical imagery, as from the Song of Songs.\n\nMatthew of Vendôme provided multiple accounts of how to describe the \"locus amoenus\", while Dante drew on the commonplace for his description of the Earthly Paradise: \"Here spring is endless, here all fruits are.\"\n\nThe \"locus amoenus\" was a popular theme in the works of such Renaissance figures as Ariosto and Tasso.\n\nShakespeare made good use of the \"locus amoenus\" in his long poem \"Venus and Adonis\". The trope also fed into his construction, in many plays, of what Northrop Frye has called the Shakespearean \"green world\" – a space that lies outside of city limits, a liminal space where erotic passions can be freely explored, away from civilization and the social order – such as the Forest of Arden in \"As You Like It\". A mysterious and dark, feminine place, as opposed to the rigid masculine civil structure, the green world can also be found featured in \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" and \"Titus Andronicus\".\n\nIn the 20th century the \"locus amoenus\" appears in the work of T. S. Eliot, as in the Rose Garden of \"Burnt Norton\" and in J. R. R. Tolkien's Shire and Lothlórien.\n\nThe split-off obverse of the \"locus amoenus\" is the apparently delectable but in fact treacherous garden, often linked to a malign sexuality, as in Circe's palace or the Bower of Bliss in Edmund Spenser's \"Faerie Queene\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31227735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31227735", "title": "Lunar swirls", "text": "Lunar swirls\n\nLunar swirls are enigmatic features found across the Moon's surface, which are characterized by having a high albedo, appearing optically immature (i.e. having the optical characteristics of a relatively young regolith), and (often) having a sinuous shape. Their curvilinear shape is often accentuated by low albedo regions that wind between the bright swirls. They appear to overlay the lunar surface, superposed on top of craters and ejecta deposits, but impart no observable topography. Swirls have been identified on the lunar maria and highlands - they are not associated with a specific lithologic composition. Swirls on the maria are characterized by strong albedo contrasts and complex, sinuous morphology, whereas those on highland terrain appear less prominent and exhibit simpler shapes, such as single loops or diffuse bright spots.\n\nThe lunar swirls are coincident with regions of relatively high magnetic field strength on a planetary body that does not, and may never have had, an active core dynamo with which to generate its own magnetic field. Every swirl has an associated magnetic anomaly, but not every magnetic anomaly has an identifiable swirl. Orbital magnetic field mapping by the Apollo 15 and 16 sub-satellites, Lunar Prospector, and Kaguya show regions with a local magnetic field. Because the Moon has no currently active global magnetic field, these regional anomalies are regions of remnant magnetism; their origin remains controversial.\n\nThere are three leading models for swirl formation. Each model must address two characteristics of lunar swirls formation:\n\nModels for creation of the magnetic anomalies associated with lunar swirls point to the observation that several of the magnetic anomalies are antipodal to the younger, large impact basins on the Moon.\n\nThis theory argues that the high albedo of the swirls is the result of an impact with a comet. The impact would cause scouring of the top-most surface regolith by the coma’s turbulent flow of gas and dust, which exposed fresh material and redeposited the fine, scoured material in discrete deposits. According to this model, the associated strong magnetic anomalies are the result of magnetization of near-surface materials heated above the Curie temperature through hyper-velocity gas collisions and micro-impacts as the coma impacted the surface. Proponents of the cometary impact model consider the occurrence of many swirls antipodal the major basins to be coincidental or the result of incomplete mapping of swirl locations.\n\nThis theory suggests that the swirls are formed because the lighter-colored regolith is protected from the solar wind, due to a magnetic anomaly. The swirls represent exposed silicate materials whose albedos have been selectively preserved over time from the effects of space weathering via deflection of solar wind ion bombardment. According to this model, optical maturation of exposed silicate surfaces is a result of solar wind ion bombardment. This model suggests that swirl formation is a continuing process, which began after creation of the magnetic anomaly.\n\nMathematical simulations conducted in 2018 showed that lava tubes could have become magnetic as they cooled, which would provide a magnetic field consistent with the observations near the lunar swirls.\n\nThe dust transport model proposes that weak electric fields created by interaction between the crustal magnetic anomalies and the solar wind plasma could attract or repel electrically charged fine dust. High albedo, feldspathic material is the dominant component of the finest particles of lunar soil. Electrostatic movement of dust lofted above the surface during terminator crossings could cause this material to preferentially accumulate and form the bright, looping swirl patterns.\n\nDirect magnetic observations of the lunar swirls have been conducted by many lunar spacecraft, including \"Clementine\" and \"Lunar Prospector\". The results of these observations are inconsistent with the Cometary impact model. Further observations by the \"Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter\" support the theory that solar wind is being deflected by a magnetic field.\n\nSpectral observations by the Moon Mineralogy Mapper instrument on board \"Chandrayaan-1\" confirmed that the lighter-colored regions are deficient in hydroxide, which also supports the hypothesis that solar wind is being deflected in the pale areas.\n\n, a CubeSat mission concept is under study at NASA, with the goal of understanding the formation of the lunar swirls. The proposed \"Bi-sat Observations of the Lunar Atmosphere above Swirls\", or \"BOLAS\" mission would involve two small satellites connected with a space tether. The lower CubeSat would orbit at an altitude of six miles above the surface.\n"}
{"id": "24186322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24186322", "title": "Makapansgat pebble", "text": "Makapansgat pebble\n\nThe Makapansgat pebble (ca. 3,000,000 BP) is a 260-gram reddish-brown jasperite cobble with natural chipping and wear patterns that make it look like a crude rendition of a human face. \n\nThe pebble is interesting in that it was found some distance from any possible natural source, associated with the bones of \"Australopithecus africanus\" in a cave in Makapansgat, South Africa. Though it is definitely not a manufactured object, it has been suggested that some australopithecine might have recognized it as a symbolic face, in possibly the earliest example of symbolic thinking or aesthetic sense in the human heritage, and brought the pebble back to the cave. This would make it a candidate for the oldest known manuport.\n\nThe teacher Wilfred I. Eizman found it in the Makapansgat, a dolerite cave in the Makapan Valley north of Mokopane, Limpopo, South Africa in 1925. Almost 50 years later, Raymond Dart was the first to describe it in 1974.\n\nThe Makapansgat pebble cannot be seen as art if a usual definition of the term is used, as the object was found and not made. Nevertheless that an Australopithecus may have recognized a face would reveal that the early hominid had some sort of capacity for symbolic thinking, necessary for the development of art and language. If the early hominid has seen this object really as a face, or had magical speculations towards this object or just enjoyed the pebble remains unclear.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21535723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21535723", "title": "Ministry of Tourism (Zimbabwe)", "text": "Ministry of Tourism (Zimbabwe)\n\nThe Minister of Tourism and Hospitality Industry is a government ministry, responsible for tourism in Zimbabwe. Priscah Mupfumira is the incumbent minister. It oversees:\n"}
{"id": "30622676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30622676", "title": "Museo de Arte Español Enrique Larreta", "text": "Museo de Arte Español Enrique Larreta\n\nThe Museo de Arte Español Enrique Larreta is a museum of Spanish art located in the Belgrano ward of Buenos Aires, Argentina.\n\nThe museum resulted from the purchase by the city of the Buenos Aires home of Enrique Larreta, perhaps the most prominent Argentine exponent of Hispanic modernism in literature, and Ambassador to France from 1910 to 1919. Larreta made numerous visits to Ávila, Spain, during his tenure, and he amassed a large collection of medieval art, armor, tapestries, Spanish Renaissance art, Spanish baroque art and decor, manuscripts, wood carvings, and French furniture, among other collections.\n\nLarreta died in 1961, and his family sold his home and its collections to the City of Buenos Aires for its conversion into the Museum of Spanish Art. The museum was inaugurated in 1962, and named in his honor. Its collections were enriched further by the 1977 transfer of portions of the Isaac Fernández Blanco Museum of Hispanic Art.\n\nThe former Larreta home, designed by Argentine architect Ernesto Bunge, and inaugurated in 1886, is a work of neo-Spanish colonial architecture, and features an Andalusian patio measuring 6,500 m² (70,000 ft²) and connected to the house via an extensive portico. The property was purchased by Larreta's mother-in-law, Mercedes Castellanos de Anchorena, and given to the newlywed couple in 1903. Much as Martín Noël did with the property that later became the Isaac Fernández Blanco Museum, Larreta had the home expanded and refurbished along neo-colonial lines (\"restauración nacionalista\", as the designs were known). Historical, as well as religious, designs were used, and the ornamented portal, for instance, was a copy of the entry to the \"Casa Basavilbaso\" (a former customs house which had earlier been demolished). Completed in 1916, these works were designed by Christian Schindler.\n\nThe extensive gardens feature ginkgo biloba, ombú, wisteria, cypress, palm, bitter orange, and silk floss trees, as well as buxus hedges totaling around 700 m (2,300 ft). The museum also includes the Alfonso El Sabio Library, specializing in Spanish literature, and \"La Casita de Arriba\", a children's learning annex.\n\n"}
{"id": "55632157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55632157", "title": "Music of Stranger Things", "text": "Music of Stranger Things\n\nThe \"Stranger Things\" original soundtracks are composed by Michael Stein and Kyle Dixon of the electronic band Survive. They make extensive use of synthesizers in homage to 1980s artists and film composers including Jean-Michel Jarre, Tangerine Dream, Vangelis, Goblin, John Carpenter, Giorgio Moroder, and Fabio Frizzi.\n\nThe Duffer Brothers were first made aware of Dixon and Stein's music while watching the 2014 thriller film \"The Guest\", which featured songs from their band Survive. In creating a mock trailer that that was later used to sell the show to Netflix, the Duffers decided to use Dixon and Stein's song \"Dirge\" to serve as the clip's soundtrack. Once the show was green-lit, the Duffers contacted Survive around July 2015 to ask if they were still doing music; the two provided the production team with dozens of songs from their band's past to gain their interest, helping to land them the role. The Duffers were ecstatic after listening to the material provided, and they implored the duo to quit their day jobs to produce music for the show full-time. They accepted the offer, and once aboard, the two worked with producers to select some of their older music to rework for the show while developing new music, principally with character motifs. The tracks produced by the duo were sent during production to The Duffers, who later labelled the demos as \"sketches\" due to Dixon and Stein's odd title choices (“Jupiter 8 Spirit Winds,” “Soakers Forum 3,” and “Lighting Candles and Eggy Pizza\" are among the most unique of the batch). A \"sketch\" that was originally titled \"Prophecy\" was later developed into the show's now-iconic theme. In all, just under 14 hours of music was produced for the show over the course of the year. Dixon and Stein had been hired before the casting process, so their motif demos were used and played over the actors' audition tapes, aiding in the casting selection.\n\nThe show's theme is based on an unused piece Stein composed much earlier that ended up in a library of work that was available for potential commercial licensing. The duo shared a \"loose\" version of the potential demo with the production staff, who thought that with some reworking it would be good for the opening credits. Dixon and Stein proceeded to retool the demo, and on the staff's suggestion, made it \"bigger, bolder and kind of build to a climax,\" a goal that was ultimately achieved with the inclusion of Prophet V, Roland SH-2, and Mellotron synthesizers, coupled with the usage of various filters. They also produced additional versions that varied in length, so as to ease the integration of the theme into the as-of-then uncompleted, tentative opening sequence.\n\nAfter the release of the show's first season and its meteoric rise in popularity that followed, Dixon and Stein's composition quickly gained a large amount of popularity as well. Various musical entertainers such as the band Blink-182 have used the song in their live productions, and a number of amateur musicians have posted cover versions to YouTube. The song also won the award for Outstanding Main Title Theme Music at the 69th Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards.\n\n\"Stranger Things\" original soundtrack, consisting of 75 songs from Dixon and Stein split across two volumes, was released by Lakeshore Records. Digital release and streaming options were released on August 10 and 19, 2016 for the two volumes, respectively, while retail versions were available on September 16 and 23, 2016. Limited editions of the soundtrack on vinyl, in both individual and a boxed set, were released in July 2017. A cassette version of the soundtrack, sold exclusively by Urban Outfitters, was released on July 14, 2017. The cassette packaging features a cardboard cover that emulates an old VHS sleeves, while the cassette case is made to look like a VHS tape.\n\nBoth volumes were nominated individually for the Best Score Soundtrack Category for the 2017 Grammy Awards, though neither won.\n\nVolume One garnered 14,000 \"equivalent album units\" in the United States in its first week of sale according to Nielsen Soundscan.\n\nThe soundtrack album for the second season of \"Stranger Things\", titled Stranger Things 2, was released digitally on October 20, 2017, via Lakeshore and Invada Records. The soundtrack was composed by Kyle Dixon and Michael Stein of the electronic band Survive. The soundtrack is intended to be released on physical formats, such as compact disc, vinyl, and cassette. On the soundtrack's composition, Dixon and Stein together said that the score for the season introduces \"new styles of composition, while still revisiting old themes when appropriate ... We've created new elements that are necessary to support the story, but still want to remain true to the sound of Season 1.\" The first track from the soundtrack, \"Walkin' in Hawkins\", was released on October 12.\n\nIn the United States, the album sold 6,000 units in its first week of release.\nIn addition to original music, \"Stranger Things\" features period music from artists including The Clash, Joy Division, Toto, New Order, The Bangles, Foreigner, Echo and the Bunnymen, Peter Gabriel, and Corey Hart, as well as excerpts from Tangerine Dream, John Carpenter, and Vangelis. In particular, The Clash's \"Should I Stay or Should I Go\" was specifically picked to play at pivotal moments of the story, such as when Will is trying to communicate with Joyce from the Upside Down.\n\nStranger Things: Music from the Netflix Original Series is the non-original composition soundtrack companion to the second season of \"Stranger Things\". The album, which interlaces popular eighties songs with sound bytes from the first and second seasons, was released on October 27, 2017 by Legacy Recordings to coincide with the release of the second season.\n\nAn supplemental soundtrack album with unreleased cues from the second season, titled Stranger Things: Halloween Sounds from the Upside Down, had a digital release on October 5, 2018, via Lakeshore and Invada Records. The music on the album was produced by the series' longtime composers Kyle Dixon and Michael Stein of the electronic band Survive, and was previously available only as bonus tracks for the iTunes edition of \"Stranger Things 2\".\n"}
{"id": "53001361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53001361", "title": "Patadyong", "text": "Patadyong\n\nThe patadyong is a pre-Spanish wrap around loose skirt worn by Filipino women particularly in the lowland regions of the Visayas islands. It is similar to the \"sarong\" or malong used in Mindanao and Indonesia, but instead of the batik patterns it has colourful checked designs or patterns. It is usually worn with a kimona (a blouse that was traditionally made of pineapple fibre).\n\n"}
{"id": "10401616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10401616", "title": "Poseidon (DC Comics)", "text": "Poseidon (DC Comics)\n\nPoseidon is the name of a DC Comics deity who is based on the Greek god of the same name. Due to his status as Greek god of the sea, the character has figured primarily in stories relating to two of DC Comics' main superhero properties: Wonder Woman (an Amazon warrior with various connections to the Greek pantheon) and Aquaman (the king of the underwater city of Atlantis).\n\nPoseidon first appears in \"Flash Comics\" #9 and was adapted by George Pérez.\n\nPoseidon's history in Greek mythology is the same in the DC Comics universe outside of the fact that he is the brother of Zeus and Hades.\n\nWhen the Amazons freed themselves from enslavement arranged in part by Ares, the founding Goddesses of that people received the help of Poseidon, who had a deep grievance against the war god, to get the Amazons to safety by parting the sea waters to create a path to the island of Themyscira.\n\nWhen Hawkman was fighting the undersea creatures called the Kogats, he received help from Poseidon who helped to destroy them.\n\nWith the help of Proteus, Poseidon sees into the future where he takes an interest in Mera and plans to make her his wife. Proteus provides Poseidon with “time pods” that allow him to travel back and forth in time. When Poseidon abducts Mera, Aquaman steals one of the Olympian’s time pods and follows him. Zeus proposes a contest to retrieve a golden apple beneath the sea, with Mera going to the winner. Despite Poseidon’s cheating, Aquaman manages to win the contest. Angered, Poseidon takes Mera and flees to Aquaman’s time. Aquaman and Aqualad follow with the help of Zeus and save both Mera and Poseidon from a berserk creature created by Mera. Poseidon vows to mend his ways, and Aquaman gives him a pod with which he can travel back to his normal era.\n\nAfter Ares was defeated by Wonder Woman, Poseidon was with the Gods when they rejoiced. With Wonder Woman dying from the wounds she sustained in her fight against Ares, Zeus orders Poseidon to take Wonder Woman underwater to heal her.\n\nZeus, Hades, and Poseidon meet atop the corpse of their father and revise their pact. They will join forces to build a new Olympus.\n\nAfter Aquaman had defeated Poseidon's son Triton in combat, Poseidon decrees that the humiliation of a God is nothing that no mortal should ever play witness to. So as punishment, Poseidon blinds Aquaman. Aquaman tells Poseidon to go to Hell, but Poseidon merely laughs at him and disappears.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, Poseidon is reintroduced when Wonder Woman arrives at the Thames River in order to gain an audience with him. Poseidon appears to Wonder Woman in the form of a massive, furry, tentacled frog. Poseidon senses Zeus' blood in Diana and warns her that her heritage has no meaning with Zeus' death, and demands that she step aside. Acknowledging Poseidon's claim to the heavens, Diana warns that Hera has already claimed them as her own. Poseidon is angered, lifting her up by the neck as citizens watch in horror from the bridge. Poseidon is skeptical that Hera hopes to gain control over all of Olympus. If it is true, he will make her kneel to him. The world was split between the three brothers - sea, heavens, and hell. The rest were scraps left to the other gods. Now, he has the power to destroy those scraps or leave them be. It will be up to the others to decide which they want. Without a king, he says, Hera has nothing. Wonder Woman is not making much progress with her bargain to Poseidon as he swats her up onto the London Bridge. When Lennox and Hades arrive at where Wonder Woman and Poseidon are, Wonder Woman makes her proposal: that Olympus could be ruled by the sea by day and the underworld by night...all while sharing a queen. Poseidon finds the deal laughable. Just then, the group is approached by Hera. Poseidon is amused by the fact that Hera played him and Hades as fools. Poseidon regards this as a mistake that will not be made again, swallowing the First Born whole.\n\nThe First Born later confronts Poseidon who regrets Zeus' decision to let the First Born Live. Within the belly of Poseidon, the First Born and Cassandra find their way to Poseidon's true home where Poseidon offers him a deal. He will return the First Born's weapon and allow him to overtake Mount Olympus in exchange for leaving the sea and the Underworld to its current rulers. Naturally, the First Born refuses. Poseidon warns that if the First Born kills him there, he will forever be trapped within the god's corpse. As such, it behooves him to make a deal. The deal will be sealed in blood, and the First Born slits his finger, and mingles his blood with Poseidon's own. With the deal made, Poseidon warns that the ruler of Olympus is now Apollo. After letting the First Born on his way, Poseidon and Hades note that the two enemies the First Born faces are formidable. They hope that one will be destroyed by him, while the other will destroy him. While on Mount Olympus, Apollo is looking at his reflection until it is interrupted by Poseidon who mocks Apollo's claim.\n\nLike the other Olympian Gods, Poseidon possesses super-strength, super-speed, shapeshifting, immortality, and invulnerability.\n\nPoseidon can control the seas and all life that dwells within them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1274640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1274640", "title": "Proceedings", "text": "Proceedings\n\nIn academia and librarianship, proceedings are the acts and happenings of an academic field, a learned society, or an academic conference. For example, the title of the \"Acta Crystallographica\" journals is New Latin for \"Proceedings in Crystallography\"; the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America\" is the main journal of that academy; and conference proceedings are a collection of academic papers published in the context of an academic conference or workshop. Conference proceedings typically contain the contributions made by researchers at the conference. They are the written record of the work that is presented to fellow researchers. In many fields, they are published as supplements to academic journals; in others they may be considered grey literature. They are usually distributed in printed or electronic volumes, either before the conference opens or after it has closed. Scientific journals whose ISO 4 title abbreviations start with \"Proc\", \"Acta\", or \"Trans\" are journals of the proceedings (transactions) of a field or of an organization concerned with it. \n\nSelecting and collecting papers for conferences is organized by one or more persons, who form the \"editorial team\". The quality of the papers is typically ensured by having external people read the papers before they are accepted in the proceedings. The level of quality control varies considerably from conference to conference: some have only a binary accept/reject decision, others go through more thorough feedback and revisions cycles (peer reviewing or refereeing). Depending on the level of the conference, this process can take up to a year. The editors decide about the composition of the proceedings, the order of the papers, and produce the preface and possibly other pieces of text. Although most changes in papers occur on basis of consensus between editors and authors, editors can also single-handedly make changes in papers.\n\nSince the collection of papers comes from individual researchers, the character of proceedings is distinctly different from an educational textbook. Each paper typically is quite isolated from the other papers in the proceedings. Mostly there is no general argument leading from one contribution to the next.\n\nIn some cases, the editors of the proceedings may decide to further develop the proceedings into a textbook. This may even be a goal at the outset of the conference.\n\nConference proceedings are published in-house by the organizing institution of the conference or via an academic publisher. For example, the \"Lecture Notes in Computer Science\" by Springer take much of their input from proceedings. Increasingly, proceedings are published in electronic format via the internet or on CD.\n\nIn the sciences, the quality of publications in conference proceedings is usually not as high as that of international scientific journals. However, in computer science, papers published in conference proceedings are accorded a higher status than in other fields, due to the fast-moving nature of the field.\n\nA number of full-fledged academic journals unconnected to particular conferences also use the word \"proceedings\" as part of their name, for example, \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America\".\n\nConference proceedings may be published as a book or book series, in a journal, or otherwise as a serial publication (see ). In any case, impact factors are not available, although other journal metrics (such as Google Scholar h-index and Scimago-metrics) might exist. Bibliographic indexing often is done in separate bibliographic databases and citation indexes, e.g., Conference Proceedings Citation Index instead of Science Citation Index.\n\n"}
{"id": "21687219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21687219", "title": "Punjab Lok Rahs", "text": "Punjab Lok Rahs\n\nPunjab Lok Rahs started working as an independent alternative theater group in 1986. The group has seen a number of upheavals both internal and external during its history. On average, the group has held a performance every fortnight since its creation.\n\nIt started as a group of young men and women, primarily students, that was concerned with the military oppression of arts and cultural activities in Pakistan. The group cherished a society that has gender equity and democratic values, respects all humans and offers equal economic opportunities to all. Rahs believes in organized and conscious efforts to realize this dream. Theater is its medium.\n\nRahs’ experience in the art of theater is very deep as well. From staging classical epics to quick response street skits and from working out foreign adaptations to improvising ones with community and from performing at overseas festivals to villages and urban slums, Rahs has touched upon a host of issues. Rahs’ canvas is very wide and diverse as it has dealt with subjects like child marriage and women’s right to marry of their free will and staged plays against arms race and military dictatorship.\n\nBesides experimentation and experience, Rahs has learned theater from its gurus like Badal Sarkar. Its members have received training from many institutions in other countries.\n\nThe group has imparted theater training to a number of civil society organizations as well. It has supported scores of other organizations by performing for the communities with which they work.\n\nRahs draws inspiration from Punjab’s indigenous theater tradition. Its name ‘Rahs’ is the Punjabi word for local form of theater and its logo shows the basic props of this theater. The group aims to marry the tradition with modern techniques and concepts and make it an effective tool in the hands of organizations working for social change.\n\nRahs performs plays only in the mother language of its audience – the people of Punjab. The group believes that the mother language lies at the heart of the issue of cultural identity. The group not only performs but also trains other dramatic societies and community organizations to do theater as an art and use it as an effective tool of communication.\n\n"}
{"id": "41524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41524", "title": "Renaissance architecture", "text": "Renaissance architecture\n\nRenaissance architecture is the European architecture of the period between the early 14th and early 17th centuries in different regions, demonstrating a conscious revival and development of certain elements of ancient Greek and Roman thought and material culture. Stylistically, Renaissance architecture followed Gothic architecture and was succeeded by Baroque architecture. Developed first in Florence, with Filippo Brunelleschi as one of its innovators, the Renaissance style quickly spread to other Italian cities. The style was carried to France, Germany, England, Russia and other parts of Europe at different dates and with varying degrees of impact.\n\nRenaissance style places emphasis on symmetry, proportion, geometry and the regularity of parts, as they are demonstrated in the architecture of classical antiquity and in particular ancient Roman architecture, of which many examples remained. Orderly arrangements of columns, pilasters and lintels, as well as the use of semicircular arches, hemispherical domes, niches and aedicula replaced the more complex proportional systems and irregular profiles of medieval buildings.\n\nThe word \"Renaissance\" derived from the term \"la rinascita\", which means rebirth, first appeared in Giorgio Vasari's \"Vite de' più eccellenti architetti, pittori, et scultori Italiani\" The Lives of the Artists, 1550–60.\n\nAlthough the term Renaissance was used first by the French historian Jules Michelet, it was given its more lasting definition from the Swiss historian Jacob Burckhardt, whose book, \"Die Kultur der Renaissance in Italien\" 1860, The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy, 1860, English translation, by SGC Middlemore, in 2 vols., London, 1878) was influential in the development of the modern interpretation of the Italian Renaissance. The folio of measured drawings \"Édifices de Rome moderne; ou, Recueil des palais, maisons, églises, couvents et autres monuments\" (The Buildings of Modern Rome), first published in 1840 by Paul Letarouilly, also played an important part in the revival of interest in this period.Erwin Panofsky, \"Renaissance and Renascences in Western Art\", (New York: Harper and Row, 1960) The Renaissance style was recognized by contemporaries in the term \"all'antica\", or \"in the ancient manner\" (of the Romans).\n\nItaly of the 15th century, and the city of Florence \nin particular, was home to the Renaissance. It is in Florence that the new architectural style had its beginning, not slowly evolving in the way that Gothic grew out of Romanesque, but consciously brought to being by particular architects who sought to revive the order of a past \"Golden Age\". The scholarly approach to the architecture of the ancient coincided with the general revival of learning. A number of factors were influential in bringing this about.\n\nItalian architects had always preferred forms that were clearly defined and structural members that expressed their purpose. Many Tuscan Romanesque buildings demonstrate these characteristics, as seen in the Florence Baptistery and Pisa Cathedral.\n\nItaly had never fully adopted the Gothic style of architecture. Apart from the Cathedral of Milan, (influenced by French Rayonnant Gothic), few Italian churches show the emphasis on vertical, the clustered shafts, ornate tracery and complex ribbed vaulting that characterise Gothic in other parts of Europe.\n\nThe presence, particularly in Rome, of ancient architectural remains showing the ordered Classical style provided an inspiration to artists at a time when philosophy was also turning towards the Classical.\n\nIn the 15th century, Florence, Venice and Naples extended their power through much of the area that surrounded them, making the movement of artists possible. This enabled Florence to have significant artistic influence in Milan, and through Milan, France.\n\nIn 1377, the return of the Pope from the Avignon Papacy and the re-establishment of the Papal court in Rome, brought wealth and importance to that city, as well as a renewal in the importance of the Pope in Italy, which was further strengthened by the Council of Constance in 1417. Successive Popes, especially Julius II, 1503–13, sought to extend the Pope’s temporal power throughout Italy.\n\nIn the early Renaissance, Venice controlled sea trade over goods from the East. The large towns of Northern Italy were prosperous through trade with the rest of Europe, Genoa providing a seaport for the goods of France and Spain; Milan and Turin being centers of overland trade, and maintaining substantial metalworking industries.\nTrade brought wool from England to Florence, ideally located on the river for the production of fine cloth, the industry on which its wealth was founded. By dominating Pisa, Florence gained a seaport, and also maintained dominance of Genoa.\nIn this commercial climate, one family in particular turned their attention from trade to the lucrative business of money-lending. The Medici became the chief bankers to the princes of Europe, becoming virtually princes themselves as they did so, by reason of both wealth and influence.\nAlong the trade routes, and thus offered some protection by commercial interest, moved not only goods but also artists, scientists and philosophers.\n\nThe return of the Pope Gregory XI from Avignon in September 1377 and the resultant new emphasis on Rome as the center of Christian spirituality, brought about a boom in the building of churches in Rome such as had not taken place for nearly a thousand years. This commenced in the mid 15th century and gained momentum in the 16th century, reaching its peak in the Baroque period. The construction of the Sistine Chapel with its uniquely important decorations and the entire rebuilding of St Peter's, one of Christendom's most significant churches, were part of this process.\n\nIn wealthy republican Florence, the impetus for church-building was more civic than spiritual. The unfinished state of the enormous cathedral dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary did no honour to the city under her patronage. However, as the technology and finance were found to complete it, the rising dome did credit not only to the Blessed Virgin, its architect and the Church but also the Signoria, the Guilds and the sectors of the city from which the manpower to construct it was drawn. The dome inspired further religious works in Florence.\n\nThe development of printed books, the rediscovery of ancient writings, the expanding of political and trade contacts and the exploration of the world all increased knowledge and the desire for education.\n\nThe reading of philosophies that were not based on Christian theology led to the development of Humanism through which it was clear that while God had established and maintained order in the Universe, it was the role of Man to establish and maintain order in Society.\n\nThrough Humanism, civic pride and the promotion of civil peace and order were seen as the marks of citizenship. This led to the building of structures such as Brunelleschi's Hospital of the Innocents with its elegant colonnade forming a link between the charitable building and the public square, and the Laurentian Library where the collection of books established by the Medici family could be consulted by scholars.\n\nSome major ecclesiastical building works were also commissioned, not by the church, but by guilds representing the wealth and power of the city. Brunelleschi’s dome at Florence Cathedral, more than any other building, belonged to the populace because the construction of each of the eight segments was achieved by a different sector of the city.\n\nAs in the Platonic academy of Athens, it was seen by those of Humanist understanding that those people who had the benefit of wealth and education ought to promote the pursuit of learning and the creation of that which was beautiful. To this end, wealthy families—the Medici of Florence, the Gonzaga of Mantua, the Farnese in Rome, the Sforzas in Milan—gathered around them people of learning and ability, promoting the skills and creating employment for the most talented artists and architects of their day.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, architecture became not only a question of practice, but also a matter for theoretical discussion. Printing played a large role in the dissemination of ideas.\n\nHistorians often divide the Renaissance in Italy into three phases. Whereas art historians might talk of an \"Early Renaissance\" period, in which they include developments in 14th-century painting and sculpture, this is usually not the case in architectural history. The bleak economic conditions of the late 14th century did not produce buildings that are considered to be part of the Renaissance. As a result, the word \"Renaissance\" among architectural historians usually applies to the period 1400 to ca. 1525, or later in the case of non-Italian Renaissances.\n\nHistorians often use the following designations:\n\nIn the \"Quattrocento\", concepts of architectural order were explored and rules were formulated. (See- Characteristics of Renaissance Architecture, below.) The study of classical antiquity led in particular to the adoption of Classical detail and ornamentation.\n\nSpace, as an element of architecture, was used differently from the way it had been in the Middle Ages. Space was organised by proportional logic, its form and rhythm subject to geometry, rather than being created by intuition as in Medieval buildings. The prime example of this is the Basilica di San Lorenzo in Florence by Filippo Brunelleschi (1377–1446).\n\nDuring the \"High Renaissance\", concepts derived from classical antiquity were developed and used with greater confidence. The most representative architect is Bramante (1444–1514) who expanded the applicability of classical architecture to contemporary buildings. His San Pietro in Montorio (1503) was directly inspired by circular Roman temples. He was, however, hardly a slave to the classical forms and it was his style that was to dominate Italian architecture in the 16th century.\n\nDuring the Mannerist period, architects experimented with using architectural forms to emphasize solid and spatial relationships. The Renaissance ideal of harmony gave way to freer and more imaginative rhythms. The best known architect associated with the Mannerist style was Michelangelo (1475–1564), who frequently used the giant order in his architecture, a large pilaster that stretches from the bottom to the top of a façade. He used this in his design for the Campidoglio in Rome.\n\nPrior to the 20th century, the term \"Mannerism\" had negative connotations, but it is now used to describe the historical period in more general non-judgemental terms.\n\nAs the new style of architecture spread out from Italy, most other European countries developed a sort of Proto-Renaissance style, before the construction of fully formulated Renaissance buildings. Each country in turn then grafted its own architectural traditions to the new style, so that Renaissance buildings across Europe are diversified by region.\n\nWithin Italy the evolution of Renaissance architecture into Mannerism, with widely diverging tendencies in the work of Michelangelo and Giulio Romano and Andrea Palladio, led to the Baroque style in which the same architectural vocabulary was used for very different rhetoric.\n\nOutside Italy, Baroque architecture was more widespread and fully developed than the Renaissance style, with significant buildings as far afield as Mexico and the Philippines.\n\nThe obvious distinguishing features of Classical Roman architecture were adopted by Renaissance architects. However, the forms and purposes of buildings had changed over time, as had the structure of cities. Among the earliest buildings of the reborn Classicism were churches of a type that the Romans had never constructed. Neither were there models for the type of large city dwellings required by wealthy merchants of the 15th century. Conversely, there was no call for enormous sporting fixtures and public bath houses such as the Romans had built. The ancient orders were analysed and reconstructed to serve new purposes.\n\nThe plans of Renaissance buildings have a square, symmetrical appearance in which proportions are usually based on a module. Within a church, the module is often the width of an aisle. The need to integrate the design of the plan with the façade was introduced as an issue in the work of Filippo Brunelleschi, but he was never able to carry this aspect of his work into fruition. The first building to demonstrate this was St. Andrea in Mantua by Alberti. The development of the plan in secular architecture was to take place in the 16th century and culminated with the work of Palladio.\nFaçades are symmetrical around their vertical axis. Church façades are generally surmounted by a pediment and organised by a system of pilasters, arches and entablatures. The columns and windows show a progression towards the centre. One of the first true Renaissance façades was the Cathedral of Pienza (1459–62), which has been attributed to the Florentine architect Bernardo Gambarelli (known as Rossellino) with Alberti perhaps having some responsibility in its design as well.\n\nDomestic buildings are often surmounted by a cornice. There is a regular repetition of openings on each floor, and the centrally placed door is marked by a feature such as a balcony, or rusticated surround. An early and much copied prototype was the façade for the Palazzo Rucellai (1446 and 1451) in Florence with its three registers of pilasters\n\nThe Greek and Roman orders of columns are used:- Tuscan, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian and Composite. The orders can either be structural, supporting an arcade or architrave, or purely decorative, set against a wall in the form of pilasters. During the Renaissance, architects aimed to use columns, pilasters, and entablatures as an integrated system. One of the first buildings to use pilasters as an integrated system was in the Old Sacristy (1421–1440) by Brunelleschi.\n\nArches are semi-circular or (in the Mannerist style) segmental. Arches are often used in arcades, supported on piers or columns with capitals. There may be a section of entablature between the capital and the springing of the arch. Alberti was one of the first to use the arch on a monumental scale at the St. Andrea in Mantua.\n\nVaults do not have ribs. They are semi-circular or segmental and on a square plan, unlike the Gothic vault which is frequently rectangular. The barrel vault is returned to architectural vocabulary as at the St. Andrea in Mantua.\n\nThe dome is used frequently, both as a very large structural feature that is visible from the exterior, and also as a means of roofing smaller spaces where they are only visible internally. After the success of the dome in Brunelleschi’s design for the Basilica di Santa Maria del Fiore and its use in Bramante’s plan for St. Peter's Basilica (1506) in Rome, the dome became an indispensable element in church architecture and later even for secular architecture, such as Palladio's Villa Rotonda.\n\nRoofs are fitted with flat or coffered ceilings. They are not left open as in Medieval architecture. They are frequently painted or decorated.\n\nDoors usually have square lintels. They may be set within an arch or surmounted by a triangular or segmental pediment.\nOpenings that do not have doors are usually arched and frequently have a large or decorative keystone.\n\nWindows may be paired and set within a semi-circular arch. They may have square lintels and triangular or segmental pediments, which are often used alternately. Emblematic in this respect is the Palazzo Farnese in Rome, begun in 1517.\n\nIn the Mannerist period the “Palladian” arch was employed, using a motif of a high semi-circular topped opening flanked with two lower square-topped openings. Windows are used to bring light into the building and in domestic architecture, to give views. Stained glass, although sometimes present, is not a feature.\n\nExternal walls are generally constructed of brick, rendered, or faced with stone in highly finished ashlar masonry, laid in straight courses. The corners of buildings are often emphasised by rusticated quoins. Basements and ground floors were often rusticated, as at the Palazzo Medici Riccardi (1444–1460) in Florence. Internal walls are smoothly plastered and surfaced with lime wash. For more formal spaces, internal surfaces are decorated with frescoes.\n\nCourses, mouldings and all decorative details are carved with great precision. Studying and mastering the details of the ancient Romans was one of the important aspects of Renaissance theory. The different orders each required different sets of details. Some architects were stricter in their use of classical details than others, but there was also a good deal of innovation in solving problems, especially at corners. Mouldings stand out around doors and windows rather than being recessed, as in Gothic Architecture. Sculptured figures may be set in niches or placed on plinths. They are not integral to the building as in Medieval architecture.\n\nThe leading architects of the Early Renaissance or Quattrocento were Brunelleschi, Michelozzo and Alberti.\n\nThe person generally credited with bringing about the Renaissance view of architecture is Filippo Brunelleschi, (1377–1446). The underlying feature of the work of Brunelleschi was \"order\".\n\nIn the early 15th century, Brunelleschi began to look at the world to see what the rules were that governed one's way of seeing. He observed that the way one sees regular structures such as the Baptistery of Florence and the tiled pavement surrounding it follows a mathematical order—linear perspective.\n\nThe buildings remaining among the ruins of ancient Rome appeared to respect a simple mathematical order in the way that Gothic buildings did not. One incontrovertible rule governed all Ancient Roman architecture—a semi-circular arch is exactly twice as wide as it is high. A fixed proportion with implications of such magnitude occurred nowhere in Gothic architecture. A Gothic pointed arch could be extended upwards or flattened to any proportion that suited the location. Arches of differing angles frequently occurred within the same structure. No set rules of proportion applied.\n\nFrom the observation of the architecture of Rome came a desire for symmetry and careful proportion in which the form and composition of the building as a whole and all its subsidiary details have fixed relationships, each section in proportion to the next, and the architectural features serving to define exactly what those rules of proportion are. Brunelleschi gained the support of a number of wealthy Florentine patrons, including the Silk Guild and Cosimo de' Medici.\n\nBrunelleschi's first major architectural commission was for the enormous brick dome which covers the central space of Florence's cathedral, designed by Arnolfo di Cambio in the 14th century but left unroofed. While often described as the first building of the Renaissance, Brunelleschi's daring design uses the pointed Gothic arch and Gothic ribs that were apparently planned by Arnolfio. It seems certain, however, that while stylistically Gothic, in keeping with the building it surmounts, the dome is in fact structurally influenced by the great dome of Ancient Rome, which Brunelleschi could hardly have ignored in seeking a solution. This is the dome of the Pantheon, a circular temple, now a church.\n\nInside the Pantheon's single-shell concrete dome is coffering which greatly decreases the weight. The vertical partitions of the coffering effectively serve as ribs, although this feature does not dominate visually. At the apex of the Pantheon's dome is an opening, 8 meters across. Brunelleschi was aware that a dome of enormous proportion could in fact be engineered without a keystone. The dome in Florence is supported by the eight large ribs and sixteen more internal ones holding a brick shell, with the bricks arranged in a herringbone manner. Although the techniques employed are different, in practice both domes comprise a thick network of ribs supporting very much lighter and thinner infilling. And both have a large opening at the top.\n\nThe new architectural philosophy of the Renaissance is best demonstrated in the churches of San Lorenzo, and Santo Spirito in Florence. Designed by Brunelleschi in about 1425 and 1428 respectively, both have the shape of the Latin cross. Each has a modular plan, each portion being a multiple of the square bay of the aisle. This same formula controlled also the vertical dimensions. In the case of Santo Spirito, which is entirely regular in plan, transepts and chancel are identical, while the nave is an extended version of these. In 1434 Brunelleschi designed the first Renaissance centrally planned building, Santa Maria degli Angeli of Florence. It is composed of a central octagon surrounded by a circuit of eight smaller chapels. From this date onwards numerous churches were built in variations of these designs.\n\nMichelozzo Michelozzi (1396–1472), was another architect under patronage of the Medici family, his most famous work being the Palazzo Medici Riccardi, which he was commissioned to design for Cosimo de' Medici in 1444. A decade later he built the Villa Medici at Fiesole. Among his other works for Cosimo are the library at the Convent of San Marco, Florence. He went into exile in Venice for a time with his patron. He was one of the first architects to work in the Renaissance style outside Italy, building a palace at Dubrovnik.\n\nThe Palazzo Medici Riccardi is Classical in the details of its pedimented windows and recessed doors, but, unlike the works of Brunelleschi and Alberti, there are no \"orders\" of columns in evidence. Instead, Michelozzo has respected the Florentine liking for rusticated stone. He has seemingly created three orders out of the three defined rusticated levels, the whole being surmounted by an enormous Roman-style cornice which juts out over the street by 2.5 meters.\n\nLeon Battista Alberti, born in Genoa (1402–1472), was an important Humanist theoretician and designer whose book on architecture \"De re Aedificatoria\" was to have lasting effect. An aspect of Humanism was an emphasis of the anatomy of nature, in particular the human form, a science first studied by the Ancient Greeks. Humanism made man the measure of things. Alberti perceived the architect as a person with great social responsibilities.\nHe designed a number of buildings, but unlike Brunelleschi, he did not see himself as a builder in a practical sense and so left the supervision of the work to others. Miraculously, one of his greatest designs, that of the Church of Sant'Andrea in Mantua, was brought to completion with its character essentially intact. Not so the church of San Francesco in Rimini, a rebuilding of a Gothic structure, which, like Sant'Andrea, was to have a façade reminiscent of a Roman triumphal arch. This was left sadly incomplete.\n\nSant'Andrea is an extremely dynamic building both without and within. Its triumphal façade is marked by extreme contrasts. The projection of the order of pilasters that define the architectural elements, but are essentially non-functional, is very shallow. This contrasts with the gaping deeply recessed arch which makes a huge portico before the main door. The size of this arch is in direct contrast to the two low square-topped openings that frame it. The light and shade play dramatically over the surface of the building because of the shallowness of its mouldings and the depth of its porch. In the interior Alberti has dispensed with the traditional nave and aisles. Instead there is a slow and majestic progression of alternating tall arches and low square doorways, repeating the \"triumphal arch\" motif of the façade.\n\nTwo of Alberti’s best known buildings are in Florence, the Palazzo Rucellai and at Santa Maria Novella. For the palace, Alberti applied the classical orders of columns to the façade on the three levels, 1446–51. At Santa Maria Novella he was commissioned to finish the decoration of the façade. He completed the design in 1456 but the work was not finished until 1470.\n\nThe lower section of the building had Gothic niches and typical polychrome marble decoration. There was a large ocular window in the end of the nave which had to be taken into account. Alberti simply respected what was already in place, and the Florentine tradition for polychrome that was well established at the Baptistery of San Giovanni, the most revered building in the city. The decoration, being mainly polychrome marble, is mostly very flat in nature, but a sort of order is established by the regular compartments and the circular motifs which repeat the shape of the round window. For the first time, Alberti linked the lower roofs of the aisles to nave using two large scrolls. These were to become a standard Renaissance device for solving the problem of different roof heights and bridge the space between horizontal and vertical surfaces.\n\nIn the 15th century the courts of certain other Italian states became centres for spreading of Renaissance philosophy, art and architecture.\n\nIn Mantua at the court of the Gonzaga, Alberti designed two churches, the Basilica of Sant'Andrea and San Sebastiano.\n\nUrbino was an important centre with the ancient ducal palace being extended for Federico da Montefeltro in the mid 15th century. The duke employed Luciano Laurana from Dalmatia, renowned for his expertise at fortification. The design incorporates much of the earlier medieval building and includes an unusual turreted three-storeyed façade. Laurana was assisted by Francesco di Giorgio Martini. Later parts of the building are clearly Florentine in style, particularly the inner courtyard, but it is not known who the designer was.\n\nFerrara, under the Este, was expanded in the late fifteenth century, with several new palaces being built such as the Palazzo dei Diamanti and Palazzo Schifanoia for Borso d'Este. In Milan, under the Visconti, the Certosa di Pavia was completed, and then later under the Sforza, the Castello Sforzesco was built.\n\nIn Venice, San Zaccaria received its Renaissance façade at the hands of Antonio Gambello and Mauro Codussi, begun in the 1480s. Giovanni Maria Falconetto, the Veronese architect-sculptor, introduced Renaissance architecture to Padua with the Loggia Cornaro in the garden of Alvise Cornaro.\n\nIn southern Italy, Renaissance masters were called to Naples by Alfonso V of Aragon after his conquest of the Kingdom of Naples. The most notable examples of Renaissance architecture in that city are the Cappella Caracciolo, attributed to Bramante, and the Palazzo Orsini di Gravina, built by Gabriele d'Angelo between 1513 and 1549.\n\nIn the late 15th century and early 16th century, architects such as Bramante, Antonio da Sangallo the Younger and others showed a mastery of the revived style and ability to apply it to buildings such as churches and city palazzo which were quite different from the structures of ancient times. The style became more decorated and ornamental, statuary, domes and cupolas becoming very evident.\nThe architectural period is known as the \"High Renaissance\" and coincides with the age of Leonardo, Michelangelo and Raphael.\n\nDonato Bramante, (1444–1514), was born in Urbino and turned from painting to architecture, finding his first important patronage under Ludovico Sforza, Duke of Milan, for whom he produced a number of buildings over 20 years. After the fall of Milan to the French in 1499, Bramante travelled to Rome where he achieved great success under papal patronage.\n\nBramante’s finest architectural achievement in Milan is his addition of crossing and choir to the abbey church of Santa Maria delle Grazie (Milan). This is a brick structure, the form of which owes much to the Northern Italian tradition of square domed baptisteries. The new building is almost centrally planned, except that, because of the site, the chancel extends further than the transept arms. The hemispherical dome, of approximately 20 metres across, rises up hidden inside an octagonal drum pierced at the upper level with arched classical openings. The whole exterior has delineated details decorated with the local terracotta ornamentation.\n\nIn Rome Bramante created what has been described as \"a perfect architectural gem\", the Tempietto in the Cloister of San Pietro in Montorio. This small circular temple marks the spot where St Peter was martyred and is thus the most sacred site in Rome. The building adapts the style apparent in the remains of the Temple of Vesta, the most sacred site of Ancient Rome. It is enclosed by and in spatial contrast with the cloister which surrounds it. As approached from the cloister, as in the picture above, it is seen framed by an arch and columns, the shape of which are echoed in its free-standing form.\n\nBramante went on to work at the Vatican where he designed the impressive Cortili of St. Damaso and of the Belvedere. In 1506 Bramante’s design for Pope Julius II’s rebuilding of St. Peter’s Basilica was selected, and the foundation stone laid. After Bramante’s death and many changes of plan, Michelangelo, as chief architect, reverted to something closer to Bramante’s original proposal. \n\nAntonio da Sangallo the Younger, (1485–1546), was one of a family of military engineers. His uncle, Giuliano da Sangallo was one of those who submitted a plan for the rebuilding of St Peter’s and was briefly a co-director of the project, with Raphael.\n\nAntonio da Sangallo also submitted a plan for St Peter’s and became the chief architect after the death of Raphael, to be succeeded himself by Michelangelo.\n\nHis fame does not rest upon his association with St Peter’s but in his building of the Farnese Palace, “the grandest palace of this period”, started in 1530. The impression of grandness lies in part in its sheer size, (56 m long by 29.5 meters high) and in its lofty location overlooking a broad piazza. It is also a building of beautiful proportion, unusual for such a large and luxurious house of the date in having been built principally of stuccoed brick, rather than of stone. Against the smooth pink-washed walls the stone quoins of the corners, the massive rusticated portal and the stately repetition of finely detailed windows give a powerful effect, setting a new standard of elegance in palace-building. The upper of the three equally sized floors was added by Michelangelo. It is probably just as well that this impressive building is of brick; the travertine for its architectural details came not from a quarry, but from the Colosseum.\n\nRaphael, (1483–1520), Urbino, trained under Perugino in Perugia before moving to Florence, was for a time the chief architect for St. Peter’s, working in conjunction with Antonio Sangallo. He also designed a number of buildings, most of which were finished by others. His single most influential work is the Palazzo Pandolfini in Florence with its two stories of strongly articulated windows of a \"tabernacle\" type, each set around with ordered pilasters, cornice and alternate arched and triangular pediments.\n\nMannerism in architecture was marked by widely diverging tendencies in the work of Michelangelo, Giulio Romano, Baldassare Peruzzi and Andrea Palladio, that led to the Baroque style in which the same architectural vocabulary was used for very different rhetoric.\nBaldassare Peruzzi, (1481–1536), was an architect born in Siena, but working in Rome, whose work bridges the High Renaissance and the Mannerist.\nHis Villa Farnesina of 1509 is a very regular monumental cube of two equal stories, the bays being strongly articulated by orders of pilasters. The building is unusual for its frescoed walls.\n\nPeruzzi’s most famous work is the Palazzo Massimo alle Colonne in Rome. The unusual features of this building are that its façade curves gently around a curving street. It has in its ground floor a dark central portico running parallel to the street, but as a semi enclosed space, rather than an open loggia. Above this rise three undifferentiated floors, the upper two with identical small horizontal windows in thin flat frames which contrast strangely with the deep porch, which has served, from the time of its construction, as a refuge to the city’s poor.\n\nGiulio Romano (1499–1546), was a pupil of Raphael, assisting him on various works for the Vatican. Romano was also a highly inventive designer, working for Federico II Gonzaga at Mantua on the Palazzo Te, (1524–1534), a project which combined his skills as architect, sculptor and painter. In this work, incorporating garden grottoes and extensive frescoes, he uses illusionistic effects, surprising combinations of architectural form and texture, and the frequent use of features that seem somewhat disproportionate or out of alignment. The total effect is eerie and disturbing. Ilan Rachum cites Romano as \"“one of the first promoters of Mannerism”\".\n\nMichelangelo Buonarroti (1475–1564) was one of the creative giants whose achievements mark the High Renaissance. He excelled in each of the fields of painting, sculpture and architecture and his achievements brought about significant changes in each area. His architectural fame lies chiefly in two buildings: the interiors of the Laurentian Library and its lobby at the monastery of San Lorenzo in Florence, and St Peter's Basilica in Rome.\n\nSt Peter's was \"the greatest creation of the Renaissance\", and a great number of architects contributed their skills to it. But at its completion, there was more of Michelangelo’s design than of any other architect, before or after him.\n\nThe plan that was accepted at the laying of the foundation stone in 1506 was that by Bramante. Various changes in plan occurred in the series of architects that succeeded him, but Michelangelo, when he took over the project in 1546, reverted to Bramante’s Greek-cross plan and redesigned the piers, the walls and the dome, giving the lower weight-bearing members massive proportions and eliminating the encircling aisles from the chancel and identical transept arms. Helen Gardner says: \"Michelangelo, with a few strokes of the pen, converted its snowflake complexity into a massive, cohesive unity.\"\n\nMichelangelo’s dome was a masterpiece of design using two masonry shells, one within the other and crowned by a massive lantern supported, as at Florence, on ribs. For the exterior of the building he designed a giant order which defines every external bay, the whole lot being held together by a wide cornice which runs unbroken like a rippling ribbon around the entire building.\n\nThere is a wooden model of the dome, showing its outer shell as hemispherical. When Michelangelo died in 1564, the building had reached the height of the drum. The architect who succeeded Michelangelo was Giacomo della Porta. The dome, as built, has a much steeper projection than the dome of the model. It is generally presumed that it was della Porta who made this change to the design, to lessen the outward thrust. But, in fact it is unknown who it was that made this change, and it is equally possible and a stylistic likelihood that the person who decided upon the more dynamic outline was Michelangelo himself at some time during the years that he supervised the project.\n\nMichelangelo was at his most Mannerist in the design of the vestibule of the Laurentian Library, also built by him to house the Medici collection of books at the convent of San Lorenzo in Florence, the same San Lorenzo’s at which Brunelleschi had recast church architecture into a Classical mold and established clear formula for the use of Classical orders and their various components.\n\nMichelangelo takes all Brunelleschi’s components and bends them to his will. The Library is upstairs. It is a long low building with an ornate wooden ceiling, a matching floor and crowded with corrals finished by his successors to Michelangelo’s design. But it is a light room, the natural lighting streaming through a long row of windows that appear positively crammed between the order of pilasters that march along the wall. The vestibule, on the other hand, is tall, taller than it is wide and is crowded by a large staircase that pours out of the library in what Pevsner refers to as a “flow of lava”, and bursts in three directions when it meets the balustrade of the landing. It is an intimidating staircase, made all the more so because the rise of the stairs at the center is steeper than at the two sides, fitting only eight steps into the space of nine.\n\nThe space is crowded and it is to be expected that the wall spaces would be divided by pilasters of low projection. But Michelangelo has chosen to use paired columns, which, instead of standing out boldly from the wall, he has sunk deep into recesses within the wall itself. In San Lorenzo's church nearby, Brunelleschi used little scrolling console brackets to break the strongly horizontal line of the course above the arcade. Michelangelo has borrowed Brunelleschi’s motifs and stood each pair of sunken columns on a pair of twin console brackets. Pevsner says the \"“Laurenziana... reveals Mannerism in its most sublime architectural form”\".\nGiacomo della Porta, (c.1533–1602), was famous as the architect who made the dome of St Peter’s Basilica a reality. The change in outline between the dome as it appears in the model and the dome as it was built, has brought about speculation as to whether the changes originated with della Porta or with Michelangelo himself.\n\nDella Porta spent nearly all his working life in Rome, designing villas, palazzi and churches in the Mannerist style. One of his most famous works is the façade of the Church of the Gesù, a project that he inherited from his teacher Jacopo Barozzi da Vignola. Most characteristics of the original design are maintained, subtly transformed to give more weight to the central section, where della Porta uses, among other motifs, a low triangular pediment overlaid on a segmental one above the main door. The upper storey and its pediment give the impression of compressing the lower one. The center section, like that of Sant'Andrea at Mantua, is based on the Triumphal Arch, but has two clear horizontal divisions like Santa Maria Novella. The problem of linking the aisles to the nave is solved using Alberti’s scrolls, in contrast to Vignola’s solution which provided much smaller brackets and four statues to stand above the paired pilasters, visually weighing down the corners of the building. The influence of the design may be seen in Baroque churches throughout Europe.\n\nAndrea Palladio, (1508–80), \"the most influential architect of the whole Renaissance\"', was, as a stonemason, introduced to Humanism by the poet Giangiorgio Trissino. His first major architectural commission was the rebuilding of the Basilica Palladiana at Vicenza, in the Veneto where he was to work most of his life.\n\nPalladio was to transform the architectural style of both palaces and churches by taking a different perspective on the notion of Classicism. While the architects of Florence and Rome looked to structures like the Colosseum and the Arch of Constantine to provide formulae, Palladio looked to classical temples with their simple peristyle form. When he used the “triumphal arch” motif of a large arched opening with lower square-topped opening on either side, he invariably applied it on a small scale, such as windows, rather than on a large scale as Alberti used it at Sant’Andrea’s. This Ancient Roman motif is often referred to as the \"Palladian Arch\".\n\nThe best known of Palladio’s domestic buildings is Villa Capra, otherwise known as \"la Rotonda\", a centrally planned house with a domed central hall and four identical façades, each with a temple-like portico like that of the Pantheon in Rome. At the Villa Cornaro, the projecting portico of the north façade and recessed loggia of the garden façade are of two ordered stories, the upper forming a balcony.\n\nLike Alberti, della Porta and others, in the designing of a church façade, Palladio was confronted by the problem of visually linking the aisles to the nave while maintaining and defining the structure of the building. Palladio’s solution was entirely different from that employed by della Porta. At the church of San Giorgio Maggiore in Venice he overlays a tall temple, its columns raised on high plinths, over another low wide temple façade, its columns rising from the basements and its narrow lintel and pilasters appearing behind the giant order of the central nave.\n\nIn Italy, there appears to be a seamless progression from Early Renaissance architecture through the High Renaissance and Mannerist to the Baroque style. Pevsner comments about the vestibule of the Laurentian Library that it \"has often been said that the motifs of the walls show Michelangelo as the father of the Baroque\".\n\nWhile continuity may be the case in Italy, it was not necessarily the case elsewhere. The adoption of the Renaissance style of architecture was slower in some areas than in others, as may be seen in England, for example. Indeed, as Pope Julius II was having the ancient Basilica of St. Peter’s demolished to make way for the new, Henry VII of England was adding a glorious new chapel in the Perpendicular Gothic style to Westminster Abbey.\n\nLikewise, the style that was to become known as Baroque evolved in Italy in the early 17th century, at about the time that the first fully Renaissance buildings were constructed at Greenwich and Whitehall in England, after a prolonged period of experimentation with Classical motifs applied to local architectural forms, or conversely, the adoption of Renaissance structural forms in the broadest sense with an absence of the formulae that governed their use. While the English were just discovering what the rules of Classicism were, the Italians were experimenting with methods of breaking them. In England, following the Restoration of the Monarchy in 1660, the architectural climate changed, and taste moved in the direction of the Baroque. Rather than evolving, as it did in Italy, it arrived fully fledged.\n\nIn a similar way, in many parts of Europe that had few purely classical and ordered buildings like Brunelleschi’s Santo Spirito and Michelozzo’s Medici Riccardi Palace, Baroque architecture appeared almost unheralded, on the heels of a sort of Proto-Renaissance local style. The spread of the Baroque and its replacement of traditional and more conservative Renaissance architecture was particularly apparent in the building of churches as part of the Counter Reformation.\nThe 16th century saw the economic and political ascendancy of France and Spain, and then later of Holland, England, Germany and Russia. The result was that these places began to import the Renaissance style as indicators of their new cultural position. This also meant that it was not until about 1500 and later that signs of Renaissance architectural style began to appear outside Italy.\n\nThough Italian architects were highly sought after, such as Sebastiano Serlio in France, Aristotile Fioravanti in Russia, and Francesco Fiorentino in Poland, soon, non-Italians were studying Italian architecture and translating it into their own idiom. These included Philibert de l'Orme (1510–1570) in France, Juan Bautista de Toledo (died: 1567) in Spain, Inigo Jones (1573–1652) in England and Elias Holl (1573–1646) in Germany.\n\nBooks or ornament prints with engraved illustrations demonstrating plans and ornament were very important in spreading Renaissance styles in Northern Europe, with among the most important authors being Androuet du Cerceau in France, and Hans Vredeman de Vries in the Netherlands, and Wendel Dietterlin, author of \"Architectura\" (1593–94) in Germany.\n\nIn the 15th century, Croatia was divided into three states – the northern and central part of Croatia and Slavonia were in union with the Kingdom of Hungary, while Dalmatia, with the exception of independent Dubrovnik, was under the rule of the Venetian Republic. The Cathedral of St.James in Šibenik, was begun in 1441 in the Gothic style by Giorgio da Sebenico \"(Juraj Dalmatinac)\". Its unusual construction does not use mortar, the stone blocks, pilasters and ribs being bonded with joints and slots in the way that was usual in wooden constructions. In 1477 the work was unfinished, and continued under Niccolò di Giovanni Fiorentino who respected the mode of construction and the plan of the former architect, but continued the work which includes the upper windows, the vaults and the dome, in the Renaissance style. The combination of a high barrel vault with lower half-barrel vaults over the aisles the gives the façade its distinctive trefoil shape, the first of this type in the region. The cathedral was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage List in 2001.\n\nOne of the earliest places to be influenced by the Renaissance style of architecture was the Kingdom of Hungary. The style appeared following the marriage of King Matthias Corvinus and Beatrice of Naples in 1476. Many Italian artists, craftsmen and masons arrived at Buda with the new queen. Important remains of the Early Renaissance summer palace of King Matthias can be found in Visegrád. The Ottoman conquest of Hungary after 1526 cut short the development of Renaissance architecture in the country and destroyed its most famous examples. Today, the only completely preserved work of Hungarian Renaissance architecture is the Bakócz Chapel (commissioned by the Hungarian cardinal Tamás Bakócz), now part of the Esztergom Basilica.\nPrince Ivan III introduced Renaissance architecture to Russia by inviting a number of architects from Italy, who brought new construction techniques and some Renaissance style elements with them, while in general following the traditional designs of the Russian architecture. In 1475 the Bolognese architect Aristotele Fioravanti came to rebuild the Cathedral of the Dormition in the Moscow Kremlin, damaged in an earthquake. Fioravanti was given the 12th-century Vladimir Cathedral as a model, and produced a design combining traditional Russian style with a Renaissance sense of spaciousness, proportion and symmetry.\n\nIn 1485 Ivan III commissioned the building of a royal Terem Palace within the Kremlin, with Aloisio da Milano being the architect of the first three floors. Aloisio da Milano, as well as the other Italian architects, also greatly contributed to the construction of the Kremlin walls and towers. The small banqueting hall of the Russian Tsars, called the Palace of Facets because of its facetted upper story, is the work of two Italians, Marco Ruffo and Pietro Solario, and shows a more Italian style. In 1505, an Italian known in Russia as Aleviz Novyi built 12 churches for Ivan III, including the Cathedral of the Archangel, a building remarkable for the successful blending of Russian tradition, Orthodox requirements and Renaissance style.\n\nPolish Renaissance architecture is divided into three periods:\nThe First period (1500–50), is the so-called \"Italian\". Most of Renaissance buildings were building of this time were by Italian architects, mainly from Florence including Francesco Fiorentino and Bartolomeo Berrecci (Wawel Courtyard, Sigismund's Chapel).\n\nIn the Second period (1550–1600), Renaissance architecture became more common, with the beginnings of Mannerist and under the influence of the Netherlands, particularly in Pomerania. Buildings include the New Cloth Hall in Kraków and city halls in Tarnów, Sandomierz, Chełm (demolished) and most famously in Poznań.\n\nIn the Third period (1600–50), the rising power of Jesuits and Counter Reformation gave impetus to the development of Mannerist architecture and Baroque.\nThe Renaissance style first appeared in the Crown of Bohemia in the 1490s. Bohemia together with its incorporated lands, especially Moravia, thus ranked among the areas of the Holy Roman Empire with the earliest known examples of the Renaissance architecture.\n\nThe lands of the Bohemian Crown were never part of the ancient Roman Empire, thus they missed their own ancient classical heritage and had to be dependent on the primarily Italian models. As well as in other Central European countries the Gothic style kept its position especially in the church architecture. The traditional Gothic architecture was considered timeless and therefore able to express the sacredness. The Renaissance architecture coexisted with the Gothic style in Bohemia and Moravia until the late 16th century (e. g. the residential part of a palace was built in the modern Renaissance style but its chapel was designed with Gothic elements). The façades of Czech Renaissance buildings were often decorated with sgraffito (figural or ornamental).\n\nDuring the reign of Holy Roman Emperor and Bohemian King Rudolph II, the city of Prague became one of the most important European centers of the late Renaissance art (so-called Mannerism). Nevertheless, not many architecturally significant buildings have been preserved from that time.\n\nDuring the early years of the 16th century the French were involved in wars in northern Italy, bringing back to France not just the Renaissance art treasures as their war booty, but also stylistic ideas. In the Loire Valley a wave of building was carried and many Renaissance châteaux appeared at this time, the earliest example being the Château d'Amboise (c. 1495) in which Leonardo da Vinci spent his last years. The style became dominant under Francis I (See Châteaux of the Loire Valley).\n\nAs in painting, Renaissance architecture took some time to reach the Netherlands and did not entirely supplant the Gothic elements. An architect directly influenced by the Italian masters was Cornelis Floris de Vriendt, who designed the city hall of Antwerpen, finished in 1564. The style sometimes known as \"Antwerp Mannerism\", keeping a similar overall structure to late-Gothic buildings, but with larger windows and much florid decoration and detailing in Renaissance styles, was widely influential across Northern Europe, for example in Elizabethan architecture, and is part of the wider movement of Northern Mannerism.\n\nIn the early 17th century Dutch Republic, Hendrick de Keyser played an important role in developing the Amsterdam Renaissance style, which has local characteristics including the prevalence of tall narrow town-houses, the \"trapgevel\" or Dutch gable and the employment of decorative triangular pediments over doors and windows in which the apex rises much more steeply than in most other Renaissance architecture, but in keeping with the profile of the gable. Carved stone details are often of low profile, in strapwork resembling leatherwork, a stylistic feature originating in the School of Fontainebleau. This feature was exported to England.\nThe Renaissance in Germany was inspired first by German philosophers and artists such as Albrecht Dürer and Johannes Reuchlin who visited Italy. Important early examples of this period are especially the Landshut Residence, the Castle in Heidelberg, Johannisburg Palace in Aschaffenburg, Schloss Weilburg, the City Hall and Fugger Houses in Augsburg and St. Michael in Munich. A particular form of Renaissance architecture in Germany is the Weser Renaissance, with prominent examples such as the City Hall of Bremen and the Juleum in Helmstedt.\n\nIn July 1567 the city council of Cologne approved a design in the Renaissance style by Wilhelm Vernukken for a two storied loggia for Cologne City Hall. St Michael in Munich is the largest Renaissance church north of the Alps. It was built by Duke William V of Bavaria between 1583 and 1597 as a spiritual center for the Counter Reformation and was inspired by the Church of il Gesù in Rome. The architect is unknown. Many examples of Brick Renaissance buildings can be found in Hanseatic old towns, such as Stralsund, Wismar, Lübeck, Lüneburg, Friedrichstadt and Stade. Notable German Renaissance architects include Friedrich Sustris, Benedikt Rejt, Abraham van den Blocke, Elias Holl and Hans Krumpper.\nRenaissance architecture arrived in England during the reign of Elizabeth I, having first spread through the Low countries where among other features it acquired versions of the Dutch gable, and Flemish strapwork in geometric designs adorning the walls. The new style tended to manifest itself in large square tall houses such as Longleat House.\n\nThe first great exponent of Italian Renaissance architecture in England was Inigo Jones (1573–1652), who had studied architecture in Italy where the influence of Palladio was very strong. Jones returned to England full of enthusiasm for the new movement and immediately began to design such buildings as the Queen's House at Greenwich in 1616 and the Banqueting House at Whitehall three years later. These works, with their clean lines, and symmetry were revolutionary in a country still enamoured with mullion windows, crenellations and turrets.\n\nIn Spain, Renaissance began to be grafted to Gothic forms in the last decades of the 15th century. The new style is called Plateresque, because of the extremely decorated façade, that brought to the mind the decorative motifs of the intricately detailed work of silversmiths, the \"Plateros\". Classical orders and candelabra motifs (\"a candelieri\") combined freely into symmetrical wholes.\n\nFrom the mid-sixteenth century, under such architects as Pedro Machuca, Juan Bautista de Toledo and Juan de Herrera there was a closer adherence to the art of ancient Rome, sometimes anticipating Mannerism, examples of which include the palace of Charles V in Granada and the Escorial.\n\nAs in Spain, the adoption of the Renaissance style in Portugal was gradual. The so-called Manueline style (c. 1490–1535) married Renaissance elements to Gothic structures with the superficial application of exuberant ornament similar to the Isabelline Gothic of Spain. Examples of Manueline include the Belém Tower, a defensive building of Gothic form decorated with Renaissance-style loggias, and the Jerónimos Monastery, with Renaissance ornaments decorating portals, columns and cloisters.\n\nThe first \"pure\" Renaissance structures appear under King John III, like the Chapel of Nossa Senhora da Conceição in Tomar (1532–40), the \"Porta Especiosa\" of Coimbra Cathedral and the Graça Church at Évora (c. 1530–1540), as well as the cloisters of the Cathedral of Viseu (c. 1528–1534) and Convent of Christ in Tomar (John III Cloisters, 1557–1591). The Lisbon buildings of São Roque Church (1565–87) and the Mannerist Monastery of São Vicente de Fora (1582–1629), strongly influenced religious architecture in both Portugal and its colonies in the next centuries.\n\nThe Renaissance architecture that found its way to Scandinavia was influenced by the Flemish architecture, and included high gables and a castle air as demonstrated in the architecture of Frederiksborg Palace. Consequently, much of the Neo-Renaissance to be found in the Scandinavian countries is derived from this source.\n\nIn Denmark, Renaissance architecture thrived during the reigns of Frederick II and especially Christian IV. Inspired by the French castles of the times, Flemish architects designed masterpieces such as Kronborg Castle in Helsingør and Frederiksborg Palace in Hillerød. Frederiksborg Palace (1602–1620) in Hillerod is the largest Renaissance palace in Scandinavia.\n\nElsewhere, in Sweden, with Gustav Vasa's seizure of power and the onset of the Protestant reformation, church construction and aristocratic building projects came to a near standstill. During this time period, several magnificent so-called Vasa castles appeared. They were erected at strategic locations to control the country as well as to accommodate the travelling royal court. Gripsholm Castle, Kalmar Castle and Vadstena Castle are known for their fusion of medieval elements with Renaissance architecture.\n\nThe architecture of Norway was influenced partly by the occurrence of the plague during the Renaissance era. After the Black Death, monumental construction in Norway came to a standstill. There are few examples of Renaissance architecture in Norway, the most prominent being renovations to the medieval Rosenkrantz Tower in Bergen, Barony Rosendal in Hardanger, and the contemporary Austrat manor near Trondheim, and parts of Akershus Fortress.\n\nThere is little evidence of Renaissance influence in Finnish architecture.\n\nThe Renaissance arrived late in what is today Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the so-called Baltic States, and did not make a great imprint architecturally. It was a politically tumultuous time, marked by the decline of the State of the Teutonic Order and the Livonian War.\n\nIn Estonia, artistic influences came from Dutch, Swedish and Polish sources. The building of the Brotherhood of the Blackheads in Tallinn with a façade designed by Arent Passer, is the only truly Renaissance building in the country that has survived more or less intact. Significantly for these troubled times, the only other examples are purely military buildings, such as the \"Fat Margaret\" cannon tower, also in Tallinn.\n\nLatvian Renaissance architecture was influenced by Polish-Lithuanian and Dutch style, with Mannerism following from Gothic without intermediaries. St. John's Church in the Latvian capital of Riga is example of an earlier Gothic church which was reconstructed in 1587–89 by the Dutch architect Gert Freze (Joris Phraeze). The prime example of Renaissance architecture in Latvia is the heavily decorated House of the Blackheads, rebuilt from an earlier Medieval structure into its present Mannerist forms as late as 1619–25 by the architects A. and L. Jansen. It was destroyed during World War II and rebuilt during the 1990s.\n\nLithuania meanwhile formed one half of the large Polish-Lithuanian commonwealth. Renaissance influences grew stronger during the reign of the Grand Dukes of Lithuania Sigismund I the Old and Sigismund II Augustus. The Palace of the Grand Dukes of Lithuania (destroyed in 1801, a copy built in 2002–2009) show Italian influences. Several architects of Italian origin were active in the country, including Bernardino Zanobi de Gianotis, Giovanni Cini and Giovanni Maria Mosca.\n\nDuring the 19th century there was a conscious revival of the style in Renaissance Revival architecture, that paralleled the Gothic Revival. Whereas the Gothic style was perceived by architectural theorists as being the most appropriate style for Church building, the Renaissance palazzo was a good model for urban secular buildings requiring an appearance of dignity and reliability such as banks, gentlemen's clubs and apartment blocks. Buildings that sought to impress, such as the Paris Opera, were often of a more Mannerist or Baroque style. Architects of factories, office blocks and department stores continued to use the Renaissance palazzo form into the 20th century, in Mediterranean Revival Style architecture with an Italian Renaissance emphasis.\n\nMany of the concepts and forms of Renaissance architecture can be traced through subsequent architectural movements—from Renaissance to High-Renaissance, to Mannerism, to Baroque (or Rococo), to Neo-Classicism, and to Eclecticism. While Renaissance style and motifs were largely purged from Modernism, they have been reasserted in some Postmodern architecture. The influence of Renaissance architecture can still be seen in many of the modern styles and rules of architecture today.\n\n"}
{"id": "5809925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5809925", "title": "Rātā (Māori mythology)", "text": "Rātā (Māori mythology)\n\nIn Māori mythology, accounts vary somewhat as to the ancestry of Rātā. Usually he is a grandson of Tāwhaki and son of Wahieroa. Wahieroa is treacherously killed by Matuku-tangotango, an ogre. Rātā sets out to avenge the murder, travelling to the home of Matuku, where a servant of the ogre tells him that Matuku comes out to devour people each new moon, and that he can be killed at the pool where he washes his face and hair. Rātā waits till the ogre comes out and is leaning over with his head in the pool. He grabs him by the hair and kills him. Matuku's bones are used to make spears for hunting birds.\n\nRātā searches for his father's bones so that he can afford them the proper respect. He learns that the Ponaturi have the bones in their village. He must build a canoe to get there. He goes into the forest, and fells a tree, and cuts off the top. His day's work over, he goes home, and returns the next morning. To his surprise he finds the tree standing upright and whole. Once again he cuts it down, but when he returns he finds the tree standing again. He hides in the forest, and hears the voices of the multitude of the hākuturi (forest spirits, called rorotini in one account), who set to work to re-erect the tree, putting each chip into its proper place. He runs out and catches some of the hakuturi, who tell him they re-erected the tree because he insulted Tāne, the god of the forest, by not performing the correct rituals before felling the tree. Rātā is ashamed, and expresses regret. Then the hākuturi make him a canoe, naming it Niwaru (alias Niwareka, Āniwaniwa, etc.)(Biggs 1966:450).\n\nRātā and his people launch the canoe and paddle off to find the Ponaturi. Arriving, Rātā cleverly surrounds them, kills their priests, and rescues his father's bones. The Ponaturi regroup and give chase. The battle goes badly until Rātā recites an incantation called Titikura that he overheard their priests recite while they were tapping together the bones of Wahieroa. In a flash all Rātā's dead warriors return to life and attack and slaughter all of the Ponaturi. Rātā is the father of Tūwhakararo, who is the father of Whakatau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2905158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2905158", "title": "Sonorism", "text": "Sonorism\n\nSonorism (Polish: \"Sonoryzm\") is an approach to musical composition associated with a number of notable Polish composers. The scholar Józef Michał Chomiński coined the term \"sonoristics\" (Polish: \"sonorystyka\") to describe the urge to explore purely sonic phenomena in composition, and from this term derived \"sonorism\" to describe an avant-garde style in Polish music of the 1960s that focused on timbre . As a movement, sonorism was initiated in the 1950s in the avant-garde of Polish music . Music that emphasises sonorism as a compositional approach tends to focus on specific characteristics and qualities of timbre, texture, articulation, dynamics, and motion in an attempt to create freer form. The style is primarily associated with an experimental musical movement which arose in Poland in the mid-1950s and flourished through the 1960s.\n\nSonorism emphasizes discovering new types of sounds from traditional instruments, as well as the creation of textures by combining different, often unconventional instrumental sounds in unusual and unique ways. The term \"sonoristics\" is used to describe this novel approach, which went beyond merely injecting individual color, quirks, and experimentation. It aimed to establish new structural functions in a composition, such as employing non-functional chords for sonorous effects, and emphasizing the sonic aspect of texts in vocal music .\n\nSonorism is rooted in the nationalistic movement of the 1920s called \"Polish colourism\", whose best-known exponent is Karol Szymanowski. Sonorism as such was developed in the 1950s and 1960s as a means of gaining freedom from strict serialism, particularly by Krzysztof Penderecki, but also in a number of compositions by Grażyna Bacewicz, Henryk Górecki, Kazimierz Serocki, Wojciech Kilar, Witold Szalonek, Witold Rudziński, Zbigniew Bujarski, Zbigniew Penherski, and Zygmunt Krauze, amongst others (; ).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1132770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1132770", "title": "Thanatopsis", "text": "Thanatopsis\n\n\"Thanatopsis\" is a poem by the American poet William Cullen Bryant. Meaning 'a consideration of death', the word is derived from the Greek 'thanatos' (death) and 'opsis' (view, sight).\n\nWilliam Cullen Bryant was born in 1794 in Cummington, Massachusetts. Bryant grew up in a Puritan home with his father, Peter Bryant, a prominent doctor. William Cullen Bryant's early education came from his father. In his early life Bryant would spend a great deal of time in the woods surrounding his family's New England home, and read of the extensive personal library his father had. Bryant's first published poem was \"The Embargo; or, Sketches of the Times\", a satirical work concerning Thomas Jefferson's Embargo Act of 1807. It was released in a Boston newspaper in 1808. In 1810 Bryant was forced to leave Williams College for lack of money. Instead of a formal education, he started studying law, and began learning an eclectic mix of poetry, such as the works of as Isaac Watts and Henry Kirke White, and verses like William Cowper's \"The Task\" and Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\".\n\nWhen and where Bryant wrote \"Thanatopsis\" is unclear, and Bryant himself could not remember when he wrote the verse. According to Parke Godwin, Bryant's friend, Bryant wrote the poem when he was seventeen years old in mid-1811, just after he had left Williams College. In \"History of American Literature\", two dates are stated for the authoring of \"Thanatopsis\", 1811 and 1816. Bryant's inspiration for \"Thanatopsis\" came after reading William Wordsworth's \"Lyrical Ballads\", as well as Robert Blair's \"The Grave\", Beilby Porteus's \"Death\" and Kirke White's \"Time\". After Bryant had left Cummington to begin his law studies, his father discovered a manuscript in Bryant's desk drawer, that contained \"Thanatopsis\" and a fragment of a poem, which would be published under the title \"The Fragment\", and later titled \"An Inscription upon the Entrance to a Wood\". He sent the two poems without his son's knowledge to the editors at the \"North American Review\", where they were published in September 1817. The editors added an introduction to Thanatopsis in a completely different style. The part written by the author begins with \"Yet a few days,\". The author republished the poem in 1821 in a collection of works called \"Poems\". He replaced the introductory section, made a few minor changes to the text and added more material after the original end of the poem, which was \"and make their bed with thee!\". Below is the revised version of 1821 which was retained in all later publications of the poem:\n\n<poem>\nTo him who in the love of Nature holds\nCommunion with her visible forms, she speaks\nA various language; for his gayer hours\nShe has a voice of gladness, and a smile\nAnd eloquence of beauty, and she glides\nInto his darker musings, with a mild\nAnd healing sympathy, that steals away\nTheir sharpness, ere he is aware. When thoughts\nOf the last bitter hour come like a blight\nOver thy spirit, and sad images\nOf the stern agony, and shroud, and pall,\nAnd breathless darkness, and the narrow house,\nMake thee to shudder, and grow sick at heart;—\nGo forth, under the open sky, and list\nTo Nature’s teachings, while from all around\nEarth and her waters, and the depths of air—\nComes a still voice—\nYet a few days, and thee\nThe all-beholding sun shall see no more\nIn all his course; nor yet in the cold ground,\nWhere thy pale form was laid, with many tears,\nNor in the embrace of ocean, shall exist\nThy image. Earth, that nourished thee, shall claim\nThy growth, to be resolved to earth again,\nAnd, lost each human trace, surrendering up\nThine individual being, shalt thou go\nTo mix for ever with the elements,\nTo be a brother to the insensible rock\nAnd to the sluggish clod, which the rude swain\nTurns with his share, and treads upon. The oak\nShall send his roots abroad, and pierce thy mould.\nYet not to thine eternal resting-place\nShalt thou retire alone, nor couldst thou wish\nCouch more magnificent. Thou shalt lie down\nWith patriarchs of the infant world—with kings,\nThe powerful of the earth—the wise, the good,\nFair forms, and hoary seers of ages past,\nAll in one mighty sepulchre. The hills\nRock-ribbed and ancient as the sun,—the vales\nStretching in pensive quietness between;\nThe venerable woods—rivers that move\nIn majesty, and the complaining brooks\nThat make the meadows green; and, poured round all,\nOld Ocean’s gray and melancholy waste,—\nAre but the solemn decorations all\nOf the great tomb of man. The golden sun,\nThe planets, all the infinite host of heaven,\nAre shining on the sad abodes of death,\nThrough the still lapse of ages. All that tread\nThe globe are but a handful to the tribes\nThat slumber in its bosom.—Take the wings\nOf morning, pierce the Barcan wilderness,\nOr lose thyself in the continuous woods\nWhere rolls the Oregon, and hears no sound,\nSave his own dashings—yet the dead are there:\nAnd millions in those solitudes, since first\nThe flight of years began, have laid them down\nIn their last sleep—the dead reign there alone.\nSo shalt thou rest, and what if thou withdraw\nIn silence from the living, and no friend\nTake note of thy departure? All that breathe\nWill share thy destiny. The gay will laugh\nWhen thou art gone, the solemn brood of care\nPlod on, and each one as before will chase\nHis favorite phantom; yet all these shall leave\nTheir mirth and their employments, and shall come\nAnd make their bed with thee. As the long train\nOf ages glide away, the sons of men,\nThe youth in life’s green spring, and he who goes\nIn the full strength of years, matron and maid,\nThe speechless babe, and the gray-headed man—\nShall one by one be gathered to thy side,\nBy those, who in their turn shall follow them.\nSo live, that when thy summons comes to join\nThe innumerable caravan, which moves\nTo that mysterious realm, where each shall take\nHis chamber in the silent halls of death,\nThou go not, like the quarry-slave at night,\nScourged to his dungeon, but, sustained and soothed\nBy an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave,\nLike one who wraps the drapery of his couch\nAbout him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.\n</poem>\n\nDue to the unusual quality of the verse and Bryant's age, Richard Henry Dana, Sr., then associate editor at the \"North American Review\", initially doubted its authenticity, saying to another editor, \"No one, on this side of the Atlantic, is capable of writing such verses.\"\n\n\"Thanatopsis\" remains a milestone in American literary history. \"Poems\" was considered by many to be the first major book of American poetry. Nevertheless, over five years, it earned Bryant only $14.92. Poet and literary critic Thomas Holley Chivers, who often accused other writers of stealing poems, said that the only thing Bryant \"ever wrote that may be called \"Poetry\" is 'Thanatopsis,' which he stole \"line for line\" from the Spanish.\"\n\nIn \"The Silence of the Lambs\" by Thomas Harris, Clarice Starling reveals to Hannibal Lecter one detail of her father's last days in a hospital: an elderly neighbour reading to him the last lines of \"Thanatopsis.\" In Sinclair Lewis' novel Main Street, the women's study club of Gopher Prairie is the Thanatopsis club.\n\nThe experimental band Thanatopsis was named after this poem. The band's first album, \"Thanatopsis\", was also named after this poem. The electronic artist Daedelus named the last song on the album \"Exquisite Corpse\" after the poem.\n\nThe Avant Garde film-maker Ed Emshwiller's 1962 short film Thanatopsis was inspired by the poem. In the \"Space Ghost Coast to Coast\" episode \"Terminal\", a portion of the poem is set to folk music and sung by writer/producer Dave Willis.\n\nIn the 1942 film \"Grand Central Murder\", the private railway car where the showgirl is murdered is named Thanatopsis.\n\nIn T.C. Boyle's 1990 novel \"East Is East\", the writer's colony on the fictitious Georgia sea island of Tupelo (near Darien) is called Thanatopsis House. Each of the artists in the colony have their own private studio cabin to work in during the day. Each studio cabin is named after a famous suicide (example: Hart Crane).\n\nIn August Wilson's 2003 play \"Gem of the Ocean\", Solly offers the final nine lines of the poem (\"So live . . . pleasant dreams\") as a toast to send off Citizen Barlow to the city of bones. Eli joins Solly in the recitation, offering his own interpretation of the lines: \"You die by how you live.\"\n\nThe Acacia Fraternity adopted the last stanza as their \n\nAmerican progressive rock band Kansas' 2000 studio album \"Somewhere to Elsewhere\" features a song called \"The Coming Dawn (Thanatopsis)\". The lyrics are a reflection on a life at its end.\n\nThe Algonquin Round Table of the 1920s had its own poker club: the tongue-in-cheek-named Thanatopsis Literary and Inside Straight Club.\n\nCindy Williams reads from Thanatopsis in Andy Kaufman's ABC TV Special aired in 1979.\n\n"}
{"id": "3331753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3331753", "title": "The Buccaneers (TV series)", "text": "The Buccaneers (TV series)\n\nThe Buccaneers was a 1956 Sapphire Films television drama series for ITC Entertainment, broadcast by CBS in the US and shown on ATV and regional ITV companies as they came on air during the infancy of ITV in the UK.\n\nStarring Robert Shaw as Dan Tempest, the series, aimed at children, followed the adventures of Tempest and his crew of former pirates as they made their way across the seven seas in \"Sultana\".\n\nThis series was one of several swashbuckling adventure series produced during this period by or for Lew Grade's ITC.\n\nThe series ran for 39 half-hour black-and-white episodes and was produced by Hannah Weinstein and Sidney Cole for Sapphire Films Limited. The episodes were made at Nettlefold Studios at Walton-on-Thames using two studios with seven or eight standing sets. A real schooner was based at Falmouth, Cornwall and a faithful reproduction of part of it in a studio corner.\n\nRupert Evans, stunt artist, former army teacher of physical training taught Robert Shaw fencing.\n\nThe series was set in the Port of Nassau in New Providence of about 1722.\n\nSources report that Robert Shaw was unavailable for the first few episodes, but nevertheless shooting went ahead without him. In the majority of episodes, he is listed as \"With\" rather than \"Starring\" in the title sequence, for reasons that are open to speculation.\n\nThe complete series is available on R2 DVD from Network in the UK. There are a number of public-domain DVDs of the series in the North American market, as well as a complete series release.\n\nIn 1976 Robert Shaw virtually reprised his role on the big screen in \"Swashbuckler\".\n\nVarious characters were often played by Tony Thawnton, Terence Cooper, Rupert Evans, Roy Purcell and Denis Lacey.\n\n\nAirdate is for ATV Midlands ITV regions varied date and order.\n\nThe show's ending theme contained the chorus:\n\nLet's go a-roving, a-roving across the ocean<br>\nOh, let's go a-roving and join the buccaneers!<br>\nWe'll find adventure, adventure across the ocean<br>\nOh, we'll find adventure and join the buccaneers!\nSea shanties and traditional songs were incorporated into the show. Early episodes begin with sailors singing \"Blow, Ye Winds, in the Morning,\" an anachronistic American whaling song. The second episode, \"The Raiders,\" is the only episode to use \"The Maid of Amsterdam\" as its ending theme. Other songs performed in the show include:\n\nMill Creek Entertainment released the complete series in Region 1 on 15 August 2006. This release has been discontinued and is now out of print.\n\nNetwork DVD released the complete series in region 2 on 1 June 2007\n\nOn 19 August 2008, Timeless Media Group released a 3-disc best-of set that features 30 episodes of the series.\n\n"}
{"id": "20868412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20868412", "title": "Travel Agent (magazine)", "text": "Travel Agent (magazine)\n\nTravel Agent is a biweekly trade magazine, published by Questex, LLC and targeted at travel agency professionals, featuring travel industry news. It is based in New York City. \n\nThe magazine was established in 1930. In 1998 \"Travel Agent\" was sold by Universal Media, Inc. to Advanstar Communications Inc. It was formerly published on a weekly basis.\n\n\"Travel Agent\" targets travel agents, agency owners/managers, and other travel industry staff. The magazine is also supplemented with an online edition. Questex Media also operates \"Travel Agent University\", an on-line travel education site. Sister publications include: \"Luxury Travel Advisor\", \"Home Based Travel Agent\", \"Official Travel Industry Directory\", \"Hotel & Motel Management\", \"Premier Hotels & Resorts\" and \"Premier Spas & Romance\".\n\nTravel Agent is the recipient of \"Folio\" magazine's editorial excellence award in the travel trade category.\n"}
{"id": "6835500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6835500", "title": "Turaga", "text": "Turaga\n\nIn Fijian, Turaga is the word for a man.\n\nThe \"Turaga-ni-Koro\" is a title for the head of a village (\"Koro\"), who is usually elected or appointed by the villagers. As kind of city administrator or mayor, he plays a key role in the modern Fijian government structure and is paid a small government allowance.\n\nSimilarly, the chief of a \"Mataqali\" (clan) is known as the \"Turaga-ni-mataqali\". The exact historical status of the Turaga played an important role in conflicts regarding common landownership.\n\n"}
{"id": "10082867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10082867", "title": "Vehicular metrics", "text": "Vehicular metrics\n\nThere are a broad range of metrics that denote the relative capabilities of various vehicles. Most of them apply to all vehicles while others are type-specific.\n"}
{"id": "31639681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31639681", "title": "Where (magazine)", "text": "Where (magazine)\n\nWhere is a series of magazines for tourists, distributed at hotels, convention centres, regional malls and other tourist areas.\n\nThe original edition was founded in 1938.\n\nThroughout most of the world, the magazine's editions are published by Morris Visitor Publications; it is published in Milan (Italy) by Where Italia Srl, in Rome by Tourist Media Srl, in Canada by St. Joseph Media and in Asia by Asia City Media Group.\n\n\"(all published by Asia City Media Group)\"\n\n\"(all published by Morris Visitor Publications)\"\n\n\"(the majority published by Morris Visitor Publications)\"\n\n\n\"(all published by Morris Visitor Publications in United States, all published by St. Joseph Media in Canada, except as noted)\"\n\n\"(all published by St. Joseph Media, except as noted)\"\n\n\"(all published by Morris Visitor Publications)\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8086037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8086037", "title": "Women in geology", "text": "Women in geology\n\nWomen in geology concerns the history and contributions of women to the field of geology. There has been a long history of women in the field, but they have tended to be under-represented. In the era before the eighteenth century, science and geological science had not been as formalized as they would become later. Hence early geologists tended to be informal observers and collectors, whether they were male or female. Notable examples of this period include Hildegard of Bingen who wrote works concerning stones and Barbara Uthmann who supervised her husband's mining operations after his death. Mrs. Uthmann was also a relative of Georg Agricola. In addition to these names varied aristocratic women had scientific collections of rocks or minerals.\n\nIn the nineteenth century a new professional class of geologists emerged that included women. In this period the British tended to have far more women of significance to geology.\n\nIn 1977 the Association for Women Geoscientists was formed to support women in this field as they remained under-represented. There have been advances since then although retention remains a problem.\n\n\n\n\n"}
