{"id": "38249023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38249023", "title": "2013 horse meat scandal", "text": "2013 horse meat scandal\n\nThe 2013 horse meat scandal was a scandal in Europe in which foods advertised as containing beef were found to contain undeclared or improperly declared horse meat – as much as 100% of the meat content in some cases. A smaller number of products also contained other undeclared meats, such as pork. The issue came to light on 15 January 2013, when it was reported that horse DNA had been discovered in frozen beefburgers sold in several Irish and British supermarkets.\n\nThe analysis stated that samples of beef burgers also contained pig DNA; pork is a taboo food in the Muslim and Jewish communities.\n\nWhile the presence of undeclared meat was not a health issue, the scandal revealed a major breakdown in the traceability of the food supply chain, and the risk that harmful ingredients could have been included as well. Sports horses, for example, could have entered the food supply chain, and with them the veterinary drug phenylbutazone which is banned in food animals. The scandal has since spread to 13 other European countries, and European authorities have decided to find an EU-wide solution. They initiated meat testing of about 4,000 horse meat samples for the veterinary drug.\n\nInvestigations by the Food Safety Authority of Ireland (FSAI) resulted in Ireland being the first EU state to report the presence of horse meat in beef and make the results public. The first positive test for equine DNA was on 10 December 2012. It carried out additional tests on 18 and 21 December. The FSAI then sent samples to the Eurofins laboratory in Germany. Professor Alan Reilly of the FSAI testified to the Oireachtas on 5 February 2013 that the results indicated the presence of equine DNA, but not the amount. The IdentiGen Laboratory and the Eurofins Laboratory were asked to determine the amount of horse meat in the samples. On 21 December 2012, the FSAI requested that the Department of Agriculture, Food and the Marine in Ireland obtain further samples. These were sent to the Identigen laboratory on 4 January 2013. \n\nResults were received back from Eurofins and Identigen on 11 January 2013. Professor Reilly reported on 5 February that quantitative results from Identigen were received by the FSAI late on the evening of 11 January 2013. Of the ten burger products that tested positive for equine DNA, all but one was at low levels. The quantification of the equine DNA in this one burger product gave an estimated amount of 29% equine DNA relative to the beef DNA content of the burger product. This product was manufactured by Silvercrest on behalf of Tesco. At this point, there was no explanation for the finding of 29% equine DNA relative to beef DNA in this single sample. On 14 January 2013 the FSAI informed the Department of Health and the Department of Agriculture, Food and the Marine of the final results. On the same day it also informed the Food Standards Agency in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe next day, 15 January 2013, the FSAI advised the five retailers concerned, Tesco, Dunnes Stores, Aldi, Lidl and Iceland, of their findings; all these firms withdrew the offending products. The media and newspapers of 16 January 2013 led with the story, focusing on the one burger which tested positive for 29% equine DNA.\n\nAnother significant investigation into the horse meat affair in Ireland by Ireland’s Department of Agriculture, published its findings in March 2013. This report’s investigation “concluded that there is no evidence that Silvercrest knowingly purchased horsemeat”\n\nIn the UK, a House of Commons Select Committee on Environment, Food and Rural Affairs report on the horse meat incident was not critical of UK or Irish producers. It expressed concern that horsemeat contamination was the result of fraud and other criminal activity across the EU. Chair of the Committee Anne McIntosh MP said: “The evidence suggests a complex network of companies trading in and mislabeling beef or beef products which is fraudulent and illegal.”\n\nThe second major UK report on the horse meat incident was conducted by Professor Chris Elliott, the Director of the Institute for Global Food Security at Queen's University Belfast. In his independent report he argues that food crime was at the heart of the horse meat incident: and made a range of suggestions for how this could be tackled. “Industry, government and enforcement agencies should, as a precautionary principle, always put the needs of consumers above all other considerations, and this means giving food safety and food crime prevention – i.e. the deterrence of dishonest behavior – absolute priority over other objectives.” \n\nOf 27 beef burger products tested, 37% were positive for horse DNA, and 85% were positive for pig DNA. Of 31 beef meal products tested, 21 were positive for pig DNA but all were negative for horse DNA. products were tested but were negative for all foreign DNA. Of the 37% of beef products tested positive for horse DNA, Tesco's inexpensive Everyday Value Beef Burgers tested at 29.1%. All other reported brands had less than 0.3% horse DNA. These products originated from Liffey Meats and Silvercrest Foods in Ireland and Dalepak Hambleton food processing plant in the United Kingdom. Trace amounts of horse DNA were also found in raw ingredients imported from Spain and the Netherlands.\n\nLaboratory DNA investigations were requested by the authorities into possible donkey meat adulteration of minced meat products labelled as 100% beef. British company Primerdesign Ltd provided many of the tests to laboratories and companies wishing to test for contamination.\n\nBy 16 January 2013 four subsidiaries of ABP had been accused of supplying adulterated meat. They were Silvercrest in County Monaghan, Dalepak in North Yorkshire, Freshlink in Glasgow, ABP Nenagh in County Tipperary, Ireland and Dairy Crest, Rossington.\n\nHamburger meat from Silvercrest Foods, a subsidiary of Larry Goodman's ABP Food Group, in County Monaghan, Ireland, was found to contain 29% horse meat relative to beef. Porcine DNA was also found. Tesco dropped Silvercrest as a supplier of processed meat, but ABP said that it \"welcomed their decision to continue sourcing fresh beef from other ABP companies\". On 15 February 2013 Tesco said, \"We will no longer work with the suppliers who fell below our very high standards.\"\n\nThe first apparent instance of fresh beef being adulterated with horse meat was reported by Asda, which removed its 500-gram own-label beef Bolognese sauce from sale. The sauce was supplied by Greencore, which said in a statement that the meat in the sauce had been supplied by ABP Food Group's Nenagh plant in County Tipperary, Ireland. On 4 March 2013 Greencore announced that \"multiple further tests for the presence of equine DNA on the same batch of the same product using both screening and quantitative tests (in line with FSA testing protocols) at two different, independent accredited laboratories have all produced negative results\" and \"an extensive programme of testing of other finished product and raw material at the Bristol facility has produced negative results for the presence of equine DNA. The investigation of the overall incident, overseen by an independent expert... included an audit of ABP Food Group's plant in Nenagh, Ireland... found no evidence of contamination in the supply chain.\"\n\nBurger King, which has more than 500 fast food outlets in Ireland and the UK, dropped Silvercrest as a supplier,\nusing suppliers in Germany and Italy instead, after horse meat was found in their supply chain.\n\nWaitrose removed beef meatballs from sale when it found that they contained pork. The meatballs were manufactured by an ABP factory in Glasgow. Waitrose, part of John Lewis, said it would be creating a new facility to supply its own beef products.\n\nTesco, the Co-operative Group and Aldi also cancelled contracts with ABP Food Group because of the adulteration.\n\nFood wholesaler Makro, supplier to the restaurant and pub industry, announced that some of its frozen burgers supplied by Silvercrest tested positive for horse DNA. A spokesman said that Makro no longer sold the product in question.\n\nOn 14 February 2013, the French government stated that French meat processing company À la Table de Spanghero knowingly sold horse meat labelled as beef, and that their licence was suspended while an inquiry continues. Spanghero imported meat from Romania and sold it on to another French company, Comigel, which made frozen ready meals at its factory in Luxembourg. French Consumer Affairs Minister Benoît Hamon said the meat had left Romania clearly and correctly labelled as horse and that it was afterwards that it was relabelled as beef by Spanghero. The investigation also said some blame may rest with Comigel, claiming the staff there should have noticed anomalies in the paperwork, and realised from the smell and look of the meat once it was defrosted that it was not beef.\n\nOn 7 February 2013, Findus announced that in a sample of 18 beef lasagne products that it tested, 11 contained between 60% and 100% horse meat. It was also revealed that some of the products sold had minced meat declared as beef that was 60–100% horse meat. The source of the horse meat was third party supplier Comigel, a French-headquartered frozen ready meal producer, from its subsidiary Tavola factory in Capellen, Luxembourg. According to the FSA the company had been alerted by a third-party French supplier on 4 February 2013, and tested its beef lasagne products finding over 50% of the tested products contained horse meat. According to reports both Findus UK and the French supplier withdrew all products related to the third party supplier. The reason for the adulteration was initially stated as \"highly likely\" criminal activity.\n\nThe president of Comigel, Erick Lehagre, told Agence France-Presse that the adulterated meat supplier was Spanghero, a firm owned by Lur Berri and founded in 1970 by Claude and Laurent Spanghero, two former France international rugby players. He said that Spanghero had told him that the meat was not from France, but came from a producer in Romania. On 11 February 2013 France's Consumer Affairs Minister Benoit Hamon warned it \"will not hesitate\" to take legal action if there is evidence companies had knowingly duped consumers. Hamon said an initial investigation by French safety authorities had found a French company Poujol (Spanghero's holding company) bought frozen meat from a Cypriot trader. That trader had bought it from Dutch food supplier Draap (the Dutch word for horse, \"Paard\" spelled backwards), owned by Jan Fasen, who was previously convicted for horse meat fraud in 2007. Draap, in turn, bought it from two Romanian slaughterhouses. Poujol then supplied a factory in Luxembourg, owned by Comigel, which then supplied Findus and the British supermarkets. The Romanian government has stated that there are no contracts between the Romanian abattoirs and any French, Cypriot or Dutch meat processors.\n\nOn 8 February 2013, Findus announced that it would no longer accept meat from Comigel, and stopped further deliveries of the product in question. On the same day, Findus UK published a public apology on its website, also announcing that, following DNA testing, three of its products were found to contain horse tissue. These are the 320, 350 and 500 gram packages of Findus Beef Lasagne; the company offered a refund for products purchased. Findus Sverige AB also announced a recall of its packs of ready-made single-portion lasagne (code 63957), and published a contact number for customers who had already purchased the products. On 8 February 2013 supermarket chain Aldi announced that it would withdraw from sale Today's Special Frozen Beef Lasagne and Today's Special Frozen Spaghetti Bolognese, supplied by Comigel, after tests found the meat content to be between 30 and 100% horse.\n\nThe Swiss-based company Nestlé reported on 18 February 2013 that it had found more than 1% horse DNA in two beef pasta products. It withdrew chilled pasta products, Buitoni Beef Ravioli and Beef Tortellini, in Italy and Spain. Sourced from sub-contractor HJ Schypke, itself a German sub-contractor of Belgian-based Nestlé supplier JBS Toledo, also withdrew frozen Lasagnes à la Bolognaise Gourmandes, a product for catering businesses produced in France.\nOn 22 February 2013, Birds Eye revealed that DNA tests showed that horse meat was present in Birds Eye chili con carne sold in Belgium and supplied by Belgium firm Frigilunch. Birds Eye withdrew three ready meals that contained beef from sale in the UK.\n\nAll of the frozen beef products produced by Sodexo, \"one of the largest private catering businesses in Britain\", were withdrawn on 22 February 2013 following the discovery of horse DNA in a sample. The company supplies 2,300 institutions within the UK, including schools, old-age people homes, prisons and branches of the armed forces .\n\nOn 1 March the Department of Food and Veterinary of Lithuania announced that horse meat was found in three canned beef brands sold by Latvian company Kuršu Zeme. Canned beef made by the Latvian company was removed from sale in Lithuania.\n\nOn 10 April 2013, it was reported that two Dutch trading companies owned by the same person who had previously been investigated by food safety officials may have supplied of adulterated beef containing horse meat since January 2011.\n\nOn 7 February 2013, it was revealed by the Food Standards Agency that the Findus beef lasagne range in the UK, France and Sweden and the shepherd's pie and moussaka ranges in France contained horse meat without proper declaration or official scrutiny . The contamination may have gone on since summer 2012 according to a leaked document.\n\nCompass Group was the world's biggest catering firm at the time and discovered through conducting tests that it was unknowingly supplying concealed horse meat in food products to a \"small number\" of schools in Northern Ireland.\n\nWhitbread, which was at the time Britain's biggest hotel group also discovered through tests that it had unknowingly sold concealed horse meat in food products.\n\nThe horse meat that was found in Comigel products originated at Doly Com, a Romanian-based slaughterhouse. An inquiry by the French government showed that \"the meat had left Romania clearly and correctly labelled as horse. It was afterwards that it was relabelled as beef.\" Doly Com supplied the horse meat under a contract to Cyprus-based Draap Trading Ltd, a meat trader which operates in the Netherlands. It is owned by a British Virgin Islands holding company, and Jan Fasen is a director. \"Draap\" spelt backwards is \"paard,\" the Dutch word for \"horse\". After having the horse meat delivered to a cold storage company in Breda, Draap then sold the frozen meat to Spanghero, who insist that it arrived at their Castelnaudary plant labelled as \"Beef – originating in EU\". After some processing, Spanghero then sent it to Comigel, where the end products for sale were made. According to French media reports, Spanghero falsified documents regarding the meat.\n\nHorse meat found in Silvercrest products is thought to have originated in Poland.\n\nA small survey, part of the EU-funded project FoodRisC, by a team from University College Dublin and Brunel University found that health risks were not respondents' first concern, but rather that the claims made on labels did not match the contents of food products. Additional concerns included allegations that a \"French plant which handled horse meat sold in Britain as beef has previously been at the centre of a major E.coli discovery\". Inquiry into horse meat sources in the UK also revealed that Aintree racecourse has a contract with a licensed slaughterhouse in West Yorkshire to remove dead Grand National race horses. It is illegal for horses euthanised by injection to be put into the human food chain. Many chemical agents used for animal euthanasia leave residues in the meat which may be harmful to humans, and have caused sickness and death in animal predators and scavengers. Aintree officials stated they were \"as confident as we possibly can be that no unfit meat ever reaches the human food chain.\"\n\nIn January 2013, concerns first arose about the possibility that horse meat containing traces of the veterinary drug phenylbutazone could enter the human food chain, in spite of regulations that horses treated with it cannot legally be used for human consumption. The drug, commonly known as \"bute\", is used as an analgesic in horses. The issue was also raised by politicians such as Labour party MP Mary Creagh.\n\nIn response, the Food Standards Agency (FSA) initially stated that there had been only five cases of slaughtered horses in the UK which had been treated with phenylbutazone, none of which had entered the human food chain. A subsequent review of 206 horse carcasses slaughtered in the UK between 30 January and 7 February 2013 found eight were contaminated with phenylbutazone, six of which had been shipped to France. The UK's Chief Medical Officer, Sally Davies, said the level of contamination, 1.9 mg/kg, posed \"very little risk to human health\". She added that around 500–600 burgers containing 100% horse meat would need to be eaten to receive the daily human therapeutic dose. Additional tests at that time indicated than none of the products from Findus contained phenylbutazone. Another report found that between two and five percent of samples tested between 2007 and 2011 had phenylbutazone contamination, and that only 50 samples per year were tested. In 2012, 145 carcasses had been tested, and two out of the nine carcasses found positive for bute that year were not reported to the FSA for seven months. In April 2013, the FSA reported it had not only found more than 1% horse DNA in Asda's tins of but it also contained four ppb of phenylbutazone, marking the first time since the start of the scandal that bute had been detected in a meat product in the UK food chain.\n\nHowever, one problem raised was over documentation; all of the UK animals with phenylbutazone contamination tested in early 2013 possessed a \"horse passport\" that allowed the carcasses to be sold for human consumption. The veterinary residues committee (VRC) reminded the public in July 2012 that it had been \"repeatedly expressing concern\" about phenylbutazone contamination. and recent discoveries of contamination suggest that the passport system was not working.\n\nPhenylbutazone is used therapeutically in humans as a treatment for ankylosing spondylitis when other treatments are not suitable. The effect on humans of low-level exposure over an extended period has not been extensively formally studied. High incidences of focal necrosis were found in female rats fed low doses of 1,2-diphenylhydrazine over time. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) residues risk causing rare, but potentially fatal side-effects in humans. There is inadequate data on carcinogenicity of phenylbutazone; it is not classifiable as to its carcinogenicity to humans.\n\nThere is also speculation that some horse meat from the United States, where phenylbutazone is commonly used, may have entered the food chain via Mexico and then been exported to Europe. One reason for this is that Spanghero had purchased meat from a company, Draap, whose owner, Jan Fasen was previously convicted for fraud; as long ago as 2007, Draap had labelled horse meat imported from Mexico and South America as Dutch or German beef. The primary concern is horse meat from the United States: up to 15% of horses sent to slaughter in Canada or Mexico are former racehorses that have been given drugs during their racing career, such as phenylbutazone, which are approved for use in horses but not humans and carry the warning \"Do not use in horses intended for human consumption.\" Further, they are given medication at levels that led a research veterinarian to call them \"walking pharmacies\". These animals may have meat too toxic to eat safely.\n\nSome experts and UK government officials have raised concerns that horse meat from Romania could be contaminated with equine infectious anaemia (EIA). Although EIA does not pose a risk to humans, it could be an indicator of additional health problems in horses that may stem from poor living conditions. Since 2007, the European Union has restricted export of live horses from Romania to any other EU member state unless the animals have a Coggins test for EIA prior to export. Environment secretary Owen Paterson stated that \"Romanian horse meat is not allowed in\", though he acknowledged that it could be a serious problem if Romanian horse meat from animals with EIA had been imported.\n\nSome news outlets referred to EIA as \"Horse AIDS\", even though it is not an immunodeficiency syndrome and the retrovirus that causes it is equid-specific. EIA is, however, a lentivirus, like HIV, and thus research on EIA has the potential to help research efforts with HIV/AIDS.\n\nAn article by Will Hutton about contamination in the UK lays much of the responsibility at the door of those who have (in the name of relaxing stifling red tape) removed much of the regulation of the meat industry, and cut the budgets and workforces—halving the number of inspectors—of those responsible for enforcing the remaining regulations. Another article points out that \"Long business supply chains are corruptible and can hide a multitude of crimes if no one checks for fraud or criminal activity\".\n\nIn Britain, the incident was a catalyst for the discussion of the validity of a self-regulated meat industry. Karen Jennings, assistant general secretary of the UNISON trades union, said that \"the industry isn't fit to regulate itself\".\n\nObservant Muslims and Jews consider it sinful to eat certain types of meat, pork for both groups and also horse and many other animals for Jews, due to religious prohibitions. Professor Reilly stated \"for some religious groups or people who abstain from eating pig meat, the presence of traces of pig DNA is unacceptable\".\nOn 15 March 2013 it was confirmed by a Westminister wing on Health and Safety that pig DNA had been found in halal chicken sausages produced for schools.\n\nHorse meat is not normally eaten in Ireland and Britain. According to Professor Reilly, chief executive of the FSAI, \"In Ireland, it is not our culture to eat horse meat and therefore, we do not expect to find it in a burger\". Silvercrest, a subsidiary of ABP Foods has claimed that there is no risk to the public upon eating the foreign meat. Eleven firms, including Tesco and Asda, said they shared shoppers' \"anger and outrage\". Whitbread vowed to remedy the unacceptable situation. The Food Standards Agency's (FSA) chief executive, Catherine Brown also said \"it is unlikely we will ever know\" how many unwittingly ate horsemeat.\n\nTesco's market value dropped by .\n\nEuropean Union officials, European ministers and Commissioner (Tonio) Borg set up an urgent meeting in Brussels on 13 February 2013 on how to contain the horse meat scandal that exposed flaws in European control systems on food safety, and to formulate an action plan. Following the meeting, EU agriculture ministers announced a three-month programme of DNA testing of processed meat across the European Union. The plan calls for 2,500 random tests on processed food for horse DNA and 4,000 for phenylbutazone (bute), beginning in March 2013, with initial results announced on 15 April 2013. It is unclear why the testing could not start immediately as most of the evidence is still present. The scale of DNA tests in April and May would be decided later. The Hague-based Europol would handle co-ordination of the investigations among national authorities and any raids on premises as well as arrests on suspicion of criminal conspiracy to defraud.\n\nOn 26 February 2013 it was announced that sales of frozen hamburgers had fallen by 43% and frozen ready meals by 13% from levels before the scandal. The study took place Sales of \"bona fide\" horse meat, on the other hand, increased in those EU countries where it is moderately common.\n\nOn 23 May 2013, a Dutch meat wholesaler, Willy Selten, was arrested for allegedly selling 300 tonnes of horsemeat as beef. Selten, who owns the meat wholesaler Willy Selten BV, was arrested together with the company's interim director.\nIn October Barry Gardiner MP, the UK shadow Environment minister criticised the lack of prosecutions of leading players ten months after David Cameron promised that everything possible would be done to deal with a \"very shocking\" crime. Gardiner said \"The extraordinary thing is that because of its clout, industry has been able to commit what appears to be a criminal offence – selling the public horsemeat falsely labelled as beef – and just say they are sorry and didn't know.\"\n\nOn 26 August 2016, three men were charged by the City of London Police with fraud offences relating to the sale of mixed beef and horsemeat products that were sold as beef between 1 January 2012 – 31 October 2012.\n\nIn December 2013 consignments of horse meat were seized and arrests made. 21 people were arrested on Monday 16 December in various parts of the South of France. This meat was from horses that had been kept on a farm attached to a scientific laboratory, and was not certified as fit for human consumption. A dealer from Narbonne was helping police with enquiries.\n\n"}
{"id": "17701380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17701380", "title": "Academic grading in Egypt", "text": "Academic grading in Egypt\n\nIn Egypt the academic grading system functions with a worded grade and increases in increments from 30-10 points.\n\nThe title \"gayyid giddan\" or very good denotes the second highest mark possible, on par with a \"B\" student.\n"}
{"id": "54881476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54881476", "title": "Airbus Training Centre Europe", "text": "Airbus Training Centre Europe\n\nAirbus Training Centre Europe is one of the eight centres of the European aerospace company Airbus dedicated to airline pilot and engineer training.\nLocated at Blagnac, close to Toulouse (France), the centre is approved by civil aviation authority to deliver courses on Airbus A300, A310, A320 family, A330, A340, A350XWB and A380.\n\nThe centre is equipped with six full flight simulators.\n\nAirbus also has training centres in Hamburg, Miami, Beijing, Singapore, Bangalore, New Delhi and Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "24096880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24096880", "title": "Almond present", "text": "Almond present\n\nAn almond present (, , , ) is a small present traditionally given in some Nordic countries to the person who gets the whole almond put in the rice pudding served for Christmas.\n\nThe tradition may originate from the somewhat similar king cake tradition on Epiphany, observed in, e.g., France.\n"}
{"id": "58510961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58510961", "title": "Bluedot Festival", "text": "Bluedot Festival\n\nBluedot is a music, science and culture event held annually in July since 2016 at Jodrell Bank Observatory in Cheshire, England, combining music, live science experiments, expert talks and immersive artworks.\nThe festival is named after \"Pale Blue Dot\", a famous photograph of planet Earth popularised by Carl Sagan.\n\nSince 2016, acts performing at the bluedot festival have included New Order, Orbital, Underworld, Alt-J, Goldfrapp, Jean-Michel Jarre, The Chemical Brothers, Gary Numan, Hot Chip and The Flaming Lips. Kraftwerk are to headline Saturday at the 2019 event.\n\nThe festival has included talks and demonstrations from Richard Dawkins, Brian Cox, Jim Al-Khalili, Philippa Browning, Timothy John O'Brien, Sarah Bridle, Lisa Harvey-Smith, and Teresa Anderson.\n"}
{"id": "1354651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1354651", "title": "Cato Maior de Senectute", "text": "Cato Maior de Senectute\n\nCato Maior de Senectute (Cato the Elder on Old Age) is an essay written by Cicero in 44 BC on the subject of aging and death. The Latin title of the piece is \"Cato Maior de Senectute\". To lend his reflections greater import, Cicero wrote his essay such that the esteemed Cato the Elder was lecturing to Scipio Africanus and Gaius Laelius Sapiens.\n\nIt was written by Cicero in his sixty-third year, and is addressed to his friend Atticus. Cicero represents the discourse as delivered by the elder Cato (in his eighty-fourth year) on occasion of young Scipio and Laelius expressing their admiration at the wonderful ease with which he still bore the load of life. Cicero acknowledges that the sentiments put into the mouth of Cato are really Cicero's own. His purpose is to show that old age is not only tolerable, but comfortable by internal resources of happiness. He examines the infirmities of old age under four general headings:—that it incapacitates from mingling in the affairs of the world—that it produces infirmities of body—that it stops the enjoyment of sensual gratifications—and that it brings us to the verge of death. Some of these supposed disadvantages, he maintains, are imaginary, and for any real pleasures of which the old are deprived, others more refined and higher may be substituted. Overall the view of old age is optimistic. He denies, for instance, that the memory is impaired—that no old man ever forgot where he had concealed his treasure. The whole work is illustrated by examples of eminent Roman citizens who had passed a respected and agreeable old age.\n\nA translation by the colonial American scholar James Logan was published by Benjamin Franklin, the first printing of a translation of a classic text in North America. It was a favorite of former U.S. President John Adams, and was selected for inclusion in the Harvard Classics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38607104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38607104", "title": "Constructivism in science education", "text": "Constructivism in science education\n\nConstructivism has been considered as a dominant paradigm, or research programme, in the field of science education. The term constructivism is widely used in many fields, and not always with quite the same intention. This entry offers an account of how constructivism is most commonly understood in science education.\n\nScience Education is now an established field within Education, and worldwide has its own journals, conferences, university departments and so forth. Although a diverse field, a major influence on its development was research considered to be undertaken from a constructivist perspective on learning, and supporting approaches to teaching that themselves became labelled constructivist. Thus, this constructivism was largely of a psychological flavour, often drawing on the work of Jean Piaget, David Ausubel, Robert M. Gagné and Jerome Bruner. One influential group of science education researchers were also heavily influenced by George Kelly (psychologist)'s Personal Construct Theory. The work of Lev Vygotsky (since being championed in the West by Jerome Bruner) has also been increasingly influential.\n\nThese workers from psychology informed the first generation of science education researchers. Active research groups developed in centres like the University of Waikato (Aotearoa/New Zealand), University of Leeds (UK) and University of Surrey (UK), with a strong interest in students' ideas in science (formed before, or during instruction) as these were recognised as being highly influential on future learning, and so whether canonical scientific would be learnt. This work, sometimes labelled the 'alternative conceptions movement' was motivated by a series of influential publications on children's ideas in science and their implications for learning (and so for how teaching should be planned to take them into account). Whilst a range of influential papers could be cited it has been suggested that a number of seminar contributions in effect set out the commitments, or 'hard core' of a constructivist research programme into the learning and teaching of science. The perspective was also the focus of a number of books aimed at the science education community - researchers and teachers.\n\nThese papers presented learning as process of personal sense making, and an iterative matter such that what is learnt was channelled by existing knowledge and understanding (whether canonical or alternative), and teaching as needing to take learners' existing ideas into account in teaching. The research programme soon amounted to thousands of studies on aspects of students' (of different ages and educational levels, from different countries) thinking and learning in science topics.\n\nThere have been a wide range of criticisms of constructivist work in science, including strong criticism from philosophical perspectives. Such criticisms have done little to stem the influence of the perspective, perhaps because they tend not to refer to the core tenets of constructivism as an approach based on learning theory and research from cognitive science.\n\nLearners' ideas in science have been variously labelled as alternative conceptions, alternative conceptual frameworks, preconceptions, scientific misconceptions, naive theories etc. Although some scholars have attempted to distinguish between these terms, there is no consensual usage and often these terms are in effect synonymous. It has been found that some alternative conceptions are very common, although others appear quite idiosyncratic. Some seem to be readily overcome in teaching, but others have proved to be tenacious and to offer a challenge to effective instruction. Sometimes it is considered important to distinguish fully developed conceptions (i.e., explicit ways of understanding aspects of the natural work that are readily verbalised) from more 'primitive' features of cognition acting at a tacit level, such as the so-called phenomenology primitives. The 'knowledge-in-pieces' perspective suggests the latter act as resources for new learning which have potential to support the development of either alternative or canonical knowledge according to how teachers proceed, whereas alternative conceptions (or misconceptions) tend to be seen as learning impediments to be overcome. What research has shown is the prevalence among learners at all levels of alternative ways to thinking about just about all science topics, and a key feature of guidance to teachers is to elicit students' ideas as part of the teaching process. The success of constructivism is that this is now largely taken-for-granted in science teaching and has become part of standard teaching guidance in many contexts. Previously there was a strong focus on the abstract nature of concepts to be learnt, but little awareness that often the teacher was not seeking to replace ignorance with knowledge, but rather to modify and develop learners existing thinking which was often at odds with the target knowledge set out in the curriculum.\n\nConstructivism is seen as an educational theory, and a key perspective to inform pedagogy. There are many books informing teachers and others about constructivist research findings and ideas, and giving guidance on how to teach science form a constructivist perspective.\n\n"}
{"id": "1467562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1467562", "title": "Cosa", "text": "Cosa\n\nCosa was a Latin colony founded in southwestern Tuscany in 273 BC, on land confiscated from the Etruscans, to solidify the control of the Romans and offer the Republic a protected port.\nThe Etruscan site (called \"Cusi\" or \"Cosia\") may have been where modern Orbetello stands; a fortification wall in polygonal masonry at Orbetello's lagoon may be in phase with the walls of Cosa. The position of Cosa is distinct, rising some 113 metres above sea level and is sited 140 km northwest of Rome on the Tyrrhenian Sea coast, on a hill near the small town of Ansedonia. The town experienced a hard life and was never truly a prosperous Roman city, although it has assumed a position of prominence in Roman archaeology owing to the circumstances of its excavation (cf. Dyson 2005, below). After the foundation, wars of the 3rd century BC affected the town. New colonists arrived in 197 BC. Cosa seems to have prospered until it was sacked in the 60s BC, perhaps by pirates - although an earthquake and unrest related to the Catilinarian Conspiracy have also been cited as reasons. This led to a re-foundation under Augustus and then life continued until the 3rd century. One of the last textual references to Cosa comes from the work of Rutilius Claudius Namatianus in his \"De reditu suo\". In the passage 1.285-90, Rutilius remarks that by AD 417 the site of Cosa was deserted and could be seen to be in ruins. He further suggests that a plague of mice had driven the people of Cosa away.\n\nIn the 20th century, Cosa was the site of excavations carried out under the auspices of the American Academy in Rome, initially under the direction of the archaeologist Frank Edward Brown. Excavations (1948–54, 1965–72) have traced the city plan, the principal buildings, the port, and have uncovered the Arx, the forum, and a number of houses. Unexcavated buildings include a bathing establishment, but no trace of a theatre or an amphitheatre has been found. In the 1990s a series of excavations was carried out under the direction of Elizabeth Fentress, then associated with the American Academy in Rome. This latter campaign aimed at understanding the history of the site between the imperial period and the Middle Ages. Sample excavations took place over the whole site, with larger excavations on the Arx, the Eastern Height and around the Forum.\nFieldwork resumed in 2013 under the auspices of Florida State University.\n\nWithin the city walls the urban area was divided into an orthogonal plan, with space allotted for civic, sacred, and private architecture. The plan represents a subtle adaptation of an orthogonal plan to the complicated topography of the hill. The forum was found on a saddle between two heights, with the sacred area, with the Capitolium, linked to it by a broad street. Recent excavations have suggested that the original layout provided for about 248 houses, of which 20 were intended for the decurions, and were double the size of the houses of the ordinary citizens. The larger houses were found on the forum and the main processional streets.\n\nThe vast majority of religious monuments at Cosa were located at the Arx, \"an area sacra, abode of those gods, quorum maxime in tutela civitas.\" The Arx was positioned at the highest and southernmost point of the colony. Its limits were defined by the Town Wall on the S and W sides, by cliffs on the NW side, and by the Arx Wall on the NE side. In total, the Arx constituted around one-twentieth of the whole area of the townsite. Aside from the colony’s walls, the Arx provides us with the site’s most impressive remains, the first American excavation taking place from 1948-1950. Though mainly a religious center, there is some evidence of Republican housing. The Arx reached its fullest development in the early 2nd century BC, consisting of at least three temples and the Capitolium.\nThe \"arx\" or citadel of Cosa received some of the first serious treatment by Frank E. Brown and his team when they began the Cosa excavations in 1948. The citadel was a fortified hill on which were built several temples, including the so-called \"capitolium\" of Cosa.\nBrown also discovered a pit (\"mundus\") that he thought was connected to the first rituals of foundation carried out at Cosa in 273 BC. On the \"arx\" were two temples, one the triple-cella building dubbed the Capitolium of Cosa, the other a smaller temple.\n\nThe Capitolium at Cosa marks, as far as we know, the only capitolium constructed in a Latin colony. It was located at the summit of the Arx and would have been visible for miles at sea. Smaller temples to the left and the right accompany the Capitolium, the entire complex accessible from the Forum by the Via Sacra. The Capitolium was oriented ENE and consisted of three cellae with a deep columnar pronaos (with the length of the space equally divided between the cellae and the pronaos). This was preceded by a terraced forecourt. Approaching from this forecourt, one would have faced continuous steps across the entire facade. The temple walls rose from a high podium, its steps oriented on the axis of the Via Sacra. It is believed that the Capitolium was modeled after the 6th-century BC Temple of Jupiter, Juno, and Minerva at Rome. Its moldings are similar to the building traditions of Etruscan and early Roman architecture. The Capitolium was built in the 2nd century BC, most likely as an affirmation of Roman loyalty and identity following the Second Punic War. A square platform is located underneath the Capitolium, cut into the rock but oriented differently than the later building. A crevasse/pit with vegetative remains is located here, suggesting some sort of ritual activity with associated with the religious foundation of Cosa. The exact meaning behind this find is undetermined, the source of much controversy and skepticism.\n\nThe remains of an unidentified temple lie on the crest of the Arx by the south wall of the Capitolium. For the most part, the remains have not been excavated; the original building was obliterated in antiquity after destruction by fire. The temple was not rebuilt, leaving only Temple D and the Capitolium at that time (middle of the 1st century BC). Though the burning itself does not imply a battle, the subsequent construction of fortifications may suggest some sort of attack. Scholars have only been able to identify this building through traces of walls and fragments of its terracotta decoration. These remains included two subtypes of antefix, one featuring a bust of Minerva and the other Hercules. The temple has thus been attributed to Jupiter, both Minerva and Hercules being offspring of the god. Much speculation arises, however, as the gods held a wide variety of contexts in Italy. Furthermore, when the site was further explored in the 1960s, no more traces of the temple were found.\n\nDating to the late 3rd century BC, Temple D was located opposite the north angle of the Capitolium’s forecourt and was oriented SE. It backed the cliffs above the town and supported a single square cellar. Temple D has been identified as being dedicated to the Roman-Italic goddess Mater Matuta, though this conclusion remains speculative.\n\nA great deal of important terracotta fragments have been found at Cosa and the Arx. They suggest various phases of temple decoration and redecoration and include (among others) pedimental structures and revetment plaques. Most of the remains date from the late 3rd century to the early 1st century BC. They display similar qualities as finds from Latin and Etruscan sites in Hellenistic Italy. Dyson holds that these evolving styles and similarities reflected the influence of the larger Hellenistic Mediterranean world that Rome was beginning to dominate. Two sets of these remains clearly belong to the earliest buildings (the Capitolium and Temple D), however, there is a third unidentified set. Scholars have used this set to explain the hypothetical Temple of Jupiter discussed earlier.\n\nTemple A consisted of a terraced podium and was oriented southwest. It was roughly the same size as the Capitolium with its forecourt, measuring 43 x 28 meters. The polygonal masonry of its podium closely related to that of the town walls.\n\nThe city wall of Cosa was built in polygonal masonry and included a system of interval towers. The \"arx\" also had an independent circuit wall. \n\nThe forum was the public square of the city and was the site of many important structures, included a basilica and a \"curia-comitium\" complex, as well as buildings Brown termed \"atria publica\", which have now been shown to be houses. The forum of Cosa is fairly complex in archaeological terms and many of the Republican structures were later built over with construction of the Imperial period.\nImportant buildings in the forum area included: a Temple of Concordia - along with other temples mentioned above - atrium publicum (municipal house), a possible mall, a Comitium, a Curia, Basilicas, and included one of Italy’s oldest monumental arches that allowed entrance into the forum.\n\nThe Forum of Cosa occupied one-tenth of the town-site. The first signs of activity in the Forum were of digging and opening of cisterns and pits. The four cisterns situated in the Forum held approximately 988,000 liters of water, which added to the Reservoir at the western corner of the Forum of 750,000 liters. The Reservoir was used as a public reserve and dated from before the arrival of the colony. The new cisterns were created as a response to the demand of the Forum, which was used as both a daily marketplace as well as a common gathering ground. A large enclosure, for the purpose of assembly, was constructed at a date before the First Punic War. It had an amphitheatric arrangement that had steps which were too little for seating and a floor too small for a gladiatorial arena. This was the Comitium of Cosa.\n\nThere was a break in the creation of public works due to two decades of war and again another interruption in 225 BC by Gallic raids. The remains of a quadrilateral platform floored with tegulae, a form of tiling, were discovered southeast of the Comitium. It is suggested that this building had served as a rain catchment and the water collected here would have been impounded into a cistern. During the last years of the Second Punic War, Cosa was able to construct its first purely religious building within the Forum, the Capitolium. After the war had ended in 201 BC, new colonists arrived and set off a flood of activity. Eight very similar and unitary buildings were built around the Forum, but were soon destroyed in the sacking of Cosa a century later. These eight were known as the Atrium Buildings and while they were being erected one by one, they were put into use until the Square could be resurfaced. Once the Square had been reconstructed, the Curia was rebuilt into its second form. However, this form only lasted for fifteen to twenty years before new spaces were required. Curia II was demolished in order to build Curia III, but little remains of the original structure.\n\nThe next building created for the Forum was Temple B, which is dated from 175-150 BC About thirty to forty years later, the temple was seriously damaged by a collapse of a wall, which led to the reconstruction of the temple. The new Temple B was designed to preserve the older sacred structure while rebuilding the sanctuary in a new form. After the rebuilding of Curia III and Temple B, the Basilica was laid out.\n\nThe city was sacked in 70 BC and much of the colony was restored unevenly. Atrium Building Seven and Eight were not rebuilt, while buildings one through five became houses. Although the Basilica had survived the sacking, it had been rotting and eventually a central wall collapsed outward. By AD 270, much of the Forum were in ruins, but around AD 300 the northeast part of the Forum underwent rebuilding and the portion was active for approximately seventy years until there was a cease of activity within Cosa \n\nThere are many important aspects to Cosa, especially the Forum; however, two of the most important structures are the Curia and Comitium. The Comitium at Cosa is a fairly new discovery and shows many similarities to Rome. The Curia lies on the northern end of the Comitium. The oldest part of the Curia dates back to the start of Cosa around 273B BC. The Curia, originally thought to be a temple, was found on the Northeast corner in between a basilica and Temple B. The building was identified when the area in front was excavated and found to be \"a circle of dark earth enclosed by a sandy yellow fill\". The Curia was originally thought to be a temple this is because the concept for the shape of the Comitium with the Curia mirrors the look of a stairway up to a temple. This idea can be seen from archaeological evidence such as the Theater of Pompey with the Temple Venus Victrix. Permanent theaters were not a norm and were considered a place of gathering of the people against the senate around 55 BC when Pompey built his theater. However, to make sure he could build it, he replicated the concept of the Comitium and the Curia by placing a temple to Venus at the top of the theater with steps that doubled as seating.\n\nThe original Curia built shows many connections to the Curia Hostilia at Rome. It is thought to have been a wooden structure with a stone base that was later made more permanent. The Comitium steps, which lead up to the Curia, appear to have been stone from the beginning. There are several layers of Curia with the original starting as a small two story building. This consisted of the curia proper and possibly a records office. The biggest change is seen around 173 BC in what is considered the coming of the second wave of colonist, which called for a larger Curia. The Curia was then expanded into a larger building with three halls. Scholars speculate that these three halls are at the northern end a tabularium, with offices for aediles and other magistrates on the south side, and the Curia in the middle. This occurrence of being tripartite is seen as a common aspect of Roman culture as well as in other areas of archaeology such as the later with the Curia Julia and around the 4th/3rd century BC with the south halls of the Forum at Pompeii.\n\nThe Comitium, a circular-like mini amphitheater, was most likely stairs to the Curia. For Rome, it is seen that the ‘seats’ of the Comitium were also used as the stairs to get to the Curia so we can deduce, from the similarities of Rome and Cosa, that this was most likely the case for Cosa as well. The Curia is used for the proper assemblies of the magistrates, while the Comitium was most likely used for public events, assemblies, funerals, and speeches. The Comitium seats would most likely have been stood on first to allow for more people to assemble and second because the size and shape (about 33 cm x 40 cm wide) would not have allowed for comfortable seating. Approximately 600 people could stand on the Comitium steps with others around the Comitium looking at some type of Rostra where the speaker would be.\n\nSeparate from the Arx, Temples B and C stood side by side to the southeast of the basilica. Little of Temple C, the smaller of the two, remains visible. Temple B consisted of an extended terraced forecourt and at least one stone-vaulted cistern. Temple B presents several important considerations, beginning with the fact that its remains show no significant program of architectural redesign. The building also showed that terracottas could remain in one place for a long time or be replaced by units made in the original molds. Finally, deposits of the different cresting subtypes showed that two pediments could carry different decorative schemes permanently and concurrently.\n\nThe ancient port of Cosa is located below the city on the hill to the southeast. It was likely founded at the same time as the early Roman colony in 273 BC, and thus represents the earliest Roman harbor known thus far. The port was initially associated with the Etruscans, however excavations have determined that it was first used by the Romans in the 3rd century BC and continued being used into the 3rd century AD, as confirmed by the material evidence. The Cosa harbor was never a major port of transit, however in ancient times it provided the best anchorage between Gaeta in the south and La Spezia to the north. This was probably a primary reason for the colony’s position within newly acquired Etruscan territory. Eventually the harbor established its own community, including a temple dedicated either to Portunus or Neptune, which resembled the Temple on the Arx and probably also dates to 170-160. In addition, remains of fish tanks have been found which suggest the importance of aquiculture and the production of garum. The port’s main period of prosperity occurred from the late 2nd century BC through the later 1st century BC, and there was a revival by the 2nd and 3rd centuries AD due to the growth of the villa economy in the countryside of Cosa. Although the city of Cosa and the port must have interacted in important ways, material evidence indicates that they do not follow a parallel development.\n\nThe port at Cosa was first surveyed by Professor Frank E. Brown of the American Academy in Rome in 1951. According to Anna Marguerite McCann, one of the later excavators, “in antiquity Cosa was a landlocked port, communicating with the sea by means of an artificial ship-channel, protected at the seaward end by a massive breakwater and provided with a set of elaborate channels cut into the limestone cliff, designed to keep the mouth free of sand.” Another lead excavator, Colonel John D. Lewis, invented two new technical devices: a water jet prober to help identify structures buried in the sand, and a construction of sheet steel formed by joining cylinders which could be used to obtain harbor stratification. This allowed finds to be recovered in a stratified context for the first time in underwater archaeology, and established ancient harbor levels for Cosa between one meter and one meter eighty below the current sea floor. Many fragments of transport amphorae have been found on the beach and offshore areas of the harbor, the earliest of which date to the late 3rd century. This provides support for the belief that there was a lucrative wine trade based in the Cosa area, especially because many of the amphorae were stamped with the sign of the Sestius family, major exporters of wine whose trade network extended into Gaul. The earliest Sestius amphorae found at Cosa date to 175-150 and continue into the 1st century. The abundance of Sestius amphorae fragments suggest that the port of Cosa was likely the center of manufacturing and distribution of these famous jars, which firmly places Cosa as a key trading center during the late Republic.\n\nThere are visible remains of five large masonry piers in the outer harbor, which are built from mortared rubblework of tufa and sherds. The sherds are mostly from amphorae of Dressel Type I, suggesting a construction date during the 2nd or 1st centuries BC. The concrete masonry piers provide the earliest evidence for the use of tufo and pozzolana concrete in water, probably dating to the late 2nd or early 1st century BC. Tufo and pozzolana are resistant to deterioration in basic solutions such as salt water, and therefore this type of concrete was used throughout the entire complex in structures that were in constant contact with water. There is also a continuous foundation of stone (only visible underwater) for a breakwater which offered protection on the southern exposure, as well as a series of discontinuous extensions of the breakwater protecting the harbor from the south and southwest winds; \"their spacing suggests that they were constructed with the primary purpose of breaking the crushing force of the seas without affecting the flow of currents in and out of the enclosed harbor area.\"\n\nExcavations have uncovered the earliest known commercial fishery about 250 meters behind the port, complete with two long fish tanks and a fresh water spring enclosed in a Spring House (on the western embankment). According to McCann, “connecting channels allowed for a continuing circulation of water and fish as well as salinity and temperature control.\" The evidence points to a large-scale fishing industry at Cosa, and it is believed that there may have been a factory close by for salting fish and producing the fish sauce garum (trade in garum is thought to have been much more lucrative than most wines).\n\nMcCann points out that “the layer of mud deposited around and on top of the dock as well as the presence of many joining sherds suggests the possibility of destruction by a sudden disaster, such as a tsunami which swept into the inner lagoon.\" Today the port of Cosa is deserted and the inner lagoon is silted up; however this once-flourishing port provides valuable insights about Roman harbor construction and trade. It forms an important link between the natural breakwaters on the Greek and Etruscan ports and the elaborate engineering of man-made harbors of the Roman Empire (such as the Trajanic port at Ostia). The city was likely founded in order to provide a strategically defendable port “close to the sources of timber and supplies from the Tuscan hinterland which would be necessary in the creation of the fleets Rome soon was to need in her first struggles for maritime supremacy with Carthage.\" The port of Cosa provides us with the earliest Roman harbor known thus far, the earliest commercial fishery, the earliest evidence for the use of tufo and pozzolana concrete in water, and many other revolutionary and innovative practices, as well as imparting key insights, through the material evidence at the fishery and the Sestius amphorae, about the trade of fish, garum, and wine in the ancient world.\n\nThe site has played an important role in the interpretation of Roman colonization during the Middle Republican period. The housing has been the subject of two extensive publications. One, by R. T. Scott (1993), deals with a series of small houses in the western part of the site. These occupy street frontages of around 8 metres, with open courtyard spaces and gardens in the rear. They bear a strong resemblance to similar houses of the 2nd century BC at Pompeii. On the forum, the House of Diana was excavated and restored between 1995 and 1999. It was published in full by E. Fentress (2004), and a detailed report on the stratigraphy is available on the web (http://www.press.umich.edu/webhome/cosa/home.html) This was a much larger house, on a standard atrium plan, very similar to that of the House of Sallust in Pompeii. Built around 170 BC, it was entirely rebuilt in the Augustan period, from which we have a fine series of frescoes and mosaics. In the 50s, it seems to have become the house of Lucius Titinius Glaucus Lucretianus, and a small sanctuary to the goddess Diana was added in the rear garden.\n\nThe smaller houses strongly resembled the Pompeii-style houses of the time, measuring about 8 meters wide, containing a tablinium-type room and a minimum of one cubiculum, and were grouped around a courtyard. These smaller houses are typical of Roman housing of the Republican period, but the larger houses do not resemble typical housing of the time. The private houses surrounding the forum contrasts the findings of Scott and what was previously thought about the houses at Cosa because they were much bigger and did not match the archetypical layout. The houses elsewhere in the colony that have been excavated are only half as wide as the large houses surrounding the forum. There are a few possibilities as to what the larger houses meant in the grand scheme of the colony. Archaeologist Vincent Bruno suggests that this “quality of the unexpected may perhaps be regarded as a symptom of the period in which Roman builders were still experimenting with structural ideas later employed in more rigidly symmetrical compositions”. Elizabeth Fentress suggests that the differentiation in house size is due to a colonist class distinction. The houses near the forum and along the processional streets are almost certainly…houses for two classes of colonists, some of whom received plots twice as large as the others. The smaller houses are those of the ordinary colonists, with clear parallels at Pompeii and elsewhere. Regardless of the reasoning behind the different sizes and layouts of the private spaces, the houses at Cosa are extremely telling of the history of Cosa after 273 BC. Scott’s excavations of the West Block show \"not only the effects of the sack and subsequent abandonment of the town in the first century BC, but also those of more recent and seasonal occupation by small farmers and herdsmen between the beginning of the 18th and 19th century.\"\n\nCosa appears to have been affected by an earthquake in 51, which occasioned the reconstruction of the republican Basilica as an Odeon under the supervision of Lucius Titinius Glaucus Lucretianus, who also worked on the Capitoline temple; however, as early as 80, Cosa seems to have been almost deserted. It was revived under the emperor Caracalla, during whose reign was built the portico around the forum, concealing two large granaries, while the odeon were restored, a Mithraeum was constructed in the basement of the Curia, and a sanctuary to Liber erected at the southeast end of the Forum. The new town did not last long, however, and by the 4th century only the sanctuary of Liber was periodically visited. In the early 6th century some occupation in the ruins is attested by pottery and the remains of a church have been found built onto the Basilica. Perhaps at the same time the Arx was occupied by a fortified farm, subsequently transformed into a small fortified outpost under Byzantine control. This was abandoned in the late 6th or early 7th century. It is possible that the intermittent nature of the occupation of the town was due to the fact that, already in the early Empire, malaria was hyperendemic on the coast of Tuscany.\n\nCosa appears in some documents dating from the 11th century, although a 9th-century occupation is suggested by frescoes at the abbey of S. Anastasio alle Tre Fontane in Rome, recording the capture of the site by Charlemagne and Pope Leo III. However, no sign of occupation between the eighth and the tenth century has been recovered. By the end of the 10th century, a small cemetery was found next to a church built over a temple facing the forum. The town is recorded as \"Ansedoniam civitatem\" in a privilege of Pope Gregory VII (1073-1085).\n\nOccupation of the site began with a few sunken-floored buildings, but by the 11th century it was concentrated on the Eastern Height, now surrounded by a double bank and ditch. In the 12th century, a tower was built in the centre of these fortifications, with a large cistern on two sides. That this cistern was subsequently used as a prison is suggested by graffiti on its plaster lining, one of which gives the date of 1211.\n\nThe castle, belonging to the Aldobrandeschi family in 1269, was destroyed by the Sienese army in 1329, on the pretext that it was occupied by bandits. A catapult or trebuchet base found on the Eastern Height may have formed part of the defences at this time. The site remained deserted after this time.\n\nA large villa complex in the \"Ager Cosanus\" at Settefinestre was excavated by Andrea Carandini in the 1970s.\n\n\nFINAL PUBLICATIONS\n\n\nMATERIALS\n\nEPIGRAPHY\n\nSTUDIES\n\nINTERIM REPORTS\n\nTHE TERRITORY OF COSA AND THE LOWER ALBEGNA VALLEY IN THE ROMAN PERIOD\n\n"}
{"id": "63792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63792", "title": "Courtly love", "text": "Courtly love\n\nCourtly love (Occitan: \"Fin'amor\" French: \"Amour Courtois\") was a medieval European literary conception of love that emphasized nobility and chivalry. Medieval literature is filled with examples of knights setting out on adventures and performing various services for ladies because of their \"courtly love\". This kind of love is originally a literary fiction created for the entertainment of the nobility, but as time passed, these ideas about love changed and attracted a larger audience. In the high Middle Ages, a \"game of love\" developed around these ideas as a set of social practices. \"Loving nobly\" was considered to be an enriching and improving practice.\n\nCourtly love began in the ducal and princely courts of Aquitaine, Provence, Champagne, ducal Burgundy and the Norman Kingdom of Sicily at the end of the eleventh century. In essence, courtly love was an experience between erotic desire and spiritual attainment, \"a love at once illicit and morally elevating, passionate and disciplined, humiliating and exalting, human and transcendent\".\n\nThe term \"courtly love\" was first popularized by Gaston Paris and has since come under a wide variety of definitions and uses. Its interpretation, origins and influences continue to be a matter of critical debate.\n\nWhile its origin is uncertain, the term \"amour courtois\" (\"courtly love\") was given greater popularity by Gaston Paris in his 1883 article \"Études sur les romans de la Table Ronde: Lancelot du Lac, II: \"Le conte de la charrette\"\", a treatise inspecting Chrétien de Troyes's \"Lancelot, the Knight of the Cart\" (1177). Paris said \"amour courtois\" was an idolization and ennobling discipline. The lover (idolizer) accepts the independence of his mistress and tries to make himself worthy of her by acting bravely and honorably (nobly) and by doing whatever deeds she might desire, subjecting himself to a series of tests (ordeals) to prove to her his ardor and commitment. Sexual satisfaction, Paris said, may not have been a goal or even end result, but the love was not entirely Platonic either, as it was based on sexual attraction.\n\nThe term and Paris's definition were soon widely accepted and adopted. In 1936 C. S. Lewis wrote \"The Allegory of Love\" further solidifying courtly love as a \"love of a highly specialized sort, whose characteristics may be enumerated as Humility, Courtesy, Adultery, and the Religion of Love\".\n\nLater, historians such as D. W. Robertson, Jr., in the 1960s and John C. Moore and E. Talbot Donaldson in the 1970s, were critical of the term as being a modern invention, Donaldson calling it \"The Myth of Courtly Love\", because it is not supported in medieval texts. Even though the term \"courtly love\" does appear only in just one extant Provençal poem (as \"cortez amors\" in a late 12th-century lyric by Peire d'Alvernhe), it is closely related to the term \"fin'amor\" (\"fine love\") which does appear frequently in Provençal and French, as well as German translated as \"hohe Minne\". In addition, other terms and phrases associated with \"courtliness\" and \"love\" are common throughout the Middle Ages. Even though Paris used a term with little support in the contemporaneous literature, it was not a neologism and does usefully describe a particular conception of love and focuses on the courtliness that was at its essence.\n\nRichard Trachsler says that \"the concept of courtly literature is linked to the idea of the existence of courtly texts, texts produced and read by men and women sharing some kind of elaborate culture they all have in common\". He argues that many of the texts that scholars claim to be courtly also include \"uncourtly\" texts, and argues that there is no clear way to determine \"where courtliness ends and uncourtliness starts\" because readers would enjoy texts which were supposed to be entirely courtly without realizing they were also enjoying texts which were uncourtly. This presents a clear problem in the understanding of courtliness.\n\nThe practice of courtly love was developed in the castle life of four regions: Aquitaine, Provence, Champagne and ducal Burgundy, from around the time of the First Crusade (1099). Eleanor of Aquitaine brought ideals of courtly love from Aquitaine first to the court of France, then to England, where she was queen to two kings. Her daughter Marie, Countess of Champagne brought courtly behavior to the Count of Champagne's court. Courtly love found its expression in the lyric poems written by troubadours, such as William IX, Duke of Aquitaine (1071–1126), one of the first troubadour poets.\n\nPoets adopted the terminology of feudalism, declaring themselves the vassal of the lady and addressing her as \"midons\" (my lord), which had the dual benefits of both allowing the poet to use a code name (so as to avoid having to reveal the lady's name) and at the same time be flattering by addressing her as his lord. The troubadour's model of the ideal lady was the wife of his employer or lord, a lady of higher status, usually the rich and powerful female head of the castle. When her husband was away on Crusade or other business she dominated the household and cultural affairs; sometimes this was the case even when the husband was at home. The lady was rich and powerful and the poet gave voice to the aspirations of the courtier class, for only those who were noble could engage in courtly love. This new kind of love saw nobility not based on wealth and family history, but on character and actions; thus appealing to poorer knights who saw an avenue for advancement. \nSince at the time some marriages among nobility had little to do with modern perspectives of what constitutes love, courtly love was also a way for nobles to express the love not found in their marriage. \"Lovers\" in the context of courtly love need not refer to sex, but rather the act of emotional loving. These \"lovers\" had short trysts in secret, which escalated mentally, but might not physically. On the other hand, continual references to beds and sleeping in the lover's arms in medieval sources such as the trobador \"albas\" and romances such as Chrétien de Troyes's \"Lancelot\" imply at least in some cases a context of actual sexual intercourse.\n\nThe rules of courtly love were codified by the late 12th century in Andreas Capellanus' highly influential work \"De Amore\" (\"Concerning Love\"). \"De amore\" lists such rules as \"Marriage is no real excuse for not loving\", \"He who is not jealous cannot love\", \"No one can be bound by a double love\", and \"When made public love rarely endures\". Much of its structure and its sentiments were derived from Ovid's \"Ars amatoria\".\n\nHispano-Arabic literature, as well as Arabic influence on Sicily, provided a further source, in parallel with Ovid, for the early troubadours of Provence—overlooked though this sometimes is in accounts of courtly love. The Arabic poets and poetry of Muslim Spain express similarly oxymoronic views of love as both beneficial and distressing as the troubadours were to do; while the broader European contact with the Islamic world must also be taken into consideration.\n\nGiven that practices similar to courtly love were already prevalent in Al-Andalus and elsewhere in the Islamic world, it is very likely that Islamic practices influenced the Christian Europeans. William IX, Duke of Aquitaine, for example, was involved in the ongoing Reconquista in Spain, so that he would have come into contact with Muslim culture a great deal.\n\nAccording to Gustave E. von Grunebaum, there were several relevant elements which developed in Arabic literature, including such contrasts as sickness/medicine and delight/torment to characterise the love experience. The notions of \"love for love's sake\" and \"exaltation of the beloved lady\" have been traced back to Arabic literature of the 9th and 10th centuries. The notion of the \"ennobling power\" of love was developed in the early 11th century by the Persian psychologist and philosopher, Ibn Sina (known as \"Avicenna\" in Europe), in his treatise \"Risala fi'l-Ishq\" (\"Treatise on Love\"). The final element of courtly love, the concept of \"love as desire never to be fulfilled\", was at times implicit in Arabic poetry, but was first developed into a doctrine in European literature, in which all four elements of courtly love were present.\n\nAccording to an argument outlined by Maria Rosa Menocal in \"The Arabic Role in Medieval Literary History\", in 11th-century Spain, a group of wandering poets appeared who would go from court to court, and sometimes travel to Christian courts in southern France, a situation closely mirroring what would happen in southern France about a century later. Contacts between these Spanish poets and the French troubadours were frequent. The metrical forms used by the Spanish poets were similar to those later used by the troubadours. \n\nThe historic analysis of courtly love varies between different schools of historians. That sort of history which views the early Middle Ages dominated by a prudish and patriarcal theocracy, views courtly love as a \"humanist\" reaction to the puritanical views of the Catholic Church. In the language of the scholars who endorse this view, courtly love is cherished for its exaltation of femininity as an ennobling, spiritual, and moral force, in contrast to the ironclad chauvinism of the first and second estates. The condemnation of courtly love in the beginning of the 13th century by the church as heretical, is seen by these scholars as the Church's attempt to put down this \"sexual rebellion\".\n\nHowever, other scholars note that courtly love was certainly tied to the Church's effort to civilize the crude Germanic feudal codes in the late 11th century. It has also been suggested that the prevalence of arranged marriages required other outlets for the expression of more personal occurrences of romantic love, and thus it was not in reaction to the prudery or patriarchy of the Church but to the nuptial customs of the era that courtly love arose.\n\nIn the Germanic cultural world a special form of courtly love can be found, namely \"Minne\".\n\nAt times, the lady could be a \"princesse lointaine\", a far-away princess, and some tales told of men who had fallen in love with women whom they had never seen, merely on hearing their perfection described, but normally she was not so distant. As the etiquette of courtly love became more complicated, the knight might wear the colors of his lady: where blue or black were sometimes the colors of faithfulness, green could be a sign of unfaithfulness. Salvation, previously found in the hands of the priesthood, now came from the hands of one's lady. In some cases, there were also women troubadours who expressed the same sentiment for men.\n\nThe literary convention of courtly love can be found in most of the major authors of the Middle Ages such as Geoffrey Chaucer, John Gower, Dante, Marie de France, Chretien de Troyes, Gottfried von Strassburg and Sir Thomas Malory.\n\nThe medieval genres in which courtly love conventions can be found include the lyric, the Romance and the allegory.\n\nCourtly love was born in the lyric, first appearing with Provençal poets in the 11th century, including itinerant and courtly minstrels such as the French troubadours and trouvères, as well as the writers of lays.\n\nTexts about courtly love, including lays, were often set to music by troubadours or minstrels. According to scholar Ardis Butterfield, courtly love is \"the air which many genres of troubadour song breathe\". Not much is known about how, when, where, and for whom these pieces were performed, but we can infer that the pieces were performed at court by troubadours, trouvères, or the courtiers themselves. This can be inferred because people at court were encouraged or expected to be \"courtly\" and be proficient in many different areas, including music. Several troubadours became extremely wealthy playing the fiddle and singing their songs about courtly love for a courtly audience.\n\nIt is difficult to know how and when these songs were performed because most of the information on these topics is provided in the music itself. One lay, the \"Lay of Lecheor\", says that after a lay was composed, \nScholars have to then decide whether to take this description as truth or fiction.\n\nPeriod examples of performance practice, of which there are few, show a quiet scene with a household servant performing for the king or lord and a few other people, usually unaccompanied. According to scholar Christopher Page, whether or not a piece was accompanied depended on the availability of instruments and people to accompany—in a courtly setting. For troubadours or minstrels, pieces were often accompanied by fiddle, also called a vielle, or a harp. Courtly musicians also played the vielle and the harp, as well as different types of viols and flutes as well.\n\nThis French tradition spread later to the German Minnesänger, such as Walther von der Vogelweide and Wolfram von Eschenbach. It also influenced the Sicilian School of Italian vernacular poetry, as well as Petrarch and Dante.\n\nThe vernacular poetry of the \"romans courtois\", or courtly romances, included many examples of courtly love. Some of them are set within the cycle of poems celebrating King Arthur's court. This was a literature of leisure, directed to a largely female audience for the first time in European history.\n\nAllegory is common in the romantic literature of the Middle Ages, and it was often used to interpret what was already written. There is a strong connection between religious imagery and human sexual love in medieval writings.\n\nThe tradition of medieval allegory began in part with the interpretation of the Song of Songs in the Bible. Some medieval writers thought that the book should be taken literally as an erotic text; others believed that the Song of Songs was a metaphor for the relationship between Christ and the church and that the book could not even exist without that as its metaphorical meaning. Still others claimed that the book was written literally about sex but that this meaning must be \"superseded by meanings related to Christ, to the church and to the individual Christian soul\".\n\nMarie de France's lai \"Eliduc\" toys with the idea that human romantic love is a symbol for God's love when two people love each other so fully and completely that they leave each other for God, separating and moving to different religious environments. Furthermore, the main character’s first wife leaves her husband and becomes a nun so that he can marry his new lover.\n\nAllegorical treatment of courtly love is also found in the \"Roman de la Rose\" by Guillaume de Lorris and Jean de Meun. In it, a man becomes enamored with an individual rose on a rosebush, attempting to pick it and finally succeeding. The rose represents the female body, but the romance also contains lengthy digressive \"discussions on free will versus determinism as well as on optics and the influence of heavenly bodies on human behavior\".\n\nThrough such routes as Capellanus's record of the Courts of Love and the later works of Petrarchism (as well as the continuing influence of Ovid), the themes of courtly love were not confined to the medieval, but appear both in serious and comic forms in early modern Europe.\n\nShakespeare's \"Romeo and Juliet,\" for example, shows Romeo attempting to love Rosaline in an almost contrived courtly fashion while Mercutio mocks him for it; and both in his plays and his sonnets the writer can be seen appropriating the conventions of courtly love for his own ends.\n\nPaul Gallico's 1939 novel \"The Adventures of Hiram Holliday\" depicts a Romantic modern American consciously seeking to model himself on the ideal Medieval knight. Among other things, when finding himself in Austria in the aftermath of the Anchluss, he saves a Habsburg princess who is threatened by the Nazis, acts towards her in strict accordance with the maxims of courtly love and finally wins her after fighting a duel with her aristocratic betrothed.\n\nA point of ongoing controversy about courtly love is to what extent it was sexual. All courtly love was erotic to some degree, and not purely platonic—the troubadours speak of the physical beauty of their ladies and the feelings and desires the ladies arouse in them. However, it is unclear what a poet should do: live a life of perpetual desire channeling his energies to higher ends, or physically consummate. Scholars have seen it both ways.\n\nDenis de Rougemont said that the troubadours were influenced by Cathar doctrines which rejected the pleasures of the flesh and that they were metaphorically addressing the spirit and soul of their ladies. Rougemont also said that courtly love subscribed to the code of chivalry, and therefore a knight's loyalty was always to his King before his mistress. Edmund Reiss claimed it was also a spiritual love, but a love that had more in common with Christian love, or \"caritas\". On the other hand, scholars such as Mosché Lazar claim it was adulterous sexual love with physical possession of the lady the desired end.\n\nMany scholars identify courtly love as the \"pure love\" described in 1184 by Andreas Capellanus in \"De amore libri tres\":\n\nWithin the corpus of troubadour poems there is a wide range of attitudes, even across the works of individual poets. Some poems are physically sensual, even bawdily imagining nude embraces, while others are highly spiritual and border on the platonic.\n\nThe lyrical use of the word \"midons,\" borrowed from Guilhem de Poitou, allowed troubadours to address multiple listeners—the lords, men, and women of the court alike. A sort of hermaphroditic code word, or \"senhan,\" scholar Meg Bogin writes, the multiple meanings behind this term allowed a covert form of flattery: \"By refusing to disclose his lady's name, the troubadour permitted every woman in the audience, notably the patron's wife, to think that it was she; then, besides making her the object of a secret passion—it was \"always\" covert romance—by making her his lord he flashed her an aggrandized image of herself: she was more than 'just' a woman; she was a man.\" These points of multiple meaning and ambiguity facilitated a \"coquetry of class\", allowing the male troubadours to use the images of women as a means to gain social status with other men, but simultaneously, Bogin suggests, voiced deeper longings for the audience: \"In this way, the sexual expressed the social and the social the sexual; and in the poetry of courtly love the static hierarchy of feudalism was uprooted and transformed to express a world of motion and transformation.\"\n\nThe medieval phenomenon of courtly love in all of its slavish devotion and ambivalence has been suggested by some writers to be a precursor of BDSM. \n\nA continued point of controversy is whether courtly love was purely literary or was actually practiced in real life. There are no historical records that offer evidence of its presence in reality. Historian John Benton found no documentary evidence in law codes, court cases, chronicles or other historical documents. However, the existence of the non-fiction genre of courtesy books is perhaps evidence for its practice. For example, according to Christine de Pizan's courtesy book \"Book of the Three Virtues\" (c. 1405), which expresses disapproval of courtly love, the convention was being used to justify and cover up illicit love affairs. Courtly love probably found expression in the real world in customs such as the crowning of Queens of Love and Beauty at tournaments. Philip le Bon, in his Feast of the Pheasant in 1454, relied on parables drawn from courtly love to incite his nobles to swear to participate in an anticipated crusade, while well into the 15th century numerous actual political and social conventions were largely based on the formulas dictated by the \"rules\" of courtly love.\n\nA point of controversy was the existence of \"courts of love\", first mentioned by Andreas Capellanus. These were supposed courts made up of tribunals staffed by 10 to 70 women who would hear a case of love and rule on it based on the rules of love. In the 19th century, historians took the existence of these courts as fact, but later historians such as Benton noted \"none of the abundant letters, chronicles, songs and pious dedications\" suggest they ever existed outside of the poetic literature. According to Diane Bornstein, one way to reconcile the differences between the references to courts of love in the literature, and the lack of documentary evidence in real life, is that they were like literary salons or social gatherings, where people read poems, debated questions of love, and played word games of flirtation.\n\nThe Church emphasized love as more of a spiritual rather than sexual connection. There is a possibility that other writings not associated with the Church over courtly love were made as a response to the Catholic Church’s ideas about love. Many scholars believe Andreas Capellanus’ work, \"De arte honeste amandi\", was a satire poking fun at the Church. In that work, Capellanus is supposedly writing to a young man named Walter, and he spends the first two books telling him how to achieve love and the rules of love. However, in the third book he tells him that the only way to live his life correctly is to shun love in favor of God. This sudden change is what has sparked the interest of many scholars.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31973054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31973054", "title": "Cuisine of Tegucigalpa", "text": "Cuisine of Tegucigalpa\n\nThe cuisine of Tegucigalpa refers to the cuisine and restaurants of the city of Tegucigalpa, Honduras. Rice, beans, and tortillas are a staple of the Honduran diet, and some would argue there is little difference in quality between streetside vendor or a top restaurant. The city, like in most other places in Honduras, offers a wide variety of cuisine of taste from not only Honduras but also from Asia, India, the Middle East, and other countries. It offers food varieties from street food to gourmet food in five star restaurants with candlelit ambiance. However, according to Frommer's, the \"Tegucigalpa's dining scene is considerably more varied when compared to the rest of the country, but lack the quality and depth of other Latin American cities.\"\n\nIn recent years some notable Japanese, Italian and international restaurants have appeared in the city, marking it as different from the rest of the country with a fusion of styles. Of major note in this respect are the Japanese restaurants of \"Akai Kuroi\" which serves sushi, sashimi and teppanyaki, and \"Nobu\" which serves sushi, sashimi and fresh seafood, tempura, pad Thai, curries and soups. \"Gino's\" is the Italian restaurant of note, owned by the Honorary Consul General to Belize, and serves pastas, with sauces and rosemary and sea salt-scented focaccia, washed down with cappuccino.\nRestaurants of note serving international cuisine are \"Charlotte's Bistro\", \"Porcao\" and the \"La Cumbre\" Restaurant which serves German (foods such as Jagerschnitzels and pork medallions) and international cuisine and the Fine London Pub which serves British and international cuisine (such as burgers, salads and seafood). Hamburgers are popular all across the city with burger restaurants such as \"BIGOS Hamburguesas Hondureñas\" and global firms such as McDonald's. The most notable restaurant serving Honduran cuisine is \"El Patio\", opened in the 1970s, which cooks grilled meat and chicken, kebabs of chicken, beef, shrimp, chorizo, and dishes such as anafre (bean and cheese fondue) and chuleta de cerdo (pork chops). However, most dishes are served with fries and onion rings.\n\n\"Don Quijote\" restaurant, with branches in La Leona and Valle de Angeles serves Spanish cuisine such as paellas and international fusion.\n\nAn old fashioned and elegant restaurant, displaying a plaque reading \"Here Lived Dr Policarpo Bonilla, President of the Republic from 1894 to 1899\" is known for its continental and local cuisine and well stocked wines.\n\nHonduran cuisines (which is a fusion of African, Spanish, and indigenous cuisine), particularly beef specialties, are served in the Epocas restaurant. Anafre, a delicacy of black beans with cheese fondue with vegetables, is a popular dish of the Restaurant El Anafre, in the central plaza area.\n\nThere is also a notable Argentine restaurant in Tegucigalpa called \"Ni Fu Ni Fa\" which serves thick imported beef steaks and Argentine wine and a Cuban restaurant \"Sabor Cubano\" which serves Cuban dishes such as ropa vieja (flank steak in a tomato sauce), estofado de cerdo (braised garlic pork) and Cuban pastries and cocktails, being a notable venue for live music and dancing in the evenings.\n\nPupusas, baleadas (wheat flour tortillas), soups, grilled beef and chicken are popular dishes served during lunch in the food stands around Iglesia Los Dolores.\n"}
{"id": "51405486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51405486", "title": "Cultural variation", "text": "Cultural variation\n\nCultural variation refers to the rich diversity in social practices that different cultures exhibit around the world. Music, language, dance, cuisine and art all change from one culture to the next, but so do gender roles, economic systems, and social hierarchy among any number of other humanly organised behaviours. Cultural variation can be studied across cultures (for example, a cross-cultural study of ritual in Indonesia and Brazil) or across generations (for example, a comparison of Generation X and Generation Y) and is often a subject studied by anthropologists, sociologists and cultural theorists with subspecialties in the fields of economic anthropology, ethnomusicology, health sociology etc. In recent years, cultural variation has become a rich source of study in neuroanthropology, cultural neuroscience, and social neuroscience.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58364235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58364235", "title": "Daniil Dondurey", "text": "Daniil Dondurey\n\nDaniil Borisovich Dondurey (; May 19, 1947, Ulyanovsk — May 10, 2017, Israel) was a Soviet and Russian culturologist, film critic, sociologist of the media, editor in chief of the journal Iskusstvo Kino. Candidate of Philosophy.\n\nHe was a member of Presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights, and a member of the Public Council of the Russian Jewish Congress.\n\nHe was born into the family of engineer Boris Danilovich Dondurey and lawyer Faina Moiseevna Cher.\n\nIn 1975-1981 he worked at the Institute of the History of Art, in 1981-1986 in the Scientific Research Institute of Culture of the RSFSR.\n\nHe compiled a number of scientific collections on the sociology of culture, theory and history of the fine arts, theater and cinema. His works have been translated and published in Bulgaria, Hungary, Vietnam, Germany, Italy, Cuba, Poland, Romania, USA, France, Czechoslovakia.\n\n"}
{"id": "9090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9090", "title": "Dhimmi", "text": "Dhimmi\n\nA ( \"\", , collectively \"/\" \"the people of the \"dhimma\"\") is a historical term referring to non-Muslims living in an Islamic state with legal protection. The word literally means \"protected person\". Dhimmis had their rights fully protected in their communities, but as citizens in the Islamic state, had certain restrictions, and it was obligatory for them to pay the jizya tax, which complemented the zakat, or alms, paid by the Muslim subjects. Dhimmis were exempt from certain duties assigned specifically to Muslims, and did not enjoy certain political rights reserved for Muslims, but were otherwise equal under the laws of property, contract, and obligation.\n\nUnder sharia, the dhimmi communities were usually subjected to their own special laws, and exempt from some laws applicable to the Muslim community. For example, the Jewish community in Medina was allowed to have its own Halakhic courts, and the Ottoman millet system allowed its various dhimmi communities to rule themselves under separate legal courts. These courts did not cover cases that involved religious groups outside of their own community, or capital offences. Dhimmi communities were also allowed to engage in certain practices that were usually forbidden for the Muslim community, such as the consumption of alcohol and pork.\n\nHistorically, dhimmi status was originally applied to Jews, Christians, and Sabians. This status later also came to be applied to Zoroastrians, Hindus, Jains and Buddhists.\n\nModerate Muslims generally reject the dhimma system as inappropriate for the age of nation-states and democracies. There is a range of opinions among 20th century and contemporary theologians about whether the notion of dhimma is appropriate for modern times, and, if so, what form it should take in an Islamic state.\n\nBased on Quranic verses and Islamic traditions, classical sharia distinguishes between Muslims, followers of other Abrahamic religions, and pagans or people belonging to other polytheistic religions. As monotheists, Jews and Christians have traditionally been considered \"People of the Book,\" and afforded a special status known as \"dhimmi\" derived from a theoretical contract—\"dhimma\" or \"residence in return for taxes\". In Yemenite Jewish sources, a treaty was drafted between Muhammad and his Jewish subjects, known as \"kitāb ḏimmat al-nabi\", written in the 17th year of the Hijra (638 CE), and which gave express liberty unto Jews living in Arabia to observe the Sabbath and to grow-out their side-locks, but were required to pay the jizya (poll-tax) annually for their protection by their patrons. There are parallels for this in Roman and Jewish law. Muslim governments in the Indus basin readily extended the dhimmi status to the Hindus and Buddhists of India. Eventually, the largest school of Islamic scholarship applied this term to all non-Muslims living in Islamic lands outside the sacred area surrounding Mecca, Saudi Arabia.\n\nClassical sharia incorporated the religious laws and courts of Christians, Jews and Hindus, as seen in the early caliphate, Al-Andalus, Indian subcontinent, and the Ottoman Millet system. Quoting the Qur'anic statement, \"Let Christians judge according to what We have revealed in the Gospel\", Muhammad Hamidullah writes that Islam has decentralized and \"communalized\" law and justice. In medieval Islamic societies, the \"qadi\" (Islamic judge) usually could not interfere in the matters of non-Muslims unless the parties voluntarily chose to be judged according to Islamic law, thus the dhimmi communities living in Islamic states usually had their own laws independent from the sharia law, as with the Jews who would have their own rabbinical courts. These courts did not cover cases that involved other religious groups, or capital offences or threats to public order. By the 18th century, however, dhimmis frequently attended the Ottoman Muslim courts, where cases were taken against them by Muslims, or they took cases against Muslims or other dhimmis. Oaths sworn by dhimmis in these courts were tailored to their beliefs.\n\nNon-Muslims were allowed to engage in certain practices (such as the consumption of alcohol and pork) that were usually forbidden by Islamic law, in point of fact, any Muslim who pours away their wine or forcibly appropriates it is liable to pay compensation. Zoroastrian \"self-marriages\", that were considered incestuous under sharia, were also tolerated. Ibn Qayyim Al-Jawziyya (1292–1350) opined that non-Muslims were entitled to such practices since they could not be presented to sharia courts and the religious minorities in question held it permissible. This ruling was based on the precedent that the Islamic prophet Muhammad did not forbid such self-marriages among Zoroastrians despite coming into contact with Zoroastrians and knowing about this practice. Religious minorities were also free to do as they wished in their own homes, provided they did not publicly engage in illicit sexual activity in ways that could threaten public morals.\n\nHowever, the classical dhimma contract is no longer enforced. Western influence has been instrumental in eliminating the restrictions and protections of the dhimma contract.\n\nAccording to law professor H. Patrick Glenn of McGill University, \"[t]oday it is said that the dhimmi are 'excluded from the specifically Muslim privileges, but on the other hand they are excluded from the specifically Muslim duties' while (and here there are clear parallels with western public and private law treatment of aliens—Fremdenrecht, la condition de estrangers), '[f]or the rest, the Muslim and the dhimmi are equal in practically the whole of the law of property and of contracts and obligations'.\"\n\nThe dhimma contract is an integral part of traditional Islamic sharia. From the 9th century AD, the power to interpret and refine law in traditional Islamic societies was in the hands of the scholars (\"ulama\"). This separation of powers served to limit the range of actions available to the ruler, who could not easily decree or reinterpret law independently and expect the continued support of the community. Through succeeding centuries and empires, the balance between the ulema and the rulers shifted and reformed, but the balance of power was never decisively changed. At the beginning of the 19th century, the Industrial Revolution and the French Revolution introduced an era of European world hegemony that included the domination of most of the lands of Islam. At the end of the Second World War, the European powers found themselves too weakened to maintain their empires. The wide variety in forms of government, systems of law, attitudes toward modernity and interpretations of sharia are a result of the ensuing drives for independence and modernity in the Muslim world.\n\nMuslim states, sects, schools of thought and individuals differ as to exactly what sharia law entails. In addition, Muslim states today utilize a spectrum of legal systems. Most states have a mixed system that implements certain aspects of sharia while acknowledging the supremacy of a constitution. A few, such as Turkey, have declared themselves secular. Local and customary laws may take precedence in certain matters, as well. Islamic law is therefore polynormative, and despite several cases of regression in recent years, the trend is towards modernization and liberalization. Questions of human rights and the status of minorities cannot be generalized with regards to the Muslim world. They must instead be examined on a case-by-case basis, within specific political and cultural contexts, using perspectives drawn from the historical framework.\n\nThe status of the dhimmi \"was for long accepted with resignation by the Christians and with gratitude by the Jews\" but the rising power of Christendom and the radical ideas of the French Revolution caused a wave of discontent among Christian dhimmis. The continuing and growing pressure from the European powers combined with pressure from Muslim reformers gradually relaxed the inequalities between Muslims and non-Muslims.\n\nOn 18 February 1856, the Ottoman Reform Edict of 1856 (Hatt-i Humayan) was issued, building upon the 1839 edict. It came about partly as a result of pressure from and the efforts of the ambassadors of Great Britain, France, and Austria, whose respective countries were needed as allies in the Crimean War. It again proclaimed the principle of equality between Muslims and non-Muslims, and produced many specific reforms to this end. For example, the jizya tax was abolished and non-Muslims were allowed to join the army.\n\n\nJews and Christians living under early Muslim rule were considered dhimmis, a status that was later also extended to other non-Muslims like Hindus. They were allowed to \"practise their religion, subject to certain conditions, and to enjoy a measure of communal autonomy\" and guaranteed their personal safety and security of property, in return for paying tribute and acknowledging Muslim rule. Islamic law and custom prohibited the enslavement of free dhimmis within lands under Islamic rule. Taxation from the perspective of dhimmis who came under the Muslim rule, was \"a concrete continuation of the taxes paid to earlier regimes\" (but lower under the Muslim rule). They were also exempted from the zakat tax paid by Muslims. The dhimmi communities living in Islamic states had their own laws independent from the Sharia law, such as the Jews who had their own Halakhic courts. The dhimmi communities had their own leaders, courts, personal and religious laws, and \"generally speaking, Muslim tolerance of unbelievers was far better than anything available in Christendom, until the rise of secularism in the 17th century\". \"Muslims guaranteed freedom of worship and livelihood, provided that they remained loyal to the Muslim state and paid a poll tax\". \"Muslim governments appointed Christian and Jewish professionals to their bureaucracies\", and thus, Christians and Jews \"contributed to the making of the Islamic civilization\".\n\nHowever, dhimmis faced social and symbolic restrictions, and a pattern of stricter, then more lax, enforcement developed over time. Marshall Hodgson, a historian of Islam, writes that during the era of the High Caliphate (7th–13th Centuries), zealous Shariah-minded Muslims gladly elaborated their code of symbolic restrictions on the dhimmis.\n\nFrom an Islamic legal perspective, the pledge of protection granted dhimmis the freedom to practice their religion and spared them forced conversions. The dhimmis also served a variety of useful purposes, mostly economic, which was another point of concern to jurists. Religious minorities were free to do whatever they wished in their own homes, but could not \"publicly engage in illicit sex in ways that threaten public morals\". In some cases, religious practices that Muslims found repugnant were allowed. One example was the Zoroastrian practice of incestuous \"self-marriage\" where a man could marry his mother, sister or daughter. According to the famous Islamic legal scholar Ibn Qayyim Al-Jawziyya (1292–1350), non-Muslims had the right to engage in such religious practices even if it offended Muslims, under the conditions that such cases not be presented to Islamic Sharia courts and that these religious minorities believed that the practice in question is permissible according to their religion. This ruling was based on the precedent that Muhammad did not forbid such self-marriages among Zoroastrians despite coming in contact with them and having knowledge of their practices.\n\nThe Arabs generally established garrisons outside towns in the conquered territories, and had little interaction with the local dhimmi populations for purposes other than the collection of taxes. The conquered Christian, Jewish, Mazdean and Buddhist communities were otherwise left to lead their lives as before.\n\nAccording to historians Lewis and Stillman, local Christians in Syria, Iraq, and Egypt were non-Chalcedonians and many may have felt better off under early Muslim rule than under that of the Byzantine Orthodox of Constantinople. In 1095, Pope Urban II urged western European Christians to come to the aid of the Christians of Palestine. The subsequent Crusades brought Roman Catholic Christians into contact with Orthodox Christians whose beliefs they discovered to differ from their own perhaps more than they had realized, and whose position under the rule of the Muslim Fatimid Caliphate was less uncomfortable than had been supposed. Consequently, the Eastern Christians provided perhaps less support to the Crusaders than had been expected. When the Arab East came under Ottoman rule in the 16th century, Christian populations and fortunes rebounded significantly. The Ottomans had long experience dealing with Christian and Jewish minorities, and were more tolerant towards religious minorities than the former Muslim rulers, the Mamluks of Egypt.\n\nHowever, Christians living under Islamic rule have suffered certain legal disadvantages and at times persecution. In the Ottoman Empire, in accordance with the \"dhimmi\" system implemented in Muslim countries, they, like all other Christians and also Jews, were accorded certain freedoms. The dhimmi system in the Ottoman Empire was largely based upon the Pact of Umar. The client status established the rights of the non-Muslims to property, livelihood and freedom of worship but they were in essence treated as second-class citizens in the empire and referred to in Turkish as \"gavours\", a pejorative word meaning \"infidel\" or \"unbeliever\". The clause of the Pact of Umar which prohibited non-Muslims from building new places of worship was historically imposed on some communities of the Ottoman Empire and ignored in other cases, at discretion of the local authorities. Although there were no laws mandating religious ghettos, this led to non-Muslim communities being clustered around existing houses of worship.\n\nIn addition to other legal limitations, Christians were not considered equals to Muslims and several prohibitions were placed on them. Their testimony against Muslims by Christians and Jews was inadmissible in courts of law wherein a Muslim could be punished; this meant that their testimony could only be considered in commercial cases. They were forbidden to carry weapons or ride atop horses and camels. Their houses could not overlook those of Muslims; and their religious practices were severely circumscribed (e.g., the ringing of church bells was strictly forbidden).\n\nBecause the early Islamic conquests initially preserved much of the existing administrative machinery and culture, in many territories they amounted to little more than a change of rulers for the subject populations, which \"brought peace to peoples demoralized and disaffected by the casualties and heavy taxation that resulted from the years of Byzantine-Persian warfare\".\n\nMaría Rosa Menocal, argues that the Jewish dhimmis living under the caliphate, while allowed fewer rights than Muslims, were still better off than in the Christian parts of Europe. Jews from other parts of Europe made their way to al-Andalus, where in parallel to Christian sects regarded as heretical by Catholic Europe, they were not just tolerated, but where opportunities to practice faith and trade were open without restriction save for the prohibitions on proselytization.\n\nBernard Lewis states:\n\nProfessor of Jewish medieval history at Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Hayim Hillel Ben-Sasson, notes:\n\nAccording to the French historian Claude Cahen, Islam has \"shown more toleration than Europe towards the Jews who remained in Muslim lands.\"\n\nComparing the treatment of Jews in the medieval Islamic world and medieval Christian Europe, Mark R. Cohen notes that, in contrast to Jews in Christian Europe, the \"Jews in Islam were well integrated into the economic life of the larger society\", and that they were allowed to practice their religion more freely than they could do in Christian Europe.\n\nAccording to the scholar Mordechai Zaken, tribal chieftains (also known as aghas) in tribal Muslim societies such as the Kurdish society in Kurdistan would tax their Jewish subjects. The Jews were in fact civilians protected by their chieftains in and around their communities; in return they paid part of their harvest as dues, and contributed their skills and services to their patron chieftain.\n\nBy the 10th century, the Turks of Central Asia had brought Islam to the mountains north of the Indic plains. At the end of the 12th century, the Muslims advanced quickly into the Ganges Plain. In one decade, a Muslim army led by Turkic slaves consolidated resistance around Lahore and brought northern India, as far as Bengal, under Muslim rule. From these Turkic slaves would come sultans, including the founder of the sultanate of Delhi. Muslims and dhimmis alike participated in urbanization and urban prosperity.\n\nBy the 15th century, Islamic and Hindu civilization had evolved in a complementary manner, with the Muslims taking the role of a ruling caste in Hindu society. Nevertheless, the Muslims retained their Islamic identities, and were in some ways regarded by Hindus in much the same light as their own lowest castes.\n\nIn the 16th century, India came under the influence of the Mughals (Mongols). Babur, a ruler of the Mongol Timuri empire, established a foothold in the north which paved the way for further expansion by his successors. Until it was eclipsed by European hegemony in the 18th century, the Timuri Moghul emperors oversaw a period of coexistence and tolerance between Hindus and Muslims. The emperor Akbar has been described as a universalist. He sought to establish tolerance and equality between all communities and religions, and instituted far reaching social and religious reforms. Not all the Mughal emperors endorsed the ideals espoused by Akbar, indeed Aurangzeb was inclined towards a more fundamentalist approach.\n\nThere were a number of restrictions on dhimmis. In a modern sense the dhimmis would be described as second-class citizens.\n\nAlthough \"dhimmis\" were allowed to perform their religious rituals, they were obliged to do so in a manner not conspicuous to Muslims. Display of non-Muslim religious symbols, such as crosses or icons, was prohibited on buildings and on clothing (unless mandated as part of distinctive clothing). Loud prayers were forbidden, as were the ringing of church bells and the blowing of the shofar. They were also not allowed to build or repair churches without Muslim consent. Moreover, dhimmis were not allowed to seek converts among Muslims. In the Mamluk Egypt, where non-Mamluk Muslims were not allowed to ride horses and camels, dhimmis were prohibited even from riding donkeys inside cities. Sometimes, Muslim rulers issued regulations requiring dhimmis to attach distinctive signs to their houses.\n\nMost of the restrictions were social and symbolic in nature, and a pattern of stricter, then more lax, enforcement developed over time. The major financial disabilities of the dhimmi were the jizya poll tax and the fact dhimmis and Muslims could not inherit from each other. That would create an incentive to convert if someone from the family had already converted. Ira M. Lapidus states that the \"payment of the poll tax seems to have been regular, but other obligations were inconsistently enforced and did not prevent many non-Muslims from being important political, business, and scholarly figures. In the late ninth and early tenth centuries, Jewish bankers and financiers were important at the 'Abbasid court.\" The jurists and scholars of Islamic sharia law called for humane treatment of the dhimmis.\n\nPayment of the \"jizya\" obligated Muslim authorities to protect dhimmis in civil and military matters. Sura 9 (At-Tawba), verse 29 stipulates that \"jizya\" be exacted from non-Muslims as a condition required for jihad to cease. Failure to pay the \"jizya\" could result in the pledge of protection of a dhimmi's life and property becoming void, with the dhimmi facing the alternatives of conversion, enslavement, death or imprisonment, as advocated by Abu Yusuf, the chief qadi (Islamic judge) of Abbasid caliph Harun al-Rashid who ruled over much of modern-day Iraq.\n\nLewis states there are varying opinions among scholars as to how much of a burden jizya was. According to Norman Stillman: \"\"jizya\" and \"kharaj\" were a \"crushing burden for the non-Muslim peasantry who eked out a bare living in a subsistence economy.\" Both agree that ultimately, the additional taxation on non-Muslims was a critical factor that drove many dhimmis to leave their religion and accept Islam. However, in some regions the jizya on populations was significantly lower than the zakat, meaning dhimmi populations maintained an economic advantage. According to Cohen, taxation, from the perspective of dhimmis who came under Muslim rule, was \"a concrete continuation of the taxes paid to earlier regimes\". Lewis observes that the change from Byzantine to Arab rule was welcomed by many among the dhimmis who found the new yoke far lighter than the old, both in taxation and in other matters, and that some, even among the Christians of Syria and Egypt, preferred the rule of Islam to that of Byzantines. Montgomery Watt states, \"the Christians were probably better off as dhimmis under Muslim-Arab rulers than they had been under the Byzantine Greeks.\" In some places, for example Egypt, the jizya was a tax incentive for Christians to convert to Islam.\n\nThe importance of dhimmis as a source of revenue for the Rashidun Caliphate is illustrated in a letter ascribed to Umar I and cited by Abu Yusuf: \"if we take dhimmis and share them out, what will be left for the Muslims who come after us? By God, Muslims would not find a man to talk to and profit from his labors.\"\n\nIslamic jurists required adult, free, healthy males among the dhimma community to pay the jizya, while exempting women, children, the elderly, slaves, those affected by mental or physical handicaps, and travelers who did not settle in Muslim lands.\n\nThe early Islamic scholars took a relatively humane and practical attitude towards the collection of \"jizya\", compared to the 11th century commentators writing when Islam was under threat both at home and abroad.\n\nThe jurist Abu Yusuf, the chief judge of the caliph Harun al-Rashid, rules as follows regarding the manner of collecting the jizya \n\nIn the border provinces, dhimmis were sometimes recruited for military operations. In such cases, they were exempted from jizya for the year of service.\n\nReligious pluralism existed in medieval Islamic law and ethics. The religious laws and courts of other religions, including Christianity, Judaism and Hinduism, were usually accommodated within the Islamic legal framework, as exemplified in the Caliphate, Al-Andalus, Ottoman Empire and Indian subcontinent. In medieval Islamic societies, the qadi (Islamic judge) usually could not interfere in the matters of non-Muslims unless the parties voluntarily chose to be judged according to Islamic law. The dhimmi communities living in Islamic states usually had their own laws independent from the Sharia law, such as the Jews who had their own Halakha courts.\n\nDhimmis were allowed to operate their own courts following their own legal systems. However, dhimmis frequently attended the Muslim courts in order to record property and business transactions within their own communities. Cases were taken out against Muslims, against other dhimmis and even against members of the dhimmi's own family. Dhimmis often took cases relating to marriage, divorce or inheritance to the Muslim courts so these cases would be decided under sharia law. Oaths sworn by dhimmis in the Muslim courts were sometimes the same as the oaths taken by Muslims, sometimes tailored to the dhimmis' beliefs.\n\nMuslim men could generally marry dhimmi women who are considered People of the Book, however Islamic jurists rejected the possibility any non-Muslim man might marry a Muslim woman. Bernard Lewis notes that \"similar position existed under the laws of Byzantine Empire, according to which a Christian could marry a Jewish woman, but a Jew could not marry a Christian woman under pain of death\".\n\nLewis states\n\nA hadith by Muhammad, \"Whoever killed a \"Mu'ahid\" (a person who is granted the pledge of protection by the Muslims) shall not smell the fragrance of Paradise though its fragrance can be smelt at a distance of forty years (of traveling).\", is considered to be a foundation for the protection of the People of the Book in Muslim ruled countries. Anwar Shah Kashmiri writes in his commentary on Sahih al-Bukhari \"Fayd al-Bari\" on this hadith: \"You know the gravity of sin for killing a Muslim, for its odiousness has reached the point of disbelief, and it necessitates that [the killer abides in Hell] forever. As for killing a non-Muslim citizen [mu'ahid], it is similarly no small matter, for the one who does it will not smell the fragrance of Paradise.\"\n\nA similar hadith in regard to the status of the dhimmis: \"Whoever wrongs one with whom a compact (treaty) has been made \"[i.e., a dhimmi]\" and lays on him a burden beyond his strength, I will be his accuser.\"\n\nA precedent for the dhimma contract was established with the agreement between Muhammad and the Jews after the Battle of Khaybar, an oasis near Medina. Khaybar was the first territory attacked and conquered by Muslims. When the Jews of Khaybar surrendered to Muhammad after a siege, Muhammad allowed them to remain in Khaybar in return for handing over to the Muslims one half their annual produce.\n\nAfter Mecca was brought under Islamic rule, deputations from tribes across Arabia came to make terms with Muhammad and the Muslims. The Constitution of Medina, a formal agreement between Muhammad and all the significant tribes and families of Medina (including Muslims, Jews and pagans), declared that non-Muslims in the Ummah had the following rights:\n\nThe Pact of Umar, traditionally believed to be between caliph Umar and the conquered Jerusalem Christians in the seventh century, was another source of regulations pertaining to dhimmis. However, Western orientalists doubt the authenticity of the pact, arguing it is usually the victors and not the vanquished who impose rather than propose, the terms of peace, and that it is highly unlikely that the people who spoke no Arabic and knew nothing of Islam could draft such a document. Academic historians believe the Pact of Umar in the form it is known today was a product of later jurists who attributed it to Umar in order to lend greater authority to their own opinions. The similarities between the Pact of Umar and the Theodosian and Justinian Codes of the Eastern Roman Empire suggest that perhaps much of the Pact of Umar was borrowed from these earlier codes by later Islamic jurists. At least some of the clauses of the pact mirror the measures first introduced by the Umayyad caliph Umar II or by the early Abbasid caliphs.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, local associations known as \"futuwwa\" clubs developed across the Islamic lands. There were usually several futuwwah in each town. These clubs catered to varying interests, primarily sports, and might involve distinctive manners of dress and custom. They were known for their hospitality, idealism and loyalty to the group. They often had a militaristic aspect, purportedly for the mutual protection of the membership. These clubs commonly crossed social strata, including among their membership local notables, dhimmi and slaves – to the exclusion of those associated with the local ruler, or amir.\n\nMuslims and Jews were sometimes partners in trade, with the Muslim taking days off on Fridays and Jews taking off on Saturdays.\n\nAndrew Wheatcroft describes how some social customs such as different conceptions of dirt and cleanliness made it difficult for the religious communities to live close to each other, either under Muslim or under Christian rule.\n\nThe dhimma and the jizya poll tax are no longer imposed in Muslim majority countries. In the 21st century, jizya is widely regarded as being at odds with contemporary secular conceptions of citizen's civil rights and equality before the law, although there have been occasional reports of religious minorities in conflict zones and areas subject to political instability being forced to pay jizya.\n\nIn 2009 it was claimed that a group of militants that referred to themselves as the Taliban imposed the \"jizya\" on Pakistan's minority Sikh community after occupying some of their homes and kidnapping a Sikh leader.\n\nAs late as 2013, in Egypt \"jizya\" was reportedly being imposed by the Muslim Brotherhood on 15,000 Christian Copts of Dalga village.\n\nIn February 2014, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) announced that it intended to extract jizya from Christians in the city of Raqqa, Syria, which it controls. Christians who refused to accept the dhimma contract and pay the tax would have to either convert to Islam or die. Wealthy Christians would have to pay half an ounce of gold, the equivalent of USD 664 twice a year; middle-class Christians would have to pay half that amount and poorer ones would be charged one-fourth that amount. In June, the Institute for the Study of War reported that ISIL claims to have collected jizya and fay. On 18 July 2014 the ISIL ordered the Christians in Mosul to accept the dhimma contract and pay the Jizya or convert to Islam. If they refused to accept either of the options they would be killed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19389559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19389559", "title": "European Badminton Circuit", "text": "European Badminton Circuit\n\nThe European Badminton Circuit is a series of international badminton tournaments in Europe, sanctioned by Badminton World Federation (BWF). The circuit consists of BWF International Challenge, BWF International Series and BWF Future Series tournaments held in Europe. The circuit usually starts in September and ends in April.\n\nBWF International Challenge tournaments offers more than $20,000 prize money, while BWF International Series tournaments offers more than $8,000 prize money. BWF Future Series tournaments offers up to $8,000 of prize money. The distribution of prize mone differs on each tournament type. BWF International Challenge tournaments rewards prize money for semifinalist for singles and only both finalist for doubles. BWF International Series tournaments offers prize money for finalist for singles and the doubles champion. BWF Future Series tournaments only distribute prize money to champions of singles and doubles.\n\n"}
{"id": "14806766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14806766", "title": "European Travel Commission", "text": "European Travel Commission\n\nThe European Travel Commission (ETC) is an international organisation responsible for the promotion of Europe as a tourist destination. Its members are the national tourism organisations (NTOs) of thirty-three Members, including EU member states, as well as, Iceland, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, San Marino, Serbia, Switzerland and Turkey. The national tourism organizations of all sovereign states in Europe are eligible for full membership of the European Travel Commission. Regional cross-border organizations and tourism-related bodies may join as associate members. The European Travel Commission is neither part of the European Commission nor an institution of the European Union.\n\nETC was established in 1948 in Norway. Between World War I and World War II, Europe became aware of the importance of tourism.\n\nThe establishment of national tourism organizations rapidly led to the creation of the “International Union of Official Tourist Publicity Organizations”: its first mission was the launch of a joint publicity campaign named “Europe Calling”.\n\nThis union became the International Union of Official Travel Organisations (IUOTO), which is today known as the World Tourism Organization, WTO.\n\nIn its first General Assembly, the IUOTO adopted the principle of Regional Commissions: 19 European countries were represented and those countries decided to establish the first such Commission. Since its creation, ETC, has been a results-oriented organisation working closely with government agencies and all segments of the industry to achieve practical objectives. First priority was given to making governments aware of the importance of tourism in their national economies, which had been deeply disturbed by World War II. That is why ETC has always supported an international co-operation, a collective action and the building of a European solidarity.\n\nHenri Ingrand (France), the first chairman of the ETC had settled the basic principles for its operations. The second one, Arthur Haulot (Belgium) drafted in 1958, its official statutes in accordance with the Belgium law. When the Commission was transferred to Dublin in 1965 with Timothy O’Driscoll as chairman, these statutes remained the only “legal” constitution of the ETC. New statutes were drafted in 1987 when the headquarters were transferred to Paris under the chairmanship of Walter Leu (Switzerland). In 1996, when the ETC moved to Brussels a new version was adopted to the Belgian legislation under the chairman Walter Leu (Switzerland). Constitution was modified and adopted at the General Meeting n°66 following the 2002 law.\n\nIn 1948, the original membership of the European Travel Commission was 19 countries. At that time Eastern European countries, members of IUOTO were invited to participate. None of these countries accepted, apparently due to political reasons. Germany, Yugoslavia, Malta and Cyprus joined the Commission a few years later.\n\nETC sees itself as a virtual organisation marketing Europe as a tourist destination in global markets, primarily by means of the internet. The three principal focuses of the Commission's work are electronic marketing, market intelligence and operational excellence. ETC seeks to provide added value to members by encouraging exchange of information and management expertise and promoting awareness about the role played by national tourism organisations.\n\nThe members elect a President, three Vice-Presidents, a Board of Directors, a Chairman of the Market Intelligence Group and a Chairman of the e-Marketing Network for revolving two years terms.\n\nETC is entirely financed by Members’ contributions, calculated according to a set of agreed criteria. Additional financial support for specific campaigns is raised overseas. Long-standing local industry support for ETC’s activities is proof of its credibility in the field.\n\nETC is registered in Belgium as an 'association internationale sans but lucratif' (or aisbl) - a non-profit making international association.\n\nThe representatives of the overseas offices of the European national tourism organisations operating in the various long-haul markets join together to form an ETC Operations Group and elect a Chairman. They decide on a programme of joint activities for the promotion of Europe for the year ahead, propose a budget, and seek local industry support.\n\nThis programme is submitted for approval to ETC’s Members in Europe, who meet twice a year (in Spring and Autumn) for a General Meeting.\n\nETC currently promotes and markets “Destination Europe” around the world through its operations groups in the United States, Canada, Asia (China) and Latin America (Brazil). ETC also plans to extend its activities to other emerging markets such as India and Russia.\n\nVital to ETC activities are its Market Intelligence Group and e-Marketing Network. The Market Intelligence Group commissions and produces market intelligence studies, handbooks on methodologies and best practice, and facilitates the exchange of European tourism statistics on “TourMIS”.\n\nThe e-Marketing Network provides information and expertise about the use of digital media by national tourism organisations, produces the “ETC Digital”, and organises an e-Business Academy once a year. The work of all operations groups is carried out by experts from member NTOs.\n\nVisiteurope.com is the official website of the European Travel Commission (ETC). ETC markets Europe as tourist destination on behalf of its 33 member countries. Under a pair of soaring wings, a symbol of travel and discovery deeply rooted in Europe's myths and history, visiteurope.com brings the excitement of a European vacation to potential guests around the world with localised versions in a number of major languages. The content of visiteurope.com is brought jointly by ETC and the national tourism organisations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7353215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7353215", "title": "Family (musical instruments)", "text": "Family (musical instruments)\n\nA family of musical instruments is a grouping of several different but related sizes or types of instruments. Some schemes of musical instrument classification, such as the Hornbostel-Sachs system, are based on a hierarchy of instrument families and families of families.\n\nSome commonly recognized families are:\n\nFamily relationships are not always clear-cut. For example, some authorities regard families as encompassing only instruments of different pitch range that have similar construction and tone quality. They therefore, for example, do not regard the cor anglais as a member of the oboe family, because its narrow bore and piriform bell give it a distinctly different tone quality from the oboe.\n"}
{"id": "57482100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57482100", "title": "Fictional encyclopaedism", "text": "Fictional encyclopaedism\n\nFictional encyclopaedism is a term used in literary studies and is not to be confused with fictional encyclopedias such as the Encyclopedia Galactica, Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius, and The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. \n\nFictional encyclopaedism is a style of fiction writing; a literary technique. James Joyce's Finnegans Wake and Herman Melville's Moby-Dick are examples of fictional encyclopaedism due to their didactic tone and reach for infinite inclusiveness and encyclopedic range of topics with essay-like text.\n\nPeter Wilkins stresses the conveyance of vast amount of information and the attempt at nearly exhaustive coverage of subject matter.\n"}
{"id": "30121772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30121772", "title": "Forum on Education Abroad", "text": "Forum on Education Abroad\n\nThe Forum on Education Abroad is a 501(c)(3) non-profit association recognized by the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission as the Standards Development Organization for the field of education abroad. It is located on the campus of Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. Founded in 2001, the Forum now boasts nearly 650 institutional members that collectively represent 90% of U.S. students that study abroad. Members are primarily U.S. colleges and universities, program provider organizations, overseas host institutions and programs and affiliates that provide services to the field.\n\nStated goals include establishing Standards of Good Practice, conducting research to assess outcomes of education abroad and collect useful data, promoting excellence in curriculum design and advocating for education abroad at all levels. The Forum President/CEO is Brian Whalen.\n\nThe Forum was first conceived in San Diego in May 2000 by a group of education abroad professionals who felt the field would require a stand-alone organization. By January 2001, an organizational statement and goals for the new organization were defined. A subsequent meeting a month later in Tucson resulted in the creation of a mission statement with five goal areas, the development of criteria for voting membership, and the establishment of subcommittees to produce a Communications Plan, Business Plan, Incorporation Plan, and Member Services/Tasks Plan. In July 2001, the decision was made to incorporate as the Forum on Education Abroad, and over the course of the next year, a Board of Advisors was created and the search for an Executive Director was launched. The Forum co-sponsored the University of Minnesota's Curriculum Integration Conference and agreed to partner with \"\", and adopt it as the official journal of the Forum.\n\nThe first annual meeting of the Forum was held in May 2002 with over 150 members in attendance, who approved an Advisory Council (now called the Forum Council). In November 2004, the Forum held its first annual conference in conjunction with the Council on International Educational Exchange annual conference, in Santa Fe, New Mexico with 165 participants in attendance. In 2005 the Forum received recognition from the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission to serve as the Standards Development Organization (SDO) for the field of education abroad.\n\nThe Forum's Bylaws were revised on May 25, 2006, and on July 1, 2006, the Forum moved its operations to Dickinson College in Pennsylvania. Brian Whalen, who had been serving as chair of the Forum Council, became president and CEO while continuing his duties as associate provost and executive director of global education at Dickinson College. The Forum's third annual conference, \"Standards in a Diverse World: The Future of Education Abroad\" was convened in Austin, Texas in March 2007. This was the Forum's first stand-alone conference, and it attracted 400 attendees. Presentations and sessions focused on the results of the Forum's Standards Pilot Project.\n\nThe Forum Board of Directors formally adopted the Standards of Good Practice for Education Abroad (2007) on July 14, 2007. Also in 2007, the Quality Improvement Program (QUIP) was launched as a voluntary process for Forum member institutions to be recognized for assessing how well their programs meet the Standards of Good Practice.\n\nIn 2013 the Forum membership has grown to include more than 650 member institutions composed of 75% U.S. colleges and universities; 15% provider organizations; and 10% universities located outside of the United States. Together Forum members represent over 90% of the U.S. students who study abroad.\n\nStudy abroad received an unprecedented amount of legal and media attention after an August 2007 article published in \"The New York Times\" highlighted the often opaque nature of providers of study abroad form relationships with U.S. universities. The article prompted the office of New York Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo to launch an investigation, issuing subpoenas to a dozen study abroad study abroad organizations and at least 15 colleges and universities. The Code of Ethics that the forum developed as a response sought to offer colleges, overseas-study providers, and foreign host institutions a \"compass\" to guide their management of study abroad.\n\nAs the only organization recognized as the SDO for education abroad, the Forum as an organization is responsible for determining Standards of Good Practice for the field and providing resources, services and programs to educate members, as well as the public at large. The Standards include:\n\n\nThe Standards were created as a reaction to what was largely an unsupervised and unregulated field involving a variety of players with differing motives, backgrounds and approaches. Additionally, here was also a push to address growing risk and liability concerns given the fact that while education abroad enrollment numbers continued to climb throughout the 1990s and 2000s, many U.S. colleges and universities were struggling with limited resources.\n\nPrior to the Standards' development, existing quality control mechanisms in education abroad were few and those in place were mainly used on an ad hoc basis. Existing mechanisms included regional and disciplinary accreditation, in-country accreditation and reviews (APUNE), institutional guidelines and practices, internal or outside reviewers, student evaluations, faculty and department reviews, advisory boards, approved program lists as some institutions.\n\nThe first edition of the Standards were released in 2004, and the second edition was put out the next year. In January 2006, the Forum began testing the Standards, based on the 2005 second edition, in a Pilot Project with a group of volunteer institutional participants – domestic and overseas providers, domestic and overseas universities and colleges, community colleges and consortia. The results of this landmark Project were presented and discussed at the Forum annual Conference in Austin, Texas, Texas, March 1–3, 2007. Feedback collected during the Pilot Project resulted in a third edition, released in March 2008. In response to the increasing number of short-term education abroad programs and the Forum's membership call for guidance, the Standards Committee drafted Standards of Good Practice for Short Term Education Abroad Programs that was released in 2009.\n\nInstitutional members are eligible to participate in the Forum's Quality Improvement Program (QUIP) as part of its strategic goal of developing and implementing standards designed to improve quality. QUIP consists of a guided self-study and peer review process, resulting in a comprehensive report and recommendations in the areas of program design, evaluation and assessment, marketing and promotion, student advising, and resources and operations. IES Abroad was the first third party provider to successfully complete this category of review and receive the QUIP 2A designation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11281", "title": "Frontline (Australian TV series)", "text": "Frontline (Australian TV series)\n\nFrontline is an Australian comedy television series which satirised Australian television current affairs programmes and reporting. It ran for three series of 13 half-hour episodes and was broadcast on ABC TV in 1994, 1995, and 1997.\n\nThe series was written, directed and produced by Jane Kennedy, Santo Cilauro, Rob Sitch and Tom Gleisner. They created and performed in the television shows \"The D-Generation\" and \"The Late Show\" before creating \"Frontline\" (as well as \"Funky Squad\" between seasons 1 and 2 of Frontline). After \"Frontline\" they moved into feature films, making several popular Australian movies including \"The Castle\" and \"The Dish\", and hosted \"The Panel\" for several years, before moving on to \"Thank God You're Here\" and later \"Have You Been Paying Attention?\".\n\nThe series was partly inspired by a \"60 Minutes\" special \"Has the media gone too far?\". It bears some similarity to the UK series \"Drop the Dead Donkey\".\n\nThe series follows the fortunes of a fictional current affairs show, \"Frontline\". In the show, \"Frontline\" competes directly with Nine's \"A Current Affair\" and Seven's \"Real Life\", which changed its name to \"Today Tonight\" from 1995 onwards.\n\nThe \"Frontline\" office showcases and satirises the machinations of the ruthless producers, the self-obsessed airhead host, and the ambitious, cynical reporters, all of whom resort to any sort of underhanded trick to get ratings and maintain their status – including the use of hidden cameras, foot-in-the-door, bullying interview techniques, and chequebook journalism. They ingratiate themselves with the all-powerful network bosses, while the real work is in fact done by their long-suffering production staff.\n\nThe station itself also runs other television shows referenced by \"Frontline\" staff, such as 6 o'clock news program, a 3-hour news review show \"Sunday Forum\", a sketch show \"The Komedy Bunch\", a game show \"Jackpot\", a teen soap opera \"Sunshine Cove\" which later changed to \"Rainbow Island\", also lesser mentioned shows such as the football show \"Ball-to-Ball\", \"Late-Night OZ\", \"Cartoon Crazies\", and \"Vacation\".\n\nThe characters and situations were often thinly-disguised parodies of recent real events and real people, giving the show's comedy a black edge. Episodes such as \"The Siege\" were replays of controversial events which had occurred a few months prior, told as though \"Frontline\" had covered the story.\n\nThe dim witted, egotistical host Mike Moore was a parody of current television hosts and journalists. Sitch has claimed that none of the characters were directly based on a single person, and indeed the character of Moore was a combination of well-known characteristics of several high-profile television figures, including \"A Current Affair\" host Ray Martin, Martin's predecessor Mike Willesee, and \"Real Life\" host Stan Grant.\n\nThe ABC's media review show \"Media Watch\" featured in the show. Much of the real life journalistic misconduct reported on \"Media Watch\" later appeared on \"Frontline\" in fictionalised form. One example of this was when \"Media Watch\" reported that Dave \"Sluggo\" Richardson had made a highly misleading report on Christopher Skase for \"Today Tonight\". Richardson was suspended from duty for a month, and in the \"One Rule for One\" episode of \"Frontline\", fictional reporter Martin di Stasio is suspended for a month for doing exactly the same thing.\n\nAlso, multiple episodes of \"Frontline\" featured \"Media Watch\" segments criticising the show.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Frontline\" frequently featured celebrity cameos, unusually including major Australian politicians appearing as themselves, often but not always as interviewees. The most memorable appearance is that of Pauline Hanson in \"The Shadow We Cast\" (series 3), in which she turns her famous \"please explain?\" phrase on Mike. Noel Pearson appears as an interviewee later in the same episode. Other appearances include: John Hewson in \"The Soufflé Rises\" (series 1); Pat Cash in \"The Desert Angel\"; Cheryl Kernot in \"We Ain't Got Dames\" (series 1); Ben Elton, Bert Newton, Rosemary Margan, Amanda Keller and Anne Fulwood in \"This Night of Nights\" (series 1); Glenn Ridge in \"Add Sex and Stir\" and \"Office Mole\" (series 2); Glenn Robbins and Molly Meldrum in \"Add Sex and Stir\"; George Negus in \"Add Sex and Stir\" and \"Dick on the Line\" (series 3); and Ian Baker-Finch in \"A Hole in the Heart\". Harry Shearer appeared in the series 2 episode \"Changing the Face of Current Affairs\", where he played the character of Larry Hadges. Merv Hughes also starred in the series 2 episode \"Workin' Class Man\".\n\nOther guest stars appeared in mock-ups of their own shows: Mike Moore appeared on fictitious episodes of \"Burke's Backyard\" with Don Burke, Rex Hunt's fishing show, and \"The AFL Footy Show\" with Sam Newman. Stuart Littlemore, who at the time was hosting the media commentary show \"Media Watch\", appeared in several fictitious episodes as a critic of \"Frontline\".\n\n\"Frontline\" broke new ground for Australian situation comedy, by adopting some innovative production strategies. Its rapid production schedule was inspired by UK series \"Drop The Dead Donkey\", where each episode was written and taped in a single week and scripts were closely based on the real news stories of the preceding seven days.\n\nThe \"Frontline\" scripts were likewise written and the series filmed with a short period, often within a single week. It was a fully collaborative effort, with Cilauro, Kennedy, Gleisner and Sitch all sharing writing and directing duties, and the cast all contributing ideas during all stages of production. So sometimes when the show appeared on then-current events, it was a coincidence, as episodes were delayed by several months. In other cases there was direct commentary on real events, albeit not extremely recent ones.\n\nTo create a heightened illusion of grainy documentary realism, footage was shot under fluorescent lights in an actual office building set, and taped on hand-held Hi-8 video cameras usually operated by Gleisner and Cilauro. The footage was then transferred onto film and finally transferred back to videotape (see: Kinescope). Footage that was portrayed as being part of the Frontline broadcast (i.e. Studio or field reports) was shot at broadcast quality, to increase the \"realism\" of the satire and complement the behind the scenes footage.\n\nIn 1997, Channel Seven bought the rights to the series, however they only aired a handful of episodes. The show was perceived by management as \"too close to the bone\" for a network significantly focused upon its prime time current affairs ratings battle with rival stations. The Comedy Channel has shown the series as late as 2005.\n\nIn America, \"Frontline\" was shown as either \"Behind the Frontline\" on cable or as \"Breaking News\" on PBS (which already has a news series entitled \"Frontline\").\n\nIn the UK, series 1 and 2 were shown by the Paramount Comedy Channel. Series 3, however, was never screened.\n\nThe series was extremely popular through its run, winning a Logie Award for Most Outstanding Achievement in Comedy in 1995, and a Logie for Alison Whyte as most outstanding actress in 1997. A \"Sydney Morning Herald\" industry poll rated it No. 2 in the 25 all-time greatest Australian TV shows.\n\nSix episodes from series one were a core text in the Year 12 English Advanced syllabus for the Higher School Certificate in New South Wales (2000–2008) for Module C: Representation and Text: Elective 1: Telling the Truth. The episodes are \"Playing The Ego Card\", \"Add Sex and Stir\", \"The Siege\", \"Smaller Fish To Fry\", \"We Ain't Got Dames\", and \"This Night of Nights\". The show has also been used as a text response for both Years 11 and 12 in the English units of the Victorian Certificate of Education. Episodes of \"Frontline\" have been analysed for the Media topic in the Year 10 English syllabus in New South Wales since at least 2001 and in Western Australia since at least 2009.\n\nSitch reprised the role of Mike Moore and Frontline during a short sketch on the Friday Night Crack Up in October 2014 as part of the ABC's \"MentalAs\" campaign to raise money and awareness for mental health issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "346643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346643", "title": "Graduate Record Examinations", "text": "Graduate Record Examinations\n\nThe Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) is a standardized test that is an admissions requirement for most graduate schools in the United States. The GRE is owned and administered by Educational Testing Service (ETS). The test was established in 1936 by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.\n\nAccording to ETS, the GRE aims to measure verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, analytical writing, and critical thinking skills that have been acquired over a long period of learning. The content of the GRE consists of certain specific algebra, geometry, arithmetic, and vocabulary. The GRE General Test is offered as a computer-based exam administered at Prometric testing centers. In the graduate school admissions process, the level of emphasis that is placed upon GRE scores varies widely between schools and departments within schools. The importance of a GRE score can range from being a mere admission formality to an important selection factor.\n\nThe GRE was significantly overhauled in August 2011, resulting in an exam that is not adaptive on a question-by-question basis, but rather by section, so that the performance on the first verbal and math sections determine the difficulty of the second sections presented. Overall, the test retained the sections and many of the question types from its predecessor, but the scoring scale was changed to a 130 to 170 scale (from a 200 to 800 scale).\n\nThe cost to take the test is US$205, although ETS will reduce the fee under certain circumstances. They also promote financial aid to those GRE applicants who prove economic hardship. ETS does not release scores that are older than 5 years, although graduate program policies on the acceptance of scores older than 5 years will vary.\n\nThe Graduate Record Examinations was \"initiated in 1936 as a joint experiment in higher education by the graduate school deans of four eastern universities and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.\"\n\nThe first universities to experiment the test on their students were Harvard University, Yale University, Princeton University and Columbia University. The University of Wisconsin was the first public university to ask their students to take the test in 1938. It was first given to students at the University of Iowa in 1940, where it was analysed by psychologist Dewey Stuit. It was first taken by students at Texas Tech University in 1942. In 1943, it was taken by students at Michigan State University, where it was analyzed by Paul Dressel. It was taken by over 45,000 students applying to 500 colleges in 1948.\n\n\"Until the Educational Testing Service was established in January, 1948, the Graduate Record Examination remained a project of the Carnegie Foundation.\"\n\nThe computer-based GRE General Test consists of six sections. The first section is always the analytical writing section involving separately timed issue and argument tasks. The next five sections consist of two verbal reasoning sections, two quantitative reasoning sections, and either an experimental or research section. These five sections may occur in any order. The experimental section does not count towards the final score but is not distinguished from the scored sections. Unlike the computer adaptive test before August 2011, the GRE General Test is a multistage test, where the examinee's performance on earlier sections determines the difficulty of subsequent sections. This format allows the examined person to freely move back and forth between questions within each section, and the testing software allows the user to \"mark\" questions within each section for later review if time remains. The entire testing procedure lasts about 3 hours 45 minutes. One-minute breaks are offered after each section and a 10-minute break after the third section.\n\nThe paper-based GRE General Test also consists of six sections. The analytical writing is split up into two sections, one section for each issue and argument task. The next four sections consist of two verbal and two quantitative sections in varying order. There is no experimental section on the paper-based test. This version is only available in areas where the computer-based version is unavailable.\n\nThe computer-based verbal sections assess reading comprehension, critical reasoning, and vocabulary usage. The verbal test is scored on a scale of 130–170, in 1-point increments. (Before August 2011, the scale was 200–800, in 10-point increments.) In a typical examination, each verbal section consists of 20 questions to be completed in 30 minutes. Each verbal section consists of about 6 text completion, 4 sentence equivalence, and 10 critical reading questions. The changes in 2011 include a reduced emphasis on rote vocabulary knowledge and the elimination of antonyms and analogies. Text completion items have replaced sentence completions and new reading question types allowing for the selection of multiple answers were added.\n\nThe computer-based quantitative sections assess basic high school level mathematical knowledge and reasoning skills. The quantitative test is scored on a scale of 130–170, in 1-point increments (Before August 2011 the scale was 200–800, in 10-point increments). In a typical examination, each quantitative section consists of 20 questions to be completed in 35 minutes. Each quantitative section consists of about 8 quantitative comparisons, 9 problem solving items, and 3 data interpretation questions. The changes in 2011 include the addition of numeric entry items requiring the examinee to fill in the blank and multiple-choice items requiring the examinee to select multiple correct responses.\n\nThe analytical writing section consists of two different essays, an \"issue task\" and an \"argument task\". The writing section is graded on a scale of 0–6, in half-point increments. The essays are written on a computer using a word processing program specifically designed by ETS. The program allows only basic computer functions and does not contain a spell-checker or other advanced features. Each essay is scored by at least two readers on a six-point holist scale. If the two scores are within one point, the average of the scores is taken. If the two scores differ by more than a point, a third reader examines the response.\n\nThe test taker is given 30 minutes to write an essay about a selected topic. Issue topics are selected from a pool of questions, which the GRE Program has published in its entirety. Individuals preparing for the GRE may access the pool of tasks on the ETS website.\n\nThe test taker will be given an argument (i.e. a series of facts and considerations leading to a conclusion) and asked to write an essay that critiques the argument. Test takers are asked to consider the argument's logic and to make suggestions about how to improve the logic of the argument. Test takers are expected to address the logical flaws of the argument and not provide a personal opinion on the subject. The time allotted for this essay is 30 minutes. The Arguments are selected from a pool of topics, which the GRE Program has published in its entirety. Individuals preparing for the GRE may access the pool of tasks on the ETS website.\n\nThe experimental section, which can be either verbal or quantitative, contains new questions ETS is considering for future use. Although the experimental section does not count towards the test-taker's score, it is unidentified and appears identical to the scored sections. Because test takers have no definite way of knowing which section is experimental, it is typically advised that test takers try their best and be focused on every section. Sometimes an identified research section at the end of the test is given instead of the experimental section. There is no experimental section on the paper-based GRE.\n\nAn examinee can miss one or more questions on a multiple-choice section and still receive a perfect score of 170. Likewise, even if no question is answered correctly, 130 is the lowest possible score.\n\nThe percentiles for the current General test and the concordance with the prior format are as follows. Means and standard deviations for the measures on the new score scale are not yet available:\n\n\"Field-wise distribution\" of test takers is \"limited to those who earned their college degrees up to two years before the test date.\" ETS provides no score data for \"non-traditional\" students who have been out of school more than two years, although its own report \"RR-99-16\" indicated that 22% of all test takers in 1996 were over the age of 30.\n\nMany graduate schools in the United States require GRE results as part of the admissions process. The GRE is a standardized test intended to measure all graduates' abilities in tasks of general academic nature (regardless of their fields of specialization) and the extent to which undergraduate education has developed their verbal skills, quantitative skills, and abstract thinking.\n\nIn addition to GRE scores, admission to graduate schools depends on several other factors, such as GPA, letters of recommendation, and statements of purpose. Furthermore, unlike other standardized admissions tests (such as the SAT, LSAT, and MCAT), the use and weight of GRE scores vary considerably not only from school to school, but also from department to department and program to program. For instance, most business schools and economics programs require very high GRE or GMAT scores for entry, while engineering programs are known to allow more score variation. Liberal arts programs may only consider the applicant's verbal score, while mathematics and science programs may only consider quantitative ability. Some schools use the GRE in admissions decisions, but not in funding decisions; others use it for selection of scholarship and fellowship candidates, but not for admissions. In some cases, the GRE may be a general requirement for graduate admissions imposed by the university, while particular departments may not consider the scores at all. Graduate schools will typically provide the average scores of previously admitted students and information about how the GRE is considered in admissions and funding decisions. In some cases programs have hard cut off requirements for the GRE; for example, the Yale Economics PhD program requires a minimum quantitative score of 160 to apply. The best way to ascertain how a particular school or program evaluates a GRE score in the admissions process is to contact the person in charge of graduate admissions for the specific program in question.\n\nIn February 2016, the University of Arizona James E. Rogers College of Law became the first law school to accept either the GRE or the Law School Admissions Test (LSAT) from all applicants. The college made the decision after conducting a study showing that the GRE is a valid and reliable predictor of students' first-term law school grades.\n\nIn the spring of 2017, Harvard Law School announced it was joining University of Arizona Law in accepting the GRE in addition to the LSAT from applicants to its three-year J.D. program.\n\nIn addition to the General Test, there are also six GRE Subject Tests testing knowledge in the specific areas of Biology; Chemistry; Literature in English; Mathematics; Physics; and Psychology. The length of each exam is 170 minutes.\n\nIn the past, subject tests were also offered in the areas of Computer Science, Economics, Revised Education, Engineering, Geology, History, Music, Political Science, Sociology, and Biochemistry, Cell and Molecular Biology. In April 1998, the Revised Education and Political Science exams were discontinued. In April 2000, the History and Sociology exams were discontinued; with Economics, Engineering, Music, and Geology being discontinued in April 2001. The Computer Science exam was discontinued after April 2013. Biochemistry, Cell and Molecular Biology was discontinued in December 2016.\n\nThe GMAT (Graduate Management Admission Test) is a computer-adaptive standardized test in mathematics and the English language for measuring aptitude to succeed academically in graduate business studies.\nBusiness schools commonly use the test as one of many selection criteria for admission into an MBA program. Starting in 2009, many business schools began accepting the GRE in lieu of a GMAT score. Policies varied widely for several years. However, as of the 2014–2015 admissions season, most business schools accept both tests equally. Either a GMAT score, or a GRE score, can be submitted for an application to an MBA program. Business schools also accept either score for their other (non-MBA) Master's and PhD programs.\n\nThe primary issue on which business school test acceptance policies vary is in how old a GRE or GMAT score can be before it is no longer accepted. The standard is that scores cannot be more than 5 years old (e.g., Wharton, MIT Sloan, Columbia Business School).\n\nA variety of resources are available for those wishing to prepare for the GRE. ETS provides preparation software called PowerPrep, which contains two practice tests of retired questions, as well as further practice questions and review material. Since the software replicates both the test format and the questions used, it can be useful to predict the actual GRE scores. ETS does not license their past questions to any other company, making them the only source for official retired material. ETS used to publish the \"BIG BOOK\" which contained a number of actual GRE questions; however, this publishing was abandoned. Several companies provide courses, books, and other unofficial preparation materials.\n\nSome students taking the GRE use a test preparation company. Students who do not use these courses often rely on material from university text books, GRE preparation books, sample tests, and free web resources.\n\nWhile the general and subject tests are held at many undergraduate institutions, the computer-based general test is only held at test centers with appropriate technological accommodations. In the United States, students in major cities or from large universities will usually find a nearby test center, while those in more isolated areas may have to travel a few hours to an urban or university location. Many industrialized countries also have test centers, but at times test-takers must cross country borders.\n\nAn analysis of the GRE's validity in predicting graduate school success found a correlation of .30 to .45 between the GRE and both first year and overall graduate GPA. The correlation between GRE score and graduate school completion rates ranged from .11 (for the now defunct analytical section) to .39 (for the GRE subject test). Correlations with faculty ratings ranged from .35 to .50.\n\nCritics have claimed that the computer-adaptive methodology may discourage some test takers since the question difficulty changes with performance. For example, if the test-taker is presented with remarkably easy questions halfway into the exam, they may infer that they are not performing well, which will influence their abilities as the exam continues, even though question difficulty is subjective. By contrast, standard testing methods may discourage students by giving them more difficult items earlier on.\n\nCritics have also stated that the computer-adaptive method of placing more weight on the first several questions is biased against test takers who typically perform poorly at the beginning of a test due to stress or confusion before becoming more comfortable as the exam continues. On the other hand, standard fixed-form tests could equally be said to be \"biased\" against students with less testing stamina since they would need to be approximately twice the length of an equivalent computer adaptive test to obtain a similar level of precision.\n\nThe GRE has also been subjected to the same racial bias criticisms that have been lodged against other admissions tests. In 1998, \"The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education\" noted that the mean score for black test-takers in 1996 was 389 on the verbal section, 409 on the quantitative section, and 423 on the analytic, while white test-takers averaged 496, 538, and 564, respectively. The National Association of Test Directors Symposia in 2004 stated a belief that simple mean score differences may not constitute evidence of bias unless the populations are known to be equal in ability. A more effective, accepted, and empirical approach is the analysis of differential test functioning, which examines the differences in item response theory curves for subgroups; the best approach for this is the DFIT framework.\n\nThe GREs are criticized for not being a true measure of whether a student will be successful in graduate school. Robert Sternberg (now of Oklahoma State University–Stillwater; working at Yale University at the time of the study), a long-time critic of modern intelligence testing in general, found the GRE general test was weakly predictive of success in graduate studies in psychology. The strongest relationship was found for the now-defunct analytical portion of the exam.\n\nThe ETS published a report (\"What is the Value of the GRE?\") that points out the predictive value of the GRE on a student's index of success at the graduate level. The problem with earlier studies is the statistical phenomena of restriction of range. A correlation coefficient is sensitive to the range sampled for the test. Specifically, if only students accepted to graduate programs are studied (in Sternberg & Williams and other research), the relationship is occluded. Validity coefficients range from .30 to .45 between the GRE and both first year and overall graduate GPA in ETS' study.\n\nKaplan and Saccuzzo state that the criterion that the GRE best predicts is first-year grades in graduate school. However, this correlation is only in the high tens to low twenties. \"If the test correlates with a criterion at the .4 level, then it accounts for 16% of the variability in that criterion, with the other 84% resulting from unknown factors and errors\" (p. 303). Graduate schools may be placing too much importance on standardized tests rather than on factors that more fully account for graduate school success, such as prior research experience, GPAs, or work experience. While graduate schools do consider these areas, many times schools will not consider applicants that score below a current score of roughly 314 (1301 prior score). Kaplan and Saccuzzo also state that \"the GRE predict[s] neither clinical skill nor even the ability to solve real-world problems\" (p. 303).\n\nIn May 1994, Kaplan, Inc warned ETS, in hearings before a New York legislative committee, that the small question pool available to the computer-adaptive test made it vulnerable to cheating. ETS assured investigators that it was using multiple sets of questions and that the test was secure. This was later discovered to be incorrect.\n\nIn December 1994, prompted by student reports of recycled questions, then Director of GRE Programs for Kaplan, Inc and current CEO of Knewton, Jose Ferreira led a team of 22 staff members deployed to 9 U.S. cities to take the exam. Kaplan, Inc then presented ETS with 150 questions, representing 70–80% of the GRE. According to early news releases, ETS appeared grateful to Stanley H. Kaplan, Inc for identifying the security problem. However, on December 31, ETS sued Kaplan, Inc for violation of a federal electronic communications privacy act, copyright laws, breach of contract, fraud, and a confidentiality agreement signed by test-takers on test day. On January 2, 1995, an agreement was reached out of court.\n\nAdditionally, in 1994, the scoring algorithm for the computer-adaptive form of the GRE was discovered to be insecure. ETS acknowledged that Kaplan, Inc employees, led by Jose Ferreira, reverse-engineered key features of the GRE scoring algorithms. The researchers found that a test taker's performance on the first few questions of the exam had a disproportionate effect on the test taker's final score. To preserve the integrity of scores, ETS revised its scoring and uses a more sophisticated scoring algorithm.\n\nIn 2006, ETS announced plans to enact significant changes in the format of the GRE. Planned changes for the revised GRE included a longer testing time, a departure from computer-adaptive testing, a new grading scale, and an enhanced focus on reasoning skills and critical thinking for both the quantitative and qualitative sections.\n\nOn April 2, 2007, ETS announced the decision to cancel plans for revising the GRE. The announcement cited concerns over the ability to provide clear and equal access to the new test after the planned changes as an explanation for the cancellation. The ETS stated, however, that they do plan \"to implement many of the planned test content improvements in the future\", although specific details regarding those changes were not initially announced.\n\nChanges to the GRE took effect on November 1, 2007, as ETS started to include new types of questions in the exam. The changes mostly centered on \"fill in the blank\" type answers for the mathematics section that requires the test-taker to fill in the blank directly, without being able to choose from a multiple choice list of answers. ETS announced plans to introduce two of these new types of questions in each quantitative section, while the majority of questions would be presented in the regular format.\n\nSince January 2008, the Reading Comprehension within the verbal sections has been reformatted, passages' \"line numbers will be replaced with highlighting when necessary in order to focus the test taker on specific information in the passage\" to \"help students more easily find the pertinent information in reading passages.\"\n\nIn December 2009, ETS announced plans to move forward with significant revisions to the GRE in 2011. Changes include a new 130–170 scoring scale, the elimination of certain question types such as antonyms and analogies, the addition of an online calculator, and the elimination of the CAT format of question-by-question adjustment, in favor of a section by section adjustment. The Revised GRE General test replaced General GRE test on August 1, 2011. The revised GRE is said to be better by design and gives better test taking experience. The new types of questions in the revised pattern are supposed to test the skills needed in graduate and business schools programs. From July 2012 onwards GRE announced an option for users to customize their scores called ScoreSelect.\n\nThe earliest versions of the GRE tested only for verbal and quantitative ability. For a number of years before October 2002, the GRE had a separate Analytical Ability section which tested candidates on logical and analytical reasoning abilities. This section was replaced by the Analytical Writing Assessment.\n\n\nGRE Subject Tests:\n\n\nOther tests:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "673294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=673294", "title": "Halo effect", "text": "Halo effect\n\nThe halo effect is a type of immediate judgement discrepancy, or cognitive bias, where a person making an initial assessment of another person, place, or thing will assume ambiguous information based upon concrete information. A simplified example of the halo effect is when an individual noticing that the person in the photograph is attractive, well groomed, and properly attired, assumes, using a mental heuristic, that the person in the photograph is a good person based upon the rules of that individual's social concept. This constant error in judgment is reflective of the individual's preferences, prejudices, ideology, aspirations, and social perception. The halo effect is an evaluation by an individual and can affect the perception of a decision, action, idea, business, person, group, entity, or other whenever concrete data is generalized or influences ambiguous information.\n\nThe halo effect can also be explained as the behavior (usually unconscious) of using evaluations based on things unrelated, to make judgments about something or someone. The halo effect specifically refers to when this behavior has a positive correlation, such as viewing someone who is attractive as likely to be successful and popular. When this judgement has a negative connotation, such as someone unattractive being more readily blamed for a crime than someone attractive, it is referred to as the horn effect.\n\nThe halo effect was named by psychologist Edward Thorndike in reference to a person being perceived as having a halo. He gave the phenomenon its name in his 1920 article \"A Constant Error in Psychological Ratings\". In \"Constant Error\", Thorndike set out to replicate the study in hopes of pinning down the bias that he thought was present in these ratings. Subsequent researchers have studied it in relation to attractiveness and its bearing on the judicial and educational systems. Thorndike originally coined the term referring only to people; however, its use has been greatly expanded especially in the area of brand marketing.\n\nIn \"A Constant Error in Psychological Ratings\", Thorndike asked two commanding officers to evaluate their soldiers in terms of physical qualities (neatness, voice, physique, bearing, and energy), intellect, leadership skills, and personal qualities (including dependability, loyalty, responsibility, selflessness, and cooperation). His goal was to see how the ratings of one characteristic affected other characteristics.\n\nThorndike's study showed how there was too great a correlation in the commanding officers' responses. In his review he stated: \"The correlations are too high and too even. For example, for the three raters next studied[,] the average correlation for physique with intelligence is .31; for physique with leadership, .39; and for physique with character, .28\". The ratings of one of the special qualities of an officer often started a trend in the rating results. If an officer had a particular \"negative\" attribute given off to the commanding officer, it would correlate in the rest of that soldier's results.\n\nThe term \"halo\" is used in analogy with the religious concept: a glowing circle crowning the heads of saints in countless medieval and Renaissance paintings, bathing the saint's face in heavenly light. The observer may be subject to overestimating the worth of the observed by the presence of a quality that adds light on the whole like a halo. In other words, observers tend to bend their judgement according to one patent characteristic of the person (the \"halo\"), generalizing towards a judgement of that person's character (e.g., in the literal hagiologic case, \"entirely good and worthy\").\n\nThe effect works in both positive and negative directions (and is hence sometimes called the horns and halo effect). If the observer likes one aspect of something, they will have a positive predisposition toward everything about it. If the observer dislikes one aspect of something, they will have a negative predisposition toward everything about it.\n\nA person's attractiveness has also been found to produce a halo effect. Attractiveness provides a valuable aspect of the halo effect to consider because of its multifaceted nature; attractiveness may be influenced by several specific traits. These perceptions of attractiveness may affect judgments tied to personality traits. Physical attributes contribute to perceptions of attractiveness (e.g., weight, hair, eye color). For example, someone who is perceived as attractive, due in part to physical traits, may be more likely to be perceived as kind or intelligent. The role of attractiveness in producing the halo effect has been illustrated through a number of studies. Recent research, for example, has revealed that attractiveness may affect perceptions tied to life success and personality. In this study, attractiveness was correlated with weight, indicating that attractiveness itself may be influenced by various specific traits. Included in the personality variables were trustworthiness and friendliness. People perceived as being more attractive were more likely to be perceived as trustworthy and friendly. What this suggests is that perceptions of attractiveness may influence a variety of other traits, which supports the concept of the halo effect.\n\n conducted a study on the relationship between attractiveness and the halo effect. Sixty students, thirty male and thirty female) from the University of Minnesota took part in the experiment. Each subject was given three different photos to examine: one of an attractive individual, one of an individual of average attractiveness, and one of an unattractive individual.\n\nThe participants judged the photos' subjects along 27 different personality traits (including altruism, conventionality, self-assertiveness, stability, emotionality, trustworthiness, extraversion, kindness, and sexual promiscuity). Participants were then asked to predict the overall happiness the photos' subjects would feel for the rest of their lives, including marital happiness (least likely to get divorced), parental happiness (most likely to be a good parent), social and professional happiness (most likely to experience life fulfillment), and overall happiness. Finally, participants were asked if the subjects would hold a job of high status, medium status, or low status.\n\nResults showed that most of the participants overwhelmingly believed more attractive subjects have more socially desirable personality traits than either averagely attractive or unattractive subjects. Participants also believed that attractive individuals would lead happier lives in general, have happier marriages, and have more career success than the others. Also, results showed that attractive people were believed to be more likely to hold secure, prestigious jobs compared to unattractive individuals. Participants however believed that attractive individuals would be worse parents than both average attractive and unattractive individuals.\n\nA study by demonstrated the Halo Effect, looking at judgments of intelligence and competence on academic tasks. Sixty male undergraduate students rated the quality of essays which included both well and poorly written samples. One third were presented with a photo of an attractive female as author, another third with that of an unattractive female as author, and the last third were shown neither. In average most of the participants gave significantly better writing evaluations for the more attractive author. On a scale of 1 to 9, the well-written essay by the attractive author received an average of 6.7 while the unattractive author received a 5.9 (with a 6.6 as a control). The gap was larger on the poor essay: the attractive author received an average of 5.2, the control a 4.7, and the unattractive a 2.7, suggesting readers are generally more willing to give physically attractive people the benefit of the doubt when performance is below standard than others.\n\nResearch conducted by Moore, Filippou, & Perrett (2011), sought residual cues to intelligence in female and male faces while attempting to control for the attractiveness halo effect. Over 300 photographs of Caucasian British college students were rated for perceived intelligence. The photographs that were scored lowest in low perceived intelligence were used to create a low-intelligence composite face and those photographs that were scored highest for high perceived intelligence were used to create a high-intelligence composite face. Both female and male, of high- and low- perceived intelligence were created resulting in four groups of composite faces. Participants for the study were recruited online; 164 female and 92 male heterosexual residents of the UK rated each of the composite faces for intelligence and attractiveness. Of the female composites, attractiveness seemed to be controlled as both the high- and low- perceived intelligence groups were rated as equally attractive. However, of the male face composites, the high-perceived intelligence group was rated as significantly more attractive than the low-perceived intelligence group, suggesting that either the authors could not adequately control for the attractiveness halo effect for the male composite photographs or that intelligence is an integral factor of attractiveness in high intelligent male faces. The second part of the study found that the composites in the high-perceived intelligence group were rated highest in the factors of friendly and funny as markers of intelligence in both the female and male group. While intelligence does not seem to be a factor that contributes to attractiveness in women, with regards to men, attractive faces are perceived to be more intelligent, friendly, and funny by women and men.\n\nA study by found that attractiveness and familiarity are strong predictors of decisions regarding who is put in a position of leadership. Judgments made following one-second exposures to side-by-side photos of two US congressional candidates were reasonably predictive of election outcomes. Attractiveness and familiarity were correlated with competence in this study. Candidates who appeared more attractive and familiar were also seen as more competent and were found more likely to be elected. Similar studies found that even when taking factual knowledge into account, candidates who were rated as more attractive were still perceived as more knowledgeable. These results suggest that the halo effect greatly impacts how individuals perceive political knowledge and it demonstrates the powerful influence of the halo effect in politics.\n\nStudy results showing the influence of the halo effect in the judicial context exist:\n\n\nA study by yielded much of the same results as are seen in other studies focusing on the halo effect—attractive individuals were rated more highly in qualities such as creativity, intelligence, and sensitivity than unattractive individuals. However, in addition to these results Kaplan found that some women were influenced by the halo effect on attractiveness only when presented with members of the opposite sex. When presented with an attractive member of the same sex, the effect was attenuated for some women. continue this line of research, going on to demonstrate that jealousy of an attractive individual has slight effect in evaluation of that person. Their work shows this to be more prevalent among females than males, with some females being less influenced by the halo effect. Later research by Moore, Filippou, & Perrett (2011) was able to control for attractiveness in composite photographs of females who were perceived to be of high or low intelligence, while showing that the attractiveness halo effect was seen in high intelligent male composite faces by heterosexual residents of the UK. Either the halo effect is negated by feelings of jealousy in women or the halo effect is lessened when women are looking at same sex individuals or the attractiveness halo effect can be controlled for in women it appears that there is a difference in affect produced by the attractiveness halo effect at least between binary genders.\n\n have reasoned that if the following four assumptions were true, beautiful people are indeed likely to be more intelligent and provided empirical evidence for these assumptions.\n\nThe reverse halo effect occurs when positive evaluations of an individual cause negative consequences. Dermer and Thiel (1975) had female undergraduates rate pictures of highly attractive, moderately attractive, and unattractive females and evaluate them on a number of dimensions. Their hypothesis that jealousy would moderate attractiveness ratings was partially supported. Unattractive raters did not rate attractive females as highly, and thought that they would be less competent parents and more likely to cheat. A follow up study with both men and women participants supported this, as well as showing that attractive women were expected to be conceited and have a higher socioeconomic status. Eagly et al. (1991) also commented on this phenomenon, showing that more attractive individuals of all sexes were expected to be higher in vanity and possibly egotistic. Applied instances of the reverse halo effect include negative evaluations of criminals who use their attractiveness to their advantage (Sigall & Ostrove, 1975) and rating a philosophical essay lower when written by a young female than an old male.\n\nThe horn effect occurs when people allow an undesirable trait to influence their evaluation of other traits. \"The Guardian\" wrote of the devil effect in relation to Hugo Chavez: \"Some leaders can become so demonized that it's impossible to assess their achievements and failures in a balanced way.\" When someone is seen in a negative light, anything they do that is negative is exemplified, while the positive things they do are not seen, or are doubted.\n\n found the halo effect is also present in the classroom. In this study, both regular and special education elementary school teachers watched videotapes of what they believed to be children in regular 4th-grade classrooms. In reality, the children were actors, depicting behaviors present in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), oppositional defiant disorder (ODD), or standard behavior. The teachers were asked to rate the frequency of hyperactive behaviors observed in the children. Teachers rated hyperactive behaviors accurately for children with ADHD; however, the ratings of hyperactivity were much higher for the children with ODD-like behaviors, showing a halo effect for children with ODD.\n\n\"In the classroom, teachers are subject to the halo effect rating error when evaluating their students. For example, a teacher who sees a well-behaved student might tend to assume this student is also bright, diligent, and engaged before that teacher has objectively evaluated the student's capacity in these areas. When these types of halo effects occur, they can affect students' approval ratings in certain areas of functioning and can even affect students' grades.\"\n\n\"In the work setting, the halo effect is most likely to show up in a supervisor's appraisal of a subordinate's job performance. In fact, the halo effect is probably the most common bias in performance appraisal. Think about what happens when a supervisor evaluates the performance of a subordinate. The supervisor may give prominence to a single characteristic of the employee, such as enthusiasm, and allow the entire evaluation to be colored by how he or she judges the employee on that one characteristic. Even though the employee may lack the requisite knowledge or ability to perform the job successfully, if the employee's work shows enthusiasm, the supervisor may very well give him or her a higher performance rating than is justified by knowledge or ability.\"\n\nThe term halo effect is used in marketing to explain customer bias toward certain products because of favorable experience with other products made by the same company.\n\nThe halo effect is also present in the field of brand marketing. One common halo effect is when the perceived positive features of a particular item extend to a broader brand. A notable example is the manner in which the popularity of Apple's iPod generated enthusiasm for the corporation's other products.\n\nA halo effect with regard to health, dubbed a \"health halo\", is used in food marketing to increase sales of a product; it can result in increased consumption of the product in the halo which may be unhealthy.\n\nThe term \"halo effect\" has also been applied to human rights organizations that have used their status to move away from their stated goals. Political scientist Gerald Steinberg has claimed that non-governmental organizations (NGOs) take advantage of the halo effect and are \"given the status of impartial moral watchdogs\" by governments and the news media.\n\nThe Ronald McDonald House, a widely known NGO, openly celebrates the positive outcomes it receives from the halo effect. The web page for the Ronald McDonald House in Durham, North Carolina, states that 95% of survey participants were aware of Ronald McDonald House Charities. This awareness is attributed to the halo effect, as employees, customers, and stakeholders are more likely to be involved in a charity that they recognize and trust, with a name and logo that are familiar.\n\nA brand's halo effect can protect its reputation in the event of a crisis. An event that is detrimental to a brand that is viewed favorably would not be as threatening or damaging to a brand that consumers view unfavorably.\n\nNon-psychology/business use of the term \"halo effect\" can refer to the monetary value of expenditures either in subsequent time periods.\n\nA published 2012 study included this additional usage as \"Lastly, there are halo effects; for instance, spend on TV was found to be influencing response in other channels.\"\n\nOften, a person's character is perceived in a more positive light after their death. An example of this is what took place after Michael Jackson died in 2009. Before Jackson's death, he was only a few years removed from accusations of sexual molestation of minors. The public deemed him a \"child molester\" and \"sex offender\". However, since his death discussion of sexual misconduct has subsided and public perception mainly focuses on his success and status as the King of Pop.\n\n argue: \"Since 1980, there have been a large number of studies dealing directly or indirectly with halo error in rating. Taken together, these studies suggest that all seven of the characteristics that have defined halo error for much of its history are problematic and that the assumptions that underlie some of them are demonstrably wrong.\" Their work claims that the assumption that the halo effect is always detrimental is incorrect, with some halo effects resulting in an increase in the accuracy of the rating, in their opinion. Additionally, they discuss the idea of \"true halo\"—the actual correlation between, for example, attractiveness and performance as an instructor—and \"illusory halo\" that refers to cognitive distortions, errors in observation and judgement, and the rating tendencies of the individual rater. They claim that any true differentiation between true and illusory halos is impossible in a real-world setting, because the different ratings are strongly influenced by the specific behaviors of the person observed by the raters.\n\nA study by states that one's mood can affect the degree of the halo effect's influence. When someone is in a favorable mood, the halo effect is more likely to be influential—this was demonstrated by study participants choosing between pictures of an elderly man with a beard and a young woman, and deciding which subject possessed more philosophical attributes. Additionally, when asked to list the happy times in their life, the halo effect was more evident in the perceptions of the participants. Forgas's study suggests that when one is gauging the extent of the halo effect in a situation, one must consider the emotional state of the person making the judgment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54057718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54057718", "title": "Hohenzollernstraße", "text": "Hohenzollernstraße\n\nHohenzollernstraße is a two kilometer long street in Munich's Schwabing district.\n\nIt starts at Leopoldstraße, then crosses the Kurfürstenplatz and Hohenzollernplatz and changes after the Winzererstraße in the west to the Schwerere-Reiter-Straße as its extension. Between Kurfürstenplatz and Leopoldstraße are smaller shops. Together with Leopoldstraße the shopping street forms the so-called \"Schwabinger T\".\n\nAccording to a study by the traffic data and SaaS provider INRIX of 2016, Hohenzollernstraße is the most heavily occupied road in Germany.\n\nUntil the incorporation of Schwabing to Munich in 1890, the Burgfrieden around Munich ran at the height of Hohenzollernstraße. In 1892 the street was renamed \"Hörmannstraße\" after the Hohenzollern nobility. In 1901, Wassily Kandinsky founded his art school \"Phalanx\" on Hohenzollernstraße 6a, where Gabriele Münter became a pupil. In the house number 104, Willibald Besta had his studio there until 1929. Hohenzollernstraße 21 was the location of the 1902 founded \"Lehr- und Versuchsatelier für angewandte und freikunst\", of Wilhelm von Debschitz and Hermann Obrist, which developed into Germany's largest private educational institution. Paul Klee taught there in 1908. In 1910 Emil Preetorius was the director of the school. In house number 1 lived the writer and painter Fanny zu Reventlow, who was known as \"Schwabinger Skandalgräfin\". Joachim Ringelnatz lived in the Gartenhaus of Hohenzollernstraße 31a /I from 1920 to 1930. In Hohenzollernstraße 110, Werner Heisenberg spent some fourteen years of his youth.\n\nIn 1910, Georg Kerschensteiner founded an experimental school in Hohenzollernstraße 14 which was built in 1905/1906. In 1938, the building was transformed into a hospital, which from 1945 to 1960 served as the \"Chirurgisches Krankenhaus München-Nord\". In 1961, a high school took its place, where for example, Michael Lerchenberg went to school. Since 1941, between Zentnerstraße and Schleissheimer Straße, on Hohenzollernstraße is the neo-classical styled Nordbad, which includes a grandstand for 1,400 spectators. From 1959 to 2009, Theater44 was located at Hohenzollernstraße 44.\n\nFrom the Kurfürstenplatz to the west, the tram lines 12 and 27 run over Hohenzollernstraße. Until August 1900, a horse-drawn carriage had already been running along the line from Promenadeplatz to Hohenzollernstraße. Later, tram lines ran from Nikolaiplatz along the entire length of Hohenzollernstraße to Barerstraße, Schwerere-Reiter-Straße and Schleissheimer Straße. In the 1970s, the section between Nikolaiplatz and Kurfürstenplatz was no longer used.\n\n33 historic architectural monuments lie with Hohenzollernstraße.\n\n"}
{"id": "274341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274341", "title": "Homage (arts)", "text": "Homage (arts)\n\nHomage ( or ) is a show or demonstration of respect or dedication to someone or something, sometimes by simple declaration but often by some more oblique reference, artistic or poetic. The term is often used in the arts for where one author or artist shows respect to another by allusion or imitation; this is often pronounced like the French \"hommage\" ().\n\nIt was originally a declaration of fealty in the feudal system—swearing that one was the man (French: \"homme\") of the feudal lord. The concept then became used figuratively for an acknowledgement of quality or superiority. For example, a man might give homage to a lady, so honouring her beauty and other graces. In German scholarship, followers of a great scholar developed the custom of honouring their mentor by producing papers for a \"festschrift\" dedicated to him.\n\nIn music homage can take the form of a composition (\"Homage to Paderewski\"), a tribute album (\"Homage to Charles Parker\") or a sample. , the digital techniques used to generate many forms of media make it easy to borrow from other works and this remediation may be used in homage to them.\n\n"}
{"id": "30082779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30082779", "title": "Hugh Freeze", "text": "Hugh Freeze\n\nDanny Hugh Freeze Jr. (born September 27, 1969) is an American football coach. Freeze served as the head football coach at Lambuth University from 2008 to 2009 and at Arkansas State University in 2011. He was previously a successful high school football coach at Briarcrest Christian School in Memphis, Tennessee, where he coached Michael Oher and Greg Hardy. He would later follow both of them to the University of Mississippi.\n\nFreeze attended Senatobia High School and the University of Southern Mississippi, from which he graduated in 1992 with a Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics and a minor in coaching and sports administration.\n\nIn 1992, Freeze joined the staff at Briarcrest Christian School in Memphis, Tennessee, as the football team's offensive coordinator and defensive backs coach. Freeze also served as dean of students. In 1995, he was promoted to head coach. Freeze ran the no huddle spread offense and led his team to the state championship twice, in 2002 and 2004, and the regional championship each year from 1995 to 1998 and in 2001 and 2002. He received Region 8-AA Coach of the Year honors five times and Associated Press Coach of the Year honors six times. In ten years at Briarcrest, Freeze was 94–30 as head coach (.785 winning percentage) and 126–37 overall. Freeze was depicted in and motion picture \"The Blind Side\", about one of his former players, current free agent offensive tackle Michael Oher.\n\nWhile at Briarcrest Christian School, Freeze also coached the girls basketball team from 1992 to 2004, and actually had more success in this role, with an overall record of 305–63 (.829 winning percentage), seven straight championship appearances, and four championships.\n\nFollowing his dismissal from Ole Miss, some former students alleged that Freeze had engaged in inappropriate conduct with female students while at Briarcrest. Freeze has denied the allegation and the school has stated it is unaware of any sexual improprieties involving Freeze during his tenure at the school.\n\nIn 2005, the University of Mississippi hired Freeze as an assistant athletic director for football external affairs. The following season, he became the tight ends coach and recruiting coordinator, positions he held through 2007. After that season, he replaced head coach Ed Orgeron on an interim basis before the hiring of Houston Nutt. Freeze interviewed for the offensive coordinator position with Nutt, a position that eventually went to Kent Austin.\n\nIn January 2008, Lambuth University, a member of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), named Freeze its head coach. In 2008, he led Lambuth to an 8–4 record and a first round loss in the NAIA playoffs, marking their first appearance in the playoffs since 2004 under then head coach Vic Wallace. He was considered for the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga's head coaching position following the 2008 season, but remained at Lambuth University for another season and compiled a 20–5 overall record, and defeating opponents 41–17 on average. In 2009, he led the Eagles to their best regular season record in school history with an unblemished 11–0 mark. Lambuth advanced to the second round of the NAIA playoffs for first time in 11 years—having won one game before suffering elimination to finish 12–1 as the sixth-ranked team in the NAIA.\n\nIn 2010, he joined the staff at Arkansas State as offensive coordinator after a brief stint as offensive coordinator at San Jose State University under Mike MacIntyre. The Red Wolves finished with a 4–8 record, but their offensive rankings jumped from 95th in total offense and 90th in scoring offense in the NCAA Division I FBS to 43rd and 46th, respectively. The Red Wolves' offense broke nine school records including total plays (856), first downs (262), pass attempts (438), pass completions (266), completion percentage (.607), passing yards (3,057), passing yards per game (254.8), and passing touchdowns (23). The Red Wolves' offense averaged 403.4 yards per game, eclipsing over 300 yards all 12 times it took the field for the first time in the history of the program. A-State posted at least 400 yards of total offense in seven games during the 2010 campaign, the most ever as an NCAA FBS member, all in his first year as offensive coordinator. After the season, Freeze was promoted to replace head coach Steve Roberts.\n\nIn 2011, his only season as head coach at Arkansas State, he led the Red Wolves to a 10–2 record and their first Sun Belt Conference title since 2005. The Red Wolves' offense averaged 447.8 ypg (28th nationally, 1st in Sun Belt Conference) including 293.6 ypg passing and 154.2 ypg rushing. Freeze left Arkansas State before the Arkansas State's appearance in the GoDaddy.com Bowl following the season.\n\nOn December 5, 2011, Freeze was announced as the 37th head coach of the University of Mississippi. During the press conference to introduce Freeze as the head coach, he stated that he wanted to \"retire at Ole Miss.\" He was signed to a four-year contract with an annual salary of $1.5 million plus incentives up to $2.5 million.\n\nIn his first season at Ole Miss, Freeze led the Rebels to a 6–6 record in the regular season, making Ole Miss bowl eligible for the first time since 2009 with a 41–24 victory over Mississippi State in the Egg Bowl. His Rebels accepted a bid to play in the BBVA Compass Bowl in Birmingham, Alabama, on January 5, 2013. They beat the University of Pittsburgh 38–17 to finish 7–6.\n\nFreeze received national attention on National Signing Day 2013 as Ole Miss brought in the fifth ranked recruiting class in the country.\n\nFreeze won the 2014 Grant Teaff Coach of the Year award by the Fellowship of Christian Athletes.\n\nDuring Freeze's third season at Ole Miss, he led the Rebels to a 7–0 start, the program's best start since the Johnny Vaught era. By October, they had risen as high as third in the nation, their highest ranking at that late stage in the season in almost half a century. They ultimately finished 9–3, only the third time since Vaught's tenure that Ole Miss has won that many games in the regular season. That netted them an appearance in the 2014 Peach Bowl–their first major bowl appearance since the 1970 Sugar Bowl, and easily the biggest bowl they had attended since Vaught's tenure.\n\nOn September 19, 2015, Freeze's Rebels beat Alabama, 43–37, in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, making Freeze only the third head coach, along with Les Miles and Steve Spurrier, to defeat a Nick Saban-coached team in back-to-back years (Michigan's Lloyd Carr beat Saban's Michigan State Spartans in three consecutive years, '96–'98). The victory catapulted the Rebels to #3 in the AP rankings. They went on to tally their second straight nine-win season, and garnered a berth in the 2016 Sugar Bowl, where they won 48–20 over Oklahoma State. They finished ninth in the AP Poll and 10th in the Coaches' Poll—their first top-10 finishes in a final poll since 1969.\n\nIn January 2016, the NCAA charged Ole Miss with numerous recruiting violations. An investigation turned up evidence that Ole Miss employees and boosters arranged numerous \"impermissible benefits\" for players, such as car loans and cash. At least one recruit was suspected of getting help on his college entrance exam. \n\nThe investigation reopened soon after star offensive tackle Laremy Tunsil admitted taking money from one of Freeze's assistants. In February 2017—three months after suffering its first losing season since the year Freeze arrived—Ole Miss withdrew from bowl consideration for the upcoming season. The move came on the same day that the NCAA sent an updated notice of allegations charging the Rebels with eight additional violations. Most seriously, it accused Freeze of not monitoring his assistants, and also accused Ole Miss of not properly controlling the program.\n\nOn July 13, 2017, Freeze's predecessor, Houston Nutt, sued Ole Miss for defamation, contending that Freeze and school officials falsely blamed him for the violations. As part of discovery for the lawsuit, Nutt's attorneys filed a Freedom of Information Act request for calls Freeze made on his university-issued cell phone during January 2016. Nutt's attorneys contended that Freeze and others at Ole Miss leaked information to the press as part of an effort to smear their client. \n\nWhile reviewing those records, Nutt's attorneys discovered a call to a number associated with a female escort service, and alerted Ole Miss officials about it. Freeze claimed it was a misdialed number. School officials investigated, and discovered what they later described as \"a concerning pattern\" of similar calls dating back to shortly after he arrived in Oxford. On July 20, chancellor Jeff Vitter and athletic director Ross Bjork gave Freeze an ultimatum: resign or be fired for violating the morals clause of his contract. Freeze opted to resign; offensive coordinator Matt Luke was named interim coach.\n\nOn October 11, 2018, Freeze was named as the Offensive Coordinator for the Arizona Hotshots of the Alliance of American Football.\n\nFreeze and his wife Jill have three daughters; Ragan, Jordan and Madison. Freeze is a born again Christian and has been outspoken about his faith throughout his coaching career. He and his family attend Pinelake Church in Oxford.\n\n\nAssistant coaches under Hugh Freeze who became NCAA head coaches:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5540510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5540510", "title": "ISO 639:x", "text": "ISO 639:x\n\n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n"}
{"id": "52651705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52651705", "title": "Isle of Dogs (film)", "text": "Isle of Dogs (film)\n\nA US–German co-production, \"Isle of Dogs\" was produced by Indian Paintbrush and Anderson's own production company, American Empirical Pictures, in association with Studio Babelsberg. The film opened the 68th Berlin International Film Festival, where Anderson was awarded the Silver Bear for Best Director. It was given a limited release in the United States on March 23, 2018, by Fox Searchlight Pictures, and went on wide release on April 13. It has grossed over $64 million worldwide, and received praise for its animation, story, and deadpan humor. A manga adaptation of the film by Minetarō Mochizuki was published in 2018, beginning with the May 24 issue of \"Weekly Morning\".\n\nIn a dystopian near-future Japan, an influenza virus spreads throughout the canine population, with a risk of crossing to humans. The 6-term authoritarian mayor of Megasaki City, Kenji Kobayashi, signs a decree banishing all dogs to Trash Island, despite a scientist named Professor Watanabe insisting he is close to finding a cure for the dog flu. The first to be exiled is Spots, who belonged to Atari Kobayashi, the orphaned nephew and ward of the mayor.\n\nSix months later, Atari steals a plane and flies to Trash Island to search for Spots. After crash-landing, Atari is rescued by a pack of dogs led by a seemingly black dog named Chief, who is a former stray. The pack decides to help Atari locate Spots, although Chief refuses to join because of his inability to fraternize with humans. Together, they fend off a rescue team accompanied by a robot dog that Kobayashi sent to retrieve Atari. Kobayashi claims Atari was kidnapped by the dogs and vows to kill them as punishment. At the insistence of a female purebreed named Nutmeg, Chief reluctantly decides to accompany the group on their search. They seek advice from two sage dogs, Jupiter and Oracle, who warn them of the existence of an isolated tribe of dogs rumored to be cannibals. Meanwhile, Professor Watanabe finds a cure and shows the results to Kobayashi, who still refuses to lift the dog ban. The professor is put on house arrest for criticizing Kobayashi and is then killed by poisoned wasabi in sushi. An American exchange student, Tracy Walker, suspects a conspiracy and begins to investigate.\n\nDuring the journey, Chief and Atari are separated from the others. Atari gives Chief a bath, which reveals that his coat is actually white. Noticing the similarity between Chief and Spots, Atari realizes they must be of the same extremely rare breed. Chief remembers being part of a litter of which all but one died. He bonds with Atari as they continue their journey. They rejoin the group, but are ambushed by Kobayashi's men. Spots arrives with the cannibal tribe, and they fend off the assailants together, causing Kobayashi to declare Atari to be dead. Spots confirms that Chief is his brother, and reveals that he was rescued by the tribe, who were not actually cannibals, became their leader, and mated with a female dog, Peppermint. Because of these circumstances, he asks to transfer his protection duties for Atari to Chief, which is granted.\n\nAn owl brings word that Kobayashi plans to order the extermination of all dogs on Trash Island and replace them with the robot dogs. Atari and the dogs prepare their journey to the mainland. Tracy confronts Watanabe's former colleague Yoko Ono, who confirms Tracy's suspicions and gives her the last remaining vial of the cure. At his re-election ceremony, Kobayashi prepares to give the order, but Tracy presents her evidence of his corruption. However, Kobayashi dismisses Tracy's evidence and orders her expulsion from Japan and deportation back to the United States. Chief, Atari and the dogs soon arrive, and confirm the cure works. Atari then presents a haiku, dedicated to Kobayashi, that signifies the sympathy that previously existed between dogs and humans. Kobayashi has a change of heart and revokes the decree, but his right-hand man, Major Domo, insists on triggering the extermination. A fight ensues with Kobayashi and Domo in which the \"execute\" button is pressed, but the poison backfires on the captors thanks to the help of a hacker from Tracy's high school.\n\nDuring the fight, Atari and Spots are gravely injured by the robot dog. Atari's remaining kidney fails, but Kobayashi, admitting his mistakes, donates one of his own to save him. By law, mayorship of the city falls to Atari, and he decrees that dogs are allowed to reintegrate into society. Kobayashi along with Major Domo and their political allies are jailed for their corruption.\n\nTracy and Atari become a couple, and Chief reunites with Nutmeg and takes up the role of bodyguard for Atari. Spots, who had been presumed dead, recovers and secretly raises his litter with Peppermint under the Kobayashi manor.\n\nIn October 2015, Anderson, who had previously directed the animated film \"Fantastic Mr. Fox\", announced he would be returning to the genre with \"a film about dogs\" starring Edward Norton, Bryan Cranston and Bob Balaban. Anderson has said that he was inspired by seeing a road sign for the Isle of Dogs in England while \"Fantastic Mr. Fox\" was in development. Anderson said that the film was strongly influenced by the films of Akira Kurosawa, as well as the stop-motion animated holiday specials made by Rankin/Bass Productions.\n\nProduction began in October 2016 at the 3 Mills Studios in East London.\n\nThe animation department included a number of people who had worked on \"Fantastic Mr. Fox\".\n\n20,000 faces and animatable 1,105 puppets were crafted by \"12 sculptors working six days a week\" for the film. 2,000 more puppets were made for background characters. The detailed puppets of the main characters took an average of two to three months to create.\n\nOn December 23, 2016, Fox Searchlight Pictures acquired worldwide distribution rights to the film, with plans for a 2018 release. A trailer was released on September 21, 2017.\n\nThe film premiered as the opening film of the 68th Berlin International Film Festival on February 15, 2018, and had its North American premiere as the closing film of the SXSW Film Festival in Austin, Texas, on March 17, 2018. \"Isle of Dogs\" began a limited release in the U.S. on March 23, 2018. It was released nationwide in the United States on April 13, 2018.\n\n\"Isle of Dogs\" was released on digital on June 26, 2018, and on DVD and Blu-ray on July 17, 2018.\n\nIn its first weekend of limited release, the film made $1.57 million from 27 theaters (an average of $58,148 per venue). It was the best per-theater average of 2018 until it was overtaken by \"Eighth Grade\" in July. Sixty percent of its audience was under the age of 30. In its second weekend the film made $2.8 million from 165 theaters (an increase of 74 percent), finishing 11th. The film entered the top 10 in its third weekend, making $4.6 million from 554 theaters. The film expanded to 1,939 theaters the following week and made $5 million, finishing 7th at the box office.\n\nOn review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 89% based on 295 reviews, and an average rating of 8/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"The beautifully stop-motion animated \"Isle of Dogs\" finds Wes Anderson at his detail-oriented best while telling one of the director's most winsomely charming stories.\" On Metacritic, which assigns normalized ratings to reviews, the film has a weighted average score of 82 out of 100, based on 55 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim.\" Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"A\" on an A+ to F scale, while PostTrak reported filmgoers gave it an overall positive score of 88 percent.\n\nRichard Roeper of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film 3.5 out of 4 stars, praising it for taking risks, and saying: \"It's smart and different and sometimes deliberately odd and really funny—rarely in a laugh-out-loud way, more in a smile-and-nod-I-get-the-joke kind of way.\" \"Exclaim!\" gave the film 7 out of 10, saying it \"has all the hallmarks of another Wes Anderson classic.\"\n\nSome critics have argued that the film is an example of racial stereotyping and cultural appropriation, and that one of its characters aligns with the trope of the \"white savior\". The Japanese characters speak unsubtitled Japanese, with their dialogue instead being translated by an interpreter or a machine. Justin Chang of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote \"It's in the director's handling of the story's human factor that his sensitivity falters, and the weakness for racial stereotyping that has sometimes marred his work comes to the fore ... Much of the Japanese dialogue has been pared down to simple statements that non-speakers can figure out based on context and facial expressions\". Angie Han, writing in \"Mashable\", calls the American exchange student character Tracy a \"classic example of the 'white savior' archetype—the well-meaning white hero who arrives in a foreign land and saves its people from themselves\".\n\nWhile this critique has created some furore on the film's release, Chang has said that his review had been taken out of context and turned into a \"battle cry\" on Twitter, adding, \"I wasn't offended; nor was I looking to be offended\". Another Japanese-American perspective was provided by Emily Yoshida, writing in \"New York\" magazine, that these concerns had been \"seen before in debates about Asian culture as reflected by Western culture—perspectives can vary wildly between Asian-Americans and immigrated Asians, and what feels like tribute to some feels like opportunism to others\".\n\nWriting for BuzzFeed, Alison Willmore found \"no overt malicious intent to \"Isle of Dogs\" cultural tourism, but it's marked by a hodgepodge of references that an American like Anderson might cough up if pressed to free associate about Japan—taiko drummers, anime, Hokusai, sumo, kabuki, haiku, cherry blossoms, and a mushroom cloud (!). ... This all has more to do with the ... insides of Anderson's brain than it does any actual place. It's Japan purely as an aesthetic—and another piece of art that treats the East not as a living, breathing half of the planet but as a mirror for the Western imagination\". She continued, \"in the wake of \"Isle of Dogs\" opening weekend, there were multiple headlines wondering whether the film was an act of appropriation or homage. But the question is rhetorical—the two aren't mutually exclusive, and the former is not automatically off the table just because the creator's intent was the latter\".\n\nConversely, Moeko Fujii wrote a favorable review for \"The New Yorker\", complimenting the film's depiction of the Japanese and their culture, as well as pointing out that language is the key theme of the movie. Fujii wrote, \n\nAnderson's decision not to subtitle the Japanese speakers struck me as a carefully considered artistic choice. \"Isle of Dogs\" is profoundly interested in the humor and fallibility of translation ... This is the beating heart of the film: there is no such thing as \"true\" translation. Everything is interpreted. Translation is malleable and implicated, always, by systems of power ... [the film] shows the seams of translation, and demarcates a space that is accessible—and funny—only to Japanese viewers.\n\nFujii also deconstructed the criticisms of the character of Tracy Walker being a \"white savior,\" and how this relates to the film's language theme, writing,\n\nAt a climactic moment, the movie rejects the notion of universal legibility, placing the onus of interpretation solely upon the American audience ... This is a sly subversion, in which the Japanese evince an agency independent of foreign validation. Indeed, to say that the scene dehumanizes the Japanese is to assume the primacy of an English-speaking audience. Such logic replicates the very tyranny of language that \"Isle of Dogs\" attempts to erode.\n\nThe film's score was composed by Alexandre Desplat, who had previously worked with Anderson on \"Fantastic Mr. Fox\", \"Moonrise Kingdom,\" and \"The Grand Budapest Hotel\". The soundtrack also features various original and selected songs from a variety of musicians, mainly from Japan. Some songs had origins in classic Japanese cinema such as the Akira Kurosawa films \"Drunken Angel\" (1948) and \"Seven Samurai\" (1954). The soundtrack comprises 22 tracks in total, 15 of which were composed by Desplat.\n\nAll tracks written and performed by Alexandre Desplat, except where noted.\n"}
{"id": "10691809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10691809", "title": "Lather, rinse, repeat", "text": "Lather, rinse, repeat\n\nLather, rinse, repeat (sometimes wash, rinse, repeat) is an idiom roughly quoting the instructions found on many brands of shampoo. It is also used as a humorous way of pointing out that such instructions, if taken literally, would result in an endless loop of repeating the same steps, at least until one runs out of shampoo. It is also a sarcastic metaphor for following instructions or procedures slavishly without critical thought.\n\nIt is known as the shampoo algorithm, and is a classic example of an algorithm in introductory computer science classes.\n\nIn Benjamin Cheever's novel \"The Plagiarist\", a fictional advertising executive increases the sales of his client's shampoo by adding the word \"repeat\" to its instructions.\n\n"}
{"id": "34871759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34871759", "title": "Lifewide education", "text": "Lifewide education\n\nLifewide education is an educational concept that recognizes that learning occurs in multiple contexts within a learner's life: school, home, work, etc. It is the means by which an educational institution encourages, supports and recognizes students' lifewide learning.\n\nIt is a concept that is compared and contrasted to lifelong education, recognizing that not only does learning occur continually throughout one's life, it occurs broadly across every situation in one's life. The modern concept of lifewide learning first emerged in a report prepared by the Swedish National Agency for Education which stated:\n\n\"The lifelong dimension represents what the individual learns throughout the whole life-span. Knowledge rapidly becomes obsolete and it is necessary for the individual to update knowledge and competence in a continuous process of learning. Education cannot be limited to the time spent in school, the individual must have a real opportunity to learn throughout life. The lifelong dimension is non-problematic, what is essential is that the individual learns throughout life. The \"lifewide dimension\" refers to the fact that learning takes place in a variety of different environments and situations, and is not only confined to the formal educational system. \"Lifewide learning\" covers formal, non-formal and informal learning\".\n\nThe idea quickly spread through the policy community and became incorporated into the thinking of economists concerned with measuring value in lifelong learning. A presentation entitled \"Measuring the Impact of the New Economy in Education Sector Outputs\" dated 2002 on the UK Government Statistics Office website, makes reference to measuring lifewide learning. Richard Desjardins utilised the idea of lifewide learning in his conceptual framework for the economic evaluation of lifelong learning.\n\nMore recently an EU Foresight Report, \"The Future of Learning: Preparing for Change\", incorporated the lifewide concept into its central learning paradigm.\n\nExamples of lifewide learning implementations can be found in the Hong Kong primary and secondary school systems, and the Surrey Centre for Excellence in Professional Training and Education (SCEPTrE) at the University of Surrey where the concept of lifewide learning and its recognition through a lifewide learning award was developed (Jackson 2011).\n\nThe Lifewide Education Community has been established to promote and support lifewide learning, education and personal development.\n\n"}
{"id": "162680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162680", "title": "List of soap operas", "text": "List of soap operas\n\nThis is a list of soap operas by country of origin.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDaytime\n\nPrimetime\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46971685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46971685", "title": "Loosduinen dialect", "text": "Loosduinen dialect\n\nLoosduinen dialect is a dialect of Dutch spoken in the Loosduinen district of The Hague. It is very similar to The Hague dialect.\n\n"}
{"id": "49552930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49552930", "title": "Media ritual", "text": "Media ritual\n\nMedia ritual is a term used to describe a theoretical approach in the field of media and communication studies, which borrows thematically from the field of anthropology. The theory is based upon Carey's 'ritual view of communication' in which he asserts that \"news reading, and writing, is a ritual act and moreover a dramatic one.\" (Carey, 1989). This 'ritual' view of communication is in contrast to his 'transmission' view of communication. Media ritual theory has been elaborated in recent years, popularised in particular by Nick Couldry (e.g. Couldry, 2003).\n"}
{"id": "11473513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11473513", "title": "Mimesis (magazine)", "text": "Mimesis (magazine)\n\nMimesis is a quarterly literary magazine based in Norwich that deals predominantly with poetry. The magazine was started in 2007. Issues appear in January, April, July and November. The journal stands out for the number of pages filled purely by poems. An interview with a well-known poet is also featured in each issue. A small number of greyscale artworks appear alongside the writing. \n\n"}
{"id": "23845319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23845319", "title": "Monument to Chocolate", "text": "Monument to Chocolate\n\nThe Monument to Chocolate, commonly known as Chocolate Fairy (), is a monument in the town of Pokrov, Vladimir Oblast, Russia.\n\nA bronze statue was created in 2009 and is known as the first monument to chocolate in the world. The monument is shaped as a chocolate bar, and represents a figure of a magic fairy holding a chocolate in her hands. The monument was unveiled on 1 July 2009, not far from the Pokrov Museum of Chocolate.\n\nThe monument was given to the town by Kraft Foods to mark the 15th anniversary of the company’s operation in Russia. Kraft Foods' chocolate factory is well known as a producer of chocolate under the brands Alpen Gold, Milka, and Vozdushny, is the backbone enterprise of Pokrov.\n\nTwenty sculptors from the cities of Vladimir and St. Petersburg participated in the competition for the best design of the monument. The project to create the first monument to chocolate was awarded to Ilya Shanin, a talented Vladimir sculptor and winner of the European sand sculptors' championship whose works were displayed in the cities of Germany, Austria and Belgium. It took him a year and a half to complete the sculpture.\n\nThe monument is tall and weighs .\n\nA legend associated with the statue says that if one makes a wish and rubs the chocolate tile in the Fairy's hand, his/her life will be sweeter.\n"}
{"id": "12361695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12361695", "title": "National Library of Paraguay", "text": "National Library of Paraguay\n\nThe National Library of Paraguay (in Spanish: \"Biblioteca Nacional del Paraguay\") was created in 1887. It is the legal deposit and copyright library for Paraguay.\n\n"}
{"id": "17182096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17182096", "title": "National Occupational Standards", "text": "National Occupational Standards\n\nNational Occupational Standards (NOS) specify UK standards of performance that people are expected to achieve in their work, and the knowledge and skills they need to perform effectively.\n\nNOS, which are approved by UK government regulators, are available for almost every role in every sector in the UK. For example, there are NOS for: \n\nAll approved National Occupational Standards are available for downloading free of charge from the NOS Directory.\n\nAccording to the SSDA (the Sector Skills Development Agency, replaced in 2008 by the UK Commission for Employment and Skills and the Federation for Industry Sector Skills and Standards, comprising all 19 Sector Skills Councils), a unit of NOS must comprise:\n\nNOS may also have sections covering:\n\nNOS can be used to support any and all human resource management and development activities, as shown in the toolkit developed for Skills for Justice to support the use of the NOS for Legal Advice.\n\nNOS are also used in the UK as the basis for National Vocational Qualifications and Scottish Vocational Qualifications.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21103178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21103178", "title": "National Tourism Administration (Laos)", "text": "National Tourism Administration (Laos)\n\nThe Lao National Tourism Administration \"(LNTA)\" is the government agency responsible for governing, promoting and developing the tourism industry of Laos. The LNTA is a ministry-level agency, reporting directly to the prime minister's office. \n\nThe Chairman of the LNTA is H.E. Mr.Somphong Mongkhonvilay. The agency is located in Vientiane.\n\n\nIncluding the Agency page itself, there are four official links currently listed on the Agency's 'Contact us' page.\n"}
{"id": "929323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=929323", "title": "Origin of the Albanians", "text": "Origin of the Albanians\n\nThe origin of the Albanians has long been a matter of dispute among historians. Little is known about the ancient Balkan people, and they blended into one another in Thraco-Illyrian and Daco-Thracian contact zones even in antiquity.\n\nThe Albanians first appear in the historical record in Byzantine sources of the 11th century. At this point, they were already fully Christianized. Very little evidence of pre-Christian Albanian culture survives, although Albanian mythology and folklore are of Paleo-Balkanic origin and almost all of their elements are pagan, in particular showing Greek influence.\n\nThe Albanian language forms a separate branch of Indo-European, first attested in the 15th century, and is considered to have evolved from one of the Paleo-Balkan languages of antiquity.\n\nContemporary historians conclude that, like all Balkan peoples, the Albanians are not descendants of a single ancient population; apart from the main ancestor, prehistoric Balkan populations such as the Illyrians, Dacians or Thracians, there is an additional admixture from Slavic, Greek, Vlach, Romano-Italian, Celtic and Germanic elements. Studies in genetic anthropology show that the Albanians share similar ancestry to many other Europeans, and especially other peoples of the Balkans. The Albanians are also one of Europe's populations that has most common ancestors within their own ethnic group even though they share ancestors with other ethnic groups.\n\nThe Albanian language is attested in a written form only in the 15th century AD, when the Albanian ethnos was already formed. In the absence of prior data on the language, scholars have used the Latin and Slav loans into Albanian for identifying its location of origin.\n\nThe place where the Albanian language was formed is uncertain. Analysis has suggested that it was in a mountainous region, rather than in a plain or seacoast. While the words for plants and animals characteristic of mountainous regions are entirely original, the names for fish and for agricultural activities are generally assumed to have been borrowed from other languages. However, considering the presence of some preserved old terms related to the sea fauna, some have assumed that this vocabulary might have been lost in the course of time after the proto-Albanian tribes were pushed back into the inland during invasions. The Slavic loans in Albanian suggest that contacts between the two populations took place when Albanians dwelt in forests 600–900 metres above sea level. The overwhelming amount of mountaineering and shepherding vocabulary, coupled with the extensive influence of Latin makes it likely that the Albanians originated north of the Jireček Line, further north and inland than the current borders of Albania suggest.\nIt has long been recognized that there are two treatments of Latin loans in Albanian, of Old Dalmatian type and Romanian type, but that would point out to two geographic layers, coastal Adriatic and inner Balkan region. Some scholars believe that the Latin influence over Albanian is of Eastern Romance origin, rather than of Dalmatian origin, which would exclude Dalmatia as a place of origin. Adding to this the several hundred words in Romanian that are cognate only with Albanian cognates (see Eastern Romance substratum), these scholars assume that Romanians and Albanians lived in close proximity at one time. The area where this might have happened is the Morava Valley in eastern Serbia.\n\nAnother argument in favor of a northern origin for the Albanian language is the relatively small number of words of Greek origin, mostly from Doric dialect, even though Southern Illyria neighbored the Classical Greek civilization and there were a number of Greek colonies along the Illyrian coastline. However, in view of the amount of Albanian-Greek isoglosses, which the scholar Vladimir Orel considers surprisingly high (in comparison with the Indo-Albanian and Armeno-Albanian ones), the author concludes that this particular proximity could be the result of intense secondary contacts of two proto-dialects.\n\nThose scholars who maintain the Illyrian origin of Albanians maintain that the indigenous Illyrian tribes dwelling in South Illyria went up into the mountains when Slavs occupied the lowlands, while another version of this hypothesis maintains that the Albanians are the descendants of Illyrian tribes located between Dalmatia and the Danube, who spilled south.\n\nThe scholars who support a Dacian origin of Albanians maintain that between the 3rd and 6th centuries AD, Albanians moved southwards from the Moesian area, while those scholars who maintain a Thracian origin hypothesize that the proto-Albanians are to be located in Thracian territory in the area between Niš, Skopje, Sofia and Albania or from the Rhodope and Balkan Mountains, where they moved to Albania before the arrival of the Slavs.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Albanians call themselves (endonym) \"Shqiptar\". There are various theories of the origin of the word:\n\n\nThe oldest known document in Albanian is a 208-page manuscript discovered in the Vatican Secret Archives written by Theodor of Shkodra in 1210. The manuscript consists of three different works: pages 1–97 deal with theology, 98-146 with philosophy, and 147-208 with the history of the known world from 147 AD to December 1209.\n\nWhile Albanian (\"shqip\") ethnogenesis clearly postdates the Roman era, an element of continuity from the pre-Roman provincial population is widely held to be plausible on linguistic and archaeological grounds.\n\nThe three chief candidates considered by historians are Illyrian, Dacian, or Thracian, but there were other non-Greek groups in the ancient Balkans, including Paionians (who lived north of Macedon) and Agrianians. The Illyrian language and the Thracian language are often considered to have been in different Indo-European branches. Not much is left of the old Illyrian, Dacian or Thracian languages, which makes it difficult to match Albanian with them.\n\nThere is debate on whether the Illyrian language was a centum or a satem language.\nIt is also uncertain whether Illyrians spoke a homogeneous language or rather a collection of different but related languages that were wrongly considered the same language by ancient writers. The Venetic tribes, formerly considered Illyrian, are no longer considered categorised with Illyrians. The same is sometimes said of the Thracian language. For example, based on the toponyms and other lexical items, Thracian and Dacian were probably different but related languages.\n\nIn the early 20th century, many scholars thought that Thracian and Illyrian were one language branch, but the lack of evidence has made most linguists skeptical and now reject the idea. They usually place them on different branches.\n\nThe debate is often politically charged, and to be conclusive ,more evidence is needed. Such evidence unfortunately may not be easily forthcoming because of a lack of sources. The area of what is now Macedonia, Kosovo, and Albania was a melting pot of Thracian, Illyrian and Greek cultures in ancient times.\n\nThe theory that Albanians were related to the Illyrians was proposed for the first time by the Swedish historian Johann Erich Thunmann in 1774. The scholars who advocate an Illyrian origin are numerous. There are two variants of the theory: one is that the Albanians are the descendants of indigenous Illyrian tribes dwelling in what is now Albania. The other is that the Albanians are the descendants of Illyrian tribes located north of the Jireček Line and probably north or northeast of Albania.\n\nThe arguments for the Illyrian-Albanian connection have been as follows:\n\nThe theory of an Illyrian origin of the Albanians is challenged on archaeological and linguistic grounds.\n\nAside from an Illyrian origin, a Dacian or Thracian origin is also hypothesized. There are a number of factors taken as evidence for a Dacian or Thracian origin of Albanians. According to Vladimir Orel, for example, the territory associated with proto-Albanian almost certainly does not correspond with that of modern Albania, i.e. the Illyrian coast, but rather that of Dacia Ripensis and farther north.\n\nThe Romanian historian I. I. Russu has originated the theory that Albanians represent a massive migration of the Carpi population pressed by the Slavic migrations. Due to political reasons the book was first published in 1995 and translated in German by Konrad Gündisch.\n\nThe German historian Gottfried Schramm (1994) suggests an origin of the Albanians in the Bessoi, a Thracian tribe that was Christianized as early as during the 4th century. Schramm argues that such an early Christianization would explain the otherwise surprising virtual absence of any traces of a pre-Christian pagan religion among the Albanians as they appear in history during the Late Middle Ages. According to this theory, the Bessoi were deported \"en masse\" by the Byzantines at the beginning of the 9th century to central Albania for the purpose of fighting against the Bulgarians. In their new homeland, the ancestors of the Albanians took the geographic name \"Arbanon\" as their ethnic name and proceeded to assimilate local populations of Slavs, Greeks, and Romans.\n\nLinguist Eric Hamp on the other hand posits that Albanian \"can be said to be related more closely to Baltic and Slavic than to anything else, and certainly not to be close to Thracian\".\n\nCities whose names follow Albanian phonetic laws – such as \"Shtip\" (Štip), \"Shkupi\" (Skopje) and \"Nish\" (Niš) – lie in the areas, believed to historically been inhabited by Thracians, Paionians and Dardani; the latter is most often considered an Illyrian tribe by ancient historians. While there still is no clear picture of where the Illyrian-Thracian border was, Niš is mostly considered Illyrian territory.\n\nThere are some close correspondences between Thracian and Albanian words. However, as with Illyrian, most Dacian and Thracian words and names have not been closely linked with Albanian (v. Hamp). Also, many Dacian and Thracian placenames were made out of joined names (such as Dacian \"Sucidava\" or Thracian \"Bessapara\"; see List of Dacian cities and List of ancient Thracian cities), while the modern Albanian language does not allow this.\n\nBulgarian linguist Vladimir I. Georgiev posits that Albanians descend from a Dacian population from Moesia, now the Morava region of eastern Serbia, and that Illyrian toponyms are found in a far smaller area than the traditional area of Illyrian settlement. According to Georgiev, Latin loanwords into Albanian show East Balkan Latin (proto-Romanian) phonetics, rather than West Balkan (Dalmatian) phonetics. Combined with the fact that the Romanian language contains several hundred words similar only to Albanian, Georgiev proposes the Albanian language formed between the 4th and 6th centuries in or near modern-day Romania, which was Dacian territory. He suggests that Romanian is a fully Romanised Dacian language, whereas Albanian is only partly so. Albanian and Eastern Romance also share grammatical features (see Balkan language union) and phonological features, such as the common phonemes or the rhotacism of \"n\".\n\nApart from the linguistic theory that Albanian is more akin to East Balkan Romance (i.e. Dacian substrate) than West Balkan Romance (i.e. Illyrian/Dalmatian substrate), Georgiev also notes that marine words in Albanian are borrowed from other languages, suggesting that Albanians were not originally a coastal people. According to Georgiev the scarcity of Greek loan words also supports a Dacian theory – if Albanians originated in the region of Illyria there would surely be a heavy Greek influence. Lastly, Georgiev also notes that Illyrian toponyms do not follow Albanian phonetic laws. According to historian John Van Antwerp Fine, who does define \"Albanians\" in his glossary as \"an Indo-European people, probably descended from the ancient Illyrians\", nevertheless states that \"these are serious (non-chauvinistic) arguments that cannot be summarily dismissed.\"\n\nHamp, on the other hand, seems to agree with Georgiev in relation to Albania with Dacian but disagrees on the chronological order of events. Hamp argues that Albanians could have arrived in Albania through present-day Kosovo sometime in the late Roman period. Also, contrary to Georgiev, he indicates there are words that follow Dalmatian phonetic rules in Albanian, giving as an example the word \"drejt\" 'straight' < \"d(i)rectus\" matching developments in Old Dalmatian \"traita\" < \"tract\".\n\nThere are no records that indicate a major migration of Dacians into present-day Albania, but two Dacian cities existed: Thermidava close to Scodra and Quemedava in Dardania. Also, the Thracian settlement of Dardapara existed in Dardania. Phrygian tribes such as the Bryges were present in Albania near Durrës since before the Roman conquest (v. Hamp). An argument against a Thracian origin (which does not apply to Dacian) is that most Thracian territory was on the Greek half of the Jireček Line, aside from varied Thracian populations stretching from Thrace into Albania, passing through Paionia and Dardania and up into Moesia; it is considered that most Thracians were Hellenized in Thrace (v. Hoddinott) and Macedonia.\n\nThe Dacian theory could also be consistent with the known patterns of barbarian incursions. Although there is no documentation of an Albanian migration, \"during the fourth to sixth centuries the Rumanian region was heavily affected by large-scale invasion of Goths and Slavs, and the Morava valley (in Serbia) was a main invasion route and the site of the earliest known Slavic sites. Thus this would have been a region from which an indigenous population would naturally have fled\".\n\nRomanian scholars such as Vatasescu and Mihaescu, using lexical analysis of the Albanian language, have concluded that Albanian was heavily influenced by an extinct Romance language that was distinct from both Romanian and Dalmatian. Because the Latin words common to only Romanian and Albanian are significantly less than those that are common to only Albanian and Western Romance, Mihaescu argues that the Albanian language evolved in a region with much greater contact to Western Romance regions than to Romanian-speaking regions, and located this region in present-day Albania, Kosovo and Western Macedonia, spanning east to Bitola and Pristina.\n\nIt has been concluded that the partial Latinization of Roman-era Albania was heavy in coastal areas, the plains and along the \"Via Egnatia\", which passed through Albania. In these regions, Madgearu notes that the survival of Illyrian names and the depiction of people with Illyrian dress on gravestones is not enough to prove successful resistance against Romanization, and that in these regions there were many Latin inscriptions and Roman settlements. Madgearu concludes that only the northern mountain regions escaped Romanization. In some regions, Madgearu concludes that it has been shown that in some areas a Latinate population that survived until at least the seventh century passed on local placenames, which had mixed characteristics of Eastern and Western Romance, into the Albanian language.\n\nThe Koman culture theory, which is generally viewed by Albanian archaeologists as archaeological evidence of evolution from \"Illyrian\" ancestors to medieval Albanians, has found little support outside Albania. Indeed, Anglo-American anthropologists highlight that even if regional population continuity can be proven, this does not translate into linguistic, much less \"ethnic\" continuity. Both aspects of culture can be modified or drastically changed even in the absence of large-scale population flux.\n\nProminent in the discussions are certain brooch forms, seen to derive from Illyrian prototypes. However, a recent analysis revealed that whilst broad analogies are indeed evident to Iron Age Illyrian forms, the inspiration behind Komani fibulae is more closely linked to Late Roman fibulae, particularly those from Balkan forts in the present-day Serbia and northwestern Bulgaria. This \"might\" suggest that after the general collapse of the Roman \"limes\" in the early 7th century, some late Roman population withdrew to Epirus. However, assemblages also have many \"barbarian\" artefacts, such as Slavic bow-fibulae, Avar-styled belt mounts and Carolingian glass vessels. By contrast, beyond the immediate Adriatic littoral, most of the west Balkans (including Dardania) appears to have been depopulated after the early 7th century from almost a century. Another aspect of discontinuity is the design of the tombs: pits lined by limestone rocks, a construction used in the region since the Iron Age period. However the tombs in the 7th century, such burials are in a Christian context (placed next to churches) rather than reversion to a pagan Illyrian past.\n\nA further argument against a proto-Albanian affinity of the Komani culture is that very similar material is found in central Dalmatia, Montenegro, western Macedonia and south-eastern Bulgaria, along the Via Egnatia; and even islands such as Corfu and Sardinia. The \"late Roman\" character of the assemblages has led some to hypothesize that it represented Byzantine garrisons. However, already by this time, literary sources give testimony of widespread Slavic settlements in the central Balkans. Specifically for Albania, the study of lexicon and toponyms might suggest that speakers of proto-Albanian, Slavic and Romance co-existed but occupied specific ecologic/ economic niches.\n\nVarious genetic studies have been done on the European population, some of them including current Albanian population, Albanian-speaking populations outside Albania, and the Balkan region as a whole.\n\nThe three haplogroups most strongly associated with Albanian people (E-V13, R1b and J2b2) are often considered to have arrived in Europe from the Near East with the Neolithic revolution or late Mesolithic, early in the Holocene epoch. Within the Balkans, all three have a local peak in Kosovo, and are overall more common among Albanians, Greeks and Vlachs than Slavs (albeit with some representation among Bulgarians). R1b has much higher frequencies in areas of Europe further to the West, while E1b1b and J2 are widespread at lower frequencies throughout Europe and also have very large frequencies among Greeks, Italians, Macedonians and Bulgarians.\n\n\n\nA study by Peričić et al. in 2005 found the following Y-Dna haplogroup frequencies in Albanians from Kosovo with E-V13 subclade of haplogroup E1b1b representing 43.85% of the total (note that Albanians from other regions have slightly lower percentages of E-V13, but similar J2b and R1b):\nA study by Battaglia et al. in 2008 found the following haplogroup distributions among Albanians in Albania itself: \nThe same study by Battaglia et al. (2008) also found the following distributions among Albanians in Macedonia:\n\nA study on the Y chromosome haplotypes DYS19 STR and YAP and on mitochondrial DNA found no significant difference between Albanians and most other Europeans.\n\nAnother study of old Balkan populations and their genetic affinities with current European populations was done in 2004, based on mitochondrial DNA on the skeletal remains of some old Thracian populations from SE of Romania, dating from the Bronze and Iron Age. This study was during excavations of some human fossil bones of 20 individuals dating about 3200–4100 years, from the Bronze Age, belonging to some cultures such as Tei, Monteoru and Noua were found in graves from some necropoles SE of Romania, namely in Zimnicea, Smeeni, Candesti, Cioinagi-Balintesti, Gradistea-Coslogeni and Sultana-Malu Rosu; and the human fossil bones and teeth of 27 individuals from the early Iron Age, dating from the 10th to 7th centuries BC from the Hallstatt Era (the Babadag culture), were found extremely SE of Romania near the Black Sea coast, in some settlements from Dobruja, namely: Jurilovca, Satu Nou, Babadag, Niculitel and Enisala-Palanca. After comparing this material with the present-day European population, the authors concluded:\n\nComputing the frequency of common point mutations of the present-day European population with the Thracian population has resulted that the Italian (7.9%), the Albanian (6.3%) and the Greek (5.8%) have shown a bias of closer genetic kinship with the Thracian individuals than the Romanian and Bulgarian individuals (only 4.2%).\n\nAnalysis of autosomal DNA, which analyses \"all\" genetic components has revealed that few rigid genetic discontinuities exist in European populations, apart from certain outliers such as Saami, Sardinians, Basques, Finns and Kosovar Albanians. They found that Albanians, on the one hand, have a high amount of identity by descent sharing, suggesting that Albanian-speakers derived from a relatively small population that expanded recently and rapidly in the last 1,500 years. On the other hand, they are not wholly isolated or endogamous because Greek and Macedonian samples shared much higher numbers of common ancestors with Albanian speakers than with other neighbors, possibly a result of historical migrations, or else perhaps smaller effects of the Slavic expansion in these populations. At the same time the sampled Italians shared nearly as much IBD with Albanian speakers as with each other. \n\nLaonikos Chalkokondyles (c. 1423–1490), the Byzantine historian, considered the Albanians to be an extension of the Italians. The theory has its origin in the first mention of the Albanians, disputed whether it refers to Albanians in an ethnic sense, made by Attaliates (11th century): \"...For when subsequent commanders made base and shameful plans and decisions, not only was the island lost to Byzantium, but also the greater part of the army. Unfortunately, the people who had once been our allies and who possessed the same rights as citizens and the same religion, i.e. the Albanians and the Latins, who live in the Italian regions of our Empire beyond Western Rome, quite suddenly became enemies when Michael Dokeianos insanely directed his command against their leaders...\"\n\nOne of the earliest theories on the origins of the Albanians, now considered obsolete, incorrectly identified the proto-Albanians with an area of the eastern Caucasus, separately referred to by classical geographers as Caucasian Albania, located in what roughly corresponds to modern-day southern Dagestan, northern Azerbaijan and bordering Caucasian Iberia to its west. This theory conflated the two Albanias supposing that the ancestors of the Balkan Albanians (\"Shqiptarët\") had migrated westward in the late classical or early medieval period. The Caucasian theory was first proposed by Renaissance humanists who were familiar with the works of classical geographers, and later developed by early 19th-century French consul and writer François Pouqueville. It was soon rendered obsolete in the 19th century when linguists proved Albanian as being an Indo-European, rather than Caucasian language.\n\nAnother obsolete theory on the origin of the Albanians is that they descend from the Pelasgians, a broad term used by classical authors to denote the autochthonous inhabitants of Greece. This theory was developed by the Austrian linguist Johann Georg von Hahn in his work \"Albanesische Studien\" in 1854. According to Hahn, the Pelasgians were the original proto-Albanians and the language spoken by the Pelasgians, Illyrians, Epirotes and ancient Macedonians were closely related. This theory quickly attracted support in Albanian circles, as it established a claim of predecence over other Balkan nations, particularly the Greeks. In addition to establishing \"historic right\" to territory this theory also established that the ancient Greek civilization and its achievements had an \"Albanian\" origin. The theory gained staunch support among early 20th-century Albanian publicists. This theory is rejected by scholars today. In contemporary times with the Arvanite revival of the Pelasgian theory, it has also been recently borrowed by other Albanian speaking populations within and from Albania in Greece to counter the negative image of their communities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36713338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36713338", "title": "Physical cultural studies", "text": "Physical cultural studies\n\nPhysical Cultural Studies (PCS) encompasses the diversely focused field of scholarly work which is united by a commitment toward engaging varied dimensions or expressions of (in)active bodies or physical culture (Andrews & Silk, 2011). In this physical culture is understood as “cultural practices in which the physical body – the way it moves, is represented, has meanings assigned to it, and is imbued with power – is central” (Vertinsky, quoted in Silk & Andrews, 2011)\nPhysical Cultural Studies is closely related to the fields of sport sociology, cultural studies, sociology of the body, body culture studies, queer studies and disability studies. \n\nPCS is predominantly concerned with studying the active body. The aim of such a focus is to problematise the taken-for-granted aspects of human movement and embodiment in such a way that makes social divisions (class, gender, ethnicity, ability, generation, sex, nation, race), and the processes that produce, reproduce and contest these divisions become visible and changeable. In this respect, we can see that the 'physical' is of central importance to PCS. Indeed, it is this empirical focus ( and subsequent breadth) that separates PCS from fields such as the sociology of sport. This is because PCS scholars take as their subjects of study - all the many and varied, more or less 'legitimate', popular and emerging, work or leisure related - forms of physical culture. areas of study include: exercise, health, dance, recreation, leisure, fitness, daily living, and work related activities.\n\nIn the analysis of these activities PCS considers context and contextualisation to be vital. Indeed, how can one understand a cultural practice without reference to all the surrounding factors, flows, processes, actors and institutions with which it is articulated? For example, PCS researchers identify and seek to understand the complex political, economic, social and technological relationships in which the event occurs in order to understand physical culture as relational.\n\nThose in the field of physical cultural studies believe that research into, or understanding of, physical culture is of little importance if it does not make a difference in the world. Therefore, the idea of 'value free' research is not accepted in PCS. Instead, Partisanship is the dominant ideal. Such a perspective is related to many aspects of PCS study that vary from 'mainstream' academia. For example, PCS is concerned with care and community in which public education is of central importance. In addition, PCS aims to be political, empowering and reflexive. Finally PCS researchers attempt to question their presupposed hierarchy over the researched.\n\nSee also praxis\n\nPCS incorporates many methods of gathering data, oftentimes implementing a variety of methods together to create rich, contextual and multi-perspective analyses of physical culture. Such methods include ethnography, auto ethnography, contextual analysis, media analysis, discourse analysis and participant observation.\n\nNewman, J., James, J., Driscoll, M., Stokes, G., (2012) Center for Physical Cultural Studies (CPCS). The Florida State University: College of Education – Department of Sport Management\n\nAndrews, D., & Silk, M., (2011). Physical Cultural Studies: Engendering a Productive Dialogue. Sociology of Sport Journal 28: 1-3\n\nSilk, M., & Andrews, D., (2011). Toward a Physical Cultural Studies. Sociology of Sport Journal 28: 1-3\n\nResearch: Physical Cultural Studies (2012) University of Maryland: Kinesiology. Retrieved 08/10/12 from: http://www.sph.umd.edu/KNES/research/sportstud.html\n\nPCS at Bath (2012) University of Bath: Department of Education. Retrieved 08/10/12 from: http://www.bath.ac.uk/education/research/programmes/pcs/bath.html\n\nCentre for sport policy studies (2012) university of Toronto: Faculty of Kinesiology and Physical Education. Retrieved 08/10/12 from: http://www.physical.utoronto.ca/Centre_for_Sport_Policy_Studies.aspx\n\nThe H.J. Lutcher Stark Center for Physical Cultural Studies. Retrieved 08/10/12 from: http://www.starkcenter.org/\n\nBody, Movement and Culture Research Group (2012). University of Alberta: Faculty of Physical Education and Recreation. Retrieved 08/10/12 from: http://www.physedandrec.ualberta.ca/Research/LaboratoriesandResearchWorksho/BodyMovementandCultureResearch.aspx\n"}
{"id": "2074318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2074318", "title": "RailTel Corporation of India", "text": "RailTel Corporation of India\n\nRailTel Corporation of India Ltd. is a \"Miniratna\" (public sector) enterprise of Government of India focusing on providing broadband and VPN services. RailTel was formed in September 2000 with the objective of creating nationwide broadband, telecom and multimedia network, to modernise train control operation and safety system of Indian Railways. RailTel's network passes through around 5,000 stations across the country, covering all major commercial centres.\n\nThe Indian Railways (IR) was initially solely dependent on the Department of Telecom (now BSNL) for their control and administrative communication circuits. To increase circuit efficiency, the Railways began building up its own communication systems from early 1970s based on overhead telephone lines, quad cables and microwave signalling. In 1983, the Railway Reforms Committee decided to introduce optical fibre cable (OFC) based communications in IR to provide safety, reliability, availability and serviceability through use of a dedicated network. The decision was also taken to create a network independent of the DoT and replace the existing microwave telecom systems (60% of which had reached end of life) with OFC.\n\nIndian Railways commissioned the first OFC on the Churchgate–Virar line in Mumbai in 1988 for train operation and control purpose, which consisted of 60 km of network across 28 stations. The network was expanded in Central India with the commissioning of 900 km of OFC network in 1991–92 across Durg–Nagpur, Nagpur–Itarsi and Itarsi–Bhusaval sections of the Howrah–Nagpur–Mumbai line, and in Eastern India with the commissioning of 60 km of OFC network in Tatanagar–Chakradhrapur section of the same line.\n\nThe second National Telecom Policy in 1999 opened the National Long-Distance segment under favourable licensing conditions with revenue sharing to assist mobile network operators to spread their networks across India. In 2000, the Government announced the formation of a telecom corporation to build a nationwide broadband multimedia telecommunication network. RailTel was established in September 2000 as a Public Sector Undertaking (PSU), wholly owned by the Indian Railways.\n\nRailTel, in collaboration with Google, provides free WiFi access at selected railways stations across India. Google chose railway stations as the location to provide free WiFi because stations have access to reliable power supply and fibre provided by RailTel, and because the passengers at a station come from all demographics of India.\n\nThe free WiFi service was launched at Mumbai Central railway station in January 2016. In April 2016, the service was expanded to 9 more railway stations. In June 2016, Google announced that free Wi-Fi was available across 19 stations in India and was being used by over 1.5 million people. Google and RailTel plan to provide free WiFi at 100 railway stations across the country by the end of 2016.\n\nIn September 2016, Google announced a public WiFi initiative called Google Station. Google plans to expand free WiFi coverage under the initiative to locations such as cafes and malls across India, and later expand worldwide.\n\nIn June 2018, Google announced that it's Free Wi-Fi project is now powering 400 Indian railway stations. As a result, there are now more than 8 million people accessing the internet each month via the project.\n\nBased on its nationwide fibre network, RailTel offers various bandwidth intensive application to its customers. One such initiative is RailWire, a joint venture with MSOs to provide Voice, Video and Multimedia access on a single wire at a customer's home or office.\n\nRailTel has received the 12th National Awards for Excellence in Cost Management 2014.\n"}
{"id": "30983686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30983686", "title": "Reichsleiter Rosenberg Taskforce", "text": "Reichsleiter Rosenberg Taskforce\n\nThe Reichsleiter Rosenberg Taskforce ( or \"ERR\") was a Nazi Party organization dedicated to appropriating cultural property during the Second World War. It was led by the chief ideologue of the Nazi Party, Alfred Rosenberg, from within the NSDAP Office of Foreign Affairs (\"Außenpolitischen Amt der NSDAP\" or \"APA\"). Between 1940 and 1945, the ERR operated in France, the Benelux countries, Poland, the Baltic States, Greece, Italy and on the territory of the Soviet Union in the \"Reichskommissariat Ostland\" and \"Reichskommissariat Ukraine\". Much of the looted material was recovered by the Allies after the war, and returned to rightful owners, but there remains a substantial part that has been lost or remains with the Allied powers.\n\nThe ERR was initially a project of \"Hohe Schule der NSDAP\", a Nazi-oriented elite university, which was subordinate to Alfred Rosenberg. Rosenberg wanted it to be a research institute filled with cultural material on the opponents of the Nazi ideology. These included Jewish, Masonic, Communist and democratic organizations from throughout Germany and from the occupied countries. Plans to build monumental buildings for the University on the shores of Lake Chiemsee failed to materialize after the outbreak of World War II.\n\nShortly after the occupation of France the staff of the ERR joined the SS in the search for books, archival material, and huge stocks of artifacts that were in the possession of people of Jewish descent. Soon after the German Embassy in Paris and SS-\"Einsatzgruppen\" also began to steal the most valuable paintings from prominent national museums, galleries, and non-Jewish private collections. Rosenberg and his organization wanted to be involved in these art raids. He was able to get full authority from Adolf Hitler to be the only official art procurement organization acting in the occupied countries. For this reason, in a Führer Directive of 5 July 1940, Hitler authorized the ERR to confiscate:\n\n\nThe \"Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg\" was officially established in \"Office West\" in Paris and was divided into different functional departments. The ERR central administration was transferred to Berlin on 1 March 1941 where it became formal subdivision of the German Foreign Office.\n\nThe Nazis were so eager to acquire valuable masterpieces that art theft became the most important field of work of the ERR. In addition to art, many libraries were looted for the Institute for the Study of the Jewish Question in Frankfurt, but especially for the library of the \"Hohe Schule\". The operations staff had eight main regional task forces and five technical task forces (music, visual arts, history, libraries, churches). Raids connected with the ERR also plundered the belongings of people deported to Nazi concentration camps. Between April 1941 to July 1944, 29 convoys transported goods seized from Paris to Neuschwanstein Castle in Germany, the ERR's principal place of storage. Until 17 October 1944, as estimated by the ERR itself, 1,418,000 railway wagons containing books and works of art (as well as 427,000 tonnes by ship) were transitioned to Germany.\n\n\"More than two hundred libraries of Belarus, especially the state (now national) library, suffered irreparable damage during the occupation. An associate of the national library, T. Roshchina, calculated that 83 percent of the library’s collection was plundered and destroyed. After the war, some six hundred thousand volumes from the library were found in Germany, Poland and Czechoslovakia, and were subsequently returned. About one million books, however, including rare and old printed volumes, have still not been located.\"\n\n\"Day by day for 26 months, the Hitlerites systematically destroyed one of the most ancient Russian cities, Smolensk. The Soviet Prosecution has presented to the Tribunal a document as Document Number USSR-56, containing the report of the Extraordinary State Commission of the Soviet Union. I shall not quote this document; but I shall only refer to it and endeavor, in my own words, to emphasize the fundamental points of this document, dealing with the reported theme now. In Smolensk, the German fascist invaders plundered and destroyed the most valuable collections in the museums. They desecrated and burned down ancient monuments; they destroyed schools and institutes, libraries, and sanatoriums. The report also mentions the fact that in April 1943, the Germans needed rubble to pave the roads. For this purpose, they blew up the intermediate school. The Germans burned down all the libraries of the city and 22 schools; 646,000 volumes perished in the library fires.\"\n\nBy the middle of 1941, most of the ERR work in Belgium concentrated on small collections in Jewish homes. Larger operations involved the Jesuit convent in Enghien involved removing 200 crates of books and archives, and looting the École des Hautes Études in Ghent, which involved transporting 56 crates of books. \"Both institutions were considered outposts of French culture on Flemish soil and unfriendly to Nazism.\" The Jesuit collection was considered a treasure trove of information on the politics of Catholicism in Belgium, and of Catholic procedures to thwart the Germans. The Jesuit College in Leuven and the regional office in Brussels, for example, acted as a refuge for library materials.\n\n\"Libraries and archives sees as enemy and international were confiscated outright by the ERR, as indicated by the following three examples. The contents of the communist bookshop OBLA, Brussels, were sent to Racibórz, Poland. The records of the International Federation for Housing and Town Planning were confiscated and brought to Germany. A similar fate overtook the archives and library of the international Jesuit college at Enghien, which was called a \"Zentrale der anti-Deutschland speziell anti-National-Sozialistischen Information\" (\"Center for anti-German and anti-National Socialist Information\").\n\n\"The 700,000 volumes of the Charles University Library in Prague were stolen as a unit.\"\n\nA library was created in the Theresienstadt ghetto, about forty miles from Prague. Books were brought in by many of the people deported to this camp as part of their personal possessions, but also books from the collections of the Rabbinical Seminary Libraries of Berlin and Breslau, and the Jewish communities of Berlin and Vienna were also shipped there. Part of the German effort included having the prisoners translate and catalog many Hebrew books, to be added to the ERR \"Museum of the Extinct Race\" envisioned by Alfred Rosenberg. Almost 30,000 Hebrew and Judaica volumes had catalog cards created by the ghetto inmates.\n\nIn 1935, there were 17,148 public, school and university libraries in Czechoslovakia, having a book stock of 8,528,744 volumes. Many of these items were confiscated by the Germans, especially any Czech books dealing with geography, biography or history. Works by any Czech writers were taken away, many burned, most others taken directly to the paper pulp mills. Special libraries were devastated, and suffered a loss of about 2,000,000 volumes.\n\nGeorg Ebert, who was a member of Rosenberg’s \"Aussenpolitisches Amt\" (NSDAP Bureau for Foreign Affairs, also referred to as the APA), discovered that a Masonic grand lodge, the Grand Orient de France, had been abandoned in Paris. This was one of the most important Masonic grand lodge in Europe. Ebert personally guarded the building, with its library collection, museum and archives, until he could turn it over to the army. This was one point in the origin of the ERR, which eventually developed into a central headquarters in Berlin, with subsidiary offices (\"Hauptarbeitsgruppen\" (Main Work Groups) in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Belgrade, Riga and other cities.\n\n\"In January 1940, Hitler gave Rosenberg his task: to loot Jewish and Masonic cultural treasures, including synagogues, libraries, and archives in western Europe. By fall 1940, Hitler ordered Rosenberg to confiscate all Jewish art collections since these materials were now deemed \"ownerless\" by Nazi decree. Jews in France, as in most of Europe, were now labeled \"stateless\" and no longer had property rights. With France part of the German-occupied territories, the ERR and Rosenberg now fell under Hermann Göring's authority and control, with the Gestapo seeking out Jewish houses, apartments, and shops in the hopes of finding valuable pieces.\"\n\n\"Alfred Rosenberg reported to Hitler that his Einsatzstab had commenced confiscations in Paris by October 1940, with the assistance of the Service de Sûreté (S.D.) and the \"Police Secrète Militaire (Geheime Feldpolizei).\" The \"Sonderstab Bildende Kunst\" (Special Arts Staff), a section of the ERR, confiscated numerous Jewish art collections, often of international renown (for instance, the Rothschild collection). In the Netherlands, this Sonderstab did not seize much more than about a thousand works of art. The Sonderstab Musik, Kirchen, Osten, Bibliothekenaufbau der Hohen Schule und Rassenpolititische Fragen (Special Staffs for Music, Churches, the East, the High School Library and Race-political Questions) each fought for its own corner. By 1942, no fewer than 3,500 collections, libraries and archives had been ‘secured’ by the Hauptarbeitsgruppe Frankreich (Main Working Group, France) of the ERR- France having been divided into five districts.\n\nThe libraries of the Alliance Israélite Universelle (AIU) and the French Rabbinical Seminary (SIF) were high on the list of German locations to loot. The AIU had built a new library in 1937, including an eight story high tower and reading room, and boasting of 50,000 books. By March 1940, 647 crates of books had been removed from the AIU, and 243 crates of books from the SIF. A list by the ERR dated March 1941 indicated that 81 libraries had been looted in Paris alone, and a later supplemental list included another 30 libraries of Jewish, Masonic, socialist and émigré collections had been seized.\n\n\"These albums were created by the staff of the Third Reich’s Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg (ERR). This special unit was organized in the summer of 1940 under Reich Leader Alfred Rosenberg, initially to collect political material in occupied countries for exploitation in the \"struggle against Jewry and Freemasonry.\" The ERR established its base of operations in Paris in July 1940 and on November 5, Hermann Göring assigned the ERR the responsibility for the confiscation of \"ownerless\" Jewish art collections. On November 18 of that year, Adolf Hitler ordered that all confiscated works of art be brought to Germany and placed at his personal disposal.\n\nBefore the war, Paris was the world's largest and most important art market. This was where well-off French, European and American collectors bought and sold their best pieces. From the beginning of the century, Jewish \"marchands d'art\" had established themselves as the best art dealers and experts, resultantly shaping and influencing global taste. Dealers included: the Wildensteins, where Georges Wildenstein dealt in Old Masters; the Bernheim-Jeunes who specialized in Impressionists and post-Impressionists painters, and in 1901 had opened the first Van Gogh show; and Paul Rosenberg, the contracted dealer of Picasso and Braque.\n\nDuring the next several years, the ERR would be engaged in an extensive and elaborate art looting operation in France that was part of Hitler’s much larger premeditated plan to steal art treasures from conquered nations. Soon after the German occupation of France in 1940, the German military, and subsequently the ERR, focused their art confiscations on the world-renowned Jewish-owned art collections from families such as the Rothschilds, and the Veil-Picards, Alphonse Kann, and Jewish dealers such as the Seligmanns. According to the German ERR documents from 1944, the art seizures in France totaled 21,903 objects from 203 collections. There were 5,009 items confiscated from the Rothschild family collections, 2,687 items from the David-Weill collection, and 1,202 from Alphonse Kann’s collection. French officials, at the end of the war, estimated that one third of all art in French private hands had been confiscated.\n\nAll looted and confiscated art works were initially shipped by truck to the Galerie nationale du Jeu de Paume, where Nazi art historians, experts, photographers, maintenance and administrative personnel appraised, filed, photographed and packed the now decreed \"ownerless cultural goods\" for transport to Germany. The first shipment art works sent to Germany from Paris required 30 rail cars and consisted primarily of Rothschild paintings intended for the Führermuseum/European Museum of Art (EMoA) in Linz, Austria. Among the first fifty-three paintings shipped to Hitler was Vermeer’s Astronomer from the Édouard de Rothschild collection, today in the Musée du Louvre in Paris. As the ERR staff looted and catalogued the French collections, they created photograph albums specifically intended for the Reich Chancellery and Hitler in an effort to keep them apprised of their work in France, and more importantly, to provide a catalogue of items from which Hitler and his curators could choose art treasures for EMoA. A group of these photograph albums were presented to Hitler on the occasion of his birthday on 20 April 1943, by Alfred Rosenberg to \"send a ray of beauty and joy into [his] revered life.\" ERR staff stated that nearly 100 such volumes were created during the years of their art looting operation.\"\n\n\"The latest advice from authentic neutral sources said that the Gestapo had seized the libraries of all the Masonic organizations in France. The Bibliothèque Nationale (the French National Library) there upon put in a claim for these books, but the latest word was that the Germans declined to hand over them over, saying the material would be sent to Germany for purposes of study. The library of the Alliance Israelite in Paris, worth several million francs, also was said to have been seized and sent to Germany. From the Bibliothèque Nationale - one of the world’s leading libraries - the Germans were reported to have received an inventory of manuscripts, rare books and similar material that had been stored elsewhere in France for security during the war. German officials, according to the information received here, have been exercising close supervision over the French publishing industry. They have also taken over the Maison du Livre de Français, the most important French book exporting agency.\"\n\nSo called \"degenerate art\" was legally banned by the Nazis from entering Germany, and so once designated was held in what was called the Martyr's Room at the Jeu de Paume. Much of Paul Rosenberg's professional dealership and personal collection were so subsequently designated by the Nazis. Following Joseph Goebels earlier private decree to sell these degenerate works for foreign currency to fund the building of the Führermuseum and the wider war effort, Hermann Göring personally appointed a series of ERR approved dealers to liquidate these assets and then pass the funds to swell his personal art collection, including Hildebrand Gurlitt. With the looted degenerate art sold onwards via Switzerland, Rosenberg's collection was scattered across Europe. Today, some 70 of his paintings are missing, including: the large Picasso watercolor \"Naked Woman on the Beach\", painted in Provence in 1923; seven works by Matisse; and the \"Portrait of Gabrielle Diot\" by Degas.\n\nAfter the war, many of the books hidden by the Germans were collected by the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives section of the American military government, and collected at the Offenbach Depot. There, many of the larger collections were identified and eventually returned to their owners. By the end of 1948, \" ... the French regained the archives of the Paris bank of Rothschild Freres, the Libschutz Librairie de Paris, the library of the Alliance Israelite Universelle de Paris, the library of the Ecole Rabbinique de Paris, and the Biliothèque de Chinon.\"\n\nGreece was also visited by the ERR after the country’s fall in April 1941. A special unit headed by Dr. Johannes Pohl, chief of the Hebraica collection at the Frankfurt Institute’s library, appeared in Salonica, where he had Rosenberg agents seal the yeshiva collections, in which the city abounded. However, members of the community were able to hide or disguise many of the collections from the Germans. A later visit in September 1942 by a scholar named Maertsch, likewise resulted in no new additions to the Frankfurt library. However, a 1943 report does show that 10,000 volumes had been received from Greece.\n\nBefore the war, Greece was rich in libraries. The National Library, which included the Public and University libraries in Athens, contained more than 400,000 volumes. \"Reports reaching American authorities in Cairo have told of the pillaging of libraries, laboratories and workshops of the Universities of Athens and Salonika ... A large part of the University of Athens library is reported to be lost. The libraries of three American colleges were reported to have been used as fuel in the central heating system used by the Germans.\"\n\n\"The ERR were also active in the west. After the German occupations of Rome in 1943, ERR officers inspected the contents of the Roman Synagogue’s two great libraries, the Biblioteca della Comunità Israelitica and Collegio Rabbinico Italiano, which contained extraordinary collections gathered over the 2,000 year history of Jewish life in Rome. They demanded the libraries’ catalogs; just days before the first deportation of Roman Jews to Auschwitz, two specially ordered railcars destined for Alfred Rosenberg’s institute in Frankfurt were loaded with ten thousand books from these libraries.\"\n\n\"Two archaeological libraries, the Hertziana Library of History and Art, and the German Archaeological Institute’s library of the history, topography, art and customs of ancient Rome, were removed from Rome and taken to Germany by the Nazis. At the end of the war, the two library collections were discovered in two Austrian salt mines packed away in 1,985 wooden cases. The German Library’s collection was unharmed, but some of the Hertziana collection and the card catalog were damaged by water when part of the mine flooded. They were returned to Rome, where they became part of the Gallery of Modern Art, where both collections will be in the care of the new International Union for the study of Archaeology, Art and History in Rome.\"\n\nAfter the war, many of the major collections looted from Italy were identified by the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives service of the American military government and returned to their owners. The Collegio Rabbinico Italiano, the Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florenz, and the Deutsche Historische Bibliothek Rom were all returned, although not all were intact, to their owners in Italy. \"These last two collections were seized by Hitler with the idea of re-establishing them in Germany.\"\n\nIn Vilna (Vilnius, Vilno, Wilno, etc.) the ERR set up a collecting point for Lithuania. Dr. Gotthard of the Berlin headquarters arrived in August 1941, and began looting the Strashun library. He conscripted the labor of two Gestapo prisoners, including A.Y. Goldschmidt, librarian of the Hispanic-Ethnographic Society. Eventually, he committed suicide rather than assist the looting of the libraries. Dr. Johannes Pohl appeared in January 1942, and ordered that the city be made a collecting point for the region, and concentrated at the \"Yidisher Visenshaftlikker Institut\" (Institute for Jewish Research). Materials were brought in from the private collections from Kaunas, Šiauliai, Mariampolė, Volozhin and other towns, and included books from over 300 synagogues and personal libraries. Some of the Jewish workers were able to smuggle out and hide some of the most valuable books in the ghetto, which was stopped when the ghetto was liquidated in July 1943. The accumulated collection of over 100,000 volumes were separated into piles by century of publication, and about 20,000 were selected for shipment to Germany. The remaining materials were pulped to avoid storage and transportation costs, and to make a small profit. One incident involved an assistant of Dr. Pohl dumping out five cases of rare books in order to make room for an illegal shipment of hogs.\n\n\"The Einsatzstab Reichleiter Rosenberg (ERR), established by Rosenberg in 1939, was represented in the Netherlands by an Amsterdam office. In 1940, the ERR confiscated all property belonging to the Freemasons, among which was the famous Biblioteca Klossiana. This library had been bought by Prince Hendrik (1876–1934) (Duke Henry of Mecklenburg-Schwerin), husband of Queen Wilhemina (Wilhelmina of the Netherlands), and had been presented by him to the order of Freemasons. It contained important incunabula and books on the occult, which were not available anywhere else in the Netherlands. Other parts of the library and the order’s archive were of importance as well. The library of the International Institute for Social History in Amsterdam was closed, and the ERR took over the building for its offices. In July 1940 the institute’s very important collection of newspapers and the library of approximately 160,000 volumes were confiscated. German arguments over their final destination kept the materials in Amsterdam until the winter of 1944, when they were transported to Germany in eleven ships. The International Archives of the Women’s Movement, established in Amsterdam in 1935, lost its whole collection after the institute was closed by the Sicherheitspolizei (Security Police) in June 1940. In August 1942, 499 crates containing books and archives taken from, among others, Jewish antiquarian book dealers and theosophical societies were transported to Berlin.\"\n\nMost of the looted Jewish property, especially books, was sent to Rosenberg’s \"Institut zur Erforschung der Judenfrage\" in Frankfurt. Established in March 1941, the Institute served as the core research library for the planned Hohe Schule. Some of the other ERR research institutes that received looted books included the \"Institut für Biologie und Rassenlehre\" in Stuttgart, the \"Institut für Religionswissenschaft\", and the \"Institut für Deutsche Volkskunde\". In the Netherlands, where Seeligmann’s library was looted, the ERR enjoyed a monopoly on cultural property confiscation between 1940 and 1944. A particularly large number of books were seized, with an estimated value of thirty to forty million Reichsmarks. However, not all of those books were sent to the ERR’s research institutes. Certain collections, including Seeligmann’s, were sent to other Nazi agencies, such as the Reich Main Security Office (\"Reichssicherheitshauptamt\"; RSHA) in Berlin.\n\nThe RSHA was interested specifically in information about those they perceived to be the prime enemies of the state. Accordingly, the RSHA in Berlin received looted library and archival materials relating to \"enemies\" such as the Jews. The RSHA Office Seven (Amt VII), which specialized in ideological research, established a center for the evaluation of looted documents. By August 1943, it contained more than 500,000 catalogued volumes. Most of the Jewish materials collected by Amt VII related to Zionist groups, rescue agencies, communities, and cultural organizations. Materials pertaining to Jewish political, economic, cultural, and intellectual leaders were also collected. Seeligmann, who founded the Genootschap voor Joodsche Wetenschap in Nederland (Society for the Science of Judaism in the Netherlands) and served as president of the Dutch Zionist Organization, was of interest to the RSHA. By August 1943, his library became part of the Amt VII library and archive center.\n\nIn Norway, there were 150 school libraries and 50 public libraries that were destroyed by the Germans. Most of these libraries were in the province of Finnmark, where there was widespread destruction during the evacuation of the German Army forces. The Norwegians did not burn the German propaganda works that had filled their shelves when the original Norwegian books were removed. They will be kept for the study by future generations who will want to study the period of the German occupation.\n\n\" ... From the very beginning of the establishment of the Staatsbibliothek Krakau, special importance was given to materials related to the natural sciences, mathematics, geography and medicine. In the fiscal year 1940–1941, the amount of money spent on book purchases was surprisingly high.\" The Germans recognized the value of the scientific collection, and from 1941 through 1944, 35,599 books were borrowed by 2,621 patrons, mostly German civil servants and military personnel. Polish civilians were not allowed access to the library during the occupation. Gustav Abb, the German overseer of libraries, decided to send much of the reference collection to Germany in 1944. \"Abb decided to send the major part of the reference collection, as well as most of the books bought by the Staatsbibliothek to Germany (altogether about 25,000 volumes). [Polish] Librarians, charged with the task of filling boxes with books, tried to sabotage Abb’s orders. They hid a large number of books and stuffed boxes with old newspapers. Despite those heroic efforts to save the collection, the Germans were still able to send a great number of books to Adelsdorf (Adelin) in Silesia. Fortunately, after the war the library was able to recover most of the books that Abb had evacuated form the library.\" Later in the war, the main reading room was used as sleeping quarters for German soldiers, and other parts of the library were used as a hospital for Germans.\n\nFrom the Frankfurter Zeitung, Wochen-Ausgabe, 28 March 1941: \"For us it is a matter of special pride to destroy the Talmudic Academy which has been known as the greatest in Poland ... We threw out of the building the great Talmudic Library and carted it to market. There we set fire to the books. The fire lasted for twenty hours. The Jews of Lublin were assembled around and cried bitterly. The cries almost silenced us. Then we summoned a military band, and the joyful shouts of the soldiers silenced the sounds of Jewish cries.\"\n\nRosenberg commanded the \"Einsatzstab Reichleiter Rosenberg für die Besetzten Gebiete\" or \"ERR,\" that was responsible for collecting art, books and cultural objects from invaded countries, also returned their captured library collection back to Berlin during the retreat from Soviet Union. The ERR stands for \"Einsatzstab Reichleiter Rosenberg für die Besetzten Gebiete\" which means the \"Reich Leader Rosenberg Task Force for Occupied Territories.\" \"ERR dispatches note they had to abandon their offices before the removal of the materials on hand could be completed ‘due to lack of loading spaces’ and the fact that German artillery, located in the center of the city [Kiev], was firing continually over their heads. Still, they managed to send on both their paintings 9,279) and prehistoric materials, which had come from Kharkov, their own library and office furniture, and the materials collected by the Department of Seizures, amounting to some ten thousand books and nearly a hundred cases of Bolshevist paintings, documents and archives ... \"\n\nIn the note of Vaycheslav M. Molotov [sic: Vyacheslav Molotov], People’s Commissar for Foreign Affairs, dated 27 April 1942, presented before the International Military Tribunal, it was recorded that the Germans burned the library of 40,000 volumes belonging to one of the oldest agricultural libraries in the U.S.S.R., the Shatilov selection station in the Orel district. Also submitted to the International Military Tribunal was the statement following: \"There was no limit to the desecration of the Hitlerite vandals of the monuments and homes representing Ukrainian history, culture and art. Suffice to mention, as an example of the constant attempts to humiliate the national dignity of the Ukrainian people, that after plundering the Korolenko Library in Kharkov, the occupiers used the books as paving stones for the muddy street in order to facilitate the passage of motor vehicles.\"\n\n1941–1944 Soviet Union: As a result of the German invasion, heavy damage was done to Russian libraries. It has been estimated that more than 100 million books have been destroyed, mainly from public libraries.\n\n\"At Pskov, 1,026 church books were removed from the kremlin (fortress), including sixteenth- to eighteenth- century manuscripts and seventeenth century printed books. Nearly 35,000 volumes were removed from the Pskov pedagogical institute, including 25,000 works of Russian scholars. At Novgorod, the library of the historical museum which was \"displaced\", contained rare periodicals such as Russkaia rech’ of 1880 and Bibliograf of 1860. Books removed included editions of Voltaire of 1785 and Jean Jacques Rousseau of 1796. All in all, 35,000 volumes were removed. Unique editions of archaeology, including 51 books on the history of ancient Russia, were removed from the Novgorod library for the German professor Engel. Publications on ethnology were removed for Professor Thiele ... The above-mentioned Sonderkommando Künsberg was active in removing the czars’ libraries from the suburbs of Leningrad and the contents of museums and libraries from Rostov and Taganrog. In addition to the ERR, Künsberg’s clients were: the main branch of the Reich Security Agency; RSHA (Reichssicherheitshauptamt); the geographic service of the ministry of Foreign Affairs; the State Library; the Slavic Studies seminar; and the Hermann Göring economic library.\"\n\nHeinrich Himmler sent a secret message to the SS and \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (SD) units in order to ensure their cooperation with the main troops in the total destruction and devastation of the parts of the Ukraine to be evacuated: \"The aim to be achieved is that when the areas in the Ukraine are evacuated, not a human being, not a single head of cattle, not a hundredweight of cereals, and not a railway line remains behind; that not a house remains standing, not a mine exists that is not ruined for years to come, that there is no well left unpoisoned. The enemy must really find a land completely burnt and destroyed.\"\n\nIt is estimated that Nazi Germany looted three million books during the course of the war. Of these, more than one million were discovered by American forces at Hungen, Hesse, in May 1945. The books had been moved there from Frankfurt in early 1944 when Allied bombing of the city became threat to the collection and were subsequently moved back to the former Rothschild Library for cataloguing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8178676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8178676", "title": "Retired husband syndrome", "text": "Retired husband syndrome\n\nThe following are some of the common symptoms of RHS:\n\nThis syndrome was identified and coined by Nobuo Kurokawa and first appeared in a presentation of his to the Japanese Society of Psychosomatic Medicine in 1991. It is a condition where a woman begins to exhibit signs of physical illness and depression as her husband reaches, or approaches, retirement. \n\nKurokawa has theorized that RHS is a result of the fact that many of Japan's citizens who are reaching retirement age, 60, are members of the Baby Boomer generation of Japan. The members of this generation were expected to meet certain social requirements: that the man should be the breadwinner and work to support his family, and the woman was to be not only a homemaker but also to show a level of adoration for her salaryman husband as reward for his bringing in the money she used to look after their children and socialize with her friends.\n\nAs the husband's career as a salaryman can demand long hours away from home, both working and socializing with other salarymen and their bosses as is expected, a husband may leave home in the early hours of the morning and return home late at night. This could mean that a husband and wife may not interact extensively and when a husband retires both members of the couple can feel they are living together with someone who is a virtual stranger.\n\nThis can be a particularly stressful experience for the woman who, as society dictated in her youth, is expected to attend to her husband's every need and can find this a very large demand indeed. The stress this change in life style brings can lead not only to the above listed symptoms, but also to a level of resentment felt toward her husband. Some couples have been known to separate over RHS, however divorce is uncommon as it is not considered an acceptable option for that generation of Japanese. Also currently an ex-wife has no rights to a portion of her husband's pension should they divorce, and therefore may be unable to survive financially (though this was set to change in 2007). Despite this, the divorce rate among older Japanese couples has soared in recent decades, as more of the baby boomer population have retired, increasing by 26.5% in 10 years according to the health ministry. The number of divorces among couples married for 20 years or more hit 42,000 in 2004, double those recorded in 1985. Divorces among those married for more than 30 years quadrupled during the same period. In 2006, these figures were projected to rise further as more Japanese people were expected to retire in the subsequent five years than at any other point in Japanese history.\n\nSome women deal with RHS by focusing their energy on obsessions such as collecting teddy bears, or following a celebrity, which they say can help them psychologically. They may also ask their husbands to stay on at work past retirement age. Many wives do not tell their husbands what is happening and this can worsen the stress as their husbands may not understand or even realize their wives are RHS sufferers.\n\nMarco Bertoni and Giorgio Brunello of the University of Padova published a discussion paper in July 2014 based on empirical research in Japan.\n"}
{"id": "5329895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5329895", "title": "Si deus si dea", "text": "Si deus si dea\n\nSi deus si dea is an Archaic Latin phrase meaning \"whether god or goddess\". It was used to address a deity of unknown gender. It was also written \"sive deus sive dea\", \"sei deus sei dea\", or \"sive mas sive femina\" (\"whether male or female\").\n\nThe phrase can be found on several ancient monuments. Archaic Roman inscriptions such as this may have been written to protect the identity of the god if Rome were captured by an enemy. The construction was often used when invoking the god of a place (e.g., \"Be you god or goddess who reigns over Carthage, grant us...\"). Historian Edward Courtney claimed it was \"intended to cover all bases as an acknowledgement of the limitations of human knowledge about divine powers\".\n\nIn 1820, an altar was discovered on the Palatine Hill with an Old Latin inscription,\n\nwhich can be transliterated into the modern form as\n\nand translated as\n\nThe altar is regarded as a late Roman Republic restoration of an archaic original. In the nineteenth century it was misidentified as a famous altar to Aius Locutius. The real identity of the divinity cannot be known, as it does not specify whether it is a god or a goddess. The praetor Gaius Sextius C. f. Calvinus may have restored an earlier altar reading \"sei deo sei deivae\", or he may have been restoring an altar that had been left to decay, after the god or goddess to whom it had originally been dedicated was forgotten.\n\nClose to the site, four inscribed columns were found dating to the Julio-Claudian period. Column A (now missing) read \"Marspiter,\" or \"Father Mars\", in Archaic Latin. Column B reads \"Remureine,\" which possibly means \"In Memory of Remus.\" Column C reads \"anabestas,\" possibly referring to a goddess named Anabesta, or else to the Greek \"anabasio\" (\"to go up\"), interpreted as a reference to Remus' scaling of the Roman walls. Column D, the longest inscription, reads:\n\nLivy ascribed the institution of the fetiales to Ancus Marcius, and claimed that the \"ius fetiale\" came to Rome from the Aequicoli.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23097260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23097260", "title": "Supernature (song)", "text": "Supernature (song)\n\n\"Supernature\" is the title track of Cerrone's 1977 album, \"Supernature (Cerrone III)\". Along with the tracks \"Give Me Love\" and \"Love is Here\", the song reached number one on the US disco/dance charts early in 1978. The single crossed over to both the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, where it peaked at number 70, and the soul charts, where it peaked at number 72. In August 1978, it peaked at number 8 in the UK Singles Chart after heavy use in the first series of \"The Kenny Everett Video Show\". The lyrics were written by a young Lene Lovich, though she was not credited. The song has an environmental theme, imagining a future in which the use of artificial chemicals in agriculture has caused \"creatures down below\" to emerge and \"take their sweet revenge\" against mankind.\n\nIt was covered by Erasure in 1989, released with their single \"You Surround Me\". It was also covered by The Time Frequency in 1994 for their debut album, \"Dominator\". The band Goldfrapp named their third studio album after the song.\n\n J. Garraud & D. Tenaglia Mixes\n"}
{"id": "49545883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49545883", "title": "Synthetic immunology", "text": "Synthetic immunology\n\nSynthetic immunology is the rational design and construction of synthetic systems that perform complex immunological functions. Functions include using specific cell markers to target cells for destruction and or interfering with immune reactions. US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved immune system modulators include anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive agents, vaccines, therapeutic antibodies and Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists.\n\nThe discipline emerged after 2010 following the development of genome editing technology including TALENS and CRISPR. In 2015, one project created T-cells cells that became active only in the presence of a specific drug, allowing them to be turned on and off in situ. Another example is a T cell that targets only cells that display two separate markers.\n\nIn 2016, John Lin head of Pfizer's San Francisco biotech unit stated, “the immune system will be the most convenient vehicle for [engineered human cells], because they can move and migrate and play such important roles.”\n\nAdvances in systems biology support high-dimensional quantitative analysis of immune responses. Techniques include viral gene delivery, inducible gene expression, RNA-guided genome editing, and site-specific recombinases for applications related to biotechnology and cellular immunotherapy.\n\nResearchers are exploring the creation of 'smart' organisms such as bacteriophages and bacteria that can perform complex immunological tasks. Such strategies could produce organisms that perform multistep immune functions such as presenting antigen to and co-stimulating helper T cells in a specific manner, or providing integrated signals to B cells to induce affinity maturation and isotype switching during antibody production. Such engineered organisms have the potential be as safe and as inexpensive as probiotics but precise in carrying out targeted interventions.\n\nAntibody therapeutics and other 'biologics' have proven to be effective in treating a diseases from rheumatoid arthritis to cancer. However, such agents can cause unwanted anaphylactic or inflammatory reactions, are administered by injection and are expensive. Small molecules, in contrast, are generally inexpensive to produce, orally bioavailable and are rarely allergenic. Synthetic antibody-recruiting small molecules have been created that redirect natural antibodies to pathogens for destruction.\n\nDeletion of a single transcription factor enables mature B cells to transform into T cells via dedifferentiation and redifferentiation. Technologies that can control cell fate include strategies to induce pluripotent stem cell formation and using small molecules to induce stem cells to differentiate into specific cell types. Dedifferentiation could be used to turn autoimmune cells into inactive progenitors or to suppress rejection of transplanted organs.\n\nIn 2016 researchers transdifferentiated fibroblasts into induced neural stem cells. The team mixed the cells into an FDA-approved surgical glue that provided a physical support matrix. They administered the result to mice. Survival times increased from 160 to 220 percent, depending on the type of tumor.\n\nTherapeutic vaccines treat and immunize patients already infected with a given disease. Provenge is an adoptive cell-transfer therapy in which a patient's antigen-presenting target autologous prostate cancer tissue. Advances in chemical biology include synthetic molecules that modulate B cell activation, structurally complex carbohydrate tumor antigen and adjuvants synthesis, immunogenic chemotherapeutic agents and chemically homogeneous, synthetic vaccines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10381782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10381782", "title": "Tamada", "text": "Tamada\n\nA tamada () is a Georgian toastmaster at a Georgian \"supra\" (feast) or at a wedding, corresponding to the symposiarch at the Greek symposion or the thyle at the Anglo-Saxon sumbel.\n\nAt all supras regardless of size, there is a tamada, or toastmaster, one person who introduces each toast. Georgians like to say that the tamada is dictator of the table, but it would be more appropriate to compare him to a leader or even a teacher. Tamada traditionally ought to be eloquent, intelligent, smart, sharp−witted and quick−thinking, with a good sense of humor since very often some of the guests might try to compete with him on the toast making. At the Georgian table, a tamada is considered to help bridge the gap between past, present and future, toasting ancestors and descendants as well as the other guests at the table. A toast can be proposed only by a tamada; the rest are to develop the idea. Some toasts take a traditional form; for example, for some toasts all men have to stand up and drink wine in silence. In many cases, however, the guests vie to say something more original and emotional than the previous speaker, and the whole process grows into a sort of oratory contest.\n\nHistorically the tamada had more control over the table than he does today. For example, members of the supra were supposed to ask permission before leaving the table and the party. If they got the permission they could be toasted by the tamada and other members before leaving. If the first toast is to the tamada, it is proposed by someone else, generally by the host, who proposes the nomination of the tamada.\n\nIf the supra is very small, in someone's home with only a few guests, the role of tamada won't be specially assigned, but rather simply assumed by the head of the household. At very large occasions, such as wedding or funeral banquets, the tamada is chosen in advance by the family, who ask a relative or friend who is known to be a good tamada to lead the supra. At mid-size occasions, however, the people of the table themselves choose the tamada.\n\nThe choice depends on several factors. There may be a senior person at the table to whom the role naturally falls. In some groups there will be one man who regularly is the tamada because he enjoys it and is good at it. Sometimes groups of friends who gather frequently will rotate the responsibility of being tamada. In many cases, when it comes time to choose, one person — often the oldest member of the table — will propose a candidate for tamada by saying something like, “Kote should be our tamada, shouldn't he?”. Others express agreement and, if Kote raises no serious objections, the person who first suggested the choice raises his glass and proposes the first toast to the tamada – “Kotes Gaumarjos” (to Kote). The supra participants do the same. The newly toasted tamada initiates new toasts from then on.\n\nIt might be the case, however, that Kote doesn't want to be tamada. Perhaps he feels that the senior person is suggesting his name ought to be the tamada. Maybe he was tamada last night and has a hangover, or is driving and can't drink, or would like to leave the gathering early, or just doesn't like to be tamada. He would refuse the job, perhaps pleading some excuse. Then the people at the table propose someone else as tamada, who may be willing to take up tamada−hood and may not be, and so on, until someone at the table agrees to be tamada, and the first toast is drunk to him.\n\nIf the tamada has been chosen in advance by the family, the senior member of the family will initiate the drinking by proposing the first toast to the tamada directly, without any preceding discussion. Following the proposal of this first toast, each member of the supra toasts the tamada with a fixed phrase or two and drinks his glass. On this toast people drink quite quickly, almost in unison, and without any verbal elaboration on the theme of the toast. Some frequently heard phrases on this first toast include “Kotes Gaumarjos” (to Kote), where Kote is the name of the person who will be tamada, or “Kargad chaatarebinos es supra” (\"May he lead this supra well”, or “May he cause us to have a good time”).\n\nThere is only one common circumstance where the first toast is not to the tamada, and that concerns usually small, less formal supras where the host himself is tamada. In that case, the host simply assumes the role, as noted above, and proposes the first toast to a particular theme (discussed below).\n\nA good tamada is selected for his possession of a number of special qualities. First of all, a good tamada is one who is good with words, who speaks clearly and cleverly, who can say in an original way things which are heard over and over again at every supra. The best tamadas are extemporaneously poets.\n\nSecondly, a good tamada must be able to organize well, as he is almost entirely in charge of the entertainment. He has to decide which toasts to drink when, and how often to propose new toasts, so that a good rhythm is established. He has to orchestrate singing or dancing, if there is such, between stretches of toasting, so people stay attentive and entertained. This relates closely to a third quality of a good tamada: sensitivity. The tamada should have a good feel for the mood of the table and try to maintain a pleasant upbeat atmosphere in which all members are participating. The table should have a kind of unity, said one Georgian, which is the responsibility of the tamada. He should notice if certain members begin to pay less attention and draw them back, perhaps with a special toast or by making them “alaverdi”.\n\nHe should be able to sense how much people have drunk, and increase or decrease the pace of the toasting as needed. (In general, the pace of toasting is faster earlier in the evening and slows down once everyone reaches a certain level of inebriation.) Part of this includes recognizing when the guests are at the proper level of inebriation for him to propose more abstract or emotional toasts. If the tamada knows the people at the supra well, he will be able to tailor his toasts to the guests, encouraging them to have a good time.\n\nFourthly, a good tamada has to be somewhat forceful in order to get people to pay attention to the toasting and to get everyone to drink each toast. This gets harder as the evening wears on and some people would rather talk than toast. Last, but not at all least, a good tamada must also be a good drinker; the tamada is expected to empty his glass on each toast, but it is considered disgraceful for him to actually get drunk.\n\nBoth the tamada and the other guests are expected to propose a toast to every person at the Georgian table. Every speaker tries to distinguish the most interesting, original and praiseworthy features of a person toasted. The Georgians do not consider this flattery, but a way to encourage the good traits. They believe when a person is told that he is kind and honest he will find it difficult to do evil; when he is told he is generous he will try not to be greedy. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "39552119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39552119", "title": "The Entire History of You", "text": "The Entire History of You\n\n\"The Entire History of You\" is the third and final episode of the first series of British science fiction anthology series \"Black Mirror\". It was written by the creator of \"Peep Show\" and \"Fresh Meat\", Jesse Armstrong, making it the only episode of the series not written or co-written by creator and showrunner Charlie Brooker. It was directed by Brian Welsh, and first aired on Channel 4 on 18 December 2011.\n\nThe episode, set in an alternative reality where most people have \"grains\" recording everything they do, see, or hear, and allowing them to play back their memories in front of their eyes or on a screen, tells the story of Liam (Toby Kebbell), a man who starts suspecting that his wife Ffion (Jodie Whittaker) might have had an affair.\n\n\"The Entire History of You\" received positive reviews. In 2013, Robert Downey Jr. optioned the episode to potentially be made into a film by Warner Bros. and his own production company Team Downey.\n\nYoung lawyer Liam Foxwell (Toby Kebbell) leaves a work appraisal that he felt went poorly. He belongs to a portion of the society that has implanted a \"grain\" behind their ear, recording everything they see and hear. Using a remote, a user can perform a \"re-do\", playing back their memories directly to their eye or to a video monitor. While returning home, he repeatedly watches the re-do of the appraisal, and is troubled by a seemingly insincere phrase from his employer. \n\nLater that evening, Liam meets his wife Ffion (Jodie Whittaker) at a dinner party with friends and finds her talking to a man he does not recognise—Jonas (Tom Cullen). As the party continues, Liam becomes concerned that Ffion seems fond of Jonas, laughing at his crude jokes. When Liam and Ffion return home, he goads her into talking more about her history with Jonas. She admits that she used to be in a relationship with him before meeting Liam, who finds that Ffion's accounts regarding the length of their relationship are inconsistent, so he becomes paranoid. The conversation turns heated and they get into a fight. Eventually, Liam backs down and apologises to his wife. They proceed to have sex, both of them watching re-dos of previous and more intimate sexual encounters.\n\nAfterward, Liam leaves the bedroom and watches re-dos of the party to scrutinise Jonas' behaviour, while drinking heavily. By morning, when Ffion comes downstairs, Liam drunkenly demands more answers from her about Jonas. Ffion refuses to answer and returns to bed, while Liam leaves for Jonas' home and physically demands he erase memories of Ffion from his \"grain\" or he will forcefully remove it, which could lead to vision and brain damage. Jonas complies, relaying the erasure process on a video monitor. Liam returns home, but crashes his car drunkenly into a tree and passes out. Regaining consciousness, Liam replays the last few memories before the crash to figure out what happened, surprisingly discovering that Jonas had a memory of sex with Ffion about 18 months ago during Jonas' \"grain\" erasure, near the same time that she conceived her daughter, Jodie.\n\nHe angrily returns home and confronts Ffion about it. She admits she and Jonas had sex, after Liam had temporarily walked out after a fight, but they had used a condom and Liam must be Jodie's father. Liam demands she show him the re-do of the event to prove that, but Ffion claims she deleted it. Liam becomes more hostile, demanding she show him the blank space on the \"grain\" where she erased it. She reveals the re-do she had kept from 18 months ago and plays it, which verifies that they had unprotected sex and implies that Jonas is the father.\n\nSometime later, Liam walks around his empty house, watching re-dos of happier moments with Ffion and Jodie. Liam goes to his bathroom and uses a razor blade to cut out the \"grain\" from behind his ear, a flurry of memories flooding his consciousness before the screen cuts to black.\n\n\"The A.V. Club\" rated the episode an A-, concluding: \"[A]s a creepy, up-to-date parable that still tells a tale as old as time, 'The Entire History of You' is pretty outstanding. It builds to a climax the audience may well have predicted (Liam forces Ffion to show him her most recent encounter with Jonas), but we are smartly spared from seeing. Every time a character plays back something on their grain, their eyes glow dully as the images are accessed, giving them a demonic look. I'm sure that was an intentional decision.\" Den of Geek said: \"As is often the case in science fiction, 'The Entire History Of You' explores the pitfalls of future technology. Given our current appetite for sharing carefully selected chunks of our personal lives on the Internet, the idea of people in the future recording and sharing memories isn't too much of a stretch, and the way the episode depicts it is quite convincing, and extremely eerie.\" \"The Daily Telegraph\" gave the episode 3 out of 5 stars, and wrote: \"This was the least effective of the \"Black Mirror\" dramas, because the technological element wasn't so crucial to the trajectory of the story. Jealous people will always find ways to destroy their relationships without the recourse to memory databanks.\" \"Metro\" gave the episode an A, writing: \"Tonight's final episode of \"Black Mirror\" however left me sitting in front of an appropriately black screen with the expression of a man who has just witnessed the murder of an entire litter of kittens.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13857268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13857268", "title": "The Ice Limit", "text": "The Ice Limit\n\nThe Ice Limit is a techno-thriller novel by American authors Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. The book was published on July 18, 2000 by Grand Central Publishing.\n\nMeteorite hunter Nestor Masangkay arrives on Isla Desolación, an island near Cape Horn in Chile, tracking a possible meteorite. Using a tomographic scanner, Masangkay confirms that not only is there a meteorite present under the ground, but that it is incredibly massive. Excited, Masangkay digs down to unearth a small portion of the meteorite and is subsequently killed in a flash of light.\n\nSome months later, Masangkay's equipment is recovered by a Yaghan native and eventually makes its way to New York billionaire Palmer Lloyd, a collector of rare and exotic archaeological artifacts. Wanting the meteorite for his soon-to-be-opened museum, Lloyd hires Masangkay's former partner, Sam McFarlane, to confirm the meteorite's existence and assist in its recovery. He also hires Effective Engineering Solutions, Inc., a high-priced \"problem solving\" firm, to design a plan for the unprecedented task of recovering and transporting what has been confirmed by McFarlane to be the largest meteorite ever discovered.\n\nEli Glinn, the president of EES, puts together a comprehensive plan to effect the recovery, accounting for literally every complication he deems possible. To effect this plan he composes a team to augment Lloyd's personnel, notably including Rachel Amira, EES's brilliant yet grating mathematics expert, and Sally Britton, an out-of-work supertanker captain whose last ship crashed while she was drunk and on duty. Despite Britton's public image as a dangerous alcoholic, analysis by EES has led Glinn to peg her as professional, talented, and motivated never to fail again. After meeting her in person, Glinn finds himself becoming attracted to her.\n\nGlinn's expedition sets off for Cape Horn in a brand new oil supertanker, the \"Rolvaag\", retrofitted with various high tech equipment but disguised to appear as worn down, barely functional ship, traveling under the guise of a failing mining company searching for iron ore. Despite possessing a legitimate mining agreement to this effect, Glinn is forced to bribe local Chilean officials for access to Isla Desolación, falsely confessing that they are searching for gold in order to allay any further suspicions. Both of these actions are witnessed by Commandante Vallenar, a locally stationed Chilean Navy officer, who objects angrily but is powerless to stop the bribes from being accepted.\n\nOnce on Isla Desolación, operations start almost immediately. The body of Masangkay is recovered and analyzed by the expedition's doctor, who concludes that he was killed by a lightning strike; McFarlane attributes this to the meteorite acting as a lightning rod. Once properly examined, the meteorite is shown to be much smaller — and denser — than initially expected. However, when Glinn's crew attempts to lift the meteorite using hydraulic jacks the units fail, killing two members of the expedition. Tests McFarlane run on a sample of the meteorite reveal that the exterior of the meteorite is a single element, not an alloy, and has an approximate atomic number of 177. Though this explains why the jacks failed — the weight of the meteorite is somewhere in the area of 25,000 tons, more than double what was expected — it is also staggering scientific discovery: no known element has an atomic number anywhere near 177. McFarlane speculates that this element is part of the undiscovered elemental \"island of stability\", and further states that the meteorite could only have come from outside the solar system. During this time, McFarlane also becomes romantically involved with Amira.\n\nNow properly accounting for its weight, Glinn's crew is able to load the meteorite onto a massive cart which will move the meteorite to the \"Rolvaag\". That evening, Commandante Vallenar sends a member of his crew, Timmers, to investigate Glinn's excavation. Timmers infiltrates the dig site, kills a guard, and enters the area housing the meteorite. Surprised by what he discovers, Timmers reaches out to touch the meteorite and is fatally electrocuted. Though confused at first, the expedition eventually is able to piece together what happened, concluding that the meteorite discharges electricity on contact. Plans to move the meteorite continue, albeit much more carefully. At the same time, Commandante Vallenar positions himself off the coast of Isla Desolación to prevent the \"Rolvaag\" from leaving. Glinn meets with the Commandante in an attempt to secure safe passage, admitting that the expedition is there to recover a meteorite, but is rebuffed by Vallenar.\n\nThe next evening Glinn and his crew load the meteorite onto the ship under cover of fog, leaving lights and running equipment on Isla Desolación to serve as a distraction, then break for the open sea. When Commandante Vallenar fires on the \"Rolvaag\" and gives chase Glinn detonates two explosive devices surreptitiously placed on the Commandante's propellers during his visit, disabling the Chilean ship. This proves to be a temporary solution, as Vallenar's crew is able to replace one of the damaged propellers. By this time the \"Rolvaag\" is well on its way to international waters, and Glinn predicts that Vallenar will not pass the Chilean border (however, the doctrine of hot pursuit appears to allow this). When the Commandante continues pursuing them, Glinn belatedly realizes that Timmers must have been Vallenar's son; Vallenar has realized that Timmers is dead and intends to kill them out of vengeance. Captain Britton also notes that Vallenar's course has now cut them off from any chance of help. With no other choice, Glinn orders the ship to proceed south towards the Ice Limit, the border of Antarctic waters, where icebergs and even ice islands are common.\n\nDuring the \"Rolvaag\"'s flight the meteorite discharges again, though this time without anyone touching its surface. Eventually McFarlane and Amira figure out what causes the electrical discharges: contact with salt-containing liquids such as human sweat or ocean water. Meanwhile, Vallenar's ship closes on the \"Rolvaag\" over the course of several hours, getting into firing range just as the ship enters an area of icebergs. Though Captain Britton is able to avoid destruction by feigning the ship being in distress, eventually Vallenar inflicts enough damage to disable the ship completely. As his vessel closes between two ice islands to destroy the \"Rolvaag\", a team of Glinn's men detonate explosives on one of the towering icebergs, shearing off a massive chunk of ice which capsizes and sinks the Commandante's ship.\n\nThough no longer pursued by the Chilean Commandante, the \"Rolvaag\" is now dead in the water, and the nearest rescue vessel is unable to approach for several hours due to a storm in the area. The continuing rough seas begin to take their toll on the ship; eventually Captain Britton realizes that the meteorite is severely unbalancing the ship, and must be jettisoned to prevent the \"Rolvaag\" from being snapped in half. At first both Palmer Lloyd and Sam McFarlane object vehemently to the idea, but after some argument admit that it may be the only way to save the ship and themselves. Glinn prepares to activate the jettisoning system, but abruptly stops, declaring that he is certain the ship will survive. Attempts to convince him otherwise fail, and as he is the only person with access to the system the crew has no choice but to abandon ship. Glinn moves to the meteorite holding area, attempting to secure the meteorite, only to discover that most of the securing devices have failed. Undaunted, he continues his efforts until he is interrupted by Captain Britton, who begs him to leave the ship with her in a lifeboat, confessing, \"I could love you, Eli.\" Moments later the meteorite makes contact with the ocean, discharging a massive amount of electricity.\n\nMcFarlane, Amira, Lloyd, and the rest of the crew watch from the lifeboats as the \"Rolvaag\" snaps in half and sinks. The lifeboats are ill-prepared for the harsh Antarctic waters, and many of the crew start to suffer from hypothermia immediately. The survivors take refuge on an ice island, where they start to slowly succumb to the extreme conditions. Amira attempts to tell McFarlane something she concluded about the meteorite, giving him a CD containing the test data they collected, but before she can finish she dies. McFarlane begins to slip away as well, but before he can the crew is rescued by a helicopter.\n\nThree days later, Palmer Lloyd and the handful of survivors are recovering inside a British Antarctic science station. Sam McFarlane arrives in Lloyd's room and begins to tell him about Amira's attempts to tell him about her discovery. Though Lloyd refuses to engage him, McFarlane continues speaking, describing a series of small ocean floor earthquakes recorded at a specific Antarctic location, and then revealing that the \"Rolvaag\" sank at the same location. He finishes by saying that he has figured out what Amira wanted to say: that what they recovered was not a meteorite, it was a seed, and that it is now sprouting.\n\n\nAfter \"The Ice Limit\" was published, the authors posted an epilogue at their website. Written as a short collection of fictional newspaper articles, it describes the survivors of \"Ice Limit\" setting off onto a new expedition into the Antarctic regions, in order to face the consequences of their actions in the novel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5674687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5674687", "title": "The Long Hard Road Out of Hell", "text": "The Long Hard Road Out of Hell\n\nThe Long Hard Road Out of Hell is the autobiography of Marilyn Manson, leader of the American rock band of the same name. The book was released on February 14, 1998 and written with the help of Neil Strauss (of \"Rolling Stone\").\n\nThe book follows Manson's life from when he was a child, born as Brian Hugh Warner, until the events of the band's controversial Dead to the World Tour. It also details his grandfather's sexual fetishes' (including bestiality and sadomasochism) influence to the forming of Marilyn Manson and the Spooky Kids, to the recording of \"Antichrist Superstar\". Its last pages are the journal of the band's touring, documenting backstage events and people's reactions. The book includes many references to his life of drugs, sex and dysfunctional relationships which he attributes as causal to his current status quo. It also features his journalism works, including an article about a dominatrix he interviewed for \"25th Parallel\".\n\nThe autobiography goes in-depth into the break-ups amongst the band's history. It follows several members through becoming friends and musicians with the band to angry and sometimes bitter leavings, some band members detested being fired so badly that lawsuits have been filed against Manson by his own crew members.\n\nAlong with the book are numerous pictures, some of which are familiar to long-time Manson fans, with the center pages including everything from the Slasher Girls to Manson performing \"Antichrist Superstar\" with a Bible in his hand. The book incorporates illustrations from a public domain edition of \"Gray's Anatomy\", originally drawn by Henry Vandyke Carter. For example, the ribcage in the cover image (which also appears in the liner note artwork for \"Antichrist Superstar\") is taken from Gray's Figure 115. Also scattered throughout the pages are documents of such things as girlfriends, legal documents of claims made by the American Family Association about his shows that were proven to be false, and band landmarks, to the rarer, such as Manson with Anton Szandor LaVey.\n\nOn February 21, 1998, Manson held a two-hour in-store book signing at the San Francisco Virgin Megastore. The event was attended by an estimated 700 fans.\n"}
{"id": "20183765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20183765", "title": "The Mentoring Partnership of Southwestern Pennsylvania", "text": "The Mentoring Partnership of Southwestern Pennsylvania\n\nThe Mentoring Partnership of Southwestern Pennsylvania is a non-profit organization located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania that provides a variety of free services to local mentoring agencies and is the chief public advocate for mentoring in the region. It is one of almost three dozen mentoring partnerships across the country that is affiliated with MENTOR/National Mentoring Partnership but remains an administratively independent organization.\n\nThe Mentoring Partnership provides resources and training to individuals and organizations who are interested in starting new mentoring programs. These services include print materials, group trainings and individual meetings with Mentoring Partnership staff.\n\nIn addition to the services provided to new programs, the Mentoring Partnership offers their expertise to existing programs to help them diagnose the strengths and weaknesses of their program in order to improve mentor/mentee relationships and outcomes.\n\nThe Mentoring Partnership works to recruit volunteer mentors for their partner programs. The centerpiece is National Mentoring Month in January, during which The Mentoring Partnership partners with MENTOR to raise awareness about mentoring. Ongoing efforts include presentations to community organizations, businesses and universities as well as advertising and attracting media attention.\n\nResearch has shown that mentoring relationships are more productive when mentors receive training. The Mentoring Partnership offers free trainings to mentors who are at any of their partner programs. These include both basic pre-match training as well as more specialized ongoing trainings for mentors. \n\nThe Mentoring Partnership provides opportunities for mentoring programs' staff and volunteers to collaborate with and learn from each other. The primary conduit is monthly MLN (Mentoring Leadership Network) meetings, which are usually held on the second Tuesday of the month in Pittsburgh and the third Tuesday of the month in Beaver County.\n"}
{"id": "33746875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33746875", "title": "Western Literature Association", "text": "Western Literature Association\n\nFounded in 1965, the Western Literature Association (WLA) is a non-profit, scholarly association that promotes the study of the diverse literature and cultures of the North American West, past and present. Since its founding, the WLA has served to publish scholarship and promote work in the field; it has gathered together scholars, artists, environmentalists, and community leaders who value the West’s literary and cultural contributions to American and world cultures; it has recognized those who have made a major contribution to western literature and western studies; and it has fostered student learning and career advancement in education. \n\nThe Association for the Study of Literature and Environment (ASLE) was founded in 1992 at a special session of the Western Literature Association conference in Reno, Nevada, for the purpose of \"sharing of facts, ideas, and texts concerning the study of literature and the environment.\"\n\nThe Association publishes Western American Literature: A Journal of Literary, Cultural, and Place Studies (since 1965) in partnership with the University of Nebraska Press. It considers itself \"the leading peer-reviewed journal in the literary and cultural study of the North American West, defined broadly to include western Canada and northern Mexico\".\n\n"}
