{"id": "43324942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43324942", "title": "A.P. Williams Funeral Home", "text": "A.P. Williams Funeral Home\n\nA.P. Williams Funeral Home is a historic African-American funeral home located at Columbia, South Carolina. It was built between 1893 and 1911 as a single-family residence, and is a two-story frame building with a hipped roof with gables and a columned porch. At that time, it was one of six funeral homes that served black customers. Archie Preston Williams, II was a leader in the city's black community.\n\nIt was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "9153237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9153237", "title": "Abel of Reims", "text": "Abel of Reims\n\nAbel (\"fl\". 744–747) was a saint and suffragan bishop of Reims in Francia, modern-day France.\n\nIn the late 10th century, Folcuin wrote that Abel had been a monk of Lobbes Abbey when Bishop Ermino (d. 737) was abbot. Boniface, in a letter to a Mercian priest, states that Abel was born and raised in England, as were the other four bishops who previously addressed King Æthelbald by letter (see below). Folcuin, however, believed that Abel was Irish. Historian Wilhelm Levison has argued therefore that the monk must have been a different Folcuin, but Eugen Ewig accepts the identification. If Folcuin's late testimony has any basis in reality, it may be that Abel, like his near contemporary Ecgberht (d. 729), had once visited Ireland. St. Abel is one of the most well known saints in the world. He was commemorated as patron saint of the blind and lame.\n\nBoniface (d. 754) presided over the Council of Soissons in March 744. The conciliar acts record that Abel was elected archbishop of an unspecified see, as was a certain Hartbert. Later that year, Pope Zacharias recalled that with the support of Pippin III, Boniface had \"suspended from their sacred functions certain false priests as unworthy of their office\" and instead promoted Grimo, Abel and Hartbert to the metropolitan sees of Rouen, Reims and Sens respectively. The event has been interpreted as a return to the provincial system of Gaul, by which Boniface intended to prevent that powerful laymen obtained the office of archbishop for their own, secular ends. Milo (d. 762/3), for instance, who probably was a layman rather than a consecrated bishop, had held the sees of Trier and Reims since \"c\". 722.\n\nHowever, Abel's tenure of archiepiscopal office never appears to have been confirmed by papal authority. In June, Pope Zacharias gave his approval by sending Abel the pallium. He did the same for Hartbert, bishop of Sens, and Grimo, bishop of Rouen. In August, however, Boniface wrote again to request a pallium for Grimo alone, to which Zacharias replied asking why Hartbert and Grimo had not been included in his request.\n\nWhat followed is uncertain. The next time one hears of Abel is when he is named as one of Boniface's 'fellow bishops' who in \"c\". 746 sent a letter of exhortation to Æthelbald, king of Mercia. It would seem that Milo controlled the three sees, while Abel, Hartbert and Grimo remained in office only as suffragan bishops. In 751, Boniface once more addressed a letter to Pope Zacharias, in which he lamented the injustices of lay control over the church, but his erstwhile ambitions were never realised.\n\nIt is unknown when Abel gave up his position or died. The 9th-century \"Life\" of St Remigius, written by Hincmar, Archbishop of Rheims, claims that Milo had driven Abel from the see in favour of Tilpin, Abel's successor. The date given is 748, but it now appears that Tilpin succeeded in 762 or 763, when Milo died.\n\nIn the early modern period, Abel's name was inserted in a number of martyrologies, under a variety of dates. Examples are the 17th-century martyrology of Gabriel Bucelin, the \"Martyrologium Gallicanum\" (1637) of André du Saussay, and John Mabillon. The Bollandists include a \"Life\" of Abel under 5 August, compiled by John Pinius.\n\n"}
{"id": "25087680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25087680", "title": "Arthur Aaron (footballer)", "text": "Arthur Aaron (footballer)\n\nArthur Frederick Aaron (born 1885) was a footballer who played in the Football League for Stockport County. He is the first player in alphabetical order in Football League history.\n"}
{"id": "26744800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26744800", "title": "Avivore", "text": "Avivore\n\nAn avivore is a specialized predator of birds, with birds making up a large proportion of its diet. Such bird-eating animals come from a range of groups.\n\nBirds that are specialized predators of other birds include certain accipiters and falcons. General features of avian avivores include a skull form which is well adapted for grasping and crushing with the beak, although not especially well structured for neck twisting motions. Bird-eating raptors also tend to show greater sexual dimorphism than other raptors, with the females being larger than the males.\n\nSome avian avivores such as the shikra, besra, Eurasian sparrowhawk, and sharp-shinned hawk catch their prey by flying from cover in a tree or bush, taking their prey unawares. In contrast, the lanner falcon hunts in open country taking birds by horizontal pursuit. The aplomado falcon will use both ambush and more extended flights. The peregrine falcon dives on flying birds from a great height at speeds that can exceed 300 km/h.\n\nThe extinct Haast's eagle of New Zealand preyed on the large flightless bird species of the region such as the moa.\n\nIn certain biotopes, birds constitute the bulk of the diet of various carnivorans, e.g., of adult leopard seals that mostly prey on penguins, the Arctic fox living in coastal areas where colonies of murres, auks, gulls and other seabirds abound and stoats in New Zealand against whom flightless birds like the takahē and kiwi are defenseless. Other avivore mammals who occasionally prey on birds include most carnivora; a number of primates ranging from lorises and night monkeys over baboons and chimpanzees to humans; orcas; opossums and other marsupials; rats and other rodents; hedgehogs and other insectivora and bats.\n\nA number of mammal species are specialized predators of birds. The caracal and the serval, both medium-sized cats, are known for their leaping ability which they use to catch flying birds, sometimes two at a time. Domestic cats may at times become specialists as bird-killers if other prey is unavailable. Some carnivora, including the red fox and martens, are known for engaging in surplus killing of birds. Kruuk (1972) observed that four red foxes killed 230 black-headed gulls in one night in a single colony at the Cumberland coast while fewer than 3% of the gulls showed any sign of being eaten. The greater noctule bat is believed to predate small migrating birds on the wing in the skies of Southern Europe.\n\nMany mammals, such as squirrels, monkeys, and pine martens, also feed on bird eggs and young when they get the chance.\n\nThe egg-eating snake specializes in eating birds eggs, swallowing them whole and then breaking them using a protrusion from its spine.\n\nThe fanged frog \"Limnonectes megastomias\" preys on birds and insects.\n\nThe Goliath birdeater (\"Theraphosa blondi\") was named by explorers who saw it eating a hummingbird.\n"}
{"id": "56075062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56075062", "title": "Capital and income breeding", "text": "Capital and income breeding\n\nCapital breeding and income breeding refer to the methods by which some organisms time breeding and use resources to finance breeding. In the models, capital breeders breed when they reach a threshold condition, which decreases throughout the breeding season. However, the original definition of a capital breeder has changed, with the more recent definition being organisms that use energy stores built up before reproduction to breed. This is in comparison to income breeders, who breed after certain levels, which do not change, of increase in condition are reached and who use energy gained during breeding to finance reproduction. Income breeders who are growing especially fast hold off the development of their offspring after a threshold is reached so they can produce more offspring, although this does not occur in slower growing income breeders. An organism can be both a capital and an income breeder; the parasitoid \"Eupelmus vuilletti\", for example, is an income breeder in terms of sugars, but a capital breeder in terms of lipids. A different example of the interaction between capital and income breeding is found in \"Vipera aspis\"; although these snakes are capital breeders, they lay larger litters when food is abundant, which is a characteristic of income breeders.\n\nThe dichotomy between income and capital breeders was introduced in 1980 by R. H. Drent and S. Daan to explain why birds usually laid their eggs later than the time that would maximize nestling survival for the population.\n\nEctotherms are generally capital breeders, whereas endotherms rely on income breeding more often. This difference is likely due to the difference in maintenance costs, and thus in the energy that can be allocated to stores.\n\nIn organisms that breed multiple times and live in places where food availability and mortality change significantly on the basis of season, it is predicted that capital breeding will be more prevalent, as the time when the organism is not breeding but when conditions are still favourable will be dedicated to rebuilding stores, therefore allowing them to achieve higher rates of reproduction. Capital breeding also increases with size (at least in organisms with optimal storage and indeterminate growth), as the energy dedicated to growth gives less and less return, thus meaning that energy dedicated to storage will have more return compared to that dedicated to growth. But, in eastern grey kangaroos, capital breeding is used during times of food scarcity, whereas income breeding is used during times of normal food availability. Income breeding, on the other hand, will generally be favoured in non-seasonal environments, as holding off breeding will not increase the chances that the offspring will survive. In addition, high or unpredictable demands during reproduction, which would cause the energy needed to exceed the energy provided by an income breeding strategy, may encourage capital breeding. Similarly, the possibility of decreased agility or increased conspicuity associated with, for example, egg-carrying could increase predation on reproducing individuals, making a strategy based on capital breeding more favourable, so as to avoid having to forage while reproducing.\n\nThis model does not hold for organisms that have a feeding season right after the breeding season. Copepods, for example, have their breeding season just before the feeding season, and are primarily divided into mainly capital or mainly income breeders on the basis of geography.\n\nEndotherms have a higher level of energy that needs to be dedicated to maintenance, thus explaining their increased reliance on income breeding.\nThe terms capital breeding and income breeding originated to explain why most individuals lay after the time when nestlings are most likely to survive. Both systems fit with the optimal time of laying for low-quality and high-quality individuals. High-quality individuals may choose to hold off laying until another egg is produced, as the decrease in the likelihood of survival for each egg is compensated by the additional egg. This is the opposite in low-quality individuals, in which the time to make an extra egg decreases the survival of each egg to the point where an additional egg cannot compensate for this loss.\nThe reliance of capital and income breeding in pinnipeds primarily depends on the availability of food, with more food favouring an increased reliance on capital breeding. This is because increase food availability allows for the accumulation of capital, which allows for a species to use capital breeding, which is more efficient as there are less energetic costs associated with it. Increased seasonality is another factor in capital versus income breeding, with higher seasonality associated with an increased reliance on income breeding, for the reasons discussed previously. Increased unpredictability also affects a pinnipeds reliance on capital breeding; less predictability increase reliance on capital breeding, as a species can use its accumulated stores to breed when there is less food available, whereas an income breeder cannot.\n\nEctotherms are generally capital breeders, likely because of the fact that they have a lower level of body maintenance, meaning that more energy can be converted to body stores.\nCopepods generally have their reproduction strategy influenced by geography, with those at higher latitudes usually being capital breeders, and those in waters closer to the equator conforming to the income breeding strategy. This is because more temperate waters allow for a longer feeding season, which allows for multiple generations in income breeders (who reproduce during the feeding season), whereas colder seas with shorter feeding seasons favour capital breeders, who are not as much affected compared to income breeders by having to get their offspring to maturity before the feeding season ends. The length of the feeding season also selects for size in these organisms; income breeders are as small as possible so they can take advantage of having multiple generations per breeding season, in contrast with capital breeders, which are as large as possible so as to catch the most food to put into their reserves.\n"}
{"id": "20355828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20355828", "title": "Cat gap", "text": "Cat gap\n\nThe cat gap is a period in the fossil record of approximately 25 to 18.5 million years ago in which there are few fossils of cats or cat-like species found in North America. The cause of the \"cat gap\" is disputed, but may have been caused by changes in the climate (global cooling), changes in the habitat and environmental ecosystem, the increasingly hypercarnivorous trend of the cats (especially the nimravids), volcanic activity, evolutionary changes in dental morphology of the Canidae species present in North America, or a periodicity of extinctions called van der Hammen cycles.\n\nAll modern carnivorans, including cats, evolved from miacoids, which existed from approximately 66 to 33 million years ago. There were other earlier cat-like species but \"Proailurus\" (meaning \"before the cat\"; also called \"Leman's Dawn Cat\"), which appeared about 30 million years ago, is generally considered the first \"true cat\". \n\nThe increase in disparity through the early Miocene occurs during a time when few feliform fossils have been found in North America. The hypercarnivorous nimravid feliforms were extinct in North America after 26 Ma and felids did not arrive in North America until the Middle Miocene with the appearance of \"Pseudaelurus\". \"Pseudaelurus\" crossed over to North America by way of the Bering land bridge from surviving populations in Asia 18.5 million years ago. All modern-day cats are descended from \"Pseudaelurus\".\n\nNimravids and barbourofelids were saber-toothed cat-like animals of the families Nimravidae and Barbourofelidae, respectively. Although not \"true cats\" of the family Felidae, they are closely related to felids. The Nimravidae are either basal feliforms or a sister group to both feliforms and caniforms, while the Barbourofelidae are a sister group to the Felidae. Physically, some Nimravidae and Barbourofelidae resembled the saber-toothed cat \"Smilodon\", which would not appear until many millions of years later. Nimravidae also became extinct in North America during the \"cat gap\".\n\nThe history of carnivorous mammals is characterized by a series of rise-and-fall patterns of diversification, in which declining clades are replaced by phylogenetically distinct but functionally similar clades. Over the past 50 million years, successive clades of small and large carnivorous mammals diversified and then declined to extinction. In most instances, the cause of the decline was energetic constraints and pervasive selection for larger size (Cope's rule) that lead to hypercarnivory dietary specialization. Hypercarnivory leads to increased vulnerability to extinction.\n\nThe nimravids were large cat-like animals that occupied this ecomorphic niche in the ecosystem until 26 Ma. It is highly likely that their hypercarnivory led to their extinction in North America. After the extinction of the nimravids there were no other feliform or felid-like species until other felids arrived from Eurasia after crossing the Bering land bridge 18.5 million years ago. During this time there was great diversity among the other carnivorous mammals in North America – both hypocarnivorous and hypercarnivorous species – and other hypercarnivorous species existed before, during, and after the cat gap.\n\nAnother possible explanation for the extinction of feliforms in North America is changes in the ecology of the continent. Evidence from the geologic temperature record shows that the earth was experiencing a period of global cooling, causing forests to give way to savannas. Climatic changes to arid conditions that muted variation at about 25.8 Ma coincides with the first appearance of hoglike creodonts and of pocket gophers, and this also is the beginning of the \"cat gap\" and the \"entelodont gap\", a period of some 7 million years when there were no nimravids, felids, or entelodonts in North America. Faunal overturn at 25.8 Ma is the basis for division of the Arikareean time period (30.5–19 Ma), and the Arikareen NALMA (North American Land-Mammal Ages), into the Monroecreekian period (29.5–25.8 Ma), and then the Harrisonian period (25.8–23.5 Ma).\n\nVolcanic activity has also been promoted as a possible cause of the cat gap as well as other extinctions during this time period. The La Garita Caldera is a large volcanic caldera located in the San Juan Mountains in southwestern Colorado, United States, and is one of a number of calderas that formed during a massive ignimbrite flare-up in Colorado, Utah, and Nevada during the Oligocene Epoch. The La Garita Caldera was the site of the Fish Canyon eruption, an enormous eruption about 27 million years ago. The scale of the Fish Canyon eruption was far beyond anything known in human history (erupting more than for a VEI 8+ magnitude), and was possibly the most energetic event on Earth since the Chicxulub impact, which is thought by many paleontologists to have caused the extinction of the dinosaurs in the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. The resulting explosive volcanism probably ejected large amounts of dust and debris into the stratosphere causing major cooling (see volcanic winter). Climatic effects could also have been caused by sulphur ejected into the stratosphere, which rapidly converts to sulphuric acid, an aerosol which cools the troposphere by blocking incoming solar radiation.\n\nAnother possible cause of the cat gap could have been the Late Cenozoic Ice Age that began 33.9 million years ago. This ice age caused glaciation in Antarctica that eventually spread to Arctic regions of southern Alaska, Greenland, and Iceland. Glaciers on the North American continent, as well as the cooling trend, could have made the ecosystem uninhabitable for feliformia cat-like species, although habitable for cold-weather caniformia species such as canids (dog-like species), mustelids (weasel-like species), and ursids (bear-like species).\n\nIt has been suggested by some that as a result of the cat gap caniforms (dog-like species including canids, bears, weasels, and other related taxa) evolved to fill more carnivorous and hypercarnivorous ecological niches that would otherwise have been filled by cats. This conclusion, however, is disputed.\n\nHowever, other paleontologists take issue with this conclusions:\n"}
{"id": "35628360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35628360", "title": "CernySmith Assessment", "text": "CernySmith Assessment\n\nThe CernySmith Assessment (CSA) is a comprehensive online questionnaire developed by Leonard J. Cerny II and David S. Smith that inquires about the impact of change and stress on productivity and resilience. This self-discovery assessment for personal growth, coaching, mentoring, and counseling helps answer three basic questions: 1) How am I doing? 2) What can I learn from how I am doing? and 3) What can I do about it?\n\nThe CernySmith Assessment consists of 68 objective questions and 10 subjective write-in questions that measure and describe the impact of change and stress as it relates to the adjustment and well-being of people in their own culture or living and working cross-culturally. The assessment is online and is designed for people 14 years and older. The testing is self-managed, automated, and takes about 15 minutes to complete. After completion, the results are immediately generated for download in a personalized report. The self-discovery and coaching reports use nonjudgmental language and provide a balanced perspective of both strengths and challenges. The assessment includes strategies and tips on how to enhance transitions and adjustments.\n\nThe CSA provides a current stress-skills snapshot of adjustment during change and transition experiences. For overseas employees and/or family members, this assessment can be taken pre-field as a way to create baseline data that can be compared to any later CSA taken on-field/post-field. On-field and post-field assessments can be used for skill development tracking and re-entry assessing. It can be used once to assess adjustment, periodically (quarterly, annually), or whenever desired. It can also be used in debriefing settings including personal stresses, family stresses, and team stresses.\n\nThe assessment is available in 6 versions.\nCSA Reports come in three versions: The CSA-Brief, the CSA-Feedback, and the CSA-Team.\n\nThe CSA-Brief is a concise 6 page, self-discovery and coaching report.\n\nThe CSA-Feedback is a detailed 10 page report that provides personalized analysis of results for self-discovery and/or coaching by a certified CSA coach (mentor or counselor). The CSA-Feedback Report, when combined with performance based coaching can identify strengths and challenges and recommend practical steps in order to maximize performance and manage stress.\n\nThe CSA-Team (CSA-TR) is a 14-page report for teams and groups generated from 10 or more individualized reports. It can be used by companies, teams, and organizations to track company HR trends and progress. It provides data for analyzing group characteristics, tracking the impact of organizational policies, and assessing training needs.\n\nThe CSA measures stress on 15 scales within 5 broad areas of adjustment: Organizational, Cultural, Relational, Resilience, and Foundational.\nIn 1995, psychologist Leonard Cerny II saw the need to assess the stress and well-being of international teams in regards to their intercultural adjustment and attrition problems. Consulting with psychologist Kelly O'Donnell, Cerny developed a pilot 100 item Likert assessment in a conceptual format parallel to the Symptom Checklist 90 (SCL-90). The pilot questionnaire was called the CHOPS 100 and was made available to the missionary and humanitarian coaching community. For the next 5 years, improvements were made on the basis of coaching and clinical observations.\n\nIn 2000, Leonard Cerny II and David Smith submitted the assessment to international norming research and renamed it the CernySmith Adjustment Index (CSAI). The revised assessment later became known as the CernySmith Assessment (CSA).\n\nStarting in 2000 Cerny and Smith researched and normed the CHOPS 100 with major changes in item content and wording. They randomized the items and then developed four sector-oriented 100 item assessment versions of the CSAI: Business/Corporate (BC), Civil/Government (CG), Humanitarian/Relief (HR), and Military (M).[4]\n\nFrom February 2003 to August 2004, a total of 1,133 expatriates participated in the validation of the assessment. The average age was 42 with the range encompassing ages 13 through 77. Collectively, participants lived and worked in 130 different countries representing 46 different passport countries.[4]\n\nEmily Hervey of Regent University provided additional validity support for the CSA in her 2009 research focused on the cultural transitions and the adjustment to college of Third Culture students.[6] In 2010 Kathryn Rosenbush of George Washington University found the CSA to be a comprehensive measure of intercultural adjustment researching the impact of balanced family communication styles on the intercultural adjustment of employee families from a major multi-national corporation.[7] She and Maria Cseh of George Washington University published results of the study in Human Resource Development International (2012).\n\nKeith Edwards of Rosemead Graduate School of Biola University along with Kathryn Rosenbush of Townsend University and Carley Dodd of Abilene Christian University conducted a 2014 analysis of CSA data. Following is the abstract from their yet unpublished research article titled Development of CSA Expatriate Adjustment Measures. The manuscript is in the submission process for peer review and publication. The abstract reads:\n\n\"This study reports a psychometric analysis of the CernySmithTM Adjustment Survey (CSA) developed for use with expatriate workers and family members. The CSA was designed to measure expatriate worker adjustment on 20 scales in 5 content domains (Organizational, Cultural, Relational, Resilience, and Foundational). The present study reports a revision of the CSA based on data from 1,133 employees of non-profit and business organizations in 130 host countries from 46 passport countries. The analyses were conducted in 3 phases. First, uni-dimensionality of each a priori content scale was established using Principle Components Analyses. Then, Cronbach’s alpha reliability coefficients were calculated for each scale. Second, Principle Components Analyses were conducted to examine the discriminate validity of the scale items within each of the 5 domains. Finally, a second-order principle components analysis of the 15 scales scores identified 3 broad domains of adjustment identified as Work Management, Relationship Management, and Self-Management. The content and psychometric structure of the CSA are discussed in light of the three primary scales of expatriate employee adjustment identified by Black et al. (1991) and the four couple and spouse adjustment scales identified by Brown (2008). The authors suggest that the CSA has the potential of increasing the robustness of expatriate adjustment assessment (Hippler et al., 2014) with the addition of the resilience (well-being, past stresses, and focus) and personal foundation (spirituality, health, and habits) domains.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1481836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1481836", "title": "Daniel Freeman", "text": "Daniel Freeman\n\nDaniel Freeman (April 26, 1826 – December 30, 1908) was an American homesteader and Civil War veteran. He was recognized as the first person to file a claim under the Homestead Act of 1862.\n\nFreeman was also the plaintiff in a landmark separation of church and state decision.\n\nFreeman was born in Preble County, Ohio, but was raised in Genesee County, New York, and Knox County, Illinois. While a young man, his family moved frequently, living in Iowa and Illinois and settling in Beatrice, Nebraska Territory. He was a graduate of a medical institute in Cincinnati, Ohio; and practiced medicine in Ottawa, Illinois. He enlisted in the 17th Illinois Volunteer Infantry Regiment during the Civil War.\n\nOn May 20, 1862, President Abraham Lincoln signed the Homestead Act. This gave adults of land if they filed paperwork and paid a small fee. The homesteader was required to build a 12x14 dwelling and farm the land for five years, or plant trees. \n\nAlthough the land was cheap or free, many homesteaders did not last five years due to the blizzards, drought, disease, plagues of locusts, and loneliness on the open prairies. January 1, 1863, was the day the Homestead Act went into effect. Freeman may have been a scouter for the Union Army, and said that he was leaving for St. Louis the morning of January 1, 1863, for military duty. Freeman convinced a clerk to open the land office just after midnight so he could file his claim.\n\nWhen five years was up, the homesteader had to have two or three witnesses sign a document called \"Proof Required Under Homestead Acts May 20, 1862 . . . \" Daniel Freeman had his neighbors, Joseph Graff and Samuel Kilpatrick, sign this first document.\n\nFreeman married Elizabeth Wilber, who may have died in 1861, though some sources indicate that they divorced. They had three children.\n\nDaniel Freeman proposed marriage by mail to Agnes Suiter of LeClaire, Iowa, and married her on February 8, 1865, in her parents' home. Agnes had been engaged to Daniel's younger brother, James, until he was killed in the Civil War. Daniel and Agnes had eight children, seven of whom survived to adulthood. Agnes lived on the Beatrice, Nebraska, homestead until her death in 1931.\n\nIn addition to homesteading his claim, Freeman also worked as a physician, and served as county coroner and county sheriff. During the period in which the Freemans lived on the homestead, several structures were built, including a log cabin, a brick house and several frame houses. None of these structures survives today. In 1936, the Freeman homestead was recognized by Congress as the first homestead in the country and designated as Homestead National Monument of America. It is now maintained by the National Park Service.\n\nFreeman was also the plaintiff in \"Daniel Freeman v. John Scheve, et al.\", a landmark case concerning the separation of church and state. In 1899, Edith Beecher, the teacher at the nearby Freeman School, was giving religious instruction, including reading passages from the Bible, offering prayers, and leading hymns. (It is not known if this school was named after Daniel Freeman or for Thomas Freeman, an unrelated brick maker and president of the local school board.) Freeman requested that Beecher stop, and she refused, claiming that she had permission from the school board. Freeman then took his complaint to the school board, which backed Beecher.\n\nFreeman then filed suit in Gage County District Court, which found in favor of the school board. Freeman appealed, finally going to the Nebraska Supreme Court, which found that the actions of Beecher and the school board were unconstitutional under the Nebraska Constitution provisions (Art. I-4) concerning the separation of church and state.\n\nThe Freeman school, a one-room brick and wood school house, continued to be used until 1967. It has been renovated and is now open to the public. It is located about a quarter of a mile from the national monument.\n\n"}
{"id": "59168504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59168504", "title": "Developmental bias", "text": "Developmental bias\n\nIn evolutionary biology, Developmental bias refers to the production against or towards certain ontogenetic trajectories which ultimately influence the direction and outcome of evolutionary change by affecting the rates, magnitudes, directions and limits of trait evolution. Historically, the term was synonymized with developmental constraint, however, the latter has been more recently interpreted as referring solely to the negative role of development in evolution.\n\nIn modern evolutionary biology, the idea of developmental bias is embedded into a current of thought called \"Structuralism\" (also “internalism” or “variational structuralism”) focused on the role of the organism as a \"causal\" force of evolutionary change. In the Structuralist view, phenotypic evolution is the result of the action of natural selection on previously ‘filtered’ variation during the course of ontogeny. It contrasts with the \"Functionalist\" (also “adaptationist”, “pan-selectionist” or “externalist”) view in which phenotypic evolution result only from the interaction between the deterministic action of natural selection and variation caused by mutation.\n\nThe rationale behind the role of the organism, or more specifically the embryo, as a causal force in evolution and for the existence of bias is as follows: The traditional, neo-Darwinian, approach to explain the process behind evolutionary change is natural selection acting upon heritable variation caused by genetic mutations. However, natural selection acts on phenotypes and mutation does not in itself produce phenotypic variation, thus, there is a conceptual gap regarding the connection between a mutation and the potential change in phenotype. For a mutation to readily alter a phenotype, and hence be visible to natural selection, it has to modify the ontogenetic trajectory, a process referred to as \"developmental reprogramming\". Some kinds of reprogramming are more likely to occur than others given the nature of the genotype-phenotype map, which determines the propensity of a system to vary in a particular direction, thus, creating a bias. In other words, the underlying architecture of the developmental systems influences the kinds of possible phenotypic outcomes. \n\nHowever, developmental bias can evolve through natural selection, and both processes simultaneously influence phenotypic evolution. For example, developmental bias can affect the rate or path to an adaptive peak (high-fitness phenotype), and conversely, strong directional selection can modify the developmental bias to increase the phenotypic variation in the direction of selection. Thus, both currents of thought are complementary and should be combined to better understand the processes underlying evolutionary change.\nDevelopmental constraint\n\nDevelopmental constraints refer to the limitations on phenotypic variability (or absence of variation) caused by the inherent structure and dynamics of the developmental system. Constraints are a bias against a certain ontogenetic trajectory, and consequently are thought to limit adaptive evolution.\n\nDevelopmental drive\n\nDevelopmental drive refers to the inherent natural tendencies of organisms and their ontogenetic trajectories to change in a particular direction (i.e. a bias towards a certain ontogenetic trajectory). This type of bias is thought to facilitate adaptive evolution by aligning phenotypic variability with the direction of selection.\n\nThe morphospace is a quantitative representation of phenotypes in a multidimensional space, where each dimension corresponds to a trait. The phenotype of each organism or species is then represented as a point in that space that summarizes the combination of values or states at each particular trait. This approach is used to study the evolution of realized phenotypes compared to those that are theoretically possible but inexistent.\n\nDescribing and understanding the drivers of the distribution of phenotypic variation in nature is one of the main goals in evolutionary biology. One way to study the distribution of phenotypic variation is through depicting the volume of the morphospace occupied by a set of organisms or species. Theoretically, there can exist a natural process that generates an almost-evenly (quasi stochastic) distributed pattern of phenotypes in the morphospace, regarding that new species necessary tend to occupy a point in the morphospace that is close to those of its phylogenetic relatives. However, it is now widely acknowledged that organisms are not evenly distributed along the morphospace, i.e. isotropic variation, but instead are nonrandomly distributed, i.e. anisotropic variation. In other words, there exists a discordance between the apparent (or theoretical) possible phenotypes and their actual accessibility.\n\nThus, some phenotypes are inaccessible (or impossible) due to the underlying architecture of the developmental trajectory, while others are accessible (or possible). However, of the possible phenotypes, some are ‘easier’ or more probable to occur than others. For example, a phenotype such as the classical figure of a dragon (i.e. a giant reptile-like creature with two pairs of limbs and an anterior pair of wings) may be \"impossible\" because in vertebrates the fore-limbs and the anterior pair of wings are homologous characters (e.g. birds and bats), and, thus, are mutually exclusive. On the other hand, if two phenotypes are possible (and equally fit), but one form of reprogramming requires only one mutation while the other requires two or more, the former will be more likely to occur (assuming that genetic mutations occur randomly).\n\nAn important distinction between structuralism and functionalism regards primarily with the interpretation of the causes of the empty regions in the morphospace (that is, the inexistent phenotypes): Under the functionalist view, empty spaces correspond to phenotypes that are both ontogenetically possible and equally probable but are eliminated by natural selection due to their low fitness. In contrast, under the structuralist view, empty spaces correspond to ontogenetically impossible or improbable phenotypes, thus, implying a bias in the types of phenotypes that can be produced assuming equal amounts of variation (genetic mutations) in both models.\n\nIn a classical natural example of bias it was shown that only a small proportion of all possible snail shell shapes was realized in nature and actual species were confined to discrete regions of the shell-morphospace rather than being continuously distributed. In another natural example, it was shown that soil-dwelling centipedes have an enormous variation in the number of pairs of legs, the lowest being 27 and the highest 191 pairs; however, there are no species with an even number of leg pairs, which suggests that either these phenotypes are somehow restricted during development or that there is a developmental drive into odd numbers. Conversely, developmental abnormalities (or teratologies) have also been used as a classic example to understand the logic behind the mechanisms that produce variation. For example, in a wide range of animals, from fish to humans, two-headed organisms are much more common than three-headed organisms; similarly, Siamese twins theoretically could ‘fuse’ through any region in the body but the fusion occurs more frequently in the abdominal region. This trend was referred to as \"transpecific parallelism\", suggesting the existence of profound historical rules governing the expression of abnormal forms in distantly related species.\n\nIntegration or covariation among traits during development has been suggested to constrain phenotypic evolution to certain regions of the morphospace and limit adaptive evolution. These allometric changes are widespread in nature and can account for a wide variety of realized morphologies and subsequent ecological and physiological changes. Under this approach, phenotype is seen as an integrated system where each trait develops and evolves in concert with the other traits, and thus, a change in one trait affects the interacting parts in a correlated manner. The correlation between traits is a consequence of the architecture of the genotype-phenotype map, particularly the pleiotropic effects of underlying genes. This correlated change between traits can be measured and analyzed through a phenotypic variance-covariance matrix (P-matrix) which summarizes the dimensions of phenotypic variability and the main axis of variation.\n\nQuantitative genetics is a statistical framework mainly concerned with modeling the evolution of continuous characters . Under this framework, correlation between traits could be the result of two processes: 1) natural selection acting simultaneously on several traits ensuring that they are inherited together (i.e. linkage disequilibrium), or 2) natural selection acting on one trait causing correlated change in other traits due to pleiotropic effects of genes. For a set of traits, the equation that describe the variance among traits is the multivariate breeder’s equation Δz = β x G, where Δz is the vector of differences in trait means, β is a vector of selection coefficients, and G is a matrix of the additive genetic variance and covariance between traits. Thus, a population’s immediate ability to respond to selection is determined by the G-matrix, in which the variance is a function of standing genetic variation, and the covariance arises from pleiotropy and linkage disequilibrium. Although the G-matrix is one of the most relevant parameters to study evolvability, the mutational matrix (M-matrix), also known as the distribution of mutational effects, has been shown to be of equivalent importance. The M-matrix describes the potential effects of new mutations on the existing genetic variances and covariances, and these effects will depend on the epistatic and pleiotropic interactions of the underlying genes. In other words, the M-matrix determines the G-matrix, and thus, the response to selection of a population. Similarly to the P-matrix, the G-matrix describes the main axis of variation.\nA general consequence of the P-matrices and G-matrices is that evolution will tend to follow the ‘path of least resistance’. In other words, if the main axis of variation is aligned with the direction of selection, covariation (genetic or phenotypic) will facilitate the rate of adaptive evolution; however, if the main axis of variation is orthogonal to the direction of selection, covariation will constrain the rate of adaptive evolution. In general, for a population under the influence of a single fitness optimum, the rate of morphological divergence (from an ancestral to a new phenotype or between pairs of species) is inversely proportional to the angle formed by the main axis of variation and the direction of selection, causing a curved trajectory through the morphospace.\n\nFrom the P-matrix for a set of characters, two broadly important measures of the propensity of variation can be extracted: 1) Respondability: ability of a developmental system to change in any direction, and 2) Evolvability: ability of a developmental system to change in the direction of natural selection. In the latter, the main axis of phenotypic variation is aligned with the direction of selection. Similarly, from the G-matrix, the most important parameter that describes the propensity of variation is the lead eigenvector of G (g), which describes the direction of greatest additive genetic variance for a set of continuous traits within populations. For a population undergoing directional selection, g will bias the main direction of the trajectory.\n\nGRNs are modular, multilayered, and semi-hierarchically systems of genes and their products: each transcription factor provides multiple inputs to other genes, creating a complex array of interactions, and information regarding the timing, place and amount of gene expression generally flows from few high-level control genes through multiple intermediate genes to peripheral gene batteries that ultimately determine the fate of each cell. This type of architecture implies that high-level control genes tend to be more pleiotropic affecting multiple downstream genes, whereas intermediate and peripheral genes tend to have moderate to low pleiotropic effects, respectively.\n\nIn general, it is expected that newly arisen mutations with higher dominance and fewer pleiotropic and epistatic effects are more likely to be targets of evolution, thus, the hierarchical architecture of developmental pathways may bias the genetic basis of evolutionary change. For instance, genes within GRNs with “optimally pleiotropic” effects, that is, genes that have the most widespread effect on the trait under selection but few effects on other traits, are expected to accumulate a higher proportion of mutations that cause evolutionary change. These \"strategically-positioned\" genes have the potential to filter random genetic variation and translate it to nonrandom functionally integrated phenotypes, making adaptive variants effectively accessible to selection, and, thus, many of the mutations contributing to phenotypic evolution may be concentrated in these genes.\n\nThe genotype-phenotype map perspective establishes that the way in which genotypic variation can be mapped to phenotypic variation is critical for the ability of a system to evolve. The prevalence of neutral mutations in nature implies that biological systems have more genotypes than phenotypes, and a consequence of this ‘many-to-few’ relationship between genotype and phenotype is the existence of \"neutral networks\". In development, neutral networks are clusters of GRNs that differ in only one interaction between two nodes (e.g. replacing transcription with suppression) and yet produce the same phenotypic outcome. In this sense, an individual phenotype within a population could be mapped to several equivalent GRNs, that together constitute a neutral network. Conversely, a GRN that differs in one interaction and causes a different phenotype is considered non-neutral. Given this architecture, the probability of mutating from one phenotype to another will depend on the number of neutral-neighbors relative to non-neutral neighbors for a particular GRN, and thus, phenotypic change will be influenced by the position of a GRN within the network and will be biased towards changes that require few mutations to reach a neighboring non-neutral GRN.\n"}
{"id": "418075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418075", "title": "Digital organism", "text": "Digital organism\n\nA digital organism is a self-replicating computer program that mutates and evolves. Digital organisms are used as a tool to study the dynamics of Darwinian evolution, and to test or verify specific hypotheses or mathematical models of evolution. The study of digital organisms is closely related to the area of artificial life.\n\nDigital organisms can be traced back to the game Darwin, developed in 1961 at Bell Labs, in which computer programs had to compete with each other by trying to stop others from executing . A similar implementation that followed this was the game Core War. In Core War, it turned out that one of the winning strategies was to replicate as fast as possible, which deprived the opponent of all computational resources. Programs in the Core War game were also able to mutate themselves and each other by overwriting instructions in the simulated \"memory\" in which the game took place. This allowed competing programs to embed damaging instructions in each other that caused errors (terminating the process that read it), \"enslaved processes\" (making an enemy program work for you), or even change strategies mid-game and heal themselves.\n\nSteen Rasmussen at Los Alamos National Laboratory took the idea from Core War one step further in his core world system by introducing a genetic algorithm that automatically wrote programs. However, Rasmussen did not observe the evolution of complex and stable programs. It turned out that the programming language in which core world programs were written was very brittle, and more often than not mutations would completely destroy the functionality of a program.\n\nThe first to solve the issue of program brittleness was Thomas S. Ray with his Tierra system, which was similar to core world. Ray made some key changes to the programming language such that mutations were much less likely to destroy a program. With these modifications, he observed for the first time computer programs that did indeed evolve in a meaningful and complex way.\n\nLater, Chris Adami, Titus Brown, and Charles Ofria started developing their Avida system, which was inspired by Tierra but again had some crucial differences. In Tierra, all programs lived in the same address space and could potentially overwrite or otherwise interfere with each other. In Avida, on the other hand, each program lives in its own address space. Because of this modification, experiments with Avida became much cleaner and easier to interpret than those with Tierra. With Avida, digital organism research has begun to be accepted as a valid contribution to evolutionary biology by a growing number of evolutionary biologists. Evolutionary biologist Richard Lenski of Michigan State University has used Avida extensively in his work. Lenski, Adami, and their colleagues have published in journals such as \"Nature\" and the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" (USA).\n\nIn 1996, Andy Pargellis created a Tierra-like system called \"Amoeba\" that evolved self-replication from a randomly seeded initial condition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25404369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25404369", "title": "Disappearance of Susan Powell", "text": "Disappearance of Susan Powell\n\nSusan Cox Powell (October 16, 1981 - December 6, 2009) was an American missing person from West Valley City, Utah. Her disappearance and presumed murder, as well as the subsequent investigation and events garnered significant media attention.\n\nOn December 14, 2009, Susan's husband, Joshua \"Josh\" Powell, was named a person of interest in the investigation into her disappearance. However, Joshua was never charged; on February 5, 2012, Joshua killed himself and the couple's two young sons, Charles Joshua Powell (b. January 19, 2005) and Braden Timothy Powell (b. January 2, 2007) in a murder–suicide after custody of the boys had been awarded to Susan's parents, Charles and Judy Cox.\n\nOn May 21, 2013, West Valley City police closed their active investigation into Susan's disappearance, stating that they believed Joshua murdered her and that his brother Michael had assisted him in concealing her body. Since then, there are ongoing calls to have Susan legally declared dead.\n\nSusan Cox married Joshua Powell (b. January 20, 1976) at the Portland Oregon Temple of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in April 2001. They relocated to West Valley City, Utah, a suburb of Salt Lake City, in 2004. Joshua had a bachelor's degree in business and worked for a number of different companies over the years, while Susan, a trained cosmetologist, took up a job with Wells Fargo Investments after the family's relocation.\n\nSusan's emails to her friends indicated the presence of marital discord. Friends attributed these problems both to financial stress brought upon by Joshua's extravagant spending habits and to his \"very, very controlling\" behavior towards Susan. Joshua filed for bankruptcy in 2007, declaring over $200,000 in debts. By 2008, Susan was expressing fears and frustrations about her marriage to friends. She recorded a video in July 2008, surveying property damage she attributed to Joshua and wrote a secret will that included the statements, \"I want it documented that there is extreme turmoil in our marriage\" and, \"If I die, it may not be an accident, even if it looks like one.\"\n\nThe morning of December 6, 2009, Susan and her two sons, Charles (4) and Braden (2), attended church services at the Hunter 36th Ward. A neighbor visited them at home in the afternoon, leaving about 5:00 p.m.\n\nAt first, the entire Powell family were reported missing on December 7 by relatives. Joshua's mother Terrica and sister Jennifer Graves went looking for the family at their house shortly after being informed that the children had not been dropped off at daycare that morning. They called the police when they failed to make contact with Joshua and Susan. The police broke into the house, fearing that they might be victims of carbon monoxide poisoning. They found no one inside, but noticed two fans blowing on a wet spot on a carpet in the house. Susan did not show up at her job on December 7; her purse, cell phone, and car were all found at the house.\n\nLater that day, at about 5:00 p.m., Joshua returned home with the two boys and was taken to the police station for questioning. He claimed he had left Susan sleeping at home shortly after midnight on December 7, and had taken his boys on a camping trip to Simpson Springs in western Utah. Police visited Simpson Springs on December 10, but found no evidence of the campsite that Joshua had described.\n\nUpon searching the Powell residence on December 9, investigators found traces of Susan's blood on the floor, life insurance policies on Susan for , and a handwritten letter from Susan expressing fear for her life. DNA test results, released in 2013, matched one blood sample with Susan, while another sample was determined to have come from an \"unknown male contributor\".\n\nIn August 2012, West Valley City police released documents showing that Joshua took actions that were regarded as highly suspicious following her disappearance. He \"did not appear to be concerned about [Susan's] welfare\" when first questioned by police; liquidated her retirement accounts; cancelled her regularly scheduled chiropractic sessions; withdrew his children from daycare; and spoke to coworkers about how to hide a body in an abandoned mineshaft in the western Utah desert.\n\nPolice interviewed the family's eldest son, Charlie, who confirmed that the camping trip Joshua described took place; however, unlike his father, he stated that Susan had gone with them and she did not return. Weeks after her disappearance, a teacher reported that Charlie had claimed that his mother was dead. Furthermore, Susan's parents claimed that, while at daycare several months after the disappearance, Braden drew a picture of a van with three people in it, and told carers that \"Mommy was in the trunk\".\n\nInvestigators informed the media that they planned to question Joshua again, and subpoenaed all footage and interviews (aired and unaired) of Joshua from local television stations. On December 14, Joshua retained an attorney in connection with the investigation, and police said that he grew increasingly uncooperative. A few days later, he took his sons to his hometown of Puyallup, Washington, to stay with his father Steven for the holidays. By December 24, Joshua was considered a person of interest in the investigation. On January 6, he returned with his brother Michael to pack the family's belongings, indicating he was moving permanently to Puyallup.\n\nIn January 2010, Joshua moved to Puyallup, where he occupied a home with his two sons, his father Steven, his brothers Michael and Jonathan, and his sister, Alina. Joshua indicated that he would rent out his house in Utah. It was reported that he returned to Puyallup after he had lost his job.\n\nSoon afterwards, the website SusanPowell.org was established. Described as \"the official website of Susan Powell,\" the site's anonymous entries defended Joshua as the victim of a smear campaign by Susan's family, his sister Jennifer, and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Additional posts also speculated that Susan's disappearance was connected to that of Steven Koecher, a \"Salt Lake Tribune\" journalist who vanished the same week as Susan, and that the two had run off to Brazil together. Joshua and Steven were widely believed to have written these posts. In late 2010, both men claimed that Susan had abandoned her family due to mental illness and that she had left with another man. Susan's family rejected these claims as being \"unsupported\" by any evidence.\n\nInvestigators' scrutiny extended to Joshua's father, Steven \"Steve\" Powell, upon learning that he had been obsessively infatuated with his son's wife. Computer images seized from Steven's house in 2010 turned up 4,500 images of Susan taken without her knowledge, including close-ups of specific body parts. One of her friends asserted that her move to Utah was motivated by a desire to avoid Steven's advances, which included love songs posted online under a pseudonym. After Susan's disappearance, the friend reported Steven's apparent obsession with Susan to the police.\n\nOn September 14, 2011, Utah authorities discovered a possible gravesite while searching Topaz Mountain, a desert area near Nephi that Joshua had frequented as a campsite. There were signs of recent soil disturbance and shoveling, but after digging a few feet down, police were unable to find any remains, in spite of careful sifting of the soil. Federal anthropologists also ruled out the possibility of the site being an ancient burial ground. Police continued to examine the site for a time, but offered no explanation as to why they previously announced the finding of remains when none had actually been confirmed. Authorities said they were following a scent detected by their sniffer dogs.\n\nRelationships between and within the Powell and Cox families became increasingly hostile. After a police raid in their home in 2011, both Joshua and Steven spoke to major news outlets regarding journals that Susan had allegedly written about the relationship between Steven and herself. Steven claimed that he and Susan had been falling in love prior to her disappearance, and he cited the content of the journals (written when Susan was a teenager) as evidence to support his theory that she was mentally unstable and could have run away with another man. A judge issued a permanent injunction forbidding Joshua and Steven from publishing any material from Susan's journals, ordering the pair to either return or destroy any journals already published.\n\nOn September 22, Steven was arrested on charges of voyeurism and child pornography after police found evidence that he had secretly videotaped numerous women and young girls, including Susan. John Long, assistant Attorney General for Washington State, said that Joshua was a \"subject\" in the child porn investigation. A friend of Steven claimed that he was preoccupied with pornography and \"was hung up on [Susan] sexually\". Charles \"Chuck\" Cox, Susan's father, filed for custody of her children the day after Steven was arrested. A Washington court eventually granted Cox temporary custody of the boys. The court ruled that Joshua would have to move out of his father's home if he wanted to regain custody, so he rented a house in Graham, Washington. However, authorities later alleged that he had never actually moved into that house, merely making it appear as if he had satisfied the court's instructions while continuing to reside at his father's home.\n\nIn late September 2011, Joshua's sister Jennifer stated that she believed Joshua was \"responsible for his wife Susan Powell's disappearance\". His other sister Alina had also been suspicious of him as well; however, she later withdrew her suspicions and felt that Joshua had been unduly harassed by the investigation. By this time, West Valley City had spent more than half a million dollars on the case. On September 28, Mayor Mike Winder indicated that he felt that the case was worth the expense, stating, \"We feel that we are getting to that tipping point where we have more hot evidence than we have had in the past two years\", and that the case was moving forward.\n\nIn late 2011, Joshua underwent a series of court-ordered evaluations in Washington. While the evaluations by James Manley determined that Joshua had adequate parenting skills, a steady employment history and no criminal record or history of domestic violence, they also raised issues concerning the ongoing criminal investigations, Joshua's failure to admit normal personal shortcomings, his overbearing behavior with his sons, and his persistent defensiveness and paranoia (attributed to the police and media attention in conjunction with underlying narcissistic traits). The initial recommendation was for Joshua to have visitation with his sons several times a week, supervised by a social worker.\n\nIn the last week of January 2012, Utah police discovered about 400 images of simulated child pornography, bestiality and incest on Joshua's computer. The images, while not illegal due to their being in a hand-drawn, or cartoonish 3-D format, were cause for \"great concern\" to Manley, particularly given Joshua's earlier denial of possessing any such material. Joshua was recommended to receive a more thorough psychosexual evaluation and polygraph test, but Manley suggested no change in the visitation schedule with the Powell boys. Meanwhile, Michael established a Google Sites page which claimed that Susan's parents were abusing and neglecting the boys in collusion with child welfare authorities, and that West Valley Utah police had both mishandled the investigation into Susan's disappearance and were harassing Joshua. Lawyers for the Cox family disputed the allegations, and Google removed the site after a few days due to terms of use violations.\n\nOn February 5, 2012, a social worker called 9-1-1 after bringing Charlie and Braden to a supervised visit at Joshua's house in South Hill, Washington. The woman, who was supposed to monitor the visit between Joshua and the boys, said he grabbed them and would not let her in the door. Soon thereafter, the house exploded, killing Joshua and the two children. Local authorities treated the case as a double murder-suicide, saying that the act appeared to have been deliberate.\n\nWhen authorities notified Steven, who was in jail, he \"didn't seem very upset by the news, but was angry towards authorities who notified him\". Two weeks later, Steven invoked his Fifth Amendment right not to answer questions about the Susan Powell case. Cox and others have stated they believe that Steven knows what actually happened to Susan. Steven was convicted of voyeurism charges in May 2012 in a trial which largely skirted the issue of Susan's case.\n\nAfter a relatively brief investigation, officials confirmed that the explosion had been deliberately planned. The official cause of death for Joshua and the two boys was determined to be carbon monoxide poisoning, though the coroner also noted that both children had significant chopping injuries on the head and neck. A hatchet was recovered near Joshua's body, indicating that he had attacked the boys with it before being overwhelmed by smoke and fumes. The fire investigation also found two five-gallon cans of gasoline on the premises, as well as evidence that gasoline had been spread throughout the house.\n\nFriends and relatives of Joshua told authorities that he had contacted them by email minutes before the incident to say goodbye. Some of them, including his pastor, received instructions about finding his money and shutting off his utilities. Records also showed that he had withdrawn $7,000 from his bank account and had donated his children's toys and books to local charities the day before the incident. Joshua named Michael as the main beneficiary of his life insurance policy.\n\nCharles and Braden are buried at Woodbine Cemetery, which also contains a memorial for their mother. Joshua's remains were cremated.\n\nOn February 11, 2013, approximately one year after the death of Joshua and his sons, Michael took his own life in Minneapolis, Minnesota, where he had moved for graduate school. He jumped from the roof of a parking garage. Police had questioned Michael several times in 2012 after discovering – two years after the fact – that he had abandoned his car in a junkyard in Oregon several weeks after Susan's disappearance; Michael was \"evasive\" about the incident. Utah authorities have since said they believe that Joshua and Michael were accomplices in the murder of Susan.\n\nIn a February 2013 interview, Manley, who had conducted the 2011-2012 evaluations of Joshua for Washington authorities, expressed suspicion that he was possibly involved in his wife's disappearance. However, he did not mention these suspicions in his report because they were beyond the scope of his duties and because Joshua had not been charged with any wrongdoing.\n\nOn May 21, 2013, West Valley City police announced that they had closed the active investigation into Susan's disappearance. Shortly after, a handwritten will assumed to have been written by Susan was found in a safety deposit box. It contained the line: \"If I die, it may not be an accident, even if it looks like one,\" and instructed the reader not to show her husband the will. A video also surfaced of Susan surveying her home and documenting property damage she attributed to Joshua.\n\nJoshua's sister Jennifer and co-author Emily Clawson wrote a memoir about the Powell family's tumultuous history. The memoir was published in June 2013 as \"A Light In Dark Places\". Jennifer was inspired to write the book, she says, \"to help other people to recognize abuse in either their own relationships or relationships around them, because it's not always completely apparent.\"\n\nIn March 2015, Cox won a protracted court battle over the control of Susan's estate. Joshua's mother, Terrica, and his sister, Alina, had sought to have Susan declared legally dead to collect life insurance, but Cox ultimately gained full control of the estate.\n\nSteven was released from prison on July 11, 2017, after serving a total of seven years following his voyeurism and child pornography convictions. Steven passed away of natural causes on Monday, July 23, 2018 in Tacoma, Washington.\n\nSusan remains a missing person, but given the fates of her sons, it is widely believed that she was murdered by her husband. There are calls to have her declared dead, with the cause being homicide.\n\nDave Cawley, a reporter for a news radio station in Salt Lake City, Utah, began a podcast on the Susan Powell case in November of 2018. The podcast, titled \"Cold,\" offers evidence and information from the case that has never before been made public, such as voice and video recordings, interviews, and more.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860329", "title": "Ethical decision", "text": "Ethical decision\n\nAn ethical decision is one that engenders trust, and thus indicates responsibility, fairness and caring to an individual. To be ethical, one has to demonstrate respect, and responsibility. Ethical decision-making requires a review of different options, eliminating those with an unethical standpoint, and then choosing the best ethical alternative.\n\nThe words \"ethics\" and \"morals\" are frequently used interchangeably and relate to the \"wrong\" and \"right\" conduct. Ethics refer to behavior customary in a culture or society. Morals refer to personal standards of right and wrong. Morals do not change as a person moves from one society to the next. Business ethics is associated with the creation and application of moral standards in a business setting. \n\nEthical decisions come from a place of conscience. For many, conscience is simply an internal source of reward and punishment. But according to researcher Lawrence Kohlberg, conscience is only one of several ways in which ethical values are represented in the personality. Kohlberg believes there are higher levels of moral development and these are acquired in three stages.\n\nTraditions, such as Confucianism, animism, Hinduism, Buddhism, and Taoism, have had a similar impact on their cultures. However, they all tend to emphasize different aspects of decisions than does Western academic ethics, which is said to suffer badly from a \"God's Eye view\" problem. By contrast, these non-Western traditions have emphasized the following:\n\nTrust relationships are the foundations of all ethical decisions. One must learn what is good and ethical from some role model or moral example. Religion often raises certain stories about certain people to this level deliberately.\n\nAll ethical and moral judgement attempts to make consistent descriptions of complex situations and difficult decisions. It is considered to be important because, to those who practice the ethical tradition in which the descriptions are applied, it answers the big question: \"How should we live?\"\n\nThe very questions presupposes that we can define \"how\" (method), \"should\" (ambition), \"we\" (a group seeking consensus), \"live\" (beings with bodies).\n\nWithout this context, ethics is generally just talk implying moral judgement \"- called normative ethics, and covered again in separate article.\"\n\nThe remainder of this article is about practical approaches to ethical decisions that are observed in ordinary people's daily lives and in politics in particular:\n\nAn ethical decision is often thought of as the one that reduces future conflict. In sociology and political science, practical and applied ethics itself is often defined as a process of de-escalating moral conflicts to the point of:\nAt this point the conflict is unlikely to recur.\n\nWithout this, we fall back to the simplistic view, which is \"I am right and you are wrong and you do what I say.\" (\"This is usually called moral absolutism\"). This kind of assertion, backed by force, is the basis of much authority and it leads to violence very often. So much so that it turns out not to be the simplest way to live among humans in the long run, even if it is accepted by small groups (say a whole family) in the short run.\n\nA simple, practical view is that ethics balances \"right versus right\": if there's a dispute we care to hear, then each side must have some right on it. However, this presupposes some instinctive moral core of the individual that must recognize right and wrong, else we do not have two individuals asserting \"right\" and requiring ethical help: if either in fact secretly believes themselves \"wrong\" then they are engaging in tactics to reduce the chance of getting caught or alerting others to it, neither of which is studied by ethics.\n\nEthics can thus be viewed as a lever but one that rests on a moral fulcrum of pre-existing assumptions, like the bodies of the beings in conflict, placed there by circumstances, environments, situations, mostly out of their control – only the choice of resolution is under their own control. When the environment or context has some status in the decision, as in ecological ethics, there is said to be a situated ethics. This is not the same as situational ethics which is about single decisions unlikely to recur.\n\nVarious factors are in play when making decisions. In terms of ethics, the following are significant:\n\n\nCastes or groups in society may have their own moral syndromes that simplify the types of decisions they make, e.g. as professionals in a commercial or governmental field. Jane Jacobs claims there are two irreconcilable moral syndromes that arise from those contrasting views:\n\nPaul Adler defined markets, hierarchies, and communities as three different ways to resolve and make an ethical decision. While Jacobs denied that collusion or collaboration between the syndromes could be constructive, and called any confusion of the two a \"monstrous moral hybrid\", Adler thought that \"Communities\" could do this without corruption. By Jacobs' definition the community itself might be a source of corruption.\n\n\nGeorge Lakoff's theory of moral politics states that these arise from family role differences ultimately, with a moral code emphasizing the logos or \"rule\" of the father as being the source of the motivations of the political \"right\", and one emphasizing the more merciful moderns or mother-like view as being moral source for the \"left\".\n\n\nOne solution is castes: people are raised to make decisions in particular ways based on their family traditions which are drawn from professional traditions. Then people take on the profession for which they are best prepared. This addresses the problem raised above, that the simplest ways to make \"'ethical decision\"s tend to conflict. But of course then the choice of profession is not up to the person but the family or the society around them.\n\n\nWithout such a system, differences may evolve into some full system of community consensus or politics:\n\nPolitics, as Bernard Crick put it, is \"ethics carried out in public\". His list of political virtues is an attempt to frame politics as a form of ethics, and ethics as a form of conflict resolution.\n\nA political party for instance in democracy helps those who see ethical decisions the same way, form groups to promote those criteria for decisions that they see as most important.\n\n\nMost surviving societies recognize certain acts that are usually bad for the society, such as lying, stealing, murder of people, adultery, and impiety (to God or Nature which in early societies was often the same).\n\n\nSociologists and anthropologists believe that there is a tendency in most societies to support:\n\nIt is actually not possible to use any of those words without moral judgements – possibly judgments inherited from the dictionary – this is studied in meta-ethics and in descriptive ethics also.\n\nSince all surviving societies must protect helpless people like elders, children, and pregnant women, it is likely that these concepts are defined more with reference to those helpless people than to others – that is, those with power have a duty to protect the helpless.\n\n\nOne nearly-universal moral principle is some form of the golden rule: \"Act towards other people as you would want others to act towards you.\" Another principle is that a person can only be blamed or praised if they could choose to act or refuse to act. Another is that there seems to be something good about helping living things in general, or compassion or empathy.\n\nIt is useful to distinguish \"good from bad\" in our actions just as we might distinguish \"good from evil\" morally in our thoughts. It's also useful to recognize that we use the word \"right\" to assert what we are due and to judge what is correct. To anything that's alive, it's \"right\" for it to live, that too is built into the body. If a creature is physically fit and capable of thriving in its environment, it takes a lot to overcome a preference to live:\n\n"}
{"id": "18581353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18581353", "title": "Ewok", "text": "Ewok\n\nEwoks are a fictional species of small, mammaloid bipeds that appear in the \"Star Wars\" universe. They are hunter-gatherers resembling teddy bears that inhabit the forest moon of Endor and live in various arboreal huts and other simple dwellings. They first appeared in the 1983 film \"Return of the Jedi\" and have since appeared in two made-for-television films, \"\" (1984) and \"\" (1985), as well as a short-lived animated series and several books and games.\n\nGeorge Lucas created the Ewoks because he wanted \"Return of the Jedi\" to feature a tribe of some primitive creatures that bring down the technological Empire. He had originally intended the scenes to be set on the Wookiee home planet, but as the film series evolved, the Wookiees became technologically skilled. Lucas designed a new species instead, and as Wookiees were tall, he made Ewoks short. In addition, he also based the Ewoks' defeat of the Galactic Empire on the actions of the Viet Cong guerrillas who menaced American soldiers during the Vietnam War. The Ewoks are named after the Miwok, a Native American tribe, indigenous to the Redwood forest in which the Endor scenes were filmed for \"Return of the Jedi\", near the San Rafael location of Lucas' Skywalker Ranch.\n\nUsing the image of the Griffon Bruxellois, a dog breed which Lucas owned, the Ewok was developed by renowned make-up artist Stuart Freeborn. As presented in the films, Ewoks appear as stocky, sapient bipeds which stand about one metre tall. They have flat faces, are completely covered in fur, and have large jewel-like eyes. Both their fur and their eyes come in a variety of earth tones, primarily brown, white, grey, gold, and black. Despite their small size, Ewoks are strong; in the climactic battle scene of \"Return of the Jedi\", they are shown physically overpowering and once even throwing Imperial Stormtroopers, though this detail is not consistent throughout the film. Ewoks live high among the trees of their home moon's forests, in villages built on platforms between the closely spaced trees.\n\nAn \"Ewokese\" language was created for the films by \"Return of the Jedi\" sound designer Ben Burtt. On the commentary track for the DVD of \"Return of the Jedi\", Burtt explains that the language is based on Kalmyk, a Mongolic language spoken by the Kalmyk people of Russia. Burtt heard the language in a documentary and liked its sound, which seems very alien to Western ears. After some research, he identified an 80-year-old Kalmyk refugee. Burtt recorded her telling folk stories in her native language, and then used the recordings as a basis for sounds that became the Ewok language and were performed by voice actors who imitated the old woman's voice in different styles. For the scene in which C-3PO speaks Ewokese, actor Anthony Daniels worked with Burtt and invented words, based on the Kalmyk recordings.\n\nThe Ewoks are involved in a large portion of the final installment in Lucasfilm's \"Star Wars\" trilogy. When the Empire begins operations on the moon of Endor, prior to the events depicted in the film, it ignores the primitive Ewoks. Princess Leia, part of a Rebel strike team, then befriends the Ewok Wicket W. Warrick, a scout from Bright Tree village, and is taken to meet the other Ewoks. The Ewoks capture Han Solo, Chewbacca, Luke and the droids in a trap, and take them back to the village. As Ewoks are a carnivorous race that considers humanoid flesh a delicacy, they prepare fires in anticipation of eating Han, Luke and Chewbacca to absorb their power.\n\nThe Ewoks worship the protocol droid C-3PO, thinking he is a god due to his golden, metallic body and later display of power arranged by Luke Skywalker through the Force. C-3PO tells the Council of Elders the adventures of the rebel heroes Skywalker, Princess Leia, and Han Solo. The Ewoks accept the Rebels into their tribe and ally themselves to their cause. They then help in the ground battle to destroy the Imperial shield generator on the forest floor, and their primitive weapons fell the Imperial Stormtroopers and the AT-ST walkers of the Empire. This assistance paves the way to victory at the Battle of Endor. Later that night, the Ewoks are shown holding a huge celebration.\n\nEwoks speak their native language of Ewokese, a fictional language created for the film. This language is understood by C-3PO, but not the humans in the film.\n\nThe word \"Ewok\" is not mentioned anywhere in the film, nor are any individuals referred to by name, except in the end titles, where names of the more prominent characters (Wicket, Paploo, Teebo, Logray and Chirpa) are shown, while the others are just listed as Ewoks.\n\nAfter the release of \"Return of the Jedi\", the Ewoks starred in two made-for-TV movies, both of which starred Warwick Davis reprising his role as Wicket from \"Return of the Jedi\". The first film, \"\", was released in November 1984, followed by \"\" the next year. The Ewoks also starred in cartoon series on ABC known simply as \"Ewoks\".\n\nThe Ewoks were a controversial addition to \"Return of the Jedi\" and the \"Star Wars\" universe in general, and are seen by some to be the weakest link of the original trilogy. According to Tami Katzoff of MTV News, \"a prevailing theory among Ewok-haters is that the creatures were originally conceived as a sure way to appeal to small children and sell plush toys to their parents.\" The Ewoks have some defenders, and have proven to be very popular with children from their introduction in the 1980s to the present day.\n\nWicket is the most prominently featured Ewok in \"Return of The Jedi\". During his travels, he encounters Princess Leia in the forest. He helps her to the relative safety of his village, and notices her kindness and good spirit. Wicket has good knowledge of the terrain of Endor, leading him to be essential during the Rebellion's attack on the Imperial forces.\nWicket was portrayed by actor Warwick Davis.\n\nTeebo is described by the \"Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary\" as being \"'A watcher of the stars and a poet at heart.\"' His ability to make a sound practical judgement has caused him to have a position as a leader within the tribe. He wears a Gurreck skull headdress.\nTeebo was portrayed by Jack Purvis.\n\nChief Chirpa has been the leader of the Ewok tribe for a total of 42 seasons. He has a large amount of wisdom and good judgement, but he has become forgetful due to his old age. He allows the Ewok tribe the authority to fight against the Empire. Chief Chirpa has a medallion signifying he is the chief of the Ewoks.\nChirpa was played by Jane Busby.\n\nLogray is the Ewok tribal shaman, who relies on ancient magic in order to assist his tribe. He is suspicious of all outsiders, which is reinforced due to the arrival of Imperial troops.\nLogray was portrayed by Mike Edmonds who also was \"tail-puppeteer\" for Jabba the Hutt.\n\nPaploo is Chief Chirpa's nephew and a scout who, along with Wicket, helps lead the Rebels to the shield generator protecting the Death Star. Although his effort to lure four Imperial scouts away from the bunker could have compromised the attack, it was relatively successful as he stole a speeder bike and forced three of the scouts to give chase, allowing the rebels to overpower the last guard and gain entrance. Paploo is seen later helping the Ewoks fight the Empire.\n\nNippet is a baby Ewok who gets her name in the vintage era. Nippet is the daughter of Lumat.\n\nLumat is the chief woodcutter of the tribe, and is the father of Nippet.\n\n"}
{"id": "33801744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33801744", "title": "Family Violence Prevention and Services Act", "text": "Family Violence Prevention and Services Act\n\nThe Family Violence Prevention and Services Act (FVPSA) is a United States law, first authorized as part of the Child Abuse Amendments of 1984 (PL 98–457), that provides federal funding to help victims of domestic violence and their dependent children by providing shelter and related help, offering violence prevention programs, and improving how service agencies work together in communities. \n\n"}
{"id": "31599337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31599337", "title": "First Fiji Expedition", "text": "First Fiji Expedition\n\nThe First Fiji Expedition undertaken by the United States occurred in October 1855 during the civil war on the islands. In response to the alleged arson attacks on the American commercial agent in Lautoka, Viti Levu, the navy sent a warship to demand compensation for the attack from Seru Epenisa Cakobau, the Vunivalu of Bau and self-proclaimed Tui Viti (King of Fiji).\n\nThe first incident that led to the American expedition was in 1849 when the house owned by agent John Brown Williams was hit by cannon fire and burned. The Fijians were allegedly celebrating Independence Day when cannonballs fell on the building. The second incident happened the same year as the expedition when, again, fire was to interrupt John Williams's duties. After another accidental fire on Nukulau destroyed his store and some Fijians looted it. , under Commander Edward B. Boutwell, was sent to monitor the unrest in October and her crew were landed on more than one occasion to protect American interests. When Commander Boutwell heard of the incidents involving William's house and store, he demanded US$5,000 in compensation from King Cakobau. This initial claim was supplemented by further claims totalling $45,000. The natives received a deadline saying if they failed to pay, a landing party of marines and sailors would be sent ashore to capture the king in the island's village. Fijian warriors put up some resistance and one American service man was killed and two were wounded. Ultimately the men of \"John Adams\" were successful in routing a contingent of natives from Lautoka but Cakobau and the survivors escaped capture.\n\nCakobau's claim to be King of Fiji was by no means universally recognized by his fellow-chiefs, who jealously guarded the independence of their fiefdoms. His dilemma was that if he acknowledged the debt, he did not have sufficient funds to pay it, but that if he disclaimed it by saying that it fell under the jurisdiction of another chief, he would jeopardize his claim to the kingship, which he wanted foreign powers to recognize. He decided to bide his time, hoping that the Americans were only bluffing.\n\nA second expedition in 1858, involving the crew of , achieved clearer results but in the end, Cakobau never paid the debt.\n"}
{"id": "52909430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52909430", "title": "Forest reproductive material", "text": "Forest reproductive material\n\nForest reproductive material is a part of a tree that can be used for reproduction such as seed, cutting or seedling. Artificial regeneration, carried out through seeding or planting, typically involves transferring forest reproductive material to a particular site from other locations while natural regeneration relies on genetic material that is already available on the site.\n\nTechnical opportunities and challenges to ensure quality and quantity of forest reproductive material can be found in the activities of identification, selection, procurement, propagation, conservation, improvement and sustained production of reproductive material. The use of low quality or poorly adapted forest reproductive material can have very negative impact on the vitality and resilience of a forest.\n\nIn Europe, much of the material used for artificial regeneration is produced and transferred within a single country. However, forest reproductive material, usually in the form of seeds or cuttings, is increasingly traded across national borders, especially within the European Union.\n\nAs a result of climate changes, leading to increasing temperatures, some parts of the current distribution ranges of forest trees are expected to become unsuitable while new areas may become suitable for many species in higher latitudes or altitudes. This will most likely increase the future demand for imported forest reproductive material as forest managers and owners try to identify tree species and provenances that will be able to grow in their land under new climatic conditions. Especially, forest reproductive material with high plasticity will be increasingly useful for this purpose.\n\n"}
{"id": "102559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102559", "title": "Gay panic defense", "text": "Gay panic defense\n\nThe gay panic defense is an attempted legal defense, usually against charges of assault or murder. A defendant using the defense claims they acted in a state of violent temporary insanity because of unwanted same-sex sexual advances. The defendant alleges to find the same-sex sexual advances so offensive and frightening that it brings on a psychotic state characterized by unusual violence.\n\nTrans panic is a similar defense applied in cases of assault, manslaughter, or murder of a transgender individual, with whom the assailant(s) engaged in sexual relations unaware that the victim is transgender until seeing them naked, or further into or post sexual activity.\n\nIn Australia, it is known as the homosexual advance defense (HAD). Of the status of the HAD in Australia, Kent Blore wrote:Although the homosexual advance defence cannot be found anywhere in legislation, its entrenchment in case law gives it the force of law. [...] Several Australian states and territories have either abolished the umbrella defence of provocation entirely or excluded non-violent homosexual advances from its ambit. Of those that have abolished provocation entirely, Tasmania was the first to do so in 2003.\n\nVictoria passed similar reforms in 2005, followed by Western Australia in 2008 and Queensland in 2017 (with a clause to allow it in 'exceptional circumstances' to be determined by a magistrate). In a differing approach, New South Wales, the ACT and Northern Territory have implemented changes to stipulate that non-violent sexual advances (of any kind, including homosexual) aren't a valid defence.\n\nSouth Australia was the first Australian jurisdiction to legalise consensual homosexual acts in 1975; however, it was the only Australian jurisdiction not to have repealed or overhauled the gay panic defence. In 2015 the South Australian state government was awaiting, the report from the South Australian Law Reform Institute and the outcome of the appeal to the High Court from the Court of Criminal Appeal of South Australia. In 2011 Andrew Negre was killed by Michael Lindsay bashing and stabbing him. Lindsay's principle defence was that he stabbed Negre in the chest and abdomen but Negre's death was the result of someone else slitting Negre's throat. The secondary defence was that Lindsay's action in stabbing Negre was because he had lost self-control after Negre made sexual advances towards him and offered to pay Lindsay for sex. The jury convicted Lindsay of murder and he was sentenced to life imprisonment with a 23-year non-parole period. The Court of Criminal Appeal upheld the conviction finding that the directions to the jury on the gay panic defence were flawed, but that every reasonable jury would have found that an ordinary person could not have to lost self-control and acted in the way Lindsay did. The High Court held that a properly instructed jury might have found that an offer of money for sex made by a Caucasian man to an Aboriginal man in the latter's home and in the presence of his wife and family may have had a pungency that an unwelcome sexual advance made by one man toward another in other circumstances would not have. Lindsay was re-tried and was again convicted of murder. The Court of Criminal Appeal upheld the conviction, and an application for special leave to appeal to the High Court was dismissed. In April 2017 the South Australian Law Reform Institute recommended that the law of provocation be reformed to remove discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and / or gender, but that the removal of a non-violent sexual advance as a partial defence to murder be deferred until stage 2 of the report was produced.\n\n\nGuidance given to counsel by the Crown Prosecution Service of England and Wales states: \"The fact that the victim made a sexual advance on the defendant does not, of itself, automatically provide the defendant with a defence of self-defence for the actions that they then take.\" In the UK, it has been known for decades as the \"Portsmouth defence\" or the \"guardsman's defence\". (The latter term was used in a 1980 episode of \"Rumpole of the Bailey\".)\n\nThe gay panic defense in the United States has been banned explicitly only within California, Rhode Island and Illinois, but the American Bar Association suggested in 2013 that other states follow their lead.\n\nIn 2006, California amended its penal code to include jury instructions to ignore bias, sympathy, prejudice, or public opinion in making their decision, and a directive was made to educate district attorneys' offices about panic strategies and how to prevent bias from affecting trial outcomes. On September 27, 2014, Governor Jerry Brown signed Assembly Bill No. 2501, making California the first state in the US to ban the gay and trans panic defense. AB 2501 states that discovery of, knowledge about, or potential disclosure of the victim's actual or perceived gender, gender identity, gender expression, or sexual orientation does not, by itself, constitute sufficient provocation to justify a lesser charge of voluntary manslaughter.\n\nIn August 2017, Bruce Rauner, Governor of Illinois, signed a bill eliminating the gay and trans panic defenses in that state.\n\nIn June 2018, a bill to repeal the gay and trans panic defense passed the Rhode Island Assembly (House vote 68–2 passed and Senate voice vote 27-0 passed). The Governor of Rhode Island signed the bill into law a month later in July 2018. The law went into effect immediately.\n\nThe gay panic defense is generally invoked in cases where the guilt of the defendant is unquestioned, but only to strengthen a more \"traditional criminal law defense such as insanity, diminished capacity, provocation, or self-defense\" and is not meant to provide justification of the crime on its own. While using the gay panic defense to explain insanity has typically not been successful in winning a complete acquittal, diminished capacity, provocation, and self-defense have all been used successfully to reduce charges and sentences. Historically, in US courts, use of the gay panic defense has not typically resulted in the acquittal of the defendant; instead, the defendant was usually found guilty, but on lesser charges, or judges and juries may have cited homosexual solicitation as a mitigating factor, resulting in reduced culpability and sentences.\n\nThe most famous case in which this occurred was the \"Jenny Jones\" case, in which Jonathan Schmitz was tried for the first-degree murder of Scott Amedure and was instead found guilty of the lesser offense of second-degree murder. Some instances where the gay panic defense has been invoked include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1298569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298569", "title": "Gene Lockhart", "text": "Gene Lockhart\n\nEdwin Eugene Lockhart (July 18, 1891 – March 31, 1957) was a Canadian-American character actor, singer, and playwright. He also wrote the lyrics to a number of popular songs. He became a United States citizen in 1939.\n\nBorn in London, Ontario, the son of John Coats Lockhart and Ellen Mary (née Delaney) Lockhart, he made his professional debut at the age of six when he appeared with the Kilties Band of Canada. He later appeared in sketches with Beatrice Lillie.\n\nLockhart was educated in various Canadian schools and at the London Oratory School in London, England. He also played football for the Toronto Argonauts.\n\nLockhart had a long stage career; he also wrote professionally and taught acting and stage technique at the Juilliard School of Music in New York City. He had also written theatrical sketches, radio shows, special stage material, song lyrics and articles for stage and radio magazines.\n\nHe made his Broadway debut in 1916, in the musical \" The Riviera Girl\". He was a member of the traveling play \"The Pierrot Players\" (for which he wrote the book and lyrics). This play introduced the song, \"The World Is Waiting for the Sunrise\", for which Lockhart wrote the lyrics along with Canadian composer Ernest Seitz. (The song was subsequently made popular by Les Paul and Mary Ford in the 1950s.) He wrote and directed the Broadway musical revue \"Bunk of 1926\". He sang in \"Die Fledermaus\" for the San Francisco Opera Association. On Broadway, Lockhart originated the role of Uncle Sid in Eugene O'Neill's only comedy, \"Ah, Wilderness!\" (1933), and took over from Lee J. Cobb as Willy Loman, during the original run of \"Death of a Salesman\" (1949).\n\nHowever, Lockhart is mostly remembered for his film work. He made his film debut in the 1922 version of \"Smilin' Through\", as the Rector, but did not make his sound debut until 1934 in the film \"By Your Leave\", where he played the playboy Skeets. Lockhart subsequently appeared in more than 300 motion pictures. He often played villains, including a role as the treacherous informant Regis in \"Algiers\", the American remake of \"Pepe le Moko\", which gained him an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. He also played the suspicious Georges de la Trémouille, the Dauphin's chief counselor, in the famous 1948 film \"Joan of Arc\", starring Ingrid Bergman. He had a great succession of \"good guy\" supporting roles including Bob Cratchit in \"A Christmas Carol\" (1938) and the judge in \"Miracle on 34th Street\" (1947).\n\nUpon the arrival of Orson Welles in Hollywood in 1940, Lockhart became well known as the author of a short poem satirizing Welles entitled \"Little Orson Annie\":\n\nThe poem is a parody of the 1885 poem \"Little Orphant Annie\" by James Whitcomb Riley.\n\nLockhart is remembered as the Starkeeper in \"Carousel\" (1956). Playing a bumbling sheriff, he appeared in \"His Girl Friday\" (1940) opposite Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell. He also appeared in the movie \"The Sea Wolf\" (1941), adapted from the novel by Jack London, as a ship's doctor. His last film role was that of the Equity Board President in the film \"Jeanne Eagels\" (1957).\n\nLockhart has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame—one for motion pictures, at 6307 Hollywood Boulevard, and one for television at 6681 Hollywood Boulevard. Both were dedicated February 8, 1960.\n\nLockhart was married to Kathleen Lockhart from 12 June 1924 until his death. They had one child together, June Lockhart, through whom he is the grandfather of Anne Lockhart.\n\nLockhart died April 1, 1957, from a coronary thrombosis at the age of 65 in St. John's Hospital, Santa Monica, California. He is buried next to his wife in Holy Cross Cemetery, Culver City.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30867546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30867546", "title": "Growing self-organizing map", "text": "Growing self-organizing map\n\nA growing self-organizing map (GSOM) is a growing variant of a self-organizing map (SOM). The GSOM was developed to address the issue of identifying a suitable map size in the SOM. It starts with a minimal number of nodes (usually 4) and grows new nodes on the boundary based on a heuristic. By using the value called Spread Factor (SF), the data analyst has the ability to control the growth of the GSOM.\n\nAll the starting nodes of the GSOM are boundary nodes, i.e. each node has the freedom to grow in its own direction at the beginning. (Fig. 1) New Nodes are grown from the boundary nodes. Once a node is selected for growing all its free neighboring positions will be grown new nodes. The figure shows the three possible node growth options for a rectangular GSOM.\n\nThe GSOM process is as follows:\n\nThe GSOM can be used for many preprocessing tasks in Data mining, for Nonlinear dimensionality reduction, for approximation of principal curves and manifolds, for clustering and classification. It gives often the better representation of the data geometry than the SOM (see the classical benchmark for principal curves on the left).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28844657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28844657", "title": "Gunnel Gummeson", "text": "Gunnel Gummeson\n\nGunnel Gummeson (born 1930, declared dead \"in absentia\" 8 February 1977), was a Swedish school teacher, last seen travelling in Northern Afghanistan with her American fiancé Peter Winant in 1956. The extensive investigations were hampered by official corruption and codes of loyalty to clan chiefs. None of the later sightings were confirmed, and the case has never been solved.\n\nGunnel Gummeson was a teacher from Hultsfred in Småland who moved to Nora in Bergslagen when she was 2 years old. After having worked as a volunteer social worker in India, she decided to return to Sweden by land travel together with her boyfriend Peter Winant, who had previous experience in travelling in Afghanistan. On 20 May 1956, she posted a letter to her parents in the post office of Kabul, where she informed them about her travelling plans. A couple of days later, the couple was seen disembarking a truck in the city of Shibarghan in the Northern provinces. According to witness statements, they followed one of their fellow passengers, who rented out rooms. The last confirmed information was when they were seen entering a doorway in the city.\n\nThe father of Peter Winant, Frederick Winant, made investigations which indicated that they had been seen continuing on their way to Herat. He complained to the government, which instigated an investigation. Three governors were fired, 10,000 riders were sent out and so many people were arrested that the jails became overcrowded, according to the reports of the Swedish embassy advisor Lennart Petri. None of the information after they left Shibarghan was confirmed, however, and reports that they had been seen in Qaisar were disregarded by Afghan authorities. In 1961, the investigations was finally finished and the foreign minister of Afghanistan gave a formal statement concluding that both were likely to have been murdered in Shibarghan.\n\nIn May 1963, the cabinet secretary of the Swedish foreign office, Leif Belfrage, received a confidential, personal letter from the USA ambassador, J. Graham Parsons, with the information that Gunnel Gummeson was likely being kept in captivity as the daughter-in-law of a wealthy clan chief in Qaisar, Kala Khan; she was also to have given birth to a son. The source of this information was a pashtun, a secret Christian convert, who had acquired the information during his military service and passed it on to an American priest. According to the pashtun, who was referred to in the diplomatic correspondence as “Joe”, it was common knowledge in Maimana that Winant had been killed and that Gummeson had been sold to the khan. The public was loyal to the khan, and the province governor had been bribed. Asked by the American priest, “Joe” travelled to Maimana territory dressed as a toy merchant, entered the summer camp of Kala Khan and there met a blond boy with European features. His attempts to contact the mother failed and he was forced to flee.\n\nThe Swedish foreign office and ambassador Dick Hichens-Bergström took the information seriously and discussed a rescue operation by helicopter. In June, King Zahir Shah sent a team of 175 elite soldiers dressed as road workers to search through every village and nomad camp for Gummeson. The only blonde western woman they found, however, was a Russian who assured them that she was voluntarily and happily married.\n\nThe Gummeson case attracted a lot of attention and media coverage and was also mentioned in contemporary travel guides. The newspaper \"Aftonbladet\" sent crime reporter Börje Heed to Afghanistan to track Gummeson. The last report about the case was an article in \"Aftonbladet\" from 1967, in which two tourists, who had read about the case, reported that they had seen an unusually blond boy in north west Afghanistan.\n\nThe fate of Gunnel Gummeson and Peter Winant remains unknown. On 8 February 1977, Gummeson was officially declared presumed dead by the court of Lindesberg.\n\nThe Gunnel Gummeson case was the inspiration of a novel by Gert Holmertz: \"Muren i Maimana\" (Maimana Wall) SAK förlag/Premiss förlag (2004)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10725984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10725984", "title": "Gunshot wound", "text": "Gunshot wound\n\nA gunshot wound (GSW), also known as ballistic trauma, is a form of physical trauma sustained from the discharge of arms or munitions. The most common forms of ballistic trauma stem from firearms used in armed conflicts, civilian sporting, recreational pursuits and criminal activity. Damage is dependent on the firearm, bullet, velocity, entry point, and trajectory. Management can range from observation and local wound care to urgent surgical intervention.\n\nTrauma from a gunshot wound varies widely based on the bullet, velocity, entry point, trajectory, and affected anatomy. Gunshot wounds can be particularly devastating compared to other penetrating injuries because the trajectory and fragmentation of bullets can be unpredictable after entry. Additionally, gunshot wounds typically involve a large degree of nearby tissue disruption and destruction due to the physical effects of the projectile correlated with the bullet velocity classification.\n\nThe immediate damaging effect of a gunshot wound is typically severe bleeding, and with it the potential for hypovolemic shock, a condition characterized by inadequate delivery of oxygen to vital organs. In the case of traumatic hypovolemic shock, this failure of adequate oxygen delivery is due to blood loss, as blood is the means of delivering oxygen to the body's constituent parts. Devastating effects can result when a bullet strikes a vital organ such as the heart, lungs or liver, or damages a component of the central nervous system such as the spinal cord or brain.\n\nCommon causes of death following gunshot injury include bleeding, hypoxia caused by pneumothorax, catastrophic injury to the heart and larger blood vessels, and damage to the brain or central nervous system. Non-fatal gunshot wounds frequently have severe and long-lasting effects, typically some form of major disfigurement and/or permanent disability.\n\nGunshot wounds are classified according to the speed of the projectile:\nBullets from handguns are generally less than , while bullets from rifles exceed . The US military commonly uses 5.56-mm bullets, which have a relatively low mass as compared with other bullets; however, the speed of these bullets is relatively fast. As a result, they produce a larger amount of kinetic energy, which is transmitted to the tissues of the target. Muzzle velocity does not consider the effect of aerodynamic drag on the flight of the bullet for the sake of ease of comparison.\n\nThe degree of tissue disruption caused by a projectile is related to the cavitation the projectile creates as it passes through tissue. A bullet with sufficient energy will have a cavitation effect in addition to the penetrating track injury. As the bullet passes through the tissue, initially crushing then lacerating, the space left forms a cavity; this is called the permanent cavity. Higher-velocity bullets create a pressure wave that forces the tissues away, creating not only a permanent cavity the size of the caliber of the bullet but also a temporary cavity or secondary cavity, which is often many times larger than the bullet itself. The temporary cavity is the radial stretching of tissue around the bullet’s wound track, which momentarily leaves an empty space caused by high pressures surrounding the projectile that accelerate material away from its path. The extent of cavitation, in turn, is related to the following characteristics of the projectile:\n\nInitial workup for a gunshot wound is approached in the same way as any acute trauma case. A rapid first pass of the person is conducted using advanced trauma life support (ATLS) protocol in order to ensure that the most vital functions are intact. These include:\nDepending on the extent of injury, management can range from urgent surgical intervention to observation. As such, any history from the scene such as gun type, shots fired, shot direction and distance, blood loss on scene, and pre-hospital vitals signs can be very helpful in directing management. Unstable people with signs of bleeding that cannot be controlled during the initial evaluation require immediate surgical exploration in the operating room. Otherwise, management protocols are generally dictated by anatomic entry point and anticipated trajectory.\n\nA gunshot wound to the neck can be particularly dangerous because of the high number of vital anatomical structures contained within a small space. The neck contains the larynx, trachea, pharynx, esophagus, vasculature (carotid, subclavian, and vertebral arteries; jugular, brachiocephalic, and vertebral veins; thyroid vessels), and nervous system anatomy (spinal cord, cranial nerves, peripheral nerves, sympathetic chain, brachial plexus). Gunshots to the neck can thus cause severe bleeding, airway compromise, and nervous system injury.\n\nInitial assessment of a gunshot wound to the neck involves non-probing inspection of whether the injury is a penetrating neck injury (PNI), classified by violation of the platsyma muscle. If the platsyma is intact, the wound is considered superficial and only requires local wound care. If the injury is a PNI, surgery should be consulted immediately while the case is being managed. Of note, wounds should not be explored on the field or in the emergency department given the risk of exacerbating the wound.\n\nDue to the advances in diagnostic imaging, management of PNI has been shifting from a \"zone-based\" approach, which uses anatomical site of injury to guide decisions, to a \"no-zone\" approach which uses a symptom-based algorithm. The no-zone approach uses a hard signs and imaging system to guide next steps. Hard signs include airway compromise, unresponsive shock, diminished pulses, uncontrolled bleeding, expanding hematoma, bruits/thrill, air bubbling from wound or extensive subcutaneous air, stridor/hoarseness, neurological deficits. If any hard signs are present, immediate surgical exploration and repair is pursued alongside airway and bleeding control. If there are no hard signs, the person receives a multi-detector CT angiography for better diagnosis. A directed angiography or endoscopy may be warranted in a high-risk trajectory for the gunshot. A positive finding on CT leads to operative exploration. If negative, the person may be observed with local wound care.\n\nImportant anatomy in the chest includes the chest wall, ribs, spine, spinal cord, intercostal neurovascular bundles, lungs, bronchi, heart, aorta, major vessels, esophagus, thoracic duct, and diaphragm. Gunshots to the chest can thus cause severe bleeding (hemothorax), respiratory compromise (pneumothorax, hemothorax, pulmonary contusion, tracheobronchial injury), cardiac injury (pericardial tamponade), esophageal injury, and nervous system injury.\n\nInitial workup as outlined in the Workup section is particularly important with gunshot wounds to the chest because of the high risk for direct injury to the lungs, heart, and major vessels. Important notes for the initial workup specific for chest injuries are as follows. In people with pericardial tamponade or tension pneumothorax, the chest should be evacuated or decompressed if possible prior to attempting tracheal intubation because the positive pressure ventilation can cause hypotention or cardiovascular collapse. Those with signs of a tension pneumothorax (asymmetric breathing, unstable blood flow, respiratory distress) should immediately receive a chest tube (> French 36) or needle decompression if chest tube placement is delayed. FAST exam should include extended views into the chest to evaluate for hemopericardium, pneumothorax, hemothorax, and peritoneal fluid.\n\nThose with cardiac tamponade, uncontrolled bleeding, or a persistent air leak from a chest tube all require surgery. Cardiac tamponade can be identified on FAST exam. Blood loss warranting surgery is 1-1.5 L of immediate chest tube drainage or ongoing bleeding of 200-300 mL/hr. Persistent air leak is suggestive of tracheobronchial injury which will not heal without surgical intervention. Depending on the severity of the person's condition and if cardiac arrest is recent or imminent, the person may require surgical intervention in the emergency department, otherwise known as an emergency department thoracotomy (EDT).\n\nHowever, not all gunshot to the chest require surgery. Asymptomatic people with a normal chest X-ray can be observed with a repeat exam and imaging after 6 hours to ensure no delayed development of pneumothorax or hemothorax. If a person only has a pneumothorax or hemothorax, a chest tube is usually sufficient for management unless there is large volume bleeding or persistent air leak as noted above. Additional imaging after initial chest X-ray and ultrasound can be useful in guiding next steps for stable people. Common imaging modalities include chest CT, formal echocardiography, angiography, esophagoscopy, esophagography, and bronchoscopy depending on the signs and symptoms.\n\nImportant anatomy in the abdomen includes the stomach, small bowel, colon, liver, spleen, pancreas, kidneys, spine, diaphragm, descending aorta, and other abdominal vessels and nerves. Gunshots to the abdomen can thus cause severe bleeding, release of bowel contents, peritonitis, organ rupture, respiratory compromise, and neurological deficits.\n\nThe most important initial evaluation of a gunshot wound to the abdomen is whether there is uncontrolled bleeding, inflammation of the peritoneum, or spillage of bowel contents. If any of these are present, the person should be transferred immediately to the operating room for laparotomy. If it is difficult to evaluate for those indications because the person is unresponsive or incomprehensible, it is up to the surgeon's discretion whether to pursue laparotomy, exploratory laparoscopy, or alternative investigative tools.\n\nAlthough all people with abdominal gunshot wounds were taken to the operating room in the past, practice has shifted in recent years with the advances in imaging to non-operative approaches in more stable people. If the person's vital signs are stable without indication for immediate surgery, imaging is done to determine the extent of injury. Ultrasound (FAST) and help identify intra-abdominal bleeding and X-rays can help determine bullet trajectory and fragmentation. However, the best and preferred mode of imaging is high-resolution multi-detector CT (MDCT) with IV, oral, and sometimes rectal contrast. Severity of injury found on imaging will determine whether the surgeon takes an operative or close observational approach.\n\nDiagnostic peritoneal lavage (DPL) has become largely obsolete with the advances in MDCT, with use limited to centers without access to CT to guide requirement for urgent transfer for operation.\n\nThe four main components of extremities are bones, vessels, nerves, and soft tissues. Gunshot wounds can thus cause severe bleeding, fractures, nerve deficits, and soft tissue damage. The Mangled Extremity Severity Score (MESS) is used to classify the severity of injury and evaluates for severity of skeletal and/or soft tissue injury, limb ischemia, shock, and age. Depending on the extent of injury, management can range from superficial wound care to limb amputation.\n\nVital sign stability and vascular assessment are the most important determinants of management in extremity injuries. As with other traumatic cases, those with uncontrolled bleeding require immediate surgical intervention. If surgical intervention is not readily available and direct pressure is insufficient to control bleeding, tourniquets or direct clamping of visible vessels may be used temporarily to slow active bleeding. People with hard signs of vascular injury also require immediate surgical intervention. Hard signs include active bleeding, expanding or pulsatile hematoma, bruit/thrill, absent distal pulses and signs of extremity ischemia.\n\nFor stable people without hard signs of vascular injury, an injured extremity index (IEI) should be calculated by comparing the blood pressure in the injured limb compared to an uninjured limb in order to further evaluate for potential vascular injury. If the IEI or clinical signs are suggestive of vascular injury, the person may undergo surgery or receive further imaging including CT angiography or conventional arteriography.\n\nIn addition to vascular management, people must be evaluated for bone, soft tissue, and nerve injury. Plain films can be used for fractures alongside CTs for soft tissue assessment. Fractures must be debrided and stabilized, nerves repaired when possible, and soft tissue debrided and covered. This process can often require multiple procedures over time depending on the severity of injury.\n\nAssault by firearm resulted in 173,000 deaths globally in 2015, up from 128,000 deaths in 1990. Additionally, there were 32,000 unintentional firearm deaths in 2015. As of 2016, the countries with the highest rates of gun violence per capita were El Salvador, Venezuela, and Guatemala with 40.3, 34.8, and 26.8 violent gun deaths per 100,000 people respectively. The countries with the lowest rates of were Singapore, Japan, and South Korea with 0.03, 0.04, and 0.05 violent gun deaths per 100,000 people respectively.\n\nThe United States has the 31st highest rate of violent gun deaths in the world with 3.85 deaths per 100,000 people in 2016. The majority of all homicides and suicides are firearm-related, and the majority of firearm-related deaths are the result of murder and suicide. When sorted by GDP, however, the United States has a much higher violent gun death rate compared to other developed countries, with over 10 times the number of firearms assault deaths than the next four highest GDP countries combined. Gunshot violence is the third most costly etiology of injury and the fourth most expensive form of hospitalization in the United States.\n\nHieronymus Brunschwig argued that infection of gunshot wounds was a result of poisoning by gunpowder, which provided the rationale for cauterizing wounds. Ambroise Paré wrote in his 1545 book, \"The Method of Curing Wounds Caused by Arquebus and Firearms,\" that wounds should be sealed rather than cauterized. John Hunter argued that infection was not caused by poisoning.\n\nUntil the 1880s, the standard practice for treating a gunshot wound called for physicians to insert their unsterilized fingers into the wound to probe and locate the path of the bullet. Surgically opening abdominal cavities to repair gunshot wounds, germ theory, and Joseph Lister's technique for antiseptic surgery using diluted carbolic acid, first demonstrated in 1865, had not yet been accepted as standard practice. For example, sixteen doctors attended to President James A. Garfield after he was shot, and most probed the wound with their fingers or dirty instruments. Historians agree that massive infection was a significant factor in Garfield's death.\n\nAt almost the same time, in Tombstone, Arizona Territory, on 13 July 1881, George E. Goodfellow performed the first laparotomy to treat an abdominal gunshot wound. Goodfellow pioneered the use of sterile techniques in treating gunshot wounds, washing the person's wound and his hands with lye soap or whisky. He became America's leading authority on gunshot wounds and is credited as the United States' first civilian trauma surgeon.\n\nToday's surgeons consider any projectile with a velocity of 330 m/s to be low or subsonic and practically all modern weapons have bullet speeds that are considerably higher. By contrast, mid-nineteenth-century handguns such as the Colt revolvers used during the American Civil War had muzzle velocities of just 230-260 m/s and their powder and ball predecessors had velocities of 167 m/s or less. Many of these weapons were still in circulation in America during the 1860s. Unlike today's high-velocity bullets, nineteenth-century balls produced almost little or no cavitation (a kinetic shockwave that causes serious tissue damage) and, being slower moving, they were liable to lodge in unusual locations at odds with their trajectory. \n\nWilhelm Röntgen's discovery of X-rays in 1895 led to the use of radiographs to locate bullets in wounded soldiers.\n\nSurvival rates for gunshot wounds improved among US military personnel during the Korean and Vietnam Wars, due in part to helicopter evacuation, along with improvements in resuscitation and battlefield medicine. Similar improvements were seen in US trauma practices during the Iraq War. Some military trauma care practices are disseminated by citizen soldiers who return to civilian practice. One such practice is to transfer major trauma cases to an operating theater as soon as possible, to stop internal bleeding. Within the United States, the survival rate for gunshot wounds has increased, leading to apparent declines in the gun death rate in states that have stable rates of gunshot hospitalizations.\n\nResearch into gunshot wounds is hampered by lack of funding. Federal-funded research into firearm injury, epidemiology, violence, and prevention is minimal. Pressure from the National Rifle Association, the gun lobby, and some gun owners, expressing concerns regarding increased government controls on freedom and guns, is highly effective in preventing related research.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10443283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10443283", "title": "Homing endonuclease", "text": "Homing endonuclease\n\nThe homing endonucleases are a collection of endonucleases encoded either as freestanding genes within introns, as fusions with host proteins, or as self-splicing inteins. They catalyze the hydrolysis of genomic DNA within the cells that synthesize them, but do so at very few, or even singular, locations. Repair of the hydrolyzed DNA by the host cell frequently results in the gene encoding the homing endonuclease having been copied into the cleavage site, hence the term 'homing' to describe the movement of these genes. Homing endonucleases can thereby transmit their genes horizontally within a host population, increasing their allele frequency at greater than Mendelian rates.\n\nAlthough the origin and function of homing endonucleases is still being researched, the most established hypothesis considers them as selfish genetic elements, similar to transposons, because they facilitate the perpetuation of the genetic elements that encode them independent of providing a functional attribute to the host organism.\n\nHoming endonuclease recognition sequences are long enough to occur randomly only with a very low probability (approximately once every ), and are normally found in one or very few instances per genome. Generally, owing to the homing mechanism, the gene encoding the endonuclease (the HEG, \"homing endonuclease gene\") is located within the recognition sequence which the enzyme cuts, thus interrupting the homing endonuclease recognition sequence and limiting DNA cutting only to sites that do not (yet) carry the HEG.\n\nPrior to transmission, one allele carries the gene (HEG) while the other does not (HEG), and is therefore susceptible to being cut by the enzyme. Once the enzyme is synthesized, it breaks the chromosome in the HEG allele, initiating a response from the cellular DNA repair system. The damage is repaired using recombination, taking the pattern of the opposite, undamaged DNA allele, HEG, that contains the gene for the endonuclease. Thus, the gene is copied to the allele that initially did not have it and it is propagated through successive generations. This process is called \"homing\".\n\nHoming endonucleases are always indicated with a prefix that identifies their genomic origin, followed by a hyphen: \"I-\" for homing endonucleases encoded within an intron, \"PI-\" (for \"protein insert\") for those encoded within an intein. Some authors have proposed using the prefix \"F-\" (\"freestanding\") for viral enzymes and other natural enzymes not encoded by introns nor inteins, and \"H-\" (\"hybrid\") for enzymes synthesized in a laboratory. Next, a capital letter is derived from the first letter of the name of the genus of the natural source organism, and two lower case letters are derived from the name of the species of that organism. Finally, a Roman numeral distinguishes different enzymes found in the same organism.\n\nFor example, we can mention the enzyme PI-TliII that is the second enzyme encoded by an intein found in the archaea \"Thermococcus litoralis\", and H-DreI, the first synthetic homing endonuclease, created in a laboratory from the enzymes I-DmoI and I-CreI, taken respectively from \"Desulfurococcus mobilis\" and \"Chlamydomonas reinhardtii\".\n\nHoming endonucleases differ from Type II restriction enzymes in the several respects:\n\nCurrently there are six known structural families. Their conserved structural motifs are:\n\nThe crystal structure of the homing endonuclease PI-Sce revealed two domains: an endonucleolytic centre resembling the C-terminal domain of \"Drosophila melanogaster\" Hedgehog protein, and a second domain (Homing endonuclease-associated Hint domain) containing the protein-splicing active site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6520671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6520671", "title": "Impalefection", "text": "Impalefection\n\nImpalefection is a method of gene delivery using nanomaterials, such as carbon nanofibers, carbon nanotubes, nanowires. Needle-like nanostructures are synthesized perpendicular to the surface of a substrate. Plasmid DNA containing the gene, intended for intracellular delivery, is attached to the nanostructure surface. A chip with arrays of these needles is then pressed against cells or tissue. Cells that are impaled by nanostructures can express the delivered gene(s).\n\nAs one of the types of transfection, the term is derived from two words – impalement and infection.\n\nOne of the features of impalefection is spatially resolved gene delivery that holds potential for such tissue engineering approaches in wound healing as gene activated matrix technology. Though impalefection is an efficient approach \"in vitro\", it has not yet been effectively used \"in vivo\" on live organisms and tissues.\n\nVertically aligned carbon nanofiber arrays prepared by photolithography and plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition are one of the suitable types of material. Silicon nanowires are another choice of nanoneedles that have been utilized for impalefection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19257270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19257270", "title": "Jack Doubleday", "text": "Jack Doubleday\n\nJack Lindsay Doubleday (28 May 1890 – 30 October 1918) was an Australian rules footballer who played with University and Melbourne in the Victorian Football League.\n\nA dentist, Doubleday enrolled in the Australian Army Medical Corps, but he died of influenza on his way to the Western Front in 1918, and was buried at sea.\n\n"}
{"id": "16216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16216", "title": "Joris Ivens", "text": "Joris Ivens\n\nGeorg Henri Anton \"Joris\" Ivens (18 November 1898 – 28 June 1989) was a Dutch documentary filmmaker. Among the notable films he directed or co-directed are \"A Tale of the Wind\", \"The Spanish Earth\", \"Rain\", \"...A Valparaiso\", \"Misère au Borinage\" (\"Borinage\"), \"\", \"The Seine Meets Paris\", \"Far from Vietnam\", \"Pour le Mistral\" and \"How Yukong Moved the Mountains\".\n\nBorn Georg Henri Anton Ivens into a wealthy family, Ivens went to work in one of his father's photo supply shops and from there developed an interest in film. Under the direction of his father, he completed his first film at 13; in college he studied economics with the goal of continuing his father's business, but an interest in class issues distracted him from that path. He met photographer Germaine Krull in Berlin in 1923, and entered into a marriage of convenience with her between 1927 and 1943 so that Krull could hold a Dutch passport and could have a \"veneer of married respectability without sacrificing her autonomy.\"\n\nOriginally his work focused on technique, especially in \"Rain\" (\"Regen\", 1929), a 10-minute short filmed over 2 years, and in \"The Bridge\" (\"De Brug\", 1928). Around this time, along with Menno ter Braak and others, he was involved in the creation of the Dutch Film League () based in Amsterdam. The League drew foreign filmmakers to the Netherlands such as Alberto Cavalcanti, René Clair, Sergei Eisenstein, Vsevolod Pudovkin, and Dziga Vertov, who also became his friends.\n\nIn 1929, Ivens went to the Soviet Union and was invited to direct a film on a topic of his own choosing which was the new industrial city of Magnitogorsk. Before commencing work, he returned to the Netherlands to make \"Industrial Symphony\" for Philips Electric which is considered to be a film of great technical beauty. He returned to the Soviet Union to make the film about Magnitogorsk, \"Song of Heroes \" in 1931 with music composed by Hanns Eisler. This was the first film on which Ivens and Eisler worked together. It was a propaganda film about this new industrial city where masses of forced laborers and communist youth worked for Stalin´s Five Year Plan.\nWith Henri Storck, Ivens made \"Misère au Borinage\" (\"Borinage\", 1933), a documentary on life in a coal mining region. In 1943, he also directed two Allied propaganda films for the National Film Board of Canada, including \"Action Stations\", about the Royal Canadian Navy's escorting of convoys in the Battle of the Atlantic.\n\nFrom 1936 to 1945, Ivens was based in the United States. For Pare Lorentz's U.S. Film Service, in the year 1940, he made a documentary film on rural electrification called \"Power and the Land\". It focused on a family, the Parkinsons, who ran a business providing milk for their community. The film showed the problem in the lack of electricity and the way the problem was fixed. Ivens was, however, known for his anti-fascist and other propaganda films, including \"The Spanish Earth\", for the Spanish Republicans, co-written with Ernest Hemingway and music by Marc Blitzstein and Virgil Thomson. Jean Renoir did the French narration for the film and Hemingway did the English version only after Orson Welles's sounded too theatrical.. This film was financed by Archibald MacLeish, Fredric March, Florence Eldridge, Lillian Hellman, Luise Rainer, Dudley Nichols, Franchot Tone and other Hollywood movie stars, moguls, and writers who composed a group known as the Contemporary Historians. \" Spanish Earth \" was shown at the White House on July 8, 1937 after Ivens, Hemingway, Martha Gellhorn, had had dinner with President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Eleanor Roosevelt and Harry Hopkins. The Roosevelts loved the film but said that it needed more propaganda. This 1937 documentary was considered his masterpiece.\n\nIn 1938 he traveled to China. \"The 400 Million\" (1939) depicted the history of modern China and the Chinese resistance during the Second Sino-Japanese War, including dramatic shots of the Battle of Taierzhuang. Robert Capa did camerawork, Sidney Lumet worked on the film as a reader, Hanns Eisler wrote the musical score, and Fredric March provided the narration. It, too, had been financed by the same people as those of \"Spanish Earth\". Its chief fundraiser was Luise Rainer, recipient of the best actress Oscar two years in a row; and the entire group called themselves this time, \"History Today, Inc \". The Guomindang government censored the film, fearing that it would give too much credit to left-wing forces. Ivens was also suspected of being a friend of Mao Zedong and especially Zhou Enlai.\n\nIn early 1943, Frank Capra hired Ivens to supervise the production of \"Know Your Enemy: Japan \" for his U.S. War Department film series \"Why We Fight\". The film's commentary was written largely by Carl Foreman. Capra fired Ivens from the project because he felt that his approach was too sympathetic toward the Japanese. The film's release was held up because there were concerns that Emperor Hirohito was being depicted as a war criminal, and there was a policy shift to portray the Emperor more favorably after the war as a means of maintaining order in post-war Japan.\n\nWith the emerging \"Red Scare\" of the late 1940s, Ivens was forced to leave the country in the early months of the Truman administration. Ivens' leftist politics also put the kibosh on his first feature film project which was to have starred Greta Garbo. In fact, Walter Wanger, the film's producer, was adamant about \"running him {Ivens} out of town {Hollywood}.\"\n\nIn 1946, commissioned to make a Dutch film about Indonesian 'independence', Ivens resigned in protest over what he considered ongoing imperialism; the Dutch were in his view resisting decolonization. Instead, Ivens filmed \"Indonesia Calling\" in secret. For around a decade Ivens lived in Eastern Europe, working for several studios there. His position concerning Indonesia and his taking sides for the Eastern Bloc in the Cold War annoyed the Dutch government. Over a period of many years, he was obliged to renew his passport every three or four months. According to later mythology however, he lost his passport for ten years, which is not true, as demonstrated by the fact that he was able to travel to New York City to sit by the bedside of his old friend Paul Robeson when he was ill.\n\nFrom 1965 to 1970 he filmed two propaganda films about North Vietnam during the war: he made \"\" \"(17th Parallel: Vietnam in War)\" and he participated in the collective work \"Loin du Vietnam\" (\"Far from Vietnam\"). He was awarded the Lenin Peace Prize for the year 1967.\n\nFrom 1971 to 1977, he shot \"How Yukong Moved the Mountains\", a 763-minute propaganda documentary about the Cultural Revolution in China. He was given unprecedented access because of his pro-communist views and his old personal friendships with Zhou Enlai and Mao Zedong.\n\nIn 1988 Ivens received the Golden Lion Honorary Award at the Venice Film Festival. He then received the Order of the Netherlands Lion in January 1989, and died on 28 June that year. Shortly before his death he released the last of more than 40 films \"Une histoire de vent\" (\"A Tale of the Wind\"). A statue of Ivens by sculptor Bryan McCormack was erected in the Parc de Saint-Cloud in Paris in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "565325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=565325", "title": "Kindertotenlieder", "text": "Kindertotenlieder\n\nThe original were a group of 428 poems written by Rückert in 1833–34 in an outpouring of grief following the illness (scarlet fever) and death of two of his children. Karen Painter describes the poems thus: \"Rückert's 428 poems on the death of children became singular, almost manic documents of the psychological endeavor to cope with such loss. In ever new variations Rückert's poems attempt a poetic resuscitation of the children that is punctuated by anguished outbursts. But above all the poems show a quiet acquiescence to fate and to a peaceful world of solace.\" These poems were not intended for publication, and they appeared in print only in 1871, five years after the poet's death.\n\nMahler selected five of Rückert's poems to set as Lieder, which he composed between 1901 and 1904. The songs are written in Mahler's late-romantic idiom, and like the texts reflect a mixture of feelings: anguish, fantasy resuscitation of the children, resignation. The final song ends in a major key and a mood of transcendence.\n\nThe cello melody in the postlude to \"\" (mm. 129–133) alludes to the first subject of the finale of Mahler's Symphony No. 3 (1895/96), a movement titled \"What love tells me\" (\"\"). \"Musically, then, this is the last word of the : that death is powerful, yet love is even stronger.\"\n\nHefling indicates that Mahler composed the first, third, and fourth songs in 1901 (he played them for his friend Natalie Bauer-Lechner on 10 August). There followed a long break, and the remaining songs were composed in the summer of 1904.\n\nThe work was premiered in Vienna on 29 January 1905. Friedrich Weidemann, a leading baritone at the Vienna Court Opera, was the soloist, and the composer conducted. The hall was selected as a relatively small one, compatible with the intimacy of the lied genre, and the orchestra was a chamber orchestra consisting of players drawn from the Vienna Philharmonic.\n\nThe work is scored for a vocal soloist (the notes lie comfortably for a baritone or mezzo-soprano) and an orchestra consisting of piccolo, 2 flutes, 2 oboes, cor anglais (English horn), 2 clarinets, bass clarinet, 2 bassoons, contrabassoon, 4 horns, timpani, glockenspiel, tam-tam, celesta, harp, and strings. There are no trumpets. Deployed at chamber-orchestra scale, this instrumentation permitted Mahler to explore a wide variety of timbres within a smaller-scale sound; Tunbridge sees this as a new precedent adopted by later composers; for instance Schoenberg in \"Pierrot Lunaire\".\n\nConcerning the performance of the work, the composer wrote \"these five songs are intended as one inseparate unit, and in performing them their continuity should not be interfered with\".\n\nThe work takes about 25 minutes to perform.\n\nAt the time he wrote the work Mahler was no stranger to the deaths of children. Hefling writes, \"Such tragedy was familiar to Mahler, eight of his siblings died during their childhood. Among all of them, the death of his closest younger brother Ernst in 1874 had affected him most deeply, and he confided to [his friend] Natalie [Bauer-Lechner] that \"such frightful sorrow he had never again experienced, as great a loss he had nevermore borne.\"\n\nIn 1904, when Mahler resumed the composition of the interrupted work (see above), it was only two weeks after the birth of his own second child, upsetting his wife Alma, who \"found it incomprehensible and feared Mahler was tempting Providence.\"\n\nAlma's fears proved all too prescient, as four years after the work had been completed the Mahlers' daughter Maria, aged four, died of scarlet fever. Mahler wrote to Guido Adler: \"I placed myself in the situation that a child of mine had died. When I really lost my daughter, I could not have written these songs any more.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23550251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23550251", "title": "Lawrence Oates", "text": "Lawrence Oates\n\nCaptain Lawrence Edward Grace \"Titus\" Oates (17 March 188016 March 1912) was a British army officer, and later an Antarctic explorer, who died during the \"Terra Nova\" Expedition. Oates, afflicted with gangrene and frostbite, walked from his tent into a blizzard. His death is seen as an act of self-sacrifice when, aware that his ill health was compromising his three companions' chances of survival, he chose certain death.\n\nOates was born in Putney, London in 1880, the son of William and Caroline Oates. His family was wealthy, having had land at Gestingthorpe, Essex, for centuries; his father moved the family there when his children were small after succeeding to the Manor of Over Hall, Gestingthorpe. His sister Lillian, a year older, married the Irish baritone and actor Frederick Ranalow. An uncle was the naturalist and African explorer Frank Oates.\n\nOates lived in Putney from 18851891. He was one of the first pupils to attend the nearby Willington School. He went on to Eton College but left after less than two years owing to ill health. He then attended an army \"crammer\", South Lynn School, Eastbourne. His father died of typhoid fever in Madeira in 1896.\n\nIn 1898, Oates was commissioned into the 3rd (Militia) Battalion of the West Yorkshire Regiment. He saw active service during the Second Boer War as a junior officer in the 6th (Inniskilling) Dragoons, having been transferred to that cavalry regiment as a second lieutenant in May 1900. He took part in operations in the Transvaal, the Orange River Colony, and Cape Colony. In March 1901 a gunshot wound shattered his left thigh bone, leaving it an inch shorter than the right. Twice called upon to surrender in that engagement, he replied, \"We came to fight, not to surrender.\" He was recommended for the Victoria Cross for his actions and was brought to public attention.\n\nHe was promoted to lieutenant in 1902, and left Cape Town for England after peace was signed in South Africa. He was mentioned in despatches by Lord Kitchener in his final despatch dated 23 June 1902. He was promoted to captain in 1906, and served in Ireland, Egypt, and India. He was often referred to by the nickname \"Titus Oates\", after the historical figure.\n\nIn 1910, he applied to join Robert Falcon Scott's expedition to the South Pole, and was accepted mainly on the strength of his experience with horses and, to a lesser extent, his ability to make a financial contribution of £1,000 (2018 approximation £110,000 ) towards the expedition. Nicknamed \"the soldier\" by his fellow expedition members, his role was to look after the nineteen ponies that Scott intended to use for sledge hauling during the initial food depot-laying stage and the first half of the trip to the South Pole. Scott eventually selected him as one of the five-man party who would travel the final distance to the Pole.\n\nOates disagreed with Scott many times on issues of management of the expedition. 'Their natures jarred on one another,' a fellow expedition member recalled. When he first saw the ponies that Scott had brought on the expedition, Oates was horrified at the £5 animals, which he said were too old for the job and 'a wretched load of crocks.' He later said: 'Scott's ignorance about marching with animals is colossal.' He also wrote in his diary \"Myself, I dislike Scott intensely and would chuck the whole thing if it were not that we are a British expedition...He is not straight, it is himself first, the rest nowhere...\" However, he also wrote that his harsh words were often a product of the hard conditions. Scott, less harshly, called Oates \"the cheery old pessimist\" and wrote \"The Soldier takes a gloomy view of everything, but I've come to see that this is a characteristic of him\".\n\nCaptain Scott, Captain Oates and 14 other members of the expedition set off from their Cape Evans base camp for the South Pole on 1 November 1911. At various pre-determined latitude points during the journey, the support members of the expedition were sent back by Scott in teams until on 4 January 1912, at latitude 87° 32' S, only the five-man polar party of Scott, Edward A. Wilson, Henry R. Bowers, Edgar Evans and Oates remained to walk the last to the Pole. On 18 January 1912, 79 days after starting their journey, they finally reached the Pole only to discover a tent that Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen and his four-man team had left behind at their Polheim camp after beating them in the race to be first to the Pole. Inside the tent was a note from Amundsen informing them that his party had reached the South Pole on 14 December 1911, beating Scott's party by 35 days.\n\nScott's party faced extremely difficult conditions on the return journey, mainly due to the exceptionally adverse weather, poor food supply, injuries sustained from falls, and the effects of scurvy and frostbite. On 17 February 1912, near the foot of the Beardmore glacier, Edgar Evans died, perhaps from a blow to the head suffered in a fall days earlier. Oates' feet had become severely frostbitten and it has been suggested (but never evidenced) that scurvy had reopened his war wound. He was certainly weakening faster than the others. Scott wrote in his diary on 5 March: \"Oates' feet are in a wretched condition... The poor soldier is very nearly done.\"\nOates' slower progress was causing the party to fall behind schedule. With an average of between the pre-laid food depotswhich each provided a week's food and fuelthey needed to cover per day to have full rations for the final across the Ross Ice Shelf. However, was about their best progress on any day and this had lately reduced to sometimes only due to Oates' worsening condition. On 15 March, Oates told his companions that he could not go on and proposed that they leave him in his sleeping-bag, which they refused to do. He managed a few more miles that day but his condition worsened that night.\n\nOn the morning of 16 March (or possibly 15 MarchScott was unsure) Oates walked out of the tent into a blizzard to his death. Scott wrote in his diary: \"We knew that poor Oates was walking to his death, but though we tried to dissuade him, we knew it was the act of a brave man and an English gentleman.\"\nAccording to Scott's diary, as Oates left the tent he said, \"I am just going outside and may be some time\", though Edward Adrian Wilson, who was also present, made no reference to this in his own diary or the letters to Oates' mother. Oates most likely died on March 17.\n\nScott, Wilson and Bowers continued onwards for a further towards the 'One Ton' food depot that could save them but were halted at latitude 79°40'S by a fierce blizzard on 20 March. Trapped in their tent and too weak and cold to continue, they died nine days later, eleven miles short of their objective. Their frozen bodies were discovered by a search party on 12 November 1912; Oates' body was never found. Near where he was presumed to have died, the search party erected a cairn and cross bearing the inscription; \"Hereabouts died a very gallant gentleman, Captain L. E. G. Oates, of the Inniskilling Dragoons. In March 1912, returning from the Pole, he walked willingly to his death in a blizzard, to try and save his comrades, beset by hardships.\"\n\nOates' reindeer-skin sleeping bag was recovered and is now displayed in the museum of the Scott Polar Research Institute in Cambridge with other items from the expedition.\n\nThe Oates Museum at Gilbert White's House, Selborne, Hampshire focuses on the lives of Lawrence Oates and his uncle Frank.\n\nThe Royal Dragoon Guards, the successor to the 6th (Inniskilling) Dragoons, have a regimental day to remember Oates. His Queen's South Africa Medal with bars and Polar Medal are held by the regimental museum in York. The then Inniskilling Dragoon Guards was reportedly given £20,000 to help purchase the medals by Sir Jack Hayward.\n\nIn 1913 his brother officers erected a brass memorial plaque to him in the parish church of St Mary the Virgin in Gestingthorpe, Essex, which his mother, Caroline, faithfully polished weekly for the rest of her life. The church is opposite his family home of Gestingthorpe Hall.\n\nIn May 1914 a memorial to Oates was placed in the cloister of the newly built School Library at Eton College, itself part of the Boer War Memorial Buildings. It was executed by Kathleen Scott, the widow of the expedition's leader.\n\nThe Lawrence Oates school in Meanwood, Leeds (closed 1992), was named after him. On the 100th anniversary of his death, a blue plaque was unveiled in his honour at Meanwood Park, Leeds.\n\nOn 17 March 2007 The Putney Society unveiled a blue plaque at the site of Oates' childhood home of 263 Upper Richmond Road, Putney, London. The current address is 307 Upper Richmond Road.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40417364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40417364", "title": "Lucy Gwynne Branham", "text": "Lucy Gwynne Branham\n\nLucy Gwynne Branham (1892 in Kempsville, Virginia - 1966) was an American suffragist associated with the National Women's Party. \n\nShe earned degrees in history from Washington College in Maryland, and Johns Hopkins University (Master's degree). \n\nWhile teaching in Florida, she received a Carnegie Medal for saving Dema T. Nelson from drowning in the ocean in 1915. She began work on a Ph.D. at Columbia University under Charles A. Beard, but, in the words of historian Julia L. Mickenberg, Branham \"turned from academia to activism, becoming a field organizer for the NWP.\" Historian Katherine A. S. Siegel notes that, \"In 1916, Branham put her studies aside to begin work in the National Woman's Party.\" Siegel writes that Branham \"worked tirelessly for suffrage and, when she could, on the readings Beard assigned her,\" and she began teaching history in Columbia's adult extension program in the fall of 1920, but she left within a year to go to Russia as a representative of the \"New York Herald\" - Armand Hammer described her as the \"suffragette history professor.\" Although the dissertation she was working on (\"The History of Labor and Politics in New York\") was listed as being \"in progress\" with an expected completion date of 1922, Columbia University \"has no record that Branham ever finished her Ph.D.\" Her Johns Hopkins master's thesis (\"An Outline of the Political History of Georgia, During the Revolutionary War\") is the \"only\" thesis or dissertation listed under her name in WorldCat, so Branham must have been ABD and never finished her doctorate, concentrating on activism rather than academe.\n\nIn 1916, she was a National Women's Party organizer in Utah, and in September of the following year she was arrested for picketing the White House as part of the Silent Sentinels, a NWP campaign for women's suffrage, for which she served two months in the Occoquan Workhouse and the District jail.\n\nIn 1918, Branham lobbied in Georgia, Tennessee, and Alabama for a federal amendment in the Senate that would legalize women's suffrage. She traveled around America speaking of her experiences in prison as part of the NWP's \"Prison Special\" tour of 1919. Also in 1919, Branham burned a letter from President Woodrow Wilson in Lafayette Square to protest for women's suffrage.\n\nAfter women's suffrage was obtained, she led the Inez Milholland Memorial Fund Committee, which created an ongoing endowment fund for the NWP. Branham worked for Russian relief with the American Women's Emergency Committee, and lobbied Congress against the Allied blockade of Russia; worked with the American Friends Service Committee; served as field secretary for Russian Reconstruction Farms; headed the Women's Committee for the Recognition of Russia, which was under the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom; and was executive secretary of the American Society for Cultural Relations with Russia. She also worked with the World Woman's Party in Geneva and lobbied the League of Nations on equal rights issues. In the late 1950s she lived at Sewall-Belmont House and served on the NWP's Congressional Committee to lobby for the Equal Rights Amendment.\n\nBranham's mother, Lucy Fisher Gwynne Branham, was also a suffragist, and was arrested for her part in the watch fire demonstrations in January 1919 and served three days in the District jail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2521252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2521252", "title": "Maria Manuela, Princess of Portugal", "text": "Maria Manuela, Princess of Portugal\n\nDona Maria Manuela (15 October 1527 – 12 July 1545) was the eldest daughter and second child of King John III of Portugal and his wife Catherine of Austria. She was Princess of Asturias and Duchess of Milan as the first wife of the future Philip II of Spain, and Princess of Portugal as heir presumptive to the Portuguese throne between 1527 and 1535.\n\nMaria was born in Coimbra on 15 October 1527 and was one of the few children of John III to survive childhood. In her youth, Maria received a humanistic education that was considered typical for a princess of her time.\n\nShe married her cousin Philip II of Spain on 12 November 1543 at Salamanca. As she was to be married to the Prince of Asturias, heir apparent to the Spanish crown, and being an Infanta of Portugal, their wedding became one of the most remarkable in the history of Spain due to its opulence. Contemporary writers have left detailed descriptions of the journey from Madrid to Badajoz to Salamanca to receive the princess and of the luxuries she was given by the Duke of Medina Sidonia in Badajoz.\n\nShe gave birth to their son Carlos on 8 July 1545 in Valladolid, but died four days later due to a haemorrhage. She was initially buried in the Royal Chapel of Granada on 30 March 1549 but was later transferred to Royal Crypt of the Monastery of El Escorial.\n\n"}
{"id": "1655068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1655068", "title": "Mortuary temple", "text": "Mortuary temple\n\nMortuary temples (or funerary temples) were temples that were erected adjacent to, or in the vicinity of, royal tombs in Ancient Egypt. The temples were designed to commemorate the reign of the Pharaoh under whom they were constructed, as well as for use by the king's cult after death.\n\nMortuary temples were built around pyramids in the Old Kingdom and Middle Kingdom. However, once the New Kingdom pharaohs began constructing tombs in the Valley of the Kings, they built their mortuary temples separately. These New Kingdom temples were called \"mansions of millions of years\" by the Egyptians.\n\nThe mortuary temples were also used as a resting place for the boat of Amun at the time of the Beautiful Festival of the Valley, during which the cult statue of the deity visited the west bank of Thebes.\n\nThe first mortuary temple was built for Amenhotep I of the 18th dynasty during the New Kingdom. Several other rulers of this dynasty built temples for the same purpose, the best known being those at Deir el-Bahari, where Hatshepsut built beside the funerary temple of Mentuhotep II, and that of Amenhotep III, of which the only major extant remains are the Colossi of Memnon.\n\nLater rulers of the 18th Dynasty either failed to build here at all or, in the case of Tutankhamun, Ay and Horemheb, their construction was not completed. The 19th Dynasty ruler Seti I constructed his temple at what is now known as Gurna. Part of his \"Glorious temple of Seti Merenptah in the field of Amun which resides at the West of Thebes\" was dedicated to his father Ramesses I, whose short reign prevented him from building his own, and was completed by his son Ramesses II.\n\nRamesses II constructed his own temple, referred to as the Ramesseum (a name given to it by Champollion in 1829): \"Temple of a million years of Usermaatre Setepenre which is linked with Thebes-the-Quoted in the Field of Amun, in the West\".\n\nMuch later, during the 20th Dynasty, Ramesses III constructed his own temple at Medinet Habu.\n"}
{"id": "49781138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49781138", "title": "NhaB family", "text": "NhaB family\n\nThe NhaB family (TC# 2.A.34) belongs to the Ion Transporter (IT) Superfamily. A representative list of proteins belonging to the NhaB family can be found in the Transporter Classification Database.\n\nNhaB homologues are usually about 500 amino acyl residues (aas) in length and possess about 12 transmembrane α-helical spanners (TMSs), although some members differ in their number of TMSs. NhaB homologues also exhibit a region with limited sequence similarity to a 46 kDa membrane protein of unknown function from \"Mycobacterium leprae\" (spP46838) which is also homologous to a member of arsenate resistance pumps of bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes (TC# 3.A.4). Only Gram-negative bacterial proteins have been functionally characterized.\n\nThe \"E. coli\" NhaB is 58% identical to the orthologous \"Vibrio alginolyticus\" Na/H antiporter. Although the latter protein is predicted to exhibit 10 TMSs, construction of \"NhaB-phoA\" fusions led to evidence for a 9 TMS model with the N-terminus in the cytoplasm and the C-terminus in the periplasm. A centrally located aspartyl residue in the 3rd TMS is conserved in all members of the family and important for activity.\n\nThe generalized transport reaction catalyzed by NhaB of \"E. coli\" is:2 Na (in) + 3 H (out) ⇌ 2 Na (out) + 3 H (in).\n\n"}
{"id": "64719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64719", "title": "Paul Gauguin", "text": "Paul Gauguin\n\nEugène Henri Paul Gauguin (, ; ; 7 June 1848 – 8 May 1903) was a French post-Impressionist artist. Unappreciated until after his death, Gauguin is now recognized for his experimental use of color and Synthetist style that were distinctly different from Impressionism. Toward the end of his life, he spent ten years in French Polynesia, and most of his paintings from this time depict people or landscapes from that region.\n\nHis work was influential to the French avant-garde and many modern artists, such as Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse. Gauguin's art became popular after his death, partially from the efforts of art dealer Ambroise Vollard, who organized exhibitions of his work late in his career and assisted in organizing two important posthumous exhibitions in Paris. Gauguin was an important figure in the Symbolist movement as a painter, sculptor, printmaker, ceramist, and writer. His expression of the inherent meaning of the subjects in his paintings, under the influence of the cloisonnist style, paved the way to Primitivism and the return to the pastoral. He was also an influential proponent of wood engraving and woodcuts as art forms.\n\nGauguin was born in Paris to Clovis Gauguin and Alina Maria Chazal on June 7, 1848. His birth coincided with revolutionary upheavals throughout Europe that year. His father, a 34-year-old liberal journalist, came from a family of petits bourgeois entrepreneurs residing in Orléans. He was compelled to flee France when the newspaper for which he wrote was suppressed by French authorities. Gauguin's mother was the 22-year-old daughter of André Chazal, an engraver, and Flora Tristan, an author and activist in early socialist movements. Their union ended when André assaulted his wife Flora and was sentenced to prison for attempted murder.\n\nPaul Gauguin's maternal grandmother, Flora Tristan, was the illegitimate daughter of Thérèse Laisnay and Don Mariano de Tristan Moscoso. Details of Thérèse's family background are not known; her father, Don Mariano, came from an aristocratic Spanish family from the Peruvian city of Arequipa. He was an officer of the Dragoons. Members of the wealthy Tristan Moscoso family held powerful positions in Peru. Nonetheless, Don Mariano's unexpected death plunged his mistress and daughter Flora into poverty. When Flora's marriage with André failed, she petitioned for and obtained a small monetary settlement from her father's Peruvian relatives. She sailed to Peru in hopes of enlarging her share of the Tristan Moscoso family fortune. This never materialized; but she successfully published a popular travelogue of her experiences in Peru which launched her literary career in 1838. An active supporter of early socialist societies, Gauguin's maternal grandmother helped to lay the foundations for the 1848 revolutionary movements. Placed under surveillance by French police and suffering from overwork, she died in 1844. Her grandson Paul \"idolized his grandmother, and kept copies of her books with him to the end of his life.\"\n\nIn 1850, Clovis Gauguin departed for Peru with his wife Alina and young children in hopes of continuing his journalistic career under the auspices of his wife's South American relations. He died of a heart attack en route, and Alina arrived in Peru a widow with the 18-month-old Paul and his 2½ year-old sister, Marie. Gauguin's mother was welcomed by her paternal granduncle, whose son-in-law would shortly assume the presidency of Peru. To the age of six, Paul enjoyed a privileged upbringing, attended by nursemaids and servants. He retained a vivid memory of that period of his childhood which instilled \"indelible impressions of Peru that haunted him the rest of his life.\"\n\nGauguin's idyllic childhood ended abruptly when his family mentors fell from political power during Peruvian civil conflicts in 1854. Aline returned to France with her children, leaving Paul with his paternal grandfather, Guillaume Gauguin, in Orléans. Deprived by the Peruvian Tristan Moscoso clan of a generous annuity arranged by her granduncle, Alina settled in Paris to work as a dressmaker.\n\nAfter attending a couple of local schools, Gauguin was sent to the prestigious Catholic boarding school Petit Séminaire de La Chapelle-Saint-Mesmin. He spent three years at the school. At age fourteen, he entered the Loriol Institute in Paris, a naval preparatory school, before returning to Orléans to take his final year at the Lycée Jeanne D'Arc. Gauguin signed on as a pilot's assistant in the merchant marine. Three years later, he joined the French navy in which he served for two years. His mother died on 7 July 1867, but he did not learn of it for several months until a letter from his sister Marie caught up with him in India.\n\nIn 1871, Gauguin returned to Paris where he secured a job as a stockbroker. A close family friend, Gustave Arosa, got him a job at the Paris Bourse; Gauguin was 23. He became a successful Parisian businessman and remained one for the next 11 years. In 1879 he was earning 30,000 francs a year (about $125,000 in 2008 US dollars) as a stockbroker, and as much again in his dealings in the art market. But in 1882 the Paris stock market crashed and the art market contracted. Gauguin's earnings deteriorated sharply and he eventually decided to pursue painting full-time.\n\nIn 1873, he married a Danish woman, Mette-Sophie Gad (1850–1920). Over the next ten years, they had five children: Émile (1874–1955); Aline (1877–1897); Clovis (1879–1900); Jean René (1881–1961); and Paul Rollon (1883–1961). By 1884, Gauguin had moved with his family to Copenhagen, Denmark, where he pursued a business career as a tarpaulin salesman. It was not a success: He could not speak Danish, and the Danes did not want French tarpaulins. Mette became the chief breadwinner, giving French lessons to trainee diplomats.\n\nHis middle-class family and marriage fell apart after 11 years when Gauguin was driven to paint full-time. He returned to Paris in 1885, after his wife and her family asked him to leave because he had renounced the values they shared. Gauguin's last physical contact with them was in 1891, Mette eventually breaking with him decisively in 1894.\n\nIn 1873, around the same time as he became a stockbroker, Gauguin began painting in his free time. His Parisian life centred on the 9th arrondissement of Paris. Gauguin lived at 15, rue la Bruyère. Nearby were the cafés frequented by the Impressionists. Gauguin also visited galleries frequently and purchased work by emerging artists. He formed a friendship with Camille Pissarro and visited him on Sundays to paint in his garden. Pissarro introduced him to various other artists. In 1877 Gauguin \"moved downmarket and across the river to the poorer, newer, urban sprawls\" of Vaugirard. Here, on the third floor at 8 rue Carcel, he had the first home in which he had a studio. His close friend Émile Schuffenecker, a former stockbroker who also aspired to become an artist, lived close by. Gauguin showed paintings in Impressionist exhibitions held in 1881 and 1882 (earlier, a sculpture of his son Émile had been the only sculpture in the 4th Impressionist Exhibition of 1879). His paintings received dismissive reviews, although several of them, such as \"The Market Gardens of Vaugirard\", are now highly regarded.\n\nIn 1882, the stock market crashed and the art market contracted. Paul Durand-Ruel, the Impressionists' primary art dealer, was especially affected by the crash and for a period of time stopped buying pictures from painters such as Gauguin. Gauguin's earnings contracted sharply and over the next two years he slowly formulated his plans to become a full-time artist. The following two summers, he painted with Pissarro and occasionally Paul Cézanne. In October 1883, he wrote to Pissarro saying that he had decided to make his living from painting at all cost and asked for his help, which Pissarro at first readily provided. The following January, Gauguin moved with his family to Rouen, where they could live more cheaply and where he thought he had discerned opportunities when visiting Pissarro there the previous summer. However, the venture proved unsuccessful, and by the end of the year Mette and the children moved to Copenhagen, Gauguin following shortly after in November 1884, bringing with him his art collection, which subsequently remained in Copenhagen.\n\nLife in Copenhagen proved equally difficult and their marriage grew strained. At Mette's urging, supported by her family, Gauguin returned to Paris the following year.\n\nGauguin returned to Paris in June 1885, accompanied by his six-year-old son Clovis. The other children remained with Mette in Copenhagen, where they had the support of family and friends while Mette herself was able to get work as a translator and French teacher. Gauguin initially found it difficult to re-enter the art world in Paris and spent his first winter back in real poverty, obliged to take a series of menial jobs. Clovis eventually fell ill and was sent to a boarding school, Gauguin's sister Marie providing the funds. During this first year, Gauguin produced very little art. He exhibited nineteen paintings and a wood relief at the eighth (and last) Impressionist exhibition in May 1886. Most of these paintings were earlier work from Rouen or Copenhagen and there was nothing really novel in the few new ones, although his \"Baigneuses à Dieppe\" (\"Women Bathing\") introduced what was to become a recurring motif, the woman in the waves. Nevertheless, Félix Bracquemond did purchase one of his paintings. This exhibition also established Georges Seurat as leader of the \"avant-garde\" movement in Paris. Gauguin contemptuously rejected Seurat's Neo-Impressionist Pointillist technique and later in the year broke decisively with Pissarro, who from that point on was rather antagonistic towards Gauguin.\n\nGauguin spent the summer of 1886 in the artist's colony of Pont-Aven in Brittany. He was attracted in the first place because it was cheap to live there. However, he found himself an unexpected success with the young art students who flocked there in the summer. His naturally pugilistic temperament (he was both an accomplished boxer and fencer) was no impediment in the socially relaxed seaside resort. He was remembered during that period as much for his outlandish appearance as for his art. Amongst these new associates was Charles Laval, who would accompany Gauguin the following year to Panama and Martinique.\n\nThat summer, he executed some pastel drawings of nude figures in the manner of Pissarro and those by Degas exhibited at the 1886 eighth Impressionist exhibition. He mainly painted landscapes such as \"La Bergère Bretonne\" (\"The Breton Shepherdess\"), in which the figure plays a subordinate role. His \"Jeunes Bretons au bain\" (\"Young Breton Boys Bathing\"), introducing a theme he returned to each time he visited Pont-Aven, is clearly indebted to Degas in its design and bold use of pure color. The naive drawings of the English illustrator Randolph Caldecott, used to illustrate a popular guide-book on Brittany, had caught the imagination of the \"avant-garde\" student artists at Pont-Aven, anxious to free themselves from the conservatism of their academies, and Gauguin consciously imitated them in his sketches of Breton girls. These sketches were later worked up into paintings back in his Paris studio. The most important of these is \"Four Breton Women\", which shows a marked departure from his earlier Impressionist style as well as incorporating something of the naive quality of Caldecott's illustration, exaggerating features to the point of caricature.\n\nGauguin, along with Émile Bernard, Charles Laval, Émile Schuffenecker and many others, re-visited Pont-Aven after his travels in Panama and Martinique. The bold use of pure color and Symbolist choice of subject matter distinguish what is now called the Pont-Aven School. Disappointed with Impressionism, Gauguin felt that traditional European painting had become too imitative and lacked symbolic depth. By contrast, the art of Africa and Asia seemed to him full of mystic symbolism and vigour. There was a vogue in Europe at the time for the art of other cultures, especially that of Japan (Japonism). He was invited to participate in the 1889 exhibition organized by Les XX.\n\nUnder the influence of folk art and Japanese prints, Gauguin's work evolved towards Cloisonnism, a style given its name by the critic Édouard Dujardin to describe Émile Bernard's method of painting with flat areas of color and bold outlines, which reminded Dujardin of the Medieval cloisonné enameling technique. Gauguin was very appreciative of Bernard's art and of his daring with the employment of a style which suited Gauguin in his quest to express the essence of the objects in his art. In Gauguin's \"The Yellow Christ\" (1889), often cited as a quintessential Cloisonnist work, the image was reduced to areas of pure color separated by heavy black outlines. In such works Gauguin paid little attention to classical perspective and boldly eliminated subtle gradations of color, thereby dispensing with the two most characteristic principles of post-Renaissance painting. His painting later evolved towards Synthetism in which neither form nor color predominate but each has an equal role.\n\nIn 1887, after having visited Panama, Gauguin spent the time from June to November near Saint Pierre on the Caribbean island of Martinique, accompanied by his friend the artist Charles Laval. His thoughts and experiences during this time are recorded in his letters to his wife Mette and his artist friend Emile Schuffenecker. He arrived in Martinique by way of Panama where he had found himself broke and without a job. At the time France had a policy of repatriation where if a citizen became broke or stranded on a French colony, the state would pay for the boat ride back. Upon leaving Panama protected by the repatriation policy, Gauguin and Laval decided to get off the boat at the Martinique port of St. Pierre. Scholars are in disagreement if Gauguin intentionally or spontaneously decided to stay on the island. At first, the 'negro hut' in which they lived suited him, and he enjoyed watching people in their daily activities. However, the weather in the summer was hot and the hut leaked in the rain. Gauguin also suffered dysentery and marsh fever. While in Martinique, he produced between 10 and 20 works (12 being the most common estimate), traveled widely and apparently came into contact with a small community of Indian immigrants; a contact that would later influence his art through the incorporation of Indian symbols. During his stay, the writer Lafcadio Hearn was also on the island. His account provides an historical comparison to accompany Gauguin's images.\n\nGauguin finished 11 known paintings during his stay in Martinique, many of which seem to be derived from his hut. His letters to Schuffenecker express an excitement about the exotic location and natives represented in his paintings. Gauguin asserted that four of his paintings on the island were better than the rest. The works as a whole are brightly colored, loosely painted, outdoor figural scenes. Even though his time on the island was short, it surely was influential. He recycled some of his figures and sketches in later paintings, like the motif in \"Among the Mangoes\" which is replicated on his fans. Rural and indigenous populations remained a popular subject in Gauguin's work after he left the island.\n\nGauguin's Martinique paintings were exhibited at his color merchant Arsène Poitier's gallery. There they were seen and admired by Vincent van Gogh and his art dealer brother Theo van Gogh, whose firm Goupil & Cie had dealings with Portier. Theo purchased three of Gauguin's paintings for 900 francs and arranged to have them hung at Goupil's, thus introducing Gauguin to wealthy clients. At the same time Vincent and Gauguin became close friends (on van Gogh's part it amounted to something akin to adulation) and they corresponded together on art, a correspondence that was instrumental in Gauguin formulating his philosophy of art. The arrangement with Goupil's continued past Theo's death in January 1891.\n\nGauguin's relationship with Vincent proved fraught. In 1888, at Theo's instigation, Gauguin and Vincent spent nine weeks painting together at Vincent's Yellow House in Arles. Their relationship deteriorated and eventually Gauguin decided to leave. On the evening of 23 December 1888 according to a much later account of Gauguin's, van Gogh confronted Gauguin with a razor blade. Later the same evening, van Gogh cut off his own left ear. He wrapped the severed tissue in newspaper and handed it to a woman who worked at a brothel both Gauguin and van Gogh had visited, and asked her to \"keep this object carefully, in remembrance of me.\" Van Gogh was hospitalized the following day and Gauguin left Arles. They never saw each other again, but they continued to correspond and in 1890 Gauguin went so far as to propose they form an artist studio in Antwerp. An 1889 sculptural self-portrait \"Jug in the form of a Head, Self-portrait\" appears to reference Gauguin's traumatic relationship with van Gogh.\n\nGauguin later claimed to have been instrumental in influencing van Gogh's development as a painter at Arles. While van Gogh did briefly experiment with Gauguin's theory of painting from the imagination in paintings such as \"Memory of the Garden at Etten\", it did not suit him and he quickly returned to painting from nature.\n\nAlthough Gauguin made some of his early strides in the world of art under Pissarro, Edgar Degas was Gauguin's most admired contemporary artist and a great influence on his work from the beginning, with his figures and interiors as well as a carved and painted medallion of singer Valérie Roumi. He had a deep reverence for Degas' artistic dignity and tact. It was Gauguin's healthiest, longest lasting friendship, spanning his entire artistic career until his death.\n\nIn addition to being one of his earliest supporters, including buying Gauguin's work and persuading dealer Paul Durand-Ruel to do the same, there was never a public support for Gauguin more unwavering than from Degas. Gauguin also purchased work from Degas in the early to mid-1870s and his own monotyping predilection was probably influenced by Degas' advancements in the medium. Gauguin's Durand-Ruel exhibition in November 1893, which Degas chiefly organized, received mixed reviews. Among the mocking were Claude Monet, Pierre-Auguste Renoir and former friend Pissarro. Degas, however, praised his work, purchasing \"\" and admiring the exotic sumptuousness of Gauguin's conjured folklore. In appreciation, Gauguin presented Degas with \"The Moon and the Earth\", one of the exhibited paintings that had attracted the most hostile criticism. Gauguin's late canvas \"Riders on the Beach\" (two versions) recalls Degas' horse pictures which he started in the 1860s, specifically \"Racetrack\" and \"Before the Race\", testifying to his enduring effect on Gauguin. Degas later purchased two paintings at Gauguin's 1895 auction to raise funds for his final trip to Tahiti. These were \"Vahine no te vi (Woman with a Mango)\" and Gauguin's copy of Manet's \" Olympia\".\n\nBy 1890, Gauguin had conceived the project of making Tahiti his next artistic destination. A successful auction of paintings in Paris at the Hôtel Drouot in February 1891, along with other events such as a banquet and a benefit concert, provided the necessary funds. The auction had been greatly helped by a flattering review from Octave Mirbeau, courted by Gauguin through Camille Pissarro. After visiting his wife and children in Copenhagen, for what turned out to be the last time, Gauguin set sail for Tahiti on 1 April 1891, promising to return a rich man and make a fresh start. His avowed intent was to escape European civilization and \"everything that is artificial and conventional\". Nevertheless, he took care to take with him a collection of visual stimuli in the form of photographs, drawings and prints.\n"}
{"id": "2760602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2760602", "title": "Polyworld", "text": "Polyworld\n\nPolyworld is a cross-platform (Linux, Mac OS X) program written by Larry Yaeger to evolve Artificial Intelligence through natural selection and evolutionary algorithms. \n\nIt uses the Qt graphics toolkit and OpenGL to display a graphical environment in which a population of trapezoid agents search for food, mate, have offspring, and prey on each other. The population is typically only in the hundreds, as each individual is rather complex and the environment consumes considerable computer resources. The graphical environment is necessary since the individuals actually move around the 2-D plane and must be able to \"see.\" Since some basic abilities, like eating carcasses or randomly generated food, seeing other individuals, mating or fighting with them, etc., are possible, a number of interesting behaviours have been observed to spontaneously arise after prolonged evolution, such as cannibalism, predators and prey, and mimicry.\n\nEach individual makes decisions based on a neural net using Hebbian learning; the neural net is derived from each individual's genome. The genome does not merely specify the wiring of the neural nets, but also determines their size, speed, color, mutation rate and a number of other factors. The genome is randomly mutated at a set probability, which are also changed in descendant organisms.\n\n"}
{"id": "14140660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14140660", "title": "Ramon Zamora", "text": "Ramon Zamora\n\nRamon Artiaga Zamora (June 27, 1935 — August 26, 2007) was a Filipino film actor best known for his leading roles in local martial arts films and action movies of the 1970s. He was popularly dubbed as the \"Bruce Lee of the Philippines\".\n\nZamora was born in San Juan, Rizal. He began his entertainment career in 1953 as a stuntman and dancer for LVN Pictures. He persevered in the bodabil circuit, performing regularly at the Clover Theater and the Manila Grand Opera House. He also was a member of the Festival Dancers, a dance troupe which performed international tours regularly.\n\nFrom his stage performances, he was contracted in 1969 to star as a mainstay of the ABS-CBN gag show Super Laff-In. Zamora's most popular stock character in the show was a military-clad figure that bore an unmistakable physical resemblance to Adolf Hitler, who spoke in bastardized German and spouted catchphrases such as \"Isprakenheit\". The role won him the \"Best Actor Citizen's Award for Television\".\n\nWhen Super Laff-In's network ABS-CBN was closed upon the declaration of martial law in 1972, Zamora shifted gears and focused on a film career. He starred as the durable komiks character Pedro Penduko in the 1973 Celso Ad Castillo fantasy film \"Ang Mahiwagang Daigdig ni Pedro Penduko\". The resulting success of the film boosted Zamora's popularity, and he soon became one of the top box-office draws in Philippine cinema in the 1970s.\n\nZamora was especially popular for a string of locally produced martial arts films that emerged following the international success of Bruce Lee. Patterning his film persona around a Bruce Lee-type with a comedic twist, Zamora starred in such films as \"Shadow of the Dragon\" (1973), \"Cobra at Lawin\" (1973), \"Game of Death\" (1974), \"Return of the Dragon\" (1977), and \"Bruce Liit\" (1978).\n\nThen he played his villain role as Edu Manzano's right-hand man to Lito Lapid in an action packed movie \"Hindi Palulupig\" (1989)\n\nBy the 1980s, Zamora's career as a leading man petered out, and he returned to guest-starring in television programs, often in his \"Hitler\" guise. He also portrayed character roles in films, including one in the 1994 update of the Pedro Penduko saga now starring Janno Gibbs, \"Ang Pagbabalik ni Pedro Penduko\". At the time of his death from a heart attack in his Antipolo City home, Zamora had completed one last film that had yet to be released, \"Ataul for Rent\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56117", "title": "Shareholder rights plan", "text": "Shareholder rights plan\n\nA shareholder rights plan, colloquially known as a \"poison pill\", is a type of defensive tactic used by a corporation's board of directors against a takeover. Typically, such a plan gives shareholders the right to buy more shares at a discount if one shareholder buys a certain percentage or more of the company's shares. The plan could be triggered, for instance, if any one shareholder buys 20% of the company's shares, at which point every shareholder (except the one who possesses 20%) will have the right to buy a new issue of shares at a discount. If every other shareholder is able to buy more shares at a discount, such purchases would dilute the bidder's interest, and the cost of the bid would rise substantially. Knowing that such a plan could be activated, the bidder could be disinclined to take over the corporation without the board's approval, and would first negotiate with the board in order to revoke the plan.\n\nThe plan can be issued by the board of directors as an \"option\" or a \"warrant\" attached to existing shares, and only be revoked at the discretion of the board.\n\nIn the field of mergers and acquisitions, shareholder rights plans were devised in the early 1980s as a way to prevent takeover bidders from negotiating a price for sale of shares directly with shareholders, and instead forcing the bidder to negotiate with the board.\n\nThe poison pill was invented by mergers and acquisitions lawyer Martin Lipton of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz in 1982, as a response to tender-based hostile takeovers. Poison pills became popular during the early 1980s in response to the wave of takeovers by corporate raiders such as Carl Icahn. The term \"poison pill\" derives its original meaning from a poison pill physically carried by various spies throughout history, a pill which was taken by the spies when they were discovered to eliminate the possibility of being interrogated by an enemy.\n\nIt was reported in 2001 that since 1997, for every company with a poison pill which successfully resisted a hostile takeover, there were 20 companies with poison pills that accepted takeover offers. The trend since the early 2000s has been for shareholders to vote against poison pill authorization, since poison pills are designed to resist takeovers, whereas from the point of view of a shareholder, takeovers can be financially rewarding.\n\nSome have argued that poison pills are detrimental to shareholder interests because they perpetuate existing management. For instance, Microsoft originally made an unsolicited bid for Yahoo!, but subsequently dropped the bid after Yahoo! CEO Jerry Yang threatened to make the takeover as difficult as possible unless Microsoft raised the price to US$37 per share. One Microsoft executive commented, \"They are going to burn the furniture if we go hostile. They are going to destroy the place.\" Yahoo has had a shareholders rights plan in place since 2001. Analysts suggested that Microsoft's raised offer of $33 per share was already too expensive, and that Yang was not bargaining in good faith, which later led to several shareholder lawsuits and an aborted proxy fight from Carl Icahn. Yahoo's stock price plunged after Microsoft withdrew the bid, and Jerry Yang faced a backlash from stockholders that eventually led to his resignation.\n\nIn publicly held companies, \"poison pills\" refer to various methods to deter takeover bids. Takeover bids are attempts by a bidder to obtain control of a target company, either by soliciting proxies to get elected to the board or by acquiring a controlling block of shares and using the associated votes to get elected to the board. Once in control of the board, the bidder can manage the target. As discussed below, targets have various takeover defenses available, and several types of defense have been called \"poison pills\" because they harm not only the bidder, but the target (or its shareholders) as well. Currently, the most common type of takeover defense is a shareholder rights plan.\n\nBecause the board of directors of the company can redeem or otherwise eliminate a standard poison pill, it does not typically preclude a proxy fight or other takeover attempts not accompanied by an acquisition of a significant block of the company's stock. It can, however, prevent shareholders from entering into certain agreements that can assist in a proxy fight, such as an agreement to pay another shareholder's expenses. In combination with a staggered board of directors, however, a shareholder rights plan can be a defense.\n\nThe goal of a shareholder rights plan is to force a bidder to negotiate with the target's board and not directly with the shareholders. The effects are twofold:\n\n\nThe target issues a large number of new shares, often preferred shares, to existing shareholders. These new shares usually have severe redemption provisions, such as allowing them to be converted into a large number of common shares if a takeover occurs. This immediately dilutes the percentage of the target owned by the acquirer, and makes it more expensive to acquire 50% of the target's stock.\n\nA “flip-in” permits shareholders, except for the acquirer, to purchase additional shares at a discount. This provides investors with instantaneous profits. Using this type of poison pill also dilutes shares held by the acquiring company, making the takeover attempt more expensive and more difficult.\n\nA “flip-over” enables stockholders to purchase the acquirer’s shares after the merger at a discounted rate. For example, a shareholder may gain the right to buy the stock of its acquirer, in subsequent mergers, at a two-for-one rate.\n\nUnder this scenario, the target company re-phases all its employees' stock-option grants to ensure they immediately become vested if the company is taken over. Many employees can then exercise their options and then dump the stocks. With the release of the \"golden handcuffs\", many discontented employees may quit immediately after having cashed in their stock options. This poison pill is designed to create an exodus of talented employees, reducing a corporate value as a target. In many high-tech businesses, attrition of talented human resources may result in a diluted or empty shell being left behind for the new owner.\n\nFor instance, PeopleSoft guaranteed its customers in June 2003 that if it were acquired within two years, presumably by its rival Oracle, and product support were reduced within four years, its customers would receive a refund of between two and five times the fees they had paid for their PeopleSoft software licenses. While the acquisition ultimately prevailed, the hypothetical cost to Oracle was valued at as much as US$1.5 billion.\n\nIn a voting plan, a company will charter preferred stock with superior voting rights over that of common shareholders. If an unfriendly bidder acquired a substantial quantity of the target firm's voting common stock, it then still would not be able to exercise control over its purchase. For example, ASARCO established a voting plan in which 99% of the company's common stock would only harness 16.5% of the total voting power.\n\nIn addition to these pills, a \"dead-hand\" provision allows only the directors who introduce the poison pill to remove it (for a set period after they have been replaced), thus potentially delaying a new board’s decision to sell a company.\n\nThe legality of poison pills had been unclear when they were first put to use in the early 1980s. However, the Delaware Supreme Court upheld poison pills as a valid instrument of takeover defense in its 1985 decision in Moran v. Household International, Inc. However, many jurisdictions other than the U.S. have held the poison pill strategy as illegal, or place restraints on their use.\n\nIn Canada, almost all shareholders rights plans are \"chewable,\" meaning they contain a permitted bid concept such that a bidder who is willing to conform to the requirements of a permitted bid can acquire the company by take-over bid without triggering a flip-in event. Shareholder rights plans in Canada are also weakened by the ability of a hostile acquirer to petition the provincial securities regulators to have the company's pill overturned. Generally, the courts will overturn the pill to allow shareholders to decide whether they want to tender to a bid for the company. However, the company may be allowed to maintain it for long enough to run an auction to see if a white knight can be found. A notable Canadian case before the securities regulators in 2006 involved the poison pill of Falconbridge Ltd. which at the time was the subject of a friendly bid from Inco and a hostile bid from Xstrata plc, which was a 20% shareholder of Falconbridge. Xstrata applied to have Falconbridge's pill invalidated, citing among other things that the Falconbridge had had its pill in place without shareholder approval for more than nine months and that the pill stood in the way of Falconbridge shareholders accepting Xstrata's all-cash offer for Falconbridge shares. Despite similar facts with previous cases in which securities regulators had promptly taken down pills, the Ontario Securities Commission ruled that Falconbridge's pill could remain in place for a further limited period as it had the effect of sustaining the auction for Falconbridge by preventing Xstrata increasing its ownership and potentially obtaining a blocking position that would prevent other bidders from obtaining 100% of the shares.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, poison pills are not allowed under the Takeover Panel rules. The rights of public shareholders are protected by the Panel on a case-by-case, principles-based regulatory regime. One disadvantage of the Panel's prohibition of poison pills is that it allows bidding wars to be won by hostile bidders who buy shares of their target in the marketplace during \"raids\". Raids have helped bidders win targets such as BAA plc and AWG plc when other bidders were considering emerging at higher prices. If these companies had poison pills, they could have prevented the raids by threatening to dilute the positions of their hostile suitors if they exceeded the statutory levels (often 10% of the outstanding shares) in the rights plan. The London Stock Exchange itself is another example of a company that has seen significant stakebuilding by a hostile suitor, in this case the NASDAQ. The LSE's ultimate fate is currently up in the air, but NASDAQ's stake is sufficiently large that it is essentially impossible for a third party bidder to make a successful offer to acquire the LSE.\n\nTakeover law is still evolving in continental Europe, as individual countries slowly fall in line with requirements mandated by the European Commission. Stakebuilding is commonplace in many continental takeover battles such as Scania AB. Formal poison pills are quite rare in continental Europe, but national governments hold golden shares in many \"strategic\" companies such as telecom monopolies and energy companies. Governments have also served as \"poison pills\" by threatening potential suitors with negative regulatory developments if they pursue the takeover. Examples of this include Spain's adoption of new rules for the ownership of energy companies after E.ON of Germany made a hostile bid for Endesa and France's threats to punish any potential acquiror of Groupe Danone.\n\nPoison pill is sometimes used more broadly to describe other types of takeover defenses that involve the target taking some action. Although the broad category of takeover defenses (more commonly known as \"shark repellents\") includes the traditional shareholder rights plan poison pill. Other anti-takeover protections include:\n\n\nAn increasing number of companies are giving shareholders a say on poison pills. As of June 15, 2009, 21 companies that had adopted or extended a poison pill had publicly disclosed they plan to put the poison pill to a shareholder vote within a year. That was up from 2008's full year total of 18, and was the largest number ever reported since the early 1980s, when the pill was invented.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3246207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3246207", "title": "Solomon Mujuru", "text": "Solomon Mujuru\n\nSolomon Mujuru (born Solomon Mutusva; 5 May 1945 – 15 August 2011), also known by his nom-de-guerre, Rex Nhongo, was a Zimbabwean military officer and politician who led Robert Mugabe's guerrilla forces during the Rhodesian Bush War. He was from the Zezuru clan. In post-independence Zimbabwe, he went on to become army chief before leaving government service in 1995. After leaving his post in the Zimbabwe National Army, he got into politics becoming Member of Parliament for Chikomba on a Zanu PF ticket. He was generally regarded as one of the most feared men in Zimbabwe. His wife, Joice Mujuru, became Vice-President of Zimbabwe in 2004.\n\nBorn Solomon Mutusva in Enkeldoorn, Southern Rhodesia, Mujuru took an interest in politics at an early age. He was first arrested for his activism while a student at Zimuto High School and later joined the youth league of the Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZANU). He was detained again by the Rhodesian authorities in 1966 and sentenced to two years' imprisonment. Upon his release, Mujuru fled to Lusaka, Zambia, where he was recruited for guerrilla training in the Soviet Union.\n\nDuring the Zimbabwe War of Liberation Mujuru, with Josiah Tongogara, led the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army (ZANLA) while Robert Mugabe was in jail for 10 years (from 1964 to 1974). Mugabe, along with Edgar Tekere, subsequently slipped into Mozambique after their release, with assistance from chief Rekayi Tangwena, where Mujuru petitioned the insurgents to accept Mugabe as their leader.\n\nIn 1976, Mujuru was appointed military chief of the Patriotic Front, a theoretical amalgamation of ZAPU and Mugabe's Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU). From 1976 to 1979, he supervised operational planning, infiltration, and the movement of ZANLA cadres inside Rhodesia. In 1980, the ZANLA commander was instrumental in demobilising former guerrillas in assembly points monitored by Commonwealth forces. \n\nPromoted to general in the new Zimbabwe National Army, Mujuru oversaw ZANLA's integration into the Zimbabwe Defence Forces. He was appointed chief of the army following the resignation of Lieutenant-General Peter Walls, and retired in 1992 to go into business. As a civilian, he became influential in the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association, lobbying for increased veterans' welfare and a prominent stake in the land reform programme.\n\nIt was generally thought that Mujuru had a tremendous amount of influence on who would lead ZANU-PF and the country. He was the only person believed to have had the stature to challenge Mr Mugabe during party meetings. Newspaper reports claimed Mujuru had been under house arrest and 24-hour surveillance between 2007 and 2008 for his role in attempting to oust Mugabe. However, he remained an influential member of the ruling ZANU-PF politburo and central committees. Mujuru and his wife were among the ZANU-PF party members subject to personal sanctions imposed by the United States.\n\nMujuru was a successful businessman and commercial farmer, who both advocated and benefitted from indigenisation and black economic empowerment in Zimbabwe. He had diverse business ventures, which included mining, agriculture, transport, tourism and investment in the construction industry. In the mid-1990s Mujuru clashed with Emmerson Mnangagwa, long considered Mugabe's favoured heir, when Solomon bid to buy into the multibillion-dollar Zimasco, a chrome mining and smelting concern in Zimbabwe's Midlands Province.\n\nPopular speculation is that Mujuru owned anywhere between six and sixteen farms, including Alamein Farm, seized from Guy Watson-Smith during the fast-track land reform in 2001. His seizure of Alamein Farm was at the time ruled illegal by the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe.\n\nMujuru farmed with tobacco, maize and game at Alamein Farm. Farm workers also produced their own tobacco on land allocated to them.\n\nSolomon Mujuru died in a fire in the early hours of the night of 15 August 2011, at the homestead of Alamein Farm, in circumstances that many commentators suggest were suspicious.\n\nHe had stopped at the Beatrice Hotel, 60 km south-west of Harare, where he had drunk and chatted with patrons; he was having an early night before a long journey the next day. A maid and guard at the farm testified they heard gunshots two hours before flames were seen at his farmhouse. Mujuru had left groceries and his cell phone in his car, something he had never done before. The general had taken 40 minutes to drive from the hotel to his farm, a journey of 10 minutes. The lone policeman was asleep at the time, and after he awoke, he had no airtime, and the radio was broken. When the firetruck arrived it had no water.\n\nAn enquiry was opened. The coroner investigating Mujuru's death concluded he had died of smoke inhalation, but Mujuru's family lacks confidence in the coroner's findings. They plan to petition for approval to exhume Mujuru's remains and have them independently examined by a doctor of their own choice. Mujuru's remains are located at Heroes Acre, a memorial in Zimbabwe.\n"}
{"id": "52399962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52399962", "title": "Stercomata", "text": "Stercomata\n\nStercomata are pellets of waste material accumulated in some species of foraminifera and testate amoebae. The pellets consist largely of clay minerals and are believed to be derived from ingested sediment, indicating that the stercomata-bearing foraminifera are filter-feeders, although it is possible that they may capture suspended particles. In certain species the stercomata are enveloped in sheet-like formations of protoplasm.\n\n"}
{"id": "45026457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45026457", "title": "Theodor Fischer (auctioneer)", "text": "Theodor Fischer (auctioneer)\n\nTheodor Fischer (1878–1957) was a Swiss art dealer and auctioneer in Lucerne who after the First World War built a highly successful firm of auctioneers that dominated the Swiss art market. In 1939 he was the auctioneer at the infamous Grand Hotel auction of \"degenerate art\" removed from German museums by the Nazis. During the Second World War he played a key part in the trading of art looted by the Germans from occupied countries.\n\nFischer was born in 1878. In his early career he was associated with the firm of Paul Cassirer of Berlin, with whom a joint auction was held in 1931 after Cassirer's death. He became a director of the Bosshard Gallery in Lucerne.\n\nFischer founded Galerie Fischer in 1907. He later established a branch of the gallery in Berlin. He built up a large business in Lucerne between the wars and sold a number of important collections. He established his own premises there in 1939 at 17 Haldenstrasse. Before then auctions were conducted at the Zur Meisen Guild House in Zurich and the Grand Hotel National, Haldenstrasse, in Lucerne.\n\nIn 1937 the Nazi party assembled, from art that they had removed from German museums, the Degenerate Art Exhibition, an exhibition of mostly modern art that toured Germany until early 1939. The exhibition was intended to show the deterioration in art brought about by Jewish and Bolshevik influences. The creation of the exhibition was followed up by a far larger exercise to collect \"degenerate art\" from throughout Germany. On the instructions of Joseph Goebbels, German Reich Minister of Propaganda, attempts were made to sell some of the more valuable \"degenerate\" works abroad to raise foreign currency to help the war effort. Dealers were appointed in Germany for this purpose and Theodore Fischer was instructed to hold an auction of \"degenerate art\" in Switzerland. This took place on 30 June 1939 at the Grand Hotel National.\n\nAmong the 126 pictures offered were Franz Marc's \"Three Red Horses\", Paul Gauguin's \"Landscape of Tahiti with Three Female Tigers\", Pablo Picasso's \"The Harlequins\" and a self-portrait by Paul Modersohn. In addition, there were four more paintings by Marc, fifteen by Lovis Corinth, nine by Carl Hofer, nine by Oskar Kokoschka, seven by Emil Nolde, five by Ernst Barlach, two by Paul Klee, and three each by Max Beckmann, Erich Heckel, Ernst Kirchner, Max Pechstein and Karl Schmidt-Rottluff. Despite the contempt of the Nazis for the \"degenerate art\" on offer, the auction was described by the Fischer gallery in more flattering terms as a sale of \"Gemalde und Plastiken Moderner Meister aus Deutschen Museen\", (\"Paintings and Sculptures of Modern Masters from German Museums\").\n\nThe sale was widely publicised and previews were held at Zurich and Lucerne but it did not have the atmosphere of a normal fine art auction. Some people were in the audience only out of curiosity and a number of bidders, who might have been expected to attend, were absent because they were worried the proceeds would be used to prop-up the Nazi regime. Others were bargain-hunters or bought because they feared what would happen to the pictures if they went unsold. Marianne Feilchenfeldt and her husband were shocked to discover that one of the canvases for sale was \"Cathedral of Bordeaux\" (1924/25) by Oskar Kokoschka, a painting that they had donated to the Nationalgalerie in Berlin but which had been deaccessioned in 1937.\n\nCurt Valentin, owner of the Buchholz Gallery in New York, purchased five works at the beheist of Alfred H. Barr Jr.. The director of the Museum Of Modern Art \"secretly enlisted Valentin as his agent in the Fischer auction, with funds supplied by his trustees\". The paintings were: \"Andre Derain's \"Valley of the Lot at Vers,\" stolen from the Cologne Museum; E. L. Kirchner's \"Street Scene\" and Wilhelm Lehmbruck's \"Kneeling Woman,\" both taken from the Berlin National Gallery; Paul Klee's \"Around the Fish,\" pilfered from the Dresden Gallery, and Henri Matisse's \"Blue Window,\" seized from the Essen Museum.\"\n\nFischer's auctioneering was reported by \"Beaux Arts\" of France to be efficient but the journal couldn't help noting his disdainful attitude to the lots. Of \"Man with a Pipe\" by Max Pechstein they reported that, \"he said with a little sneer, \"This must be a portrait of the artist\" ... when he withdrew other lots, which he had started at rather a high minimum, he took wicked pleasure in observing loudly, \"Nobody wants that sort of thing,\" or \"This lady doesn't please the public\" ... and he smiled when he said the word \"withdrawn\". The prices realised in the sale were below expectations and 28 lots went unsold.\n\nMany of the established art markets in Europe were closed or restricted during the Second World War, making neutral Switzerland with its borders with Germany, Italy, Austria and France, an attractive alternative to Paris or London as a place to buy or sell art.\n\nPeople were dislocated by the war and some had capital trapped abroad, leading to an urgent need to raise funds. The wife of Jewish collector Julius Freund, for instance, who had been forced to flee Germany, sold part of his collection through Galerie Fischer as she urgently needed to raise funds. The Nazi regime in Germany sold looted art in order to raise foreign currency and collectors and dealers sought to profit from sales forced by wartime exigencies.\n\nFischer, who already dominated the Swiss market, was able to exploit these conditions to the full, to the extent that in 1946, the USS Office of Strategic Services Art Looting Intelligence Unit (ALIU) described him as \"the focal point in all looted art transactions in Switzerland, and recipient of the greatest number of looted paintings located to date\". \nFischer used an agent in Darmstadt named Carl Bümming to negotiate with Adolf Hitler's art agent Karl Haberstock, who like Fischer had worked for Cassirer. In Switzerland, Fischer used the services of Swiss-resident German dealer Hans Wendland to import large quantities of looted art into the country for onward sale. In November 1942, Wendland received a whole railway wagon full of art from Paris. In 1943 he received a large quantity of art from Italy. According to Douglas Cooper, Wendland acted on behalf of Fischer in negotiating with Hermann Göring's art agent Walter Hofer, and Wendland and Fischer were partners in most of the transactions. The two had known each other since at least 1931 when Fischer had bailed Wendland out of some financial difficulties. According to Cooper, the value of trade between Fischer and Hofer for the two years to December 1942 was Swiss Francs 1,133,930. Trade between Hofer and Wendland between 1940 and January 1944 was French Francs 7,420,000 and Swiss Francs 258,000. Fischer also had close connections with the Zurich galleries Galerie Schmidlin and Galerie Neupert, both of which dealt in looted art. The ALIU and Bergier commission Reports also point to the importance of German refugee art dealers such as Fritz Nathan who acted as an intermediary between Fischer, Hofer and Emil Georg Bührle.\n\nFischer made several deals with Hermann Göring through his agent Walter Hofer. Göring particularly prized German old master works and in February 1941, Hofer selected seven such from Galerie Fischer which were shipped to Göring's palace at Karinhall. They included four paintings by the German master Lucas Cranach the Elder, a triptych by a Frankfurt master and a statue of a \"Female Saint Holding a Ring\" (c. 1500) of the Nuremberg school. The Cranach paintings were \"Madonna and Child in a Landscape\", \"Crucifixion with a Knight as Donor\", \"St. Anne and the Virgin\", and \"Portrait of a Bearded Kurfurst\".\n\nGöring originally agreed to pay in Swiss francs but as foreign currency was difficult to obtain, even for him, it was later agreed that Fischer would receive 25 French Impressionist paintings instead. Among these were works by Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot, Charles Cottet, Edgar Degas, Édouard Manet, Alfred Sisley, Pierre-Auguste Renoir and Vincent van Gogh. All had previously been in the Moïse Lévy de Benzion and Alphonse Kann collections, apart from \"Flowers in a Vase\" (also known as \"Glass with Wild Flowers\") (1890) by van Gogh, which had been part of the Alfred Lindon collection.\n\nAnother looted work handled by Fischer was Degas' \"Madame Camus at the Piano\" (1869). This had been in the Kann collection but seized by the Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg (ERR) in 1941. From there it passed into the Göring collection who exchanged it with Gustav Rochlitz for older works. From Rochlitz it went to Wendland and from there to Fischer who sold it in 1942 to industrialist Emil Bührle. It was recovered by Kann's heirs in 1948, only to be sold back to Bührle in 1951.\n\nOther paintings seized by the ERR for the Göring collection that passed into the hands of Theodor Fischer included:\nAmong Fischer's other connections was the Catalan politician, Francoist sympathizer and art collector Francesc Cambó, who dealt almost solely with Fischer. He moved to Buenos Aires shortly after the start of the Second World War. Fischer was also connected with the Austrian dealer Thaddeus Grauer who moved to Brazil in 1941 via Switzerland. In 1998, more than 24 paintings looted from European Jews were discovered in a São Paulo art gallery. They were traced to Grauer and before that Fischer. The paintings included a Picasso and a Monet.\n\nAfter the end of the Second World War, the descendants and original owners of looted art began to try to recover their property in a process that is still continuing.\n\nAround September 1945, Paul Rosenberg, whose collection had been plundered by the Nazis, travelled to Switzerland in search of the paintings looted from him. Finding several in the collection of Emil Bührle, he demanded their return. Bührle refused but said he would return them to Theodor Fischer, from whom he had acquired them, as long as he received a full refund from Fischer. Fischer acknowledged that he had acquired them from Hofer and knew them to be looted but claimed that he had been unable to return them.\n\nThe Swiss government was forced to return some looted works of art to their original owners, despite the Swiss Syndicate of Art Dealers instructing its members not to provide any information on the topic. In the 1950s, Theodor Fischer sued the Swiss government for compensation of over one million Swiss Francs in respect of these restitutions but was awarded only 200,000 francs in settlement.\n\nFischer died in 1957. His business was taken over by his sons, Arthur (1905–1981) and Paul (1911–1976).\n\nNote: This list excludes the Second World War era.\n\n"}
{"id": "35916731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35916731", "title": "Three tramps", "text": "Three tramps\n\nThe three tramps are three men photographed by several Dallas-area newspapers under police escort near the Texas School Book Depository shortly after the assassination of United States President John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963. Since the mid-1960s, various allegations have been made about the identities of the men and their involvement in a conspiracy to kill Kennedy. Records released by the Dallas Police Department in 1989 identified the men as Gus Abrams, Harold Doyle, and John Gedney. \n\nThe \"Dallas Morning News\", the \"Dallas Times Herald\", and the \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\" photographed three transients under police escort near the Texas School Book Depository shortly after the assassination. The men later became known as the \"three tramps\". According to Vincent Bugliosi, allegations that these men were involved in a conspiracy originated from theorist Richard E. Sprague who compiled the photographs in 1966 and 1967, and subsequently turned them over to Jim Garrison during his investigation of Clay Shaw. Appearing before a nationwide audience on the January 31, 1968, episode of \"The Tonight Show\", Garrison held up a photo of the three and suggested they were involved in the assassination. Later, in 1974, assassination researchers Alan J. Weberman and Michael Canfield compared photographs of the men to people they believed to be suspects involved in a conspiracy and said that two of the men were Watergate burglars E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis. Comedian and civil rights activist Dick Gregory helped bring national media attention to the allegations against Hunt and Sturgis in 1975 after obtaining the comparison photographs from Weberman and Canfield. Immediately after obtaining the photographs, Gregory held a press conference that received considerable coverage and his charges were reported in \"Rolling Stone\" and \"Newsweek\". \n\nThe Rockefeller Commission reported in 1975 that they investigated the allegation that Hunt and Sturgis, on behalf of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), participated in the assassination of Kennedy. The final report of that commission stated that witnesses who testified that the \"derelicts\" bore a resemblance to Hunt or Sturgis, \"were not shown to have any qualification in photo identification beyond that possessed by an average layman\". Their report also stated that FBI Agent Lyndal L. Shaneyfelt, \"a nationally-recognized expert in photoidentification and photoanalysis\" with the FBI photographic laboratory, had concluded from photo comparison that none of the men were Hunt or Sturgis. In 1979, the House Select Committee on Assassinations reported that forensic anthropologists had again analyzed and compared the photographs of the \"tramps\" with those of Hunt and Sturgis, as well as with photographs of Thomas Vallee, Daniel Carswell, and Fred Lee Crisman. According to the Committee, only Crisman resembled any of the tramps; but the same Committee determined that he was not in Dealey Plaza on the day of the assassination.\n\nAccording to Mark Lane, Sturgis became involved with Marita Lorenz in 1985, who later identified Sturgis as a gunman in the assassination.\n\nIn September 1982, contract killer Charles Harrelson, the father of actor Woody Harrelson, while wanted for the murder of federal judge John H. Wood Jr. \"confessed\" to killing Wood and President Kennedy during a six-hour standoff with police in which he was reportedly high on cocaine. Joseph Chagra, the brother of Jamiel Chagra, testified during Harrelson's trial that Harrelson claimed to have shot Kennedy and drew maps to show where he was hiding during the assassination. Chagra said that he did not believe Harrelson's claim, and the AP reported that the FBI \"apparently discounted any involvement by Harrelson in the Kennedy assassination\". According to Jim Marrs in 1989's \"Crossfire\", Harrelson is believed to be the youngest and tallest of the \"tramps\" by many assassination researchers. Marrs stated that Harrelson was involved \"with criminals connected to intelligence agencies and the military\" and suggested that he was connected to Jack Ruby through Russell Douglas Matthews, a third party with links to organized crime who was known to both Harrelson and Ruby.\n\nIn September 1991, private investigators John Craig and Philip Rogers, who were working on a book about an unsolved murder case, claimed that Charles Rogers, who disappeared in 1965 after the dismembered bodies of his parents were found in a refrigerator, was a CIA operative who was identified by his friends and relatives as one of the \"tramps\". According to the \"Houston Chronicle\", a homicide detective who worked on the original murder case of Rogers' parents described the scenario as \"far-fetched\". Three months later in a 1991 \"Newsweek\" article about Oliver Stone's \"JFK\", Chauncey Holt received national attention for various claims he made regarding the assassination of President Kennedy, including that he was one of three CIA operatives photographed as the \"tramps\". Holt also stated that he was with Harrelson in Dealey Plaza on the day of the assassination. According to Holt, he was ordered to Dallas to deliver phony Secret Service credentials, but was not involved in killing Kennedy nor did he have knowledge of who did. John Craig and Philip Rogers' 1992 book \"The Man on the Grassy Knoll\" eventually connected Charles Harrelson, Charles Rogers, and Chauncey Holt by alleging that they were the three tramps photographed in Dealey Plaza. According to that book, Harrelson and Rogers were sharpshooters on the grassy knoll, who were assisted by Holt.\n\nIn 1992, journalist Mary La Fontaine discovered the November 22, 1963, arrest records that the Dallas Police Department had released in 1989, which named the three men as Gus W. Abrams, Harold Doyle, and John F. Gedney. According to the arrest reports, the three men were \"taken off a boxcar in the railroad yards right after President Kennedy was shot\", detained as \"investigative prisoners\", described as unemployed and passing through Dallas, then released four days later. An immediate search for the three men by the FBI and others was prompted by an article by Ray and Mary La Fontaine on the front page of the February 9, 1992, \"Houston Post\". Less than a month later, the FBI reported that Abrams was dead and that interviews with Gedney and Doyle revealed no new information about the assassination. According to Doyle, the three men had spent the night before the assassination in a local homeless shelter where they showered and ate before heading back to the railyard. Interviewed by \"A Current Affair\" in 1992, Doyle said that he was aware of the allegations and did not come forward for fear of being implicated in the assassination. He added: \"I am a plain guy, a simple country boy, and that's the way I want to stay. I wouldn't be a celebrity for $10 million.\" Gedney independently affirmed Doyle's account, and a researcher who tracked down Abrams' sister confirmed that Abrams lived the life of an itinerant train hopper and had died in 1987.\n\nDespite the Dallas Police Department's 1989 identifications of the three tramps as being Doyle, Gedney and Abrams and the lack of evidence connecting them to the assassination, some researchers have continued to maintain other identifications for the tramps and to theorize that they may have been connected to the crime. Photographs of the three at the time of their arrest have fueled speculation as to the identities of the three \"tramps\", as they appeared to be well-dressed and clean-shaven, seemingly unlikely for hobos riding the rails. Some researchers also thought it suspicious that the Dallas police had quickly released the tramps from custody, apparently without investigating whether they might have witnessed anything significant related to the assassination, and that Dallas police claimed to have lost the records of their arrests as well as their mugshots and fingerprints.\n\n"}
{"id": "2221670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221670", "title": "Timothy Treadwell", "text": "Timothy Treadwell\n\nTimothy Treadwell (born Timothy William Dexter; April 29, 1957 October 5, 2003) was an American bear enthusiast, environmentalist, documentary filmmaker, founder of the bear-protection organization Grizzly People. He lived among grizzly bears of Katmai National Park in Alaska for 13 summers. At the end of his 13th summer in the park, in 2003, he and his girlfriend Amie Huguenard were killed and almost fully eaten by a 28-year-old brown bear, whose stomach was later found to contain human remains and clothing. Treadwell's life, work, and death were the subject of Werner Herzog's critically acclaimed documentary film \"Grizzly Man\" (2005).\n\nTreadwell was born on Long Island, New York, one of five children of Val and Carol Dexter. He attended Connetquot High School, where he achieved B average grades and was the swimming team's star diver. He was very fond of animals and kept a squirrel named Willie as a pet. In an interview in the film \"Grizzly Man\" (2005), his parents say he was an ordinary young man until he went away to college. There, he claimed that he was a British orphan who was born in Australia. According to this account, his father said Timothy \"spiraled down\" and became an alcoholic after he lost the role of Woody Boyd to Woody Harrelson in the sitcom \"Cheers\".\n\nTreadwell studied grizzly bears during summer seasons for 13 years, before being killed by one of them. According to his book, \"Among Grizzlies: Living with Wild Bears in Alaska\", his mission to protect bears began in the late 1980s after surviving a near fatal heroin overdose. He claims in his book that his drug addiction grew from his alcoholism.\n\nA lover of animals since he was a child, Treadwell traveled to Alaska to watch bears after a close friend convinced him to do so. He wrote that after his first encounter with a wild bear, he knew he had found his calling in life, and that now his destiny was entwined with that of the bears. He attributed his recovery from drug and alcohol addictions entirely to his relationship with bears.\n\nTreadwell spent the early part of each season camping on the \"Big Green\", an open area of bear grass in Hallo Bay on the Katmai Coast. He called the area \"The Grizzly Sanctuary\". Treadwell was known for getting extremely close to the bears he observed, sometimes even touching them and playing with bear cubs. However, in his book, he claimed that he was always careful with the bears and actually developed a sense of mutual trust and respect with the animals. He habitually named the bears he encountered and consistently saw many of the same bears each summer, and thus claimed to build a standing relationship with them. \nIn contrast, Tom Smith, a research ecologist with the Alaska Science Center of the U.S. Geological Service declared that Treadwell \"...was breaking every park rule that there was, in terms of distance to the bears, harassing wildlife and interfering with natural processes. Right off the bat, his personal mission was at odds with the park service. He had been warned repeatedly.\" Referring to Treadwell's death, Smith concluded \"It's a tragic thing, but it's not unpredictable.\"\n\nDuring the later part of each summer he would move to Kaflia Bay and camp in an area of especially thick brush he called the \"Grizzly Maze\". Here the chances of crossing paths with grizzlies were much higher, since the location intersected bear trails. Treadwell recorded almost 100 hours of video footage (some of which was later used to create the documentary \"Grizzly Man\") and produced a large collection of still photographs.\n\nTreadwell claimed to be alone with the wildlife on several occasions in his videos. However, his girlfriend Amie was with him during parts of the last three summers (the documentary says two summers) and at the time of his death. Other people possibly accompanied Treadwell during the other summer trips.\n\nBy 2001, Treadwell became sufficiently notable to receive extensive media attention both on television and in environmental circles, and he made frequent public appearances as an environmental activist. He traveled throughout the United States to educate school children about bears and appeared on the Discovery Channel, the \"Late Show with David Letterman,\" and \"Dateline NBC\" to discuss his experiences.\n\nHe also co-authored \"Among Grizzlies: Living with Wild Bears in Alaska\" with Jewel Palovak (his co-worker with whom he lived for 20 years), which describes Treadwell's adventures on the Alaska Peninsula. Treadwell and Palovak founded Grizzly People, an organization devoted to protecting bears and preserving their wilderness habitat.\n\nCharlie Russell, who studied bears, raised them, and lived with them in Kamchatka, Russia, for a decade, worked with Treadwell. Russell wrote a lengthy critique of Treadwell's lack of basic safety precautions, such as pepper spray and electric fences. He also commented on what he considered the standard reaction of Alaskans to hearing of Treadwell's death, writing, \"If Timothy had spent those thirteen years killing bears and guiding others to do the same, eventually being killed by one, he would have been remembered in Alaska with great admiration.\" Russell was also critical of the film \"Grizzly Man\", saying it was inaccurate, and if Palovak \"really was a protector of bears, she should have looked for a filmmaker who would have been sympathetic towards them.\"\n\nAccording to the organization Treadwell founded, Grizzly People, five bears were poached in the year following his death, while none had been poached while he was present in Katmai. However, according to court records as reported by the \"Anchorage Daily News\", the guilty parties were charged with poaching wildlife along Funnel Creek in the Preserve, an area open to hunting that borders the National Park. According to several sources, including Nick Jans' book, \"The Grizzly Maze\", Treadwell camped only near the Katmai Coast, mainly in areas around Hallo Bay and Kaflia Bay, and never in or near the Preserve. The only effective way to patrol all of Katmai National Park is by airplane, the method used by authorities.\n\nTreadwell's years with the grizzlies were not without disruption. Almost from the start, the National Park Service expressed their worries about his behavior. The Park's restrictions made him increasingly irate. According to the file kept on Treadwell by the Park Service, rangers reported he had at least six violations from 1994 to 2003. Included among these violations were guiding tourists without a license, camping in the same area longer than the Park Service's seven-day limit, improper food storage, wildlife harassment, and conflicts with visitors and their guides. Treadwell also frustrated authorities by refusing to install an electric fence around his camp and refusing to carry bear spray to use as a deterrent. In fact, Treadwell had carried pepper spray with him and had resorted to using it at least one time, but wrote that he had felt terrible grief over the pain he perceived it had caused the bear and refused to use it on subsequent occasions.\n\nIn 1998, park rangers issued Treadwell a citation for storing an ice chest filled with food in his tent. A separate incident involved rangers ordering him to remove a prohibited portable generator. When the Park Service imposed a new rule—often referred to as the \"Treadwell Rule\"—requiring all campers to move their camps at least one mile (1.6 km) every seven days, Treadwell initially obeyed the order by using a small motorboat to move his camp up and down the coast. Finding this method impractical, he later hid his camp from the Park Service in stands of trees with heavy brush. He was cited at least once for this violation.\n\nIn October 2003, Treadwell and his girlfriend, physician assistant Amie Huguenard (born October 23, 1965, in Buffalo, New York), visited Katmai National Park, which is on the Alaska Peninsula across Shelikof Strait from Kodiak Island. In \"Grizzly Man\", Werner Herzog states that according to Treadwell's diaries, Huguenard feared bears and felt deeply uncomfortable in their presence. Her final journal entries indicated that she wanted to be away from Katmai. Treadwell chose to set his campsite near a salmon stream where grizzlies commonly feed in autumn. Treadwell was in the park later in the year than usual, at a time when bears attempt to gain as much fat as possible before winter. Food was scarce that fall, causing the grizzly bears to be even more aggressive than usual.\n\nTreadwell was to leave the park at his usual time of year but extended his stay a week in an effort to locate a favorite female brown bear. He said he hated modern civilization and felt better in nature with the bears than he did in big cities around humans. The bears he had been used to during the summer had already gone into hibernation, and bears that Treadwell did not know from other parts of the park were moving into the area. Some of the last footage taken by Treadwell, hours before his death, includes video of a bear diving into the river repeatedly for a piece of dead salmon. Treadwell mentioned in the footage that he did not feel entirely comfortable around that particular bear. In \"Grizzly Man\", Herzog posits that Treadwell may have filmed the very bear that killed him.\n\nAround noon on Sunday, October 5, 2003, Treadwell spoke with an associate in Malibu, California, by satellite phone; Treadwell mentioned no problems with any bears. The next day, October 6, Willy Fulton, a Kodiak air taxi pilot, arrived at Treadwell and Huguenard's campsite to pick them up but found the area abandoned, except for a bear, and contacted the local park rangers. The couple's mangled remains were discovered quickly upon investigation. Treadwell's disfigured head, partial spine, and right forearm and hand, with his wristwatch still on, were recovered a short distance from the camp. Huguenard's partial remains were found next to the torn and collapsed tents, partially buried in a mound of twigs and dirt. A large male grizzly (tagged Bear 141) protecting the campsite was killed by park rangers during their attempt to retrieve the bodies. A second adolescent bear was also killed a short time later, when it charged the park rangers. An on-site necropsy of Bear 141 revealed human body parts such as fingers and limbs. The younger bear was consumed by other animals before it could be necropsied. In the 85-year history of Katmai National Park, this was the first known incident of a person being killed by a bear.\n\nA video camera was recovered at the site that proved to have been operating during the attack, but police said that the six-minute tape contained only voices and cries as a brown bear mauled Treadwell to death. The tape begins with Treadwell yelling that he is being attacked. \"Come out here; I'm being killed out here,\" he screams. That the tape contained only sound led troopers to believe the attack might have happened while the camera was stuffed in a duffel bag or during the dark of night. In \"Grizzly Man\", filmmaker Herzog claims that the lens cap of the camera was left on, suggesting that Treadwell and Huguenard were in the process of setting up for another video sequence when the attack happened. The camera had been turned on just before the attack, presumably by sound activation, but the camera recorded only six minutes of audio before running out of tape. This, however, was enough time to record the bear's initial attack on Treadwell and his agonized screams, its retreat after Huguenard tells Treadwell to play dead and when she attacked it and its return to carry Treadwell off into the forest.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125282", "title": "Trevor Bailey", "text": "Trevor Bailey\n\nTrevor Edward Bailey (3 December 1923 – 10 February 2011) was an England Test cricketer, cricket writer and broadcaster.\n\nAn all-rounder, Bailey was known for his skilful but unspectacular batting. As the BBC reflected in his obituary: \"His stubborn refusal to be out normally brought more pleasure to the team than to the spectators.\" This defensive style of play brought him the first of his nicknames, \"Barnacle Bailey\", but he was a good enough cricketer that he has retrospectively been calculated to have been the leading all-rounder in the world for most of his international career.\n\nIn later life, Bailey wrote a number of books and commentated on the game. He was particularly known for the 26 years he spent working for the BBC on the Test Match Special radio programme.\n\nBailey was born in Westcliff-on-Sea, Essex. His father was a civil servant in the Admiralty. Bailey grew up in modest affluence: \"The family lived in [a] semi-detached house at Leigh-on-Sea, complete with a live-in maid on 12 shillings (60p) a week; they did not, however, own a car.\" He first learned to play cricket on the beach.\n\nHe won sporting scholarships to attend Alleyn Court Prep School, where he learned cricket from former Essex captain Denys Wilcox, and then Dulwich College. In his first year, aged just 14, he was selected for Dulwich's First XI cricket team. He came top of the school's batting and bowling averages in 1939 and 1940, became captain in 1941, and was top of the averages again in his last year at Dulwich, 1942.\n\nHe was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Royal Marines after leaving school; he was \"not enamoured of war, and won some reputation as defending counsel in court martials\". Though World War II was still in progress, he received an early discharge in January 1945 to return to Alleyn Court Prep School as a schoolmaster. He subsequently attended St John's College, Cambridge for two years, reading English and History and graduating in 1948. He won Blues for both cricket and football both years, 1947 and 1948. The Cambridge football team included Doug Insole, whom Bailey would later succeed as captain of Essex County Cricket Club.\n\nBailey made his first-class cricket debut in September 1945, aged 22, for the \"Under 33s\" scratch team, in a match at Lord's, against an \"Over 33s\" team, and made his debut playing county cricket for Essex in May 1946. He quickly became a lynchpin of the Essex team, and made his Test debut for England against New Zealand at Headingley in June 1949, taking 6 wickets for 118 runs in his first match.\n\nA right-arm fast-medium bowler, dependable right-handed batsman and strong fielder, often in the slips or at leg gully, Bailey played 61 Tests for England between 1949 and 1959. His swing bowling provided an effective foil for the fast bowling of Alec Bedser, and later Fred Trueman, Brian Statham and Frank Tyson. He is described as having had \"a model high, sideways-on action which encouraged outswing. At his best he could touch greatness...\" He took 132 wickets at the bowling average of 29, scored a century (134 not out) in attaining a useful batting average of nearly 30, and took 32 catches.\n\nHe is best remembered for his obdurate defensive batting, especially in matches against Australia. England were facing defeat by the Australians at Lord's in the Second Test in 1953. Bailey shared a defensive fifth wicket stand with Willie Watson, defying the bowlers for over four hours to earn a draw, taking 257 minutes to score 71 runs. In the fourth Test of that series, at Headingley, Bailey again played an important part in ensuring that England avoided going 1–0 down, which would have ended their hopes of regaining the Ashes. When the last day began England were 177–5 in their second innings, only 78 runs ahead. Bailey scored 38 in 262 minutes, and Australia eventually had to score 177 in only 115 minutes. They reached a point where they needed only another 66 in 45 minutes with seven wickets left. But Bailey went back to his long run and slowed the over rate, as well as bowling negatively wide of the leg stump, and Australia fell 30 runs short and the game was drawn. England went on to win the fifth and final Test and so regained the Ashes.\n\nHis best Test bowling figures of 7/34, bowling outswing on a flat pitch, enabled England to bowl out the West Indies for 139 in the first innings of the fifth Test at Kingston, Jamaica, in 1953–54, on a pitch on which the groundsman expected the home side to score 700. This enabled England to win the match and to share the series 2–2. He was vice-captain on that tour, and may be considered unlucky never to have been appointed captain of England. According to Alan Gibson: \"It is astonishing that so good a cricketer, so thoughtful a judge, and so friendly a man, should have been passed over.\" However, he adds: \"He is, or was in his earlier days, a man of contradictions, who sometimes enjoyed being irritating, to his captain, to his colleagues, to the public, but most of all to his opponents.\"\n\nHe played his final Tests in the Ashes tour to Australia in 1958–59. He had a bad tour, during which he scored the slowest half-century in first-class cricket, reaching 50 just 3 minutes short of 6 hours at the crease, in England's second innings during the 1st Test at Brisbane. This was the first Test match to be broadcast on television in Australia. He bagged a pair in his final test, the last of the tour at Melbourne, He was never selected for England's Test side again, but continued to play first-class cricket for Essex for another 8 years, and in the 1959 season became the only player since the Second World War to score more than 2,000 runs and take 100 wickets in a single domestic season.\n\nHis first-class cricket career began just after World War II in 1946 and lasted 21 years as he played 682 matches, taking 2,082 wickets at a bowling average of 23.13, which puts him 25th on the all-time list of wicket-takers. Bailey achieved the rare feat of taking all 10 wickets in an innings, for 90 runs, against Lancashire at Clacton in 1949. His 28,641 runs in first-class cricket put him 67th on the all-time list of run-scorers. He captained the county from 1961 to 1966. He was also the county's secretary (i.e. the chief administrative officer) from 1964 to 1969, having previously had a spell as assistant secretary. He arranged for Warwickshire to make an interest-free loan to Essex in 1965 which allowed Essex to buy its Chelmsford ground. This enabled him to receive a salary whilst at the same time technically remaining an amateur cricketer, although he was better paid than the club's professionals. However, Keith Fletcher, a playing colleague at Essex, did not begrudge him his salary, saying: \"...he was a better cricketer than the pros and someone instrumental in taking Essex County Cricket Club into the modern era. He was cricket and Essex, through and through.\". He supplemented his income by undertaking advertising work while playing for Essex, modelling for Brylcreem, Shredded Wheat and Lucozade.\n\nHe played football for Cambridge University (appearing in the University Match against Oxford), Southend United reserves, Clapton, Leytonstone and Walthamstow Avenue. At various times he played at centre-half, inside-right and on the wing. He was a member of the Walthamstow Avenue side which won the FA Amateur Cup in 1951-2, winning the final before a Wembley crowd of 100,000. The following season, he played in the side which reached the fourth round of the FA Cup. Drawn against Manchester United at Old Trafford, they drew 1–1, a fine achievement for an amateur side. The replay took place at Highbury, and Manchester United won 5–2. He later became a director of Southend United F.C..\n\nAfter retiring from cricket in 1967, Bailey continued to play for Westcliff-on-Sea Cricket Club for many years and also became a cricket journalist and broadcaster. He was the cricket and football correspondent of the \"Financial Times\" for 23 years. He was a regular on the BBC's Test Match Special from 1974 to 1999, where fellow commentator Brian Johnston nicknamed him The Boil, based on the supposed Australian barrackers' pronunciation of his name as \"Boiley\". (The \"Daily Telegraph\" gives an alternative source for this nickname from the pronunciation of his surname by the East End supporters of the Walthamstow Avenue football team.) During his retirement he would watch Westcliff-on-Sea Cricket Club play at their Chalkwell Park Ground where he had played many times for school, club and county.\n\nHe was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 1994 Birthday Honours for services to cricket.\n\nHe remains the only player since the Second World War to score more than 2,000 runs in a season and take 100 wickets, a feat he achieved in 1959, and he achieved the all-rounders' double of 1,000 runs and 100 wickets in a season eight times, a post-World War II record he shares with Fred Titmus. He was selected as one of the five Wisden Cricketers of the Year in 1950. He is also one of three players (the others are Fred Titmus and Ray Illingworth) to have scored 20,000 first-class runs and taken 2,000 wickets since the Second World War. According to the retrospectively calculated ICC cricket ratings, for most of his career, Bailey was the best all-rounder in the world. In the individual disciplines, his bowling saw him achieve the higher ranking, as high as eighth in the summer of 1957.\n\nDoug Insole, his one-time captain at Essex, described him thus: \"Trevor was quite a stroppy lad in his early cricketing years, and a bit of a rebel. He was a very intense character – we used to tease him about that in the dressing room, and he did mellow over the years.\"\n\nSimon Briggs wrote: \"There was little comfy or cosy about his cricket career. Rather, he fitted into a long tradition of hard-nosed English pragmatists – a lineage that runs from WG Grace, through Jardine and up to Nasser Hussain... To Bailey and company, the best way to honour the gods of cricket was to commit your heart and soul to the fight. For them, a Test match was a contest between two groups of warriors. Its entertainment value was almost irrelevant.\"\n\nHe was renowned for his slow scoring in Tests against Australia, Neville Cardus writing of one innings in his book \"Full Score\" (1970, chapter \"Cricket of Vintage\"): \"Before he gathered together 20 runs, a newly-married couple could have left Heathrow and arrived in Lisbon, there to enjoy a honeymoon. By the time Bailey had congealed 50, this happily wedded pair could easily have settled down in a semi-detached house in Surbiton; and by the time his innings had gone to its close they conceivably might have been divorced.\" He was nicknamed \"Barnacle\" for his implacable defensive batting.\n\nIn Cardus's piece on him in \"Close of Play\", first published in 1956, he was more complimentary: \"Some cricketers are born to greatness. Bailey achieved it... He conquers by tremendous effort... Yet Bailey... loves to attack any bowler... He has made catches bordering on the marvellous... It is no small thing to be a Trevor Bailey in a world of anonymous mediocrity.\"\n\nBailey died in a fire in his retirement flat in Westcliff-on-Sea on 10 February 2011. His wife, Greta, survived. They had two sons and one daughter.\n\nThe chairman of the England and Wales Cricket Board, Giles Clarke, described him as \"one of the finest all-rounders this country has ever produced\", while Jonathan Agnew, who worked with Bailey on Test Match Special, wrote of him: \"dogged batsman, aggressive bowler. Intelligent cricketer. Wonderfully concise pundit. Great sense of humour.\"\n\nHe wrote the following books:\n\n\nAlan Hill has written a biography:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2749587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2749587", "title": "Unnatural death", "text": "Unnatural death\n\nUnnatural death is a category used by coroners or medical examiners and vital statistics specialists for classifying all human deaths not properly describable as death by natural causes. It includes events such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "7272712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7272712", "title": "Walter Smiles", "text": "Walter Smiles\n\nLieutenant-Colonel Sir Walter Dorling Smiles CIE DSO DL (8 November 1883 – 31 January 1953) was a Northern Irish politician.\n\nSir Walter was the son of William Holmes Smiles, director of Belfast Ropeworks, and grandson of Samuel Smiles. Sir Walter served during the First World War and, in the 1920s, managed a tea estate in Assam, there he became involved in local government and was a member of the Assam Legislative Council.\n\nDuring the First World War; he obtained a pilots certificate but due to the lack of aircraft he transferred to Royal Naval Armoured Car Division. In 1915 he was seconded to the Imperial Russian Army to fight against Turkish forces in the Caucasus Campaign. In 1918 he had reached the rank of Lieutenant commander and was highly decorated; he received the DSO in 1916, with bar in 1917 and a MID, along with Russian and Romanian decorations; such as the St George of the 4th class.\nHe was Conservative Member of Parliament (MP) for Blackburn from 1931 to 1945. Smiles was re-elected in 1935 but stood for Down in Northern Ireland at the 1945 Westminster election, as a Unionist. The two-seat constituency was split in 1950 into North Down and South Down. Smiles won North Down that year and remained its MP until his death in 1953; he lost his life in the sinking of the off Larne Lough, in the Great Storm. He was succeeded by his daughter, Patricia Ford. He was the great-grandfather of explorer Bear Grylls.\n"}
{"id": "3663327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3663327", "title": "Watershed stroke", "text": "Watershed stroke\n\nA watershed stroke or watershed infarct is defined as a brain ischemia that is localized to the vulnerable border zones between the tissues supplied by the anterior, posterior and middle cerebral arteries. The actual blood stream blockage/restriction site can be located far away from the infarcts. Watershed locations are those border-zone regions in the brain supplied by the major cerebral arteries where blood supply is decreased. Watershed strokes are a concern because they comprise approximately 10% of all ischemic stroke cases. The watershed zones themselves are particularly susceptible to infarction from global ischemia as the distal nature of the vasculature predisposes these areas to be most sensitive to profound hypoperfusion.\n\nWatershed strokes are localized to two primary regions of the brain, and are termed cortical watersheds (CWS) and internal watersheds (IWS). Patients with many different cardiovascular diseases have a higher likelihood of experiencing a blood clot or loss of blood flow in border-zone regions of the brain. The resulting symptoms differ based on the affected area of the brain. A CT scan and MRI are used for diagnosis, and afterward several treatment options are available, including the removal of atherosclerotic plaque and a physical widening of the clogged blood vessel. Long-term care is focused around three areas: rehabilitative therapy, surgical interventions, and prevention of future watershed strokes. Going forward, research to combat watershed strokes is focusing on various topics, such as stem cell research.\n\nWatershed strokes are named because they affect the distal watershed areas of the brain. The original terminology came from the German literature, which used the analogy of an irrigation system. The German scholars compared the blood flow in distal arterial territories of the brain to the last field on a farm, which was the area with the least supply of water and therefore most vulnerable to any reduction in flow. In a medical context, the term \"watershed\" refers to those areas of the brain that receive dual blood supply from the branching ends of two large arteries.\n\nThese events are localized to two primary regions of the brain:\n\n\nNonetheless, within the literature itself, there exists confusion over the terminology used to describe cortical (outer brain) infarcts and subcortical (inner brain) infarcts. Besides watershed, border-zone is another common term used to refer to areas of the brain between the ends of two adjacent arteries. Other less used terms include: borderland, end zone, boundary zone, and terminal zone. These varying terms have arisen from the considerable anatomic variability both in the cerebral vascular structure and the territories of the brain that they supply.\n\nWatershed strokes are caused by ischemia or a lack of blood flow to the brain. There are several causes of ischemia, including embolism and atherosclerosis. There are several conditions that can predispose someone to watershed stroke by increasing the likelihood that insufficient blood supply will be able to reach the brain. People with many different cardiovascular diseases have a higher likelihood of experiencing a clot or a plaque that impedes flow through a blood vessel. Cardiovascular diseases that increase the risk of ischemia include:\n\nWatershed stroke symptoms are due to the reduced blood flow to all parts of the body, specifically the brain, thus leading to brain damage. Initial symptoms, as promoted by the American Stroke Association, are FAST (stroke), representing F = Facial weakness (droop), A = Arm weakness (drift), S = Speech difficulty (slur), and T = Time to act (priority of intervention).\n\nAll strokes are considered a medical emergency. Any one of these symptoms, whether seen alone or in combination, should be assumed to be stroke until proven otherwise. Emergency medical help should be sought IMMEDIATELY if any or all of these symptoms are seen or experienced. Early diagnosis and timely medical intervention can drastically reduce the severity of a stroke, limit damage to the brain, improve the chances of a full recovery and reduce recovery times massively.\n\nAfter the initial stroke, other symptoms depend on the area of the brain affected. If one of the three central nervous system pathways is affected, symptoms can include numbness, reduced sensation, and hyperreflexia.\n\nMost often, the side of the brain damaged results in body defects on the opposite side. Since the cranial nerves originate from the brainstem, damage to this area can lead to defects in the function of these nerves. Symptoms can include altered breathing, problems with balance, drooping of eyelids, and decreased sensation in the face.\n\nDamage to the cerebral cortex may lead to aphasia or confusion and damage to the cerebellum may lead to lack of motor movement.\n\nStroke presentations which are particularly suggestive of a watershed stroke include bilateral visual loss, stupor, and weakness of the proximal limbs, sparing the face, hands and feet.\n\nDiagnosis of a cerebral vascular accident begins with a general neurological examination, used to identify specific areas of resulting injury. A CT scan of the brain is then used to identify any cerebral hemorrhaging. An MRI with special sequences called diffusion-weighted MR imaging (DWI), is very sensitive for locating areas of an ischemic based stroke, such as a watershed stroke.\n\nFurther diagnosis and evaluation of a stroke includes evaluation of the blood vessels in the neck using either Doppler ultrasound, MR-angiography or CT-angiography, or formal angiography. An echocardiogram may be performed looking for a cardiac source of emboli. Blood tests for risk factors also may be ordered, including cholesterol levels, triglyceride levels, homocysteine levels, and blood coagulation tests.\n\n\nAlthough many imaging techniques are used to document watershed strokes, their pathogenesis remains controversial. It may involve various mechanisms such as systemic hypotension, microemboli, severe arterial stenosis, ICA occlusion or a combination of these.\n\nA sharp drop in blood pressure is the most frequent cause of watershed infarcts. The most frequent location for a watershed stroke is the region between the anterior cerebral artery and middle cerebral artery. These events caused by hypotension do not usually cause the blood vessel to rupture.\n\nMicroemboli have not been experimentally proven to cause watershed strokes. It is unclear whether they are a cause or an effect of a watershed stroke. With watershed strokes, platelet aggregates block the small meningeal arteries in watershed regions creating a microembolism. Microemboli usually form as thrombi, and can block arteries outright. On the other hand, they often detach, move into blood circulation, and eventually block smaller downstream branches of arteries causing a thromboembolism. Generally, emboli travel as far outward as their size permits along the vascular branches of the brain. Using this hypothesis, microemboli are viewed as the cause of the infarct rather than secondary events. Nevertheless, secondary thrombi do form after infarcts, and therefore it has been difficult to distinguish between emboli and thrombi in watershed locations. The best supporting evidence is correlative; patients display subcortical abnormalities on CT scans and present more microembolic signals during a carotid endarterectomy.\n\nMicroemboli can be common in some high-risk patients, such as those with carotid stenosis. However, in healthier patients strokes do not usually result from microemboli.\n\nThrombi at the split of the internal carotid artery in the neck may cause watershed infarcts between the territories of the anterior cerebral artery and the middle cerebral artery. The resulting watershed infarcts in carotid artery blockages have mostly been considered to be due to a reduced blood flow, similar to that of hypotension. Imaging studies in severe internal carotid artery (ICA) disease report an incidence of watershed stroke ranging from 19% to 64%. Almost 40% of these watershed infarcts are attributed to narrowing of the carotid artery, which produces the reduced blood flow.\n\nHowever, a different possible explanation has emerged. Alternatively, the vascular occlusion could be the result of microemboli from the carotid thrombi before the lumen becomes completely blocked. In this scenario, the clotting becomes too severe and the clot breaks free. The resulting traveling clot is known as an embolus (plural emboli). The wall of internal carotid artery just distal to the bifurcation (split) is a common site of atherosclerosis because of the unique hemodynamic effects caused by the blood flow divider. As a result, thrombi formation is more prevalent there. In general, researches have observed that this microembolization is a frequent phenomenon during the build-up of cerebral thrombi. The resulting emboli are pieces of calcified plaque. If these microemboli are 0.1 mm in diameter, they might pass into the small branches of the vascular system. There they may be destroyed by protective cellular defenses, or they may cause a stroke. Altogether, these considerations suggest that the watershed infarcts in carotid thrombosis are caused by microembolization from mural thrombi, thrombi adherent to the vessel wall, rather than by blood flow disturbances.\n\nOften considered one of the safest ways to treat symptomatic carotid stenosis, carotid endarterectomy is a procedure by which a surgeon gently removes atherosclerotic plaque. Blood flow hopefully then returns to normal, increasing oxygen concentration to normal amounts in watershed areas of the brain.\n\nThere is the potential for complications, including disturbing portions of the plaque leading to a stroke or heart attack during or after surgery. Small risks of bleeding and infection exist as well.\n\nIn this type of procedure, a narrowed blood vessel is expanded via angioplasty or stenting. A thin angiography catheter is inserted in a large groin blood vessel and advanced to the stenosis. Percutaneous treatment is less invasive than endarterectomy, usually requiring only local anesthesia. Endarterectomy is still considered safer though, as percutaneous treatments can lead to accidental dislodging of plaque or even arterial rupturing.\n\nDuring carotid angioplasty, an angiography cather with a small deflated balloon attached on the tip is advanced to a carotid stenosis. The ballon is then inflated slowly, forcing the narrowed portion of the vessel to expand.\n\nCarotid stenting follows a similar procedure. Rather than using a balloon, a stent (metal mesh-like tube) is placed over the atherosclerotic plaque in the hopes of stabilizing it and allowing for increased blood flow to watershed portions of the brain.\n\nWatershed strokes are seldom fatal, but they can lead to neuromuscular degeneration, as well as dementia. This degeneration at the watershed regions of the brain can lead to difficulties with movement and motor coordination, as well as speech. Long-term care is focused around three areas: rehabilitative therapy, surgical interventions, and prevention of future watershed strokes.\n\nLong-term rehabilitative therapy for watershed stroke patients involves physical, occupational, and speech and language therapies. Physical therapy can be used to enhance motor function in the legs and arms that has been impacted by stroke. Occupational therapies can be provided to help to alleviate cognitive impairments that result from watershed stroke, as well as to improve fine motor function that was damaged as a result of the stroke. Stroke can also cause impairments in speech production secondary to neurocognitive and neuromuscular impairments, and therefore speech and language therapies are often a component of long-term care for stroke patients. Intensive speech and language therapy has been shown to improve speech deficits associated with aphasia resulting from stroke.\n\nEndovascular interventions, including surgical revascularization, can increase blood flow in the area of the stroke, thereby decreasing the likelihood that insufficient blood flow to the watershed regions of the brain will result in subsequent strokes. Neuroscientists are currently researching stem cell transplantation therapies to improve recovery of cebreral tissue in affected areas of the brain post-stroke. Should this intervention be proven effective, it will greatly increase the number of neurons in the brain that can recover from a stroke.\n\nThere are several interventions that are often used to help prevent the recurrence of a watershed stroke; namely, nutritional interventions, as well as antiplatelet, anticoagulant, and statin drug use. Nutritional interventions, including increased consumption of certain amino acids, antioxidants, B-group vitamins, and zinc, have been shown to increase the recovery of neurocognitive function after a stroke. Antiplatelet drugs, such as aspirin, as well as anticoagulants, are used to help prevent blood clots and therefore embolisms, which can cause watershed strokes. Statin drugs are also used to control hyperlipidemia, another risk factor for watershed stroke.\n\nIschemic stroke is still a major health concern and studies are being conducted to determine the pathway in which brain damage occurs to identify targets for intervention. Stem cell transplantation may help in intervention to improve cell recovery and regeneration.\n\nAlthough the mechanism is not entirely understood, the likelihood of a watershed stroke increases after cardiac surgery. An experiment conducted in a five-year span studied the diagnosis, etiology, and outcome of these postoperative strokes. It was observed that intraoperative decrease in blood pressure may lead to these strokes and patients who have undergone aortic procedures are more likely to have bilateral watershed infarcts. Furthermore, bilateral watershed strokes are associated with poor short-term outcomes and are most reliably observed by diffusion-weighted imaging MRI. Thus future clinical research and practice should focus on the identification of bilateral stroke characteristics. This identification can help discover affected areas and increase correct diagnosis.\n\nHemodynamic impairment is thought to be the cause of deep watershed infarcts, characterized by a rosary-like pattern. However new studies have shown that microembolism might also contribute to the development of deep watershed infarcts. The dual contribution of hemodynamic impairment and microembolism would result in different treatment for patients with these specific infarcts.\n\nWhile intracranial artery stenting is used for same side stoke prevention, basilar artery stenting may help to improve parallel, accessory blood flow. The stent may also lead to termination of recurrent middle cerebral artery (MCA) strokes.\n\nThe area around the damaged ischemia is known as the penumbra. This viable area has the ability to regenerate with the help of pharmacological treatment however most patients with penumbra are left untreated. New research is being conducted in metabolic suppression, direct energy delivery, and selective drug delivery to help salvage this area of the brain after a stroke.\n\nThis new drug has been shown to home to ischemic stroke tissue as well as apoptotic neuronal cells of the penumbra region. This discovery may help in creating selective drug delivery for stroke patients.\n\nNanoliposomes are currently being researched for specific drug delivery due to their ph-sensitive and high blood–brain barrier diffusion characteristics. Many advantages of these drugs include:\nDue to the fact that acidic environment and low blood flow are prominent characteristic of the penumbra area, liposomal drugs seem to be well suited.\n"}
{"id": "1156420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1156420", "title": "William McMaster Murdoch", "text": "William McMaster Murdoch\n\nWilliam McMaster Murdoch (28 February 1873 – 15 April 1912) was a Scottish sailor who served as First Officer aboard the . He was notable as the officer in charge when the Titanic collided with an iceberg. Mystery also surrounds his death.\n\nBorn from a family of sailors, William Murdoch was an officer of the Royal Naval Reserve; he was employed by the White Star Line in 1900 and quickly rose to the rank of officer. In 1903, his leadership became recognized when he avoided a collision with the \"Arabic\". In April 1912, Murdoch served as First Officer aboard the . He is notable as the officer in charge on the bridge the night the \"Titanic\" struck an iceberg in the Atlantic Ocean. He was one of 1,500 people who died in the disaster.\n\nMurdoch became an iconic British hero, a status that is maintained and reflected by the memorial in his hometown of Dalbeattie. However, debate revolves around the adequacy of instructions given to avoid the iceberg.\n\nIn the aftermath of the sinking, a number of eyewitness testimonies arose of a shooting/suicide by an officer during the launching of the last lifeboat. Though these facts are unconfirmed, it is possible that Murdoch was that officer.\n\nMurdoch has become a figure of controversy, with mystery surrounding the circumstances of his death and his actions during the collision with the iceberg.\n\nMurdoch was born in Dalbeattie in Kirkcudbrightshire (now Dumfries and Galloway), Scotland, the fourth son of Captain Samuel Murdoch, a master mariner, and Jane Muirhead, six of whose children survived infancy. They were a long and notable line of Scottish seafarers who sailed the world's oceans as early as the 19th century. His father and grandfather were both sea captains as were four of his grandfather's brothers.\n\nMurdoch was educated first at the old Primary School in High Street, and then at the Dalbeattie High School in Alpine Street until he gained his diploma in 1887. Finishing schooling, he followed in the family seafaring tradition and was apprenticed for five years to \"William Joyce & Coy\", Liverpool, but after four years (and four voyages) he was so competent that he passed his second mate's Certificate on his first attempt.\n\nHe served his apprenticeship aboard the \"Charles Cosworth\" of Liverpool, trading to the west coast of South America. From May 1895, he was First Mate on the \"St. Cuthbert\", which sank in a hurricane off Uruguay in 1897. Murdoch gained his Extra Master's Certificate at Liverpool in 1896, at age 23. From 1897 to 1899, he was First Officer aboard the \"J. Joyce & Co.\" steel four-masted 2,534-ton barque Lydgate, that traded from New York to Shanghai.\nFrom 1900 to 1912, Murdoch gradually progressed from Second Officer to First Officer, serving on a successive number of White Star Line vessels, \"Medic\" (1900, along with Charles Lightoller, \"Titanic\"s second officer), \"Runic\" (1901–1903), \"Arabic\" (1903), \"Celtic\" (1904), \"Germanic\" (1904), \"Oceanic\" (1905), \"Cedric\" (1906), \"Adriatic\" (1907–1911) and \"Olympic\" (1911–1912).\n\nIn 1903, Murdoch met a 29-year-old New Zealand school teacher named Ada Florence Banks en route to England on either the \"Runic\" or the \"Medic\". They began to correspond regularly and on 2 September 1907 they were wed in Southampton at St Deny's Church.\n\nDuring 1903, Murdoch finally reached the stormy and glamorous \"North Atlantic\" run as Second Officer of the new liner \"Arabic\". His cool head, quick thinking and professional judgement averted a disaster when a ship was spotted bearing down on the \"Arabic\" out of the darkness. He overrode a command from his superior, Officer Fox, to steer hard-a-port, rushing into the wheelhouse, brushing aside the quartermaster and holding the ship on course. The two ships passed within inches of one another. Any alteration in course would have actually caused a collision.\n\nThe final stage of Murdoch's career began in May 1911, when he joined the new , at . Intended to outclass the \"Cunard\" ships in luxury and size, it needed the most experienced large-liner crew that the \"White Star Line\" could find. Captain Edward J. Smith assembled a crew that included Henry Wilde as Chief Officer, Murdoch as First Officer, and Chief Purser Herbert McElroy. On 14 June 1911 Olympic departed on her maiden voyage to New York, arriving there on the 21st.\n\nThe first indications of what was to come occurred on 20 September when the \"Olympic\" had her hull badly damaged in a collision with the Royal Navy cruiser \"HMS Hawke\". Since Murdoch was at his docking-station at the stern during this collision – a highly responsible position – he found himself giving evidence in the inquiry into an incident that turned into a financial disaster for the White Star Line, as the voyage to New York had to be abandoned and the ship taken to Belfast for repairs, which took a good six weeks. It was thus not until 11 December 1911 that Murdoch rejoined the ship. During the time that he served aboard as First Officer (until some time in March, 1912) there were two further – though lesser – incidents, striking a sunken wreck and having to have a broken propeller replaced, and nearly running aground while leaving Belfast. However, upon reaching Southampton, he learned that he had been appointed as Chief Officer of the new \"Titanic\", the \"Olympic\"'s sister ship and reputedly the largest and most luxurious one afloat. Lightoller later remarked that \"three very contented chaps\" headed north to Belfast, for he had been appointed First Officer, and their friend Davy Blair was to be the new second officer. Awaiting them would be an old \" Adriatic\" hand, Joseph Groves Boxhall, as Fourth Officer, and others who would be familiar colleagues, including the now aging Edward J. Smith as Captain and on the verge of retirement.\n\nMurdoch, with an \"ordinary master's certificate\" and a reputation as a \"canny and dependable man\", had climbed through the ranks of the White Star Line to become one of its foremost senior officers. He was selected to be the \"Titanic\"s Chief Officer, with 16 years of maritime experience now behind him.\n\nMurdoch had originally been assigned as the ship's Chief Officer, though when the \"Titanic\"s skipper, Edward J. Smith, brought Henry Wilde, his Chief from his previous command, Murdoch was temporarily reduced to First while First Officer Charles Lightoller was in turn reduced to Second. The original Second, David Blair, would sit out the voyage altogether while the rest of the ship's complement of officers remained unchanged.\nMurdoch was the officer in charge on the bridge when at approximately 11:40 pm on 14 April 1912 a large iceberg directly in the \"Titanic\"'s path was sighted. Quartermaster Robert Hichens, who was at the helm, and Fourth Officer Joseph Boxhall, who may or may not have been on the bridge during the collision, both stated that Murdoch gave the order \"Hard-a-starboard\", a tiller command which would turn the ship to port (left) by moving the tiller to starboard (right).\n\nAt the time steering instructions on British ships generally followed the way tillers on sailing vessels are operated, with turns in the opposite direction from the commands. As Walter Lord noted in \"The Night Lives On\", this did not fully change to the \"steering wheel\" system of commands in the same directions as turns until 1924. It has been alleged that Murdoch's orders were misinterpreted by the helmsman, resulting in a turn the wrong way.\n\nBoxhall also reported that Murdoch set the ship's telegraph to \"Full Astern\", though his testimony was contradicted by Greaser Frederick Scott and Leading Stoker Frederick Barrett who stated that the stoking indicators went from \"Full\" to \"Stop\". During or right before the collision he may have also given an order (as heard by Quartermaster Alfred Oliver when he walked onto the bridge in the middle of the collision) of \"Hard a'port\" (moving the tiller all the way to the port (left) side turning the ship to starboard (right)) in what may have been an attempt to swing the remainder (aft section) away from the berg in a common manoeuvre called a \"port around\" (this could explain his comment to the captain \"I intended to port around it\"). The fact that such a manoeuvre was executed was supported by other crew members who testified that the stern of the ship never hit the iceberg. The orders that Murdoch gave to avoid the iceberg are debated. According to nearby Quartermaster Alfred Oliver, he immediately ordered the helm \"hard to port\" to ward off the stern of the iceberg. Hichens and the Fourth Officer Joseph Boxhall made no mention of the order. However, since the stern avoided the iceberg, it is likely that the order was given and carried out.\n\nDespite these efforts the ship made its fatal collision in an estimated 37 seconds after the iceberg had been sighted. The starboard side scraped the iceberg, buckling the hull in several places and causing rivets to pop out below the waterline, opening the first five compartments (the forward peak tank, the three forward holds and Boiler Room 6) to the sea.\n\nAfter the collision, Murdoch was put in charge of the starboard evacuation during which he launched ten lifeboats, containing almost 75% of the total number who survived. He was last seen attempting to launch Collapsible Lifeboat A. Murdoch perished in the sinking and his body was never recovered.\n\nIn the days and weeks immediately following the sinking of the Titanic, it was widely rumored that Murdoch had committed suicide in the ship's final moments, by shooting himself with a revolver shortly before the vessel foundered. Several passengers, including Third Class Passenger Eugene Daly and First class passenger George Rheims, claimed to have seen an officer committing suicide in the ship's final moments. Murdoch was right where many of the suicide accounts place the shooting – at the forward lifeboat station on the starboard side.\nSecond Officer Charles Lightoller denied the rumors, saying that he saw Murdoch working to free Collapsible A, when Murdoch was swept into the sea by the wave washing over the boat deck, and that \"other reports as to the ending are absolutely false\". However, Lightoller's testimony at the US inquiry suggests that he was not in a position to witness Murdoch being swept into the sea. It is also possible that Lightoller may have wanted to conceal the suicide, if it occurred, from Murdoch's widow. Later in life, Lightoller is said to have admitted that he \"knew someone who committed suicide that night\" but never said who.\n\nShortly after the sinking of the Titanic, the \"New York Herald\" published a story about Rigel, a dog reportedly owned by Murdoch who saved some of the survivors from the sinking. While the story was widely reproduced, contemporary analyses cast doubt on whether the dog actually existed.\nIn Murdoch's home town of Dalbeattie, Dumfries and Galloway, Scotland, there is a memorial to his heroism and a charitable prize has been established in his name. The charitable prize was given a donation by the James Cameron film for its portrayal of him after the residents of Dalbeattie complained.\n\nIn April 2012, Premier Exhibitions announced that it had identified Murdoch's belongings from a prior expedition to the wreck of the Titanic in 2000. There was a toiletry kit, a spare White Star Line officer's button, a straight razor, a shoe brush, a smoking pipe, and a pair of long johns. The items were recovered by David Concannon, Ralph White and Anatoly Sagalevitch diving in the Russian submersible Mir 1 in July 2000.\n\n\nThe reported incident of Murdoch's suicide has been portrayed in the 1996 miniseries and the 1997 film. When Murdoch's nephew Scott saw the latter, he objected to his uncle's portrayal as destroying Murdoch's heroic reputation, and studio executives later flew to Murdoch's hometown to issue an apology for this depiction. According to Cameron, then, his depiction of Murdoch was not of a man \"gone bad\", a \"cowardly murderer\", but of an \"honorable man\" who accepts full collective responsibility for the predicament they are in and for the death of 1,500 that were shortly to occur. He was overwhelmed by feelings of desperation and makes the ultimate payment by sacrificing his own life. He added, \"I'm not sure you'd find that same sense of responsibility and total devotion to duty today. This guy had half of his lifeboats launched before his counterpart on the port side had even launched one. That says something about character and heroism.\" This is perhaps why Murdoch has the privilege of being among those seen in Rose's \"dream sequence\" at the end of the film, implying his heroic reputation. He is shown standing next to Thomas Andrews, smiling as Rose drifts by and clapping along with the rest of the crowd of happy onlookers as she and Jack kiss.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4467954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4467954", "title": "Woolf Barnato", "text": "Woolf Barnato\n\nJoel Woolf Barnato (27 September 1895 – 27 July 1948) was a British financier and racing driver, one of the \"Bentley Boys\" of the 1920s. He achieved three consecutive wins out of three entries in the 24 Hours of Le Mans race.\n\nThe youngest son of Fanny Bees and Barney Barnato, who had made a fortune as a \"Randlord\" in South African diamond and gold mining, he was a relative of the Joel family of entrepreneurs.\n\nBorn at Spencer House, 27 St James's Place, London, he had a sister Leah Primrose (died 1933) and brother Isaac \"Jack\" Henry (died 1918 of bronchial pneumonia). The family divided their time between London, Brighton, Colwyn Bay and South Africa.\n\nIn 1897, when Woolf two years old, his father died near Madeira during a sea crossing from South Africa to London. The official verdict was suicide ('death by drowning while temporarily insane'). Woolf hence inherited his father's fortune at the time, but with the monies placed in trust, he only inherited his first instalment of £250,000, in 1914 aged 19. In addition, Woolf benefited from a further inheritance after the murder of Woolf Barnato Joel in Johannesburg in 1898.\n\nBarnato was educated at Charterhouse School and Trinity College, Cambridge.\n\nBarnato's attitude to a new sport that took his interests, was to immerse himself in the learning process, practising endlessly and taking lessons only from the very best instructors he could find. His desire to excel at whatever he attempted was considerable.\n\nHe collected prizes (including the 1925 Duke of York Trophy) for motor boat racing, using his Bentley-powered boat 'Ardenrun V', a good amateur boxer and a keen shot. He bred horses whilst at his house Ardenrun, and hunted with the Old Surrey and Burstow Foxhounds. He was a strong swimmer, and also played tennis to 'country house level'. He took golf lessons at Coombe Hill Golf Club, Kingston, Surrey, with the club professional Archie Compston, a friend of King Edward VIII.\n\nBarnato served as an officer in the Royal Field Artillery, British Army in World War I. Serving in France, Egypt and Palestine, he attained the rank of captain in the latter stages of the war.\n\nHaving claimed a share of the business's profits from 1897 to 1916, in 1917 he broke off his business arrangements with the Joels. After a long legal dispute in South Africa, Woolf settled for £900,000 plus £50,000 in costs. He then sued his family for the £50,000, as well as £23,883 for disbursements.\n\nFollowing settlement of the case, Barnato played first-class cricket, appearing as wicket-keeper with Surrey County Cricket Club from 1928 to 1930.\n\nBarnato acquired his first Bentley (a 3-litre) in 1925, just 12 months before he also acquired the business itself. With this car he won numerous Brooklands races. He was a member of a social set of wealthy British motorists known as the \"Bentley Boys\" who favoured the cars of W. O. Bentley. Many were independently wealthy, often with a background in military service. Barnato was nicknamed \"Babe\", in ironic deference to his heavyweight boxer's build.\n\nInspired by the 1924 Le Mans win by John Duff and Frank Clement, Barnato agreed to finance Bentley's business. Barnato had incorporated \"Baromans Ltd\" in 1922, which effectively existed as his finance and investment vehicle. Via Baromans, Barnato initially invested in excess of £100,000, saving the company and its workforce. A subsequent agreed wind-up of the original Bentley company was agreed, with all existing creditors paid off for £75,000, but with existing shares devalued from £1.00 each to just 1 shilling, or 5% or their original value. Barnato held 149,500 of the new shares, meaning that he controlled the company, and became chairman. Barnato injected further cash into the business: £35,000 as a debenture in July 1927; £40,000 in 1928; £25,000 in 1929.\n\nWith renewed financial input, W. O. Bentley was able to design another generation of cars, the six-cylinder 6½ Litre. However, the supercharged 4½ Litre (the famous \"Blower\" Bentley), which Barnato pushed through against Bentley's wishes, had poor durability and failed on the track.\n\nThe Wall Street Crash of 1929 affected the Bentley business greatly, with the Great Depression reducing demand for the company's expensive products. In July 1931 two mortgage payments on the firm that were guaranteed by Barnato fell due, and accepting the inevitable, he advised the lenders that he was \"unable to meet these debts.\" On 10 July, on the application of the mortgagee, the court appointed a Receiver to Bentley Motors Limited. After a period where it appeared that Napier was going to acquire the business, the firm passed into the hands of Rolls-Royce in November 1931 for the sum of £125,000 after a sealed bid auction.\n\nBarnato received around £42,000 in return for his shares in the business, having bought a sizeable stake in Rolls-Royce not long before Bentley Motors was liquidated. By 1934 he was again on the board of Bentley Motors (1931) Ltd.\n\nBarnato first went motor racing in 1921, when after importing an eight-litre Locomobile from the United States, he signed-up to race at the Brooklands Easter meeting. Having come third in the 100-mile Long Handicap, he then swapped to a Calthorpe to compete in the following Whitsun meeting. For the 1922 season he bought a 1921 chassis Talbot directly from its owner/driver Malcolm Campbell, and for 1923 a Sir Alastair Miller customised-racing Wolseley Racing Moth. At the start of the 1924 season Barnato obtained an eight-litre Hispano-Suiza H6C chassis, which he commissioned Jarvis of Wimbledon to build a suitable racing body for. Barnato then established an eight-litre class racing record for the car.\n\nIn late 1924 he obtained a prototype Bentley 3 Litre chassis, which was subsequently fitted with a boat-tail body by Jarvis for a cost of £400. Barnato used the car to win several major Brooklands races, and then partnered by John Duff set a new 3 Litre 24-hour record averaging at Autodrome de Montlhéry. Barnato later won the Brooklands Six Hour Race and Double Twelve Race in 1930. He was regarded by W. O. Bentley as, \"The best driver we ever had and, I consider, the best British driver of his day. One who never made a mistake and always obeyed orders.\"\n\nAs a driver, Barnato won the 24 Hours of Le Mans race three times:\n\nAs these were the only years in which he entered the race, Barnato is the only Le Mans driver with a perfect wins-to-starts ratio. Bentley, under his chairmanship, also won the race in 1927, with Dr. J. Dudley \"Benjy\" Benjafield and S. C. H. \"Sammy\" Davis in a Bentley 3 Litre.\n\nIn March 1930 at the Carlton Hotel, Cannes, during the Blue Train Races, Woolf Barnato raised the stakes on Rover and its Rover Light Six. Having raced and beaten \"Le Train Bleu\" for the first time, Barnato claimed that he could not only beat the Blue Train from Cannes to Calais, but could reach London in his 6½ Litre Bentley Speed Six before the train even reached Calais, on a bet of 100 pounds sterling.\n\nHe set off from the bar of the Carlton Hotel at just before 6pm on 13 March, accompanied by his friend Dale Bourne as unofficial co-driver. They stopped for fuel at Aix-en-Provence, Lyon, Auxerre and Paris. He arrived at the docks in Boulogne at 10:30 am on 14 March, in time for the 11:30 sailing to Folkestone. Barnato reached Dale Bourne's club (the Conservative) in St James's, London, at around 3:30 pm, having covered the in 22½ hrs, at an average speed of .\n\nBarnato drove an H. J. Mulliner-bodied formal saloon in the race; the streamlined fastback \"Sportsman Coupé\" by Gurney Nutting which he took delivery of on 21 May 1930 also became known as the \"Blue Train Bentley\" and is regularly mistaken for or erroneously referred to as being the car that raced the Blue Train, while in fact Barnato named it in memory of his race. Further confusion is caused by the well-known painting by Terence Cuneo which depicts the Gurney Nutting car. Both vehicles are still in existence.\n\nFrom 1940 to 1945, Barnato was a wing commander with the Royal Air Force, responsible for the protection of aircraft factories against Nazi Luftwaffe bombing raids. He continued various low-key business opportunities out of his office on Park Lane.\n\nBarnato was married three times:\n\nBarnato's daughter Diana Barnato Walker MBE learned to fly at the Brooklands Flying Club in 1938 at age 20. She went on to ferry Spitfires, Hurricanes and Wellingtons with the Air Transport Auxiliary during World War II.\n\nBarnato lived for most of the time in London, at his house at 39 Elsworthy Road, Hampstead whilst married to Dorothy Maitland and, after his divorce, at his flat at 50 Grosvenor Square in Mayfair, on the south east corner of the square. Other Bentley Boys also had flats in the same block and, such was the number of Bentley cars parked outside, the location was known to taxi drivers as 'Bentley's Corner'.\n\nHe also owned Ardenrun Place, a country house situated near Lingfield, Surrey. Originally built in 1906–1909 by Ernest Newton for the Konig family, the house was the scene of many lavish motor racing-themed parties for Barnato and his friends, but was destroyed by fire on 14 March 1933. He also owned the nearby Nuthill Farm in Redhill, which was used by his ex-wife Dorothy and his daughters Diana and Virginia at weekends.\n\nAfter the loss of Ardenrun, in 1938 he built a large castellated home named Ridgemead in Englefield Green, Surrey, at a cost of more than £100,000. Designed by Robert Lutyens, son of Sir Edwin Lutyens, Ridgemead featured innovations such as central heating, a 'talkie' cinema and a drive lit by secret light rays. It boasted 25 bedrooms, a heated swimming pool and was set in 25 acres of land overlooking the River Thames at Runnymede. Upon Barnato's death in 1948, his wife Joan sold the house for £25,000 and it became a nursing home, which it remains.\n\nDuring his final marriage, he purchased an eight-acre plot named Perot's Island, in Bermuda, \"as an investment after my death\".\n\nBarnato died at the London Clinic, Devonshire Place, on 27 July 1948, aged just 53, as a result of a thrombosis after an operation for cancer.\n\nHis funeral cortege was led by his Bentley 'Old Number One', which was covered with flowers and wreaths. He is buried at St Jude's Church in Englefield Green, Surrey (grave 286, plot 25), next to his son-in-law Derek Walker (who had married his daughter Diana in 1944 and was killed in an aircraft crash in 1945). Estimates of his wealth at the time of his death were between £1.5 and 5m.\n\nThe Sports Car Club of America (SCCA) named its highest award in Barnato's honour; the first Woolf Barnato Award was presented in 1948, and has been presented every year from 1948 to the present (including the period it was renamed the Carl Haas Award, 1994–2001). Recipients are nominated by the past three winners and approved by SCCA's board of directors.\n\n"}
{"id": "12966996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12966996", "title": "Æthelwold (bishop of Lichfield)", "text": "Æthelwold (bishop of Lichfield)\n\nÆthelwold (or Æthelweald; died 830) was a medieval Bishop of Lichfield.\n\nÆthelwald was consecrated in 818 and died in 830.\n"}
