{"id": "38070728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38070728", "title": "2003 Ringera Judiciary Report", "text": "2003 Ringera Judiciary Report\n\nThe 2003 Ringera Judiciary Report was a Kenya Government report published by the \"Integrity and Anti-Corruption Committee of the Judiciary in Kenya\" in order to implement a policy known as \"radical surgery\" introduced by the new government of President Mwai Kibaki. The committee was led by Justice Aaron Ringera. \n\nFrom the report 5 of 9 Court of Appeal Justices, 18 of 36 High Court Judges and 82 out of 254 Magistrates were implicated as corrupt. \nA two-week ultimatum to either resign or be dismissed was issued to these Justices and Magistrates. \nSeveral resigned or “retired”, while some mounted legal challenges against their dismissals. Tribunals to hear these cases then begun.\nJustice Philip Waki was acquitted in late 2004.\n"}
{"id": "13488106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13488106", "title": "2007 Georgian demonstrations", "text": "2007 Georgian demonstrations\n\nIn 2007, a series of anti-government protests took place across Georgia. The demonstrations peaked on 2 November 2007, when 50,000–100,000 rallied in downtown Tbilisi, the capital of Georgia. People protested against the allegedly corrupt government of president Mikheil Saakashvili. Protests triggered by detention of Georgian politician Irakli Okruashvili on charges of extortion, money laundering, and abuse of office during his tenure as defense minister of the country were organized by the National Council, an ad-hoc coalition of ten opposition parties, and financed by the media tycoon Badri Patarkatsishvili. Demonstrations occurred both in September and November 2007 and were initially largely peaceful. The protests went downhill by 6 November 2007, but turned violent the next day when the police, using heavy-handed tactics, including tear gas and water cannon, unblocked Rustaveli Avenue, Tbilisi's main boulevard, dislodged the protesters from the territory adjoining to the House of Parliament, and prevented the demonstrators from resuming the protests. The government accused the Russian secret services of being involved in an attempted coup d'état and declared a nationwide state of emergency later that day which lasted until late 16 November 2007.\n\nOn 8 November 2007, President Saakashvili announced a compromise solution to hold an early presidential election for 5 January 2008. He also proposed to hold a referendum in parallel to snap presidential elections about when to hold parliamentary polls – in spring as pushed for by the opposition parties, or in late 2008.\n\nIt is said to have been the worst political crisis in Georgia since the Rose Revolution in 2003 that brought Saakashvili's government to power in the first place.\n\nGeorgia in 2003 underwent a change of leadership that saw the coming to power of Mikheil Saakashvili in 2004. Saakashvili, a U.S. trained lawyer and staunch advocate for closer integration with the NATO and European Union, instituted reforms that saw the nation's GDP triple and corruption drop since taking office. In 2006, the World Bank named Georgia as the top reformer in the world. Despite the progress, a significant portion of Georgia's population still live below the poverty line and Georgia is one of the poorest countries in the CIS. Growing incomes are offset by rising inflation; radical economic reforms and a crackdown on the black market left thousands unemployed; and since the reforms, many Georgians are having to pay tax and utility bills in full. Although the Saakashvili government has declared war on corruption, its critics alleges corruption in Saakashvili's own team, including his uncle – the entrepreneur Temur Alasania – and several ministers. The opponents say the authorities use selective application of the law to sideline political opponents, and accuse Saakashvili of authoritarian rule. The government has also come under the fire of criticism due to the use of heavy-handed police against the 2006 prison riot, as well as due to the underinvestigated high-profile murder case involving police officers.\n\nSaakashvili also inherited the issues of the Russian-backed unrecognized breakaway republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, which seceded from Georgia in the early 1990s. As of the time of the demonstrations, they were de facto independent but de jure part of Georgia. Saakashvili had made it part of his agenda to reincorporate them through peaceful means. Others within Saakashvili's government, such as the defence minister Irakli Okruashvili had been pushing for a military solution for these de facto republics.\n\nSaaskashvili reassigned the portfolio of Okruashvili from defence to Minister of the Economy in November 2006. It was believed that the reassignment came due to Okruashvili’s aggressive stance on the secessionist conflicts. Okruashvili subsequently resigned his post.\n\nOn 25 September 2007, he announced the formation of the new opposition Movement for United Georgia and unleashed criticism on President Saakashvili, accusing him of corruption, incompetency and human rights violations. He also raised new concerns around Zurab Zhvania's death, challenging the official investigation point of view and personally accused the Georgian president of planning the murder of businessman Badri Patarkatsishvili.\n\nProtests started on 28 September 2007. There was no major trouble reported at the rally, except for some minor scuffles between protesters and police when the protesters spilled out onto Rustaveli Avenue, blocking Tbilisi's main thoroughfare in front of the parliament. Demonstrators were demanding early elections, more accountability and honesty in politics.\n\nThe rally was organized by an alliance of major opposition parties with the exception of the New Rights which distanced themselves from the manifestation stating that it was \"not the way from one temple to another, it is substitute of one leader with another.\"\n\nPreviously, former Georgian Minister of Defense and long-time critic of Moscow's policy towards Georgia Irakly Okruashvili has lashed out at his former associate President Mikheil Saakashvili. Okruashvili had been sacked by the president, in November 2006, from his post of Defense Minister allegedly under pressure from the West in September 2006.\n\nAt the presentation of his party For United Georgia, he accused Saakashvili of corruption, lobbying the interests of his own family, weakness towards separatists in Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and a lack of morals. Okruashvili also claimed that the Georgian government had intentionally obscured the true reasons behind the death of former Prime Minister Zurab Zhvania. Zhvania had died while Prime Minister in February 2005. Okruashvili said that Zhvania's corpse had been taken to the apartment where he was found dead.\n\nOkruashvili retracted his statements and admitted to the charges raised against him on 8 October 2007 on television, but he later said he made the statements due to being \"psychologically pressured\".\n\nOkruashvili left Georgia around 1 November 2007. He subsequently said he was forced into exile; the government said he left to seek medical treatment. The following April he was granted political asylum by the government of France. In September 2008, a French court rejected Georgia's extradition request. Okruashvili has been described as \"a likely candidate to replace Saakashvili, if and when Georgian public opinion turns against the president.\"\n\nOkruashvili's political comeback and his arrest coincided with Saakashvili's visit to New York City where he addressed the U.N. General Assembly and heavily criticized Russia's involvement in Georgia's breakaway territories. Meanwhile, Giga Bokeria, an influential member of the Parliament of Georgia from the ruling United National Movement party, said by voicing stunning, but groundless accusations Okruashvili wanted \"to create some kind of immunity and untouchable status.\" On 29 September, President Saakashvili headed to Upper Abkhazia where he attended opening of a new road linking Georgian-controlled areas in breakaway Abkhazia with Georgia proper. He made his first remarks on Okruashvili's accusations: \n\nOn 2 November 2007, tens of thousands of Georgians protested outside the parliament in the capital, Tbilisi, urging President Mikhail Saakashvili to step down. The crowd also called for early parliamentary elections. They accused Saakashvili of heading a corrupt, authoritarian government and wanted him to be ousted democratically.\n\nThe protests continued in the following days; a televised statement from Okruashvili was seen as a boost in support for the opposition.\n\nTwenty-three law enforcement officers were injured and 21 people were arrested during the riots.\n\nTV footage showed some protesters throwing stones at riot policemen. They were dispersed by police a second time.\n\nTwo pro-opposition independent TV stations have gone off the air after Badri Patarkatsishvili declared that \"Nobody should doubt that all my efforts, my financial resources including the last tetri will be applied for freeing Georgia from Fascist regime\": Imedi TV (that is co-owned by the media tycoon Badri Patarkatsishvili who sponsored the National Council recently set up by the ten opposition parties and has pledged to finance the rallies until the government is removed) and Kavkasia, located in the same building as Imedi TV. Police officers in masks and assault rifles were seen sealing off the Imedi office. Shortly afterwards, Mikheil Saakashvili declared a state of emergency Georgia-wide to last for 15 days. As a result, news programs at all the private television stations will be shut down for 15 days. The publicly funded Georgian Public Broadcaster (GPB) remained the only station allowed to provide news coverage.\n\nOn 8 November, a \"small group of students\" gathered at Batumi State University to rally against what they saw as the \"police violence\" that had occurred the previous day. According to eyewitnesses interviewed by Human Rights Watch, \"police attacked the group without warning, chasing and beating protesters trying to flee.\" Holly Cartner, Executive Director [of] Europe and Central Asia Division at Human Rights Watch condemned what she described as \"police attacks on peaceful protesters\".\n\nSoon, Georgia's opposition announced the suspension of anti-government protests in Tbilisi. Most of the opposition parties hailed President Saakashvili’s decision as the first step to end the political standoff, and agreed to the negotiations with Nino Burjanadze, the parliamentary chairperson.\n\nBy 9 November 2007, riot police and troops had been withdrawn from the main sites of 7 November unrest. On the same day, Ilia II, Catholicos-Patriarch of the Georgian Orthodox Church met separately with Nino Burjanadze and opposition leaders and said that he was ready to mediate between the opposition and the authorities.\n\nSaakasvili commented the clashes by saying \"We have been hearing for recent months that turmoil was expected in Georgia by autumn. We have been receiving this information from our intelligence\" and that \"alternative government has already been set up in Moscow\".\n\nPrime Minister Zurab Nogaideli said a coup attempt was made.\n\nOn 7 November, Georgia's Interior Ministry released taped audio and video material purporting to show some opposition leaders – Levan Berdzenishvili of the Republican Party, Giorgi Khaindrava of opposition group Equality Institute, Konstantine Gamsakhurdia, the leader of the Freedom Movement and Shalva Natelashvili, the leader of Labor Party – cooperating with the Russian counter-intelligence service during a meeting with three Russian diplomats.\n\nGigi Ugulava, Tbilisi's mayor, defended the action by police, saying: \"I was listening to one of the opposition leaders who was saying proudly they planned to pitch tents and set up a tent town in Tbilisi. \"What we did is stop this because it is the will of the people not to have a tent town in Tbilisi.\"\n\nThe opposition leaders, NGOs and the public defender of Georgia have harshly criticised the government actions. The police was accused of excessiveness, and it was alleged that groups of organized civilians were also engaged in the crackdown on the protesters. Illegal arrests, beatings and intimidations were reported. Concerns have been expressed about widespread practice of tapping private telephone conversations. The government has been accused of media control.\n<onlyinclude>\nIn December 2008, Sozar Subari, Public Defender (Ombudsman) of Georgia, claimed he had evidence that then Georgia's Interior Minister Vano Merabishvili had ordered police to beat protesters, \"mainly in the kidneys and the stomach.\" In his testimony before Georgian Parliament, Subari claimed that he possessed evidence that Defense Minister Davit Kezerashvili, Justice Minister Zurab Adeishvili and Davit Akhalaia (who had no official office then) had had a secret meeting at the office of Interior Ministry on 4 November 2007 where they had decided on the course of action for handling the demonstrations: \n\n\"The interior minister ordered that the demonstrators be hit mainly in the kidneys and the stomach, or in the face only when necessary. The interior minister also said at the meeting that not a single participant in the action must escape unbeaten in order to teach them a lesson for the future.\"\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\nOn 25 November 2007, thousands of protesters staged a three-hour peaceful demonstration demanding the re-opening of Imedi TV and radio stations. The protest, organized by a nine party opposition coalition, gathered in an area called the Rike in Tblisi and then moved to the front of the Parliament.\n\n – The United States welcomed the Georgian government’s decision to hold early presidential elections, while urging to end the state of emergency and restore all media broadcasts.\nOn 13 November 2007, Matthew Bryza, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs and the top U.S. envoy to the Caucasus, told reporters that he would be very surprised if there had been a real threat from Russia to destabilize Georgia.\n\nNATO – Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer in a statement on 8 November 2007 said that \"The imposition of Emergency Rule, and the closure of media outlets in Georgia, a Partner with which the Alliance has an Intensified Dialogue, are of particular concern and not in line with Euro-Atlantic values\"\n\nHuman Rights Watch – On 20 December 2007, Human Rights Watch released a 102-page report, named \"Crossing the Line: Georgia’s Violent Dispersal of Protestors and Raid on Imedi Television\", criticising what it saw as the Government's \"usage of excessive force\" on protesters the police's raide on Imedi.\n\nOn 8 November 2007, Saakashvili announced he was planning snap presidential elections for 5 January 2008. He also proposed to hold a simultaneous plebiscite about when to hold parliamentary polls – in spring as pushed for by the opposition parties, or in late 2008. He also called for dialogue with the opposition parties which, he said, did not cooperate with the Russian intelligence, and promised to end the state of emergency within a few days.\n\nThe Georgian authorities charged Patarkatsishvili, who had earlier left for London, with plotting a coup. He died on 12 February 2008, in London.\n\nOn 9 November 2007, the Parliament of Georgia, in a complete absence of opposition lawmakers, backed the presidential decree imposing state of emergency and restrictions on media on the entire territory of Georgia to be in force until late 22 November.\n\nOn 10 November 2007, the talks regarding the election code resumed between the ruling and opposition parties.\n\nThe nationwide state of emergency was lifted at 7 pm local time on 16 November 2007, in accordance to the parliament's decree passed two days earlier. All media sources resumed broadcasting with the exception of Imedi TV which returned on air on 12 December.\n\nRobert Christiansen, the head of the IMF's Georgia mission, indicated that the turmoil and pre-election uncertainty has dented Georgia's image with investors, adding that recovery was possible. He added that \"recent political developments add considerable uncertainty to the projected volume of inflows for the remainder of this year and 2008\".\n\nAccording to Prime Minister Lado Gurgenidze, during the November turmoils Georgian economy lost nearly half a billion dollars of potential investments.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2134561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134561", "title": "Agrarian Union \"Aleksandar Stamboliyski\"", "text": "Agrarian Union \"Aleksandar Stamboliyski\"\n\nThe Agrarian Union \"Aleksandar Stamboliyski\" (, \"Zemedelski Sayuz \"Aleksandar Stamboliyski\"\", ZS-AS), is a progressive agrarian political party in Bulgaria.\n\nIt was founded in 1993 by members of the Bulgarian Agrarian People's Union. Until 2005 it was known as the Bulgarian Agrarian People's Union \"Aleksandar Stamboliyski\" (Balgarski Zemedelski Naroden Sajuz \"Alexander Stambolijski\", BZNS-AS). Since 2001 it is part of the Coalition for Bulgaria, an alliance led by the Bulgarian Socialist Party.\n\nAt the Bulgarian parliamentary election in 2009, the Coalition for Bulgaria received 17.7% of the popular vote and 40 out of 240 seats. The party had only 1 seat for its leader Panchev.\n\n"}
{"id": "55981243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55981243", "title": "Aistyonok", "text": "Aistyonok\n\nAistyonok (, \"Stork\"; GRAU designation 1L271) is a Counter-battery radar system developed and produced by Almaz-Antey for the Russian Armed Forces. It is a mobile radar for the purpose of detecting position of fire weapons such as field artillery and anti-aircraft weapons, calculating the trajectory of incoming shells, and the control of unmanned aerial vehicles. Aistyonok can detect moving ground targets at a distance of up to , with capabilities to detect mortar fire positions at a distance of up to , moving ground equipment at a distance of up to , and the adjustment of artillery fire from to depending on the conditions.\n\nThe Aistyonok system was debuted in 2008, and has since been introduced for limited use in the North Caucasus by the Russian Armed Forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "35856983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35856983", "title": "Brenda Cherry", "text": "Brenda Cherry\n\nBrenda Cherry (born March 19, 1958), is an American Civil Rights Activist from Paris, Texas. \n\nCherry is the President and co-founder of Concerned Citizens for Racial Equality, a non-profit civil rights organization located in Paris, Texas. Founded in 2003, CCFRE co-sponsored events with the U.S. Department of Justice, Lone Star Legal Aid, and the American Civil Liberties Union.\n\nCherry grew up in Blossom Texas. Her late father, Zeb Reynolds, was a farmer, and her mother, Irene Whitney, was a domestic worker. She began school at T.G. Givens, which was then, a segregated school in Paris, Texas. She had to be bused 10 miles to the school even though there was a local school district in the town where she lived. After the schools were forced to integrate, she attended the formerly \"whites only\" school in Blossom. Cherry graduated from Prairiland High School in Pattonville, Texas. She went on to attend Paris Junior College and East Texas State University. Cherry worked as a Licensed Vocational Nurse for 9 years before becoming a civil rights activist. Cherry has two daughters, Shauncia Cherry and Tiffany Cherry, and one son, Rico Lewis.\n\nOn October 23, 2003, an 11-year-old black student was reportedly attacked by a principal at Crockett Middle School in Paris, Texas. The child was removed from the school and sent to a detention center. Cherry, along with a small group of people, including the child’s mother and grandfather, staged a protest in front of the school. During the protest, the child was released from the detention center. This event marked the beginning of several future protest demonstrations in the town.\n\nShaquanda Cotton was an African-American student that attended Paris High School in Paris, Texas. On March 16, 2006, Cotton, aged 14, was arrested for allegedly shoving a school hall monitor. \nHaving no prior criminal history, Cotton was tried and sentenced to up to 7 years in the Texas Youth Commission. During the same time frame, the judge in the case, Chuck Superville, sentenced a Caucasian 14-year-old girl who had a prior criminal history to probation after committing the confirmed crime of arson. Writer Darwin Campbell with \"African-American News and Issues\" broke the story, which garnered attention to Cotton’s sentencing. After serving a year and one month in prison, the \"Chicago Tribune\" story written by Howard Witt led the case to national exposure. A large protest led by comedian Rickey Smiley was held at the Lamar County Courthouse in Paris, Texas. Approximately two weeks after the \"Tribune\" article and protest, ShaQuanda was released. Cherry was interviewed by the BBC regarding Cotton, and the case was included in a BBC documentary by United Kingdom reporter Julian O'Halloran.\n\nBrandon McClelland was a 24-year-old African American male who lived in Paris, Texas. On September 16, 2008, his body was found partially dismembered and mutilated on a farm road approximately 17 miles from his home. The local newspaper, \"The Paris News\", reported the death as a hit-and-run by an unknown truck. Due to the activism of Cherry and the Concerned Citizens for Racial Equality, the case gained national attention.\n\nAfter dispute about whether McClelland was dragged under the truck or behind it, and while awaiting autopsy reports, \"USA Today\" interviewed Cherry. \"Authorities have not seriously considered the possibility that this was a hate crime. There's a problem in Paris, Texas. I don't see a difference in getting dragged behind a truck and getting dragged under a truck.\"\n\nFurther investigation revealed that McClelland was last seen alive with two Caucasian men, Shannon Finley and Charles Ryan Crostley, both of whom had extensive criminal history. \"Anderson Cooper 360°\" reported that the two men were charged with killing McClelland and both subsequently plead \"not guilty.\" Special prosecutor Toby Shook cited lack of evidence to the case, and the murder charges were dropped in June 2009. The two men were released. CBS News quoted Cherry, \"His body was dragged and nobody gets charged? Even if a trucker came forward, that's all it takes? Even the trucker's not charged? If you hit someone, you don't get charged? Nobody gets charged with this? It's not surprising, but it's sad. It appears that a black man's life means nothing here in Paris.\" Multiple protests have been led by Cherry, along with Jim Blackwell and the New Black Panther Party. The case remains an open murder investigation.\n\nBrandarian Thomas was a 14-year-old African American student at Travis Junior High School in Paris, Texas. In June 2008, Police handcuffed and arrested Thomas at his home for allegedly \"touching a female student's butt and crotch\" in class. Thomas denied the accusations. Thomas' mother contacted Cherry, who convinced her to take the case to trial rather than accept a plea deal. \"Texas Observer\" reporter Forrest Wilder documented the case. Cherry views the Cotton and Thomas prosecutions as extreme examples of a larger pattern of racial discrimination in Paris public schools. Cherry stated, \"The black kids are punished more often, more harshly. I think they go to extremes; they punish them for little things. A lot of times, they see a black kid as more menacing.\" Though prosecutors offered a plea deal to Thomas (two years of probation in exchange for a guilty plea), Cherry helped convince Thomas' mother to take the matter to trial in front of the same judge who heard the Cotton case. \"It's ridiculous,\" Cherry stated. \"He was 14. You're going to ruin his life because you can't make him plead guilty?\"\n\nCornelius Gill was an 18-year-old African American high school student in Paris, Texas. On November 11, 2009, Gill was picking up pecans when he was approached by a Paris police officer who questioned him about a stolen car that had been found a few blocks away. Gill refused to be questioned and said a curse word. The officer arrested Gill and placed him in handcuffs behind his back. When another police car pulled up, Gill was lifted and body slammed face down onto the vehicle. Cherry witnessed a portion of the incident and she, along with Gill's mother, filed a complaint with the Paris Police Department. Cherry obtained the video of the incident. Gill was sentenced to 100 days in jail by Judge Chuck Superville. Although the video footage shows no evidence of such, the officer claimed Gill assaulted him while placing him in the patrol car. Gill was charged with Assault of a Public Servant and Resisting Arrest. The complaint resulted in a suspension of the officer, but the suspension was lifted when the officer appealed. The case resulted in an outcry from civilians regarding police brutality and unnecessary force.\n\nAccording to the \"Huffington Post\", Cherry stated that the ruling sends a message to local police that they can do whatever they want. \"What's going to stop the officer from doing that again and again? It makes me fearful,\" she said. The dash cam video was released after Concerned Citizens for Racial Equality filed an open records request. \"We're already in a bad situation here in Paris, and this just makes it worse,\" Cherry stated.\n\nBobby Yates was a 51-year-old African American man in Paris, Texas. Yates was paralyzed from the waist down due to a gunshot wound during a hunting accident approximately 20 years earlier. His lower body was removed from his hips down due to an infection. On a late night in 2008, Yates made a 911 call to the local police stating that he had been beaten by a 16-year-old white female and two adult males who were at his home that refused to leave. When the police came, the female claimed that Yates had sexually assaulted her. The two males were with her the entire time. The police sided with the female, and Yates was later arrested and charged with sexual assault. Cherry along with her organization held protests and filed complaints on Yates' behalf. After 3 years of legal action, the sexual assault charge was dismissed.\nAaron Hart was an 18-year-old mentally retarded youth with an IQ of 47 when he was arrested and charged with sexual assault. Hart had been playing with a 5-year-old child and they exposed and touched each other's private parts. At trial, Hart's court-appointed attorney called no witnesses on Hart's behalf and failed to obtain an independent doctor for a competency hearing. Judge Eric Clifford sentenced Hart to 100 years in prison on June 10, 2009, claiming that he had no other choice. Within the same time frame, Clifford had sentenced a defendant charged with the same offense, and without a disability, to four years in prison. Hart was allegedly sexually assaulted while awaiting trial in Lamar County Jail. Cherry and her organization advocated on Hart's behalf. Numerous protest marches were held, led by CCFRE and Jim Blackwell of the Tarrant County Local Organizing Committee. The case gained national attention. \"This is just horrible,\" stated Cherry in a \"Los Angeles Times\" article after Judge Clifford made his ruling. \"How could the judge not take his mental ability into consideration?\"\n\nHart was given a new trial on appeal. Hart ultimately accepted a plea deal and was sentenced to 10 years in prison where he remains.\n\nTurner Industries is a privately owned industrial plant with facilities in several cities and states including Paris, Texas. In February 2009, Concerned Citizens for Racial Equality received complaints and photos regarding a noose, racist graffiti, Confederate flags, and salary and advancement discrimination against black workers in the Turner Industries Paris plant. Activism led to a federal investigation by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The findings led to a federal lawsuit which was settled out of court, as well as changes in Turner Industries employment practices. Cherry stated, \"One of my biggest concerns regarding the racist graffiti, noose, and other things found at the plant is the mentality of those who put it there. Those same people serve on juries, and some go on to have supervisory positions or other positions of authority.\" The Turner Industries investigation was one of the largest civil rights investigations ever undertaken in the State of Texas.\n\nOn April 20, 2011, a 14-year-old African American autistic student was taken by an 18-year-old Caucasian student into the greenhouse at Paris High School. The 18-year-old threw a rope over a beam and placed the other end around the waist of the 14-year-old. He kicked his feet and beat his hand with a stick until bloody when the 14-year-old attempted to get free. The girlfriend of the 18-year-old student stood laughing and recorded the incident with her cell phone. When the group returned to class, a male teacher took the recording and erased it. After the school refused to discipline the 18-year-old and his girlfriend, or the teacher who erased the evidence, Cherry and CCFRE advocated on behalf of the mother, Tina Washington, and her son. The county attorney refused to charge the 18-year-old student even though it was a felony offense. Several protests were led by Cherry and Jim Blackwell regarding the incident. The case is currently under investigation by the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights.\n\nConcerned Citizens for Racial Equality co-sponsored a community reconciliation meeting with the U.S. Department of Justice which was featured in the \"Chicago Tribune\". \"I'm here to talk about racism. I don't see any sense in playing games, pretending it doesn't exist,\" stated Cherry. \"When you go in the schools and see mostly black kids sitting in detention—it's racism. In court, we get high bonds, we get longer sentences. If that's not racism, what is it?\"\n\n\"This town is being forced to look at things they never wanted to look at before,\" stated Cherry in an excerpt from \"Newsweek\". Cherry, along with Lone Star Legal Aid, a local nonprofit law firm, compiled statistics showing that the Paris Independent School District punished black kids eight times more often than white ones, even though blacks make up a minority of the population. The U.S. Department of Education ruled that there wasn't enough evidence to attribute the discrepancy to racism. \"The New York Times\" quoted Cherry, \"I think we are probably stuck in 1930 right about now. If you complain about anything, you are going to be punished.\"\n\nCherry has been an advocate for civil and human rights, and continues her work to address race and humanitarian issues.\n"}
{"id": "14281911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14281911", "title": "Camp of Great Poland", "text": "Camp of Great Poland\n\nCamp of Great Poland (, OWP) was a far-right, nationalist political organization of National Democracy in interwar Poland.\n\nCamp of Great Poland was founded on 4 December 1926 in Poznań by Popular National Union (\"Związek Ludowo-Narodowy\", ZLN) and other organizations of right-wing National Democracy political camp, led by Roman Dmowski, to unite Polish right-wing organizations and oppose \"sanacja\" regime, which gained power following Józef Piłsudski's May Coup in 1926. After merging with National Pupulist Union in 1928 OWP retained its autonomy within newly established National Party ().\n\nIn 1927 youth branch of the organization was established ()., which virtually dominated OWP by 1928. OWP positions in Polish universities among students were especially strong, it also gained popularity among workers and the lower middle class. In January 1930 Camp of Great Poland had 35,000 members, in May 1932 its membership reached 120,000. By 1933 OWP claimed to have a quarter of a million followers.\n\nOutbreaks of the anti-Jewish violence in Eastern Galicia in 1927 led the organization to be banned in that region that year. After a further wave of nationwide violence in 1933 OWP eventually banned in entire Poland. Government, alarmed by rapid growth of OWP, banned the organization together with its youth movement on 28 March 1933. on the grounds that these organizations threatened stability of the state. After dissolution of the organization, even more radical young members of OWP formed the National Radical Camp (). ONR would be banned soon after its establishment, in 1934.\n\nCamp of Great Poland was led by the Great Council (). The head of the Council, with the title of the Great Camp-maker () was Roman Dmowski; other notable members included Tadeusz Bielecki, Marian Borzęcki, Stanisław Haller and Roman Rybarski.\n\nCamp of Great Poland supported strongly religious corporative authoritarianism, borrowing some ideas from Italian fascism.\n\nOWP did not pursue its goals on the political scene, increasingly controlled by Piłsudskiite Sanacja; instead it aimed to create a violent, revolutionary movement aimed at toppling the government. Camp of Great Poland even had its own fighting squads organized.\n\nOWP front organization, the Green Ribbon League () actively propagated a boycott of the Jewish-owned businesses. In early 1930s OWP campaigned for numerus nullus, a policy of complete exclusion of Jewish students and academics from Polish universities. OWP anti-Jewish activities weren't however limited to political means only. OWP openly incited anti-Jewish riots, and its youth movement advocated violence against Jewish students. OWP and related youth organizations were engaged in violent attacks against Jews. Those attacks eventually led the Polish government to ban the organization.\n\nOrganization was many times re-established, the first time as political party in Lublin (1993) by prof. Jan Trochimiak. After founded in 2003 as an ordinary association in Wroclaw. Finally, in 2012 the OWP was registered in the National Registrar of Companies and Legal Entities (Krajowy Rejestr Sądowy; KRS) in Warsaw, gaining legal personality. Honorary chairman of the OWP is Jan Kobylański.\n\n"}
{"id": "268343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268343", "title": "Combat Zones That See", "text": "Combat Zones That See\n\nCombat Zones That See, or CTS, is a project of the United States Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) whose goal is to \"track everything that moves\" in a city by linking up a massive network of surveillance cameras to a centralised computer system. Artificial intelligence software will then identify and track all movement throughout the city.\n\nCTS is described by DARPA as intended for use in combat zones, to deter enemy attacks on United States troops and to identify and track enemy combatants who launch attacks against U.S. soldiers.\n\nCivil liberties activists and writers of dystopian fiction believe that such programs have great potential for privacy violations, and have openly opposed the project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52535665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52535665", "title": "Companions of Jehu", "text": "Companions of Jehu\n\nThe Companions of Jehu were formed in the Lyon region of France in April 1795 to hunt down Jacobins implicated in the Reign of Terror. It is possible that they were founded by The Marquis de Besignan, who also founded royalist underground groups in Forez and Dauphiné with the Prince of Condé in 1796. Their victims are believed to have numbered at least in the hundreds. They were made famous by the 1857 novel \"The Companions of Jehu\" by Alexandre Dumas which presented a highly romanticised account of them.\n\nJehu was an Old Testament character, immortalised in Racine's drama \"Athalie\". He was famous for having killed Jezebel by throwing her out of a window. According to the Books of Kings Jezebel was responsible for inciting her husband King Ahab to abandon the worship of the true God and follow the cult of Baal instead. She also brought false testimony against Naboth and had him killed, and was the cause of much violence and bloodshed. By analogy, Jezebel represented the Jacobins of France, responsible for turning France away from the Catholic religion, bringing false testimony against patriotic citizens and executing them, and spreading violence and bloodshed through the Reign of Terror. By the same analogy, Jehu was the force of righteous retribution, come to restore the true religion, and kill Jezebel, her children and all those who had turned away from the Lord. The reference to Jehu was not universally understood however, and through misunderstanding, uncertain repetition and assimilation with the broader idea of religious restoration, many people referred to \"the Companions of Jesus\" instead of \"the Companions of Jehu\", despite this name being essentially meaningless, as was pointed out by Louis Blanc.\n\nThe first reference to their existence appears in the records of the National Convention in a report presented on 25 June 1795 from Marie-Joseph Chénier on the recent killings in Lyons. His account says:\n\nOn 4 May 1795, 99 Jacobin prisoners were massacred in the town prisons by members of the companions. Over the following days the violence became more widespread and more murders took place as Jacobins were drowned, beaten to death and had their throats cut in their own homes or in the streets. The newspapers encouraged the murder of \"Terrorists\" and \"Drinkers of Blood\", and a list of people to be targeted, ninety pages long, was published in Lausanne and openly circulated. This phase of the White Terror continued until the army re-established control and various ringleaders were arrested and brought before the criminal court of Isère. The number of victims of the Companions of Jehu is impossible to know, because there is no reliable way of distinguishing between organised murders and more chaotic lynchings.\n\nAn order of 23 May 1796 by General Mointchoisy directed that \"to prevent the assassinations committed by the Companions of Jesus, it is forbidden to all citizens under any pretext whatsoever to carry swordsticks, throwing sticks, or batons weighted with lead or iron.\"\n\nSome historians, including Jacques Godechot, have argued that the Companions of Jehu never actually existed. According to Lenotre, the Directory sought to identify and punish royalists, emigres and refractory priests, and actively looked for people associated with the Companions of Jehu. However although various criminals were arrested, none of them was a priest, emigre or royalist. All those arrested for murder and other serious crimes had been acting independently and there was no organised movement or any coordination between them. The tribunal, under Legris, concluded that there were no registers or membership lists for the Companions of Jehu. Later, under Louis XVIII, many royalists who had played very minor parts in resisting the revolution received pensions or decorations, but nobody ever came forward and claimed to have been a member of the Company of Jehu.\n\nWhile the Companions of Jehu were organised in and around Lyon, a similar group known as 'les Compagnies du Soleil' (The Companions of the Sun) formed and was active in Provence and Gard. The company's members considered it a sign of strength to carry the symbol of a splash of blood on their hands. During the White Terror a group of Jacobins was able to take control of the city of Toulon from 17–23 May 1795, and the Companions of the Sun were particularly associated with the repression and reprisals which took place after the army under General Pactod regained control of the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "4231129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4231129", "title": "Crusties", "text": "Crusties\n\nThe term 'crusties' can refer to two distinct, but not entirely separate, subcultural groups. Particularly in North America, but to some extent worldwide, the term is used to refer to crust punks or gutter punks. In the UK and Ireland especially, particularly in the 1990s, the term was used to refer to people who are members of a subculture related to the New Age travellers movement.\n\nCrusties are distinctive for their unkempt appearance. They are associated with anti-capitalism, road protests, squatting, and begging. Typical dress styles involve dreadlocks, piercings, tattoos and dirty clothing, which are generally second-hand or army surplus. Similar to anarcho-punk, most clothing is black in colour. Earth colours are also common. Denim jackets, hooded sweatshirts with sewn-on patches, vests covered in studs, spikes, and band patches are characteristic elements of the crust punk style of dress.\n\nJulian \"Leggo\" Kilsby of Deviated Instinct describes crust as \"a punk-y biker look, more akin to Mad Max. \"Mad Max 2\" is the crustiest film ever made!\" \n\nCrusties have also been described as being typically unemployed youth with no permanent home. Some are an urban version of the New Age Traveller and so may have relatively settled long-term homes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2632126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2632126", "title": "Equiveillance", "text": "Equiveillance\n\nEquiveillance is a state of equilibrium, or a desire to attain a state of equilibrium, between surveillance and sousveillance. It is sometimes confused with transparency. This balance (equilibrium) allows the individual to construct their own case from evidence they gather themselves, rather than merely having access to surveillance data that could possibly incriminate them.\n\nSousveillance, in addition to transparency, can be used to preserve the contextual integrity of surveillance data. For example, a lifelong capture of personal experience could provide \"best evidence\" over external surveillance data, to prevent the surveillance-only data from being taken out of context.\n\nEquiveillance represents a situation where all parties of a society or economy are empowered to be able to use the tools of accountability to make beneficial decisions. Humanity has always sought to establish authority relationships: the increasing trend to record information from our environment, and of ourselves creates the need to delineate the relationships between privacy, surveillance, and sousveillance.\n\nThe emphasis on ubiquitous computing is to be contrasted with wearable computing. As personal cell phones store more information and have the capacity to share it, wearable and mobile computing will make manifest the ability for an individual, or small group of individuals, to monitor larger institutional systems with the goal of developing systems of transparency and accountability. For just as large institutions, such as governments or corporations, store information about the buying habits of the public through an integrated surveillance highway that has a ubiquitous computing infrastructure, individuals can act as consumer activists though a system of inverse surveillance that is based upon a wearable computing infrastructure that assists in maximizing personal privacy and alerting one of information being recorded about the self. Such actions could lead to an equiveillant state, as power and respect are shared.\n\nPanoptic surveillance was described by Michel Foucault in the context of a prison in which prisoners were isolated from each other but visible at all times by guards. Surveillance tends to isolate individuals from one another while setting forth a one-way visibility to authority figures. This isolation leads to social fragmentation.\n\nSousveillance has a community-based origin, such as a personal electronic diary (or weblog), made public on the World Wide Web. Sousveillance tends to bring together individuals, by influencing a large city to function more like a small town: with the pitfalls of gossip, but also the benefits of a sense of community participation. There is a greater degree of responsibility in a sousveillance environment.\n\nUbiquitous computing (\"ubicomp\"), also known as pervasive computing (\"pervcomp\"), is the integration of computers with the environment. Ubiquitous computing tends to rely on cooperation of the immediate infrastructure in the environment, but also has a tendency to centralize information, and hence, centralize authority structures. It also creates segregation, and has implications for social rights such as education and healthcare. Individuals are sorted and classified within a ubiquitous computing environment, leading to a new form of segregation. Ubiquitous computing also places emphasis on copyright law and undermines creative environments due to the controlling tendencies of authority.\n\nWearable computing (\"wearcomp\") refers to portable, wearable computing technologies. Wearcomp doesn't require any special infrastructure in the environment, as the computer is self-contained and self-reliant. With sousveillant computing, it is possible for the focus of control to be more distributed rather than centralized.\n\nA free society is one which places emphasis on respect and the balance of power: in a democratic society, respect and power are shared and well distributed, whereas in a despotic community, respect and power are not shared and are restricted to the few. Increasingly, our society is confronted with the realization of a ubiquitous computing environment, with the infrastructure predicated upon sensor and surveillance systems to function despite efforts to stop such expansions. How we participate in sharing respect and power will converge with how our society conducts surveillance of its citizens, and how citizens conduct sousveillance. Equiveillance represents a harmonious balance that maximizes human freedom, individual rights as well as communal democracy. The field of personal cybernetics will converge with the fields of personal imaging and glogging (CyborgLogging), as individuals store and archive information for personal use and as a form of self-defense.\n\nTo have a society within which personal freedoms and justice are equally distributed, transparency is needed. Transparency increasingly will require dealing with the issues of ubiquitous computing and wearable computing, and maintaining a balance between surveillance and inverse surveillance while maximizing personal privacy.\n\nEquiveillance establishes a social balance between surveillance and sousveillance, as outlined in a general series of comparisons that is known in the published literature as the \"equiveillance table\". There are two kinds of situations that occur when this social balance does not exist: inequiveillance, in which there is a one-sided nature to surveillance (this is the most common situation), and disequiveillance, which is when the balance is not provably one-sided, but, rather, is unequal but not clearly in one or the other direction.\n\nEquiveillance represents a balance of the power relationships that surveillance and sousveillance touch upon. When there is an imbalance, social consequences can range from loss of privacy, to social reactions that in the aggregate lead to unrest and political instability. The idea of disequiveillance is described by Paul Virilio in his treatise on Dromology and the possibility of freedom loss as an accident of our modern world and how it relates to terrorism and war. In this context, the lack of equiveillance (disequiveillance) refers to the anthropological consequences of a world filled with continuous recording devices that encourage a despotic form of government with a tendency to intrude upon the lives of its citizens.\n\nThe evolving field of sousveillance, stems in part from recent research on the topic of surveillance and inverse-surveillance, shedding light on how media technology is changing our sense of privacy and human freedom. Privacy becomes increasingly a measure of freedom and its control central to personal autonomy.\n\nIncreasingly, remembering is influenced by both personal and public search engines, as computing is becoming increasingly dependent upon the human–computer interaction. The issue of being able to control the amount of personal information that escapes and is recorded in the many machines that make up evolving ubiquitous computing world stresses the importance of equiveillance. The impact of surveillance will be increasingly related to the impact of increasing computer storage space and data mining processing speed.\n\nA 2005 article by Margaret Papandreou entitled \"Is nothing Sacred\" also highlights the issue of disequiveillance and how the theft of personal communications with her son undermined her freedom of thought. Mrs Papandreou's personal computer was entered by hackers with malicious intent, with multiple emails, and personal information downloaded and eventually published in book form. The issue of freedom of the press, vs theft of personal property and electronic trespassing, developed into a subsequent legal action against the journalist and member of the Greek Parliament, Liana Kanelli. The issue of public vs. private space comes into the debate. The practice of spying as a political technique creates a flashback to how previous Greek politicians where undermined via covert eavesdropping and a subsequent outcome from the previous decades of the Greek Civil War. The complexity of this case becomes twofold when the person surveillanced is a concerned citizen, and not a politician. Furthermore, the issue of taking personal electronic communication out of context for political and financial gain creates the issue of disequiveillance. This can happen on a personal level, or on a larger social, or institutional level.\n\n\"The correspondence, which included e-mails, was published in late 2000 and early 2001, in the Nemesis magazine, which was run by journalist and MP Liana Kanelli. It was unclear how Kanelli laid hands on the letters, in which the US-born Papandreou advised the FM on his political career, urging him to make use of non-governmental organizations such as the Andreas Papandreou Foundation and the Andreas Papandreou Institute for Strategic and\nDevelopment Studies (ISTAME). Nemesis claimed Papandreou had been trying to influence Greek politics.\" \n\nThe foundations of human freedom also are rooted in the idea of social contract. Biased comments from the conclusion of documents obtained without a search warrant, and against the principles of legal procedure create an unfair forum for judging and condemnation and expose some of the problems of how electronic freedom can be misused towards a systemic persecution and misrepresentation. It also exposes how social instability can rapidly cause a society to evolve into a prison state. Order is maintained in systematic dissolvement of freedom towards a government that operates more like a prison rather than a body of persons made up of \"free individuals\" with an overemphasis of everyone watching everyone, with anyone becoming an informant for whatever side that may be competing for power.\n\nUnbalanced surveillance, and disequiveillance can rapidly deevolve society towards the en-masse phenomena such as racism, scapegoating and even mob reactions towards an individual. It is also of importance to realize that justice is not rooted in vengeance, but rather, the law.\n\nThe Margaret Papandreou case highlights the issue of victimization through use of the media as a form of propaganda. The social emphasis of a big brother society is rapidly transitioning Balkan nations via the prevalence of media support of such systems with an increasingly legal disregard for individual privacy.\n\nThe issue of privacy as part of freedom is in conflict with an absolutely transparent society where all things become recorded and available. The ability to mediate ones visibility increasingly intersects with the concept of wearable computing, as a form of sheltering the individual from a world filled with recorders and sensors. The ability of controlling ones personal information is increasingly part of how one is to maintain ones personal and free space. Hence protecting ones privacy also intersects with the concept of sousveillance.\n\n"}
{"id": "33030415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33030415", "title": "Forensic seismology", "text": "Forensic seismology\n\nForensic seismology is the forensic use of the techniques of seismology to detect and study distant phenomena, particularly explosions, including those of nuclear weapons.\n\nBecause of the efficiency with which seismic waves propagate through the Earth and the technical difficulties of decoupling explosions to diminish their seismic radiation, forensic seismology is a critical technique in the enforcement of bans on underground nuclear testing.\n\nIn addition to nuclear explosions, the signatures of many other kinds of explosions can also be detected and analyzed by forensic seismology, and even other phenomena such as ocean waves (the global microseism), the movement of icebergs across the sea floor or in collision with other icebergs, or explosions within submarines.\n\nOrganizations with expertise in forensic seismology include AWE Blacknest, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Sandia National Laboratory, and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.\n\nForensic Seismology is one of several other methods used by the global community to determine compliance with the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). A network of approximately 170 seismic stations, along with data generated from sources such as infrasound, hydroacoustics, and radionuclide detection, is used to identify and locate nuclear detonations. Forensic seismology is specifically used to locate nuclear detonations that may have occurred underneath the ground.\n\nSeismic stations record underground pressure waves and transmit this data for processing via secure communication links. There are many challenges involved with trying to differentiate a nuclear explosion from other natural and man-made phenomena, such as earthquakes, mining explosions, and construction. Nuclear explosions exceeding 150 kilotons generate pressure waves that primarily travel through the Earth's core and mantle. These types of explosions are straightforward to identify because the mixture of rock the signals pass through is fairly homogeneous and the signals generated are free from noise. Smaller nuclear explosions are more difficult to identify because pressure waves primarily travel through the Earth's upper mantle and crust, leading to signal distortion due to the heterogeneity of rocks at this depth.\n\nNations may also conduct clandestine underground tests that are not easily identifiable. One method of hiding an underground nuclear detonation is called decoupling. This involves detonating a nuclear warhead in an underground cavity in order to significantly muffle the amplitude of the subsequent underground pressure waves. Another proposed method of hiding nuclear detonations is called mine masking. This technique uses a larger explosion to mask a smaller nuclear explosion. The feasibility of mine masking has been called into question because seismic events large enough to mask a nuclear explosion are exceedingly rare and would draw suspicion. Smaller nuclear detonation yields may also be hard to detect because they produce readings similar to small earthquakes or other natural events.\n\nWhen seismic data is gathered, it has to be processed to produce meaningful information. Algorithms are used to isolate patterns, remove noise, and generate estimates. The development of efficient algorithms for nuclear detonation detection has led to many advancements in other fields such as kriging, an advanced method of interpolation used primarily in geostatistics. Algorithms are used to identify key characteristics of wave forms, such as peak-to-peak distance, amplitude, phase, P-wave amplitude, and S-wave amplitude. P-waves, or primary waves, are compression waves that propagate quickly through rock, and are generally the first waves to reach seismic stations. S-waves, or shear waves, arrive after P-waves. The ratio of P to S waves is one of several important values used to characterize seismic events. When a nuclear detonation has been identified, algorithms are used to estimate the detonation time, explosive yield and depth of burial.\n"}
{"id": "53266307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53266307", "title": "Francisco Mendigaña y Armendáriz", "text": "Francisco Mendigaña y Armendáriz\n\nFrancisco Mendigaña y Armendáriz (17 May 1674 – 30 October 1728) was a Spanish-born prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. Born in Navarre, he moved to New Granada as an adult, serving in leadership positions in the Archdiocese of Bogotá. Following Archbishop Francisco del Rincón's death in 1723, he became the diocesan administrator of the archdiocese, and was appointed Archbishop of Santo Domingo in April 1726. He remained in Bogotá until 1727 or 1728, when he left for his new position in Santo Domingo, but he died along the way in 1728.\n\nMendigaña y Armendáriz was born on 17 May 1674 in the village of Astráin, Navarre, Spain. His parents were Juan Mendigaña and Graciosa Armendáriz, and he had one sister, María Catharina. For secondary school, he attended the Colegio Mayor de San Ildefonso in Alcalá de Henares, Spain. In his youth, he once traveled to the Viceroyalty of New Granada, but returned to Spain.\n\nMendigaña returned to New Granada as an adult, this time permanently. He settled in Bogotá where he spent much of his priestly career, serving in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Santafé en Nueva Granada (now the Archdiocese of Bogotá). By 1717, at the time of the death of Archbishop Francisco Otero y Cossío, Mendigaña was serving as treasurer of the archdiocese.\n\nOn 28 June 1723, Archbishop Francisco del Rincón, died of illness. Antonio Claudio Álvarez de Quiñones was appointed Archbishop of Santafé en Nueva Granada on 29 January 1725 in a papal bull by Pope Benedict XIII. However, he did actually take reach the archdiocese until 1731, due to an extended illness and travels to Europe. Following Rincón's death, Mendigaña, who had been previously the archdeacon, became diocesan administrator of the archdiocese.\n\nOn 8 April 1726, Mendigaña was appointed Archbishop of Santo Domingo by Pope Benedict XIII. He remained in Bogotá in the meanwhile, continuing to serve as diocesan administrator while he awaited Álvarez de Quiñones' arrival so that he could consecrate him as bishop before he left for Santo Domingo. However, when Álvarez de Quiñones did not arrive, in 1727 or 1728 Mendigaña departed Bogotá for Santo Domingo, around two years after being appointed archbishop. His successor as diocesan administrator was Nicolás de Barasorda y Larrazabal. Meanwhile, while traveling to Santo Domingo, Mendigaña died along the way, on 30 October 1728 in the town of Machetá in what is now Colombia.\n"}
{"id": "7041155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7041155", "title": "Government Junta of Chile (1810)", "text": "Government Junta of Chile (1810)\n\nGovernment Assembly of the Kingdom of Chile (September 18, 1810 – July 4, 1811), also known as the First Government Junta, was the organization established to rule Chile following the deposition and imprisonment of King Ferdinand VII by Napoleon Bonaparte. It was the earliest step in the Chilean struggle for independence, and the anniversary of its establishment is celebrated as the national day of Chile.\n\nAt the start of 1808, the Captaincy General of Chile—one of the smallest and poorest colonies in the Spanish Empire—was under the administration of Luis Muñoz de Guzmán, an able, respected and well-liked Royal Governor. In May 1808 the overthrow of Charles IV and Ferdinand VII, their replacement by Joseph Bonaparte and the start of the Peninsular War plunged the empire into a state of agitation. In the meantime, Chile was facing its own internal political problems. Governor Guzmán had suddenly died on February of that year and the crown had not been able to appoint a new governor before the invasion. After a brief interim regency by Juan Rodríguez Ballesteros, and according to the succession law in place at the time, the position was laid claim to and assumed by the most senior military commander, who happened to be Brigadier Francisco García Carrasco. \n\nGarcía Carrasco took over the post of Governor of Chile in April and in August the news of the Napoleonic invasion of Spain and of the conformation of a Supreme Central Junta to govern the Empire in the absence of a legitimate king reached the country. In the meantime, Charlotte Joaquina, sister of Ferdinand and wife of the King of Portugal, who was living in Brazil, also made attempts to obtain the administration of the Spanish dominions in Latin America. Since her father and brother were being held prisoners in France, she regarded herself as the heiress of her captured family. Allegedly among her plans was to send armies to occupy Buenos Aires and northern Argentina and to style herself as \"Queen of La Plata\".\n\nBrigadier García Carrasco was a man of crude and authoritarian manners, who managed in a very short time to alienate the criollo elites under his command. Already in Chile, as in most of Latin America, there had been some independence agitation but very minimal and concentrated in the very ineffectual Conspiracy of the Tres Antonios back in 1781. The majority of the people were fervent royalists but were divided into two groups: those who favored the \"status quo\" and the divine right of Ferdinand VII (known as \"absolutists\") and those who wanted to proclaim Charlotte Joaquina as Queen (known as \"carlotistas\"). A third group was composed of those who proposed the replacement of the Spanish authorities with a local \"junta\" of notable citizens, which would conform a provisional government to rule in the absence of the king and an independent Spain (known as \"juntistas\").\n\nIn 1809 Governor García Carrasco himself was implicated in a flagrant case of corruption (the Scorpion scandal) that managed to destroy whatever remnants of moral authority he or his office had left. From that moment on the pressure for his removal began to build. In June 1810 news arrived from Buenos Aires that Napoleon Bonaparte's forces had conquered Andalusia and laid siege to Cádiz, the last redoubt against the French on Spanish soil. Moreover, the Supreme Central Junta, which had governed the Empire for the past two years, had abolished itself in favor of a Regency Council. García Carrasco, who was a supporter of the \"carlotist\" group, managed to magnify the political problems by taking arbitrary and harsh measures, such as the arrest and deportation to Lima without due process of well-known and socially prominent citizens under simple suspicions of having been sympathetic to the \"junta\" idea. Among those arrested were José Antonio de Rojas, Juan Antonio Ovalle and Bernardo de Vera y Pintado. \n\nThe autonomy movement also had, inspired by the May Revolution in Argentina, thoroughly propagated through the criollo elite. They resented the illegal arrests and, together with the news that Cádiz was all that was left of a free Spain, finally solidified in their opposition to the Governor. Brigadier García Carrasco was suspended from office and forced to resign on July 16, 1810, to be in turn replaced by the next most senior soldier, Mateo de Toro Zambrano Count of la Conquista, even though a legitimate Governor, Francisco Javier de Elío, had already been appointed by the Viceroy of Peru. \n\nCount Toro Zambrano was, by all standards, a very unorthodox selection. He was a very old man already (82 years old at the time) and moreover a \"criollo\" (someone born in the colonies) as opposed to a \"peninsular\" (someone born in Spain). Immediately after his appointment in July, the \"juntistas\" began to lobby him in order to obtain the formation of a junta. In August the Royal Appeals Court () took a public loyalty oath to the Regency Council in front of a massive audience, which put added pressure on the Governor to define himself. After vacillating for some time over which party to follow, Toro Zambrano finally agreed to hold an open \"Cabildo\" (city hall) meeting in Santiago to discuss the issue. The date was set for September 18, 1810 at 11 AM.\n\nFrom the very beginning the \"juntistas\" took the political initiative. They were able to place their members in charge of sending the invitations, thus manipulating the assistance lists to their own advantage. At the September 18th session, they grabbed center stage with shouts of \"¡Junta queremos! ¡junta queremos!\" (\"We want a junta! We want a junta\"). Count Toro Zambrano, faced with this very public show of force, acceded to their demands by depositing his ceremonial baton on top of the main table and saying \"Here is the baton, take it and rule\". The discussion ended with the establishment of the Government Junta of the Kingdom of Chile, also known as the \"First Junta\", which was organized with the same powers held by a Royal Governor. In the discussion triumphed the idea of a local independent government as opposed to the monarchist idea of submitting themselves to the control of the Regency Council. Nonetheless, this idea of \"independence\" must not be taken in the modern sense. This junta never intended to sever the relationship with the monarchy, but was only taking advantage of the possibility to assert local rule.\n\nTheir first measure was to take a formal loyalty oath to Ferdinand VII as legitimate King. Count Toro Zambrano was elected President, and the rest of the positions were distributed equally among all parties, but the real power was left in the hands of the secretary, Juan Martínez de Rozas. The Junta then proceeded to take some concrete measures that had been long-held aspirations of the colonials: it created a militia for the defense of the kingdom, decreed freedom of trade with all nations that were allied to Spain or neutrals, a unique tariff of 134% for all imports (with the exception of printing presses, books and guns which were liberated from all taxes) and in order to increase its representativity, ordered the convocatory of a National Congress. \n\nImmediately, political intrigue began amongst the ruling elite, with news of the political turbulence and wars of Europe all the while coming in. It was eventually decided that elections for the National Congress, to be composed of 42 representatives, would be held in 1811. By March of that year 36 representatives had already been elected in all major cities with the exception of Santiago and Valparaíso.\n\nAfter the natural death of the president, Mateo de Toro Zambrano on February 26, 1811, he was replaced by Juan Martínez de Rozas, due to the illness of the Vice President, Bishop José Martínez de Aldunate, (who was to die on April 8, 1811).\n\nThree political tendencies were starting to appear: the \"extremists\", the \"moderates\" and the \"royalists\". These groups were all decidedly against independence from Spain and differentiated themselves only in the degree of political autonomy that they sought. The \"moderates\" (), under the leadership of José Miguel Infante, were a majority, and wanted a very slow pace of reforms since they were afraid that once the King was back in power he would think that they were seeking independence and would roll-back all changes. The \"exaulted\" () were the second most important group and they advocated a larger degree of freedom from the Crown and a faster pace of reforms stopping just short of full independence. His leader was Juan Martínez de Rozas. The \"royalists\" were against any reform at all and for the maintenance of the \"status quo\".\n\nThe great political surprise up to that point had been the results from the other center of power, Concepción, in which royalists had defeated the supporters of Juan Martínez de Rozas. In the rest of Chile, the results were more or less equally divided: twelve pro-Rozas delegates, fourteen anti-Rozas and three royalists. So, the Santiago elections were the key to Rozas' desire to remain in power. This election was supposed to take place on April 10, but before they could be called the Figueroa mutiny broke out.\n\nOn April 1, the royalist colonel Tomás de Figueroa—considering the notion of elections to be too populist—led a revolt in Santiago. The revolt sputtered, and Figueroa was arrested and summarily executed. The mutiny was successful in that temporarily sabotaged the elections, which had to be delayed. Eventually, however, a National Congress was duly elected, and all 6 deputies from Santiago came from the \"moderate\" camp. Nonetheless, the mutiny also encouraged a radicalization of political postures: even though \"moderates\" advocating only greater autonomy of the elites from Spanish Imperial control—without a complete rupture—gained the majority of seats, a vocal minority was formed by \"excited\" revolutionaries who now wanted complete and instant independence from Spain. \n\nAs a consequence of the mutiny, Martinez de Rozas was replaced on April 2, 1811, by Fernando Márquez de la Plata. The Royal Appeals Court, a long-standing pillar of support of the Spanish Crown, was dissolved for its alleged \"complicity\" and the idea of full independence gained momentum for the first time. The Junta lasted until July 4, 1811, when it was replaced by the National Congress, and later by the Second Junta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7888820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7888820", "title": "Grandmothers for Peace", "text": "Grandmothers for Peace\n\nGrandmothers for Peace (a.k.a. Grandmothers for Peace International) is an organization started by Barbara Wiedner (1928-2001) in May 1982 in Sacramento, California in the USA, after the mass media became \"captivated by the image of a grandmother Barbara Wiedner risking jail through non-violent civil disobedience in an effort to save the planet from nuclear annihilation\".\nThe organisation includes over 40 chapters around the USA and chapters in Berlin, Germany, Romania, South Africa and the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 2006, the group participated in the Don't Attack Iran Coalition which opposed a military attack against Iran.\n"}
{"id": "2624800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2624800", "title": "Grawemeyer Award", "text": "Grawemeyer Award\n\nThe Grawemeyer Awards () are five awards given annually by the University of Louisville. The prizes are presented to individuals in the fields of education, ideas improving world order, music composition, religion, and psychology. The religion award is presented jointly by the University of Louisville and the Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary. Initially, the awards came with a bonus of US$150,000 each, making them among the most lucrative in their respective fields. This cash prize increased to $200,000 beginning in 2000. Beginning in 2011 the award amount dropped to $100,000 after the fund for the prize lost money due to a drop in the stock market.\n\nThe first award, for Music Composition, was presented in 1985. The award for Ideas Improving World Order was added in 1988 and Education in 1989. In 1990, a fourth award, Religion, was added as a joint prize between the university and the Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary. Psychology was added in 2000; the first award was given in 2001.\n\nSome of the most notable winners include former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev (world order); Academy Award-winning composer Tan Dun (music composition); German theologian Jürgen Moltmann (religion); Aaron Beck, considered the founder of cognitive therapy (psychology); and former Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and Princeton University President William G. Bowen and former Harvard University President Derek Bok (education).\n\nH. Charles Grawemeyer (1912–1993), industrialist, entrepreneur, astute investor and philanthropist, created the awards at the University of Louisville in 1984. An initial endowment of $9 million from the Grawemeyer Foundation funded the awards, which have drawn thousands of nominations from around the world.\n\nAlthough the University of Louisville graduate was a chemical engineer by schooling, Grawemeyer cherished the liberal arts and chose to honor powerful ideas in five fields in performing arts, the humanities, and the social sciences.\n\nGrawemeyer distinguished the awards by honoring ideas rather than lifelong or publicized personal achievement. He also insisted that the selection process for each of the five awards—though dominated by professionals-include one step involving a lay committee knowledgeable in each field. As Grawemeyer saw it, great ideas should be understandable to someone with general knowledge and not be the private treasure of academics.\n\n"}
{"id": "3476243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3476243", "title": "Hassan bin Attash", "text": "Hassan bin Attash\n\nHassan Mohammed Ali bin Attash (, \"Ḥasan Muḥammad ʿAlī bin 'Aṭṭash\") is a citizen of Saudi Arabia, held in the United States Guantanamo Bay detainment camps, in Cuba.\nJoint Task Force Guantanamo counter-terrorism analysts estimate that bin Attash was born in 1985, in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.\n\nAs of July 11, 2012, Hassan Mohammed Ali bin Attash has been held at Guantanamo for seven years ten months.\n\nAttash was just sixteen or seventeen when he was captured.\nHassin is the brother of Waleed Mohammed bin Attash, who has also been described as an inmate in the CIA's network of secret prisons. \nHassin, too, claims he spent time in the other prisons, including \"the dark prison\", prior to being detained in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.\n\nThe circumstances of Hassan bin Attash have triggered the attention of several human rights organizations, including Amnesty International, Reprieve and Human Rights Watch.\nAccording to their accounts Hassan bin Attash was captured on September 10, 2002, spent time in the dark prison, spent sixteen months in Jordan, where he was hung upside down, and beaten on the soles of his feet, which were then immersed in salt water. They assert that he underwent this kind of questioning until he was willing to sign anything. They claim that he wasn't interrogated about anything he himself had done, but rather about the activity of his older brother. They assert that his 70-year-old father underwent similar questioning. Bin Attash was flown to Guantanamo in March 2003.\n\nThe \"Boston Globe\" quoted Guantanamo spokesmen Lieutenant Commander Chito Peppler, who insisted, \"\"US policy requires all detainees to be treated humanely,\"\"\n\nPeppler repeated the assertion that none of the captive's assertions of abuse were credible because al Qaeda trained operatives to lie about abuse.\n\nHuman Rights group Reprieve reports that flight records show two captives named\nAl-Sharqawi and Hassan bin Attash were flown from Kabul in September 2002.\nThe two men were flown aboard N379P, a plane suspected to be part of the CIA's ghost fleet.\nFlight records showed that the plane originally departed from Diego Garcia, stopped in Morocco, Portugal, then Kabul before landing in Guantanamo Bay.\n\nOriginally the Bush Presidency asserted that captives apprehended in the \"war on terror\" were not covered by the Geneva Conventions, and could be held indefinitely, without charge, and without an open and transparent review of the justifications for their detention.\nIn 2004 the United States Supreme Court ruled, in Rasul v. Bush, that Guantanamo captives were entitled to being informed of the allegations justifying their detention, and were entitled to try to refute them.\n\nFollowing the Supreme Court's ruling the Department of Defense set up the Office for the Administrative Review of Detained Enemy Combatants.\n\nScholars at the Brookings Institution, led by Benjamin Wittes, listed the captives still held in Guantanamo in December 2008, according to whether their detention was justified by certain common allegations:\n\n\nA writ of habeas corpus was filed on behalf of Bin Attash.\n\nOn January 21, 2009, the day he was inaugurated, United States President Barack Obama issued three Executive orders related to the detention of individuals in Guantanamo.\nHe put in place a new review system composed of officials from six departments, where the OARDEC reviews were conducted entirely by the Department of Defense. When it reported back, a year later, the Joint Review Task Force classified some individuals as too dangerous to be transferred from Guantanamo, even though there was no evidence to justify laying charges against them. On April 9, 2013, that document was made public after a Freedom of Information Act request.\nHassan bin Attash was one of the 71 individuals deemed too innocent to charge, but too dangerous to release.\nObama said those deemed too innocent to charge, but too dangerous to release would start to receive reviews from a Periodic Review Board.\n\nThe first review wasn't convened until November 20, 2013. , 29 individuals had reviews, but Hassan bin Attash wasn't one of them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24297859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24297859", "title": "Highways Agency CCTV", "text": "Highways Agency CCTV\n\nThe current UK Highways Agency CCTV system is called 2nd Generation CCTV. This CCTV system has been produced from a set of specification developed by the Highways Agency, to allow it to effectively monitor traffic on England motorways and trunk roads. The network currently includes over 1500 cameras operated from 7 regional control centres across England.\n\nThe Highways Agency’s original CCTV system or Highways Agency Surveillance CCTV system was used primarily to assist the police with the management of traffic on motorway and trunk roads. It was typically formed out of a number of smaller networks working in isolation. Each of these small networks consisted of between 10 and 100 cameras that provided images to a single control room and had little provision for third parties. These networks often required a specific manufacturer’s camera, restricting the Highways Agency’s control over technology and cost.\n\nAs the use of CCTV became more important third parties (e.g. fire service, motoring organisations, radio stations) began to require controlled access to road images and the business case for a more nationally controlled network became apparent. Therefore, to maximise control over its own assets the Highways Agency decided to develop its own CCTV protocols and specifications called 2nd Generation CCTV.\n\nAround the world countries that have mature Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) for traffic monitoring have implemented similar protocols, such as in the United States with National Transportation Communication for ITS Protocol (NTCIP). However, in countries where traffic monitoring CCTV is in its infancy the use of individual manufacture CCTV protocols (e.g. Pelco D) is more wide spread.\n\nThe second-generation CCTV system uses a range of protocols and standards currently in general use in other CCTV and electrical communication systems. These include CORBA middleware technology to interface between legacy analogue CCTV systems and CCTV components developed by different organisations, and TCP/IP and UDP for network communications.\n\nThese cameras have many capabilities:\n\n\nThe 2nd Generation CCTV system removed the short-comings of the original CCTV system and was designed to meet the Highways Agency’s future needs, by:\n"}
{"id": "8860393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8860393", "title": "Holy Synod of the Coptic Orthodox Church", "text": "Holy Synod of the Coptic Orthodox Church\n\nThe Holy Synod of the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria is the highest Orthodox authority in the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria. It formulates the rules and regulations regarding matters of the church's organisation and faith.\n\nThe synod is chaired by the Patriarch of Alexandria and the members are the church's metropolitan archbishops, metropolitan bishops, diocesan bishops, patriarchal exarchs, missionary Bishops, auxiliary bishops, suffragan bishops, assistant bishops, chorbishops and the patriarchal vicars of the Church of Alexandria.\n\nAccording to Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria traditions, the Pope, being the Bishop of Alexandria and being the senior and elder bishop and the metropolitan archbishop of the province and primate of all Egypt, is the head of the Holy Synod as a first among equals. The most senior position after the Pope was that of the Metropolitan Archbishop of Pentapolis, but since it ceased to be a major archiepiscopal metropolis in the days of Pope John VI it has been held as a titular see attached to another metropolis.\n\nThere is a special status of seniority of honor and precedence for the Metropolitan Archbishop of the Holy and Great City of Our Lord, Jerusalem, Holy Zion, Archbishop of the Holy Archdiocese of Jerusalem, All Palestine, Philadelphia of Jordan and All the Near East.\n\nThis great archdiocesan Metropolis is technically outside the Egyptian Province and is not considered to be within the jurisdiction of the Pope of Alexandria, but is one of the possessions of the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria. It was created by Pope Cyril III (1235-1243) in the thirteenth Century, which, at that time, had caused a dispute between the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria and the Syriac Orthodox Church of Antioch. This was a very rare incident between the two sister churches as in general their relationship is one of the strongest between any two sister churches.\n\nAccording to the Alexandrine tradition, the rank of metropolitan bishop is granted by the Pope to the diocesan bishops under his jurisdiction on a personal status (In Personam) and not due to the size or importance of the bishop's eparchy; however, the rank of Metropolitan Archbishop is granted to those whose Archdioceses have historical importance and had or have more than one Suffragan Diocese within their territorial jurisdictions.\n\nThe Coptic Orthodox Metropolitan Archbishop of Jerusalem is the only Coptic Orthodox Hierarch who is consecrated as a Metropolitan Archbishop without being consecrated first as a bishop and later elevated to Metropolitan Archbishop, as is the norm in all episcopal consecration according to the tradition of the Church of Alexandria; it is done concurrently on the same occasion. This has been the case since Cyril III consecrated Metropolitan Archbishop Basilius as the first Coptic Orthodox Metropolitan Archbishop of Jerusalem and All the Near East.\n\nUsually the chosen Hieromonk is consecrated first as a Diocesan Bishop, then with time, he could be awarded the higher dignity of Metropolitan Bishop. Sometimes the nominated Diocesan Bishop is already an Assistant Bishop, Auxiliary Bishop or General Bishop, in which case he is only enthroned as the bishop of that Diocese.\n\nCurrently, and because the seniority of the members of the Holy Synod is decided according to the seniority of the consecretion/elevation date of the ecclesiastical ranks: First come the Metropolitan Archbishops and Metropolitan Bishops, followed by the Diocesan Bishops then the Bishops Exarchs of the Throne, then the Suffragan Bishops, then the Auxiliary Bishops, then the General Bishops and finally the Chorbishops but also according to the date of consecration within each rank.\n\nAccordingly, the most senior position after the Pope is the oldest consecrated Metropolitan Archbishop, who was Metropolitan Pachomios, the Metropolitan Archbishop of the Holy Metropolis of Damanhur (Hermopolis Parva) and Beheira (Consecrated in 1990).\n\nIn spite of the ancient Alexandrine tradition, the most senior Hierarch, after the Senior Hierarch of Pentapolis, is the Hierarch of the Metropolis of (Lycopolis), (Hieracon) and (Apollonopolis Parva), which is Asyut; but since the great and ancient Titular Metropolis of Pentapolis in (Cyrenaica), that comprises the Holy Suffragan Dioceses of (Cyrene), (Appollonia), (Ptolemais), (Berenice) and (Arsinoe), is currently a Titular title, incorporated within the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Archbishop of the Holy Metropolis of Beheira (Hermopolis Parva), (Buto), (Naucratis), Mariout (Mareotis), Marsa Matruh (Paraetonium), (Apis); who is also the Titular Archbishop and Patriarchal Exarch of the Ancient and Holy Titular Archdiocese of Libya, comprising the Titular Suffragan Dioceses of (Livis, Marmarica, Darnis, Neapolis and Tripolitania); of the Ancient and Holy (Exarchate of Africa) in Tunisia, comprising the Titular and Holy Suffragan Dioceses of (Mauretania Tingitana) and (Mauretania Caesariensis) and of the Ancient and Holy Titular Metropolis of (Numedia) in Algeria and Morocco that includes the Titular and Holy Suffragan Dioceses of (Leptis Parva) and of (Hadramentum). Accordingly, that honor goes to the Hierarch of the Metropolis of (Lycopolis), (Hieracon) and (Apollonopolis Parva) apart from the fact of the current adoption of the seniority of the date of consecration of the later Hierarch.\n\nThe most senior bishop in consecration will become the Locum tenens in case of the death of the Pope and until the election of the new Pope, and he will be the one who enthrones the newly elected Pope along with all the Hierarchs, who are members of the Holy Synod.\nThis seniority ranking system does not diminish the importance and the greatness of the Archdiocese of Jerusalem and All the Near East, since its inclusion under the jurisdiction of the Apostolic Church of Alexandria in early medieval times. It is to be noted that the archiepiscopal status of this great Metropolis is also granted due to the Holy Apostolic Throne that it represents, being the Apostolic and Patriarchal Throne of Jerusalem, although its Metropolitan Archbishop does not claim that title and is under the jurisdiction of the Holy Apostolic Throne of Alexandria.\n\nA Gallery of the Coptic Holy Synod of Egypt (All Coptic Bishops) (external link)\n\nA Gallery of the Members of the Holy Synod of the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria In order of date of consecration in Arabic and English (external link)\n\nChairman of The Synod\n1) Pope Tawadros II of Alexandria\n\n\n2) Antonios, Most Senior and Elder Metropolitan Archbishop of the Holy and Great City of Our Lord, Jerusalem (Holy Zion); Archbishop of the Holy and Ancient Archdiocese of Jerusalem, all Palestine and the Near East comprising:\n\n3) Pachomios, Most Senior and Elder Metropolitan Archbishop of the Holy Metropolis of Damanhur (Hermopolis Parva) and Beheira that comprises: \nBeing also:\nThe Titular Archbishop and Patriarchal Exarch of :\n\n4) Athanasios, Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Marseille and Primate of the Holy Metropolis of Toulon and of all France, that is The French Coptic Orthodox Church.\n\n5) Hedra, Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Aswan (Syene). Being also Titular Bishop of the following:\n\n\nBeing also the Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Hedra the Anchorite(known also as the Monastery of Saint Simeon) and of the Monastery of Saint Pachomius the Cenobite in Upper Egypt.\n\n6) Wissa (Besa), Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of el-Balyana (Abydos), comprising:\n\n\n7) Pavnotios, Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Samalut and Taha El Aameda.\n\n8) Benyamin (Benjamin), Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Al Minufiyah (Prosopolis).\n\n9) Tadros (Theodoros), Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Port Said (Pelusium).\nBeing also the Titular Bishop of:\n\n\n10) Paula (Paul), Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Tanta.\n\n11) Markos (Mark), Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Shubra el-Kheima.\n\n12) Pissada, Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Akhmim (Panopolis), Saqualta and the Holy Monasteries of Mount Akhmim in Upper Egypt.\n\n13) Ashe’yia (Isaiah), Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Tahta, Juhayna and Gabalein (Aphroditopolis & Hispis (Pathyris))\n\n14) Andrawis (Andrew), Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Abutig, Sedfa and el Ghanayem. \n\n15) Abram, Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Faiyum. Being also the Abbot of the Monastery of Archangel Gabriel in the Naqloun Mountain, Central Egypt. \n\n16) Serapion, Metropolitan Bishop of the Holy Metropolis of Los Angeles, all Southern California and Hawaii, USA. Being also the Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Anthony the Great in Barstow, California, United States.\n\n17) Ammonios (Amon), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Luxor (Diospolis Magna), comprising the following: \n\n\nBeing also Titular Bishop of:\n\n\n(Currently relieved from Eparchial Shepherding).\n\n18) Kyrillos (Cyril), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Nag Hammâdi (Khenoboskion) and Abu Tesht.\n\n19) Missael, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Birmingham, all of the Midlands and its affiliated regions, United Kingdom.\n\n20) Demetrios, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Mallawi, comprising the following: \n\n\nBeing also the Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Fana, Upper Egypt.\n\n21) Lukas (Luke), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Abnub and el Fateh and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Mina in Abnub\n\n22) Bakhoum (Pachomius), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Sohag (Athribis), comprising the following:\n\n\n23) Barsoum (Parsoma), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Dairut and Sanabou.\n\n24) Picenti (Pisentios), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Helwan and Al Maasara (Tura).\n\n25) Aghapios, Diocesan Bishop the Holy Diocese of Deir Mawas and Delga.\n\n26) Thomas, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of el-Qusiya (Qis) and Meir.\n\n27) Matthias, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of El-Mahalla El-Kubra and Samanoud (Sebennytos). (Currently relieved from Eparchial Shepherding)\n\n28) Cheroubim (Cherubim), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Qena, comprising the Holy Suffragan Diocese of Qift (Coptos) and its jurisdictions.\n\n29) Pimen, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Naqada (Ombos), comprising the Holy Suffragan Diocese of Qus (Apollonopolis Parva).\n\n30) Takla (Thekla), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Dishna, comprising the Holy Suffragan Diocese of Dendera (Tentyris) and its jurisdictions.\n\n31) Daniel, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Maadi & El-Basateen.\n\n32) Theophilos, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Hurghada, Kosseir, & all the Red Sea\nBeing also Titular Bishop of: \n\n\n33) Maximos, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Banha (Leontopolis), comprising the Holy Suffragan Diocese of Quouwaysena (Athribis).\n\n34) Youssef (Joseph), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Southern United States. Being also the Abbot of the Monastery of the Most Holy Virgin Mary and Saint Moses the Strong in Corpus Christi, Texas, USA and the Abbot of the Convent of the Most Holy Virgin Mary and Saint Demiana in Dawsonville, Georgia, USA\n\n35) Youannes (John), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Asyut (Lycopolis), comprising: \n\n\n36) Sarapamon (Serapis Amon), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Atbara, Omdurman and all the North of the Sudan; comprising the Holy Suffragan Diocese of Port Sudan.\nBeing also Titular Bishop of:\n\n\n37) Antony, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Ireland, Scotland and of all North East England, United Kingdom. Being also the Abbot of the Monastery of St. Athanasius the Apostolic, United Kingdom.\n\n38) Barnaba (Barnabas), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Torino and Southern Italy.\n\n39) Damian, Diocesan Bishop for the Holy Diocese of Höxter, Brenkhausen and affiliate jurisdictions. Being also the Abbot of the Monastery of St. Mary & St. Maurice in Höxter, Germany\n\n40) Suriel, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Melbourne, Victoria (Australia), Tasmania, Australian Capital Territory, South Australia, Western Australia, New Zealand and Patriarchal Exarch of all Oceania. Being also the Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Anthony the Great in Heathcote, Victoria (Australia).\n\n41) Gabriel, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Beni Suef (Herakleopolis Magna) comprising the Holy Suffragan Diocese of El-Bahnasa (Oxyrhynchus).\nBeing also Titular Bishop of:\n\n\n42) Georgios (George), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Matai (Acanthus) and its jurisdictions.\n\n43) Stephanos (Stephen), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Beba, comprising the Holy Suffragan Diocese of Samasta and El Fashn.\n\n44) Timotheos (Timothy), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Zaqaziq (Bubastis), comprising the Holy Suffragan Diocese of Menya Al Qamh (Sais). Being also Titular Bishop of the Titular and Holy Suffragan Dioceses of (Busiris).\n\n45) David, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of New York and New England and all Northeastern states of the United States of America.\n\n46) Angaelos, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of London, South of England & South Wales (United Kingdom)\n\n47) Gabriel, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Vienna and all Austria. Being also Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Anthony the Great in Obersiebenbrunn.\n\n48) Ilia (Elijah), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Khartoum and all the South of the Sudan; being also Titular Bishop of the Titular and Holy Suffragan Diocese of (Soba in Alodia).\n\n49) Seraphim, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Ismailia (Heroonopolis) and Titular Bishop of the Titular and Holy Suffragan Diocese of (Pithom).\n\n50) Apollo, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of El-Tor (Raithu) and all South Sinai, comprising the Holy Suffragan Diocese of Sharm El Sheikh.\n\n51) Athanasios, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Beni Mazar.\n\n52) Aghathon, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Maghagha, comprising the Holy Suffragan Diocese of El Idwa.\n53) Kosman (Cosmas), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of El Arish (Rhinocorura) and all North Sinai, comprising the following:\n\n\n54) Daniel, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Sydney, New South Wales, Queensland, Northern Territory, Thailand, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan and Patriarchal Exarch of all East Asia.\n\n55) Dawood (David), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Mansoura (Leontopolis) and Titular Bishop of the Titular and Holy Suffragan Diocese of (Mendes). Being also Abbot of the Monastery of Saint George at Meit Demsis, Lower Egypt.\n\n56) Apakir (Apa Cyrrhus), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Stockholm and of all Scandinavia.\n\n57) Aghathon, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of São Paulo and of all Brazil.\n\n58) Youssef (Joseph), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Santa Cruz and of all Bolivia.\n\n59) Mercurios (Mercure), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Girga (Thinis) & affiliate jurisdictions.\n\n60) Petros (Peter), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Shebin El Quanater, Toukh and El Khanka.\n\n61) Theodosios, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Central Giza (Memphis) & affiliate jurisdictions.\n\n62) Mina (Menas), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Mississauga, Vancouver & all Western Canada.\n\n63) Salib (Pistavros), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Meit Ghamr & affiliate jurisdictions.\n\n64) Maqar (Makarios), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Al Sharqiyah (Bubastis) and 10th of Ramadan City, being also the Titular Bishop of the Titular and Holy Suffragan Dioceses of (Thmuis), (Fakus) and of (Tanis).\n\n65) Samuel, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Tamouh, El-Badrashein, El Hawamdiah & affiliate jurisdictions.\n\n66) Dometius, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of October City, Ausim, Ashmoon & affiliate jurisdictions.\n\n67) Youhanna (John), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Imbaba, El-Warraq & affiliate jurisdictions.\n\n68) Zosima (Zosimos), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Atfih (Aphroditopolis), El-Saff & affiliate jurisdictions.\n\n69) Arsany (Arsanios), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Amsterdam and all the Netherlands & affiliate jurisdictions.\n\n70) Pavlos (Paul), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Athens, all Greece and Cyprus\n\n71) Luka (Luke), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Geneva (Switzerland) and Southern France\n\n72) Bemwa (Pamouh), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Suez (Clysma).\n\n73) Isshak (Isaac), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Tima (Antaeopolis).\n\n74) Markos (Mark), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Damietta (Thamiates) Being also the Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Demiana.\n\n75) Karas (Cyrrhus), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Pennsylvania & its Affiliated Regions (Maryland, Delaware & West Virginia) (USA)\n\n76) Marc (Mark), Diocesan Bishop of Paris and all Northern France\n\n77) Peter, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of North Carolina, South Carolina & Kentucky (USA)\n\n78) Antonio, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Milano, Northern Italy. Being also the Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Shenouda the Archimandrite in Milano\n\n79) Seraphim, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Ohio, Michigan & Indiana (USA)\n\n80) Giovanni, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Central Europe (Hungary, Czech Republic, Poland, Romania & Slovenia)\n\n81) Arsanius, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of El Wady El-Gedid (New Valley).\n\n82) Michael, Suffragan Bishop of the Holy Suffragan Diocese of Alexandria and all Virginia, USA; suffragan to the Archdiocese of North America, which is currently under Patriarchal jurisdiction.\n\n83) Issak (Issac), Auxiliary Bishop for the Holy Metropolis of Beheira (Hermopolis Parva), auxiliary to Metropolitan Pachomios.\n\n84) Macarios, Auxiliary Bishop for the Holy Metropolis of Minya, Abu Qirqas, Beni Hasan, (Akoris) and (Hebenu).\n\n85) Abraham, Auxiliary Bishop for the Holy Metropolis of Los Angeles, auxiliary to Metropolitan Serapion.\n\n86) Kyrillos, Auxiliary Bishop for the Holy Metropolis of Los Angeles, auxiliary to Metropolitan Serapion.\n\n87) Basil, Auxiliary Bishop for the Holy Diocese of Southern United States, auxiliary to Bishop Youssef\n\n88) Gregory, Auxiliary Bishop for the Holy Diocese of Southern United States, auxiliary to Bishop Youssef\n\n89) Raphael, Assistant Bishop for the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of Central Cairo (Down Town) in the Holy Archdiocese of Cairo (Arcadia Ægypti), assistant to the Pope and General Secretary of the Holy Synod.\n\n90) Maximos, Assistant Bishop for the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of Dar El Salam (Irinipolis) in the Holy Archdiocese of Cairo (Arcadia Ægypti), assistant to the Pope.\n\n91) Martyros, Assistant Bishop for the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of East of the Railroad Region in the Holy Archdiocese of Cairo (Arcadia Ægypti), assistant to the Pope.\n\n92) Youlyous (Julius), Assistant Bishop for the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of Old Cairo (Babylon), Manial and Fum El Khalig in the Holy Archdiocese of Cairo (Arcadia Ægypti), assistant to the Pope and Administrator of the Bishopric of Social Services\n\n93) Abanoub (Abba Noub), Assistant Bishop for the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of Mokattam in the Holy Archdiocese of Cairo (Arcadia Ægypti), assistant to the Pope.\n\n94) Makary (Makarios), Assistant Bishop for the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of Southern Shoubra in the Holy Archdiocese of Cairo (Arcadia Ægypti), assistant to the Pope.\n\n95) Angelos, Assistant Bishop for the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of Northern Shoubra in the Holy Archdiocese of Cairo (Arcadia Ægypti), assistant to the Pope.\n\n96) Pavly (Paul), Assistant Bishop for the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of El-Montazah District in the Holy Archdiocese of Alexandria (Rhakotis), assistant to the Pope.\n\n97) Klemandos (Clement), Assistant Bishop for the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of El-Hagana & Almaza in the Holy Archdiocese of Cairo (Arcadia Ægypti), assistant to the Pope.\n\n98) Ilarion (Hilarion), Assistant Bishop for the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of the Western District in the Holy Archdiocese of Alexandria (Rhakotis), assistant to the Pope.\n\n99) Hermina (Hermion), Assistant Bishop for the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of the Central & Eastern Districts in the Holy Archdiocese of Alexandria (Rhakotis), assistant to the Pope.\n\n100) Mikhail (Michael), Assistant Bishop of the Patriarchal Suffragan Holy Diocese of Hadayek El-Kobba, El-Wailly & Mansheyat El-Sadr in the Holy Archdiocese of Cairo (Arcadia Ægypti), assistant to the Pope\n\n101) Antonios Markos (Anthony Mark), Patriarchal Exarch, in the capacity of a Missionary Bishop for the Exarchate of African Affairs in West and South Africa.\n\n102) Macarios, Patriarchal Exarch of the Eritrean Congregation in the USA. Member of the Eritrean Holy Synod.\n\n103) Pavlos (Paul), Patriarchal Exarch, in the capacity of a Missionary Bishop for the Exarchate of Evangelism & Mission in East and Central Africa.\n\n104) Youssab (Joseph), Patriarchal Vicar for the Holy Diocese of Luxor (Diospolis Magna), assistant to the Pope.\n\n105) Karas (Cyrrhus), Patriarchal Vicar for the Holy Diocese of El-Mahalla El-Kubra and Samanoud (Sebennytos), assistant to the Pope.\n\n106) Youakim (Joachim), Patriarchal Vicar for the Holy Diocese of Esna (Latopolis) and Armant (Hermonthis), assistant to the Pope.\n\n107) Sarapamon (Serapis Amon), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Pishoy in Scetes, Lower Egypt.\n\n108) Mattaos (Matthew), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of the Most Holy Virgin Mary, known as the Syrian Monastery, in Scetes, Lower Egypt.\n\n109) Basilios (Basil), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Samuel the Confessor, in El Qualamon Mountain, Upper Egypt.\n\n110) Yustos (Justus), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Anthony the Great, in the Eastern Desert.\n\n111) Isithoros (Isidore), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of the Most Holy Virgin Mary, known as the Paromeos (Roman) Monastery, in Scetes, Lower Egypt.\n\n112) Selwanos (Silvanos), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Pachomios the Cenobite in Edfu, Upper Egypt.\n\n113) Kyrillos (Cyril), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Mina, in the Desert of Mariut (Mareotis), Lower Egypt.\n\n114) Mina (Menas), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint George in El Khatatba, Central Egypt.\n\n115) Daniel, Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Paul the Anchorite, in the Eastern Desert.\n\n116) Daniel, Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of St. Shenouda the Archimandrite, in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.\n\n117) Oulogios (Evlogios), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Shenouda the Archimandrite in Sohag, Upper Egypt.\n\n118) Mikhail (Michael), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Anthony the Great in Kroeffelbach, Germany.\n\n119) Pigol, Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of the Most Holy Virgin Mary, known as Al Muharraq Monastery, Upper Egypt\n\n120) Ruweis, General Bishop and Patriarchal Emissary at large.\n\n121) Youhanna (John), General Bishop and Patriarchal Emissary at large.\n\n122) Moussa (Moses), General Bishop and Administrator for the Bishopric of Youth Affairs.\n123) Dioscoros, General Bishop and Administrator of the Patriarchal Print Shop.\n\n124) Botros (Peter), General Bishop for the Patriarchal Media (Head of Aghapy TV Channel).\n\n125) Armiah (Jeremiah), General Bishop and Chief of the Coptic Orthodox Cultural Center.\n\n126) Saweros (Severus), General Bishop and Administrator for New Monasteries\n\n127) Priest Abraam Emil, Grand Economos and Patriarchal Vicar in Alexandria.\n\n128) Hegumen Sergios Sergios, Administrative Patriarchal Vicar in Cairo.\n\n1) (Vacant), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint George in El Rozaiquat, Central Egypt.\n\n2) (Vacant), Suffragan Bishop of the Holy Suffragan Diocese of Eastern Canada, Canada; which is currently under Patriarchal jurisdiction.\n\n3) (Vacant), Patriarchal Exarch in Cedar Grove, New Jersey for the Archdiocese of North America.\n\n4) (Vacant), Patriarchal Exarch of the Eritrean Congregation in the UK and Member of the Eritrean Holy Synod. (Vacant after the departure of Bishop Markos on April 29, 2017)\n\n5) (Vacant), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Manfalut. (Vacant after the departure of Bishop Antonious on March 18, 2018)\n\n6) (Vacant), Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Macarius the Great in Scetes, Lower Egypt. (Vacant after the martyrdom of Bishop Epiphanios on July 29, 2018)\n\n7) (Vacant), Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Minya and Abu Quirqas. (Vacant after the departure of H.E. Metropolitan Arsenious on August 11, 2018)\n\nPontiff and Supreme Hierarch of the Holy Orthodox & Apostolic Throne of Alexandria. He is considered First among equals (primus inter pares) on his Apostolic Throne. He presides over the Holy Synod of the Coptic Orthodox Patriarchate of Alexandria and over all Patriarchal Institutions. He is also the Head of the Catechetical School of Alexandria.\n\nHe consecrates, crowns and enthrones Patriarchs and Catholicoi (within his Dominion/Jurisdiction in Africa). He consecrates and crowns Archbishops, Metropolitans and Bishops, and delegates several Metropolitans and Bishops to enthrone them. He ordains Archpriests, Priests, Archdeacons, Deacons, Sub-deacons, all minor Orders, all ranks of Monastics, elevates Bishops to the Metropolitan, the Archiepiscopal or the Patriarchal Dignity. He consecrates the Holy Myron. He also bestows the honor of the Great Schema upon the Monastics who have achieved the highest degree of asceticism in Monastic life or upon those who are to be ordained to the Episcopal Rank.\n\nHe anoints, crowns and enthrones Orthodox Emperors and Empresses, Orthodox Kings and Queens. He also consecrates all Church buildings, altars, baptisteries, holy vessels and vestments. He has the First and the Highest Rank of the Episcopal Dignity of the Holy Apostolic Throne of Alexandria. He is the Primate of the second highest Apostolic Throne, in accordance with the Canon Laws of the Ecumenical Council of Nicea (325 AD), after Imperial Rome. The Throne of Alexandria later became third in rank, after the Imperial Cities of Rome and Constantinople, New Rome, in accordance with the Canon Laws of the Ecumenical Council of Constantinople (381AD).\n\nAdministrative Title of the Episcopal Rank for a large Diocese or Eparchy, bestowed upon a Diocesan Bishop by the Patriarch, in recognition for his long service in his Diocese/Eparchy. It can also be granted due to the extended size of a Diocese or an Eparchy (by becoming an Archdiocese or an Archeparchy,) thus forming or is considered as an Ecclesiastical province, which requires its Prelate to be elevated to the Metropolitan /Archiepiscopal Dignity.\n\nThe higher Title of Metropolitan Bishop/Metropolitan Archbishop is granted to the Bishop of the Metropolis. He may oversee several Suffragan Bishops (to each his own Diocese) within his province, Auxiliary Bishops (Assistant to the Hierarch) and/or Chori-Episcopoi, under his jurisdiction.\n\nThe title of Metropolitan Archbishop is granted to the Hierarch of the Metropolis that has a historical dignity within the Throne, and whose Bishop ought to have the honorary dignity of a Metropolitan Archbishop, like Metropolitan Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Jerusalem, All Palestine and Philadelphia of Jordan and Patriarchal Exarch of all the Near East and the Metropolitan Archbishop and Patriarchal Exarch of the Ancient Archdiocese of Pentapolis in (Cyrenaica), comprising the Suffragan Dioceses of: (Cyrene), (Appollonia),(Ptolemais), (Berenice) and (Arsinoe), who is also the Metropolitan Archbishop and Patriarchal Exarch of the Ancient Archdiocese of Libya, comprising the Suffragan Dioceses of: (Livis, Marmarica, Darnis and Tripolitania).\n\nHe is called Metropolitan in his own Diocesan City, the Metropolis and is called Archbishop in all the other Suffragan Dioceses, whose Suffragan Bishops are under his jurisdiction. Whereas, the Metropolitan Bishop is called Metropolitan in his own Diocesan City with its jurisdictions, which as a whole is considered a Metropolis, according to the jurisdictional subdivision of the Church, and he may have Assistant Bishops or Auxiliary Bishops under his jurisdiction, but does not have Suffragan Dioceses, headed by Suffragan Bishops, under his jurisdiction.\nHe assists the Patriarch and other Hierarchs in consecrating, crowning and enthroning other Patriarchs, Catholicoi, Archbishops, Metropolitans and Bishops. He ordains Archpriests, Priests, Archdeacons, Deacons, Sub-deacons and all minor orders to serve the parishes in his Diocese or Eparchy. He bestows the honor of the Great Schema upon the Monastics who have achieved the highest degree of Monastic life or upon those who are to be ordained to the Episcopal Rank and ordain novices to the monastic rank for the monasteries under his jurisdiction. He assists the Patriarch in consecrating the Holy Myron. He also consecrates all Church buildings, altars, baptisteries and holy vessels and vestments in his Diocese or Eparchy.\n\nHe exercises the same authority in his Metropolis and its jurisdiction as the Patriarch on his Throne. He can also be the Abbot of a Monastery, if assigned by the Patriarch. In the case of the departure of the Patriarch, the Senior Metropolitan in ordination, acts as Locum Tenens of the Throne, until the election of the new Patriarch, whom he will enthrone, along with the entire body of the Hierarchy of the Throne. During that time, no ordination of new Hierarchs, no consecration of the Holy Myron, no new Patriarchal decrees or alteration of previous Patriarchal or Holy Synod decrees can be made. He is Second in Rank in the Episcopal Dignity.\n\nHierarch chosen to oversee a Diocese or an Eparchy, whether this Diocese or Eparchy is a subdivision of the Patriarchate or a subdivision of a greater Province, ruled by a Metropolitan Archbishop (which, in this case these are called Suffragan Bishops.) He is the Shepherd of his flock. He has the right to consecrate parishes, altars, baptisteries and all ecclesiastical foundations. He assists the Patriarch and other Hierarchs in consecrating, crowning and enthroning other Patriarchs, Catholicoi, Archbishops, Metropolitans and Bishops. He ordains Archpriests, Priests, Archdeacons, Deacons, Sub-deacons and all minor orders to serve the parishes of his Diocese or Eparchy.\n\nHe bestows the honor of the Great Schema upon the Monastics who have achieved the highest degree of Monastic life or upon those who are to be consecrated to the Episcopal Rank and ordain novices to the monastic rank for the monasteries under his jurisdiction. He assists the Patriarch in consecrating the Holy Myron. He also consecrates, within his Diocese or Eparchy, all Church buildings, altars, baptisteries, holy vessels and vestments.\n\nHe exercises the same authority in his Diocese as the Patriarch on his Throne. He can also be the Abbot of a Monastery, if assigned by the Patriarch. He is Third in Rank in the Episcopal Dignity.\n\nHierarch who does not have a jurisdiction over a particular Diocese and who is given a temporary Patriarchal assignment to shepherd or supervise either a particular district/portion of the Patriarchal Diocese or on \"at large\" designation as a delegate assistant to the Hierarch. He can also be serving within the Patriarchal Diocese/Jurisdiction, shepherding multiple congregations. He can also supervise an area or a region that has not yet been designated or established as a Diocese, thus acting as an Exarch of the Throne. In this case, he is considered as a Patriarchal Vicar if assigned within Egypt (the Mother Church) or as a Patriarchal Exarch of the Throne if assigned outside Egypt for certain duration.\n\nHe also can be the administrator of a Bishopric (i.e. the Youth, Social & Ecumenical Services, Scientific Research & Higher Coptic Studies Bishoprics), which are patriarchal organizations headed by a General Bishop concerned with social, educational and spiritual care of the members of the patriarchate at large or of a Patriarchal Institution (the Patriarchal Print Shop, or the Patriarchal Secretariat). In this capacity, he is the Administrator of this particular Bishopric or Patriarchal Institution. He assists the Patriarch and other Hierarchs in consecrating, crowning and enthroning other Patriarchs, Catholicoi, Archbishops, Metropolitans and Bishops. He ordains Archpriests, Priests, Archdeacons, Deacons, Sub-deacons and all minor orders to serve the parishes with Patriarchal permission within the province, which are directly under the Patriarchal jurisdiction, whether within Egypt or outside Egypt, when delegated .\n\nHe assists the Patriarch in consecrating the Holy Myron. He also consecrates all Church buildings, altars, baptisteries and holy vessels and vestments by Patriarchal delegation. He reports directly to the Patriarch. He has the same Episcopal Authority and Dignity as a regular Bishop.\n\nHe can also be the Abbot of a Monastery, if assigned by the Patriarch, and in this case he is given the title of Bishop Abbot, and ceases to be a General Bishop or Exarch of the Throne. It is to be noted, however, that the Title of General Bishop is not in conformity with the Holy and Apostolic Canon Laws of the Orthodox Church. On the other hand, an Exarch was and still is a permissible form of Patriarchal delegation or representation.\n\nA Suffragan Hierarch who has been delegated by the Patriarch or a Metropolitan Archbishop to serve a district or part of the Patriarchal or Metropolitan Archdiocese or jurisdiction, or a suffragan diocese to the Metropolitan Archdiocese; if suffragan diocese is in question based on a quasi-permanent, occasional or as a temporal helper, then it is within Patriarchal diocesan jurisdiction, although in this case, he would be called Assistant Bishop. He shepherds the congregation of that particular diocese (if suffragan) or district (if within the patriarchal diocese), reporting directly to the Metropolitan Archbishop or the Pope of Alexandria respectively.\n\nHe can also be assigned as an assistant by the Pope of Alexandria to help a Metropolitan Bishop in his Metropolitanate, which is not divided into smaller subdivisions of suffragan dioceses, and based upon the Metropolitan Bishop's or the Metropolitan Archbishop's request, if the latter requires an assistant. In this case, he is called an Assistant Bishop, he reports to the Diocesan Hierarch, i.e. the Metropolitan Bishop or the Metropolitan Archbishop.\n\nHe does not, however, inherit (takeover) the Metropolis after the departure of the Metropolitan Bishop or the Metropolitan Archbishop. In the case that this Bishop is chosen as a \"Coadjutor Bishop\" to a particular Metropolis/Archdiocese or a Suffragan Diocese of the Metropolis in the capacity of Coadjutor Bishop, in assistance to the Metropolitan Bishop or the Metropolitan Archbishop, thus being second in command; then he has the right of succession when the latter reposes in the Lord. However, this form of governance is not favored and seldom applied nowadays in the Alexandrine tradition.\n\nIf the Metropolitan Bishop or the Metropolitan Archbishop of a large Metropolis or Archdiocese is in need of one or more general helper in all kinds of services and to delegate to serve or shepherd all over the jurisdiction of the aforementioned Hierarch, then the chosen Bishop/s is/are called Auxiliary Bishop/s to the Hierarch in these capacities.\n\nThe idea of having more than one Bishop shepherding a particular Diocese/Metropolitanate/Archdiocese is against the Canon Laws of the Church. This, however has been, recently, adapted and ratified by local Synodical Decrees, on the basis that the Auxiliary Bishop is assigned to a Metropolitan Bishop or the Metropolitan Archbishop within his Province, for a specific district or region (being too small to be considered as a suffragan diocese), as a means for better serving the congregation of a large Diocese. In this case, the large Diocese is considered as a Province. These Auxiliary Bishops are considered to the Metropolitan Bishop or the Metropolitan Archbishop of the Province as the Bishops of the Patriarchate are to the Patriarch within his Patriarchate. If the Metropolis or the Archdiocese has one or more suffragan diocese within its jurisdiction, then the appointment of Suffragan Bishops is a canonically accepted measure to extend the proper episcopal shepherding to this/these suffragan diocese(s).\n\nThese appointments are reasoned in the following cases: \n\nThe Auxiliary Bishop/Suffragan Bishop/Assistant Bishop assists the Patriarch and other Hierarchs in consecrating, crowning and enthroning other Patriarchs, Catholicoi, Archbishops, Metropolitans and Bishops. He ordains Archpriests, Priests, Archdeacons, Deacons, Sub-deacons and all minor orders to serve the parishes of his District, Diocese or Eparchy. He assists the Patriarch, and all the Metropolitans and all the Bishops in consecrating the Holy Myron. He also consecrates all Church buildings, altars, baptisteries, holy vessels and vestments by Patriarchal, Archiepiscopal or Metropolitan delegation. He has the same Episcopal Authority and Dignity as a regular Bishop.\n\nA Hierarch, who is given the title for a defunct Diocese, in commemoration of its historical status. In the Coptic Orthodox Patriarchate of Alexandria, it has been the custom to give this title to a Metropolitan Bishop or a Metropolitan Archbishop or a Bishop who already shepherds an active Archdiocese or Diocese. It would be considered a part of his ecclesiastical jurisdiction; rather than having a Metropolitan Bishop or a Metropolitan Archbishop or a Bishop overseeing a defunct Diocese, with no real congregation of its own (i.e. Pentapolis and Nubia).\n\nHe assists the Patriarch and other Hierarchs in consecrating, crowning and enthroning other Patriarchs, Catholicoi, Archbishops, Metropolitans and Bishops. He ordains Archpriests, Priests, Archdeacons, Deacons, Sub-deacons and all minor orders to serve the parishes of his Diocese or Eparchy. (Being already a Diocesan Metropolitan or Bishop as mentioned above).\n\nHe has the same Episcopal Authority and Dignity as any regular Bishop or Metropolitan (since in this case, he is in fact a Diocesan Bishop/Metropolitan). He can also be the Abbot of a Monastery, if assigned by the Patriarch, and in this case, he can keep his title of Titular Bishop, side by side with his title of Bishop Abbot.\n\nAn episcopal rank given for a Hierarch of a small town or village, under the jurisdiction of a Metropolitan Bishop, a Metropolitan Archbishop or a Bishop. He has the same ecclesiastical authority as that of the other Hierarchs. The exception is that he is to ordain Priests or Deacons and all Minor Orders, to consecrate holy vessels, altars, baptisteries or Churches only in his village or town and only with the authorization of the Patriarch, if assigned within the Patriarchal Diocese, or that of a Metropolitan Bishop, a Metropolitan Archbishop or a Bishop of the Metropolis/Diocese, in which his town or village is.\n\nThis special Patriarchal, Metropolitan or Episcopal permission is essential for the above-mentioned ordinations and consecrations. He cannot do the above-mentioned consecration outside his assigned jurisdiction, or even within the main Diocesan cities of the province he serves in.\n\nHe assists the Patriarch and other Hierarchs in consecrating, crowning and enthroning other Patriarchs, Catholicoi, Archbishops, Metropolitans and Bishops by Episcopal permission of the ruling hierarch of the Provincial Diocese or Eparchy, in which he is serving.\n\nHe also has no jurisdiction over the Priests or Archpriests of the Major or Capital Cities within the Province where his town or village is located. He has the same Episcopal Authority & Dignity as the Diocesan Bishop, including the above-mentioned authorities with permission. He can also be the Abbot of a Monastery, if assigned by the Patriarch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "355997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355997", "title": "Hunting, Fishing, Nature and Traditions", "text": "Hunting, Fishing, Nature and Traditions\n\nHunting, Fishing, Nature and Traditions (; ; abbreviated as CPNT ) is an agrarianist French political party which aims to defend the traditional values of rural France. Its current leader is Eddie Puyjalon. The party states it is neither right nor left but represents rural people on the whole in their diversity.\n\nThe party was a member of the Presidential Majority of Nicolas Sarkozy.\n\nFormed in 1985, it contested both the European elections of 1989 and 1994 without success. In 1999, it obtained six seats, led by Jean Saint-Josse who was at the top of the list. It lost all representation at the following election to the European Parliament in 2004, when it obtained less than the minimum 3% of votes that allow a party to be reimbursed for campaign expenses. Consequently, it faced a deficit of 300,000 euros. At one stage, it had 32 regional councillors, but lost all of them in that same year. After these problems, most members of the CPNT have joined the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) or the Movement for France, but the party is still in existence, and nominated Frédéric Nihous, a hunter from Northern France, as a candidate in the Presidential election of 2007. Nihous won 1.15% of votes only, much lower than Jean Saint-Josse in 2002.\n\nIn the 2009 European Parliament election, the party ran as the junior partner of the Movement for France under the etiquette of the Libertas political movement led by Irish businessman Declan Ganley. They won 4.8% of the vote, but only one seat, that of MPF leader Philippe de Villiers.\n\nIn August 2009, CPNT President Frédéric Nihous announced interest in joining the Liaison Committee for the Presidential Majority, which co-ordinates the parties which support the policies of President Nicolas Sarkozy.\n\nAfter the standing down of Frédéric Nihous in march 2016, Eddie Puyjalon assumed the leadership of the party.\n\n\nCPNT is strong, for obvious reasons, in certain rural areas of France with an important community of hunters. It is strong in the Somme River estuary to the west of Abbeville, in the Manche department and the Gironde department. In the 1999 European election, CPNT won 25% of the vote in the Somme, 15.4% in the Manche, 15.2% in the Landes department and 11.9% in Gironde. In stark contrast, the party barely won 1% of the vote that year in the Alsatian department of Bas-Rhin and did poorly in the east of France, much more industrialized and much less agrarian.\n\nCPNT has three general councillors: one in the Somme, one in Gironde and one in the Hérault department.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33506778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33506778", "title": "International Institute for Peace", "text": "International Institute for Peace\n\nOriginally founded in Vienna, Austria in 1956, the International Institute For Peace was established as a way to introduce concepts of world peace. The IIP works together with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations (ECOSOC) and the United Nations Organization for Education, Science, Culture and Communication (UNESCO) implement practices of peace worldwide. The IIP was criticized and removed from Vienna for a while. In 1989, the new founder, Erwin Lanc re-founded it and has been up and running again ever since. The emphasis on ideas of peace within multiple environments, specifically within schools and the military is an example of what the IIP does. The ideals of peace that the IIP focus on does not only apply to certain countries, but they also apply worldwide. \n\nThe International Institute for Peace was founded in Vienna in 1956 and re-founded by Erwin Lanc in 1989.\n\nIt describes itself as follows:\n\n\"The International Institute for Peace (IIP) is an international and non-governmental organisation (NGO and INGO), with consultative status at ECOSOC and UNESCO. The IIP pursues the objective of contributing to the maintenance and strengthening of peace through its research activities and as a platform to promote non-violent conflict resolution in different areas of the world and to a wide range of people.\"\n\nIt has consultative status at the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations (ECOSOC) and the United Nations Organization for Education, Science, Culture and Communication (UNESCO). Its current president is Dr. Hannes Swoboda.\n\nAccording to Dr Julian Lewis, a campaigner against the peace movement, it was \"set up by the Kremlin after the WPC [World Peace Council] was thrown out of Austria for subversion.\" According to another source it was set up on the initiative of the WPC, and according to J.G.Barlow of the Heritage Foundation, the WPC operated under cover of the IIP after the WPC was expelled from Vienna.\n\nAfter 1989, Erwin Lanc re-founded the institute as a non-governmental organisation and introduced new statutes. The IIP since 1989 is an Austrian association according to Austrian Law and is independent from any state.\n\nThe International Institute for Peace was classified as an institute that is closely associated with UNESCO in 2011. Both IIP and UNESCO work together to address any and all violence that takes place, mainly in a lot of cities and populated places. The cases are then analyzed and members of the IIP and UNESCO think of and attempt to find ways of distribute peaceful ways to take care of the situation(s) at hand. The work that the IIP does helps UNESCO gain a more developed practice of peace and is taught how it can benefit younger people. The collaboration of these two organizations will most likely increase the chance of eventually obtaining world peace.\nThe IIP does a lot of things and helps in many ways. A few of the things that they do include: incorporating peace-building practices into various aspects such as art, climate change and the environment, provide mediation efforts for those who are in very stressful/violent situations (such as war), and building a global platform that people can access in order to help create peaceful societies. The art, climate change and environmental aspects are different ways for people to see and understand the importance of peace in a creative way and or emphasize peace in a way that is understandable. Mediation efforts are a way for the institute to suggest and or provide ways for people to practice peace. The global platform would/will do essentially the same thing, but on a global, more accessible scale.\n\nThe people who work at the IIP come from various countries and backgrounds. These people are experts in areas such as politics, peace research, and conflict resolution. This international organization focuses on promoting peaceful solutions to people in a wide variety of places. Typically, these things are taught in schools and the military, but this is an exception. Research is something that the IIP focuses on all around the world, including Austria, which is where the IIP is founded and based out of. They do a lot of research on topics such as international organization, peace, etc. The institute also looks at some findings which are based on how the economy, society and effectiveness of conflict resolutions. Their findings look at all of these things combined, because they all play a significant role when it comes to peace.\n\nThe IIP also focuses on trying to get people to experience the world and different cultures. The purpose of this is to get people to travel, as well as to get them to understand how international relations work. In a way, this also gets people to practice peace with the people in different countries/of different cultures. The cultural differences and learning about them is an important concept that the IIP tries to emphasize. Peace plays a role in traveling, because the relations with other countries determines how much peace there is and whether it needs to be enforced more and if so, what and or how can the IIP do to help.\n\nThe Palestine-Israel Journal (PIJ) held a conference in Amman, Jordan in 2007. This conference was entitled, \"Promoting Peace Through Dialogue\". This conference contained peace workshops. These workshops taught people from Palestine, Israel, as well as surrounding countries how to brainstorm peaceful solutions to various scenarios. The conference was successful in its efforts. Authors say that this/these types of workshops would be beneficial towards additional efforts to obtain world peace.\n\nThe Institute for International Policy Studies (IIPS) was founded in 1988 by Yasuhiro Nakasone, who is the former Prime Minister of Japan. The IIPS was established as a way to propose policies of peace in an effort to help create a more peaceful world. The IIPS is a research institute that uses global perspectives to help implement practices of peace. This institute focuses both on the peace and or lack there of not only in Japan, but around the world. Japan is one of, if not the most peaceful country in the world, since they focus on and practice methods of peace as part of their culture. The IIPS emphasizes these practices and proposes these ideas as ways to help create world peace.\n\n2008 was the year that marked the 13th anniversary of a treaty that was signed between China and Japan. This treaty is called the Treaty of Peace and Friendship between Japan and the People's Republic of China. This treaty was created to keep peace between China and Japan. Over the past 20 years, the IIPS has been doing research on regional peace, both in Eastern Asia and on a global scale. They are studying these things to stabilize and continue to keep the developing peaceful relations between China and Japan. Both China and Japan want to set an example for the rest of Eastern Asia, as well as the world about how to keep peace between multiple countries.\n\nIn 2012, the European Union (EU) was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Winning the Nobel Peace Prize makes the EU a perfect example and framework for peace projects around the world. The type of peace project that is exemplified here is what is called Wilsonian Liberalism. This means that these peace projects would involve free trade and democracy.\n\nThe Canadian Peace Research Institute is an organization that was established in Canada in 1962. This organization focuses on how science/the sciences can help develop world peace. The people who created this institute hope to encourage other countries to create their own versions of the Canadian Peace Research Institute. They also want to encourage more scientific research and solutions within other countries. These include things such as natural and social sciences.\n\nThere is currently a lack of research on the topic of promoting peace. There is a little bit of research, but not a lot. A lot of what is talked about is violence and war, instead of solutions to those issues. Peace research is not only done around the world, but as well as in an individual country and starts within the country and or state(s) themselves. There has been a lot of history of war in violence in the world. Due to this fact, it has lead to the creation of the International Peace Research Association (IPRA). This group was established in August, 1963. The purpose of this group was/is to help promote the idea of and advocate for more peace research to be conducted.\n"}
{"id": "10851858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10851858", "title": "Jewish Resistance Movement", "text": "Jewish Resistance Movement\n\nThe Jewish Resistance Movement (, \"Tnu'at HaMeri HaIvri\", literally \"Hebrew Rebellion Movement\"), also called United Resistance Movement (URM), was an alliance of the Zionist paramilitary organizations Haganah, Irgun and Lehi in the British Mandate of Palestine. It was established in October 1945 by the Jewish Agency and operated for some ten months, until August 1946. The alliance coordinated acts of sabotage and terrorist attacks against the British authorities.\n\nThe Zionist Movement had high hopes for the Labour administration elected in Britain after the Second World War. The latter, however, continued to apply the policies laid down in the White Paper of 1939 which included restrictions on Jewish immigration to Palestine. \n\nNegotiations began for the formation of the movement in August 1945 at the behest of Haganah leaders Moshe Sneh and Israel Galili. At the end of October of the same year, an agreement was signed forming the \"Jewish Resistance Movement\". The leadership of the new movement included four representatives: Two from the Haganah (Sneh and Galili), a representative of the Irgun (Menachem Begin) and a representative of Lehi (Nathan Yellin Mor).\n\nIn order to coordinate the activities of the groups, a civilian committee known as \"Committee X\" was made up of six members, representatives of the various political stream, (including Levi Eshkol). The operations board, who approved operations plans, was made up of Yitzhak Sadeh (of the Palmach), Eitan Livni (of the Irgun) and Yaakov Eliav (1917–1985) (of the Lehi).\n\nDuring the movement's existence, eleven major operations were carried out, eight of them by the Palmach and Haganah, and three by the Irgun and Lehi, as well as many smaller operations. Notable among these were:\n\nIn August 1946, in the wake of the King David Hotel bombing, Chaim Weizmann, president of the WZO appealed to the movement to cease all further military activity until a decision on the issue had been reached by the Jewish Agency. The Jewish Agency backed Weizmann's recommendation to cease activities, a decision reluctantly accepted by the Haganah, but not by the Irgun and the Lehi. The JRM was dismantled and each of the founding groups continued operating according to their own policy.\n"}
{"id": "5191059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5191059", "title": "La Noche de los Bastones Largos", "text": "La Noche de los Bastones Largos\n\nLa Noche de los Bastones Largos (\"The Night of the Long Batons\") was the violent dislodging of students and teachers from five academic faculties of the University of Buenos Aires (UBA), by the Federal Argentine Police, on July 29, 1966. The academic faculties had been occupied by the students, professors, and graduates (the autonomous government of the university) who opposed the political intervention by the military government of General Juan Carlos Onganía to unilaterally revoke the academic freedom established in the 1918 university reform.\n\nOn June 28, 1966, a coup led by General Juan Carlos Onganía had overthrown elected president Arturo Illia and started the military government known as the Revolución Argentina.\n\nThe Argentine public universities were by then organised as dictated by the university reform, which established the autonomy of the university, and a political power divided in a tripartite government of students, professors and graduates.\n\nThe repression was particularly violent in the faculties of Exact and Natural Sciences and Philosophy and Literature of the UBA.\n\nThe name given to the events refers to the long batons used by the police to hit students, professors and graduates while taking them out detained of the buildings. 400 people were detained, with laboratories and libraries completely destroyed.\n\nIn the following months hundreds of professors were fired, resigned their positions or abandoned the country.\n\nIn total, 301 university professors emigrated, of whom 215 were scientists, and 166 found their place in other Latin American universities, mainly in Chile and Venezuela. 94 went to universities of United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, and 41 moved to Europe.\n\nIn some cases, complete research teams were dismantled, such as the Instituto de Cálculo de Ciencias Exactas, where the first computer in Latin America was functioning. All of its 70 members resigned and left the country. Similar cases were those of the Instituto de Psicología Evolutiva and the Instituto de Radiación Cósmica.\n\nSome of the better known affected professors were:\n\n\nWith the intervention of the military government to the universities, a strict censorship was applied to the contents of the programs, and the scientific project of tight relationship between education and investigation in the universities.\n\nThe act of the military government is considered a central reference of the cultural and academic decadence, and the \"brain drain\" in Argentina.\n\nIn 2004 film director Tristán Bauer presented his documentary film \"La noche de los bastones largos: el futuro intervenido\", based in the events of July 29, 1966.\n\nIn July 2005 the Federación Universitaria Argentina delivered recognition diplomas to the 70 professors that resigned in 1966 to their positions at the Faculty of Agronomy of the University of Buenos Aires\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25372042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25372042", "title": "Linked timestamping", "text": "Linked timestamping\n\nLinked timestamping is a type of trusted timestamping where issued time-stamps are related to each other.\n\nLinked timestamping creates time-stamp tokens which are dependent on each other, entangled in some authenticated data structure. Later modification of the issued time-stamps would invalidate this structure. The temporal order of issued time-stamps is also protected by this data structure, making backdating of the issued time-stamps impossible, even by the issuing server itself.\n\nThe top of the authenticated data structure is generally \"published\" in some hard-to-modify and widely witnessed media, like printed newspaper or public blockchain. There are no (long-term) private keys in use, avoiding PKI-related risks.\n\nSuitable candidates for the authenticated data structure include:\n\nThe simplest linear hash chain-based time-stamping scheme is illustrated in the following diagram:\nThe linking-based time-stamping authority (TSA) usually performs the following distinct functions:\n\n\n\n\nLinked timestamping is inherently more secure than the usual, public-key signature based time-stamping. All consequential time-stamps \"seal\" previously issued ones - hash chain (or other authenticated dictionary in use) could be built only in one way; modifying issued time-stamps is nearly as hard as finding a preimage for the used cryptographic hash function. Continuity of operation is observable by users; periodic publications in widely witnessed media provide extra transparency.\n\nTampering with absolute time values could be detected by users, whose time-stamps are relatively comparable by system design.\n\nAbsence of secret keys increases system trustworthiness. There are no keys to leak and hash algorithms are considered more future-proof than modular arithmetic based algorithms, e.g. RSA.\n\nLinked timestamping scales well - hashing is much faster than public key cryptography. There is no need for specific cryptographic hardware with its limitations.\n\nThe common technology for guaranteeing long-term attestation value of the issued time-stamps (and digitally signed data) is periodic over-time-stamping of the time-stamp token. Because of missing key-related risks and of the plausible safety margin of the reasonably chosen hash function this over-time-stamping period of hash-linked token could be an order of magnitude longer than of public-key signed token.\n\nHaber and Stornetta proposed in 1990 to link issued time-stamps together into linear hash-chain, using a collision-resistant hash function. The main rationale was to diminish TSA trust requirements.\n\nTree-like schemes and operating in rounds were proposed by Benaloh and de Mare in 1991 and by Bayer, Haber and Stornetta in 1992.\n\nBenaloh and de Mare constructed a one-way accumulator in 1994 and proposed its use in time-stamping. When used for aggregation, one-way accumulator requires only one constant-time computation for round membership verification.\n\nSurety started the first commercial linked timestamping service in January 1995. Linking scheme is described and its security is analyzed in the following article by Haber and Sornetta.\n\nBuldas et al. continued with further optimization and formal analysis of binary tree and threaded tree based schemes.\n\nSkip-list based time-stamping system was implemented in 2005; related algorithms are quite efficient.\n\nSecurity proof for hash-function based time-stamping schemes was presented by Buldas, Saarepera in 2004. There is an explicit upper bound formula_1 for the number of time stamps issued during the aggregation period; it is suggested that it is probably impossible to prove the security without this explicit bound - the so-called black-box reductions will fail in this task. Considering that all known practically relevant and efficient security proofs are black-box, this negative result is quite strong.\n\nNext, in 2005 it was shown that bounded time-stamping schemes with a trusted audit party (who periodically reviews the list of all time-stamps issued during an aggregation period) can be made \"universally composable\" - they remain secure in arbitrary environments (compositions with other protocols and other instances of the time-stamping protocol itself).\n\nBuldas, Laur showed in 2007 that bounded time-stamping schemes are secure in a very strong sense - they satisfy the so-called \"knowledge-binding\" condition. The security guarantee offered by Buldas, Saarepera in 2004 is improved by diminishing the security loss coefficient from formula_1 to formula_3.\n\nThe hash functions used in the secure time-stamping schemes do not necessarily have to be collision-resistant or even one-way; secure time-stamping schemes are probably possible even in the presence of a universal collision-finding algorithm (i.e. universal and attacking program that is able to find collisions for any hash function). This suggests that it is possible to find even stronger proofs based on some other properties of the hash functions.\nAt the illustration above hash tree based time-stamping system works in rounds (formula_4, formula_5, formula_6, ...), with one aggregation tree per round. Capacity of the system (formula_1) is determined by the tree size (formula_8, where formula_9 denotes binary tree depth). Current security proofs work on the assumption that there is a hard limit of the aggregation tree size, possibly enforced by the subtree length restriction.\n\nISO 18014 part 3 covers 'Mechanisms producing linked tokens'.\n\nAmerican National Standard for Financial Services, \"Trusted Timestamp Management and Security\" (ANSI ASC X9.95 Standard) from June 2005 covers linking-based and hybrid time-stamping schemes.\n\nThere is no IETF RFC or standard draft about linking based time-stamping. RFC 4998 (Evidence Record Syntax) encompasses hash tree and time-stamp as an integrity guarantee for long-term archiving.\n\n"}
{"id": "8050864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8050864", "title": "Loss exchange ratio", "text": "Loss exchange ratio\n\nLoss exchange ratio is a figure of merit in attrition warfare. It is usually relevant to a condition or state of war where one side depletes the resources of another through attrition. Specifically and most often used as a comparator in aerial combat, where it is known as a kill-ratio. For example, during the Korean War, American combat jets had a kill-ratio of 4-1. This means for every four aircraft shot down by an American aircraft, one American plane was shot down by an enemy fighter.\n\nLoss exchange ratio has played a significant role in past wars, especially those that have devolved into stalemate and become wars of attrition. For example, the German objective at the Battle of Verdun (1916) during World War I was not the seizure of any strategic objective, but rather to inflict an LER of 2:1 on the French forces and thereby cripple the French army.\n\nDuring the First Indochina War, Võ Nguyên Giáp, the leader of the Việt Minh, told his French opposite number that \"you can kill ten of my men for every one I kill of yours, and at that rate, I will still triumph.\" In fact, the LER was approximately 3:1 in favor of the French, and they did indeed withdraw in defeat. A total of 500,000+ Vietnamese were either killed, wounded or captured during the First Indochina War.\n\nIt is arguable that the concept of the Loss exchange ratio has become relatively less important in modern Western military doctrine, as some military theories posit that it is just as militarily effective to disrupt enemy forces and outmaneuver them, thereby reducing their combat effectiveness without necessarily inflicting massive casualties.\n\n"}
{"id": "23585115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23585115", "title": "MAGEN (security)", "text": "MAGEN (security)\n\nMAGEN (Masking Gateway for Enterprises) is information security technology designed by IBM's Haifa Research Lab. MAGEN is designed to keep users from viewing discrete chunks of secret or sensitive data on their screens that they are not authorized to see.\n\nMAGEN applies a sort of inverse highlighting on the data in question in real time as it is rendered on the screen. This allows \"eyes only\" business logic to be implemented once, at the screen, rather than within each affected application.\n\nMAGEN leverages a combination of optical character recognition and screen scraping techniques.\n\n"}
{"id": "36032626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36032626", "title": "Malayisation", "text": "Malayisation\n\nMalayisation is a process of assimilation and acculturation, that involves acquisition (, literally \"embracing Malayness\") or imposition ( or \"Melayuisasi\") of elements of Malay culture, in particular, Islam and Malay language, as experienced by non-Malay populations of territories controlled or substantially influenced by historical Malay sultanates and modern . It is often described as a process of civilisational expansion, drawing a wide range of indigenous peoples into the Muslim, Malay-speaking polities of Maritime Southeast Asia.\n\nAn early form of Malayisation occurred during the territorial and commercial expansion of Melaka Sultanate in the 15th century, which spread the Classical Malay language, culture, and the religion of Islam to the Maritime Southeast Asia. Following the demise of Melaka in the early 16th century, instances of this assimilation of people from different ethnic origins into Malay culture, continued under numerous Malay-Muslim sultanates that emerged in Malay Peninsula, Sumatra and Borneo. Malayisation could either be voluntary or forced and is most visible in the case of territories where the Malay language or culture were dominant or where their adoption could result in increased prestige or social status.\n\nThe ultimate manifestation of this cultural influence can be observed in the present dominant position of Malay language and its variants in Maritime Southeast Asia, the establishment of ethnic Malays realm within the region, the forming of new cultures such as the Peranakan, and the development of many Malay trade and creole languages.\n\nIn linguistics, the term Malayisation may refer to the adaptation of oral or written elements of any other language into a form that is more comprehensible to a speaker of Malay; or in general, of altering something so that it becomes Malay in form or character.\n\nThere is significant genetic, linguistic, cultural, and social diversity among modern Malay subgroups, mainly attributed to centuries of migration and assimilation of various ethnic groups and tribes within Southeast Asia. Historically, the Malays are descended from the Malayic-speaking Austronesians, various Austroasiatic tribes, Cham and Funan settlers of ancient polities in coastal areas of Malay peninsula, Sumatra and Borneo; Brunei, Old Kedah, Langkasuka, Gangga Negara, Old Kelantan, Negara Sri Dharmaraja, Malayu and Srivijaya.\n\nThe coming of Islam to Southeast Asia constituted a new era in Malay history. The new religion transformed many aspects of the old Hindu-Buddhist-Animistic cultural practices and beliefs of the people and imbued it with an Islamic worldview. Beginning 12th century, the old polities were soon gradually superseded by Islamic kingdoms across the region. The most important of these was Melaka Sultanate, established around 1400 CE. At the zenith of its power in the 15th century, Melaka exercised its special role not only as a trading centre, but also as the centre of Islamic learning, therefore promoting the development of Malay literary traditions.\n\nThe blossoming of Malay literature in this era had transformed the Classical Malay dialect of Melaka, enabling it to attain the linguistic prestige. As a result, growth in trade between Melaka and the rest of the archipelago has made the dialect to spread beyond the traditional Malay speaking world, and eventually became a \"lingua franca\" of Maritime Southeast Asia. It was then further evolved into \"Bahasa Melayu pasar\" (\"Bazaar Malay\") or \"Bahasa Melayu rendah\" (\"Low Malay\"), which generally believed as a form of pidgin influenced by contact between Malay and Chinese traders. The most important development, has been that pidgin Malay creolised, creating several new languages such as the Ambonese Malay, Manado Malay and Betawi language.\nThe period of Melaka was also known as the era of Malay ethnogenesis, signified by strong infusion of Islamic values into Malay identity, and the flourish of various important aspects of Malay culture. The term 'Melayu' (\"Malay\") to refer to a distinct group of people had been clearly defined, to describe the cultural preferences of the Melakans as against foreigners from the same region, notably the Javanese and Thais. The \"cara Melayu\" ('ways of Malay'), were the \"cara Melaka\" ('ways of Melaka'); in language, dress, manners, entertainments and so forth, might be referred to as 'Malay', and this Melaka-based culture or civilisation was acknowledged right across the archipelago. The aboriginal communities from Orang Asli and Orang Laut who constituted a majority original population of Melaka were also Malayised and incorporated into the hierarchical structure of Melaka. Successfully did Melakan rulers equate the kingdom with \"Melayu\" that one Malay text describes how, after a defeat, the people of Melaka fled into the jungle where they became \"Jakun\", that is \"Orang Hulu\" ('upriver people'). It shows that, without the mantle of Melaka's prestige, the local inhabitants were undifferentiated from the other non-Malay elements in neighbouring areas.\n\nThe Melakans were described by European travellers as \"white\", well-proportioned, and proud. The men normally wear cotton garments (\"sarongs\") which cover them only from the waist down, but a few of the more distinguished wear short, silk coats, under which they carry krisses. Their women, who are olive-coloured, comely, and brunette, usually wear fine silk garments and short shirts. Nobody but the Sultan may wear yellow colours without special permission under pain of death. The faces of the natives are broad with wide noses and round eyes. Both sexes are well-mannered and devotees of all forms of refined amusement, especially music, ballads, and poetry. The rich pass life pleasantly in their country homes at Bertam which are surrounded by bountiful orchards. Most of them maintain separate establishments in the city from which they conduct their business. They take offence easily and will not permit anyone to put his hand on their head or shoulders. Often malicious and untruthful, they take pride in their ability to wield the kris adroitly against their personal enemies. In larger engagements they fight in bands with bows and arrows, spears and krises. In their beliefs, they are devout Muslims. Their language \"is reported to be the most courteous and seemelie speech of all the Orient.\" It is readily learned by foreigners, and is the lingua franca for the entire region.\n\nAfter Melaka was conquered by the Portuguese in 1511, and the ruling family had established a successor polity in Johor, it would appear that the 'ways of Malay' continued to be fostered and began to have an influence in surrounding sultanates. Startling even to the Portuguese conquerors was the extent to which most of Sumatra's east coast had been influenced by its neighbour across the straits; almost all urban elites spoke Melakan Malay, and they also acknowledged not only correct speech but also good manners and appropriate behaviour, as Malay custom. The role of Melaka as a model also becomes evident, when comparing its law codes with those of other succeeding Malay sultanates.\n\nMalay language was one aspect of the prestige of the sultanates and considered as a language of the learned in Southeast Asia in 17th and 18th century comments. An 18th-century European account even suggests that one is not considered a very broadly educated man in the east unless he understands Malay. Such observations on the influence of the Malay language and kingship concepts relate to the inter-monarchical context. At the local level, individual Malay sultanates all over the archipelago that usually based on rivers and often close to the coast, exercised sufficient attractiveness, or suasion, to foster a process of assimilation. They were operating on a range of frontiers - in Sumatra, Borneo and the Peninsula - where non-Muslim peoples, in many cases the tribal communities, were gradually being brought into Malay realm: learning to speak the Malay language, adopting Islam, changing their customs and style of dress and assuming roles of one type or another within the expanding sultanates.\n\nIn an early example from eastern Sumatra, the 15th century Sultanate of Aru, believed to be the precussor of Malay Sultanate of Deli, is described in the Melaka-Johor chronicle as being of Batak origin. European observations on the same region from the 19th century suggests that people further upstream on the rivers of Deli, people who had long had a trading relationships with the coast, and were later called Karo Batak, were being incorporated in the Deli Sultanate. The Batak and Malay distinction was not racial but cultural, and by converting to Islam and taking on Malay dress and culture, the Batak could become Malay. Both European and Malay writings show them being tutored in the new culture, receiving Malay titles such as \"Orang Kaya Sri di Raja\" as part of the process of conversion. Similar developments were underway in Asahan, to the south, and on the Barus frontier in the northwest of Sumatra where entry to the new sphere entailed not only a change in manners an clothing styles, but also the adoption of the Islamic religion and the Malay language.\n\nOn the peninsula, the effects of the continued contacts between the non-Malays with Malay-dominated centre is suggested in a 19th-century account of Pahang, which mentions that some of the natives who had strong trading ties with the Malays had begun to emulate their speech and dress. The population of Pattani also has been described as partly aboriginal in origin. In the case of Johor, the aboriginal people who were reported in the 19th century to be speaking Aslian languages, were called 'Malay' a century later. It has been suggested that these people would probably have joined the Jakun first before becoming Malay. The Jakun are described as being similar to Malays in their kinship arrangements, but resistant to aspects of social structure as well as the Islamic religion of the Malays. In 17th century Cambodia, a polity renowned for its Buddhism, king Ramathipadi I converted to Islam, took the name Muhammad Ibrahim, married a Malay Muslim of a princely Cham family, had his courtiers wear krisses and used Malay language in correspondence. During the same century in Champa, a once powerful Indianized polity but by that time retreating before the advancing Vietnamese, the rulers held the title \"Paduka Seri Sultan\" which is so common in the Malay polities. These rulers were in close contact with the peninsula, in particular Kelantan. French missionaries reported the presence of scribes and religious scholars from Kelantan right into the 19th century. It was believed that Kelantanese who eventually helped to give the Cham struggle against the Vietnamese, the character of a religious crusade.\n\nIn Brunei Sultanate, many of the Muslim subjects of the Sultan were converts from local Dayak groups. Acculturation had also taken place in Sarawak and Northern Borneo (modern day Sabah), where Brunei Sultanate and by the 18th century the Sulu Sultanate were collecting products for China and other markets, and establishing a fairly loose, river based governmental presence. Dayak chiefs were incorporated into the Brunei hierarchy, being given Malay titles such as \"Datuk\", \"Temenggong\" and \"Orang Kaya\". What had once been independent villages were gradually built into wider units, and their leaders co-opted into the hierarchy of the polity. A colonial writing about Sarawak, observed that many non-Malays would be amazed to learn the degree to which the present Malay population derives from the local native sources, and among the latter are Sea (Iban) and Land Dayaks (Bidayuh). In northeastern Borneo, the Bulungan Malays appear to be of Kayan origin. Further down the east coast, the Paser polity had extended its influence into the Barito-speaking Dayak, and some of these people became Muslim and were eventually referred to as 'Paser Malays'. In southern Borneo, the Malay-speaking Sultanate of Banjar had been pushing inland since the 17th century, bringing Dayaks into its Muslim culture. In the west, the development of such sultanates of Sambas, Sukadana and Landak tells a similar tale of recruitment among Dayak people.\nAn examination of the spread of the Malay culture should not neglect the Philippines, where things may have developed differently only because of the Spanish Conquest that had morphed the archipelago into an isolated-colony. The influence of the Brunei sultanate in the Luzon region before Spanish rule is well recorded. In 1521, the ruler of Maynila known as Rajah Matanda, was a grandson of Sultan Bolkiah of Brunei, and \"Borneans\" were described as introducing Islam to the natives of Balayan, Manila, Mindoro and Bonbon. A further account declared that the \"Borneans\" and the people of Luzon had become 'almost one people', and their clothing styles and ceremonies and customs were certainly similar. When Magellan expedition visited the Philippines Islands, the Malay language was used for communication, and linguistic research has revealed the extent to which Malay had become a 'prestige language'. This is partly evidenced by the fact that key terms from the Malay kingship system entered local languages. These include titles such as \"datu\" dan \"laksamana\", and the words for 'rank' (pangkat), 'sitting legs crossed' (bersila), 'treason' (derhaka), 'magical chanting' (mantera) and 'story' (hikayat).\n\nMalayisation also occurred in the form of acculturation, in addition to complete assimilation into Malay identity. In this way, it shaped the ethnocultural development of creole ethnic group such as Betawi, Banjar, Peranakan, Jawi Peranakan, Kristang, Chitty and so forth. Such acculturation process was also reflected by assimilation of immigrants from other part of Maritime Southeast Asia, commonly known as \"anak dagang\" ('traders'), into the established Malay communities, aided by similarity in lifestyle and common religion (Islam). Among these immigrant communities, some cultural elements of Malay origin were later combined in various forms and degrees with their own elements, which partly retained. Notable groups including the Javanese, Minangkabau and Bugis Malays.\n\nThe Malay peninsula, now an important part of Malaysia, has been the stronghold of Malay sultanates for centuries. As the entire peninsular was consolidated under Melaka's rule in the 15th century, it became the core of the Malay world since then, thus earning its name \"Tanah Melayu\" (\"Malay land\") in Malay language. The traditional institutions of sultanates in the peninsula survived the colonisation, and were incorporated into the blueprints of the modern state in 1948. Ultimately, Malay rulers remained at the highest hierarchical order of the society, in accordance with what commonly referred as \"Ketuanan Melayu\" (\"Malay supremacy\").\nMalayness has been conceived as fundamental basis for state's ideology and it became the main driving force for Malay nationalism in a struggle against British colonisation. The state itself is largely organised around the idea of maintaining the special status of Malays as the first among equals of the \"Bumiputra\" communities. The historical identification of the Malays with Islam was entrenched in the Article 160 of the Constitution of Malaysia. The article defines specifically a \"Malay\" as a person who professes the religion of Islam, habitually speaks the Malay language and conforms to Malay custom. The Malaysian government also has taken the step of defining Malaysian Culture through the 1971 National Culture Policy, which defined what was considered official culture, basing it around Malay culture and integrating Islamic influences. The government has historically made little distinction between \"Malay culture\" and \"Malaysian culture\".\n\nAlthough it has been a subject of criticism even by the Malays themselves, the notion of becoming a Muslim means \"Masuk Melayu\" (entering Malayness) remains popular. This could have been caused by the centuries-old unclear distinction between \"Islamisation\" and \"Malayisation\", for there is a high tendency of the new revertees having eventually Malayised by the dominant Malay-Muslim culture.\n\nPeninsular Malaysia is home to a small indigenous tribal populations, collectively known as Orang Asli. The Malayic speakers among them, already share a common cultural-historical background with the Malays, who can therefore easily see them as \"incomplete\" Malays, requiring only Islam and an acceptance of social hierarchy to make them \"complete\". There are also those who speak languages unrelated to Malay, such as Aslian-speakers, are not quite so easily seen as incomplete Malays, but the gap can be closed to a considerable extent by conversion to Islam. Governmental agencies, both state and federal, including for many years the JHEOA (now known as JAKOA) itself, have accordingly spent much effort in converting the Orang Asli to Islam. The motivation for this is sometimes authentically religious, but it is more usually seen primarily as the means of Malayisation. Governmental policy towards Orang Asli has long proposed their integration into the broader Malaysian community should be brought about by assimilating them specifically into the Malay community, which by local custom and national law is Sunni Muslim by religion. JHEOA officers have been heard to comment that the Orang Asli \"problem\" - usually defined as that of poverty - would disappear if they became Muslims, and hence Malays. In September 1996, for example, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Land and Co-operative Development, Nik Mohamed Zain Nik Yusof, gave the following justification for the Federal government's newly announced review of legislation relating to Orang Asli land rights: \"If these amendments are made, Orang Asli can be more easily integrated into Malay society. It will help them to embrace Islam and follow Malay customs too\".\nThe impact of this institutionalised assimilation efforts has been tremendous to the demographics in certain area of the peninsular. One instance was in the Sedili valley, where modern anthropologists discovered in the 1970s that villages formerly reported by travellers to be Jakun, are now Malay communities.\n\nIn the multi-ethnic state of Sabah, the period of Mustapha Harun leadership (1967–1976) saw the processes of Malayisation and Islamisation, which from the federal government's view appeared to be a check on Kadazandusun nationalism and was therefore perceived as an integration and unifying process with the other native Muslim society, namely the Bajaus, Bruneis, Sungei and Ida'an. The then-mostly pagan Kadazandusun traditionally formed minority of a third of the state population and inhabited the western shores of Sabah. The successor Berjaya government under Harris Salleh continued the same policies. The state government promoted Malay language in government-aided schools, sponsored the Quran-reading competitions and organised various dawah activities. All these the Berjaya government considered to be in line with the spirit of Article 12(2) of the Constitution of Malaysia that provide legitimacy for the state to promote and assist in the funding of Islamic institutions and instruction, the core of which was to be derived from Malay-Muslim elements.\n\nThe traditional Malay notion of fealty to a ruler, charged to protect Islam in his territory, is still central in both Malaysia and Brunei. In Brunei, this has been institutionalised under the state ideology of \"Melayu Islam Beraja\" (\"Malay Islamic Monarchy\"). As a still functioning Malay sultanate, Brunei places Islamic institutions at the centre of the state's interest. It retains an elaborated Malay social hierarchy central to the community. As a result, there are two kind of Malayness in Brunei: the general Malay cultural pattern to which most of the population have by now assimilated, and the higher ranking social position labelled as \"Berunai\" which distinguishes some of those cultural-Malays from others. The other main community, the Kedayans, still rank lower, despite being Muslims and living in a manner virtually identical to that of the \"Orang Berunai\". Thus, unlike what happens elsewhere, assimilation to Malay cultural pattern in Brunei does not necessarily eradicate difference.\n\nSingapore was once the powerhouse of sophisticated Malay cultural production, until Kuala Lumpur took over in the 1970s. Although usually thought of as an essentially Chinese city, Singapore was nevertheless a Malay city. Contrary to the stereotype, Malays were the most urbanised of the island's three main races, and there was no such concentration of urbanised Malays anywhere else in the Malay world. Here were produced a high proportion of the modernist Malay writings, including novels and newspapers, that generated Malay nationalism. The emergence of Singapore-Malay community was added to by intermarriage with Arabs, Indian Muslims and Peninsula Malays immigrants, as well as the adoption of Chinese babies. In other words, Singapore's Malayness was a creolised culture, closer in character to the \"Pesisir\" (coastal) Malay culture that had developed elsewhere in the archipelago than to the kind of Malayness that characterised the Malay world proper of Peninsula and Sumatra. In Singapore itself, assimilation to Malayness was and is purely cultural, with no guiding hand to police it.\n\nHistorically, Indonesia was home to a number of Malay sultanates that were involved in the process of Malayisation throughout the archipelago. Three main elements of Malayisation; Malay monarchy or fealty to Malay ruling sultan, the preeminence of Malay identity (which include superiority of ethnic Malay and Malay language), and supremacy of Islam as the official religion, has no official recognition in modern Indonesian statehood. This is mostly because the pluralism and diversity policy enshrined in Pancasila national ideology that avoid domination of certain group over another.\n\nContrary to Brunei and Malaysia, a major component of Malayness  — fealty to a ruling sultan — was removed from the modern Indonesian republican ideology. The formation of the Java-centered Indonesia saw the effective destruction of the functioning of the Malay sultanates. Indonesian republican outlook regard monarchy as a form of ancient feudalism and incompatible to modern democratic statehood envisioned by Indonesian founding fathers. The movement against ruling monarch mainly led by leftist and nationalist that seek to dismantle traditional royal institution. In March 1946, a major uprising breaks out against several Malay-Muslim Sultanates and rich Malay classes in East Sumatra, removing the traditional feudal social structure in the region. Today, several regional kingdoms or sultanate survive, despite holding no actual political power and without real authority, being replaced by provincial governatorial administration. The exception is Javanese Yogyakarta Sultanate that won special region status, mostly owed to the sultanate's bid and support for Indonesian Republic during Indonesian National Revolution. These sultanates and kingdoms are only recognised as the custody of local culture, arts and traditions, although they might still enjoyed prestiges and held in high esteem especially among local community.\n\nOfficially, Malayness has no special position in Indonesian state ideology, except as one of the constituent regional cultures — which tend to be represented on a province-by-province basis. Loyalty for a certain ethnic group was overshadowed with the new inter-ethnic loyalty, advocating the importance of the national unity and national identity of \"Bangsa Indonesia\" (\"Indonesian nation\") instead. Despite having widespread influence in the archipelago, ethnic Malay is only recognised as one of myriad Indonesian ethnic groups, which enjoy equal status with other Indonesians such as Javanese, Sundanese, Minang, Dayak, Chinese Indonesian, Ambonese and Papuan.\n\nDespite being the source of the Indonesian national language, Malay itself has been degraded as a mere local dialect in Sumatra, equal in status with Minangkabau, Acehnese and Batak languages. Compared to local Malay dialects in Sumatra, Indonesian language develop further which absorbs rich terminology and vocabulary from other Indonesian native languages, also rich variations of local dialects across Indonesia.\n\nDespite enjoying the status as overwhelming majority, Islam is recognized just as one among six official religions recognized in Indonesia; together with Protestantism, Catholicism, Hinduism, Buddhism and Confucianism. There is also no legal law, apart from family and peer pressure, to restrict Malay Indonesians to Islam. The strength of nationalist sentiments, rapidly progressing democracy, the destruction of the sultanates, and rampant Javanisation, ushered in a prolonged period of Malay political acquiescence, significantly reducing the momentum of Malayisation in Indonesia.\n\nThe strong influence of Malaysia in religious education has involved a degree of Malayisation among the Cham community in Cambodia, including the wearing of Malay dress and the study of the Malay language. The many thousands of Chams who were allowed into Malaysia as refugees from the war in Indochina tended to be referred to by Malays in Malaysia as \"Melayu Champa\" (\"Champa Malays\") or \"Melayu Kemboja\" (\"Cambodian Malays\"). Another community in Cambodia, the Chvea who tend to live in villages in the southern region of Kampot, are a separate community from the Chams, who have illustrious historic roots in Vietnam. The Khmer-speaking Chvea are distinct from the Cham, and preferred to be called as 'Khmer Islam', so as not to draw attention to their foreignness. Nevertheless, they use Malay language religious materials, write in the Jawi script, and many also speak Malay. Both Chvea and Cham have in recent years been drawn into pan-Malay conferences and networks promoted primarily by Malaysia.\n\nThere is a sizeable Malay community in Sri Lanka, descended from soldiers, convicts, and political exiles brought from Dutch and British colonies of East Indies and Malaya. The Sri Lankan Creole Malay varieties spoken by the community, are currently endangered as they are no longer spoken by the younger generation. However, in recent years, there are efforts in sharpening the sense of Malay identity by promoting the usage of 'standard Malay' language. This move was ideologically favoured by the urban segment of the community as it enables them to feel linked to the larger Malay groups in Southeast Asia. The community's effort to teach standard Malay to its members is largely aided by the Malaysian government through its high commission in Colombo. The high commission conducted courses in standard Malay, exclusively for members of the Malay community, and those who fared best were trained as language teachers in Malaysia. They were then expected to teach 'standard' Malay to their respective communities in Sri Lanka. These initiatives were welcomed and appreciated by the community. The language programmes and trips to Malaysia were made possible through the offices of the \"Gabungan Persatuan Penulis Nasional\" (GAPENA - the Federation of National Writers' Association of Malaysia). The Malays of Sri Lanka are constantly wooed by the Malaysian government, which chose to conduct the second GAPENA conference in Colombo in 1985, arranges periodic visits by representatives of the Malaysian government to the Malay Club in Colombo where grants are given for various community projects, and finances occasional trips to Malaysia for members of the community to attend conferences and seminars at the expense of the Malaysian state. The Indonesian government, however, does not seem to have similar aggressive efforts through its embassy in Colombo. As a result, although the Sri Lankan Malays are predominantly of Indonesian origins (especially Javanese), an attempt by a Sri Lanka 'Indonesian' Organization to reconstitute them as 'Indonesians', was declined.\n\n"}
{"id": "21820277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21820277", "title": "Mehrangate", "text": "Mehrangate\n\nThe Mehrangate, also known as the Mehran bank scandal, was a major political scandal that took place in the first administration of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in 1990.\n\nThe active-duty army officers and ISI agents engaged in conspiring against the election campaign of Benazir Bhutto by having it oversaw the campaign funding of taxpayers's money to the Islamic Democratic Alliance (IDA) under Nawaz Sharif during the nationwide elections held in 1990. From the official accounts of the Ministry of Defence (MoD), the taxpayers funding was directed and transfer to the conservative politicians to compete with the Pakistan Peoples Party, which was much organized at that time. \n\nThe nature of the Sharif-Beg collusion was discovered by J. Ashraf Qazi, then-Director ISI, who wanted to move the taxpayers' funds into another account but the banks failed to meet the requests, leading the new director of opening the investigation on missing funds. With media investigation in this matter further grew, the scandal became public with Asghar Khan filing a lawsuit at the Supreme Court of Pakistan against the IDA and the Pakistan Peoples Party in 1994. The case hearings and investigations went on for several years until 2012 when the Supreme Court of Pakistan eventually found Nawaz Sharif, Aslam Beg, Asad Durrani, bankers, and other conservative politicians from the PML(N) responsible and guilty of their acts. \n\nAfter the exposure of the first scandal by the Intelligence Bureau (IB) in 1989, President Ghulam Ishaq Khan eventually revoked his constitutional reserve powers that dismissed the first administration of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, charging the Benazir's administration of nepotism, political corruption, poor economic growth, law and order, and foreign affairs, in 1990. \n\nAfter the Election Commission (ECP) announced the timeline schedule of nationwide general elections, the ISI methodically and systematically released taxpayer's funds to the IDA's conservative politicians. The authorization for thethe taxpayer's funds was came from Lt-Gen. Asad Durrani, then-Director ISI, who enjoyed the support from President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and, allegedly Gen. Beg, the army chief at that time. During this time, the monetary embezzlement took place was reported around of the sum of ₨. 5.6Bn (approx. € 160 million at that time), and US$ 39 million was later additionally deposited in the intelligence funds.\n\nInitiated by Pakistan Army's Chief of Army Staff General Mirza Aslam Beg with the alleged support of President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, payments of up to PKR 140 million were made by the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Director-General Lieutenant-General Asad Durrani via the owner of Mehran Bank, Yunus Habib. Intelligence funds were deposited in Mehran bank in 1992 propping up what was an insolvent bank as a favor to its owner's for help in loaning money to the Inter-Services Intelligence in 1990 that was used in the creation of the right wing alliance Islami Jamhoori Ittehad (IJI) and bankrolling the campaigns of many opponents of the PPP.\n\nThe scandal subsequently broke after the new ISI Director-General Lieutenant-General Javed Ashraf Qazi decided to transfer the intelligence fund back to state owned banks as per official rules. Mehran Bank was unable to return the money due to its poor financial state and collapsed. It was later discovered that large sums had been siphoned off to 39 fictitious parties.\n\nIn 1995, Mehran Bank was amalgamated with the National Bank and in 1996 the NBP had to make full provision for Mehran's liabilities which resulted in a net loss that year to the bank of Rs 1.260 billion.\n\nYunus Habib was arrested on 7 April 1994 for misappropriation in the sale proceeds of the Dollar Bearer Certificates. On Dec 14, 1995, Younus Habib was convicted of fraud and embezzlement and given a sentence of 10 years rigorous imprisonment by the Special Court for Offences in Banks in Sindh. On April 20, 1994, giving details about the payments made by Habib to generals, politicians and political parties, the then Interior Minister, Naseerullah Babar, told the National Assembly that the main beneficiary of his largess was former army chief General Mirza Aslam Beg who received Rs140 million.\n\nIn March 2012, Pakistan's Supreme Court summoned Younis Habib, (Mirza Aslam Beg), and Asad Durrani to testify in response to a lawsuit filed by Air Marshall Asghar Khan in 1996. On 19 October 2012, the Supreme Court tribunal found Beg and Durrani guilty of violating the Constitution for their roles in the bribery. Beg has evaded testifying before the court, arguing his constitutional rights were violated by the court's finding before he could testify.\n\n"}
{"id": "14705685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14705685", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Poland)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Poland)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of the Republic of Poland () was formed on October 1999 from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy of Poland; the ministry can trace its history to 1944.\n\nThe Ministry's 1999 incarnation was brought about because development of rural regions was Poland's greatest political, economic, and social challenge that was uncontested by both coalition and opposition politicians.\n\nThe ministry is concerned with various aspects of Polish agriculture and improving its rural areas.\n\nThe current minister is Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.\n\n"}
{"id": "29555118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29555118", "title": "Ministry of Healthcare (Azerbaijan)", "text": "Ministry of Healthcare (Azerbaijan)\n\nThe Ministry of Healthcare of Azerbaijan Republic, also known as Ministry of Health of Azerbaijan Republic () is a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Azerbaijan in charge of regulating the healthcare system in Azerbaijan Republic. The ministry is headed by Ogtay Shiraliyev.\n\nThe Ministry of Healthcare was established on June 17, 1918 by the decree of Council of Ministers of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic led by Fatali Khan Khoyski. The first appointed minister was Khudadat Rafibeyli, who had graduated from Kharkov University in 1903 and was the most experienced surgeon in the country at the time.\nThe ministry consisted of five departments, including city healthcare department, healthcare statistics, therapy, rural healthcare and veterinary offices. The medical care was provided to the population free of charge while the authorities built new hospitals, laboratories, medicine wearhouses and purchased medical equipment.\nThroughout the 23-month-long existence of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic, 33 hospitals operated in Azerbaijani provinces with each having 1 doctor, 2 paramedics, 1 gynecologist and one nurse conducting vaccinations. According to statistics, there was only one doctor per every 75,000 citizens. Due to the shortage, the Azerbaijani parliament included building of 35 new hospitals and 56 paramedical office in 1920 fiscal budget committing AZN 43,321,950. During the Soviet rule of Azerbaijan, new hospitals and pharmacies were built. In 1960-70s, the medical sector was enhanced and new ambulance services opened for public.\nThe ministry today operates under statute signed by President Heydar Aliyev on December 29, 1998.\n\nMain functions of the ministry are organization and regulation of healthcare system in the country to provide sufficient medical care to the population; preparation and implementation of state healthcare programs; conduct activities for improvement of services by medical companies in both state and private sector; regulation of sanitary-epidemiology stations in the country; preparation of programs on parenthood and family planning; provision of medical drugs, bactereological and antivirus products to hospitals; regulations and development of pharmacy offices networks; research and development of medical equipment manufacturing; prevention of dangerous diseases in the country and so forth.\n\n"}
{"id": "40818585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40818585", "title": "Mossawa Center", "text": "Mossawa Center\n\nThe Mossawa Center was established in 1997 as a civil society organization to promote equality for Arab citizens in Israel. In Arabic, \"mossawa\" means \"equality\". The organization works to promote the social, economic, cultural, and political rights of the Arab minority living in Israel.\n\nArab citizens have been left behind in the development of the Israeli state. Mossawa monitors the State Budget and prepares reports demonstrating the discrimination against Arabs implicit in the distribution of services.\n\nThe Mossawa Center lobbies the Knesset to increase budget allocations to the Arab community in Israel. In 2016, Mossawa director Jafar Farah met with members of the Knesset and held a conference with the Knesset Finance Committee to increase budgets for education, welfare, public transportation, and health services in the Arab community.\n\nThe Mossawa Center partners with and advocates for the needs of Arab localities in Israel. At the organization’s annual Conference on the Legal Status of Arab Citizens of Israel in 2016, the Mossawa Center recognized Al-Araqeeb, an unrecognized Bedouin village in the Negev Desert, with an “Unsung Hero Award” presented by Martin Luther King III. Mossawa also honored Jabir Asaqla, Head of Graduate Programs at the Mandel Center for Leadership in the North, and Nabila Espanioly, founder of Al-Tufula Pedagogic Center.\n\nIn September 2015, Mossawa helped to organize a student strike in advance of the start of the school year over government discrimination in terms of providing budgets to meet the needs of Arab citizens of Israel. Jafar Farah reportedly explained, “We want the government to take responsibility for the future of Arab citizens of Israel because we pay taxes like everyone else.”\n\nMossawa takes on legal cases supporting the Arab minority as in the case of the unrecognized neighborhood, Wadi Suya'h, in Haifa. Mossawa joined other organizations in those arrested for demonstrating against the Prawer-Begin Plan in representing the Arab town of Sakhneen on July 15, 2013.\n\nThe Mossawa Center frequently advocates in the Knesset for greater budget allocations to the Arab community in Israel. Mossawa has been critical of Government Resolution 922, which was intended to close gaps between the Arab and Jewish sectors in Israel. The Mossawa Center argued that Government Resolution 922 was insufficient to close gaps in education, welfare, health, and other issues.\n\nIn 2016, the Mossawa Center argued that the so-called “NGO law” was detrimental to Arab organizations’ advocacy efforts in Israel and would disproportionately affect organizations sympathetic to Palestinians.\n\nMossawa denounced legislation in 2010, which would require that immigrants recognize Israel as a Jewish state, noting that this legislation would disproportionately affect Arabs and would threaten Israel’s democratic character.\n\nMossawa also works closely with youth. The Mossawa Center has hosted camps for international youth come to visit andvolunteer in local communities, and learn about Palestinian culture, customs, and heritage. \n"}
{"id": "1104112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1104112", "title": "National Debate Tournament", "text": "National Debate Tournament\n\nThe National Debate Tournament is one of the national championships for collegiate policy debate, public forum debate, Lincoln-Douglas debate, and other events in the United States. The tournament is sponsored by the American Forensic Association with the Ford Motor Company Fund.\n\nThe National Debate Tournament (NDT) began in 1947 at the United States Military Academy at West Point. Twenty-nine schools competed at the first NDT debating: \"Resolved: That labor should be given a direct share in the management of industry\". It remained at West Point through 1966, at which time the Tournament Director met with the district chairs and advised them that at the tournament banquet of the Military Academy's decision to discontinue hosting the NDT in the ensuing years in part because of the increased demands on space and money that the United States' growing involvement in the Vietnam War was placing on the Academy. \n\nSince then the tournament has moved to different member schools each year and only three schools have hosted it twice.\n\nIn the first NDT, teams were nominated by committees from their district. This was soon replaced with district qualifying tournaments. Eight, post district tournament, \"second round\" at-large bids were awarded beginning in 1968 and continuing through 1970, enlarging the field to 44 teams, and two of these second round selections \"cleared\", or finished in the top sixteen in the preliminary rounds, in 1968, three cleared in 1969 and four of the eight post district tournament qualifiers cleared in 1970.\n\nPrior to 1970, a school could only send one team to the NDT, but the tournament committee relented to pressure from some of the more successful programs and a total of eight schools sent two teams to the 1970 National Debate Tournament that year. The winner of that tournament, designated Kansas \"B\", would not have been eligible to participate if the one team per school rule had remained in force.\n\nIn 1971, the format was amended to assign seventeen at large bids prior to district qualifying tournaments followed by the selection of an additional 27 teams by the district tournaments and another eight in a second at large selection round, enlarging the field to 52 teams. Ten regular season tournaments were designated to be \"qualifying tournaments\", such that winning one earned that team an automatic NDT berth, and the remainder of the first at-large round teams were selected by vote of the selection committee. That format lasted for just two years.\n\nStarting in 1973 and continuing to the present, sixteen at large bids are awarded to teams based on records prior to the district tournament selections, and additional at-large bids are awarded after the district qualifying tournaments. The field was enlarged to 62 teams in 1973 and stayed that size until 1987, when it was enlarged to include 74 teams, and it then varied in size from 72 to 78 teams over the next decade.\n\nSince 1992, a limited number of schools, currently six, have been allowed to send a third team.\n\nMutual preference judging (MPJ) is a relatively recent addition to the NDT. Under MPJ, each debate team ranks the judging pool according to their preferences and judges are selected such that both teams prefer the chosen judge equally (if possible). Attempts are made to place as many mutual \"1\"s (the highest rating) in rounds, with preference given to the teams with the best record.\n\nCurrently, selection of the 78 teams participating at the NDT involves a three stage process. First, the national committee selects 16 teams and awards them a First Round At-Large Bid. These teams have been ranked by their seasonal performance to have been the top debate teams in the nation. The national committee then apportions 46 bids to each of the nine NDT Districts. Each district is free to decide how these bids will be awarded to teams within each district. Most, although not all, districts decide to hold a district tournament, where the top teams will receive a bid. The final and third step for qualification is the Second Round At-Large Bid. Similar to a First Round Bid, the national committee selects the top 16 teams not already qualified to fill out the field for the NDT. Although in some cases, these final 16 teams may not be the true best 16 teams not already qualified to the tournament. The NDT has a standing rule stating a school cannot qualify more than two teams to the tournament, with the exception of at most six schools per year, who are allowed to qualify a third team, if the third team in question has shown merit for selection.\n\n\nWake Forest University maintains a list of the past resolutions used at the National Debate Tournament. \n"}
{"id": "51400606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51400606", "title": "Online Justice Journeys (Rechtwijzer or MyLawBC)", "text": "Online Justice Journeys (Rechtwijzer or MyLawBC)\n\nOnline Justice (OJ or Rechtwijzer or MyLawBC) is an online dispute resolution (ODR) platform. The OJ technology was the first ODR distributor to succeed in adapting ODR for relation disputes like divorce and landlord-tenant issues.\n\nOJ's first application was the Dutch Rechtwijzer in 2007. The founding organisation of the OJ technology - HiiL - developed it in conjunction with the Dutch Legal Aid Board, Ministry of Security and Justice, and Modria. Earlier versions were developed at Tilburg University under the leadership of Corry van Zeeland. Later, OJ director Jin Ho Verdonschot, together with Maurits Barendrecht, who is the research director at HiiL, designed the current Rechtwijzer and OJ technology - through a co-creation process with a broad group of judges, lawyers, mediators, social psychologists, business model experts, software developers, UI designers, and policy makers.\n\nOJ technology current powers platforms for divorce in the Netherlands (Rechtwijzer with the Dutch Legal Aid Board), British Columbia (MyLawBC with the Legal Services Society of BC) and the United Kingdom (with Relate). Additionally, there is a landlord-tenant disputes and a debts restructuring version running in the Netherlands.\n\nThe process in all the OJ platforms has three stages with two main components. First, the optional diagnosis, which is a guided pathway to information and advice to those considering separation. Then there is the mandatory intake, where a series of questions are answered to establish the needs, interests and first thoughts, in terms of solutions, for both parties. This is followed by the mandatory dialogue, where both parties collaborate on model solutions step by step to complete their agreement. There is the optional help phase, where any of the two parties can request mediation or adjudication services. Last, is the mandatory review, which is done by a certified legal professional to establish the fairness of the agreement.\n\n"}
{"id": "52237832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52237832", "title": "Pantsuit Nation", "text": "Pantsuit Nation\n\nPantsuit Nation is a private Facebook group and Twitter hashtag used to rally Hillary Clinton supporters during her 2016 presidential campaign in the United States. The group is not affiliated with a political party, but its symbol, the pantsuit, was used as a metonym for Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign – similarly to how red-colored hats were used for the campaign of her opponent, Donald Trump.\n\nMembers of the group focus on immigration reform, racial justice, religious freedom, and women's reproductive rights. During the November 2016 U.S. presidential election, the group had 2.9 million members and has raised up to $170,000 for the Clinton campaign. Currently, the group has nearly 4 million active members.\n\nOn 20 October 2016, Libby Chamberlain, a private resident of Brooklyn, Maine, created Pantsuit Nation, an invite-only Facebook group to follow the third presidential debate. Chamberlain graduated from Yale University in 2006. A mother of two, she previously worked for an environmental non-profit; and as a college and career counselor at a high school in Maine. Chamberlain started Pantsuit Nation in an effort to encourage a few of her Facebook friends to wear pantsuits to honor Clinton's trademark campaign garb and get to the voting polls in support of the nation's first female presidential candidate nominated by a major party. She considered Clinton and her pantsuits to be an emblem of the historic effort towards equal rights for women. Pantsuit Nation began with only 30 members, but gained traction quickly, growing to 24,000 members overnight and to 2.9 million by 8 November, 2016. \n\nOn 8 November, 2016, the Clinton campaign's digital manager personally thanked Pantsuit Nation for its support. When Clinton did not win the 2016 Presidential Election, she too thanked the group's army of supporters in her concession speech and encouraged them to voice their opinions proudly and publicly, outside the realm of a secret group. After the election, Pantsuit Nation inspired spinoffs across the country, including Alabama Together, a group in Auburn, Alabama, one of the communities that were rocked in 2017 by visits from white supremacists and Nazi-sympathizers.Pantsuit Nation consisted of people of different age groups, ethnicities, and political alliances. The group started as a space for members to share stories and pictures for their support of Clinton but has since transformed to encompass a wider range of progressive, anti-Trump subject matter. Group members share in detail their experiences as women, members of the LGBTQ community, immigrants, racial minorities, and religious minorities. \n\nThe Trump administration's actions against transgender individuals and immigrants, particularly his announcement to end the DACA program, have sparked flurries of activity on the page. Members have felt emboldened and empowered by the community Pantsuit Nation provides. Posts to the group contain fan art from the campaign, including its logos and slogans on clothes, signs, bodies, and food.\n\nThe leadership of Pantsuit Nation consists of five executive members and 80 volunteer moderators as well as chapter leaders. Libby Chamberlain is Director of Content, Cortney Tunis is Executive Director, Cat Plein is Chief Operating Officer, Grace Caldara is Director of Engagement, and Kimma Barry is Director of Community Relations. \n\nAfter the success of the Facebook group, organizers expanded the Pantsuit Nation brand to include regional chapters, whose mission is to promote story-driven activism. The chapters give members the chance to meet like-minded activists in person, so they can share resources and work together to stimulate social change. There are chapters in Alaska, California, Northern Colorado, Connecticut, Washington D.C., Central Florida, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Boston, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Texas, Virginia, Washington, Milwaukee, and Israel. \n\nAfter the election, Chamberlain received a book deal to publish content from the group. The book \"Pantsuit Nation\" was published May 9, 2017, by Flatiron Books and is a compilation of stories and photos that document the experiences of Clinton supporters before, during, and after the election. Some believe that Chamberlain is turning Pantsuit Nation from a space of grieving and healing into a branding machine, used to further her own profit-seeking ambitions. Before Chamberlain announced on the Pantsuit Nation Facebook group that she had secured a book deal using the group's name, \"The New York Times\" released an article explaining the book's projected timeline. Chamberlain did not disclose details about where the profits of the book will go, nor address the breach in privacy of the group members who shared their stories until pressured to do so. Many people subsequently accused Chamberlain of cashing in on the struggles of the group's members. \n\nChamberlain subsequently said in a Facebook post that the book's proceeds will be donated to nonprofit organizations connected to Pantsuit Nation's mission. Examples of such organizations the ACLU, Southern Poverty Law Center, and Planned Parenthood. She also stated that participation in the book is voluntary. She said the book is meant to illustrate the diversity that the group represents – diversity of experiences, race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, and ability. Nonetheless, many members of the group felt as though their sanctuary and private community was intruded upon. Some also believe the book is a 2016 time capsule, preventing the Democratic Party and Clinton supporters from moving on from the tough loss and supporting a potential new presidential candidate.\n\nIn addition, critics of Pantsuit Nation have argued that white women dominate the conversation in the group and members of racial minorities feel their voices are ignored, belittled, and overshadowed. They believe that white women are using the group as a way to feel \"woke\" without contributing to tangible social change. In response, Pantsuit Nation organizers released a statement in December 2016 reaffirming the group's commitment to ensuring that every voice is heard and respected and asking that white women be aware of their privilege by listening to the experiences of women of color. The leadership of Pantsuit Nation also changed, becoming more diverse and representing a broader range of perspectives, experiences, and identities.\n"}
{"id": "3114499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3114499", "title": "Personation", "text": "Personation\n\nPersonation (rather than \"im\"personation) is a primarily-legal term, meaning 'to assume the identity of another person with intent to deceive' . It is often used for the kind of voter fraud where an individual votes in an election, whilst pretending to be a different elector. It is also used when charging a person who portrays themselves as a police officer.\n\nPersonation appears as a crime in the Canadian Criminal Code with the meaning simply of impersonation.\n\nIn the U.S., the New York State Penal Law defines the crime of false personation as simply the act of pretending to be another, a Class B misdemeanor; those who assume the identity of another in order to further another crime can be charged with second-degree criminal impersonation, a Class A misdemeanor. Posing as a police officer for any reason, or as a physician in order to forge a prescription or otherwise obtain substances so controlled, is first-degree criminal impersonation, a Class E felony.\n\nMany jurisdictions allow electors to nominate an individual to vote on their behalf, often known as proxy voting. Whilst voting with an invalid proxy form could be considered personation, it is usual for an intent to deceive to be required for such an act to be considered criminal.\n\nPersonation is an offence in law in England and Wales: see English criminal law#Forgery, personation and cheating\n\n"}
{"id": "47214444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47214444", "title": "Pharmacy in the United Kingdom", "text": "Pharmacy in the United Kingdom\n\nPharmacy in the United Kingdom has been an integral part of the National Health Service since it was established in 1948. Unlike the rest of the NHS pharmacies are largely privately provided apart from those in hospitals, and even these are now often privately run.\n\nCommerce of drugs in United Kingdom was initially regulated by the Guild of Peppers since 1180, they were in charge of the assurance of the items that were. In 1345 some members of the Guilt of Peppers founded Worshipful Company of Grocers that operated until 1617, that was in charge of assurance of the quality of food and drugs, their role related drugs business was replaced by Worshipful Society of Apothecaries (one of the 110 Livery companies) that operated since 1617 and its members were in charge of train as apprentice for 7 years the future new members until they became free man and get the \"freedom\" of being apothecary's apprentices.\n\nSilvanus Bevan received 7 years of training and later he cofounded Allen & Hanburys in 1715 (that developed salbutamol in 1966 and now is part of GlaxoSmithKline).\n\nPharmaceutical Society of Great Britain was founded in 1841. The Pharmacy Act 1868 limited the sale of poisons and dangerous drugs to qualified pharmacists and druggists.\n\nThe advent of the NHS had an immediate beneficial effect on the pharmaceutical industry. In 1960 there were proposals that the private patients of general practitioners should be enabled to receive their drugs free on the health service, but they were not implemented.\n\nThe supply of drugs in the hospital service represented about one-tenth by value of the supply through the retail pharmaceutical service in 1965.\n\nPharmaceutical Society of Great Britain was replaced by Royal Pharmaceutical Society and General Pharmaceutical Council in September 2010.\n\nThere was a reduction of more than a quarter in the number of pharmacies in the community between 1963 and 1979. According to the Pharmaceutical Services Negotiating Committee at that time over 4,000 pharmacies in England and Wales dispensing less than 24,000 prescriptions per annum were losing money on NHS services.\n\nThe Health Survey for England 2016 showed that 48% of adults in the country had taken at least one prescribed medicine in the past week, and 24% had taken three or more. 10% were using antidepressants. A total of 1.1 billion prescriptions were dispensed in England in 2016 - 47% more than 2006.\n\nNHS pharmacies are governed and paid for their NHS work under a standard contract, which was modified in 2005. This modification enabled pharmacy contractors to be paid for Medicines Use Reviews conducted by pharmacists for people with multiple long term prescriptions. There are also New Medicine Services, which are intended for patients who have started on long term medication, such as asthma treatment.\n\nIn 2016 the government announced that the budget for pharmacy would be reduced by £170 million nationally from 2017 (£113 million in England) - its “share” of the £22 billion in savings required across the NHS. Under the new contract there will be a payment of £1.33 per prescribed item dispensed, but the flat rate establishment payment (around £25,000 per pharmacy) set up in 2005 will be reduced by 40% and is to be abolished. There will be a Pharmacy Access Scheme with monthly payments for the 1427 pharmacies more than a mile away from the next pharmacy. There will be additional quality incentives for:\n\nIn October 2017 the first payments to community pharmacies under the new quality payments scheme were made by NHS England. 90% of community pharmacies, 11,094 applied. 10,985 passed the qualifying criteria and received a payment. Future payments under the scheme are conditional on all pharmacy staff being able to send and receive email by the November review date. Pharmacists who have accessed Summary Care Records more than 100 times between two specific dates will also be eligible for a payment.\n\nThe NHS in Wales has a separate pharmacy contract. In April 2017 Vaughan Gething announced that there were \"no proposals to reduce investment in community pharmacy here in Wales\" as was happening in England. By 2020 Welsh pharmacists will have access to patients’ summary care records in order to help deliver the Welsh common ailment service. By March 2018 all the Welsh pharmacies with access to the Choose Pharmacy IT system will be able to access the Welsh GP record.\n\nThe Royal Pharmaceutical Society in Scotland called for the creation of a single electronic patient health record which pharmacists could access in October 2017. They said their members needed to have the same access to records as a GP or hospital consultant in order to provide safe treatment to people in the community.\n\nPharmacy First was launched in 2017. This scheme permits pharmacists to treat uncomplicated urinary tract infections in women and impetigo in children without a doctor's prescription. It also increases access for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease to medication-related advice and patient-centred medicine review.\n\nAntibiotic use is the highest in the UK, with prescribing rates in October 2017 being 30% higher than in England.\n\nIn rural areas GPs are permitted to dispense medication if there is not a pharmacy within a mile of the surgery. There are 1,290 dispensing practices across the UK serving 8.8 million patients in 2015. Many are members of the Dispensing Doctors' Association.\n\nNHS England is supporting initiatives to place pharmacists in GP practices in order to improve the management of medication for patients with long term conditions. About 420 million repeat prescriptions are generated in the UK each year — about 200 for each general practitioner each week. In the practice pharmacists can do more Medicine use reviews. By April 2017 there were plans for 1350 practices in England to have access to clinical pharmacists. It is intended to have 1,500 pharmacists in general practice by 2020. NHS England’s announced funding for 180 pharmacists and 60 technicians to work in care homes in March 2018.\n\nRetail pharmacies and pharmacists are regulated by the NHS, under the provisions of the Pharmacy Act 1954 and The National Health Service (Pharmaceutical Services) Regulations, which prevent new pharmacies being opened without permission. This was done by the Family Health Services Authority and then by Primary Care Trusts. Now regulation is by NHS England and its Pharmaceutical Services Regulations Committees.\nRetail as well as hospital pharmacies in England, Scotland and Wales are regulated by the General Pharmaceutical Council, In Northern Ireland by the PSNI.\n\nLocal Pharmaceutical Committees were established in every area in 1948. Each is a representative committee of persons providing pharmaceutical services as defined in Section 44 of the National Health Service Act 1977. Each committee has about 12 members. There are now about 80 in England.\n\n89% of the UK population live within a 20-minute walk of their local pharmacy. A majority of the population visit a pharmacy at least once every 28 days. In 2014 more than 1.1 billion prescription items were dispensed in England. This was 34.5 million more than in the previous 12 months and 378.4 million more than in 2004. The total net ingredient cost of prescribed items was £8.9 billion. 89.9% of all items dispensed in England were free of charge. In Scotland the total number of items dispensed in the community in 2014–2015 was 101.1 million with a net cost of £1.2bn.\n\nSince at least 1979 there have been proposals that pharmacists should develop their role of giving advice to the public. NHS England announced a pilot scheme in July 2015 for GP practices in England to employ around 300 pharmacists to provide clinical care and relieve pressure on GPs. They will monitor patients with long-term conditions, create medicine plans and provide advice and expertise on day-to-day medicines issues.\n\nIn London pharmacies are used to deliver Flu vaccination. In 2013/4 108,700 vaccinations were delivered by 1,089 pharmacies in the capital. Medicines Use Reviews in patients homes are delivered by pharmacists in Croydon.\n\nIn August 2015 it was announced that retail pharmacies would be given access to NHS patients Summary Care Records after a pilot of 140 pharmacies in Somerset, Northampton, North Derbyshire, Sheffield and West Yorkshire, demonstrated “significant benefits.” Pharmacists have to ask for a patient’s permission to view their record.\n\n"}
{"id": "23617393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23617393", "title": "Poundage quota", "text": "Poundage quota\n\nA poundage quota, also called a marketing quota, is a quantitative limit on the amount of a commodity that can be marketed under the provisions of a permanent law. Once a common feature of price support programs, this supply control mechanism ended with the quota buyouts for peanuts in 2002 and tobacco in 2004.\n\nMarketing quotas (or allotments) — Authorized by the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, these quotas (sometimes called poundage quotas) limit marketings of certain commodities. The marketing quota, which must be approved by at least two-thirds of the eligible producers voting in a referendum, is intended to ensure an adequate and normal supply of the commodity, and also ensure that production and supplies are not excessive. Growers who market in excess of their quotas pay penalties on the excess and are ineligible for government price-support loans. Quotas have been suspended for wheat, feed grains, and cotton since the 1960s. Rice quotas were abolished in 1981. Tobacco quotas ended after the 2004 crop (P.L. 108-357, Title VI). Authority for standby marketing allotments for domestically-produced sugar and crystalline fructose was mandated by the 1990 farm bill (P.L. 101-624), but eliminated by the 1996 farm bill (P.L. 104-127). The 2002 farm bill (P.L. 107-171) reintroduced marketing allotments for domestically-produced sugar under the modified sugar program. Marketing allotments are required to be in effect unless USDA projects sugar imports will be above 1.532 million short tons. \n"}
{"id": "40426902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40426902", "title": "Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act", "text": "Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act\n\nThe Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) is divided into 10 titles and contains provisions that became effective immediately, 90 days after enactment, and six months after enactment, as well as provisions phased in through to 2020. Below are some of the key provisions of the ACA. For simplicity, the amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 are integrated into this timeline.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuring the implementation of the law, there were interim regulations put in place for a specific type of employer-funded insurance, the so-called \"mini-med\" or limited-benefit plans, which are low-cost to employers who buy them for their employees, but cap coverage at a very low level. The waivers allowed employers to temporarily avoid the regulations ending annual and lifetime limits on coverage, and were put in place to encourage employers and insurers offering mini-med plans not to withdraw medical coverage before those regulations come into force, by which time small employers and individuals will be able to buy non-capped coverage through the exchanges. Employers were only granted a waiver if they could show that complying with the limit would mean a significant decrease in employees' benefits coverage or a significant increase in employees' premiums.\n\nBy January 26, 2011, HHS said it had granted a total of 733 waivers for 2011, covering 2.1 million people, or about 1% of the privately insured population. In June 2011, the Obama Administration announced that all applications for new waivers and renewals of existing ones had to be filed by September 22 of that year, and no new waivers would be approved after this date.\n\nThe limited-benefit plans were sometimes offered to low-paid and part-time workers, for example in fast food restaurants or purchased direct from an insurer. Most company-provided health insurance policies starting on or after September 23, 2010, and before September 23, 2011, may not set an annual coverage cap lower than $750,000, a lower limit that is raised in stages until 2014, by which time no insurance caps are allowed at all. By 2014, no health insurance, whether sold in the individual or group market, will be allowed to place an annual cap on coverage.\n\nAmong those receiving waivers were employers, large insurers, such as Aetna and Cigna, and union plans covering about one million employees. McDonald's, one of the employers that received a waiver, has 30,000 hourly employees whose plans have annual caps of $10,000. The waivers are issued for one year and can be reapplied for. Referring to the adjustments as \"a balancing act\", Nancy-Ann DeParle, director of the Office of Health Reform at the White House, said, \"The president wants to have a smooth glide path to 2014.\"\n\nOn July 2, 2013, the Obama Administration announced on the Treasury Department's website that it would delay the employer mandate for one year, under Proposed Regulations REG-138006-12 until 2015. In the statement, the Administration said that they were delaying implementation in order to meet two goals: \"First, it will allow us to consider ways to simplify the new reporting requirements consistent with the law. Second, it will provide time to adapt health coverage and reporting systems while employers are moving toward making health coverage affordable and accessible for their employees.\"\n\nThe announcement was met with strong criticism by some who claimed that the authority to delay the implementation of the law lay with Congress. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell argued that President Obama's authorization to delay the provision exceeded the limits of his executive power. House Republicans brought two bills to a vote to draw attention to the issue: The Authority for Mandate Delay Act; and the Fairness for American Families Act, which would apply the same delay to the individual mandate, arguing that the individual mandate should be treated the same way – an action which the Obama Administration opposes.\n\nConstitutional scholar Simon Lazarus countered critics, saying that the delay was a lawful discretion of Executive power: \"In effect, the Administration explains the delay as a sensible adjustment to phase-in enforcement, not a refusal to enforce… To be sure, the federal Administrative Procedure Act authorizes federal courts to compel agencies to initiate statutorily required actions that have been 'unreasonably delayed.' But courts have found delays to be unreasonable only in rare cases where, unlike this one, inaction had lasted for several years, and the recalcitrant agency could offer neither a persuasive excuse nor a credible end to its dithering.\" Critics of the House Republicans' comparison of the employer and individual mandate also pointed out that the two provisions are qualitatively different.\n\nIn August, another provision was delayed for a year: the premium caps on group plans. This was to give employers time to arrange new accounting systems for the premium caps, but the caps are still planned to take effect on schedule for insurance plans on the exchanges.\n\nOn 10 February 2014, the Treasury Department issued Treasury Decision 9655, which are final regulation, that it would delay the employer mandate until 2016 for employers with 50 to 99 workers. The Treasury Decision 9655 modifies Proposed Regulations REG-138006-12.\n\n"}
{"id": "12102450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12102450", "title": "Raspberry ketone", "text": "Raspberry ketone\n\nRaspberry ketone is a natural phenolic compound that is the primary aroma compound of red raspberries.\n\nRaspberry ketone occurs in a variety of fruits, including raspberries, cranberries, and blackberries. It is biosynthesized from coumaroyl-CoA. It can be extracted from the fruit, yielding about 1–4 mg per kg of raspberries.\n\nSince the natural abundance of raspberry ketone is very low, it is prepared industrially by a variety of methods from chemical intermediates. One of the ways this can be done is through a crossed aldol condensation followed by catalytic hydrogenation. First, acetone is condensed with 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde to form an α,β-unsaturated ketone. Then the alkene portion is reduced to the alkane. This two-step method produces raspberry ketone in 99% yield.\n\nRaspberry ketone is sometimes used in perfumery, in cosmetics, and as a food additive to impart a fruity odor. It is one of the most expensive natural flavor components used in the food industry. The natural compound can cost as much as $20,000 per kg. Synthetic raspberry ketone is cheaper, with estimates ranging from a couple of dollars per pound to one fifth of the cost of the natural product.\n\nAlthough products containing this compound are marketed for weight loss, there is no clinical evidence for this effect in humans.\n\nLittle is known about the long-term safety of raspberry ketone supplements, especially since little research has been done with humans. Because it is chemically related to the stimulant synephrine, there are some concerns about its safety. Toxicological models indicate a potential for cardiotoxic effects, as well as effects on reproduction and development. Furthermore, in many dietary supplements containing raspberry ketones, manufacturers add other ingredients such as caffeine which may have unsafe effects.\n\nIn 1965, the US Food and Drug Administration classified raspberry ketone as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) for the small quantities used to flavor foods. In the UK, raspberry ketone supplements are on the Food Standards Agency's unauthorized list.\n\n"}
{"id": "25682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25682", "title": "Red Army", "text": "Red Army\n\nThe Workers' and Peasants' Red Army (, \"Raboče-krestjjanskaja Krasnaja armija (RKKA)\"), frequently shortened to Red Army (, \"Krasnaja armija (KA)\"; also in critical literature and folklore of that epoch – Red Horde, Army of Work) was the army and the air force of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, and, after 1922, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The army was established immediately after the 1917 October Revolution (Red October or Bolshevik Revolution). The Bolsheviks raised an army to oppose the military confederations (especially the various groups collectively known as the White Army) of their adversaries during the Russian Civil War. Beginning in February 1946, the Red Army, along with the Soviet Navy, embodied the main component of the Soviet Armed Forces; taking the official name of \"Soviet Army\", until its dissolution in December 1991.\n\nThe Red Army is credited as being the decisive land force in the Allied victory in the European theatre of World War II, and its invasion of Manchuria contributed heavily to the ultimate unconditional surrender of Imperial Japan. During operations on the Eastern Front, it accounted for 75–80% of casualties the Wehrmacht and Waffen-SS suffered during the war and ultimately captured the Nazi German capital, Berlin.\nIn September 1917, Vladimir Lenin wrote: \"There is only one way to prevent the restoration of the police, and that is to create a people's militia and to fuse it with the army (the standing army to be replaced by the arming of the entire people).\" At the time, the Imperial Russian Army had started to collapse. Approximately 23% (about 19 million) of the male population of the Russian Empire were mobilized; however, most of them were not equipped with any weapons and had support roles such as maintaining the lines of communication and the base areas. The Tsarist general Nikolay Dukhonin estimated that there had been 2 million deserters, 1.8 million dead, 5 million wounded and 2 million prisoners. He estimated the remaining troops as numbering 10 million.\n\nWhile the Imperial Russian Army was being taken apart, \"it became apparent that the rag-tag Red Guard units and elements of the imperial army who had gone over the side of the Bolsheviks were quite inadequate to the task of defending the new government against external foes.\" Therefore, the Council of People's Commissars decided to form the Red Army on 28 January 1918. They envisioned a body \"formed from the class-conscious and best elements of the working classes.\" All citizens of the Russian republic aged 18 or older were eligible. Its role being the defense \"of the Soviet authority, the creation of a basis for the transformation of the standing army into a force deriving its strength from a nation in arms, and, furthermore, the creation of a basis for the support of the coming Socialist Revolution in Europe.\" Enlistment was conditional upon \"guarantees being given by a military or civil committee functioning within the territory of the Soviet Power, or by party or trade union committees or, in extreme cases, by two persons belonging to one of the above organizations.\" In the event of an entire unit wanting to join the Red Army, a \"collective guarantee and the affirmative vote of all its members would be necessary.\" Because the Red Army was composed mainly of peasants, the families of those who served were guaranteed rations and assistance with farm work. Some peasants who remained at home yearned to join the Army; men, along with some women, flooded the recruitment centres. If they were turned away they would collect scrap metal and prepare care-packages. In some cases the money they earned would go towards tanks for the Army.\n\nThe Council of People's Commissars appointed itself the supreme head of the Red Army, delegating command and administration of the army to the Commissariat for Military Affairs and the Special All-Russian College within this commissariat. Nikolai Krylenko was the supreme commander-in-chief, with Aleksandr Myasnikyan as deputy. Nikolai Podvoisky became the commissar for war, Pavel Dybenko, commissar for the fleet. Proshyan, Samoisky, Steinberg were also specified as people's commissars as well as Vladimir Bonch-Bruyevich from the Bureau of Commissars. At a joint meeting of Bolsheviks and Left Socialist-Revolutionaries, held on 22 February 1918, Krylenko remarked: \"We have no army. The demoralized soldiers are fleeing, panic-stricken, as soon as they see a German helmet appear on the horizon, abandoning their artillery, convoys and all war material to the triumphantly advancing enemy. The Red Guard units are brushed aside like flies. We have no power to stay the enemy; only an immediate signing of the peace treaty will save us from destruction.\"\n\nThe Russian Civil War (1917–1923) occurred in three periods:\n\nAt the start of the war, the Red Army consisted of 299 infantry regiments. Civil war intensified after Lenin dissolved the Russian Constituent Assembly (5–6 January 1918) and the Soviet government signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk (3 March 1918), removing Russia from the Great War. Free from international war, the Red Army confronted an internecine war against a loose alliance of anti-Communist forces, comprising the Revolutionary Insurrectionary Army of Ukraine, the \"Black Army\" led by Nestor Makhno, the anti-White and anti-Red Green armies, efforts to restore the defeated Provisional Government, monarchists, but mainly the White Movement of several different anti-socialist military confederations. \"Red Army Day\", 23 February 1918, has a two-fold historical significance: it was the first day of drafting recruits (in Petrograd and Moscow), and the first day of combat against the occupying Imperial German Army.\n\nOn 6 September 1918 the Bolshevik militias consolidated under the supreme command of the Revolutionary Military Council of the Republic (). The first Chairman was Leon Trotsky, and the first commander-in-chief was Jukums Vācietis from the Latvian Riflemen; in July 1919 he was replaced by Sergey Kamenev. Soon afterwards Trotsky established the GRU (military intelligence) to provide political and military intelligence to Red Army commanders. Trotsky founded the Red Army with an initial Red Guard organization, and a core soldiery of Red Guard militiamen and Chekist secret police. Conscription began in June 1918, and opposition to it was violently suppressed. To control the multi-ethnic and multi-cultural Red Army soldiery, the Cheka operated special punitive brigades which suppressed anti-communists, deserters, and \"enemies of the state\". Wartime pragmatism allowed the recruitment of ex-Tsarist officers and sergeants (non-commissioned officers, NCOs) into the Red Army. Lev Glezarov's special commission recruited and screened them. By mid-August 1920 the Red Army's former Tsarist personnel included 48,000 officers, 10,300 administrators, and 214,000 NCOs. At the civil war's start, ex-Tsarists made up 75% of the Red Army officer-corps, who were employed as military specialists (\"voenspetsy\", ). The Bolsheviks occasionally enforced the loyalty of such recruits by holding their families as hostages. At war's end in 1922, ex-Tsarists constituted 83% of the Red Army's divisional and corps commanders.\n\nThe Red Army used special regiments for ethnic minorities, such as the Dungan Cavalry Regiment commanded by the Dungan Magaza Masanchi.\nThe Red Army also co-operated with armed Bolshevik Party-oriented volunteer units, the Части особого назначения – ЧОН (special task units – \"chasti osobogo naznacheniya\" – or ChON) from 1919 to 1925.\n\nThe slogan \"exhortation, organization, and reprisals\" expressed the discipline and motivation which helped ensure the Red Army's tactical and strategic success. On campaign, the attached Cheka Special Punitive Brigades conducted summary field courts-martial and executions of deserters and slackers. Under Commissar Jānis K. Bērziņš the Special Punitive Brigades took hostages from the villages of deserters to compel their surrender; one in ten of those returning was executed. The same tactic also suppressed peasant rebellions in areas controlled by the Red Army, the biggest of these being the Tambov Rebellion. The Soviets enforced the loyalty of the various political, ethnic, and national groups in the Red Army through political commissars attached at the brigade and regimental levels. The commissars also had the task of spying on commanders for political incorrectness. Political commissars whose Chekist detachments retreated or broke in the face of the enemy earned the death penalty. In August 1918, Trotsky authorized General Mikhail Tukhachevsky to place blocking units behind politically unreliable Red Army units, to shoot anyone who retreated without permission. In 1942, during the Great Patriotic War (1941–1945) Joseph Stalin reintroduced the blocking policy. He also introduced penal battalions.\n\nThe Red Army controlled by the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic invaded and annexed non-Russian lands helping to create the Soviet Union.\n\nThe Soviet westward offensive of 1918–19 occurred at the same time as the general Soviet move into the areas abandoned by the Ober Ost garrisons. This merged into the 1919–1921 Polish–Soviet War, in which the Red Army reached central Poland in 1920, but then suffered a defeat there, which put an end to the war. During the Polish Campaign the Red Army numbered some 6.5 million men, many of whom the Army had difficulty supporting, around 581,000 in the two operational fronts, western and southwestern. Around 2.5 million men and women were immobilized in the interior as part of reserve armies.\n\nThe XI Congress of the Russian Communist Party (Bolsheviks) (RCP (b)) adopted a resolution on the strengthening of the Red Army. It decided to establish strictly organized military, educational and economic conditions in the army. However, it was recognized that an army of 1,600,000 would be burdensome. By the end of 1922, after the Congress, the Party Central Committee decided to reduce the Red Army to 800,000. This reduction necessitated the reorganization of the Red Army's structure. The supreme military unit became corps of two or three divisions. Divisions consisted of three regiments. Brigades as independent units were abolished. The formation of departments' rifle corps began.\n\nAfter four years of warfare, the Red Army's defeat of Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel in the south in 1920\nallowed the foundation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in December 1922. Historian John Erickson sees 1 February 1924, when Mikhail Frunze became head of the Red Army staff, as marking the ascent of the general staff, which came to dominate Soviet military planning and operations. By 1 October 1924 the Red Army's strength had diminished to 530,000. The list of Soviet Union divisions 1917–1945 details the formations of the Red Army in that time.\n\nIn the late 1920s and throughout the 1930s, Soviet military theoreticians - led by Marshal Mikhail Tukhachevsky - developed the deep-operations doctrine, a direct consequence of their experiences in the Polish-Soviet War and in the Russian Civil War. To achieve victory, deep operations envisage simultaneous corps- and army-size unit maneuvers of simultaneous parallel attacks throughout the depth of the enemy's ground forces, inducing catastrophic defensive failure. The deep-battle doctrine relies upon aviation and armor advances with the expectation that maneuver warfare offers quick, efficient, and decisive victory. Marshal Tukhachevsky said that aerial warfare must be \"employed against targets beyond the range of infantry, artillery, and other arms. For maximum tactical effect aircraft should be employed en masse, concentrated in time and space, against targets of the highest tactical importance.\"\n\nRed Army deep operations found their first formal expression in the 1929 Field Regulations, and became codified in the 1936 Provisional Field Regulations (PU-36). The Great Purge of 1937–1939 and the Purge of 1940–1942 removed many leading officers from the Red Army, including Tukhachevsky himself and many of his followers, and the doctrine was abandoned. Thus at the Battle of Lake Khasan in 1938 and in the Battle of Khalkhin Gol in 1939 (major border clashes with the Imperial Japanese Army), the doctrine was not used. Only in the Second World War did deep operations come into play.\n\nThe Red army was involved in armed conflicts in the Republic of China during the Sino-Soviet conflict (1929), the Soviet Invasion of Xinjiang (1934), when it was assisted by White Russian forces, and the Xinjiang rebellion (1937). The Red Army achieved its objectives; it maintained effective control over the Manchurian Chinese Eastern Railway, and successfully installed a pro-Soviet regime in Xinjiang.\n\nThe Winter War (, , ) was a war between the Soviet Union and Finland. It began with a Soviet offensive on 30 November 1939—three months after the start of World War II and the Soviet invasion of Poland, and ended on 13 March 1940 with the Moscow Peace Treaty. The League of Nations deemed the attack illegal and expelled the Soviet Union on 14 December 1939.\n\nThe Soviet forces led by Semyon Timoshenko had three times as many soldiers as the Finns, thirty times as many aircraft, and a hundred times as many tanks. The Red Army, however, had been crippled by Soviet leader Joseph Stalin's Great Purge of 1937, reducing the army's morale and efficiency shortly before the outbreak of the fighting. With over 30,000 of its army officers executed or imprisoned, most of whom were from the highest ranks, the Red Army in 1939 had many inexperienced senior officers. Because of these factors, and high commitment and morale in the Finnish forces, Finland was able to resist the Soviet invasion for much longer than the Soviets expected. Finnish forces inflicted stunning losses on the Red Army for the first three months of the war while suffering very few losses themselves.\n\nHostilities ceased in March 1940 with the signing of the Moscow Peace Treaty. Finland ceded 11% of its pre-war territory and 30% of its economic assets to the Soviet Union. Soviet losses on the front were heavy, and the country's international reputation suffered. The Soviet forces did not accomplish their objective of the total conquest of Finland but conquered significant territory along Lake Ladoga, Petsamo and Salla. The Finns retained their sovereignty and improved their international reputation, which bolstered their morale in the Continuation War.\n\nIn accordance with the Soviet-Nazi Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact of 23 August 1939, the Red Army invaded Poland on 17 September 1939, after the Nazi invasion on 1 September 1939. On 30 November the Red Army also attacked Finland, in the Winter War of 1939–1940. By autumn 1940, after conquering its portion of Poland, the Third Reich shared an extensive border with USSR, with whom it remained neutrally bound by their non-aggression pact and trade agreements. Another consequence of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was the Soviet occupation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina, carried out by the Southern Front in June–July 1940 and Soviet occupation of the Baltic states (1940). These conquests also added to the border the Soviet Union shared with Nazi-controlled areas. For Adolf Hitler, the circumstance was no dilemma, because the \"Drang nach Osten\" (\"Drive towards the East\") policy secretly remained in force, culminating on 18 December 1940 with \"Directive No. 21, Operation Barbarossa\", approved on 3 February 1941, and scheduled for mid-May 1941.\n\nWhen Germany invaded the Soviet Union in June 1941, in Operation Barbarossa, the Red Army's ground forces had 303 divisions and 22 separate brigades (6.8 million soldiers), including 166 divisions and 9 brigades (3.2 million soldiers) garrisoned in the western military districts. The Axis forces deployed on the Eastern Front consisted of 181 divisions and 18 brigades (3 million soldiers). Three Fronts, the Northwestern, Western, and Southwestern conducted the defense of the western borders of the USSR. In the first weeks of the Great Patriotic War the Wehrmacht defeated many Red Army units. The Red Army lost millions of men as prisoners and lost much of its pre-war matériel. Stalin increased mobilization, and by 1 August 1941, despite 46 divisions lost in combat, the Red Army's strength was 401 divisions.\n\nThe Soviet forces were apparently unprepared despite numerous warnings from a variety of sources. They suffered much damage in the field because of mediocre officers, partial mobilization, and an incomplete reorganization. The hasty pre-war forces expansion and the over-promotion of inexperienced officers (owing to the purging of experienced officers) favored the Wehrmacht in combat. The Axis's numeric superiority rendered the combatants' divisional strength approximately equal. A generation of Soviet commanders (notably Georgy Zhukov) learned from the defeats, and Soviet victories in the Battle of Moscow, at Stalingrad, Kursk and later in Operation Bagration proved decisive.\n\nIn 1941, the Soviet government raised the bloodied Red Army's \"esprit de corps\" with propaganda stressing the defense of Motherland and nation, employing historic exemplars of Russian courage and bravery against foreign aggressors. The anti-Nazi \"Great Patriotic War\" was conflated with the Patriotic War of 1812 against Napoleon, and historical Russian military heroes, such as Alexander Nevski and Mikhail Kutuzov, appeared. Repression of the Russian Orthodox Church temporarily ceased, and priests revived the tradition of blessing arms before battle.\n\nTo encourage the initiative of Red Army commanders, the CPSU temporarily abolished political commissars, reintroduced formal military ranks and decorations, and introduced the Guards unit concept. Exceptionally heroic or high-performing units earned the Guards title (for example 1st Guards Special Rifle Corps, 6th Guards Tank Army), an elite designation denoting superior training, materiel, and pay. Punishment also was used; slackers, malingerers, those avoiding combat with self-inflicted wounds cowards, thieves, and deserters were disciplined with beatings, demotions, undesirable/dangerous duties, and summary execution by NKVD punitive detachments.\nAt the same time, the \"osobist\" (NKVD military counter-intelligence officers) became a key Red Army figure with the power to condemn to death and to spare the life of any soldier and (almost any) officer of the unit to which he was attached. In 1942, Stalin established the penal battalions composed of \"gulag\" inmates, Soviet PoWs, disgraced soldiers, and deserters, for hazardous front-line duty as \"tramplers\" clearing Nazi minefields, et cetera. Given the dangers, the maximum sentence was three months. Likewise, the Soviet treatment of Red Army personnel captured by the Wehrmacht was especially harsh. A 1941 Stalin directive ordered the suicide of every Red Army officer and soldier rather than surrender; Soviet law regarded all captured Red Army soldiers as traitors. Soviet PoWs whom the Red Army liberated from enemy captivity usually were sentenced to penal battalions. Since April 1943 the osobists belonged to Smersh. Order No. 270 was also passed, urging soldiers to \"fight to the last.\"\nDuring the Great Patriotic War, the Red Army conscripted 29,574,900 men in addition to the 4,826,907 in service at the beginning of the war. Of this total of 34,401,807 it lost 6,329,600 killed in action (KIA), 555,400 deaths by disease and 4,559,000 missing in action (MIA) (most captured). Of these 11,444,000, however, 939,700 rejoined the ranks in the subsequently liberated Soviet territory, and a further 1,836,000 returned from German captivity. Thus the grand total of losses amounted to 8,668,400. This is the official total dead, but other estimates give the number of total dead up to almost 11 million men, including 7.7 million killed or missing in action and 2.6 million POW dead (out of 5.2 million total POWs), plus 400,000 paramilitary and Soviet partisan losses. The majority of the losses, excluding POWs, were ethnic Russians (5,756,000), followed by ethnic Ukrainians (1,377,400). However, as many as 8 million of the 34 million mobilized were non-Slavic minority soldiers, and around 45 divisions formed from national minorities served from 1941 to 1943.\nThe German losses on the Eastern Front consisted of an estimated 3,604,800 KIA/MIA within the 1937 borders plus 900,000 ethnic Germans and Austrians outside the 1937 border (included in these numbers are men listed as missing in action or unaccounted for after the war) and 3,576,300 men reported captured (total 8,081,100); the losses of the German satellites on the Eastern Front approximated 668,163 KIA/MIA and 799,982 captured (total 1,468,145). Of these 9,549,245, the Soviets released 3,572,600 from captivity after the war, thus the grand total of the Axis losses came to an estimated 5,976,645. Regarding prisoners of war, both sides captured large numbers and had many die in captivity – one recent British figure says 3.6 of 6 million Soviet POWs died in German camps, while 300,000 of 3 million German POWs died in Soviet hands. From the fall of East Prussia, Soviet soldiers carried out large-scale rapes in Germany, especially noted in Berlin until the beginning of May 1945.\n\nIn 1941 the rapid progress of the initial German air and land attacks into the Soviet Union made Red Army logistical support difficult, because many depots, and most of the USSR's industrial manufacturing base, lay in the country's invaded western areas, obliging their re-establishment east of the Ural Mountains. Until then the Red Army was often required to improvise or go without weapons, vehicles, and other equipment. The 1941 decision to physically move their manufacturing capacity east of the Ural mountains kept the main Soviet support system out of German reach. In the later stages of the war, the Red Army fielded some excellent weaponry, especially artillery and tanks. The Red Army's heavy KV-1 and medium T-34 tanks outclassed most Wehrmacht armor, but in 1941 most Soviet tank units used older and inferior models.\n\nMilitary administration after the October Revolution was taken over by the People's Commissariat of war and marine affairs headed by a collective committee of Vladimir Antonov-Ovseyenko, Pavel Dybenko, and Nikolai Krylenko. At the same time, Nikolay Dukhonin was acting as the Supreme Commander-in-Chief after Alexander Kerensky fled from Russia. On 12 November 1917 the Soviet government appointed Krylenko as the Supreme Commander-in-Chief, and because of an \"accident\" during the forceful displacement of the commander-in-chief, Dukhonin was killed on 20 November 1917. Nikolai Podvoisky was appointed as the Narkom of War Affairs, leaving Dybenko in charge of the Narkom of Marine Affairs and Ovseyenko – the expeditionary forces to the Southern Russia on 28 November 1917. The Bolsheviks also sent out their own representatives to replace front commanders of the Russian Imperial Army.\n\nAfter the signing of Treaty of Brest-Litovsk on 3 March 1918, a major reshuffling took place in the Soviet military administration. On 13 March 1918 the Soviet government accepted the official resignation of Krylenko and the post of Supreme Commander-in-Chief was liquidated. On 14 March 1918 Leon Trotsky replaced Podvoisky as the Narkom of War Affairs. On 16 March 1918 Pavel Dybenko was relieved from the office of Narkom of Marine Affairs. On 8 May 1918 the All-Russian Chief Headquarters was created, headed by Nikolai Stogov and later Alexander Svechin.\n\nOn 2 September 1918 the Revolutionary Military Council (RMC) was established as the main military administration under Leon Trotsky, the Narkom of War Affairs. On 6 September 1918 alongside the chief headquarters the Field Headquarters of RMC was created, initially headed by Nikolai Rattel. On the same day the office of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces was created, and initially assigned to Jukums Vācietis (and from July 1919 to Sergey Kamenev). The Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces existed until April 1924, the end of Russian Civil War.\n\nIn November 1923, after the establishment of the Soviet Union, the Russian Narkom of War Affairs was transformed into the Soviet Narkom of War and Marine Affairs.\n\nAt the beginning of its existence, the Red Army functioned as a voluntary formation, without ranks or insignia. Democratic elections selected the officers. However, a decree of 29 May 1918 imposed obligatory military service for men of ages 18 to 40. To service the massive draft, the Bolsheviks formed regional military commissariats (\"voyennyy komissariat\", abbr. \"voyenkomat\"), which as of 2006 still exist in Russia in this function and under this name. Military commissariats, however, should not be confused with the institution of military political commissars.\n\nIn the mid-1920s the territorial principle of manning the Red Army was introduced. In each region able-bodied men were called up for a limited period of active duty in territorial units, which constituted about half the army's strength, each year, for five years. The first call-up period was for three months, with one month a year thereafter. A regular cadre provided a stable nucleus. By 1925 this system provided 46 of the 77 infantry divisions and one of the eleven cavalry divisions. The remainder consisted of regular officers and enlisted personnel serving two-year terms. The territorial system was finally abolished, with all remaining formations converted to the other cadre divisions, in 1937–1938.\n\nThe Soviet military received ample funding and was innovative in its technology. An American journalist wrote in 1941:\n\nUnder Stalin's campaign for mechanization, the army formed its first mechanized unit in 1930. The 1st Mechanized Brigade consisted of a tank regiment, a motorized infantry regiment, as well as reconnaissance and artillery battalions. From this humble beginning, the Soviets would go on to create the first operational-level armored formations in history, the 11th and 45th Mechanized Corps, in 1932. These were tank-heavy formations with combat support forces included so they could survive while operating in enemy rear areas without support from a parent front.\n\nImpressed by the German campaign of 1940 against France, the Soviet People's Commissariat of Defence (Defence Ministry, Russian abbreviation NKO) ordered the creation of nine mechanized corps on 6 July 1940. Between February and March 1941 the NKO ordered another twenty to be created. All of these formations were larger than those theorized by Tukhachevsky. Even though the Red Army's 29 mechanized corps had an authorized strength of no less than 29,899 tanks by 1941, they proved to be a paper tiger. There were actually only 17,000 tanks available at the time, meaning several of the new mechanized corps were badly under strength. The pressure placed on factories and military planners to show production numbers also led to a situation where the majority of armored vehicles were obsolescent models, critically lacking in spare parts and support equipment, and nearly three quarters were overdue for major maintenance. By 22 June 1941 there were only 1,475 of the modern T-34s and KV series tanks available to the Red Army, and these were too dispersed along the front to provide enough mass for even local success. To illustrate this, the 3rd Mechanized Corps in Lithuania was formed up of a total of 460 tanks; 109 of these were newer KV-1s and T-34s. This corps would prove to be one of the lucky few with a substantial number of newer tanks. However, the 4th Army was composed of 520 tanks, all of which were the obsolete T-26, as opposed to the authorized strength of 1,031 newer medium tanks. This problem was universal throughout the Red Army, and would play a crucial role in the initial defeats of the Red Army in 1941 at the hands of the German armed forces.\n\nWar experience prompted changes to the way frontline forces were organised. After six months of combat against the Germans, the Stavka abolished the rifle corps which was intermediate between the army and division level because, while useful in theory, in the state of the Red Army in 1941, they proved ineffective in practice. Following the decisive victory in the Battle of Moscow in January 1942, the high command began to reintroduce rifle corps into its more experienced formations. The total number of rifle corps started at 62 on 22 June 1941, dropped to six by 1 January 1942, but then increased to 34 by February 1943, and 161 by New Year's Day 1944. Actual strengths of front-line rifle divisions, authorised to contain 11,000 men in July 1941, were mostly no more than 50% of establishment strengths during 1941, and divisions were often worn down on continuous operations to hundreds of men or even less.\n\nOn the outbreak of war the Red Army deployed mechanised corps and tank divisions whose development has been described above. The initial German attack destroyed many, and in the course of 1941 virtually all of them,(barring two in the Transbaikal Military District). The remnants were disbanded. It was much easier to coordinate smaller forces, and separate tank brigades and battalions were substituted. It was late 1942 and early 1943 before larger tank formations of corps size were fielded to employ armour in mass again. By mid-1943 these corps were being grouped together into tank armies whose strength by the end of the war could be up to 700 tanks and 50,000 men.\n\nThe Bolshevik authorities assigned to every unit of the Red Army a political commissar, or \"politruk\", who had the authority to override unit commanders' decisions if they ran counter to the principles of the Communist Party. Although this sometimes resulted in inefficient command according to most historians, the Party leadership considered political control over the military absolutely necessary, as the army relied more and more on officers from the pre-revolutionary Imperial period and understandably feared a military coup. This system was abolished in 1925, as there were by that time enough trained Communist officers to render the counter-signing unnecessary.\n\nThe early Red Army abandoned the institution of a professional officer corps as a \"heritage of tsarism\" in the course of the Revolution. In particular, the Bolsheviks condemned the use of the word \"officer\" and used the word \"commander\" instead. The Red Army abandoned epaulettes and ranks, using purely functional titles such as \"Division Commander\", \"Corps Commander\" and similar titles. Insignia for these functional titles existed, consisting of triangles, squares and rhombuses (so-called \"diamonds\").\n\nIn 1924 (2 October) \"personal\" or \"service\" categories were introduced, from K1 (section leader, assistant squad leader, senior rifleman, etc.) to K14 (field commander, army commander, military district commander, army commissar and equivalent). Service category insignia again consisted of triangles, squares and rhombuses, but also rectangles (1 – 3, for categories from K7 to K9).\n\nOn 22 September 1935 the Red Army abandoned service categories and introduced personal ranks. These ranks, however, used a unique mix of functional titles and traditional ranks. For example, the ranks included \"Lieutenant\" and \"Comdiv\" (Комдив, Division Commander). Further complications ensued from the functional and categorical ranks for political officers (e.g., \"brigade commissar\", \"army commissar 2nd rank\"), for technical corps (e.g., \"engineer 3rd rank,\" \"division engineer\"), and for administrative, medical and other non-combatant branches.\n\nThe Marshal of the Soviet Union (Маршал Советского Союза) rank was introduced on 22 September 1935. On 7 May 1940 further modifications to rationalise the system of ranks were made on the proposal by Marshal Voroshilov: the ranks of \"General\" and \"Admiral\" replaced the senior functional ranks of Combrig, Comdiv, Comcor, Comandarm in the RKKA and Flagman 1st rank etc. in the Red Navy; the other senior functional ranks (\"division commissar,\" \"division engineer,\" etc.) remained unaffected. The arm or service distinctions remained (e.g. general of cavalry, marshal of armoured troops). For the most part the new system restored that used by the Imperial Russian Army at the conclusion of its participation in World War I.\n\nIn early 1943 a unification of the system saw the abolition of all the remaining functional ranks. The word \"officer\" became officially endorsed, together with the use of epaulettes, which superseded the previous rank insignia. The ranks and insignia of 1943 did not change much until the last days of the USSR; the contemporary Russian Army uses largely the same system.\n\nDuring the Civil War the commander cadres were trained at the Nicholas General Staff Academy of the Russian Empire, which became the Frunze Military Academy in the 1920s. Senior and supreme commanders were trained at the Higher Military Academic Courses, renamed the Advanced Courses for Supreme Command in 1925. The 1931 establishment of an Operations Faculty at the Frunze Military Academy supplemented these courses. The General Staff Academy was reinstated on 2 April 1936, and became the principal military school for the senior and supreme commanders of the Red Army.\n\nThe late 1930s saw purges of the Red Army leadership which occurred concurrently with Stalin's Great Purge of Soviet society. In 1936 and 1937, at the orders of Stalin, thousands of Red Army senior officers were dismissed from their commands. The purges had the objective of cleansing the Red Army of the \"politically unreliable elements,\" mainly among higher-ranking officers. This inevitably provided a convenient pretext for the settling of personal vendettas or to eliminate competition by officers seeking the same command. Many army, corps, and divisional commanders were sacked: most were imprisoned or sent to labor camps; others were executed. Among the victims was the Red Army's primary military theorist, Marshal Mikhail Tukhachevsky, who was perceived by Stalin as a potential political rival. Officers who remained soon found all of their decisions being closely examined by political officers, even in mundane matters such as record-keeping and field training exercises. An atmosphere of fear and unwillingness to take the initiative soon pervaded the Red Army; suicide rates among junior officers rose to record levels. The purges significantly impaired the combat capabilities of the Red Army. Hoyt concludes \"the Soviet defense system was damaged to the point of incompetence\" and stresses \"the fear in which high officers lived.\" Clark says, \"Stalin not only cut the heart out of the army, he also gave it brain damage.\" Lewin identifies three serious results: the loss of experienced and well-trained senior officers; the distrust it caused among potential allies especially France; and the encouragement it gave Germany.\nRecently declassified data indicate that in 1937, at the height of the Purges, the Red Army had 114,300 officers, of whom 11,034 were dismissed. In 1938, the Red Army had 179,000 officers, 56% more than in 1937, of whom a further 6,742 were dismissed. In the highest echelons of the Red Army the Purges removed 3 of 5 marshals, 13 of 15 army generals, 8 of 9 admirals, 50 of 57 army corps generals, 154 out of 186 division generals, all 16 army commissars, and 25 of 28 army corps commissars.\n\nThe result was that the Red Army officer corps in 1941 had many inexperienced senior officers. While 60% of regimental commanders had two years or more of command experience in June 1941, and almost 80% of rifle division commanders, only 20% of corps commanders, and 5% or fewer army and military district commanders, had the same level of experience.\n\nThe significant growth of the Red Army during the high point of the purges may have worsened matters. In 1937, the Red Army numbered around 1.3 million, increasing to almost three times that number by June 1941. The rapid growth of the army necessitated in turn the rapid promotion of officers regardless of experience or training. Junior officers were appointed to fill the ranks of the senior leadership, many of whom lacked broad experience. This action in turn resulted in many openings at the lower level of the officer corps, which were filled by new graduates from the service academies. In 1937, the entire junior class of one academy was graduated a year early to fill vacancies in the Red Army. Hamstrung by inexperience and fear of reprisals, many of these new officers failed to impress the large numbers of incoming draftees to the ranks; complaints of insubordination rose to the top of offenses punished in 1941, and may have exacerbated instances of Red Army soldiers deserting their units during the initial phases of the German offensive of that year.\n\nBy 1940, Stalin began to relent, restoring approximately one-third of previously dismissed officers to duty. However, the effect of the purges would soon manifest itself in the Winter War of 1940, where Red Army forces generally performed poorly against the much smaller Finnish Army, and later during the German invasion of 1941, in which the German were able to rout the Soviet defenders partially due to inexperience amongst the Soviet officers.\n\nThe Soviet Union expanded its indigenous arms industry as part of Stalin's industrialisation program in the 1920s and 1930s.\n\n"}
{"id": "31246190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31246190", "title": "Richard Vedder", "text": "Richard Vedder\n\nRichard K. Vedder (born November 5, 1940) is an American economist, historian, author, and columnist. He is a professor emeritus of economics at Ohio University and senior fellow at The Independent Institute.\n\nVedder was born on November 5, 1940. He earned his bachelor's in economics in 1962 from Northwestern University in 1962 and his Ph.D in economics from the University of Illinois in 1965. He has since studied U.S. economic history, particularly as it relates to public policy. Some of his research has involved American immigration, economic issues in American education, and the interrelationship between labor and capital markets.\n\nVedder serves as an adjunct scholar at the American Enterprise Institute (AEI), a think tank known for mostly libertarian and conservative perspectives. He has served as an economist with Congress' Joint Economic Committee. In his role with the AEI, he later testified before the Committee on October 30, 2008. He is also director of the \"Center for College Affordability and Productivity\" in Washington, D.C.\n\nVedder is married to Karen Vedder.\n\nVedder wrote in his June 2004 book \"Going Broke by Degree: Why College Costs Too Much\" that American universities have become less productive and less efficient in recent years as well as more likely to shift funds away their core mission of teaching. He also criticized rising tuition costs. He proposed as a broad solution moving state universities toward free market competition and privatization. He specifically recommended as well that colleges expand distance learning, cut out non-educational programs, modify tenure, raise teaching loads, and reduce administrative staffs.\n\nOn May 27, 2011, Vedder appeared on the news/public affairs TV program \"PBS NewsHour\" and stated that since \"the cost of college is rising relative to the benefits of college,\" but \"learning outcomes are stagnant or falling in this country,\" American society must \"open up opportunities for people to consider a variety of different options after high school, one of which is college, but there are many others.\" Vedder also stated that \"as many as one out of three college graduates today are in jobs that previously or historically have been filled by people with lesser educations, jobs that do not require higher-level learning skills, critical thinking skills, or writing skills or anything of that nature.\"\n\nVedder and writer Stephen Moore wrote in the \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial page in March 2011 that every new dollar of new taxes leads to more than one dollar of new spending according to their research. Thus, they found evidence in favor of the \"Feed the Beast\" theory: that increasing taxes for the purported purpose of balancing the budget leads only to the government spending such inflows.\n\nIn the aftermath of the late-2000s financial crisis, Vedder stated that he \"somewhat reluctantly\" supported the $700 billion bailout package included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. He attributed the crisis to governmental failure and \"public policy miscues,\" saying the financial crisis of 2007 and 2008 \"never would have happened\" in \"the absence of these governmental mistakes.\"\n\nVedder wrote, along with Wendell Cox, the December 2006 book \"The Wal-Mart Revolution\" in which they asserted that criticisms of wage practices WalMart are \"unfounded.\" He argued that Walmart workers are \"paid fairly\" given their skill and experience, and he stated that they also receive side benefits such as health insurance that is fairly similar to competing firms. He further argued that communities with new Walmart stores have greater total employment and higher incomes.\n\nVedder's scholarly writings have appeared in journals such as \"Explorations in Economic History\", \"The Journal of Economic History\", and \"Agricultural History\". He has written over two hundred such scholarly articles. Vedder's writings have also appeared in \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"USA Today\", \"Investor's Business Daily\", and the \"Christian Science Monitor\".\n\nHe has published the books \"The American Economy in Historical Perspective, Unemployment and Government in Twentieth-Century America\" (with Lowell Gallaway), \"Can Teachers Own Their Own Schools?\", \"Going Broke by Degree: Why College Costs Too Much\", and \"The Wal-Mart Revolution: How Big-Box Stores Benefit Consumers, Workers, and the Economy\" (with Wendell Cox).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4183933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4183933", "title": "SIMDIS", "text": "SIMDIS\n\nUnder direction of the Office of Naval Research, the Naval Research Laboratory’s Code 5770 produced the SIMDIS 3-D Analysis and Display Toolset to the US Department of Defense community. SIMDIS provides support for analysis and display of test and training mission data to more than 4000 users. SIMDIS runs on Windows, Linux, and Sun Microsystems workstations with hardware accelerated 3-D graphics and provides identical execution and \"look and feel\" for all supported platforms. Since SIMDIS requires no additional COTS products or license fees, the Range Commanders Council (RCC) currently lists SIMDIS as a cost savings/avoidance program for the US Department of Defense.\n\nSIMDIS provides either a 2-D or a 3-D display of the normally \"seen\" data such as platform position and orientation, as well as the \"unseen\" data such as the interactions of sensor systems with targets, countermeasures, and the environment. It includes custom tools for interactively analyzing and displaying data for equipment modes, spatial grids, ranges, angles, antenna patterns, line of sight and RF propagation. Capability for viewing time synchronized data from either a standalone workstation or multiple networked workstations is also provided.\n\nTo meet the needs of range operators, simulation users, analysts, and decision makers SIMDIS provides multiple modes of operation including live display, interactive playback, and scripted multimedia modes. It also provides capability for manipulation of post-processed data and integration with charts, graphs, pictures, audio and video for use in the development and delivery of 3-D visual presentations.\n\nAt the Naval Research Laboratory and other sites, SIMDIS has been used for numerous simulation, test and training applications, analyzing disparate test data in a common frame of reference. SIMDIS has been independently accredited and certified by Commander Operational Test and Evaluation Force (COMOPTEVFOR) and Joint Forces Command (JFCOM). SIMDIS binaries are released under U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) \"DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A\", meaning it is approved for public release; distribution is unlimited. It has also been approved for use on the Navy/Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI).\n\nSIMDIS is currently an operational display system for the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), the Naval Undersea Warfare Center (NUWC), the Pacific Missile Range Facility (PMRF), the Southern California Offshore Range (SCORE), and the Central Test and Evaluation Investment Program’s (CTEIP) Test and Test and Training Enabling Architecture (TENA). In addition to the Defense community, SIMDIS has also gained acceptance in various other U.S. government organizations and in the foreign community.\n\nSIMDIS has a companion SDK which provides developers a way to embed much of the functionality of SIMDIS into their own application. The SIMDISK SDK is available on SoftwareForge.mil under U.S. DoD Distribution Statement C, which means distribution is limited to U.S. Government agencies and their contractors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4249557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4249557", "title": "South African general election, 1984", "text": "South African general election, 1984\n\nGeneral elections were held in South Africa in August 1984 to elect Coloured and Indian representatives to their respective houses of the Tricameral Parliament. The Coloured elections for the House of Representatives took place on 22 August, and resulted in a victory for the Labour Party, headed by the Reverend Allan Hendrickse, which won 76 of the 80 seats. The Indian elections for the House of Delegates were held on 28 August and saw the National People's Party emerge as the largest party, winning 18 of the 40 seats. The Indian elections were opposed by the United Democratic Front and were marked by boycotts and protests.\n\nIn addition to the whites-only House of Assembly, a November 1983 referendum had approved the creation of two new houses an 80-member House of Representatives for Coloureds and a 40-member House of Delegates for Asians.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 554 (1984) condemning the election, declaring it null and void as it was designed to entrench minority rule.\n"}
{"id": "31869291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31869291", "title": "Squatting in England and Wales", "text": "Squatting in England and Wales\n\nSquatting in England and Wales usually refers to a person who is not the owner, taking possession of land or an empty house. People squat for a variety of reasons which include needing a home, protest, \npoverty and recreation. Many squats are residential, some are also opened as social centres.\n\nThere have been waves of squatting through British history. The BBC states that squatting was \"a big issue in the Peasants' Revolt of 1381 and again for the Diggers in the 17th Century [who] were peasants who cultivated waste and common land, claiming it as their rightful due\" and that squatting was a necessity after the Second World War when so many were homeless. A more recent wave began in the late 1960s in the midst of a housing crisis.\n\nMany squatters legalised their homes or projects in the 1980s, for example Bonnington Square and Frestonia in London. More recently, there are still isolated examples such as the Invisible Circus in Bristol.\n\nUnder Section 144 of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, squatting in residential property became a criminal offence on 1 September 2012. Squatting in non-residential property may be a civil or a criminal matter, depending upon the circumstances, and repossession by the owners, occupiers or intended occupiers may require legal process or police action.\n\nIn 16th- and 17th-century Wales, an expansion in population as well as taxation policy led to a move of people into the Welsh countryside, where they squatted on common land. These squatters built their own property under the assumption of a fictional piece of folklore, leading to the developments of small holdings around a Tŷ unnos, or \"house in a night\".\n\nIn Elizabethan times, there was a common belief, that if a house was erected by a squatter and their friends on waste ground overnight, then they had the right of undisturbed possession. To make it difficult for squatters to build, an act was passed known as the Erection of Cottages Act 1588 whereby a cottage could only be built as long as it had a minimum of of land associated with it.\n\nIn 1649 at St George's Hill, Weybridge in Surrey, Gerrard Winstanley and others calling themselves The True Levellers occupied disused common land and cultivated it collectively in the hope that their actions would inspire other poor people to follow their lead. Gerrard Winstanley stated that \"the poorest man hath as true a title and just right to the land as the richest man\". While the True Levellers, later more commonly known as the Diggers, were perhaps not the first squatters in England, their story illustrates the heritage of squatting as a form of radical direct action.\n\nThere was a huge squatting movement involving ex-servicemen and their families following World War II. In Brighton, Harry Cowley and the Vigilantes installed families in empty properties and all around the country, in London suburbs and villages such as Chalfont St Giles families occupied derelict camps and in some cases stayed there until the mid-1950s. As word spread, more and more people squatted until there were an estimated 45,000 in total. On 10 October, Aneurin Bevan reported to the House of Commons that 1,038 camps in England and Wales were occupied by 39,535 people.\n\nWhilst the Government prevaricated, there was considerable public support for the squatters, since they were perceived as honest people simply taking action to house themselves. Clementine Churchill, wife of the ex-Prime Minister, commented in August 1946: \"These people are referred to by the ungraceful term 'squatters', and I wish the press would not use this word about respectable citizens whose only desire is to have a home.\"\n\nOn 8 September 1946, 1,500 people squatted flats in Kensington, Pimlico and St.Johns Wood. This action, termed the 'Great Sunday Squat' garnered much media attention and resulted five of the leaders being arrested for 'conspiring to incite and direct trespass.' The squatters left the apartments but did receive temporary accommodation. A sympathetic judge merely bound the squatters over to good behaviour.\n\nIn the context of a severe housing crisis, the late 1960s saw the development of the Family Squatting Movement, which sought to mobilise people to take control of empty properties and use them to house homeless families from the Council Housing Waiting List. This movement was originally based in London (where Ron Bailey and Jim Radford were instrumental in helping to establish family squatting campaigns in several London boroughs and later the Family Squatting Advisory Service), and several local Family Squatting Associations signed agreements with borough councils to use empty properties under licence (although only after some lengthy and bitter campaigns had been fought—most particularly in the borough of Redbridge). Bailey commented in 2005 that \"The whole concept of community-based housing associations – that's where it all started, with squatting groups. It shows that the solution to housing problems isn't estate based, it should be based on mutual aid. The government should do all it can to enable self-help groups to flourish.\" \n\nSince 1967, the Principality of Sealand has existed as an unrecognised micronation on HM Fort Roughs, a sea fort off the coast of Suffolk. It was occupied by Paddy Roy Bates who styled himself as His Royal Highness Prince Roy.\n\nIn 1969, members of the London Street Commune squatted a mansion at 144 Piccadilly in central London to highlight the issue of homelessness but were quickly evicted. The Eel Pie Island Hotel was occupied by a small group of local anarchists including illustrator Clifford Harper. By 1970 it had become the UK's largest hippy commune.\n\nBy the early 1970s, there was a growing conflict between the original activists of the Family Squatting Movement and a newer wave of squatters who simply rejected the right of landlords to charge rent and who believed (or claimed to) that seizing property and living rent-free was a revolutionary political act or more practically decided it was a good way to save money. These new-wave squatters (often young and single rather than homeless families) were a mixture of anarchists, Trotskyists—the International Marxist Group (IMG) being especially prominent—and self-proclaimed hippie dropouts, and they denounced the idea that squatters should seek to make agreements with local Councils to use empty property and that Squatting Associations should then become landlords (or Self Help Housing Associations as they were sometimes styled) in their own right and charge rent.\n\nThe Advisory Service for Squatters (ASS) continued the work of the Family Squatting Advisory Service, running a volunteer service helping squatters. ASS has been in continuous existence for almost forty years. It publishes the \"Squatters' Handbook\" and has drafted a legal warning to be used by squatters.\n\nSt Agnes Place was a squatted street in Kennington, South London, which was occupied from 1969 until 2005. The BBC documentary series Lefties profiled a squatted street called Villa Road in Brixton, which is still in existence.\n\nLocal Authority Housing Departments, facing rising court costs when evicting squatters, often resorted to taking out the plumbing and toilets in empty buildings to deter squatters. In the 1970s, some housing councils would attempt to deter squatters from entering their properties by \"gutting\" the houses, rendering them uninhabitable by pouring concrete into toilets and sinks or smashing the ceilings and staircases.\n\nActivists such as Terry Fitzpatrick teamed up with the local community in Whitechapel to form the Bengali Housing Action Group (BHAG) in 1976. At a time when the National Front was a threat in the area, Bengali families found strength squatting in numbers. Members of Race Today were involved in BHAG. When the Greater London Council declared an amnesty for squatters in 1977, they offered the Bengali families estates in the area.\n\nIn 1979, there were estimated to be 50,000 squatters throughout Britain, with the majority (30,000) living in London. There was a London's Squatters' Union in which Piers Corbyn was involved. For eighteen months, it was housed at Huntley Street, where over 150 people lived in 52 flats. The union organised festivals and provided homes for the homeless.\n\nSquatters occupied the Centre Point building in central London to protest homelessness and set up a free state in west London called Frestonia which attempted to secede from England. \nActor David Rappaport was the Foreign Minister, while playwright Heathcote Williams served as Ambassador to Great Britain. The squatters later formed themselves into a housing co-operative which still owns the buildings. In Euston, Tolmers Square was occupied by more than one hundred squatters, who engaged with local groups to fight for a redevelopment plan which fitted the community. \"Demolitions and threats to Georgian Bloomsbury and to Tolmers Square in Euston (the 'locus classicus of London's intellectual squatting movement'), succeeded anew in drawing public attention to the plight of the squares, and precipitated the initial stirrings of the movement for their preservation.\" The squatters lived there for six years, during which time Alara Wholefoods & Community Foods started up. Community Foods grew to become the largest wholefood company in Britain in the 1980's and 1990's. Nick Wates writes that \"It was only by taking direct action that anyone could intervene. By occupying empty buildings, squatters were able to halt the decline, revive the community and revive leadership in the struggle against the developers.\" \n\nOn Railton Road in Brixton, the 121 Centre was set up, having first been squatted by the black feminist Olive Morris. Until its eviction in 1999, the 121 hosted events and in the 1980s printed a squatters newspaper called Crowbar and the anarchist Black Flag magazine in its basement.\n\nCentro Iberico was an old school squatted as a social centre in the 1980s, following on from the Wapping Autonomy Centre.\n\nElsewhere in England, there were sizeable squatting communities in Brighton, Bristol, Cambridge, Leicester and Portsmouth. In Bristol, in the mid-1980s, squatters had the Full Marx bookshop, the Demolition Ballroom and the Demolition Diner, all on Cheltenham Road.\n\nIn the 1990s, squatters in Brighton formed a group called Justice? and squatted an old Courthouse. They later set up a Squatters Estate Agency which received national media coverage.\nThe 2012 Brighton Photo Biennial focused on 'Agents of Change' and released a full colour pamphlet entitled 'Another Space: Political Squatting in Brighton 1994 – present.' Projects such as the aforementioned estate agency, a community garden, exhibitions and an anti-supermarket project were all featured. The curator commented that \"While millionaires leave 'spare' houses empty for months on end and Tesco buy up land to be left vacant indefinitely, so called public space continues to diminish. By opening buildings to the public to make and share art, squatters create temporary autonomous spaces that radically refute this logic.\" \n\nIn 2003, it was estimated that there were 15,000 squatters in England and Wales. In 2012, the Ministry of Justice deemed the figure to be 20,000.\n\nAccording to statistics compiled by the Empty Homes Agency in 2009, the most empty homes in the UK were in Birmingham (21,532), Leeds (24,796) Liverpool (20,860) and Manchester (24,955). The fewest empty homes were in South East England and East Anglia.\n\nIn recent years, there have been squatted social centres in many UK cities, linked through the UK Social Centre Network. The OKasional Cafe in Manchester began in 1998 and periodically created short-term autonomous spaces including cafes. The RampART Social Centre in Whitechapel, London, existed from May 2004 until October 2009, hosting meetings, screenings, performances, exhibitions and benefit gigs. As part of Occupy London the Bank of Ideas was occupied in Hackney. The Spike Surplus Scheme was a venue and garden based in a former doss-house in Peckham, squatted from 1999 until 2009.\n\nThe 491 Gallery in Leytonstone, East London is a multidisciplinary art gallery. Young artists who cannot afford to rent studio or gallery space, occupy abandoned buildings. Artist Matthew Stone from the !WOWOW! collective in South London states \"I was obsessed with the idea of it, but also with getting to London and being part of a dynamic group of young people doing things.\" Lyndhurst Way was squatted as a gallery from 2006 to 2007.\n\nTemporary Autonomous Art, run by a group called Random Artists, is a series of squatted exhibitions which have been occurring since 2001. Beginning in London, the events have also taken place in Brighton, Bristol, Liverpool, Manchester, Sheffield and Cardiff.\n\nGroups have also squatted land as community gardens. Two such London projects were the Kew Bridge Ecovillage and the Hounslow community land project. In Reading, a garden called Common Ground was opened in 2007. It was then resquatted the following year as part of the April2008 days of action in support of autonomous spaces.\n\nDa! collective is an art collective that received national attention when they squatted in a £6.25 million, 30-room, grade II-listed 1730s mansion owned by the Duke of Westminster in 2008. After being evicted, they moved to a £22.5m property nearby in Clarges Mews.\n\nRaven's Ait, an island in the River Thames, was occupied in 2009. The squatters declared their intention to set up an eco conference centre. The eviction of these squatters took place on 1 May by police using boats and specialist climbing teams.\n\nGrow Heathrow is a squatted garden and part of the Transition Towns movement. It was raided by Metropolitan Police before the marriage of Prince William and Kate Middleton in April 2011, although the police denied any link to the wedding. Social centres in Camberwell and Hackney were also raided. Alleging unnecessary and illegal pre-emptive action was taken against them, the squatters requested a judicial review of the policing tactics.\n\nAn activist group called Topple the Tyrants squatted a London home belonging to Saif al-Islam, son of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, in March 2011. It was an eight-bedroom mansion in Hampstead Garden Suburb, London, which had been listed for sale for €12.75 million when the 2011 Libyan civil war began.\n\nLater in 2011, the perceived eviction of the Telepathic Heights squat in Stokes Croft in Bristol led to riots.\n\nWhen the Government announced its plans to criminalise squatting, protests were launched across the UK and SQUASH (Squatters Action for Secure Homes) was reformed (it was first set up to fight previous plans regarding criminalisation in the mid-1990s) with a presentation at the House of Commons. Squatters attempted to occupy the house of Justice Secretary Ken Clarke in September 2011. The following month, twelve people were arrested outside the House of Commons whilst the criminalisation of squatting was being debated.\n\nAs a result of the criminalisation of squatting in residential buildings, a group calling themselves \"The Gremlins\" in October 2012 resisted eviction of Spin Bowling in Cardiff from bailiffs and police. The group covered their faces with scarves and masks, posting on \"Bristol Indymedia\" claiming; \"The state tries to make people homeless, anarchists have no sympathy for the state and its lackeys.\" The protest was believed to be in response to the imprisonment of Alex Haigh, who was the first person jailed under the new Section 144 law in the UK. The activists have renamed the building \"Gremlin Alley Social Centre\" and continue to organise events at the squat.\n\nIn November 2012, masked squatters moved into the Bute Dock Hotel in Cardiff Bay, owned by the nearby letting agents Keylet. They were seen on the roof and were believed to be from the group, after a post on the Gremlin Alley Twitter account. Managing Director and Chairman of the Association of Letting and Management Agents, Mr Vidler, said \"It's distressing because I have items in there which are part of our business\", concerned it would cost a lot of money to remove them. Within a week they had left, after the owners took legal action, as it was being used for storage. Since the legal battle, Keylet plans to actively support tackling homelessness, believing \"homelessness in Cardiff and the UK needs urgent attention.\" In a statement about the occupation, the squatters said they intended to \"reclaim this unoccupied space to re-open it for the use of the community\".\n\nHistorically, there is a common law right (known as \"adverse possession\") to claim ownership of a dwelling after continual unopposed occupation of land or property for a given period of several years or more, depending on the laws to a particular jurisdiction.\n\nUK laws allow for adverse possession claims range after 10 to 12 years, depending on if the land is unregistered. In practice, adverse possession can be difficult. For example, St Agnes Place in London had been occupied for 30 years until 29 November 2005, when Lambeth London Borough Council evicted the entire street.\n\nThe law of adverse possession was fundamentally altered following the passing of the Land Registration Act 2002. In effect, after 10 years of actual physical possession, a squatter may apply to the Land Registry to have their title recognised as the owner in fee simple. However the original titled owner of the property, who will be notified by the Land Registry of the change in ownership, has the right to defeat the application by way of objection.\n\nSection 6 of the Criminal Law Act 1977 covers the occupation of property. The Act was implemented to stop slum landlords forcibly evicting tenants (as was the case with the notorious London landlord Peter Rachman in the 1950s-1960s), and made \"violence for securing entry\" an offence. The law states:\n\nPeople who squatted in buildings would often put up a \"Section 6\" legal notice on the front door. The notice stated there were people living in the property who claimed they had a legal right to be there. It warned anyone — even the actual owner of the property — who tried to enter the building without lawful permission that they would be committing an offence.\n\nIn September 2012, the law was changed making trespass in a residential building with the intention of permanently residing a criminal offence. Although a Section 6 warning still applies for non-residential buildings.\n\nThe Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 introduced section 6.1(A) and other provisions were added, which override this and give the right of entry to \"displaced residential occupiers\", \"protected intending occupiers\" (someone who had intended to occupy the property, including some tenants, licensees and landlords who require the property for use), or someone acting on their behalf. These terms are defined in sections 12 and 12A. Such people may legally enter an occupied property even using force as the usual section 6 provision does not apply to them, and may require \"any person who is on [their] premises as a trespasser\" to leave. Failure to leave is a criminal offence under section 7 and removal may be enforced by police.\n\nIn 2001, the Civil Procedure Rules introduced new processes for civil repossession of property and related processes, under section 55. These include a fast track process whereby the legally rightful occupier can obtain an interim possession order (IPO) in a civil court which will enable them to enter the premises at will. Any unlawful occupiers who refuse to leave after the granting of an IPO is committing a criminal offence and can then be removed by police. However some of these processes may not be available unless used within 28 days of the time that the claimant knew of the unauthorised occupancy.\n\nCriminal law refers to an \"occupier\" or \"trespasser\", and the Civil Procedure Rules part 55 refer to possession claims against \"trespassers\".\n\nIn March 2011, Mike Weatherley, Conservative MP for Hove, proposed an Early Day Motion calling for the criminalisation of squatting. His campaign was backed by a series of articles in the \"Daily Telegraph\" in which Kenneth Clarke (the Secretary of Justice) and Grant Shapps (Minister of Housing) were reported to be backing the move.\n\nIn response, Jenny Jones, Green mayoral candidate for London, said that squatting was an \"excellent thing to do\". Campaigners relaunched SQUASH (Squatters Action for Secure Homes) with a Parliamentary briefing chaired by John McDonnell MP. This formed a coalition between housing charities such as Shelter and Crisis, activists, lawyers and squatters.\n\nA total of 158 concerned academics, barristers and solicitors specialising in property law published a letter in \"The Guardian\" stating their concerns that \"misleading\" comments were being made in the mainstream media about squatting.\nMike Weatherley replied that \"the self-proclaimed experts who signed the letter, sheep-like, have a huge vested interest when it comes to fees after all\"\nand Grant Shapps tweeted that \"these lawyers are sadly out of touch\".\n\nThe Government opened a consultation entitled 'Options for dealing with squatters' on 13 July 2011, which ran until 5 October. It was \"aimed at anyone affected by squatters or has experience of using the current law or procedures to get them evicted.\" The pro-squatting campaign group SQUASH stated that there were \"2,217 responses and over 90% of responses argued against taking any action on squatting.\" Groups supporting a change in the law included the Crown Prosecution Service, Transport for London and the Property Litigation Association. Groups against a change included the Metropolitan Police, squatter networks, The Law Society, homelessness charities and the National Union of Students.\n\nKenneth Clarke then announced an amendment to the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Bill which would criminalise squatting in residential buildings. In 1991, Clarke stated \"There are no valid arguments in defence of squatting. It represents the seizure of another's property without consent.\" John McDonnell commented that \"by trying to sneak this amendment through the back door the government are attempting to bypass democracy.\"\n\nThe amendment states that \"the new offence will be committed where a person is in a residential building as a trespasser having entered it as a trespasser, knows or ought to know that he or she is a trespasser and is living in the building or intends to live there for any period.\"\n\nThe change in legislation has been referred to by Mike Weatherley as \"Weatherley's Law\" and came into force on 1 September 2012, making squatting in a residential building a criminal offence subject to arrest, fine and imprisonment.\n\nIn September 2012, Alex Haigh was the first squatter imprisoned under the new law, receiving a sentence of 3 months after occupying a housing association property in London. Two men were then found guilty of squatting above the Lamb Inn, in Romford.\n\nIn November 2012, Conservative MPs called for the criminalisation of squatting in commercial buildings as well, due to the perceived increase in the squatting of business properties. These included the following pubs: the Cross Keys in Chelsea, the Tournament in Earls Court (both in London) and the Upper Bell Inn near Chatham, Kent.\n\nIn February 2013, a homeless man named Daniel Gauntlett froze to death on the doorstep of an abandoned bungalow, in a case that has been linked with the new law.\n\nIn November 2013, a squatter convicted under section 144 had his appeal upheld at Hove Crown Court. The man had been arrested on 3 September 2012, in what was seen by \"The Guardian\" as the \"first test of new legislation that makes squatting a criminal offence.\"\nTwo other squatters were also arrested and had previously had the charges against them dropped completely.\n\nA newsletter from SQUASH published in May 2016 states that there have been \"at least 738 arrests, 326 prosecutions, 260 convictions and 11 people imprisoned for the offence, based on available information\" since criminalisation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5009096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5009096", "title": "Tactical manipulation of runoff voting", "text": "Tactical manipulation of runoff voting\n\nLike virtually all other electoral systems, in the two-round system, there is potential for both tactical voting and strategic nomination. Tactical voting is where voters do not vote in accordance with their true preferences, but instead vote insincerely in an attempt to influence the result. Runoff voting is intended as a method that reduces tactical voting, but two tactics called compromising and pushover are still possible in many circumstances. In particular voters are strongly encouraged to compromise by voting for one of the three leading candidates in the first round of an election.\n\nStrategic nomination is where candidates and political factions influence the result of an election by either nominating extra candidates or withdrawing a candidate who would otherwise have stood. Runoff is intended to reduce the spoiler effect, but it does not eliminate it. A famous example of the importance of both strategic nomination and tactical voting in runoff voting was the 2002 French presidential election.\n\nFor illustrative purposes, the following is a sample election that does not involve any tactical manipulation. Imagine an election to choose which food to eat for dessert. There are 100 people having dessert and three candidates: Ice Cream, Apple Pie and Fruit. Runoff voting is used to find the winner.\n\nRound 1: In the first round of voting each diner votes for the one candidate they most prefer. The results are as follows:\n\n\nRound 2: No candidate has an absolute majority of votes (in this election that would be 51) so the two candidates with the most votes, Ice Cream and Fruit, proceed to a second round, while Apple Pie is eliminated. Because their favourite candidate has been eliminated Apple Pie supporters must now vote for one of the two remaining candidates. The Apple Pie supporters split into two even groups: 8 vote for Ice Cream and 8 for Fruit. Of those who supported Ice Cream and Fruit in the first round, no one decides to change their vote. The results of the second round are, therefore, as follows:\n\n\nResult: Ice Cream now has an absolute majority so is declared the winner.\n\nRunoff voting attempts to reduce the potential for tactical voting by eliminating wasted votes. Under the first past the post (plurality) system, voters are indirectly encouraged to vote tactically by voting only for one of the two leading candidates, as a vote for any other candidate will not affect the result. Under runoff voting this tactic, known as compromising, is sometimes unnecessary because, even if a voter's favourite candidate is eliminated in the first round, she will still have an opportunity to influence the result of the election by voting for a more popular candidate in the second round. However, the tactic of compromising can still be used in runoff voting because it is sometimes necessary to compromise as a way of influencing which two candidates will survive to the second round.\n\nCompromising is where a voter gives a first or other preference to a candidate, not because they necessarily support them, but as a way of avoiding the election of a candidate who they dislike even more. The compromising tactic is sometimes effective because runoff voting eliminates many candidates in the first round, and these often include a candidate who might have received an absolute majority of votes had the candidate been permitted to participate in the second round. This creates strong incentives for voters to vote tactically in the first round to ensure that at least one of the two candidates who survives to the second round is acceptable to them. To do this, it is necessary to vote for one of the \"three\" leading candidates in the first round, just as in an election held under the plurality system it is necessary to vote for one of the \"two\" leading candidates.\n\nWhether or not compromising will be an effective tactic depends on the precise candidates and voting patterns present in each election. For example, if there are two very popular centrist candidates standing in the election, such that the outcome of the first round is inevitable, then compromise will be unnecessary.\n\nIn Example I above, if Fruit supporters had voted tactically for Apple Pie in the first round then Apple Pie (their second choice) would have been elected instead of Icecream (their last choice). By voting tactically, they ensure that Apple Pie has the opportunity to advance to the second round, Apple Pie is then able to achieve an absolute majority. However in the following election compromising is unnecessary; in the first round 100 voters vote as follows:\n\n\nIf the second preference of Far-Left voters is the Centre-Left candidate, and the second preference of Far-Right voters is the Centre-Right candidate, the result of the second round will be as follows:\n\n\nIn this election, once the Far-left Candidate is eliminated, the supporters have the opportunity to vote for the Centre-Left candidate in the second round; thus it is unnecessary and ineffective for Far-Left supporters to vote tactically for the Centre-Left candidate. For the same reason, the outcome will not be altered if Far-Right supporters vote tactically in the first round for Centre-Right.\n\nWere the election conducted using the plurality system, compromising would be effective. For example, if Far-Right supporters voted tactically for Centre-Right then he would be elected instead of Centre-Left. To counteract this tactic Far-Left supporters would also have to vote tactically. In this example, therefore, runoff voting removes the potential for tactical voting that would be there under the plurality system.\n\nPushover is a tactic by which voters vote tactically for an unpopular pushover candidate in the first round to help their true favourite candidate win in the second round. The purpose of voting for the pushover is to ensure that it is this weak candidate, rather than a stronger rival, who remains to challenge a voter's preferred candidate in round two. By supporting a pushover candidate, it is hoped to eliminate a stronger candidate who might have won the second round. The pushover tactic requires voters to be able to predict, reliably, how others will vote. It runs the risk of backfiring, as if the tactical voter miscalculates, the candidate intended as a pushover might end up actually beating the voter's preferred candidate in the second round.\n\nImagine an election, like the one at the start of this article, in which there are 100 voters who vote as follows:\n\n\nNo candidate has an absolute majority of votes so Ice cream is eliminated in the first round. Ice cream supporters prefer Apple Pie to Fruit so in the second round they vote for Apple Pie and Apple Pie is the winner. However, if only six Fruit supporters had used the tactic of pushover, they could have changed this outcome and ensured the election of Fruit. These six voters can do this by voting for Ice cream in the first round as a pushover. If they do this then the votes cast in the first round will look like this:\n\n\nThis will mean that Apple Pie is eliminated in the first round instead of Ice cream. This outcome is deliberate. The tactical voters know that Ice cream will be an easier candidate for Fruit to beat in the second round than Apple Pie. In the second round the tactical voters vote for their real first preference, Fruit. Thus, even if only 6 Apple Pie supporters prefer Fruit to Icecream, the result of the second round will be as follows:\n\n\nFruit will be elected. The success of this tactic relies on the Fruit supporters being able to predict that Ice cream can be beaten by Fruit in the second round. If a large majority of Apple Pie supporters had voted for Ice cream then the pushover tactic would have backfired, leading to the election of Ice cream, which Fruit partisans like even less than Apple Pie.\n\nRunoff voting can be influenced by strategic nomination; candidates and political factions influence the result of an election by either nominating extra candidates or withdrawing a candidate who would otherwise have stood. Runoff voting is vulnerable to strategic nomination for the same reasons that it is open to the voting tactic of compromising. This is because it is sometimes necessary for a candidate who knows they are unlikely to win to ensure that another candidate he supports makes it to the second round by withdrawing from the race before the first round occurs, or by never choosing to stand in the first place. By withdrawing candidates a political faction can avoid the spoiler effect, whereby a candidate splits the vote of her supporters and prevents any candidate acceptable to them from surviving to the last round.\n\nRunoff voting's system of two rounds makes it less vulnerable to the spoiler effect than the plurality system. This is because a potential spoiler candidate often has only minor support so that candidate will not take away sufficient support from any candidate likely to win in the second round to prevent the other candidate from surviving to that point. Voters can counteract the effect of vote splitting in the first round, in the two-round system, by using the compromise tactic. The spoiler effect is impossible in the second round because there are only two candidates.\n\nBecause it is vulnerable to certain forms of strategic nomination, IRV is said by electoral scientists to fail the independence of irrelevant alternatives criterion. This criterion is so strict that it is failed by almost all voting systems, even those that are less susceptible to strategic nomination than runoff voting.\n\nThe 2002 French presidential election is a famous example of the importance of both tactical voting and strategic nomination in runoff voting. The three main candidates were Jacques Chirac of the centre-right, Lionel Jospin of the centre-left, and the far-right Jean-Marie Le Pen. However there were sixteen candidates in total.\n\nIn French presidential elections, the usual outcome is for one candidate of the centre-right and one of the centre-left to proceed to the second round. However, in 2002, the two candidates to advance to the second round were Chirac and Le Pen. Chircac then won the election but the inclusion of Le Pen in the second round was highly controversial, because of what many considered his 'extreme' political views. Le Pen was an unpopular candidate, as testified by the fact that he won only 18% of the vote in the second round. Had Jospin proceeded to the second round, as expect, it would have been a closer contest. In the first round the results were as follows:\n\nThe right\n\n\nThe left\n\n\nThe reason that the left had no candidate in the second round was not a shortage of voters. As can be seen above, more than 37% of voters supported left-wing candidates. The problem was that the left-wing vote was split between seven different candidates. The left could have improved its performance using strategic nomination. If even a small left-wing party had withdrawn its candidate, Jospin might have had enough votes to avoid elimination. On the other hand, even with seven different candidates, left-wing voters could have altered the first round by voting tactically.\n\nIf only about 2% more left-wing voters had practiced the tactic of compromise and voted for Jospin rather than their true favourite, then he would have survived elimination. One reason that Jospin was eliminated was that many voters assumed that he would survive to the second round and so felt free to cast a protest vote for a minor candidate, rather than vote tactically. Had Jospin survived, by tactical voting or strategic nomination, it is possible he could have won the second round and beaten Chirac.\n\nA similar situation occurred in Louisiana, which uses a form of runoff voting called the run-off primary election. In the 1991, white supremacist David Duke secured enough votes to be admitted to the second round, in place of the incumbent governor, who would have been expected to survive. In the second round Duke lost to the more moderate Edwin Edwards. Louisiana uses a form of runoff voting called the run-off primary election.\n"}
{"id": "37046025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37046025", "title": "The Rumble in the Air-Conditioned Auditorium", "text": "The Rumble in the Air-Conditioned Auditorium\n\nThe Rumble in the Air-Conditioned Auditorium: O'Reilly vs. Stewart 2012 was a debate between Bill O'Reilly of \"The O'Reilly Factor\" and Jon Stewart of \"The Daily Show\" and moderated by CNN news anchor E. D. Hill. It took place on October 6, 2012 in Washington, D.C., starting at 8 pm with most of its audience viewing via Internet stream and subsequent download. According to \"The New York Times\", O'Reilly and Stewart \"have been guests on each other’s programs since 2001\" but \"rarely agree on anything except their mutual respect for each other.\" \n\nThe name of the event evokes the 1974 boxing match the Rumble in the Jungle; each participant was given a \"championship belt\" by the moderator following the debate.\n\nThe format of the debate was broken up into two sections: the first half followed the usual \"presidential debate\" format, while for the second half, the three took seats closer to the audience and answered questions posted by the audience and viewers on the Internet. While the discussion topics were essentially the same as the presidential debate a few days prior, much of the event was laced with humour: an oft reused gag was the notable height difference between O'Reilly and the Stewart – to compensate, Stewart had a mechanical riser built into his podium, which he would often use for comic effect.\n\nPromotional posters had explicitly announced, \"It's why Al Gore invented the Internet.\" A live internet stream and downloadable video files were offered for $4.95, with O'Reilly and Stewart donating half of the net profits to a number of charitable causes. The day after the debate was announced, tickets to attend the event live at the Lisner Auditorium at George Washington University were sold out. \n\nTechnical troubles arose at the start of the debate, preventing thousands of users from being able to watch the event live. The event's Facebook page cited overwhelming demand as the cause. Many were outraged since they sold the online tickets beforehand and were still unprepared. Nox Solutions was cited as the company providing streaming services for the event.\n\n\"USA Today\" wrote: \"It may not have been the most important debate of the 2012 presidential election season but it was certainly, so far, the most entertaining.\"\n\nThe \"Tampa Bay Times\" wrote of the event: \"O'Reilly and Stewart attacked each other's arguments but not their personalities, armed with facts and a fair bit of passion. They didn't replace traditional news sources or change many minds, but they did offer a blueprint for debate that can inform, entertain and push forward the bounds of public discussion at once.\"\n\nAt a post-debate press conference, \"Time\" noted that Stewart \"resisted attempts to analyze the meaning and influence of the event\" and that he had similarly maintained his 2010 \"Rally to Restore Sanity\" was purely for entertainment value.\n\nThe \"Christian Science Monitor\" described The Rumble as \"a giant promotion to attract more followers\" to \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\" on Comedy Central and \"The O’Reilly Factor\" on \"Fox News\"\" with the potential to serve as infotainment that would raise civic engagement. However, Nicholas Sywak of Salon.com felt the entertainment value was lacking and that it was \"barely worth $4.95, much less a Saturday night.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "972915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=972915", "title": "Vice-President of Fiji", "text": "Vice-President of Fiji\n\nThe position of the Vice-President of the Republic of Fiji was created in 1990, to provide a constitutional successor to the President of Fiji, in the event of the latter's death or resignation, or of his otherwise being unable to carry out his duties. The Vice-President's role in government was mostly ceremonial.\n\nUnder the terms the 1990 Constitution of Fiji, the Vice-Presidential office was divided between two persons, styled First Vice-President and Second Vice-President, respectively, but a single person has held the office of Vice-President from 1999, when the 1997 Constitution of Fiji came into effect. \n\nUnder the terms of the 1997 Constitution, the Vice-President was appointed by the Great Council of Chiefs, after consultation with the Prime Minister. In April 2009, however, the Constitution was suspended, following the earlier suspension of the Great Council of Chiefs in April 2007. Six days after the suspension of the Constitution, the government issued a decree stating that the Vice-President would henceforth be appointed by the President. Ratu Epeli Nailatikau was appointed Vice-President the following day.\n\nUnder the terms of the 2013 Constitution, the Vice-Presidential office was abolished, with its duties and powers transferred to the Chief Justice.\n\nBeing appointees of the all-indigenous Great Council of Chiefs, Fiji's Vice-Presidents, like its Presidents, have all been indigenous Fijians (of chiefly rank). In 2007, Reverend Akuila Yabaki, Director of the Citizens Constitutional Forum, suggested that \"the time may be right now to allow a person from any race to take up this position\".\n"}
{"id": "17370343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17370343", "title": "Vice President of Ecuador", "text": "Vice President of Ecuador\n\nVice President of Ecuador is the second highest political position in Ecuador. In many instances, the vice president succeeded the president in turbulent political situations. The last time was in 2005 after the resignation of president Lucio Gutiérrez. According to the current constitution, the vice president is elected on the same ticket as the president. \n\nBelow is the history of the office holders. The list is complete. \n\n"}
{"id": "2172566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2172566", "title": "Year Zero (political notion)", "text": "Year Zero (political notion)\n\nThe term Year Zero ( \"chhnam saun\"), applied to the takeover of Cambodia in April 1975 by the Khmer Rouge, is an analogy to the Year One of the French Revolutionary Calendar. During the French Revolution, after the abolition of the French monarchy (September 20, 1792), the National Convention instituted a new calendar and declared the beginning of the Year I. The Khmer Rouge takeover of Phnom Penh was rapidly followed by a series of drastic revolutionary de-industrialization policies resulting in a death toll that vastly exceeded that of the French Reign of Terror.\n\nThe idea behind Year Zero is that all culture and traditions within a society must be completely destroyed or discarded and a new revolutionary culture must replace it, starting from scratch. All history of a nation or people before Year Zero is deemed largely irrelevant, as it will ideally be purged and replaced from the ground up.\n\nIn Democratic Kampuchea, so-called New People—teachers, artists, and intellectuals—were especially singled out and executed during the purges accompanying Year Zero.\n\n"}
