{"id": "34439853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34439853", "title": "2012 Afar region tourist attack", "text": "2012 Afar region tourist attack\n\nThe 2012 Afar region tourist attack was a shooting incident on the night of 17 January 2012 at Erta Ale volcano in the Afar Region of Ethiopia which killed 5 and injured 3. Four people were kidnapped in the attack.\n\nBereket Simon, the country's communications minister told \"Reuters\" the attack was carried out at 5 am on 17 January, by Eritrean-trained groups. Two foreigners, a driver, and a policeman were kidnapped. Eritrea denied having trained and armed the attackers.\n\nIt was later revealed that two Germans, two Hungarians and an Austrian were killed in the attack. Two Germans and two Ethiopians were kidnapped. Three people injured: two Belgians and a Hungarian. The Germans were released 7 March the same year.\n\n"}
{"id": "3955851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3955851", "title": "Addendum", "text": "Addendum\n\nAn addendum, in general, is an addition required to be made to a document by its author subsequent to its printing or publication. It comes from the Latin verbal phrase , being the gerundive form of the verb () meaning \"(that which) must be added.\" is from the plural form , \"(those things) which must be added\" (see also memorandum, agenda, corrigenda).\n\nAn addendum may explain inconsistencies or expand the existing work or otherwise explain or update the information found in the main work, especially if any such problems were detected too late to correct the main work. For example, the main work could have had already been printed and the cost of destroying the batch and reprinting it deemed too high. As such, addenda may come in many forms — a separate letter included with the work, text files on a digital medium, or any similar carrier. It may serve to notify the reader of errors present, as an errata.\n\nIn other documents, most importantly in legal contracts, an addendum is an additional document not included in the main part of the contract. It is an ad hoc item, usually compiled and executed after the main document, which contains additional terms, obligations or information. An Additional Agreement to a contract is often an addendum to a contract.\n\nIt is to be distinguished from other appendices to a contract which may contain additional terms, specifications, provisions, standard forms or other information which have been separated out from the main body of the contract. These are called:\nan appendix (general term),\nan annex (which includes information, usually large texts or tables, which are independent stand-alone works which have been included in the contract, such as a tax table, or a large excerpt from a book), or an exhibit (often used in court cases),\n\nSimilarly an attachment is used usually for e-mails, while an enclosure is used with a paper letter.\n\nAddenda are often used in standard form contracts to make changes or add specific detail. For example, an addendum might be added to a contract to change a date or add details as to delivery of goods or pricing. The addendum should be referenced in the contract, or the contract should be referenced in the addendum, so that it is clear which contract the addendum is modifying.\n\nA rider is often used to add specific detail and especially specific conditions to a \"standard\" contract such as an insurance contract. A rider may also be added to a piece of legislation.\n\nSchedules and exhibits are sub-categories of addenda, with schedules being related to numerical and time information, such as pricing and time-schedules, and exhibits used for examples of standard forms or additional information necessary for the parties to understand and/or comply with their contractual obligations. Outside of contract law, exhibits are often used in legal documents filed with a court as part of judicial proceedings such as motions, briefs and the submission of different types of evidence for inclusion in the record of trial of a particular case.\n\nJuries in inquests or trials may amplify or explain their decisions by issuing a commentary known as a rider, as in the prosecution of Harold Greenwood and the inquest of Jean Charles de Menezes.\n\nAddendum is also used if the medical care staff is inserting additional information about the patient.\n\nThe addendum is the radial distance from the pitch circle of a cogwheel, worm wheel, etc., to the crests of the teeth or ridges. This is also the radial height of a tooth above the pitch circle.\n\n"}
{"id": "44923345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44923345", "title": "Artful Learning", "text": "Artful Learning\n\nArtful Learning is an educational philosophy model that is concept-based and interdisciplinary. Artful Learning was initiated by Leonard Bernstein and is rooted in using the arts to enhance all areas of education.\n\nIn 1990, Leonard Bernstein received the Praemium Imperiale, an international prize awarded by the Japan Arts Association for lifetime achievement in the arts. Bernstein used the $100,000 prize to establish The Bernstein Education Through\nthe Arts (BETA) Fund, Inc. Leonard Bernstein provided this grant to develop an arts-based education program. The Leonard Bernstein Center was established in April 1992, and initiated extensive school-based research, resulting in the Bernstein Model. After six years of association with the Grammy Foundation, the Leonard Bernstein Center for Learning moved to Gettysburg College, PA.\n\nArtful Learning is based on Bernstein's philosophy that the arts can strengthen learning and be incorporated in all academic subjects. The program is based on \"units of study,\" which each consist of four core elements: experience, inquire, create, and reflect.\n\nResearch shows that participation in the arts plays a vital role in influencing brain development and performance. Arts which are considered enrichment in education programs, may in fact be central to the way humans neurologically process and learn. In 1999, The President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities teamed up with the Arts Education Partnership to publish a comprehensive study on the inclusion of the arts in education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12982972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12982972", "title": "Bedlam in Paradise", "text": "Bedlam in Paradise\n\nBedlam in Paradise is the 162nd short subject released by Columbia Pictures in 1955 starring American slapstick comedy team The Three Stooges (Moe Howard, Larry Fine and Shemp Howard). The comedians released 190 short films for the studio between 1934 and 1959.\n\nOn his deathbed, Shemp struggles between life and death as Moe and Larry attempt to nurse him back to health. He warns them to behave or he will return to haunt them. After Shemp's arrival to Heaven, his Uncle Mortimer contemplates whether Shemp will remain or go to Hell. Then the Devil (Philip Van Zandt) appears in a burst of flame to tempt Shemp with a sultry dancer, Hellen Blazes (Sylvia Lewis). Uncle Mortimer intervenes, promising Shemp eternity in Heaven if he returns to Earth unseen and unheard and reforms Moe and Larry.\n\nMeanwhile, one \"Mr. Heller\" (the Devil) is giving Moe and Larry some \"devillishy good ideas,\" such as conning a wealthy couple into financing the production of fountain pens that write under whipped cream. Shemp sabotages their demonstration but accidentally starts a fire. The scene fades back to Shemp's bedroom. It has all been a dream, but Shemp is on fire because he fell asleep smoking in bed. When he tells Moe and Larry about their fountain pen writing under whipped cream, Moe hits him with a cream pie and Larry gives Shemp a fountain pen.\n\n\"Bedlam in Paradise\" is a remake of \"Heavenly Daze\", using ample stock footage. The new footage was filmed on July 9, 1954. Coincidentally, as the musical \"Carousel\" was a hit in Broadway at the time of the making of \"Heavenly Daze\", the film version of \"Carousel\" was in production when \"Bedlam in Paradise\" was made.\n\nA gag in the film's script called for a fountain pen to be thrown into the middle of Larry's forehead. The pen was to be thrown on a wire and into a small hole in a tin plate fastened to Larry's head. However, due to a miscalculation on the part of the special effects department, the sharp pen point punctured Larry's skin, leaving a gash in his forehead. Moe later chased director Jules White around the set because White had promised that the gag would be harmless.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2946175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2946175", "title": "Beyond Apollo", "text": "Beyond Apollo\n\nBeyond Apollo is a science fiction novel by American writer Barry N. Malzberg, first published in 1972 in a hardcover edition by Random House.\nMalzberg credits the inspiration for the novel to \"I Have My Vigil\", a 1969 short story by fellow science fiction writer Harry Harrison.\n\nThe novel's protagonist is Harry M. Evans, the lone survivor of the disastrous first manned expedition to the planet Venus. Evans provides details of the doomed expedition as a novel in progress, and he proves to be a remarkably unreliable narrator, constantly changing the particulars of his story as it progresses. It quickly becomes apparent to the reader that he may be completely insane, as a feeling of deep (and comical) paranoia underlies Evans's descriptions of the absurd conversations that ensue with the Venusian inhabitants. There is some indication that Evans could very well have murdered his fellow crewmember. The novel ends with a publishing house offering to purchase the rights to Evans's outlandish tale.\n\nLike much of Malzberg's work, \"Beyond Apollo\" was extremely controversial at the time of its publication, receiving both praise and scorn from literary critics.\n\nJoanna Russ praised the novel as \"a passionate, fine, completely realized work,\" noting that Malzberg's repetitive use of particular words transformed them into \"a kind of Greek chorus, a terrible, poignant insistence on something that is not quite in the story but yet comes through the story.\" Harlan Ellison commented that \"\"Beyond Apollo\" put me out of commission for three days after reading it\".\n\nOn the other hand, Bob Shaw said in \"Foundation\" \"Malzberg's \"Beyond Apollo\" is, to me, the epitome of everything that has gone wrong with sf in the last ten years or so\".\n\nThe novel won the first John W. Campbell Memorial Award for Best Science Fiction Novel, presented in 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1704204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704204", "title": "Cananefates", "text": "Cananefates\n\nThe Cananefates, or Canninefates, Caninefates, or Canenefatae, meaning \"leek masters\", were a Germanic tribe, who lived in the Rhine delta, in western Batavia (later Betuwe), in the Roman province of \"Germania Inferior\" (now in the Dutch province of Zuid-Holland), before and during the Roman conquest.\n\nApparently, the name had its origins in the fact that the Cananefates lived on sandy soils that were considered excellent for growing Alliums such as leeks and onions.\n\nAt the beginning of the Batavian rebellion under Gaius Julius Civilis in the year 69, the Batavians sent envoys to the Canninefates to urge a common policy. \"This is a tribe,\" says Tacitus (\"Histories\" Book iv) \"which inhabits part of the island, and closely resembles the Batavians in their origins, languages, and in their courageous character, but is inferior in numbers.\" This would imply a similar descent as the Batavians from the Chatti. In the failed uprising that followed, the Canninefates were led by their chieftain Brinno, the son of a chief who had faced down Caligula.\nThe capital of the \"civitas\" of the Cananefates was \"Forum Hadriani\", modern Voorburg.\n\nIn modern times, the region Kennemerland is said to derive from the name of the Cananefates.\n\n"}
{"id": "15374729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15374729", "title": "Class S (genre)", "text": "Class S (genre)\n\n, or \"S kankei\", abbreviated either as \"S\" or , is an early twentieth-century Japanese \"wasei-eigo\" term specifically used to refer to strong emotional bonds between schoolgirls, and a genre of which tells stories about the same, particularly a mutual crush between an upper class person and a lower class person. The S is an abbreviation that can stand for \"sister\", , \"sex\", \"schön\" (German: beautiful), and \"escape\".\n\nClass S had links to the Takarazuka Revue, an all-women revue established in 1914, in which the stories feature male characters romancing women, with female actresses playing both the male and female roles. In this particular style of love, the women who have been influenced by Takarazuka return to their daily lives and develop crushes on their female classmates or coworkers. This type of romance was typically seen as fleeting and more of a \"lesbian until graduation\"-phase in growing up rather than true homosexual behavior; as long as these relationships remained confined to adolescence they were regarded as normal, even spiritual. These relationships were common, and it has been proposed that eight out of ten schoolgirls had Class S relationships. was another term coined at the turn of the 20th century to describe same-sex female relationships; both of two feminine partners and of a masculine and feminine partner (also called \"ome\"). It was suggested in the popular media of the time that the Takarazuka \"otokoyaku\" (the woman playing the masculine role) caused women in Class S relationships to become \"ome\" couples (butch and femme), and persist in homosexual relationships long after it was acceptable. Jennifer Robertson sums this up in her theory, saying that \"many females are attracted to the Takarazuka \"otokoyaku\" because she represents an exemplary female who can negotiate successfully both genders and their attendant roles and domains.\"\n\nThe creation of girls' schools was very rapid at the time: by 1913 there were 213 such schools. The western novels \"Little Women\" and \"A Little Princess\" were translated into Japanese in 1906 and 1910, respectively, in order to educate the girls to become \"good wives, wise mothers\". However, these works also introduced western concepts of laotong, sisterhood, sentimentalism, and romance to the girls of Japan. The tomboyish Jo of \"Little Women\" particularly gave Japanese girls a different idea of adolescence. In 1936, Class S stories were banned by the Japanese government. As co-educational schools became more prominent, Class S relationships became more discreet.\n\nAn influential Class S author was Nobuko Yoshiya, a lesbian Japanese novelist active in the Taishō and Shōwa periods of Japan, who was involved in the Bluestocking feminist movement. A modern-day yuri light novel series which strongly borrows from the Class S genre is \"Maria-sama ga Miteru\". It is considered to be a modern equivalent to Yoshiya's \"Hana monogatari\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19332508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19332508", "title": "Clorinda (Jerusalem Delivered)", "text": "Clorinda (Jerusalem Delivered)\n\nClorinda is a fictional character appearing in Torquato Tasso's poem \"Jerusalem Delivered\", first published in 1581. She is a warrior woman of the Saracen army.\n\nFirst introduced in the second canto of the poem, when she rescues from execution Sofronia and Olindo, two Christian lovers of Jerusalem, she is next discovered under the command of the King of Jerusalem, Aladine, aiding that city's defences, together with the bold knight Argantes. Tancred saw her on the field and fell in love with her, thus refusing to do battle with her. Because of this, a lesser champion was sent out from the Christian hosts, and Clorinda slew him. Erminia, her companion, being herself enamoured of Tancred, then escaped Jerusalem in the guise of Clorinda, purposing to enter the Christian camp, but being surprised by a party of knights without, she fled and was lost in the forests. \n\nTancred falls in love with her in Canto 3. During a night battle in which she sets the Christian siege tower on fire, she is killed by Tancredi, who does not recognise her in her armour and the darkness. She converts to Christianity before dying (Canto 12). \n\nThe character of Clorinda is inspired in part by Virgil's Camilla and by Bradamante in Ariosto; the circumstances of her birth (a Caucasian girl born to African parents) are modeled on the lead character (Chariclea) from the ancient Greek novel by Heliodorus of Emesa.\n\n\"Il combattimento di Tancredi e Clorinda\" is an operatic \"scena\" for three voices by Claudio Monteverdi, dramatising the final fight, first performed in 1624, and popular since the revival of interest in early music in the mid-20th century. Though the spate of 18th-century operas based on Tasso mostly covered different parts of the plot, especially the story of Armida, Clorinda was the first contralto role in French opera, in \"Tancrède\", a \"tragédie en musique\" of 1702 by composer André Campra and librettist Antoine Danchet.\n\nClorinda's fight with Tancred and her conversion and death were especially popular subjects for artists. \n"}
{"id": "27993459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27993459", "title": "Concordat of 1928", "text": "Concordat of 1928\n\nThe Concordat of 1928 was signed between the Colombian government and the Vatican on 5 May 1928. The concordant was registered in \"League of Nations Treaty Series\" on 3 August 1928.\n\nIn Article 1 the Colombian government undertook to facilitate the continued operation of Catholic Missions in Colombia.\n\nArticle 2 specified the Ecclesiastical districts in Colombia.\n\nArticle 3 provided for an appendix to the agreement to specify the boundaries of the Ecclesiastical districts.\n\nArticle 4 provided for the establishment of stations on the borders with Venezuela, Brazil, Peru and Ecuador.\n\nArticle 5 provided for government financial support of missions sent to the Native American tribes in Colombia.\n\nArticles 6-8 specified the funds to be allocated to maintain the missions.\n\nArticle 9 placed the Catholic school system under the supervision of the missions.\n\nIn article 10 the Colombian government undertook to provide the missions with the land needed for their operation.\n\nArticle 11 obliged heads of missions to submit to the Papal Nuncio annual reports about their finances, and these reports must be delivered both to the Vatican and the Colombian government.\n\nIn article 12 the Colombian government undertook not to appoint in the areas where Native American tribes resided any local officials hostile to the Catholic church.\n\nArticle 13 obliged heads of mission to use their influence on Native American converts to promote government development plans on their lands.\n\nArticle 14 granted to mission officials the same legal status as other clergy.\n\nArticle 15 obliged heads of missions to appoint legal representatives to deal with legal matters.\n\nArticle 16 stipulated that the agreement shall remain in force for 25 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "464961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464961", "title": "Couch", "text": "Couch\n\nA couch (British English, U.S. English, Hiberno English), also known as a sofa or settee (Commonwealth English), is a piece of furniture for seating two or three people in the form of a bench, with armrests, which is partially or entirely upholstered, and often fitted with springs and tailored cushions. Although a couch is used primarily for seating, it may be used for sleeping. In homes, couches are normally found in the family room, living room, den, or the lounge. They are sometimes also found in non-residential settings such as hotels, lobbies of commercial offices, waiting rooms, and bars.\n\nThe term \"couch\" is predominantly used in Ireland, North America, South Africa and Australia, whereas the terms \"sofa\" and \"settee\" (U and non-U) are generally used in the United Kingdom. The word \"couch\" originated in Middle English from the Old French noun ', which derived from the verb meaning \"to lie down\". It originally denoted an item of furniture for lying or sleeping on, somewhat like a chaise longue, but now refers to sofas in general. The word \"sofa\" comes from Turkish and is derived from the Arabic word ' (\"wool\"), originating in the Aramaic word \"\" (\"mat\"). Joseph Pubillones in \"A Little Shimmer Goes a Long Way\" specifies that the main difference between the couch and the sofa is that \"couches can be used for reclining or laying upon\" so a \"couch\" would \"best be used to describe an upholstered piece in a family room\", while the term \"sofa\" \"used predominantly in England and Ireland denotes a tone of formality, hence a sofa is more appropriate word for the upholstered piece in the living room\".\n\nThe word \"settee\" or \"setee\" comes from the Old English word \"\", which was used to describe long benches with high backs and arms, but is now generally used to describe upholstered seating.\n\nOther terms which can be synonymous with the above definition are \"chesterfield\" (Canada), \"divan\", \"davenport\", \"lounge\", and \"canapé\".\n\nThe most common types of couches are the two-seater, sometimes referred to as a loveseat, designed for seating two persons, and the sofa, which has two or more cushion seats. A sectional sofa, often just referred to as a \"sectional\", is formed from multiple sections (typically two, three, and four) and usually includes at least two pieces which join at an angle of 90 degrees or slightly greater, used to wrap around walls or other furniture.\n\nOther variants include the divan, the fainting couch (backless or partial-backed) and the canapé (an ornamental three-seater). To conserve space, some sofas double as beds in the form of sofa beds, daybeds, or futons.\n\nA furniture set consisting of a sofa with two matching chairs is known as a \"chesterfield suite\" or \"living-room suite\". Also in the UK, the word \"chesterfield\" meant any couch in the 1900s, but now describes a deep buttoned sofa, usually made from leather, with arms and back of the same height. The first leather chesterfield sofa, with its distinctive deep buttoned, quilted leather upholstery and lower seat base, was commissioned by Philip Stanhope, 4th Earl of Chesterfield (1694–1773).\n\nIn Canadian English, \"chesterfield\" as equivalent to a couch or sofa is widespread among older Canadians, but the term is quickly vanishing according to one survey done in the Golden Horseshoe region of Ontario in 1992.\n\nA couch consists of the frame, the padding and the covering. The frame is usually made of wood, but can also be made of steel, plastic or laminated boards. Sofa padding is made from foam, down, feathers, fabric or a combination thereof. Sofa coverings are usually made out of soft leather, corduroy or linen fabric coverings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162852", "title": "Culture of New Zealand", "text": "Culture of New Zealand\n\nThe culture of New Zealand is essentially a Western culture influenced by the unique environment and geographic isolation of the islands, and the cultural input of the indigenous Māori and the various waves of multi-ethnic migration which followed the British colonisation of New Zealand.\n\nPolynesian explorers reached the islands between 1250 and 1300 CE. Over the ensuing centuries of Polynesian expansion and settlement, Māori culture developed from its Polynesian roots. Māori established separate tribes, built fortified villages (Pā), hunted and fished, traded commodities, developed agriculture, arts and weaponry, and kept a detailed oral history. Regular European contact began from 1800, and British immigration proceeded rapidly, especially from 1855. Colonists had a dramatic effect on the Māori, bringing Christianity, advanced technology, the English language, numeracy and literacy. In 1840 Māori chiefs signed the Treaty of Waitangi, intended to enable the tribes to live peacefully with the colonists. However, after several incidents, the New Zealand wars broke out from 1845, with Māori suffering a loss of land, partly through confiscation, but mainly through widespread and extensive land sales. Māori retained their identity, mostly choosing to live separately from settlers and continuing to speak and write \"te reo Māori\". With mass migration from Britain, a high Māori death rate and low life expectancy for Māori women, the indigenous population figure dropped between 1850 and 1930, becoming a minority.\n\nEuropean New Zealanders (Pākehā), despite their location far from Europe, retained strong cultural ties to \"Mother England\". These ties were weakened by the demise of the British Empire and loss of special access to British meat and dairy markets. Pākehā began to forge a separate identity influenced by their pioneering history, a rural lifestyle and New Zealand's unique environment. Pākehā culture became prevalent after the wars, but after sustained political efforts, biculturalism and the Treaty of Waitangi became part of the school curriculum in the late 20th century, to promote understanding between Māori and Pākehā.\n\nMore recently, New Zealand culture has been broadened by globalisation and immigration from the Pacific Islands, East Asia and South Asia. Non-Māori Polynesian cultures are apparent, with Pasifika, the world's largest Polynesian festival, now an annual event in Auckland.\n\nNew Zealand marks two national days of remembrance, Waitangi Day and ANZAC Day, and also celebrates holidays during or close to the anniversaries of the founding dates of each province. New Zealand has two national anthems of equal status; \"God Save the Queen\" and \"God Defend New Zealand\"—the latter of which is often sung with alternating Māori and English verses. Many citizens prefer to minimise ethnic divisions, simply calling themselves New Zealanders or Kiwis.\n\nThe Māori are the indigenous inhabitants of New Zealand. They originated with settlers from eastern Polynesia, who arrived in New Zealand in several waves of canoe voyages at some time between 1250 and 1300 CE. Māori settled the islands and developed a distinct culture over several hundred years. Oral history tells of a long voyage from Hawaiki (the mythical homeland in tropical Polynesia) in large ocean-going canoes (waka). Māori mythology is a distinctive corpus of gods and heroes, sharing some Polynesian motifs. Significant figures are Ranginui and Papatūānuku, Māui, and Kupe.\n\nCentral to many cultural events is the marae, where families and tribes gather for special occasions, such as pōwhiri or tangi. Māori often call themselves \"tāngata whenua\" (people of the land), placing particular importance on a lifestyle connected to land and sea. Communal living, sharing, and living off the land are strong traditional values.\n\nThe distinct values, history, and worldview of Maori are expressed through traditional arts and skills such as haka, tā moko, waiata, carving, weaving, and poi. The concept of tapu (meaning taboo or sacred) is also a strong force in Māori culture, applied to objects, people, or even mountains.\n\nEuropeans migrated to New Zealand in increasing numbers from 1855. Māori traditionally had a penchant for war, especially between 1805 and 1842 during the Musket Wars and diseases introduced, destabilized the traditional Māori society. The Treaty of Waitangi 1840 formed the basis of the establishment of British rule over New Zealand. New Zealand became partly self-governing in 1852 with the establishment of its own Parliament. The most serious conflict between Māori and European settlers was between 1863 and 1864 which resulted in land being confiscated from the defeated tribes. However Māori sold most of their land after 1870 and continued to do so until the 1980s. From 1820 Maori entered a long period of cultural and numerical decline. However their population began to increase again from the late 19th century, and a cultural revival began in the 1960s, sometimes known as the Māori Renaissance.\n\nPākehā culture (usually synonymous with New Zealand European culture) derives mainly from that of the British, particularly English settlers who colonised New Zealand in the nineteenth century. Until about the 1950s many Pākehā saw themselves as a British people, and retained strong cultural ties to \"Mother England\". Yet there was a common perception that people born in New Zealand were likely to be physically stronger and more adaptable than people in Britain. The largely rural life in early New Zealand led to the image of New Zealanders being rugged, industrious problem solvers. Another distinctive trait of Pākehā culture has been the egalitarian tradition, as opposed to the British class system. Within Pākehā culture there are also sub-cultures derived from Irish, Italian and other European groups, as well as various non-ethnic subcultures.\n\nIt has been claimed that Pākehā do not actually have a culture, or if they do it is not a distinct one. Part of the problem is that high culture is often mistaken for culture in general, and the lack of recognition historically given to New Zealand's artists, writers and composers is seen as evidence of a lack of culture. In contrast, Pākehā pop culture is generally highly visible and valued. Others argue that belief in the 'absence' of culture in NZ is a symptom of white privilege, allowing members of a dominant group to see their culture as 'normal' or 'default', rather than as a specific position of relative advantage. One of the goals of Pākehā anti-racist groups of the 1980s was to enable Pākehā to see their own culture as such, rather than thinking what they did was normal and what other people did was 'ethnic' and strange.\n\nFrom the 1980s Pākehā began to further explore their distinctive traditions and to argue that New Zealanders had a culture which was neither Māori nor British. There was an interest in \"Kiwiana\"—items from New Zealand's heritage that are seen as representing iconic Kiwi elements, such as the pōhutukawa (New Zealand Christmas tree), pāua-shell ash-tray, Buzzy Bee, Pineapple Lumps, gumboots and jandals.\n\nEthnic communities within New Zealand retain features of their own cultures, and these have, in some areas, spread to become popular with the general population. Settler groups from many cultures added to the make-up of the country, with many groups concentrated around specific geographic areas. These include Dalmatian settlers in Northland, Danish settlers in inland Hawke's Bay, and Southern Chinese and Levantine settlers in Otago. These added to larger-scale Pākehā settlement which itself varied between English settlers (e.g., in Canterbury), Irish settlers (e.g., on the South Island West Coast), and Scottish settlers (e.g., in Otago and Southland).\n\nFrom the mid twentieth century on, waves of immigrants have entered the country from different ethnic backgrounds, notable Dutch and central Europeans during the 1950s, Pacific Islanders since the 1960s, and northern Chinese, Indians, and southeast Asians since the 1980s. Various aspects of each culture have added to New Zealand culture; Chinese New Year is celebrated for example, especially in Auckland and Dunedin, and South Auckland has strong Samoan cultural links. To celebrate its diverse Pacific cultures, the Auckland region hosts several Pacific Island festivals. Two of the major ones are Polyfest, which showcases performances of the secondary school cultural groups in the Auckland region, and Pasifika, a festival that celebrates Pacific island heritage through traditional food, music, dance, and entertainment.\n\nThe popular music style of Urban Pasifika also has its origins in the New Zealand Pacific Island community, and has become a major strand in New Zealand music culture. The annual Pacific Music Awards recognise the contribution to New Zealand music made by Pacific Island musicians and musical styles. Pacific island heritage is also celebrated in much of New Zealand's fine art, with notable artists such as Fatu Feu'u, Lily Laita, John Pule, Yuki Kihara, and Michel Tuffery all heavily influenced by their Pacific origins.\n\nSince the arrival of Europeans, Māori have been receptive adopters of most aspects of Pākehā culture. From the 1830s many Māori nominally converted to Christianity and in the process learned to read and write, by the late nineteenth century New Zealand when formal schooling finished for most at 12, Māori were as likely to be literate as Pākehā. A number of religions, such as Pai Mārire and Ringatū, arose in the nineteenth century, blending Māori tradition and Christianity.\n\nSimilarly Māori traditional chants were put to Victorian music, or written to European tunes, European designs and metal tools adopted by carvers, altering their style and British fabrics and cloth, such as blanketing adopted to form new dress. The horse was adopted, particularly on the East coast. European tools and particularly weapons were frequently decorated with traditional motifs, for example wooden musket and rifle stocks acquired elaborate carving. From the 1820s Māori began building vessels in the European boat building tradition. Many of these activities were conducted in collaboration with Pākehā traders and settlers.\n\nAfter the defeat of rebel Māori who attempted to establish a renegade state in the King Country, the adoption of Pākehā culture became less of a free choice as Pākehā began to outnumber Māori. Parliament to passed legislation affecting Māori, such as the Native Schools Act (1867) which required English to be the dominant medium of instruction for Māori children although this was weakly enforced. The majority of Māori encouraged their children to learn the English language and Pākehā ways of life to function economically and socially. From the 1880s a small number of western educated graduates emerged from Māori colleges such as Te Aute. Men such as Pomare, Ngata and Buck believed that further adopting Pakeha culture would advance Māori in New Zealand. Together they formed the Young Māori Party which was very influential in starting improved health and education for Māori. All believed to some extent in redeveloping an interest in Māori arts and craft. Ngata went on to become a leading New Zealand politician and acting Prime Minister. Māori traditional culture became less critical in normal everyday life as advanced western technology- electricity, lights telegraphy, roads, mass production radio, aeroplanes and refrigeration made most aspects of Māori culture redundant but was still practiced at events such as tangi(funerals). From the early twentieth century and especially from the 1970s, Māori activists began to protest against Eurocentrism and demanded equal recognition for their own culture.\n\nMany Māori have become successful practitioners of European-derived art forms; indeed many of New Zealand's biggest arts success stories are Māori or part Māori. These include opera singers Inia Te Wiata and Kiri Te Kanawa, novelists Keri Hulme (winner of the Booker Prize) and Alan Duff, poet Hone Tuwhare and painter Ralph Hotere, actors Temuera Morrison and Cliff Curtis and director Lee Tamahori. Māori culture has also provided inspiration to Pākehā artists.\n\nSince the late nineteenth century, Pākehā have used Maori cultural practices when they required something distinctive. The most famous example of this is the haka of the All Blacks, a Māori posture dance which is performed before international rugby matches (there are many non-Māori Polynesian All Blacks, thus making this a multi-ethnic borrowing). However Pākehā artists such as Colin McCahon and Gordon Walters have also incorporated Māori motifs into their art, and a number of early Pākehā writers used Māori themes and topics in an effort to create an authentically New Zealand literature. The tourist industry has also made heavy use of Māori culture in an effort to present tourists with distinctly New Zealand experiences and items. Many Pākehā in other countries use an aspect of Māori culture to express their New Zealandness. An example of this is the mass haka which takes place in Parliament Square in London every Waitangi Day. Although Māori are generally involved, most participants are Pākehā (See Hei-tiki.)\n\nFor many years Pākehā did not consult Māori over the use of their culture, and Māori generally did not protest loudly unless a symbol was being used in a particularly inappropriate way. From the 1970s, Māori increasingly began to object to Pākehā use of their culture, especially when this use was disrespectful. One example of this is the \"haka party attack\" of 1979. University of Auckland engineering students had a tradition of performing a mock haka at graduation. After pleas from Māori students to discontinue the practice were ignored, a group assaulted the engineering students. They were later charged with assault but defended by Māori elders who testified that the engineers' haka was deeply offensive. Most Pākehā are now more respectful of Māori culture and often consult Māori before using Māori cultural forms. However, despite some attempts to copyright cultural intellectual property this does not always occur and forms are still sometimes used in inappropriate ways.\n\nSome Pākehā have been deeply involved in the revival of otherwise lost Māori arts. In the performance of traditional Māori musical instruments Richard Nunns has earned wide respect, as have the contributions made by many academics, for example, Dame Anne Salmond in the area of traditional rituals of encounter, or Mervyn McLean in the analysis of traditional song. Māori history has mainly been written by Pakeha authors such as Michael King, James Belich and Paul Moon. Traditionally Māori were reluctant to reveal their tribal knowledge to Europeans for fear of being mocked or considered barbaric, and also a belief in keeping tribal secrets. When Kingitanga allowed Michael King to write the biography of \"Princess\" Te Puea, because of his sensitivity to Māori, they still withheld material that would not show her in a good light.\n\nBoth Māori and Pākehā have borrowed cultural forms and styles from other countries, particularly Britain and the United States. Most popular New Zealand music derives from Anglo-American styles, particularly rock music, hip-hop, electronic dance music and related subgenres. Although there is evidence of a \"New Zealand style\", many groups incorporate New Zealand themes into their work, so this style affects each \"genre\" differently. More recently however from the start of the 21st century Dubstep, Drum and Bass, Jungle Trance and related subgenres, derived from England, has been further developed by New Zealanders into a unique sound, exemplified by Salmonella Dub, Shapeshifter and many others.\n\nThe visual arts have also shown the influence of international movements, for example cubism in the early work of Colin McCahon. In general, the development of international mass media and mass communication has meant New Zealanders have always been aware of developments in other countries; this lends itself to the adoption of new forms and styles from overseas.\n\nNew Zealand has three official languages: New Zealand English, Te Reo Māori (the Māori language), and New Zealand Sign Language. In practice only English is widely used although major efforts have been made in recent years to nurture Te Reo. Numerous other languages are spoken in New Zealand due to its high racial diversity as a country.\n\nNew Zealand English is close to Australian English in pronunciation, but has several differences often overlooked by people from outside these countries. The most prominent differences between the New Zealand English dialect and other English dialects are the shifts in the short front vowels: the short-\"i\" sound (as in \"kit\") has centralised towards the schwa sound (the \"a\" in \"comma\" and \"about\"); the short-\"e\" sound (as in \"dress\") has moved towards the short-\"i\" sound; and the short-\"a\" sound (as in \"trap\") has moved to the short-\"e\" sound. Some of these differences show New Zealand English to have more affinity with the English of southern England than Australian English does. Several of the differences also show the influence of Māori speech. The New Zealand accent also has some Scottish and Irish influences from the large number of settlers from those places during the 19th century. At the time of the 2013 census, English was spoken by 96.1% of the total population.\n\nAn Eastern Polynesian language, Te Reo Māori, is closely related to Tahitian and Cook Islands Māori; slightly less closely to Hawaiian and Marquesan; and more distantly to the languages of Western Polynesia, including Samoan, Niuean and Tongan. The language went into decline in terms of use following European colonisation, but since the 1970s mildly successful efforts have been made to reverse this trend. These include the granting of official language status through the Māori Language Act 1987, a Māori language week and a Māori Television channel. The 2013 census found that Māori was spoken by 3.7% of the population.\n\nHistorically, there were distinct dialects of Te Reo, most notably a softer version associated with the southern extreme of the country, though these have been almost completely subsumed by a standardised dialect originally found around the Waikato area.\n\nNew Zealand Sign Language has its roots in British Sign Language (BSL), and may be technically considered a dialect of British, Australian and New Zealand Sign Language (BANZSL). There are 62.5% similarities found in British Sign Language and NZSL, compared with 33% of NZSL signs found in American Sign Language. Like other natural sign languages, it was devised by and for Deaf people, with no linguistic connection to a spoken or written language, and it is fully capable of expressing anything a fluent signer wants to say. It uses more lip-patterns in conjunction with hand and facial movement to cue signs than BSL, reflecting New Zealand's history of oralist education of deaf people. Its vocabulary includes Māori concepts such as marae and tangi, and signs for New Zealand placenames. New Zealand Sign Language became an official language of New Zealand in April 2006. About 20,000 people use New Zealand Sign Language.\n\nAccording to the 2013 census, 174 languages are used in New Zealand (including sign languages). As recorded in the 2013 census, Samoan is the most widely spoken non-official language (2.2%), followed by Hindi (1.7%), \"Northern Chinese\" (including Mandarin, 1.3%) and French (1.2%).\n\nNew Zealand has two 'high cultural' traditions: Māori and Western. However most cultural material consumed in New Zealand is imported from overseas, particularly from Britain and the United States. Because of this and New Zealand's small population, most New Zealand artists, performers and writers struggle to make a living from their art. Some funding for the arts is provided through a specific arts based government department, Creative New Zealand. Heritage New Zealand and the Ministry for Culture and Heritage are national bodies that assist with heritage preservation. Most towns and cities have museums and often art galleries, and the national museum and art gallery is Te Papa ('Our Place'), in Wellington.\n\nPre-Colonial Māori visual art had two main forms: carving and weaving. Both recorded stories and legends and also had religious roles.\n\nWhen Settlers arrived, they brought with them Western artistic traditions. Early Pākehā art focussed mainly on landscape painting, although some of the best known Pākehā artists of the nineteenth century (Charles Goldie and Gottfried Lindauer) specialised in Māori portraiture. Some Māori adopted Western styles and a number of nineteenth century meeting houses feature walls painted with portraits and plant designs. From the early twentieth century Āpirana Ngata and others began a programme of reviving traditional Māori arts, and many new meeting houses were built with traditional carving and tukutuku woven wall panels were built. A longstanding concern of Pākehā artists has been the creation of a distinctly New Zealand artistic style. Rita Angus and others used the landscape to try and achieve this while painters such as Gordon Walters used Māori motifs. A number of Māori artists, including Paratene Matchitt and Shane Cotton have combined Western modernism with traditional Māori art.\n\nKapa haka, (kapa meaning 'rank' or 'row' and haka referring to a Māori dance), is the 'cultural dance' component of traditional Māori Performing Arts. Kapa haka is an avenue for Māori people to express their heritage and cultural identity through song and dance. It has undergone a renaissance, with national competitions held yearly and kapa haka used in many state occasions. The haka (often mistaken as \"always\" being a war dance or ritual challenge) has become part of wider New Zealand culture, being performed by the All Blacks as a group ritual before international games and by homesick New Zealanders of all races who want to express their New Zealandness.\n\nNew Zealand drama, both on stage and screen, has been plagued during much of its history by cost and lack of popular interest in New Zealand culture. Despite this Roger Hall and, more recently, Jacob Rajan are two playwrights to achieve considerable popular success. In recent decades New Zealand film has grown dramatically, with the films \"Once Were Warriors\", \"The Piano\" and \"Heavenly Creatures\" doing well both locally and internationally, and \"The Lord of the Rings\" trilogy director Peter Jackson becoming one of film's most successful directors. New Zealand's most popular comedian was the late Billy T. James.\n\nNew Zealand music has been influenced by blues, jazz, country, rock and roll and hip hop, with many of these genres given a unique New Zealand interpretation. Hip-hop is popular and there are small but thriving live music, dance party and indie music scenes. Reggae is also popular within some communities, with bands such as Herbs, Katchafire, 1814, House Of Shem, Unity Pacific all reflecting their roots, perspectives and cultural pride and heritage through their music.\n\nA number of popular artists have gone on to achieve international success including Lorde, Split Enz, Crowded House, OMC, Bic Runga, Kimbra, Ladyhawke, The Naked and Famous, Fat Freddy's Drop, Savage, Flight of the Conchords, and Brooke Fraser.\n\nNew Zealand has a national orchestra and many regional orchestras. A number of New Zealand composers have developed international reputations. The most well-known include Douglas Lilburn, John Psathas, Jack Body, Gillian Whitehead, Jenny McLeod, Gareth Farr, Ross Harris, and Martin Lodge.\n\nIn recent decades New Zealand comics have risen in popularity and recognition. In the 1970s and 1980s Billy T James satirized race relations, and McPhail & Gadsby lampooned political figures, especially Robert Muldoon. John Clarke aka Fred Dagg joked about rural life. From the 1990s onwards the Naked Samoans expressed a Polynesian sense of humour to the nation, and Raybon Kan is a prominent Asian comic and columnist. The Topp Twins are an off-beat comic/country music duo, and Flight of the Conchords have become famous throughout the English-speaking world for their self-effacing show.\n\nNew Zealand's most successful early writers were expatriates such as Katherine Mansfield. From the 1950s, Frank Sargeson, Janet Frame and others had (non lucrative) writing careers while still living in New Zealand. Until about the 1980s, the main New Zealand literary form was the short story, but in recent decades novels such as Alan Duff's \"Once Were Warriors\", Elizabeth Knox's \"The Vintner's Luck\" and others have achieved critical and popular success. Māori culture is traditionally oral rather than literate, but in recent years Māori novelists such as Duff, Witi Ihimaera and Keri Hulme and poets such as Hone Tuwhare have shown their mastery of literary forms. Austin Mitchell wrote two \"Pavlova Paradise\" books about New Zealand. Barry Crump was a popular author who embodied and expounded the myth of the Kiwi larrikin and multi-skilled labourer. Sam Hunt and Gary McCormick are well-known poets. James K Baxter was an eccentric but admired author. Maurice Gee is also a household name for his novels about New Zealand life.\n\nNew Zealand cartoonist David Low became famous during World War II for his political satire. Gordon Minhinnick and Les Gibbard were also witty political observers. Murray Ball drew a widely popular syndicated daily strip Footrot Flats, about farm life.\n\nThe sports that most New Zealanders participate in are rugby union, cricket, basketball, netball, association football (the most popular sport amongst children), rugby league and hockey. Also popular are golf, tennis, cycling and a variety of water sports, particularly sailing and rowing. The country is known for its extreme sports, adventure tourism and strong mountaineering tradition, as seen in the success of notable New Zealander Sir Edmund Hillary.\n\nThe national rugby union team is called the All Blacks and has the best winning record of any national team in the world, including being the inaugural winners of the World Cup in 1987. The style of name has been followed in naming the national team in several other sports. For instance, the nation's basketball team is known as the Tall Blacks.\n\nHorseracing was also a popular spectator sport and became part of the \"rugby, racing and beer\" culture during the 1960s. Many New Zealanders either play or support their local rugby team and the All Blacks are national icons. Some have argued that rugby is a national religion.\n\nPre-Colonial native Māori religion was polytheistic. One of its major features was tapu (sacred and/or forbidden), which was used to maintain the status of chiefs and tohunga (priests) and also for purposes such as conserving resources. Some of the earliest European settlers in New Zealand were Christian missionaries, mostly from the Church of England but also from Protestant denominations and the Catholic Church. From the 1830s onwards, large numbers of Māori converted. Throughout the nineteenth century a number of movements emerged which blended traditional Māori beliefs with Christianity. These included Pai Marire, Ringatu, and in the early twentieth century, Ratana. They typically centred on a prophet-leader. These churches continue to attract a substantial following; according to the 2013 census, 50,565 people are Ratana believers, and another 16,419 are Ringatu. 1,689 people stated that they followed Māori religion. Many Māori members of mainstream churches, and those with no particular religion, continue to believe in tapu, particularly where the dead are concerned, although not to the same extent as their ancestors.\n\nPākehā have become steadily less religious over the course of the twentieth century. In the 1920s there was still a reasonably high level of sectarianism and anti-Catholic prejudice, but this has since died down and the major churches generally co-operate with each other. The churches and religious lobby groups have little political influence where Pākehā are concerned. The vast majority of religious Pākehā are Christian, but a small number follow non-Christian religions, particularly Buddhism, and a larger number have a vague belief in new age ideas such as the healing power of crystals.\n\nIn 2013, the number of people who affiliated with a Christian denomination (including Māori Christian) decreased to 1,906,398 (48.9% of all people who stated their religious affiliation), down from 2,082,942 (55.6%) in 2006. Affiliation to non-Christian religions has increased since the 2006 census. , the number of Hindus numbered 88,919, Muslims 46,149 and Sikhs 19,191. The number and proportion of people indicating they had no religion increased between 2006 and 2013. In 2013, more than 2 in 5 people (41.9 percent) reported they had no religion. 1,635,345 New Zealanders identified with no religion at the 2013 census.\n\nMāori society has traditionally been one based on rank, which derived from ancestry (whakapapa). Present-day Māori society is far less hierarchical than it traditionally was, although it is still stratified by Pākehā standards. A disproportionate number of Māori MPs come from chiefly families, for example. However, a number of Māori not born into the chiefly families have achieved positions of considerable mana within their communities by virtue of their achievements or learning.\n\nUntil about the 1980s it was often claimed that New Zealand was a 'classless society'. The evidence for this was the relatively small range of wealth (that is, the wealthiest did not earn hugely more than the poorest earners), lack of deference to authority figures, high levels of class mobility, a high standard of working class living compared to Britain, progressive labour laws which protected workers and encouraged unionism, state housing, and a welfare state which was developed in New Zealand before most other countries.\n\nNew Zealanders' egalitarianism has been criticised as discouraging and denigrating ambition and individual achievement and success. New Zealanders tend to value modesty and distrust those who talk about their own merits. They especially dislike anyone who seems to consider themselves better than others even if the person in question is demonstrably more talented or successful than others. This attitude can manifest itself in the tall poppy syndrome, which describes the 'cutting down' of anyone thought to have risen above the general mass of people.\n\nIt has been argued that in New Zealand ethnicity takes the place of class, with Māori and other Polynesians earning less, having a lower standard of living and less education, and working in lower status jobs than Pākehā.\n\nNew Zealand's claims to be a classless society were dealt a fatal blow in the 1980s and 1990s by the economic reforms of the fourth Labour government and its successor, the fourth National government. A cultural shift also took place due to the economic and social impact of international capital, commerce and advertising. New Zealanders were exposed to a previously unknown array of consumer goods and franchises. Aided by overseas programming, commercial radio and TV stations enjoyed rapid growth. Local manufacturing suffered from cheap imports, with many jobs lost. These reforms led to a dramatic increase in the gap between the richest and poorest New Zealanders, and an increase in the numbers living in poverty.\n\nIt is very common for New Zealanders to travel or live overseas for extended periods of time, often on working holidays. These are usually referred to as the 'OE' or 'overseas experience', and are most commonly taken by people in their 20s. The three most common destinations are Australia, Great Britain and Europe, although recently trips to Asian countries such as South Korea and Japan to teach English have become increasingly popular. The east coast of Australia and London both have sizeable expatriate New Zealand communities.\n\nThe OE to Europe is usually self-funded, and tends to occur a few years after university graduation, when the traveller has saved up enough for airfares and living expenses. The length of the visit can range from a few months to the remainder of the visitor's life; since many New Zealanders have British ancestry or dual citizenship (sometimes as a result of their parents' OE), the restrictions on working in Britain do not apply to a substantial percentage of them.\n\nWorking holidays in Asia are more likely to occur shortly after graduation, and many agencies specifically target graduates for these trips. Because Australia is relatively close to New Zealand and has no restrictions on New Zealanders working there, the New Zealanders working in Australia are more diverse than those in other countries, with a significantly higher proportion of Māori and working-class people.\n\nSince the signing of the Trans-Tasman Travel Arrangement in 1973, New Zealanders have had the right to live and work in Australia on equal terms with Australian citizens. Until the 1970s New Zealanders had similar rights in relation to Britain. Changes to British immigration law in this period required New Zealanders to obtain visas to work in Britain or live there for extended periods, unless they had recent British ancestry.\n\nNew Zealand has a number of reciprocal working holiday agreements, allowing people in their 20s to live and work overseas, usually for up to a year. Such agreements are in place with: Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Republic of Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, Thailand, the United Kingdom and Uruguay.\n\nThe stereotypical New Zealand male is essentially a pioneer type: he is perceived to be rural, unintellectual, strong, unemotional, democratic, has little time for high culture, good with animals (particularly horses) and machines, and is able to turn his hand to nearly anything. This type of man is often presumed to be a unique product of New Zealand's colonial period but he shares many similarities with the stereotypical American frontiersman and Australian bushman. New Zealand men are supposed to still have many of these qualities, even though most New Zealanders have lived in urban areas since the late nineteenth century. This has not prevented New Zealanders seeing themselves (and being seen) as essentially country people and good at the tasks which country life requires.\n\nNew Zealand social policy has tended to oscillate between high levels of innovation and progressiveness and equally high levels of conservatism. Social reforms pioneered by New Zealand include women's suffrage, the welfare state, and respect for indigenous peoples (through the Treaty of Waitangi and the Waitangi Tribunal). Having led the (non-communist) world in economic regulation from the 1930s, in the 1980s and 1990s the reforms of the Labour Government led the world in economic de-regulation. New Zealand was the first country to have an openly transgender mayor, and later member of parliament, Georgina Beyer.\n\nIn contrast to this, New Zealand has a history of some very conservative social policies. Most notably, from World War One until 1967 pubs were required by law to close at 6pm. Until the 1980s most shops were banned from opening on weekends, and until 1999 alcoholic beverages could not be sold on Sundays, known as blue law.\n\nIn a rare occurrence, the 1981 Springbok Tour saw the two extremes very publicly clash with each other on a nationwide scale.\n\nMost New Zealanders display faith in their democracy, with New Zealand being rated the second least corrupt nation in the world. Turnout for parliamentary elections is typically above 80%, which is very high by international standards and occurs despite the absence of any law requiring citizens to vote. However local government elections have much lower turnout figures, with an average of 53% in 2007.\n\nNew Zealanders, both those of Pākehā and Māori roots, have been described as an individualistic people, who take intrusion very personally, especially when it occurs onto private land (but also sometimes in a wider sense). According to psychologists, this is rooted respectively in the 'frontier' image of the European settler culture, but also mirrored amongst the Māori, for whom land holds a lot of spiritual value in addition to its commercial use.\n\nNew Zealand has for most of its modern history been an isolated bi-cultural society. In recent decades an increasing number of immigrants has changed the demographic spectra. In the larger cities this change has occurred suddenly and dramatically. There has been an increasing awareness of multiculturalism in New Zealand in all areas of society and also in politics. New Zealand's race relations has been a controversial topic in recent times. The political party New Zealand First has been associated with an anti immigration policy. The Office of the Race Relations Conciliator was established by the Race Relations Act in 1971 for the purposes of \"promoting positive race relations and addressing complaints of discrimination on grounds of race, colour, and ethnic or national origin\", and was merged with the Human Rights Commission in January 2002.\n\nMāori cuisine was historically derived from that of tropical Polynesia, adapted for New Zealand's colder climate. Key ingredients included kūmara (sweet potato), fern root, taro, birds and fish. Food was cooked in hāngi (earth ovens) and roasted, and in geothermal areas was boiled or steamed using natural hot springs and pools. Various means of preserving birds and other foods were also employed. Māori were one of the few peoples to have no form of alcoholic beverage.\n\nFollowing the arrival of British settlers, Māori adopted many of their foods, especially pork and potatoes, the latter of which transformed the Māori agricultural economy. Many traditional food sources became scarce as introduced predators dramatically reduced bird populations, and forests were cleared for farming and timber. Traditional seafoods such as toheroa and whitebait were over-harvested. Present day Māori cuisine is a mixture of Māori tradition, old fashioned English cookery, and contemporary dishes. In everyday life the two foods of Māori origin are \"the boil up\" (boiled up left over food meat and vegetable scraps sometimes thickened with flour), and the hāngi which is associated with special occasions.\n\nThe majority of Pākehā are of British descent, and so it is not surprising that Pākehā cuisine is very similar to British cuisine. Nineteenth-century British settlers in New Zealand tried as much as possible to reproduce the foods of their homeland. A major difference between British and Pākehā food was that meat was much more readily available to all social classes in New Zealand. A highly carnivorous diet remains a part of Pākehā culture, although red meat consumption has dropped in the last few decades. Like the British, Pākehā have traditionally been very fond of sweet foods, and the best of traditional Pākehā cooking consists of cakes, scones, muffins and desserts.\n\nIn recent decades Pākehā have discovered 'ethnic' food, and a 'foodie' culture has emerged. Most Pākehā food is not significantly different from modern British cuisine, although New Zealand chefs such as Peter Gordon played a major part in the creation of fusion cuisine.\n\nNew Zealanders increasingly come from many ethnic backgrounds, and most immigrants to New Zealand have tried to reproduce their native cuisines or national dishes in New Zealand. Ethnic restaurants have served as community meeting places and have also given other New Zealanders a chance to try different cuisines.\n\nThe evolution of café culture has been a major part of growth within New Zealand. Cafés and the perfection of espresso coffee making throughout most of New Zealand have led to a unique part of the life of the country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4652506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4652506", "title": "Czech studies", "text": "Czech studies\n\nBohemistics, also known as Czech studies, is the field of humanities that researches, documents and disseminates Czech language and literature in both its historic and present-day forms. The common Czech name for the field is \"bohemistika\". A researcher in the field is usually called a \"Bohemist\". \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56555928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56555928", "title": "Dajjal: The Slayer and His Followers", "text": "Dajjal: The Slayer and His Followers\n\nDajjal: The Slayer and His Followers is an upcoming conspiracy-thriller animated film about the Current Middle East Crises, written and directed by Rana Abrar. The plot follows an ancient plan for dominating kingdom to controlling the world and the actions to save the world from global annihilation.\n\nFour young boys select a crazed to create the peacekeeping program to protect the world from the conspiracy theory of Dajjal's followers who are waiting for their fake messenger that will rule the world as an only monarch and will build up one world government to effect complete and destroy all world religions.\n\nThe film final name/title was announced on November 2016. The key animation and artwork of the movie had been started on 30 February 2017. The first trailer was released on 3 May 2017 and the second trailer was released on 19 January 2018.\n\nThe film is originally set for a worldwide release in March 2019. The duration of the movie is 100 minutes. The film will be released in 6 Languages English, Arabic, Turkish, Malay, Indonesian and Urdu.\n\n"}
{"id": "40572387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40572387", "title": "Department of Communications and the Arts", "text": "Department of Communications and the Arts\n\nThe Australian Department of Communications and the Arts is a department of the Government of Australia charged with responsibility for communications policy and programs and cultural affairs.\n\nThe head of the department is the Secretary of the Department of Communications, currently Mike Mrdak, who reports to Senator the Hon. Mitch Fifield, who is currently the Minister for Communications and Minister for the Arts\n\nThe department was created in September 2015 following Malcolm Turnbull becoming prime minister, replacing the Department of Communications, and transferring responsibility for the arts from the Attorney-General's Department.\n\n\nThe Administrative Arrangements Order made on 21 September 2015 detailed the following responsibilities to the department:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1632680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1632680", "title": "Diploma of Education", "text": "Diploma of Education\n\nThe Diploma of Education, often abbreviated to DipEd or GradDipEd, is a postgraduate qualification offered in many Commonwealth countries including Australia, Sri Lanka, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe diploma can build on the general or disciplinary knowledge of a bachelor's degree to prepare students to teach in schools although this is not true of the UK where Qualified Teacher Status is the recognized professional qualification for those wishing to teach in (state) maintained primary and secondary schools. However, in the UK holders of the Cert Ed, awarded after completing a three-year teacher training course, could use the diploma as a route to degree equivalence, and if passed at the appropriate level progress to a master's degree in education. The Graduate Diploma in Education is a one-year teacher preparation program for students who already hold a tertiary degree.\n\nSpecialisation within the course usually enables one to become a primary or secondary teacher, or a teacher in an adult education environment such as TAFE or a business college, and to join the relevant professional association. Achievement of a Diploma of Education does not normally confer registration status, but is a pathway to registration as a teacher.\n\nThe DipEd typically takes one year of full-time study (up to two years part-time) and students are generally required to undertake professional practicums (or \"pracs\") alongside their theory units in order to graduate. It offers an alternative to the three- or four-year Bachelor of Education for those who already have a degree in another area (e.g. Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Arts) and wish to specialise in that area.\n\nIn Australia, the Graduate Diploma in Education, typically a 1-year programme, was gradually phased out in favour of a 2-year Master of Teaching course. This is the result of a requirement by the Australian Institution for Teaching and School Leadership that post graduate qualification must be of 2 years' duration. All graduate diploma programs will be phased out by December 2017.\n\nThe course is referred to as a Diploma of Teaching in New Zealand.\n\nDiploma of Education ensuring high quality teacher education is a first and critical step in delivering high quality teaching in schools, particularly at a time when the role of teachers is becoming increasingly complex and demanding.\n"}
{"id": "461425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=461425", "title": "Dr. Slump", "text": "Dr. Slump\n\nThe manga was adapted into an anime television series by Toei Animation that ran on Fuji TV from 1981 to 1986 consisting of 243 episodes. A remake series was created thirteen years after the manga ended, consisting of 74 episodes that were broadcast from 1997 to 1999. The series has also spawned several novels, video games and eleven animated films.\n\n\"Dr. Slump\" launched Toriyama's career. It was awarded the Shogakukan Manga Award for \"shōnen\" and \"shōjo\" manga in 1981 and has sold over 35 million copies in Japan. The manga was released in North America by Viz Media from 2004 to 2009. Discotek Media released the first five films in North America in 2014.\n\n\"Dr. Slump\" is set in , a place where humans co-exist with all sorts of anthropomorphic animals and other objects. In this village lives Senbei Norimaki, an inventor. In the first chapter, he builds what he hopes will be the world's most perfect little girl robot, named Arale Norimaki. However, she turns out to be in severe need of eyeglasses. She is also very naïve, and in later issues she has adventures such as bringing a huge bear home, having mistaken it for a pet. To Senbei's credit, she does have super-strength. In general, the manga focuses on Arale's misunderstandings of humanity and Senbei's inventions, rivalries, and romantic misadventures. In the middle of the series, a recurring villain named Dr. Mashirito appears as a rival to Senbei.\n\n\"Dr. Slump\" is filled with puns and toilet humor, and parodies of both Japanese and American culture. For example, one of the recurring characters is Suppaman, a short, fat, pompous buffoon who changes into a Superman-like alter-ego by eating a sour-tasting (\"suppai\" in Japanese) umeboshi. Unlike Superman, Suppaman cannot fly, and instead pretends to fly by lying belly down on a skateboard and scooting through the streets. Also, one of the village's policemen wears a \"Star Wars\"-style stormtrooper helmet, just as in the American movies. Toriyama himself has been portrayed as a bird (the \"tori\" in his last name means \"bird\", hence the name of his production studio Bird Studio), although it has been suggested (by himself even) that he actually based the design of Senbei on himself. In addition, other real-life people make appearances as well, such as Toriyama's editor (Kazuhiko Torishima), assistants, wife, his colleague friends (such as Masakazu Katsura) and others.\n\nWith Toriyama a newcomer to manga and his editor Kazuhiko Torishima still relatively new at his job as well, the two worked for 18 months with Torishima rejecting all the author's ideas until the first draft of \"Dr. Slump\". One of these rejected works, , served as a basis for \"Dr. Slump\". Toriyama drew several short omake included in the \"Dr. Slump\" \"tankōbon\" volumes that supposedly depict actual events on the production of the series, although, as they are often humorous, the level of truthfulness to them is uncertain. In one, he claimed that when he told Torishima that he wanted to make a manga about a doctor, the editor told him to add a robot. Toriyama originally wanted a very large robot, but as it would not fit in the panels, he instead made it small. When Torishima rejected that idea, he made the robot a girl, knowing Torishima would find her \"cute\". He also stated that Senbei was supposed to be the main character, but his editor told him to make it Arale instead, which Toriyama agrees turned out better. The act of having Senbei and Midori get married came from having nothing else to draw that week, and it happened quickly because he does not like romance. He went on to state that Torishima does enjoy romance, and that the relationships of Arale and Obotchaman, Akane and Tsukutsun, and Taro and Tsururin were all Torishima's ideas.\n\nToriyama did not expect \"Dr. Slump\" to last long, as even before it debuted Torishima was asking him what he would draw for his next series. However, it lasted for roughly five years. When Toriyama began \"Dr. Slump\", he worked at home, where he lived with his parents, and had one assistant who worked one day a week. Toriyama has said several times that he typically would not have any ideas for the story for that week's chapter, but would think up something as soon as Torishima called asking. He thought up each week's story as he drew and sent the rough draft to Torishima at \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" headquarters in Tokyo by air courier from Nagoya Airport. After getting the approval of his editor, he began by drawing the lines that stick out of the frames, then the frames themselves, before using a g-pen to draw clear crisp lines at roughly one page an hour. After he had around eight pages finished, his assistant (also known as ) came over, although Toriyama stated he only allowed him to color. For color pages, Toriyama first drew them with permanent ink and used water-soluble color pens, before touching up with a wet brush. Later in serialization (around volume 13, as stated in volume 18), became his assistant when Hiswashi started his own series, although Hiswashi occasionally still helped out, as did Toriyama's wife when they were close to a deadline.\n\nIn 2016, Torishima said that although \"Dr. Slump\" was very successful, having debuted at number two in the magazine's reader rankings, Toriyama wanted to stop it after about six months. He explained that because it was a self-contained comedy each week, if something did not work, the author had to change everything. Torishima said that because it was a top-ranking series, would regularly sell a million copies, and had an anime about to begin, \"Jump\" and Shueisha would not allow it to end. However, Torishima claimed the magazine's chief editor told him that if they could come up with something more interesting and successful then they could. In order to have time to discuss new ideas they had to adjust the weekly schedule, finishing a \"Dr. Slump\" chapter in five days instead of seven. Toriyama stated that one of the conditions he agreed to that allowed him to end the popular \"Dr. Slump\", was that he start his next series relatively soon after. He began \"Dragon Ball\" roughly three months later.\n\nIn his own words, Toriyama described the scenery of \"Dr. Slump\" as having an \"American West Coast\" feel. Torishima recalled that when he asked Toriyama why he drew relatively sparse backgrounds, his reply was simply that it was easier that way. However, Toriyama has stated that he was particular about the art, working more hours on it than he would later on \"Dragon Ball\". In an actual chapter of \"Dr. Slump\", where Toriyama and Matsuyama appear, it was revealed that Matsuyama draws most of the backgrounds and houses. Toriyama often used colored paper, a technique fairly common in design, but less-so in manga. He stated that the tournament-type events, such as the Penguin Village Grand Prix and the kick the can contest, were popular with readers and inspired the Tenkaichi Budōkai in \"Dragon Ball\".\n\nTorishima described the \"Dr. Slump\" anime as unsuccessful in his opinion because it did not loyally follow the manga. He said this was because it was the first time the \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" team had to manage an anime based on one of their manga and its creative process, explaining that, if something went wrong, it was too late to change because it was already animated.\n\nAkira Toriyama's \"Dr. Slump\" was originally serialized in \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" from issue No. 5/6 on February 4, 1980 to No. 39 on September 10, 1984. Its 236 individual chapters were collected into 18 \"tankōbon\" volumes under the \"Jump Comics\" imprint. It was reassembled as a 9-volume \"aizōban\" edition in 1990, a 9-volume \"bunkoban\" edition in 1995, and a 15-volume \"kanzenban\" edition in 2006. Viz Media licensed the series for North America in 2004, and published the first volume on March 3, 2005 with translation done by Alexander O. Smith and some censorship. All 18 original volumes have been released in North America as of May 5, 2009.\n\nAfter \"Dr. Slump\" ended in 1984, its characters returned for an extended cameo in Toriyama's next series \"Dragon Ball\", in which Arale and Son Goku briefly team up to defeat General Blue during the Red Ribbon Army storyline. A \"Dr. Slump\" follow-up manga was written by Takao Koyama and illustrated by Katsuyoshi Nakatsuru, with supervision by Toriyama. It was serialized in \"V Jump\" from February 21, 1993 to September 1996 under the title . It was collected into four \"tankōbon\" volumes.\n\nTo promote the release of the first \"Dr. Slump - Arale-chan\" anime DVD box set, Akira Toriyama illustrated a special one-shot colored spin-off manga titled published in the April 2007 issue of \"Monthly Shōnen Jump\". The story centers around an evil counterpart of Arale created by Dr. Mashirito Jr., named Abale.\n\nThe \"Dr. Slump\" manga was adapted into two separate anime television series by Toei Animation, both of which aired on Fuji TV. The first, , ran from April 8, 1981 to February 19, 1986 and spanned 243 episodes. The second anime, simply titled , ran from November 26, 1997 to September 22, 1999 and lasted seventy-four episodes.\n\nThe first anime was released on home video for the first time in 2007, remastered, in two 22-disc DVD sets; on March 23, which contains the first 120 episodes, and on September 14, which contains the remainder. Likewise, the second series was released the following year as \"Slump the Box 90's\" on March 21. The first anime was then released in twenty 2-disc sets (the last was 3-disc) of roughly twelve episodes each, titled \"Slump the Collection\"; the first three sets on October 9, 2008, the next five on November 28, the next six on December 21, and the last six on January 30, 2009. The first episode of the original anime was adapted into English by Harmony Gold USA in 1984, but the pilot was never picked up.\n\nToei has also created eleven animated films based on \"Dr. Slump\", beginning with \"Hello! Wonder Island\" on July 18, 1981. They continued to produce one film a year until 1985; \"\"Hoyoyo!\" Space Adventure\" on July 10, 1982, \"Dr. Slump and Arale-chan: Hoyoyo! The Great Race Around the World\" on March 13, 1983, \"Dr. Slump and Arale-chan: Hoyoyo! The Secret of Nanaba Castle\" on December 22, 1984, and \"Dr. Slump and Arale-chan: Hoyoyo! The City of Dreams, Mechapolis\" on July 13, 1985.\n\nIn 1993, \"Dr. Slump and Arale-chan: N-cha! Clear Skies Over Penguin Village\" and \"Dr. Slump and Arale-chan: N-cha! From Penguin Village with Love\" were released on March 6 and July 10 respectively. In 1994, \"Dr. Slump and Arale-chan: Hoyoyo!! Follow the Rescued Shark...\" and \"Dr. Slump and Arale-chan: N-cha!! Excited Heart of Summer Vacation\" were released on March 12 and July 9 respectively. On March 6, 1999, \"Arale's Surprise Burn\" was produced.\n\nToriyama's 2007 one-shot was adapted into a five-minute short titled \"Dr. Slump: Dr. Mashirito and Abale-chan\" that was shown alongside the theatrically released \"\". In 2008, all eleven films were released in a remastered DVD box set titled \"Slump the Box Movies\" on September 21. On June 12, 2013, Discotek Media announced they acquired the first five \"Dr. Slump\" films for release in North America. They released all five in a two-disc DVD box set in Japanese with English subtitles on July 29, 2014.\n\nA series of three \"Dr. Slump - Arale-chan\" video games called , and , by Animest was released as Game & Watch clones in 1982. A \"Dr. Slump\" video game was released in 1983 for the Arcadia 2001. was released for the NEC PC-6001 in 1984 by Enix. An action game, simply titled , for the PlayStation based on the second television series was released on March 18, 1999 by Bandai. was released on October 30, 2008 for the Nintendo DS. Arale appears in the 1988 Famicom game \"\". In the Nintendo DS game \"Jump Super Stars\", Arale and Dr. Mashirito are player characters, while Senbei appears as a support character. They both return in the sequel, \"Jump Ultimate Stars\" while Senbei, Midori, Gatchan, Obotchaman and Unchi-kun are support characters. Arale appears as a playable character in \"J-Stars Victory VS\".\n\nArale appears in several \"Dragon Ball\" video games as well. She and several other \"Dr. Slump\" characters appear in \"\", she alone is a hidden battle in \"Dragon Ball 3: Goku Den\", and she and Senbei briefly appear in \"Dragon Ball Z: Super Goku Den — Totsugeki-Hen\". Arale is a playable character, and Penguin Village is a playable map, in \"\" for the PlayStation 2 and Wii. In the PS2 game \"Super Dragon Ball Z\", Suppaman appears in the background of the city level; after breaking the porta-potty, Suppaman will roll off on his skateboard. Finally, Arale can be unlocked as a playable character in \"\" for the Wii, \"\" for the DS, and \"Dragon Ball Fusions\" for the Nintendo 3DS.\n\nThere have been several light novels based on \"Dr. Slump\". The first two, released in July 1981 and released in April 1982, were written by Masaki Tsuji, who also wrote for the anime adaptation. A novel written by Shun'ichi Yukimuro and based on the second movie was released on July 15, 1982. and , released on October 1989 and June 27, 1997 respectively, are original works written by Genichiro Takahashi, but draw from the world of \"Dr. Slump\".\n\nA radio drama adaptation was broadcast at around the same time the anime was airing. Arale was voiced by Yuko Hara, keyboardist of the popular rock band Southern All Stars.\n\nIn 2014, two commercials featuring \"Dr. Slump\" were created by Toei for Suzuki. The commercials advertise the car manufacturer's Kei SUV Hustler and include new acting from Mami Koyama as Arale and Kumiko Nishihara as Gatchan.\n\nIn celebration of the anime adaptation's 35th anniversary, the \"Dr. Slump - Arale-chan N'Cha! Best\" album containing music from the series was released on June 1, 2016.\n\nAs of 2008, the collected volumes of \"Dr. Slump\" had sold over 35 million copies in Japan alone. Only a year after its debut, the series was awarded the 1981 Shogakukan Manga Award for \"shōnen\" and \"shōjo\" manga. Viz Media's North American release of the first volume of \"Dr. Slump\" was nominated for the 2005 Quill Award in the Graphic Novel category. The first anime adaptation of \"Dr. Slump\" was also popular, holding the coveted Saturday 6pm timeslot for five years. With a 36.9% average household rating, its December 16, 1981 episode is the third most watched anime since the television ratings group Video Research began keeping track on September 26, 1977. In 1982, it was voted the 13th Favorite Anime in Japanese magazine \"Animage\"s fourth annual Anime Grand Prix. In 2001, \"Animage\" ranked it number 48 on its list of the Top 100 Anime. TV Asahi released two Top 100 Anime lists in 2005, in the web poll \"Dr. Slump\" ranked number 34, while a nationwide poll of multiple age groups named it number 29. The following year, a list created from polling 100 celebrities had it in the 25th position. A running gag in \"Dr. Slump\" that utilizes feces has been reported as an inspiration for the Pile of Poo emoji. Ian Jones-Quartey, a former producer of the American animated series \"Steven Universe\" and creator of \"OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes\", is a fan of \"Dragon Ball\" and \"Dr. Slump\", and uses Toriyama's vehicle designs as reference for his own. He also stated that \"We're all big Toriyama fans on [\"Steven Universe\"], which kind of shows a bit.\"\n\nMike Toole of Anime News Network called \"Dr. Slump\" \"the greatest manga of all time\", filled with \"parody, gags, and fart jokes that everyone from toddlers to grandparents can enjoy together\". Jason Thompson referred to \"Dr. Slump\" as the best series Toriyama has created, claiming it is better drawn and more creative than \"Dragon Ball\". He also reports that it is considered \"the last non-manufactured hit\" by many in the Japanese manga industry, particularity among \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" titles. In their review, \"Publishers Weekly\" stated \"Toriyama has created his own demented sitcom, and his fantastic imagination and comic invention never let up\", \"The [English] translation is a bit flat, but the uncommonly good storytelling more than makes up for it.\" Eduardo M. Chavez of Mania Entertainment summarized \"Dr. Slump\" as a \"quirky slap-stick comedy entirely based in fantasy.\" He thinks that while Toriyama's usual art style uses \"SD\" characters, \"Dr. Slump\" also shows hints that he can draw realistic. He noted that \"little nuances\", particularity puns, are lost in translation from Japanese to English and expressed disdain for Viz's censorship, saying it took away from the honesty of the series. Chavez feels that what the characters do never crosses the line into inappropriate; \"The jokes might not be wholesome, but they are genuinely funny and harmless\"; and went on to say that the series fills the void for \"all ages manga\" in bookstores and libraries. \n\nReviewing the first five movies, Carl Kimlinger of Anime News Network summarized \"Dr. Slump\" as \"random silly adventures [...] delivered with a lot of surreal nonsense humor, only the most basic sense of continuity, and not a whiff of substance or seriousness.\" He felt that much of the humor comes simply from the visuals; stating that the vintage hand-done art and animation provide a \"warmth\" and \"raises Slump's visuals above\" other anime. However, he called the background music \"non-descript\" and stated that the films are only for viewers who are familiar with the series, as they provide no exposition.\n\n"}
{"id": "19457425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19457425", "title": "Encyclopedia of the Harlem Renaissance", "text": "Encyclopedia of the Harlem Renaissance\n\nThe Encyclopedia of the Harlem Renaissance (Facts On File Publishing and ) by Sandra L. West and Aberjhani, is a 2003 encyclopedia of the lives, events, and culture of the Harlem Renaissance of the 1920s to 1940s. An ebook edition was published through Infobase Publishing in 2010.\n\nIn addition to the hundreds of articles written by West and Aberjhani, the Encyclopedia also includes an extended foreword by Clement Alexander Price. The founder and director of the Institute on Ethnicity, Culture, and the Modern Experience at Rutgers University, Dr. Price in 2013 was appointed by Barack Obama to the presidential advisory council on historic preservation. Other key contributors to the volume are: Iris Formey Dawson, Vaughnette Goode-Walker, Ja A. Jahannes, Karen E. Johnson, and Mary C. Lewis.\n\nAcknowledged as the first encyclopedic volume on the subject, \"Encyclopedia of the Harlem Renaissance\" upon publication received generally favorable reviews. \"Essence Magazine\" featured the title in its Christmas and Kwanzaa gift-giving guide, the \"Times of Trenton\" described it as, \"a fascinating guide to a colorful and culturally productive era in African-American history,\" and the \"Rudolph Fisher Newsletter\" called it, \"an outstanding reference resource highly recommended for libraries of all sizes.\" In February 2006, \"Black Issues Book Review\" voted the encyclopedia one of its “essential titles for the home library.” In addition, both the American Reference Books Annual, and Libraries Unlimited’s Recommended Reference Books for Small and Medium-sized Libraries and Media Centers, list the Encyclopedia among its highly suggested titles. \n\nAwards it has received include the Choice Academic Title Award, the “Best History Book Award”, and the \"New Jersey Notable Book Award\" 1999-2005.\n\nSince its initial hard copy release in paperback and hardback editions in 2003, Encyclopedia of the Harlem Renaissance has prompted an increase in studies of the Jazz Age era . Some of these studies have taken the form of novels and plays set in the era while others have resulted in new biographies of key players in the renaissance. In addition to being cited in numerous scholarly journals the encyclopedia has also become a resource for diverse authors who continue to expand and extend the field of study. The following is a partial list of titles that reference the volume: \n\n\nBeginning with the 2011 essay titled “The Approaching 100th Anniversary of the Harlem Renaissance” the encyclopedia has been a key document in the call for official international commemorations of the Harlem Renaissance Centennial. \n\n"}
{"id": "20812644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20812644", "title": "Global China Connection", "text": "Global China Connection\n\nGlobal China Connection or GCC (Mandarin Chinese: 全球中国联接) is a student-run 501(c)(3) non-profit organization for university students and young professionals of all nationalities to engage China’s emergence in the world. GCC connects future leaders from all nations and assists them in developing the skills and friendships necessary to succeed both in China and internationally. GCC is today present in more than sixty top universities in North America, Asia, Europe, and Oceania, including Harvard University, Yale University, Princeton University, University of Pennsylvania, New York University, Columbia University, Cornell University. With its geographic reach, GCC connect thousands of students, recent-graduates, and professionals that are interested in China. Every year, GCC hosts hundreds of local, regional, national, and international events. GCC's main activities include hosting delegations of university students, China-focused social and professional events, and annual summits in China and the United States. The official languages of GCC are English and Mandarin Chinese. Global China Connection was founded in 2008 at Columbia University with a motto \"Building relationships that will change the world\".\n\nGCC's structure is divided into two components: GCC Central Management and Chapter Network. GCC Central Management manages overall communication and strategic activities, directs the network, and coordinates most of the organization's larger international events. The Chapter Network consists of individual GCC university chapters. Each chapter is governed by their own presidents and executive boards.\n\nAt the top level, GCC is governed by a board of trustees (highly distinguished GCC members) and senior advisers (highly distinguished individuals outside of GCC).\n\nGCC events connect companies, social organizations, and individuals through annual conferences as well as smaller scale forums. The organization hosts two major conferences each year, generally in New York City (spring) and Beijing (summer). Conferences contain discussion on subjects such as politics, economics, international relations, business, journalism, and culture related to China. Smaller conferences and events are also hosted by chapters within GCC.\n\nPrevious speakers at GCC conferences include:\n\nThe smaller forums are based on subjects such as China's sustainable development/environmental protection challenges; the stimulus packages passed by China and the U.S.; the current state of the American media; U.S.-China relations; and China's developing capital markets.\n\nGCC hosts and leads numerous student delegations in both the United States and China. GCC generally collaborates with student association partners such as the Western Returned Scholars Association, the Students International Communication Association of Peking University (SICA), as well as student government groups, in managing these events. GCC delegations have visited companies such as J.P. Morgan Chase, Ernst & Young, Pricewaterhouse Coopers, Microsoft, The New York Times, Baidu, and Lenovo.\n\nGlobal China Connection's partners include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36715796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36715796", "title": "Goji Electronics", "text": "Goji Electronics\n\nGoji Electronics, Inc. is a producer of computer, smartphone, audio products and equipment headquartered in Hemel Hempstead, United Kingdom. The audio division of the company was founded by grime artist and entrepreneur Tinchy Stryder and DSG International plc president Lord Kalms, and primarily produces products under the brand \"Goji Tinchy Stryder\".\n\nSince the inception of Goji, its products have been distributed by Dixons Carphone plc and its predecessor DSG International plc. The collaboration between Dixons and Kwasi Danquah III leads to an expansion of Goji Electronics into the headphones and audio equipment market.\n\nStryder, Lord Kalms and Dixons Carphone plc all own shares in Goji.\n\nThe company was founded in December 2011, and debuted its first product, consumer electronics accessories, in early 2012. Goji Electronics inception was made with DSG International plc granted exclusive rights to manufacture and develop Goji-branded products. With DSG International handling production of the products, Lord Kalms and Kwasi Danquah III are free to handle promoting the new line. Goji intends to primarily rely on celebrity endorsements, particularly by popular professional athletes, popular musicians, to help market the line to a demographic of fashion-conscious young men and women.\n\nIn June 2012, Goji Electronics expanded it products into the lifestyle, music technology, travel – and with audio equipment. The Goji accessories for computers and smartphones were also expanded in June 2012, inline with the introduction of Danquah's headphones and audio equipment products. The percentage of stakes between the shareholders of Goji Electronics are not disclosed.\n\nOn August 10, 2012, \"Goji On Cloud 9\" audio equipment and \"Goji Tinchy Stryder\" headphones were distributed by over 600 retailers in the United Kingdom, by DSG International plc subsidiaries in Europe, and globally by DSG International owned Pixmania.\n\nThe original product line of Goji were consumer electronics such as tablet computer, netbook and smartphone accessories. The headphones and audio equipment product line of Goji were introduced as \"Goji Tinchy Stryder\" headphones and \"Goji On Cloud 9\" audio.\n\nTinchy Stryder provides creative direction on the development of the 'Goji Tinchy Stryder: On Cloud 9' product range, encompassing headphones, travel speakers and audio equipment, and outlined in promotional materials that with current headphones, the look and pricing of headphones are not as flexible in value as people would like, and with Goji, its looks, audio quality, pricing and value flexibility will make Goji headphones and audio products a serious contender in the overall music technology market. Kwasi Danquah III added: \"Goji Electronics has been the perfect partner for me to work with on this project – the team I'm working with are amazing and we clicked right from the start. I couldn't wait to get the products out there as I’m sure people are going to love the sound – which it was really important to me that we got right – and the design of the goods too\".\n\nInline with Goji headphones and audio equipment, it has also plans to license the Goji-brand and technology to other major information technology and automotive manufacturers. Goji Electronics planned to begin offering personal computers and tablet computer equipped with \"Goji On Cloud 9 Audio\" systems, which will feature advanced technological characteristics and software.\n\nFollowing the expansion of accessories for computers, tablet computers, laptops and smartphones in June 2012, Goji Electronics along with a future release of personal computers and tablet computers equipped with \"Goji On Cloud 9 Audio\" systems, also planned to begin releasing smartphones enabled with a \"Goji On Cloud 9 Audio\" technology in collaboration with major telecommunications equipment manufacturers.\n\n"}
{"id": "54910567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54910567", "title": "Horn effect", "text": "Horn effect\n\nThe horn effect, closely related to the halo effect, is a form of cognitive bias that causes one's perception of another to be unduly influenced by a single negative trait. An example of the horn effect may be that an observer is more likely to assume a physically unattractive person is morally inferior to an attractive person, despite the lack of relationship between morality and physical appearance.\n\nThe term is derived from the English word \"horn\" and refers to the devil's horns. This is in contrast to the word halo and the halo effect, based on the concept of a saint's halo.\n\nIn a 1920 study published by Thorndike that focused on the halo effect, it was noted that \"ratings were apparently affected by a marked tendency to think of the person in general as rather good or rather inferior and to color the judgments of the qualities by this general feeling\".\n\nIt is sometimes called the \"horns effect\", \"reverse-halo effect\", or \"devil effect\".\n\nThe horn effect occurs when \"individuals believe that negative traits are connected to each other.\" It is a phenomenon in which an observer's judgment of a person is adversely affected by the presence of (for the observer) an unfavorable aspect of this person.\n\n"}
{"id": "2601315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2601315", "title": "Hufu", "text": "Hufu\n\nHufu, a now fictional product, was briefly marketed as tofu designed to resemble human flesh in taste and texture. The tongue-in-cheek Hufu website was in existence from May 2005 to June 2006. The creators claimed that Milla Jovovich coined the term after hearing about the product's development while on the Eurostar from London to Paris.\n\nHufu was touted as \"the healthy human flesh alternative\" for \"cannibals who want to quit\", as well as a product for anthropology students studying cannibalism. According to its website, hufu is also \"a great convenience food for cannibals. No more Friday night hunting raids! Stay home and enjoy the good healthy taste of hufu.\"\n\nMark Nuckols (founder and CEO of Hufu, LLC)—then a student at Tuck School of Business—claimed that the concept of Hufu occurred to him when he ate a tofurkey sandwich while reading \"Good To Eat: Riddles of Food and Culture\", a book on cannibalism by anthropologist Marvin Harris. Nuckols is also an honors JD graduate of Georgetown University Law Center.\n\nSamantha Bee of \"The Daily Show\" interviewed Nuckols. In the interview, he said \"I think that a lot of the pleasure of eating the Hufu product, is imagining you're eating human flesh. For that moment, you can join the fraternity of cannibals... If you really want to come as close as possible to the experience of cannibalism, Hufu is your best option.\" Nuckols was also interviewed by a variety of radio and print media, including \"The Harvard Crimson\" and \"The Stanford Daily\". Stuff You Should Know, a podcast from HowStuffWorks.com, touched on Hufu during the introduction of the \"How the Donner Party Worked\" episode in March, 2012.\n\nThe Hufu home page eathufu.com closed as of mid-2006. According to Mark Nuckols, he closed the website simply because \"the world has moved on past hufu, and the site was more expensive to run than it was worth.\" The web design studio that created the site maintains a case history illustrating the design concepts that were present in the site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12721996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12721996", "title": "Human figure", "text": "Human figure\n\nIn aesthetics, the human figure or human form in art, sculpture and other art forms involves a study and appreciation of the beauty of the human body in its depiction or presentation. The study involves an appreciation of the body shape, including body postures - sitting, standing or even sleeping, and movements - walking, running, dancing etc. Kant refers to the human figure as the ideal of beauty. The human figure conforms very well to the law that states that form follows function, which is believed to be a result of evolution over thousands of generations.\n\nThe human figure is one of the most enduring themes in the visual arts. Very few art forms are not related to human figure such as music, though it figures in lyrics. A study of the human figure includes a detailed study of the following subjects:\n\n\"Body proportions\" are the study of relation of human body, or in general, animal body, parts to each other and the whole, essential for depiction of the overall figure.\n\nA figure drawing is a study of the human form in its various shapes and postures. It is a study or stylized depiction of the human form, with the line and form of the human figure as the primary objective, rather than the subject person. It is a composed image of the subject in a still position. A life drawing is a work that has been drawn from an observation of a live model. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "227107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227107", "title": "Intellectual", "text": "Intellectual\n\nAn intellectual is a person who engages in critical thinking, research, and reflection about society and proposes solutions for its normative problems, and gain authority as public intellectuals. Coming from the world of culture, either as a creator or as a mediator, the intellectual participates in politics either to defend a concrete proposition or to denounce an injustice, usually by rejecting, producing or extending an ideology, and by defending a system of values.\n\nSocially, intellectuals constitute the intelligentsia, a status class organised either by ideology (conservative, fascist, socialist, liberal, reactionary, revolutionary, democratic, communist intellectuals, \"et al.\"), or by nationality (American intellectuals, French intellectuals, Ibero–American intellectuals, \"et al.\"). The contemporary intellectual class originated from the \"intelligentsiya\" of Tsarist Russia (–1870s), the social stratum of those possessing intellectual formation (schooling, education, Enlightenment), and who were Russian society's counterpart to the German \"Bildungsbürgertum\" and to the French \"bourgeoisie éclairée\", the enlightened middle classes of those realms.\n\nIn the late 19th century, amidst the Dreyfus affair (1894–1906), an identity crisis of anti-semitic nationalism for the French Third Republic (1870–1940), the reactionary anti–Dreyfusards (Maurice Barrès, Ferdinand Brunetière, \"et al.\") used the terms \"intellectual\" and \"the intellectuals\" to deride the liberal Dreyfusards (Émile Zola, Octave Mirbeau, Anatole France, \"et al.\") as political dilettantes from the realms of French culture, art, and science, who had become involved in politics, by publicly advocating for the exoneration and liberation of Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish French artillery captain falsely accused of betraying France to Germany.\n\nIn the 20th century, the term \"Intellectual\" acquired positive connotations of social prestige, derived from possessing intellect and intelligence, especially when the intellectual's activities exerted positive consequences in the public sphere and so increased the intellectual understanding of the public, by means of moral responsibility, altruism, and solidarity, without resorting to the manipulations of demagoguery, paternalism, and incivility (condescension). Hence, for the educated person of a society, participating in the public sphere—the political affairs of the city-state—is a civic responsibility dating from the Græco–Latin Classical era:\n\nThe determining factor for \"a Thinker\" (historian, philosopher, scientist, writer, artist, \"et al.\") to be considered a public intellectual is the degree to which he or she is implicated and engaged with the vital reality of the contemporary world; that is to say, participation in the public affairs of society. Consequently, being designated as a public intellectual is determined by the degree of influence of the designator's motivations, opinions, and options of action (social, political, ideological), and by affinity with the given thinker; therefore:\n\nAnalogously, the application and the conceptual value of the terms \"Intellectual\" and \"the Intellectuals\" are socially negative when the practice of intellectuality is exclusively in service to The Establishment who wield power in a society, as such:\n\nNoam Chomsky's negative view of the Establishment Intellectual suggests the existence of another kind of intellectual one might call \"the public intellectual,\" which is:\n\nThe intellectual is a type of intelligent person, who is associated with reason and critical thinking. Many everyday roles require the application of intelligence to skills that may have a psychomotor component, for example, in the fields of medicine or the arts, but these do not necessarily involve the practitioner in the \"world of ideas\". The distinctive quality of the intellectual person is that the mental skills, which one demonstrates, are not simply intelligent, but even more, they focus on thinking about the abstract, philosophical and esoteric aspects of human inquiry and the value of their thinking.\n\nThe intellectual and the scholarly classes are related; the intellectual usually is not a teacher involved in the production of scholarship, but has an academic background, and works in a profession, practices an art, or a science. The intellectual person is one who applies critical thinking and reason in either a professional or a personal capacity, and so has authority in the public sphere of their society; the term \"intellectual\" identifies three types of person, one who:\n\n\nThe term \"man of letters\" derives from the French term \"belletrist\" or \"homme de lettres\" but is not synonymous with \"an academic\". A \"man of letters\" was a literate man (\"able to read and write\") as opposed to an illiterate man, in a time when literacy was a rare form of cultural capital. In the 17th and 18th centuries, the \"Belletrists\" were the \"literati\", the French \"citizens of the Republic of Letters\", which evolved into the salon, a social institution, usually run by a hostess, meant for the edification, education, and cultural refinement of the participants.\n\nIn English, the term \"intellectual\" identifies a \"literate thinker\"; its earlier usage, as in the book title \"The Evolution of an Intellectual\" (1920), by John Middleton Murry, denotes literary activity, rather than the activities of the public intellectual.\n\nIn the late 19th century, when literacy was relatively common in European countries such as the United Kingdom, the \"Man of Letters\" (\"littérateur\") denotation broadened to mean \"specialized\", a man who earned his living writing intellectually (not creatively) about literature: the essayist, the journalist, the critic, et al. In the 20th century, such an approach was gradually superseded by the academic method, and the term \"Man of Letters\" became disused, replaced by the generic term \"intellectual\", describing the intellectual person. In late 19th century, the term \"intellectual\" became common usage to denote the defenders of the falsely accused artillery officer Alfred Dreyfus.\n\nIn early 19th century Britain, Samuel Taylor Coleridge coined the term \"clerisy\", the intellectual class responsible for upholding and maintaining the national culture, the secular equivalent of the Anglican clergy. Likewise, in Tsarist Russia, there arose the \"intelligentsia\" (1860s–70s), who were the status class of white-collar workers. The theologian Alister McGrath said that \"the emergence of a socially alienated, theologically literate, antiestablishment lay intelligentsia is one of the more significant phenomena of the social history of Germany in the 1830s\", and that \"three or four theological graduates in ten might hope to find employment\" in a church post. As such, politically radical thinkers already had participated in the French Revolution (1789–1799); Robert Darnton said that they were not societal outsiders, but \"respectable, domesticated, and assimilated\".\n\nThenceforth, in Europe, an intellectual class was socially important, especially to self-styled intellectuals, whose participation in society's arts, politics, journalism, and education—of either nationalist, internationalist, or ethnic sentiment—constitute \"vocation of the intellectual\". Moreover, some intellectuals were anti-academic, despite universities (the Academy) being synonymous with intellectualism.\n\nIn France, the Dreyfus affair marked the full emergence of the \"intellectual in public life\", especially Émile Zola, Octave Mirbeau, and Anatole France directly addressing the matter of French antisemitism to the public; thenceforward, \"intellectual\" became common, yet occasionally derogatory, usage; its French noun usage is attributed to Georges Clemenceau in 1898.\n\nHabermas' \"Structural Transformation of Public Sphere\" (1963) made significant contribution to the notion of public intellectual by historically and conceptually delineating the idea of private and public.\n\nIn Imperial China, in the period from 206 BC until AD 1912, the intellectuals were the \"Scholar-officials\" (\"Scholar-gentlemen\"), who were civil servants appointed by the Emperor of China to perform the tasks of daily governance. Such civil servants earned academic degrees by means of imperial examination, and also were skilled calligraphers, and knew Confucian philosophy. Historian Wing-Tsit Chan concludes that:\n\nIn Joseon Korea (1392–1910), the intellectuals were the \"literati\", who knew how to read and write, and had been designated, as the chungin (the \"middle people\"), in accordance with the Confucian system. Socially, they constituted the petite bourgeoisie, composed of scholar-bureaucrats (scholars, professionals, and technicians) who administered the dynastic rule of the Joseon dynasty.\n\nAddressing their role as a social class, Jean-Paul Sartre said that intellectuals are the moral conscience of their age; that their moral and ethical responsibilities are to observe the socio-political moment, and to freely speak to their society, in accordance with their consciences. Like Sartre and Noam Chomsky, public intellectuals usually are polymaths, knowledgeable of the international order of the world, the political and economic organization of contemporary society, the institutions and laws that regulate the lives of the layman citizen, the educational systems, and the private networks of mass communication media that control the broadcasting of information to the public.\n\nWhereas, intellectuals (political scientists and sociologists), liberals, and democratic socialists usually hold, advocate, and support the principles of democracy (liberty, equality, fraternity, human rights, social justice, social welfare, environmental conservation), and the improvement of socio-political relations in domestic and international politics, the conservative public-intellectuals usually defend the social, economic, and political \"status quo\" as the realisation of the \"perfect ideals\" of Platonism, and present a static dominant ideology, in which utopias are unattainable and politically destabilizing of society.\n\nIn Marxist philosophy, the social class function of the intellectuals (the intelligentsia) is to be the source of progressive ideas for the transformation of society; to provide advice and counsel to the political leaders; to interpret the country's politics to the mass of the population (urban workers and peasants); and, as required, to provide leaders from within their own ranks.\n\nThe Italian Communist theoretician Antonio Gramsci (1891–1937) developed Karl Marx's conception of the intelligentsia to include political leadership in the public sphere. That, because \"all knowledge is existentially-based\", the intellectuals, who create and preserve knowledge, are \"spokesmen for different social groups, and articulate particular social interests\". That intellectuals occur in each social class and throughout the right wing, the centre, and the left wing of the political spectrum. That, as a social class, the \"intellectuals view themselves as autonomous from the ruling class\" of their society. That, in the course of class struggle meant to achieve political power, every social class requires a native intelligentsia who shape the ideology (world view) particular to the social class from which they originated. Therefore, the leadership of intellectuals is required for effecting and realizing social change, because:\n\nIn the pamphlet \"What Is to Be Done?\" (1902), Lenin (1870–1924) said that vanguard-party revolution required the participation of the intellectuals to explain the complexities of socialist ideology to the uneducated proletariat and the urban industrial workers, in order to integrate them to the revolution; because \"the history of all countries shows that the working class, exclusively by its own efforts, is able to develop only trade-union consciousness\", and will settle for the limited, socio-economic gains so achieved. In Russia, as in Continental Europe, Socialist theory was the product of the \"educated representatives of the propertied classes\", of \"revolutionary socialist intellectuals\", such as were Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.\n\nIn the formal codification of Leninism, the Hungarian Marxist philosopher, György Lukács (1885–1971) identified the intelligentsia as the privileged social class who provide revolutionary leadership. By means of intelligible and accessible interpretation, the intellectuals explain to the workers and peasants the \"Who?\", the \"How?\", and the \"Why?\" of the social, economic, and political \"status quo\"—the ideological totality of society—and its practical, revolutionary application to the transformation of their society.\n\nThe term public intellectual describes the intellectual participating in the public-affairs discourse of society, in addition to an academic career. Regardless of the academic field or the professional expertise, the public intellectual addresses and responds to the normative problems of society, and, as such, is expected to be an impartial critic who can \"rise above the partial preoccupation of one's own profession—and engage with the global issues of truth, judgment, and taste of the time.\" In \"Representations of the Intellectual\" (1994), In summarizing a quote by Edward Saïd, Jennings and Kemp-Welch state that the \"… true intellectual is, therefore, always an outsider, living in self-imposed exile, and on the margins of society\".\n\nAn intellectual usually is associated with an ideology or with a philosophy; e.g., the Third Way centrism of Anthony Giddens in the Labour Government of Tony Blair. The Czech intellectual Václav Havel said that politics and intellectuals can be linked, but that moral responsibility for the intellectual's ideas, even when advocated by a politician, remains with the intellectual. Therefore, it is best to avoid utopian intellectuals who offer 'universal insights' to resolve the problems of political economy with public policies that might harm and that have harmed civil society; that intellectuals be mindful of the social and cultural ties created with their words, insights, and ideas; and should be heard as social critics of politics and power.\n\nThe American academic Peter H. Smith describes the intellectuals of Latin America as people from an identifiable social class, who have been conditioned by that common experience, and thus are inclined to share a set of common assumptions (values and ethics); that ninety-four per cent of intellectuals come either from the middle class or from the upper class, and that only six per cent come from the working class. In \"The Intellectual\" (2005), philosopher Steven Fuller said that, because cultural capital confers power and social status, as a status group, they must be autonomous in order to be credible as intellectuals:\n\nThe political importance and effective consequence of Émile Zola in the Dreyfus affair (1894–1906) derived from his being a leading French thinker; thus, \"J'accuse\" (I Accuse), his open letter to the French government and the nation proved critical to achieving the exoneration of Captain Alfred Dreyfus of the false charges of treason, which were facilitated by institutional anti-Semitism, among other ideological defects of the French Establishment.\n\nIn journalism, the term \"intellectual\" usually connotes \"a university academic\" of the humanities—especially a philosopher—who addresses important social and political matters of the day. Hence, such an academic functions as a public intellectual who explains the theoretic bases of said problems and communicates possible answers to the policy makers and executive leaders of society. The sociologist Frank Furedi said that \"Intellectuals are not defined according to the jobs they do, but [by] the manner in which they act, the way they see themselves, and the [social and political] values that they uphold. Public intellectuals usually arise from the educated élite of a society; although the North American usage of the term \"intellectual\" includes the university academics. The difference between \"intellectual\" and \"academic\" is participation in the realm of public affairs.\n\nIn the matters of public policy, the public intellectual connects scholarly research to the practical matters of solving societal problems. The British sociologist Michael Burawoy, an exponent of public sociology, said that professional sociology has failed, by giving insufficient attention to resolving social problems, and that a dialogue between the academic and the layman would bridge the gap. An example is how Chilean intellectuals worked to reestablish democracy within the right-wing, neoliberal governments of the Military dictatorship of Chile (1973–90), the Pinochet régime allowed professional opportunities for some liberal and left-wing social scientists to work as politicians and as consultants in effort to realize the theoretical economics of the Chicago Boys, but their access to power was contingent upon political pragmatism, abandoning the political neutrality of the academic intellectual.\n\nIn \"The Sociological Imagination\" (1959), C. Wright Mills said that academics had become ill-equipped for participating in public discourse, and that journalists usually are \"more politically alert and knowledgeable than sociologists, economists, and especially ... political scientists\". That, because the universities of the U.S. are bureaucratic, private businesses, they \"do not teach critical reasoning to the student\", who then does not \"how to gauge what is going on in the general struggle for power in modern society\". Likewise, Richard Rorty criticized the participation of intellectuals in public discourse as an example of the \"civic irresponsibility of intellect, especially academic intellect\".\n\nThe American legal scholar Richard Posner said that the participation of academic public intellectuals in the public life of society is characterized by logically untidy and politically biased statements of the kind that would be unacceptable to academia. That there are few ideologically and politically independent public intellectuals, and disapproves that public intellectuals limit themselves to practical matters of public policy, and not with values or public philosophy, or public ethics, or public theology, not with matters of moral and spiritual outrage.\n\nIn \"An Interview with Milton Friedman\" (1974), the American libertarian economist Milton Friedman said that businessmen and the intellectuals are enemies of capitalism; the intellectuals, because most believed in socialism, while the businessman expected economic privileges:\n\nIn \"The Intellectuals and Socialism\" (1949), the British libertarian economist Friedrich Hayek, said that \"journalists, teachers, ministers, lecturers, publicists, radio commentators, writers of fiction, cartoonists, and artists\", are the intellectual social class whose function is to communicate the complex and specialized knowledge of the scientist to the general public. That, in the twentieth century, the intellectuals were attracted to socialism and to social democracy, because the socialists offered \"broad visions; the spacious comprehension of the social order, as a whole, which a planned system promises\" and that such broad-vision philosophies \"succeeded in inspiring the imagination of the intellectuals\" to change and improve their societies.\n\nAccording to Hayek, intellectuals disproportionately support socialism for idealistic and utopian reasons that cannot be realized in practical terms. Nonetheless, in the article \"Why Socialism?\" (1949), Albert Einstein said that the economy of the world is not private property because it is a \"planetary community of production and consumption\". In U.S. society, the intellectual status class are demographically characterized as people who hold liberal-to-leftist political perspectives about guns-or-butter fiscal policy.\n\nIn \"The Heartless Lovers of Humankind\" (1987), the journalist and popular historian Paul Johnson said:\nThe public- and private-knowledge dichotomy originated in Ancient Greece, from Socrates's rejection of the Sophist concept that the pursuit of knowledge (truth) is a \"public market of ideas\", open to all men of the city, not only to philosophers. In contradiction to the Sophist's public market of knowledge, Socrates proposed a knowledge monopoly for and by the philosophers; thus, \"those who sought a more penetrating and rigorous intellectual life rejected, and withdrew from, the general culture of the city, in order to embrace a new model of professionalism\"; the private market of ideas.\n\nIn the 19th century, addressing the societal place, roles, and functions of intellectuals in American society, the Congregational theologian Edwards Amasa Park said, \"We do wrong to our own minds, when we carry out scientific difficulties down to the arena of popular dissension\". That for the stability of society (social, economic, political) it is necessary \"to separate the serious, technical role of professionals from their responsibility [for] supplying usable philosophies for the general public\"; thus operated Socrate's cultural dichotomy of public-knowledge and private-knowledge, of \"civic culture\" and \"professional culture\", the social constructs that describe and establish the intellectual sphere of life as separate and apart from the civic sphere of life.\n\nThe American historian Norman Stone said that the intellectual social class misunderstand the reality of society and so are doomed to the errors of logical fallacy, ideological stupidity, and poor planning hampered by ideology. In her memoirs, the Conservative politician Margaret Thatcher said that the anti-monarchical French Revolution (1789–1799) was \"a utopian attempt to overthrow a traditional order ... in the name of abstract ideas, formulated by vain intellectuals\". Yet, as Prime Minister, Thatcher asked Britain's academics to help her government resolve the social problems of British society—whilst she retained the populist opinion of \"The Intellectual\" as being a man of un-British character, a thinker, not a doer; Thatcher's anti-intellectualist perspective was shared by the mass media, especially \"The Spectator\" and \"The Sunday Telegraph\" newspapers, whose reportage documented a \"lack of intellectuals\" in Britain.\n\nIn his essay \"Why do intellectuals oppose capitalism?\" (1998), libertarian philosopher Robert Nozick of the Cato Institute argued that intellectuals become embittered leftists because their academic skills, much rewarded at school and at university, are under-valued and under-paid in the capitalist market economy; so, the intellectuals turned against capitalism—despite enjoying a more economically and financially comfortable life in a capitalist society than they might enjoy in either a socialist or a communist society.\n\nIn post-Communist Europe, the social attitude perception of the intelligentsia became anti-intellectual; in the Netherlands, the word \"intellectual\" negatively connotes an overeducated person of \"unrealistic visions of the World\". In Hungary, the intellectual is perceived as an \"egghead\", a person who is \"too-clever\" for the good of society. In the Czech Republic, the intellectual is a cerebral person, aloof from reality. Such derogatory connotations of \"intellectual\" are not definitive, because, in the \"case of English usage, positive, neutral, and pejorative uses can easily coexist\"; the example is Václav Havel who, \"to many outside observers, [became] a favoured instance of The Intellectual as National Icon\" in the early history of the post-Communist Czech Republic.\n\nIn the book, \"Intellectuals and Society\" (2010), the economist Thomas Sowell said that, lacking disincentives in professional life, the intellectual (producer of knowledge, not material goods) tends to speak outside his or her area of expertise, and expects social and professional benefits from the halo effect, derived from possessing professional expertise. That, in relation to other professions, the public intellectual is socially detached from the negative and unintended consequences of public policy derived from his or her ideas. As such, the philosopher and mathematician Bertrand Russell (1872–1970) advised the British government against national rearmament in the years before World War I (1914–1918), while the German Empire prepared for war. Yet, the post-war intellectual reputation of Bertrand Russell remained almost immaculate and his opinions respected by the general public because of the halo effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11778837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11778837", "title": "Krause Publications", "text": "Krause Publications\n\nKrause Publications is a publisher of leisure-time and enthusiast magazines and books located in Iola, Wisconsin. The company was started by Chet Krause upon the publication in October 1952 of the first issue of Numismatic News. They are best known for its \"Standard Catalog of World Coins\", a series of numismatic catalogs commonly referred to as \"Krause-Mishler\" catalogues or simply \"Krause\" catalogues, they provide information, pricing, and Krause-Mishler (KM) numbers referring to coin rarity and value. Krause-Mishler releases a yearly catalogue of world coins with values and KM numbers. Krause-Mishler numbers are the most common way of assigning values to coins. In addition, they established the Coin of the Year Award. Krause Publications also publishes paper money catalogs, knife collector price guides and formerly the comics industry magazine \"Comics Buyer's Guide\". In July 2002 Krause was acquired by F+W Media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46273308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46273308", "title": "Legal archaeology", "text": "Legal archaeology\n\nLegal archaeology is an area of legal scholarship \"involving detailed historical reconstruction and analysis of important cases.\" \n\nWhile most legal scholars confine their research to published opinions of court cases, legal archaeologists examine the historical and social context in which a court case was decided. These facts may show what social and cultural forces were at work in a particular case. Professors can use legal archaeology to \"sensitize students as to how inequality, specifically with regard to race, gender and class affects what occurs throughout the cases they study.\" A legal archaeologist might also research biographical material on the judges, attorneys, and parties to a court case. Such information might show whether a judge held particular biases in a case, or if one party had superior legal representation that caused the party to prevail in a case. \n\n"}
{"id": "2490371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2490371", "title": "Low culture", "text": "Low culture\n\n\"Low culture\" is a derogatory term for forms of popular culture that have mass appeal. Its contrast is \"high culture\", which can also be derogatory. It has been said by culture theorists that both high culture and low culture are subcultures.\n\nThe boundaries of low culture and high culture blur, through convergence. Many people are \"omnivores\", making cultural choices from different menus.\n\nIn his book \"Popular Culture and High Culture\", Herbert J. Gans gives a definition of how to identify and create low culture:\nWhen applying that lens to mass media, it often includes shows that do not go too deeply into abstract ideas, or that do not address head-on contemporary social problems.\n\nHerbert Gans states in his book \"Popular Culture and High Culture\" that the different classes of culture are linked correspondingly to socio-economic and educational classes.\nFor any given socio-economic class, there is a culture for that class. Hence the terms high and low culture and the manifestation of those terms as they appeal to their respective constituents.\n\nAll cultural products (especially high culture) have a certain demographic to which they appeal most. Low culture appeals to very simple and basic human needs plus offers a perceived return to innocence, the escape from real world problems, or the experience of living vicariously through viewing someone else’s life on television.\n\nLow culture can be formulaic, employing trope conventions, stock characters and character archetypes in a manner that can be perceived as more simplistic, crude, emotive, unbalanced, or blunt compared to high culture's implementations—which may be perceived as more subtle, balanced, or refined and open for interpretations.\n"}
{"id": "752194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752194", "title": "Matt Helm", "text": "Matt Helm\n\nMatt Helm is a fictional character created by author Donald Hamilton. He is a U.S. government counter-agent—a man whose primary job is to kill or nullify enemy agents—not a spy or secret agent in the ordinary sense of the term as used in spy thrillers.\n\nPublished between 1960 and 1993, the 27 books in the series portrayed Helm, who acquired the code name \"Eric\" during his secret wartime assignments, as jaded, ruthless, pragmatic, and competent. The series was noted for its between-books continuity, which was somewhat rare for the genre. In the later books, Helm's origins as a man of action in World War II disappeared and he became an apparently ageless character, a common fate of long-running fictional heroes.\n\nIn the first book in the series, \"Death of a Citizen,\" which takes place in the summer of 1958, 13 years after the end of the war, Helm is frequently referred to by other characters as being of incipient middle age and apparently soft and out of shape, although no specific age for him is given. In the next story, which apparently takes place in the summer of 1959, a hostile agent from a rival American spy organization taunts Helm as a shopworn 36-year-old and clearly over the hill as a physical specimen. Later in the book, Helm himself says that he is 36 years old. Writer Hayford Peirce examined the issue of Helm's age, and found this figure to be improbably young given the information about Helm's background in \"Death of a Citizen.\" Peirce postulated that Helm was actually several years older than the 36 years mentioned in \"The Wrecking Crew\" and that he was probably born around 1918. By \"The Betrayers\", the tenth book, the age issue vanishes completely.\n\nCritic Anthony Boucher wrote: \"Donald Hamilton has brought to the spy novel the authentic hard realism of Dashiell Hammett; and his stories are as compelling, and probably as close to the sordid truth of espionage, as any now being told.\" Golden Age mystery writer John Dickson Carr began reviewing books for \"Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine\" in 1969. According to Carr's biographer, \"Carr found Donald Hamilton's Matt Helm to be 'my favorite secret agent,'\" although Hamilton's books had little in common with Carr's. \"The explanation may lie in Carr's comment that in espionage novels he preferred Matt Helm's 'cloud-cuckooland' land. Carr never valued realism in fiction.\" \n\nIn 1965, Columbia Pictures acquired the film rights to eight Matt Helm novels. A five-film parody or spoof spy movie series was planned and four were made, debuting with \"The Silencers\" (from Hamilton's novels \"The Silencers\" and \"Death of a Citizen\", adapted by acclaimed \"A Streetcar Named Desire\" screenwriter Oscar Saul). They were made to star Dean Martin, who co-produced with his Meadway-Claude Production company and received a partnership in the films. The series was produced by Irving Allen, who had once been the partner of James Bond film producer Albert R. \"Cubby\" Broccoli—the same man who had told Ian Fleming that his 007 novels were not \"good enough for television,\" a point of contention between the two producers from 1958-1960 when they dissolved Warwick Films and went their separate ways.\n\nThe films used the name Matt Helm, his cover identity, plus book titles and some very loose plot elements, but otherwise the series bore no resemblance at all to the character, atmosphere, or themes of Hamilton's original books, nor to the hard-edged action of Bond. One reason for this is that the filmmakers believed the only way to compete with the Bond films was to parody them. (See also \"Casino Royale.\") Likewise, a 1970s TV series \"Matt Helm,\" which cast Tony Franciosa as Helm, an ex-spy turned private detective, also departed from the books and was unsuccessful.\n\nMartin played the part with his own persona of a fun-loving, easygoing, wisecracking playboy with plenty of references to singing and alcohol consumption. Although unnamed in the novels, Helm's department was called Intelligence and Counter-Espionage (ICE) in the films. Like the Bond films, the Helm movies feature a number of sexy women in each, sometimes referred to as \"The Slaygirls\".\n\nFor instance, in 1966's \"The Silencers\", Stella Stevens played a redheaded bombshell who proves helpless while trying to help Helm, and a similar part was played by actress Sharon Tate in \"The Wrecking Crew.\" Martin co-starred in the films with popular '60s actresses such as Ann-Margret, Elke Sommer, Janice Rule, and Tina Louise.\n\nSupposedly, the idea of a tongue-in-cheek take on Helm came from the first film's director, Phil Karlson. Intending to film a seriously intended screenplay with that approach had not worked for Karlson a few years previously with the 1961 Richard Widmark film \"The Secret Ways\", as star-producer Widmark, who was married to the film's screenwriter, fired Karlson from the film and took over the direction himself without credit. Bond films of the 1970s, by contrast, adopted the style and setpieces of Helm films while also mostly ignoring the plot elements of Fleming's original books.\n\nThe Dean Martin version of Helm, created by screenwriter Saul, served as a significant inspiration for Mike Myers's comic character Austin Powers, and many references can be seen in the \"Austin Powers\" films. Most significantly, both characters have cover jobs as fashion photographers.\n\nIn 2002, it was reported that DreamWorks SKG had optioned the entire Helm book series. In 2005, \"Variety\" reported that DreamWorks had signed Michael Brandt and Derek Haas to write a screenplay for a high six-figure deal. According to the article, the film was to be a contemporary adaptation of the character, but no casting or release information was announced.\n\nParamount retained the film rights to the Matt Helm series after its 2008 split from DreamWorks. In 2009, it was reported that Alex Kurtzman and Roberto Orci would produce a more serious version of the Helm franchise, with \"Variety\" saying that the tone of Paul Attanasio's script was closer to that of the film \"The Bourne Identity\" and that Steven Spielberg was considering directing or producing. In March 2018, Deadline Hollywood reported that Tom Shepard had been hired by Paramount to rewrite the script, with Bradley Cooper attached to play the titular character. Spielberg reportedly would remain involved in some unspecified capacity. \n\n\nAll of Hamilton's Matt Helm novels were first published in the United States by Fawcett Publications under their Gold Medal imprint.\n\n\nA fifth film was planned, based upon the novel \"The Ravagers\", but Martin declined the opportunity to play the role once more, even though the title of the film was announced at the end of \"Wrecking Crew\".\nA 4-DVD box set containing the four films was released in North America in December 2005.\n\nIn 2005, \"Variety\" reported that a contemporary adaptation of the Matt Helm novels was in the planning stage, with DreamWorks holding the film rights to all of Donald Hamilton's books. In 2009, rumors of the Helm project continued, with Steven Spielberg reportedly signed to produce a film and possibly direct, with Alex Kurtzman and Roberto Orci also producing. The project never came to fruition.\n\nA television series loosely based upon Hamilton's character was launched by the ABC Network in 1975. Titled simply \"Matt Helm,\" the series starred Anthony Franciosa as a retired spy from \"The Machine\" who becomes a private detective. After being launched by a pilot TV movie, it ran for only 13 episodes. It had no connection to the movies.\n\nIn Japan, Jin Kimura (), also known as () drew \"Matt Helm Series\" () based on the novel in the magazine \"Boy's Life\" (), November 1968 – March 1969.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38847202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38847202", "title": "Migrant sex work", "text": "Migrant sex work\n\nMigrant sex work is the work done by migrant workers in prostitution. Migrant sex work is significant because of its role as a dominant demographic of commercial sex workers internationally. Migrant sex work shares several similarities across various contexts, such as their migration from rural to urban areas or between developing to industrialized nations and the economic push and pull factors that help determine their migrant status. Migrant sex workers have also been at the center of complex discussions over the legality of sex work, the differentiation or conflation of sex work from sex trafficking, and responses from national governments and non-governmental organizations over the regulation of sex work and the provision of services for victims of sex trafficking.\n\nThe illegal nature of migrant sex work makes it difficult to obtain reliable and conclusive estimates of migrant sex workers. However, social scientists have discovered significant trends regarding the identity of migrant sex workers. While migrants who work in agriculture or construction are largely male, migrants who engage in commercial sex work are largely female with ages ranging from the early teens to middle age. Migrant sex workers make up significant proportions of the sex worker population in many countries, with estimates ranging from 37% in the UK to 90% in Spain.\n\nMigrant sex workers are diverse in terms of nationality of origin. In certain national contexts, such as in the United Arab Emirates, sex workers come from a diverse range of nations of origin, such as Russia, Nigeria, and Thailand. About 60% of sex workers in large Dutch cities, for instance, are women of color from developing nations. As a result, what distinguishes migrant sex workers from local sex workers are primarily their low socioeconomic status, primarily illegal immigration status, and poor language skills. This results in their frequent marginalization in the unregulated and dangerous sectors of the sex industry.\n\nLow economic status and harsh living conditions in migrant sex workers' home country often serve as push factors for migration to more economically advantaged nations. Vast migration between third and first world countries in response to diminishing economic prospects at home has been prevalent since economic globalization widened the income gap between developed and developing nations. As a result, the number of international migrants doubled between 1960 and 2005. This international migration has increasingly become feminized, with females making up 50% of all international migrants.\n\nMigrants enter sex work for a variety of reasons. Female migrants largely migrate for jobs in the care sector, such as domestic work, childcare, and sex work, as opposed to males who engage in more physically demanding labor, such as construction and agriculture. Some migrants may have originally intended to work in commercial sex while others found themselves turning to commercial sex after alternate labor means failed or proved to be less lucrative. Others may engage in sex work as a result of situations involving the need to pay off debts incurred during migration or fees to a wide variety of middlemen who may help secure papers, travel passage, and places of work.\n\nFor women who engage in rural to urban migration in developing nations with growing free trade zones and importation of foreign financial capital and tourism, sex work is often more lucrative than alternative forms of labor, such as working in manufacturing or in factories subcontracting to foreign corporations. Women can choose to engage in commercial sex over these forms of labor, or use sex work to supplement other labor activities, such as domestic work.\n\nSeveral scholars have noted the growing number of academic studies, news media coverage, and government and NGO reports on migrant sex workers, victims of sex trafficking, and the overlap between these two groups. As the perception of an international sex trafficking pandemic grows, there have been a large number of attempts to count the number of individuals who engage in some sort of migration and sex work, either voluntarily or coerced. However, scholars and activists have often criticized the methodologies of these studies and the motivations behind them.\n\nBecause prostitution can be an extremely political topic that represents differing political interests, the method of data collection and the use of collected data can vary in reliability. While more pro-sex work academics, organizations, and activists make an explicit demarcation between sex workers and victims of sex trafficking, many other groups consider prostitution to inherently lack a voluntary component. Many anti-sex work activists consider any form of migration for the purpose of commercial sex to be a form of human trafficking. As a result, depending on the definition of human trafficking by the organization or data collector, the number of either migrant sex workers or victims of sex trafficking can dramatically change depending on whether or not these two categories of individuals are conflated. Scholars, service providers, and practitioners who attempt to remain apolitical and outside the feminist views on sex trafficking and sex work regarding prostitution still often remark how the legal definitions of human trafficking are still too vague for them to efficiently and neutrally define and count victims. As a result, who is considered to be a migrant sex worker or victim of sex trafficking can widely vary.\n\nThe illegal nature of either the migration, sex work, or both components of migrant sex work make it difficult to obtain reliable and conclusive estimates of migrant sex workers. Scholars Guri Tyldum and Anette Brunovski call sex workers \"hidden populations\" which they define as \"A group of individuals for whom the size and boundaries are unknown,and for whom no sampling frame exists.\" The reasons why a sampling frame does not exist lies in the illegal and stigmatized nature of sex work. In order to protect their identity from law enforcement and family members, sex workers are often unwilling to participate in studies and surveys that may compromise their privacy and identity.\n\nMigrant sex work is also incredibly diverse due to the large number of countries and migration contexts that are involved. There is no statistically generalizable portrait of migrant sex workers' day-to-day lives, living and working conditions, and relationships with other sex workers, clients, or third party intermediaries. Studies are unlikely to capture the sheer diversity in migrant sex worker experiences, especially when many of them come from selective samples, such as from a sex worker service provider or even shelter for human trafficking victims., As a result, many scholars caution against accepting any survey or study of sex workers as generalizable.\n\nBecause of their illegal and vulnerable economic status, some migrant sex workers may find themselves in situations where coercion and forced sex work may be present. Under international legal definitions of human trafficking, forced and coercive forms of sex work are considered to be instances of involuntary sex trafficking. However, many scholars caution against categorizing sex workers as either completely voluntary or completely involuntary. They often argue that sex work, like other forms of labor, can span a spectrum between the two extremes, with most circumstances falling in the middle through various labor rights violations. Nevertheless, the vulnerability of migrant sex workers can make them susceptible to exploitative or coercive labor practices that can resemble or be human trafficking.\n\nWhether or not human trafficking and migrant sex work should be considered the same concept has been a contentious debate among feminist activists, government officials, scholars, and religious organizations for the past 15 years. This debate currently dominates much of the public discussion surrounding human trafficking and sex work. On one side of the debate are anti-prostitution activists who conflate migrant sex work and human trafficking because they do not believe in voluntary prostitution or because they view any migration for the purpose of sex work as human trafficking. This perspective has largely dominated mainstream governmental and NGO perspectives toward human trafficking across international contexts. On the other side of the debate are pro-sex work academics and activists who argue for the separation of voluntary migrant sex work from involuntary human trafficking and a greater focus on labor and migration rights instead of trafficking. This group works for the recognition of the right of prostitutes to pursue sex work as a legitimate form of work, more flexible and open borders for migrants, and a greater focus on the spectrum of coercive labor conditions.\n\nSex work and sex trafficking conflation is also a heavily debated legal topic. Several scholars argue that existing legal provisions aimed at combating human trafficking, such as the U.S. Trafficking Victims Protection Act and the 2000 United Nations Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children, do not adequately account for the variety of sex worker conditions and contexts, voluntary or involuntary. For instance, Filipina hostesses who migrate to Japan to work as entertainers must give up their legal documents to their recruiters during the migration process. While the law considers the process of giving up a passport to a third party intermediary as a condition of human trafficking, several scholars, activists, and the sex workers themselves do not regard this to be human trafficking, particularly when individuals consent to this component of the migration process.\n\nIssues surrounding the definition of human trafficking in relation to sex work and migration situations have contributed to a highly contentious debate and has played a prominent role in structuring how governments have responded to migrant sex workers in terms of viewing them as unwilling victims of a crime or as criminals themselves.\n\nMany migrant sex workers migrate illegally or become illegal migrants after leaving previously legal statuses and jobs for sex work. Illegal migrant status can heavily restrict sex worker access to legal alternatives to sex work, legal sex work venues, and government-provided social services. The consequences are that migrant sex workers are unable to turn to law enforcement during sexual assaults and rapes or access services available to sex workers with appropriate legal status and citizenship. The possibility of facing deportation and anti-immigration sentiments are critical ways in which migrant sex workers are marginalized. Migrant workers who initially migrate under legal means can become illegal migrants in violation of their visas if they decide to enter sex work.\n\nMigrant sex workers who have legal status largely do not exist for two reasons. First, governments with legal sex industries typically do not allow foreign nationals to participate legally. New Zealand and Australia are two examples that prohibit foreign individuals with various visa statuses from participating in sex work, making individuals who choose to do so anyway illegal under immigration law. Second, governments that do not have legal sex industries typically allow the entrance of foreign nationals who are currently working as prostitutes or have a history of prostitution.\n\nThe legal status of sex work varies in various different national contexts around the world. Scholar Janie Chuang identifies the following four regulatory models for prostitution:\n\n\nProponents of legalizing prostitution often argue that legalization will provide regulation and benefits to an industry that suffers from negative externalities as a direct result of its illegal status, such as the inability of sex workers to seek legal action towards violent customers or exploitative labor conditions. Proponents for partial criminalization argue that making the act of buying sex, as opposed to selling sex, illegal will eliminate unequal penalties that are traditionally felt by the sex worker, especially when the sex worker is not voluntarily participating in commercial sex.\n\nHowever, legalization of sex work does not mean all sex workers benefit. Even in situations where sex work is decriminalized and legalized, such as in Denmark, the migrant sex worker population is often negatively affected. In the Netherlands, when sex work is legalized, the legal benefits are largely accrued only by sex workers who have legal status or Dutch citizenship. As a result, the illegal migrant sex worker population that comprises 50%-60% of the overall sex worker population does not have access to licensed and regulated establishments and find themselves pushed into illegal and potentially dangerous sectors of sex work.\n\nNational governments have responded to migrant sex work similarly to the way they have responded to mass migration. Anti-immigration sentiments have flared in many receiving countries of mass migration, such as the United States. and various European countries, such as France. Along with these negative sentiments are negative attitudes directed at migrants who engage in sex work, with concerns over sex work's relationship with transnational organized crime, sexually transmitted diseases, and lower moral standards. States have responded by tightening their borders and deporting migrant sex workers.\n\nState response may differ based on anti-human trafficking attitudes that often prevail. Some states are sympathetic to migrant sex workers who are considered to be victims of human trafficking and not voluntary sex workers. Some governments, such as that of the United States, provide legal and health services to individuals who engage in commercial sex if these individuals are proven and officially certified by law enforcement to be victims of human trafficking.\n\nResponse from non-governmental organizations have largely been centered on anti-trafficking activism and service provision that may also include migrant sex workers. Much of NGO response to migrant sex work has been on increasing awareness of human trafficking problems. Anti-trafficking NGOs have played a role in providing health services and contraceptives. Sex worker outreach organizations also exist in the areas of public and global health. NGOs also largely target migrant sex workers for their high risk of attracting and passing on sexually transmitted diseases. They offer services such as providing contraception in the form of condoms, engaging sex workers in educational classes concerning sexual and other forms of physical health, and providing HIV and other STD testing.\n\nIn some contexts, such as the United States, NGOs have played a role in facilitating illegal migrant access to legal status and eventually permanent residency or citizenship. However, these legal benefits are often only available for individuals who can prove their involvement in commercial sex work was involuntary and a form of human trafficking victimhood. On the other hand, some NGO-run campaigns encourage migrant sex workers to return to their nations of origin.\n\nThe existence of anti-human trafficking NGOs has also been spurred by the United States Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons' Trafficking In Persons Report. A prominent component of the TIP Report ranking of countries's response to human trafficking is their involvement and encouragement of civil society and non-governmental efforts at combating human trafficking.\n\nThere have also been organizations that explicitly support the existence and rights of migrant sex workers, many of which are sex worker activist groups themselves. These groups primarily argue for the recognition of sex work as a legitimate form of work or for the rights and legal status of migrant workers to exist. Many of these NGOs argue for more open border and security policies that would not harm migrant sex workers and the risks that accompany illegal status. Such groups include the New Sex Worker Project, International Union of Sex Workers, and The International Committee on the Rights of Sex Workers in Europe.\n\nThe United States Department of State exerts significant influence on the migration and human trafficking policies of foreign government through the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons. The Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons releases an annual Trafficking In Persons Report that rates all countries based on their response and action regarding human trafficking within and between their borders. Their ratings are based on whether or not a government is deemed compliant with U.S. minimum standards for response to human trafficking, which are articulated in the Trafficking Victims Protection Act. According to the U.S. Department of State, countries are rated on the following standards\n\n\nCentral to the U.S. Department of State understanding and discussion of human trafficking involves the international flow of migration. According to the Department of State, \"Although not all trafficking involves migration, and not all migration is human trafficking, the vulnerabilities of migrants make them a tempting target for traffickers.\" Countries' responses towards migrant workers' conditions of vulnerability therefore play a pivotal role in their Trafficking in Persons Report ranking.\n\nNational governments respond to Tier 3 and Tier 2 Watchlist rankings and the potential consequence of sanctions in a variety of ways. These responses also differ in their effects on migrant sex workers. Many countries respond by placing more restrictive immigration standards or greater migration regulations, all for the purpose of seemingly improving state response to human trafficking risks that may accompany open borders. However, the effects of these new regulations have been mixed when it comes to the actual well-being of migrant sex workers. For example, South Korea, after their Tier 3 ranking in the 2001 TIP, launched an in-depth national survey to examine the conditions of their foreign sex workers. At the head of this new effort, however, was a government minister who had previously sough to abolish prostitution. The result was a national law that outlawed the role of third-party migration intermediaries who played an important role in facilitating the migration process of women into South Korea.\n\nIn 2003, Congress under the Bush Administration announced the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), a commitment of $15 billion over five years (2003–2008) from United States to internationally fight the HIV/AIDS. In an effort to combat human trafficking and the supposed role of sex trafficking in spreading HIV/AIDS, the legislation explicitly opposes any efforts that do not conflate prostitution and sex trafficking:\n\n\nWithin PEPFAR lies the controversial anti-prostitution pledge, a pledge NGOs and governments, with few exceptions, must sign declaring their opposition to prostitution or service provision to prostitutes. This pledge has been heavily criticized by NGOs working to fight HIV/AIDS, sex worker rights activists and organizations, and even national governments who feel a declaration of opposition towards prostitution would be counterproductive to eliminating HIV/AIDS among a vulnerable population. This pledge and its requirement of opposition to prostitution has affected the funding of many organizations working explicitly with migrant sex workers by eliminating many of their social services and increasing their risk of abuse and limited mobility.\n\nCountries within the European Union have varied legal statuses for prostitution and sex work. Two European nations have served as representative examples of the two popularly debated legal responses to prostitution: Sweden's model of criminalizing the purchase of sex, but not the act of selling it; and the Netherlands' model of legalizing and regulating sex work. Many pro-sex work advocates argue that the Dutch model of legalization and regulation is the most beneficial for the labor standards and working conditions of sex workers, while many anti-sex work and anti-sex trafficking activists argue that the Swedish Model helps eliminate unfair criminalization of prostitutes instead of the janes, johns and pimps who exploit them. Criminalizing clients and pimps additionally avoids prosecuting prostitutes who are in reality victims of human trafficking.\n\nHowever, many scholars argue that neither of these models have had dramatically different results in the status of sex workers or trafficking victims. Rather, both models have only deepened the dangers of sex work for vulnerable groups that engage in sex work, primarily socioeconomically disadvantaged migrant workers. Criminalization of buyers of sex work has created more dangerous situations for individuals who continue to engage in commercial sex. Often, they can no longer conduct transactions in public spaces because their clients fear arrest and legal action. As a result, sex work is less susceptible to outreach, and migrants who fear legal repercussions themselves for their legal statuses are unwilling to be involved in situations that may involve law enforcement or service provision.\n\nUnder the Dutch Model, these legal benefits and reduction of risk are not available to migrant sex workers who are largely illegal. Regulated and legalized sex work requires the registration of brothels, mandated health testing for sex workers, and various other regulations for indoor working spaces and the procurement of clients. As a result, illegal migrant workers who fear deportment over their legal status cannot participate in the formal paperwork associated with legal sex work. They continue to become marginalized from more privileged sex workers.\n\nThe United Arab Emirates's geographic location makes it an important stepping stone for migrants from the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe, and Southeast Asia who wish to eventually work in Europe or the United States. The UAE's economic boom and aggressive development in the early to mid 2000s made it not only attractive to foreign migrants, but also dependent on them. In Dubai, migrants make up almost 90% of the population. While this migrant population is very diverse in terms of nation of origin, the population is divided into mainly two key demographics: poor, vulnerable laborers who come to Dubai through restrictive labor contacts; and rich, Western businessmen and financiers. Both populations contribute to Dubai and the greater UAE in very different yet very important ways. While the more privileged Western migrants contribute financial capital to the development of the city, the poor migrants contribute much of the physical labor necessary to build the city's physical structures.\n\nAlong with demand for migrant laborers was also the demand for migrant sex workers. Because of the diversity in the demographics of individuals who live and work in Dubai, a highly diverse and stratified commercial sex industry also exists to cater to these diversities in background, income, and class. For example, the spectrum of sex worker diversity ranges from migrants from Nigeria, Iran, Philippines, and Russia, with their skin tone corresponding to the price they command and the male clientele they see: the lighter the sex worker's skin color, the more Western the clientele and the higher the price. As a result, the UAE's migrant sex worker population is highly diverse and burgeoning. However, because the UAE is a Muslim country without legal prostitution, these sex workers remain largely underground, illegal, and in constant fear of law enforcement intervention and the possibility of deportation.\n\nBecause of the UAE's large migrant worker population, restrictive labor contracts, and lack of anti-trafficking partnerships with NGOs, the United States Department of State Trafficking In Persons Report gave UAE a series of Tier 3 and Tier 2 Watchlist rankings. As a result, the UAE allowed more local and international NGO presence to develop, including those working to end human trafficking and sex trafficking.\n"}
{"id": "6916227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6916227", "title": "Miniature pioneering", "text": "Miniature pioneering\n\nMiniature Pioneering or Model Pioneering is an art form featuring the miniaturized version of pioneering construction. This technique was originally used by Boy Scouts to create a model for campsite planning. Models are a convenient way to plan a construction project, requiring the same techniques as a full-scale model, and allowing for accurate equipment lists to be developed, as well as for difficulties in sequencing construction to be identified. However, scout troops in Malaysia are innovating it into a new form of art through competitions. While real pioneering is a combination of wooden spars and ropes, these materials are replaced by wooden sticks and white thread in Miniature Pioneering. \n\nAlthough design and complexity plays a major part in judging the value of a model, lashing quality plays a major role whereby it is evaluated based on the three criteria of tightness, tidiness, and cleanliness. Similar to all handmade models, the activity of making a miniature pioneering model is good training for patience and perfection.\n\n"}
{"id": "45241533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45241533", "title": "Misogyny in horror films", "text": "Misogyny in horror films\n\nMisogyny can occur in horror films when there is a degrading representation of women. This is found particularly in slasher films, where there is often gendered specific violence towards women. Female characters experience violence and brutality at the hands of male antagonists far more often than male characters in these films. Female characters are likely to experience sexual violence, particularly in the rape-and-revenge subgenre. \nFemale and male characters who have been sexually involved die in the slasher genre. Research has been unable to show if female characters are killed more often in an explicitly sexual way than male characters. Slasher films are primarily sexually violent films consisting of \"scenes of explicit violence primarily directed toward women, often occurring during or juxtaposed to mildly erotic scenes\".\n\nTeen slasher films feature teen protagonists who portray the stereotypical American family. Films such as \"The Texas Chain Saw Massacre\" (1974) and \"Carrie\" (1976), show the relationship between society and horror films. Pat Gill states that, \"teen slasher films both resolutely mock and yearn for the middle-class American dream, the promised comfort and contentment of a loving, supportive bourgeois family.\" These films portray parents who are incapable of helping their children when the latter are in dire need of help. Psychologists have concluded that an \"ethical shift in the meaning and value of family responsibility\" has occurred, which is characterized by a change from an obligation to others towards to a focus on oneself. According to some research, divorce is the main reason for this shift, and it has been suggested that horror films tend to portray what is going on in society. According to Gill, this change in meaning and values explains why teenagers in horror films are left to fend for themselves and the boundaries of their homes have become \"entirely permeable to evil\".\n\nSome critics suggest that the torture represented in the torture horror genre reflects contemporary U.S. society. The methods of torture in these films are adapted from the discussion of terrorism. During the \"War on Terror\", the film industry had trouble distinguishing between the characters of \"torturer, victim, villain, and hero.\" Writers and directors of horror films had difficulty allowing their torturers and villains to survive after doing such heinous acts. Mashia Wester sees films such as \"The Descent\", \"Saw\", and \"High Tension\" as depicting \"average Americans both as tortured victim and torturing hero.\" The heroes within these torture films do not actively torture but contribute to their own and others' suffering.\n\nEli Roth, the creator of the \"Hostel\" films, taps into an \"undercurrent of anxiety about the place of gendered bodies in relation to torture as well as the connection between gender equality, torture, global capitalist venture, and the passive American consumer.\" Maisha Wester's states in her article, \"Torture Porn And Uneasy Feminisms: Re-Thinking (Wo)Men in Eli Roth's Hostel Films\", that the popularity of the \"Hostel\" films makes the questioning of gendered dominance \"both elusive and inescapable in the face of capitalism since, within such a system, we are all commodifiable and consuming bodies.\"\n\nThe misogynistic treatment of women in horror films can be associated with the fear of the abject. Julia Kristeva explains the abject to be \"something rejected from which one does not part, from which one does not protect oneself as from an object. Imaginary uncanniness and real threat, it beckons to us and ends up engulfing us.\" Kristeva is stating that we are horrified by the abject because \"it is something that disgusts us, yet comes from us or from which we come.\" We are brought up being taught what we should see with disgust; therefore we must conceal it in shame. Horror films use the female body as a form of an abject. The bodily fluid, blood, gets related to the period and birthing only the female body can perform. This then constitutes motherhood as something society is taught to be disgusted with feeding into this patriarchal world.\n\nIn the article, \"Monster Pains: Masochism, Menstruation, and Identification in the Horror Film\" by Aviva Briefel, she states that there are two identifications of gendered modes for monstrous suffering: masochism and menstruation. Masochism is central to the identification of male monsters \"who initiate their sadistic rampages with acts of self-mutilation.\" However, if we look at the female monster we will see that she does not commit acts of self-mutilation out of pleasure but instead \"commit acts of violence out of revenge for earlier abuse by parents, partners, rapists, and other offenders.\" Female monsters will engage in masochistic acts when she is coerced or is trying to terminate her monstrosity. Briefel shows examples of these certain masochistic acts by female monsters with films like \"Carrie\" (1976), \"The Exorcist\" (1973), \"Stigmata\" (1999), \"The Hunger\" (1983), and \"Alien 3\" (1992).\n\nThe slasher film was the first genre that allowed gender norms to take a different path. The role of the final girl confused audiences with the portrayal of a female being a violent hero. However, there was finally a possibility that the heroine who defeats the monster is a female and is categorized as the final girl. The final girl is the \"first character to sense something amiss and the only one to deduce from the accumulating evidence the pattern and extent of threat; the only one, in other words, whose perspective approaches our own privileged understanding of the situation.\" The only way the final girl is able to kill or escape the monster is by taking on male characteristics. However, Carol J. Clover cautions audiences against seeing \"final girls\" as products of feminism. Final girls are still seen like the other women who have been killed after taking part in sexual activities by being a part of \"the chase\". Clover concludes that the final girl is \"an agreed upon fiction [for] male-viewers' use of her as a vehicle for his own sadomasochistic fantasies.\"\n\nThe final girl is one of the most commonly seen tropes in horror films. The final girl is always female, usually a virgin and according to Carol J. Clover, who first identified this trope in 1992, she is typically seen as \"the embodiment of what a woman should be.\" She does not smoke, drink or engage in other illicit behavior though most, if not all, other characters in the film do. She is the lone survivor of the slasher villain, and often bests him by taking on masculine characteristics and engaging in her own form of brutality to kill or escape the antagonist in the end. Clover notes that the final girl is almost always brunette, modestly dressed and seemingly naive in comparison to her friends and other film characters.\n\nCarol Clover states that the monster in horror films possesses emasculated rage that portrays the male idea of the monstrous female identity. Wester states that the hero and the monster have blurred lines making their characteristics very similar. Both the hero and the monster are dependent on the female body whilst taking part of the patriarchal world and degrading women. The monsters in horror films try to hide their sexual frustration by masking their identity and human self. The mask allows the monster to kill and release the tension from his sexual repression.\n\nShelley Stamp Lindsey states \"\"Carrie\" is not about liberation from sexual repression, but about the failure of repression to contain the monstrous feminine\". Audiences are not supposed to identify with Carrie White whilst she becomes the monster, instead they are supposed to be scared of her ability and destructive potential. \"Carrie\" is purposely portrayed in this manner because she demonstrates what happens when women gain power and are no longer repressed. \"Carrie\" ultimately tells its audience that they must live as a patriarchal world and if they do not then this is what will come of it.\n\nAviva Briefel states that menstruation is the start of monstrosity. Once a girl has reached puberty she is seen to be monstrous. Horror films feed into the female monsters identity through her menstruation. This then states that having your period makes you weaker. The overall objective in Briefel's article, \"Monster Pains: Masochism, Menstruation, and Identification in the Horror Film\", is that the female monster is unable to control her emotions when pain occurs, whereas male monsters are unable to feel pain.\n\nQuentin Tarantino's \"The Hateful Eight\" reiterates these stereotypes in present-day filmmaking, styling the major female character, Daisy Domergue (Jennifer Jason Leigh), as a blood-soaked twin of Carrie, or as the glutinous slimy monster of \"The Thing\". Daisy is imaged arbitrarily as a monstrous force, rather than being human. There has been much debate about the conservative nature of this symbolism and the openly negative attitude to women in \"The Hateful Eight\". Harvey Weinstein and others have vigorously defended the filmmaker from these charges, given that the film has received mixed reception and has not matched the commercial success of Tarantino's previous titles, whilst discussion about the treatment of Daisy has opened up criticism of the film that was unforeseen by both producers and director. Though her portrayal as \"Female Monster\" is no doubt deserved due to her committing multiple acts of murder both during and before the film's story, turning her eventual death at the hands of Warren and Mannix - two men - into well-deserved punishment.\n\nIn every horror film the repressive patriarchal form of a monster is either \"symbolically castrated, pathetically lacking...or he is overly endowed and potent\". The real sexual interest that occurs in horror films comes from the monster. \"The monster's power is one of sexual difference from the normal male. In this difference he is remarkably like the woman in the eyes of the traumatized male: a biological freak with impossible and threatening appetites that suggest a frightening potency precisely where the normal male would perceive a lack.\"\n\nMen only stay on the screen long enough to show their incompetence, unless they are seen to be a true form of patriarchy. The repressive patriarch is often dressed as a female and because he does not exemplify patriarchy at its finest, the final girl is his \"homoerotic stand-in\".\n\nThe \"masochistic monster\" revels in acts of self-mutilation before the audience sees the harming of others being done. Briefel looks at films like \"Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\" (1931), \"The Fly\" (1986), \"Hellraiser\" series, \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" (1984), and \"\" (1991). All these horror films show examples of masochistic monsters that take pleasure in the pain they inflict on themselves; it is something they must endure to be monstrous.\n\nThe horror film emphasizes the idea of female sexuality being something that needs to be punished or come with negative consequences. It shows that once a woman acts in a sexual way she will be killed. The American fantasy of women continuously being sexualized is completely taken away in horror films. Once a woman is related to sex, her sexuality is punished. Klaus Reiser argues, \"It is not so much the girls' sexuality per se...but the fact that they have sex with other boys\". Sex is considered to be a masculine trait because it is a form of power over someone, and if a woman tries to take control of this power, she will instantly be punished. Her sexual freedom is not within gender-norms, and the patriarchal society does not accept it. Only \"male domination is natural and follows inevitable from evolutionary...or social pressures\".\n\nThe Chase often consists of a sexualized and degraded woman running for her life as an assailant hunts her down and kills her, unless she is termed the \"final girl\". Often, The Chase will feature the woman in various states of undress and lecherous camerawork that focuses on her body before she is killed in an attempt to mix sex and violence. Female victims in slasher films are shown to be in a state of fear five times as long as males, specifically occurring during \"the chase\".\n\nA phallic weapon, such as a sword or gun, takes on masculine characteristics, even in the hands of a monster, or a woman.\n\nAttaching even further onto the fear of women's bodies, there are multiple cases of female bodies become mere vessel for the monster. A female character is violated and is mystically inseminated, and then endures an excoriating pregnancy or an almost non-existent one, passing without any repercussion. The child is then either a monster that must be killed, or is taken away from the character presently. This trope reduces a women down to the biological, and degrades the emotional and physically complex aspects of bearing and giving birth to a child. The women often have no say in what happens with the baby or even with their own bodies, becoming little more than an object. In horror films such as \"Rosemary's Baby\" (1968), Rosemary spends the whole film being told what to feel about her pregnancy by her husband and others in the apartment complex. She never gets a say in the subject of her baby, even after it is revealed to be the spawn of Satan. She remains the vessel for others to take advantage of throughout the film.\n\nThe audience first identifies with the monster until there is a shift in point-of-view camera narration, and allows identification with the final girl once the monster is after her. The audience relates only with masculinity and disdains femininity. Horror films resemble a mirrored object. They gaze back at the audiences' who are unsuccessful in hiding their own sexual desires.\n\nAviva Briefel believes that pain is central to the audiences understanding of horror films. It is \"the monster's pain that determines audience positioning in the horror film.\" \"By gendering the monster's pain, the horror genre prevents the audience from losing control of its own.\"\n\nScholars such as Mulvey, Clover, and Creed have argued that we live in patriarchal society, where men dictate the rules and women have to abide by them. Clover looks at the notion that men might \"elect to betray their sex and identify with screen females.\" In slasher films, male characters are often killed quickly and easily leaving the audience to resonate with the strong female character left to kill the monster. Clover seeks to suggest that masochistic impulses is seen within the male spectator who finds a \"vicarious stake in\" the \"fear and pain\" the final girl endures by the monster's torturous actions.\n\nThe \"male gaze,\" a term coined by Laura Mulvey in \"Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema\", describes the depiction of female characters in a sexualized, de-humanizing manner. Mulvey states that, because the media depict women as they are observed through the male gaze, women tend to take on this male perspective. According to this theory, women largely appear on screen for men's erotic pleasure.\n\nLinda Williams suggests it is supposedly honorable for males to gaze upon the terror shown on a movie screen while females hide, avoiding these screen images. She also suggests women have the right to feel as if they do not belong since they are shown as powerless \"in the face of rape, mutilation and murder\". As Mulvey argues, the female character \"exists only to be looked at.\" When female audiences gaze upon the screen and when the women on the screen are involved in the gaze, they see \"a distorted reflection of\" their own image. \"The monster is thus a particularly insidious form of the many mirrors patriarchal structure of seeing hold up to the woman.\" Linda William believes that the woman's gaze is \"so threatening to male power, it is violently punished.\"\n\nMary Ann Doane suggests that a woman can only actively participate in the gaze when it is \"simultaneous with her own victimization.\" The woman's gaze is turned into \"masochistic fantasy.\" As soon as the woman feels as if she has power and tries to act on it, she is punished. In \"When The Woman Looks\", Linda Williams analyzes the terrified gaze a woman encounters when she looks at \"the horrible body of the monster.\" In that very moment, as the monster and the woman gaze upon one another, there is recognition of \"similar status within patriarchal structures of seeing.\" What the woman gazes at in horror is always first seen by the audience and then, seconds later, by the woman on the screen. This sequence \"ensures the voyeur's pleasure of looking\" and punishes the woman by \"the horror that her look reveals\". The monster and the woman's gazes are similar. There is not \"much difference between an object of desire and an object of horror as far as the male look is concerned.\" Williams is stating that it isn't an expression of sexual desire that is formed between the monster and the girl but instead \"a flash of sympathetic identification.\"\n\nWhile misogyny abounds in horror films, so too does a sexism rooted in the colonial traditions of North America. Women in general have poor representation in the American film industry, but its women from minorities who suffer the most, being both nearly non-existent and appropriated for the sake of furthering the plot, especially in the case of horror cinema. This deeper rooted misogyny exposes further problems with the horror genre and its catering to a white audience. It also exemplifies issues of racism within film making and how, according to Harry M. Benshoff, \"the vast majority of those films use race as a marker of monstrosity in ways generically consistent with the larger social body's assumptions about white superiority\".\n\nThe horror genre seems to be the genre within cinema that has the most space to comment on issues of race and gender due to its extremist nature and access to allegorical imagery. Ariel Smith states that \"by forcing the subconscious fears of audiences to the surface, horror cinema evokes reactions, psychologically and physically: this is the genre's power.\" The genre holds a great amount of potential to not only explore violence against women and minorities, but also inform the public and show the extents of that violence in a powerful way.\" However, instead of bringing these issues into a public appeal, it only seems to be making the issues worse with neglect to these issues and highly racialized/gendered points of storytelling. By constantly reusing and creating trope images/plot devices like the \"Indian burial ground\" and \"Mythical Negro\" these films trap an entire minority in a set role in cinema while also rendering the reality of their cultures invisible.\n\n"}
{"id": "15982617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15982617", "title": "National Library of the Kyrgyz Republic", "text": "National Library of the Kyrgyz Republic\n\nThe National Library of the Kyrgyz Republic is the legal deposit and copyright agency for Kyrgyzstan. It was founded in 1934. It has a collection of 6 million documents in 89 languages from around the world. Since 2005 the head of the Kyrgyz National Library is Dr. Jyldyz Bakashova.\n\n"}
{"id": "33071622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33071622", "title": "Nature and Culture", "text": "Nature and Culture\n\nNature and Culture is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Berghahn Books that covers the historical and contemporary relationships that societies have with nature. The editors-in-chief are Sing C. Chew and Matthias Gross. The publication themes include cultural reactions and conceptions of nature, ecological restoration, ecological time, as well as political and socio-technical arrangements of landscapes. Some new directions of the journal include environmental technologies and renewable energy cultures.\n\n\"Nature and Culture\" is indexed and abstracted in:\n"}
{"id": "1771987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1771987", "title": "News satire", "text": "News satire\n\nNews satire is a type of parody presented in a format typical of mainstream journalism, and called a satire because of its content. News satire has been around almost as long as journalism itself, but it is particularly popular on the web, with websites like The Onion, where it is relatively easy to mimic a legitimate news source. News satire relies heavily on irony and deadpan humor.\n\nTwo slightly different types of news satire exist. One form uses satirical commentary and sketch comedy to comment on real-world news events, while the other presents wholly fictionalized news stories.\n\nAuthor Samuel Clemens (Mark Twain) was employed as a newspaper reporter before becoming famous as a novelist, and in this position he published many satirical articles. He left two separate journalism positions, Nevada (1864) fleeing a challenge to duel and San Francisco fleeing outraged police officials because his satire and fiction were often taken for the truthful accounts they were presented as. Ironically, the accuracy of many newspaper and autobiographical accounts used to follow the early life of Samuel Clemens are in doubt.\n\nNewspapers still print occasional news satire features, in particular on April Fools' Day. This news is specifically identified somewhere in the paper or in the next day as a joke.\n\nIn 1934, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer released a series of ten one-reel theatrical shorts called \"Goofy Movies\", which included \"Wotaphony Newsreel,\" a newsreel parody that paired actual footage with a mocking, deadpan narration.\n\nAlso in 1934, halfway through a Kraft Music Hall radio show, Dean Taylor (\"Others collect the news, Dean makes it!\") narrated a fake newsreel which began with a report on the New York Giants and Philadelphia Phillies being cancelled due to bad weather, and baseball season being rescheduled to when farmers need rain.\n\nNews satire has been prevalent on television since the 1960s, when it enjoyed a renaissance in the UK with the \"Satire Boom\", led by such luminaries as Peter Cook, Alan Bennett, Jonathan Miller, David Frost, Eleanor Bron, and Dudley Moore, and the television program \"That Was The Week That Was\". In the United States, the NBC network adapted this program and also produced its own content, from the \"news\" segment of \"Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In\", to the still-running \"Saturday Night Live\" mock newscast segment \"Weekend Update\". Cable television got into the cable news act with Home Box Office's \"Not Necessarily the News\" in the mid-1980s.\n\nIn the 2000s, Comedy Central's \"The Daily Show\" became an icon of the American political satire genre, as Jon Stewart delved into opinionated political criticism. Its spinoff, Stephen Colbert's \"The Colbert Report\", also enjoyed a high level of popularity during its 9-year run.\n\nThe 2004 National Annenberg Election Survey found that \"Daily Show\" viewers were better informed than those who relied solely on conventional network news, and Steven Young of \"Los Angeles Daily News\" compares the trust and influence that long-time host Jon Stewart enjoyed to that of CBS anchor Walter Cronkite in the 1970s. However, a study published in the \"Journal of Communication\" suggests that news entertainment shows such as \"The Daily Show\" or \"The Colbert Report\" may not be as influential in teaching voters about political issues and candidates as was previously thought. Researchers from Ohio State University have found reasons to discount how effective these shows are in informing the general public. People watching television news learned more about a candidate's position on issues and about political procedures compared to those watching the news entertainment shows, while news entertainment shows primarily taught viewers about a candidate’s personal background.\n\nAfter the success of \"The Daily Show\", Fox News launched its own news satire program in February 2007 with the title of \"The 1/2 Hour News Hour\". Its creator describes it as \"The Daily Show for conservatives\", but it was canceled within a few months. Fox News then launched the more successful series \"Red Eye\" which ran from February 6, 2007 to April 7, 2017. As of 2017, news satire in the United States remains popular, especially in late night television; late-night talk shows often incorporate elements of news satire. Current American programs known primarily for their news satire include those hosted by former correspondents for \"The Daily Show\" (John Oliver's \"Last Week Tonight\", Samantha Bee's \"Full Frontal\", and \"The Daily Show\" itself under Trevor Noah's tenure), as well as Bill Maher's \"Real Time\".\n\nIn Britain, several news satires have been created, most famously the works of Chris Morris. Shows such as the radio series \"On the Hour\" and its television version \"The Day Today\" parodied news programs very accurately, so they were almost believable and could have been confused with actual news programs, if it was not for the fake stories reported. Morris went on to continue this and several other themes in \"Brass Eye\", one of the most controversial series on British television, especially after one episode broadcast mocked the way the news covered stories about pedophilia. Previous news satire shows in Britain include: \"The Late Edition\" with Marcus Brigstocke, on digital station BBC Four, which was heavily influenced by \"The Daily Show\"; \"News Knight with Sir Trevor McDonald\", which parodied news differently by using an actual newsreader as the host; and \"Broken News\", which featured several sketches of different news channels blending into each other.\n\nAs of 2018, current British news-related programs that have been described as satire include: \"Have I Got News for You\" and \"Mock the Week\" on the BBC; Channel 4's \"The Last Leg\"; ITV's \"Newzoids\"; and Dave's \"Unspun with Matt Forde\".\n\nRecent news satire television series in Australia include Working Dog Productions' \"Frontline\", Shaun Micallef's \"Newstopia\", and the many programs created by The Chaser since 2001. As of 2017, current programs of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation include \"Shaun Micallef's Mad as Hell\" and \"The Weekly with Charlie Pickering\".\n\nIn Canada, \"This Hour Has 22 Minutes\" is an ensemble news satire show with four anchors on CBC. The \"Rick Mercer Report\" is a spinoff of \"22 Minutes\" with former anchor Rick Mercer, and is also shown on CBC. CBC Radio One features \"This Is That\", an improvised news satire program which mimics the style of actual CBC Radio public affairs programs. The 1960s series \"This Hour Has Seven Days\", although primarily a real newsmagazine, included some satirical features in its format, such as political humor songs by actress and singer Dinah Christie. On French-language television networks in Quebec, noted news satire shows have included \"La Fin du monde est à 7 heures\", \"Et Dieu créa... Laflaque\" and \"Infoman\". On the Internet, noted satire sites include \"The Lapine\" and \"The Beaverton\".\n\nIn Germany, heute-show (ZDF), and formerly Wochenshow (on SAT.1) and Freitag Nacht News (on RTL) are popular news satires on TV.\n\nThe Egyptian show \"El Bernameg\", hosted by Bassem Youssef (on Capital Broadcast Center 2011-13 and MBC MASR from 2014 on), is modeled on \"The Daily Show\". Launched in the wake of the Egyptian Revolution of 2011, it has been quite popular, but also a source of tremendous controversy, as Youssef has repeatedly been under investigation by the authorities for his willingness to poke fun at powerful people.\n\nNews satire has been posted on the web almost since its inception, with \"The Onion\" foremost among recognized news satire sites due to its enduring and profitable business model. The content of the website, which started in 1996, is syndicated through mainstream media sites such as CNN and CNET. Today there are hundreds of news satire sites online. Sites such as Hollywood Leek specialize in satirical articles about celebrities and Hollywood entertainment news. Sometimes fake news reporters influence real world politics, like Citizen Kate whose 90 episodes covered the 2008 presidential campaign trail, she commissioned a butter bust of Obama presented to him by the Butter Cow Lady of Iowa, making international headlines. El Koshary Today is an Egyptian website that carries fake international news stories. Other satire sites attempt to emulate a genuine news source of some sort; however, these sites now take a variety of forms.\n\nBecause interesting stories are often emailed and can quickly become separated from their point of origin, it is not uncommon for news satire stories to be picked up as real by the media, as happened with a \"Faking News\" story about a lawsuit against Axe by an Indian man after having failed to attract a girl. Additionally, a parody post on Al Sharpton's parody News Groper blog was quoted as if real by MSNBC. Another satire publication, \"The Giant Napkin\", published an article about a man literally fighting his house fire with more fire, a story taken seriously by several social networking sites. That Google News accepts news satire sources helps contribute to this phenomenon; while Google News does mark such stories with a \"satire\" tag, not all readers notice the tag; moreover, sometimes satirical sources may not carry the tag. At least one site, \"thespoof.com\", relies on user-generated content in a Web 2.0 manner.\n\nSome websites like \"Literally Unbelievable post\" the genuine and shocked reactions of individuals who believe the satirical articles are real. The reactions are taken from social media websites, such as Facebook, in which users can directly comment on links to the article's source.\n\nMulti-author Indian website News That Matters Not, launched in November 2009, won a Manthan South Asia Award for socially responsible e-content (Digital Inclusion for Development), organized by Digital Empowerment Foundation. In India, several community-based news satire websites have crept up in recent times. Their popularity on Facebook defines that they are popular amongst the masses. Very new websites such as The Scoop Times, Fakekhabar.com, Sunkey.co.in and The UnReal Times also claim to be run by students, and were covered in \"The Times of India\" in July 2011.\n\nA plethora of news satire sites participate in a hosted community site, which additionally runs its own satire news feed on HumorFeed. HumorFeed is notable for its relatively high standards of admission and active community involvement. At present, over 60 sites are contributing members, at least eight of which have published books and two of which publish regular hard-copy periodicals. Several HumorFeed members also run \"Check Please!\", an online journal devoted to the serious examination of online satire, ranging from its role in relation to actual journalism to practical considerations of producing an online satire site.\n\nIn July 2009, a satire piece about Kanye West published on the website ScrapeTV was picked up by numerous media outlets and reported as factual, despite disclaimers on the site.\n\nSatirical Twitter accounts of news sources are popular, and they are often mistaken as legitimate sources. Online publications have made quizzes challenging users to distinguish between the tweets of the real \"Vice\" and the tweets of their parodies. The @Salondotcom parody account confused so many Twitter users that the real Salon.com reported them for impersonation.\n\nIn Pakistan, Khabaristan Times (KT) is a renowned satire and parody website with its commentary on Pakistani politics and the military. In 2015, a satirical piece by the website went viral and international media outlets including New York Times reported the story as if it were true. In 2017, KT was reportedly blocked in Pakistan, however, it appeared to be available to users outside Pakistan.\n\nIn the Middle East, \"The Pan-Arabia Enquirer\" is the most widely read satirical news website. It gained notoriety in 2013 when an article about Emirates launching shisha lounges on its fleet of A380s was picked up as fact by news websites around the world. \"AlHudood\", another middle eastern satire news publisher, has gained publicity in the region when they published an article about the Jordanian police arresting Santa Claus and confiscating all of his gifts for not paying the customs before entering Jordan.\n\nIn Turkey, Zaytung has become a source of mass reading since the socio-political Gezi Park 2013 protests in Turkey.\n\nIn the Caribbean, Trinidad and Tobago-based website Wired868 has two satirical columnists under the pseudonyms Mr Live Wire and Filbert Street, who comment satirically on relevant political and news stories such as the fall from power of ex-FIFA vice-president Jack Warner, media issues, general news and the challenges faced by Prime Minister Kamla Persad-Bissessar and her People's Partnership coalition Government.\n\nIn Australia, there are numerous satirical news websites including \"The Shovel, The Betoota Advocate\", \"The (Un)Australian\", \"The Fault Report\", \"The Sauce\" and \"The Tunnel Presents\". \"The Shovel\" mainly satirizes the Australian political and social culture and \"The Betoota Advocate\" satirizes the political right and Australian journalism. In February 2015, \"The Betoota Advocate\" shot to fame after the publication's editor's sneaked in to the media scrum outside Parliament House in Canberra during a leadership spill motion and managed to interview some of Australia's most high-profile media personalities and politicians, posing as legitimate journalists. The fallout from \"The Betoota Advocate\" stunt has led to a security increase surrounding parliamentary media and screening of all crew. \"The Fault Report\" was established in 2014 and also has a political editorial focus. British-born Australian author John Birmingham once described \"The Fault Report\" as, \"Like \"The Onion\". But with Vegemite\", on his blog Cheeseburger Gothic. \"The Tunnel Presents\", which has been online since June 2011, is by Brisbane-based satire writing team The Tunnel and has political and social satire stories with a Queensland focus.\n\nIn Italy, the most famous website specialized in mock-journalism is . Born as a parody of the popular press, but in addition to the tabloid press, its goals are also the domestic and foreign politics. The website was created in the 2012 and the editorial staff is composed of authors who have contributed to La Palestra, a column wanted on his blog by the comedian and satirical author Daniele Luttazzi. In few years Lercio saw the publication of a book with a collection of 2014 best articles. From the same year Lercio it is present on the national radio with a daily strip. Thanks to the many fans the articles are shared on the social network with a good success and, mostly in the beginning of his history, some articles were taken as true by the national press.\n\nIn Hungary, HírCsárda is the number one news satire medium. The site, started in 2010, has drawn public attention after the Hungarian government demanded that an article should be emended that dealt with the then state secretary of education Rózsa Hoffmann. The page has since been threatened by various celebrities, but has remained active regardless. Also present in Hungary is Központi Újság (Central News), a news satire website of the joke party Hungarian Two-tailed Dog Party.\n\nTreefort Music Fest, a grassroots music festival in Boise, Idaho, has satirically used the television news format to announce its line-up of bands.\n\nIn 2015, John J Edmunds IV launched season 1 of New Jersey based satire news show, \"My Minute Minute.\" The program is an internet based show streamed live in high definition to Facebook LIVE, YouTube, Periscope & YouNow streaming services on a weekly basis. The show producer, John Edmunds tells stories of Political corruption, medical corruption, Drug-related crimes, sneaky business owners and operations and stories of satirical nature. They publish weekly at www.SatireNews.tv\n\n"}
{"id": "45299438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45299438", "title": "Norwegian porridge feud", "text": "Norwegian porridge feud\n\nThe Norwegian porridge feud (\"grautstriden\") were a series of public debates that was going on in Norway between 1864 and 1866, concerned with the optimal way of cooking porridge. The participants were Peter Christen Asbjørnsen and Eilert Sundt. The core of the debate was about whether or not it was redundant to add flour to porridge after cooking it.\n\nThe background for the debate was that Asbjørnsen published a cookbook in 1864 called \"Fornuftigt Madstel. En tidsmæssig Koge- og Husholdningsbog\" (approximately translated as, \"Sensible Fare. A Modern Cooking and Housekeeping Book\"), under the pseudonym Clemens Bonifacius, where he argued that the addition of flour to the porridge was wasteful. Asbjørnsen believed that the human body could simply not extract any nutritional value from the flour; he believed that it was uncooked and that uncooked flour was indigestible. On the other side, Sundt argued that one should trust the competence of the Norwegian porridge makers gathered through generations.\n\nAsbjørnsen's belief that the flour remained uncooked was incorrect, as the flour cooks when it is stirred into the hot, watery dish.\n\nLater sources say that adding flour to porridge is sometimes necessary to make it thicken properly, especially if the porridge is cooked with grains of doubtful quality, such as most Norwegian cooks would have encountered after a bad harvest. In this analysis, flour was neither added because women followed the traditions of previous generations, nor omitted in the name of science and domestic economy, but added because it produced the desired texture.\n"}
{"id": "12398249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12398249", "title": "Preah Suramarit National Theatre", "text": "Preah Suramarit National Theatre\n\nThe Preah Suramarit Theatre or the Bassac Theatre is the former national theatre of Cambodia in the capital Phnom Penh.\n\nDesigned by chief national architect Vann Molyvann in 1966, it opened in 1968 as the Grand Théâtre Preah Bat Norodom Suramarit (aka Mohorsrop Theatre). Built to resemble a ship on the banks of the Bassac River, the venue was known for its wide stage and excellent acoustics for Cambodian drama and musicals. The theatre building became a landmark structure in modern Phnom Penh. It was demolished in 2008.\n\nBefore Pol Pot, at least 300 artists were professionally engaged at the Bassac theatre to give fairly regular performances of classical and folk dance, bassac opera, yike, spoken theatre, acrobatics and live music. About 80 percent never returned. During the 1980s, the Ministry of Culture made a concerted effort to identify and lure all surviving musicians back to Phnom Penh, triggering the beginnings of a cultural revival punctuated with a 1988 festival inside a Bassac Theatre which had been little affected by the wars.\n\nHowever, in February 1994, during renovation efforts, there was disastrous fire that gutted the entire auditorium and the venue has remained a burned-out shell ever since.\n\nAt the time of the fire, the building was not insured and the culture minister at the time, Nouth Narang, who had not signed any contract with the French company carrying out the renovation work, immediately launched an appeal for $12 million to rebuild the theatre. The minister reportedly offended the International Technological Committee overseeing the renovation and with it the French Embassy that had put up the money by inferring that arson was involved, or at the very least incompetence of the welders. The arson claim was perhaps given credence by one man's claim that he had been paid 500 Thai baht to set the fire.\n\nDespite the devastating consequences of the fire, the lobby continued to be used on a daily basis for Khmer classical dance practice by the National Theatre Company of Cambodia, which was based at the Directorate of Performing Arts to the rear of the building.\n\nSince the late 1990s, there have been many unsuccessful efforts to seek funds for the restoration of the theatre and to redevelop it as an organisational base and national venue. Whilst a $20,000 project by the late Cambodian architect Brum Dar-ravudh, providing the facilities for several rehearsal spaces the National Theatre's head, Mao Keng, a former dancer, has aimed to build a brand-new, state-of-the-art building, which has been rejected by the Cambodian Council of Ministers. A more ambitious project for a completely new theatre that including dressing rooms, a cafeteria and a swimming pool was proposed in 1999 but never got the green light.\n\nSisowath Kulachad, speaking on behalf of Culture Minister Prince Sisowath Panara Sirivuth, said in November 2004 that Prime Minister Hun Sen and National Assembly President Norodom Ranariddh had conceived a plan to create a new, much expanded theatre. It would cost between $28 and $30 million and be situated in the middle of Boueng Kak Lake. Despite this, the plans soon diminished from media attention.\n\nIn the ensuing years, neither the Ministry of Culture nor any of the Cambodian cultural or political establishments were able to raise the finances to restore the theatre and succeed with the proposals resulting in a stalemate.\n\nIn early 2005 the disposal of the theatre site was given to a local developer and business man, Mr Kith Meng, who later executed its complete destruction. \n\nFilmmaker Rithy Panh's 2005 docudrama, \"The Burnt Theatre\", is set in the remains of the theatre, and depicts a theatre troupe struggling to practice their art and keep fine arts alive in Cambodia.\n\n"}
{"id": "5359189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5359189", "title": "Psycho (novel)", "text": "Psycho (novel)\n\nPsycho is a 1959 thriller novel by American writer Robert Bloch. The novel tells the story of Norman Bates, caretaker at an isolated motel who struggles under his domineering mother and becomes embroiled into a series of murders. The novel is widely recognized as Bloch's most enduring work and one of the most influential horror books of the 20th Century.\n\nThe story was adapted into Alfred Hitchcock's seminal 1960 film of the same name, and was loosely adapted into the \"Bates Motel\" television series (2013-2017). Bloch later wrote two sequels, which are unrelated to any of the film sequels.\n\nNorman Bates, a middle-aged bachelor, is dominated by his mother, a mean-tempered, puritanical old woman who forbids him to have a life outside of her. They run a small motel together in the town of Fairvale, but business has floundered since the state relocated the highway. In the middle of a heated argument between them, a customer arrives, a young woman named Mary Crane.\n\nMary is on the run after impulsively stealing $40,000 from a client of the real estate company where she works. She stole the money so her boyfriend, Sam Loomis, could pay off his debts and they could finally get married. Mary arrives at the Bates Motel after accidentally turning off the main highway. Exhausted, she accepts Bates' invitation to have dinner with him at his house, an invitation that sends Mrs. Bates into a jealous rage; she screams, \"I'll kill the bitch!\", which Mary then hears.\n\nDuring dinner, Mary gently suggests that Bates put his mother in a mental institution, but he denies that there is anything wrong with her; \"We all go a little mad sometimes\", he states. Mary says goodnight and returns to her room, resolving to return the money so she will not end up like Bates. Moments later in the shower, however, a figure resembling an old woman frightens Mary with a butcher knife, and then beheads her.\n\nBates, who had passed out drunk after dinner, returns to the motel and finds Mary's bloody corpse. He is instantly convinced his mother is the murderer. He briefly considers letting her go to prison, but changes his mind after having a nightmare in which she sinks in quicksand, only to turn into him as she goes under. His mother comes to comfort him, and he decides to dispose of Mary's body, belongings, and car in the swamp, and go on with life as usual.\n\nMeanwhile, Mary's sister, Lila, tells Sam of her sister's disappearance. They are soon joined by Milton Arbogast, a private investigator hired by Mary's boss to retrieve the money. Sam and Lila agree to let Arbogast lead the search for Mary. Arbogast eventually meets up with Bates, who says that Mary had left after one night; when he asks to talk with his mother, Bates refuses. This arouses Arbogast's suspicion, and he calls Lila and tells her that he is going to try to talk to Mrs. Bates. When he enters the house, the same mysterious figure who killed Mary ambushes him in the foyer, and kills him with a razor.\n\nSam and Lila go to Fairvale to look for Arbogast, and meet with the town sheriff, who tells them that Mrs. Bates has been dead for years, having committed suicide by poisoning her lover and herself. The young Norman had a nervous breakdown after finding them and was sent for a time to a mental institution. Sam and Lila go to the motel to investigate. Sam distracts Bates while Lila goes to get the sheriff—but she actually proceeds up to the house to investigate on her own. There she finds various books on occultism, abnormal psychology, metaphysics and one containing pornographic images, in his bedroom. During a conversation with Sam, Bates says that his mother had only \"pretended\" to be dead, and had communicated with him while he was in the institution. Bates then tells Sam that Lila tricked him and went up to the house and that his mother was waiting for her. Bates then knocks Sam unconscious with a liquor bottle that he'd been drinking from. At the house, Lila is horrified to discover Mrs. Bates's mummified corpse on the floor, in the fruit cellar. As she screams, a figure rushes into the room with a knife—Norman Bates, dressed in his mother's clothes. Sam regains consciousness, enters the room and subdues Norman before he can harm Lila.\n\nAt the police station, Sam talks to a psychiatrist who had examined Bates, while the county highway crew is out dredging the swamp to uncover the automobiles, revealing the bodies of Mary and Arbogast; a media frenzy imagines countless additional victims to be uncovered if the swamp is further drained, but \"the newspaper writers didn't have to foot the bill for such a project.\" Sam learns that Bates and his mother had lived together in a state of total codependence ever since his father deserted them when he was still a young child. Along the way, introverted, awkward, and filled with seething rage, Norman became a secret transvestite, impersonating his mother. A bookworm, he became fascinated with the occult, spiritualism, and Satanism. When his mother took a lover named Joe Considine, Bates went over the edge with jealousy and poisoned them both, forging a suicide note in his mother's handwriting. To suppress the guilt of matricide, he developed a dissociative identity disorder (\"split personality\") in the outside world. He retrieved her corpse from the cemetery and preserved it and, whenever the illusion was threatened, would drink heavily, dress in her clothes and speak to himself in her voice. The \"Mother\" personality killed Mary because \"she\" was jealous of Norman feeling affection for another woman.\n\nBates is declared psychotic and put in a mental institution for life. Days later, the \"Mother\" personality completely takes over Bates's mind; he virtually \"becomes\" his mother. However, in a double-twist ending, \"Mother\" reveals she had to take over, as Norman's personality was actually the murderous psychotic one, and that \"she\" in fact couldn't hurt a fly.\n\nIn November 1957 — two years before \"Psycho\" was first published — Ed Gein was arrested in his hometown of Plainfield, Wisconsin for the murders of two women. When police searched his home, they found furniture, silverware, and even clothing made of human skin and body parts. Psychiatrists examining him theorized that he was trying to make a \"woman suit\" to wear so he could pretend to be his dead mother, whom neighbors described as a puritan who dominated her son.\n\nAt the time of Gein's arrest, Bloch was living away from Plainfield in Weyauwega. Though Bloch was not aware of the Gein case at that time, he began writing with \"the notion that the man next door may be a monster unsuspected even in the gossip-ridden microcosm of small-town life.\" The novel, one of several Bloch wrote about insane killers, was almost completed when Gein and his activities were revealed, so Bloch inserted a line alluding to Gein into one of the final chapters. Bloch was surprised years later when news of Gein's living in isolation with a religiously fanatical mother came to his attention. Bloch \"discovered how closely the imaginary character I'd created resembled the real Ed Gein both in overt act and apparent motivation.\"\n\nBloch wrote two sequels, \"Psycho II\" (1982) and \"Psycho House\" (1990); neither was related to the film sequels. In the novel \"Psycho II\", Bates escapes the asylum disguised as a nun and makes his way to Hollywood. Universal Pictures allegedly did not want to film it because of its social commentary on splatter films. In the novel \"Psycho House\", murders begin again when the Bates Motel is reopened as a tourist attraction.\n\nIn 2016, a fourth installment, titled \"Robert Bloch's Psycho: Sanitarium\" written by Chet Williamson, was released. The book is set between the events of the original novel and \"Psycho II\", recounting the events which took place in a state hospital for the criminally insane where Bates is an inpatient.\n\nBloch's novel was adapted in 1960 into the feature film by director Alfred Hitchcock. It was written by Joseph Stefano and starred Anthony Perkins as Bates and Janet Leigh in an Academy Award-nominated performance as Marion Crane (changed from \"Mary\" for the film, as there was a Mary Crane in Phoenix at that time). Hitchcock helped devise a promotional and marketing scheme for his film that insisted that critics would not get advance screenings, and that no one would be admitted into the theater after the film had began. The promotional scheme also exhorted audiences not to reveal the twist ending. Twenty-three years after the release of Hitchcock's film and three years after the director's death came the first of three sequels, all featuring Perkins.\n\nAfter \"Psycho III\" there was also a television pilot named \"Bates Motel\", in which Bates briefly appears played by another actor. It is not in continuity with the final sequel \"\". Gus Van Sant directed a 1998 remake of the original film in which virtually every camera angle and line of dialogue was duplicated from the original. It starred Vince Vaughn as Bates and Anne Heche as Marion Crane. It was reviled by critics and performed poorly at the box office.\n\nThe Hitchcock version of the film is rated number one on the American Film Institute's list of one hundred most thrilling films.\n"}
{"id": "22907072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22907072", "title": "Purple Songs Can Fly", "text": "Purple Songs Can Fly\n\nPurple Songs Can Fly is a non-profit organization that sponsors a music program at the Texas Children's Cancer Center in Houston, Texas. It allows patients at the hospital to compose and record songs in a real studio.\n\nThe program was founded in March 2006 by Anita Kruse, a songwriter and pianist. The Love Street Light Circus donated $10,000 to build a studio at the hospital. By January 2009, patients have recorded over 116 songs.\n\nAccording to David Poplack, \"the arts have therapeutic value\" and can improve the recovery of the patients.\n\nIn 2007, seven songs created through Purple Songs Can Fly were burned on purple CDs and were then played on Continental Airlines flights.\n\n"}
{"id": "56171995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56171995", "title": "Sherlock Holmes and the Shadwell Shadows", "text": "Sherlock Holmes and the Shadwell Shadows\n\nSherlock Holmes and the Shadwell Shadows is a mystery novel by James Lovegrove. It is a Sherlock Holmes pastiche that involves H. P. Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos. It is the first book in a planned trilogy of \"The Cthulhu Casebooks\" with the second novel, \"Sherlock Holmes and the Miskatonic Monstrosities\", having been released in November 2017 and the third, \"Sherlock Holmes and the Sussex Sea-Devils\", in November 2018.\n\nA series of mysterious deaths inspire Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson to investigate the criminal element of the East End of London. Their investigation leads to crime lord Gong-Fen Shou but further opens their eyes to the existence of something much worse.\n\nReviewers have praised Lovegrove's use of Doyle's characters within a Lovecraftian conceit. Glenn Dallas of \"Seattle Book Review\" said \"Lovegrove does an outstanding job of evoking Doyle’s style and mixing in healthy dollops of the macabre and fantastic that define the Cthulhu Mythos.\" \"The Guardian\" said of the novel, \"The pastiche is pitch-perfect; Lovegrove tells a thrilling tale and vividly renders the atmosphere of Victorian London.\" \"Starburst\" magazine said of the book \"It retains the spirit of classic Holmes, while the integration of Lovecraft mythos is handled with careful aplomb.\" Bob Byrne for \"Black Gate\" said \"If you like your Holmes with some horror: or if you like Cthulhu tales, I think you are going to like this book.\" Byrne particularly liked that Lovegrove showed a \"unpolished Holmes\" early in his career.\n"}
{"id": "1836932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1836932", "title": "Snuff bottle", "text": "Snuff bottle\n\nSnuff bottles were used by the Chinese, Mongolians during the Qing Dynasty to contain powdered tobacco. Smoking tobacco was illegal during the Qing Dynasty, but the use of snuff was allowed because the Chinese considered snuff to be a remedy for common illnesses such as colds, headaches and stomach disorders. Therefore, snuff was carried in a small bottle like other medicines. The snuff bottle replaced the snuff box used by Europeans.\n\nTobacco was introduced by the Portuguese to the court at Beijing some time during the mid- to late-16th century. It was originally smoked in pipes before the establishment of the Qing Dynasty. The use of snuff and snuff bottles spread through the upper class, and by the end of the 17th century it had become a part of social ritual to use snuff. This lasted through most of the 18th century. Eventually, the trend spread into the rest of the country and into every social class. It was common to offer a pinch of snuff as a way to greet friends and relatives. Snuff bottles soon became an object of beauty and a way to represent status and wealth.\n\nThe use of snuff increased and decreased with the rise and fall of the Qing Dynasty and died away soon after the establishment of the Republic of China. However, contemporary snuff bottles are still being made, and can be purchased in souvenir shops, flea markets and museum gift shops. Original snuff bottles from the Qing period are a desirable target for serious collectors and museums. A good bottle has an extra quality over and above its exquisite beauty and value: that is touch. Snuff bottles were made to be held and so, as a rule, they have a pleasant tactile quality.\n\nThe size of a snuff bottle is small enough to fit inside the palm. Snuff bottles were made out of many different materials including porcelain, jade, rhinoceros horn, ivory, wood, tortoiseshell, metal and ceramic, though probably the most commonly used material was glass. The stopper usually had a very small spoon attached for extracting the snuff. Though rare, such bottles were also used by women in Europe in Victorian times, with the bottles typically made of cut glass.\n\nChinese snuff bottles were typically decorated with paintings or carvings, which distinguished bottles of different quality and value. Decorative bottles were, and remain, time-consuming in their production and are thus desirable for today's collectors.\n\n Many bottles are completely devoid of decoration, others are incredibly ornate. As in all Chinese arts and crafts, motifs and symbols play an important part in decorative detail. Symbols are derived from a multitude of sources such as legends, history, religion, philosophy and superstition. The ideas used are almost always directed toward bringing wealth, health, good luck, longevity, even immortality to the owner of an artifact, frequently as a wish expressed in a kind of coded form by the giver of a gift. Probably the most popular decoration is the Shou character, a symbol of happiness and longevity, illustrated at right. Shou or Sau was one of Three Star Gods.\n\nAnother popular device is a representation of the 18 Lohan, who were the personal disciples of Buddha, just one group of the many revered immortals in China. Apart from the 18 Lohan there is a constellation of other divines who are portrayed, even their innards. The eight precious organs of the Buddha are venerated – his heart, gall bladder, spleen, lungs, liver, stomach, kidneys and intestines. These are rarely depicted on snuff bottles. Animals, on the other hand appear with regularity, the most common being the dragon.\n\nThe three legged toad is a mythical creature. It was thought to be an animated purse containing an inexhaustible supply of coins, hence it represents wealth and has become a symbol of the unattainable.\n\nThe fish is both an emblem of wealth and abundance and of harmony and connubial bliss. The fish emblem is used in a variety of decorative ways. Bamboo is a frequent motif. Because of its durability and its being evergreen it has come, along with many other symbols, to signify longevity.\n\n \"Inside painted\" are glass bottles which have pictures and often calligraphy painted on the inside surface of the glass.\n\nTheir scenes are an inch or two high and are painted while manipulating the brush through the neck of the bottle at times only a quarter inch across, in reverse. Ursula Bourne, in her treatise on snuff, suggested that artisans painted on their backs to make it easier to work through the narrow opening. \nA skilled artist may complete a simple bottle in a week while something special may take a month or more and the best craftsmen will produce only a few bottles in a year.\n\nThe earliest inside painted bottles were made in the period between 1820 and 1830 because by then the beauty of a snuff bottle was probably more important than utilitarian considerations and few would have been used for holding snuff. Inside painted bottles are still made expensively for collectors and inexpensively as souvenirs.\n\nLike other types of snuff bottle, the range of subject matter treated by inside painted bottles includes among others fish, birds, poems, scenes, and portraits. They are intended to be viewed as miniature paintings within the bottle.\n\nIn recent years a popular method of snuff insufflation has been the snuff bullet. A simple snuff bullet consists of a small bottle with a plug in the base, a rotatable \"dosing chamber\" and a hole on the top. More advanced snuff bullets have variable dosing settings. They can be made of plastic, glass or metal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2988066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2988066", "title": "Student voice", "text": "Student voice\n\nStudent voice is \"any expression of any learner regarding anything related to education\" and describes \"the distinct perspectives and actions of young people throughout schools focused on education. Tech educator Dennis Harper writes, \"Student voice is giving students the ability to influence learning to include policies, programs, contexts and principles.\"\n\nStudent voice is the individual and collective perspective and actions of students within the context of learning and education. It is identified in schools as both a metaphorical practice and as a pragmatic concern.\n\nAccording to Fletcher (2017), student voice is a phenomenon that has always been present in schools; what makes it noticeable is the willingness of educators and others to listen to student voice.\n\nStudent voice work is premised on the following convictions:\n\nSeveral typologies differentiate the practices that identify as student voice. One identifies multiple roles for students throughout the education system, including education planning, research, teaching, evaluating, decision-making and advocacy.\n\nThe presence and engagement of student voice has been seen as essential to the educational process since at least the time of John Dewey, if not long before. In 1916 Dewey wrote extensively about the necessity of engaging student experience and perspectives in the curriculum of schools, summarizing his support by saying,:\nThe essence of the demand for freedom is the need of conditions which will enable an individual to make his own special contribution to a group interest, and to partake of its activities in such ways that social guidance shall be a matter of his own mental attitude, and not a mere authoritative dictation of his acts.\n\nToday student voice is seeing a resurgence of importance as a growing body of literature increasingly identifies student voice as necessary throughout the educational process. Areas where advocates encourage actively acknowledging student voice include curriculum design and instructional methods, Educational leadership and general school reform activities, including research and evaluation.\n\nSpecific types of activities that can specifically engage student voice include learning by teaching, education decision-making, school planning, participatory action research, learning and teaching evaluations, educational advocacy, and student advisories for principals and superintendents.\n\nEngaging student voice is a primary objective of service learning, which commonly seeks to entwine classroom learning objectives with community service opportunities. Student voice is also present in student government programs, experiential education activities, and other forms of student-centered learning.\nEngaging students as educational decision-makers is the practice of actively teaching young people responsibility for their education by systematically engaging them in making choices about learning, schooling, and the education system in areas ranging from what affects them personally to what affects an entire student body to what affects the entire school system.\n\nChoosing curricula, calendar year planning, school building design, teacher hiring, and many more issues are often seen as the duties of a school principal or teachers. Today those roles are increasingly seen as avenues for student voice. Students are joining boards of education at all levels, including local, district, and state boards. Some education agencies engage students as staff in programs where they make decisions about grant making, school assessment, and other areas. Students are also participating in decision-making by establishing and enforcing codes of conduct and in personal education decision-making, such as choosing classes and deciding whether to attend school.\n\nEducation reform has long been the domain of parents, teachers, school administrators and politicians. In some nations, however, there is a growing trend of greater student participation in scholastic affairs.\n\nThe \"Connect\" journal, published in Melbourne, features dozens of examples of student voice throughout education in its bi-monthly publication.\n\nThe Victorian Student Representative Council is the umbrella or peak body of Student Councils in Victoria, Australia. It is supported with funding from the Victorian Department of Education and Early Childhood Development (DEECD) and auspiced by the Youth Affairs Council of Victoria (YACVic). The VicSRC is an organisation run by secondary school students, elected by their peers.\n\nThe New South Wales Student Representative Council is the peak student leadership consultative and decision-making forum in New South Wales.\n\nIncluding student voice on district school boards was mandated by the Ontario Education Act in 1998. Students in each one of the 72 provincial school boards are represented by a 'pupil representative', commonly called \"Student Trustee\". They are meant to represent the needs and concerns of students in discussions with the school board administration and the province. The Ontario Student Trustees' Association, OSTA-AECO, has become Ontario's chief student stakeholder, providing professional development to its members and advocates for students' educational interests. The Society for Democratic Education is an organization in Toronto that includes many aspects of heightened student inclusion in education reform policy. The Society for Democratic Education was founded in early 2005 by Bianca Wylie. It has published several essays and position papers that discuss the importance of wide-scale education reform, especially in how it applies to secondary level education and civic education.\n\nAnother Canadian organization of note is Learning for a Cause founded in 2004 by educator and poet Michael Ernest Sweet Learning for a Cause which promotes student voices for social change through creative writing and publishing opportunities for Canadian students.\n\nProvincial governments and Ministries of Education across Canada are also getting on board with student engagement and student voice. Alberta Education launched Speak Out – the Alberta Student Engagement Initiative in November 2008 and thousands of students have been sharing their ideas on how to improve how education looks and feels for them.\n\nOntario's SpeakUp initiative seeks students ideas on what strengthens their engagement in their learning. Ontario's student voice program is centered on four main initiatives, the Minister's Student Advisory Council (MSAC), SpeakUp projects, SpeakUp in a Box and Student Regional Forums.\n\nThe Minister’s Student Advisory Council (MSAC) is composed of sixty students, from Grades 7 to 12, they are selected annually to share their ideas and submit recommendations directly to the Ontario Minister of Education. MSAC also determines the themes for Regional Student Forums taking place during the school year. The members of the Minister's Student Advisory Council have been selected in each year since the inaugural year including 2010, 2011, and 2012. SpeakUp projects are micro-grants for students. Student submit applications for projects they have designed that support the goals of the Student Voice initiative, over 1.2 million dollars in grant money is available yearly. Over 5000 SpeakUp projects have been led since 2008. Regional Student Forums are held across the province where students are invited to explore, discuss, and make recommendations about factors that facilitate/hinder their learning. Last, SpeakUp in a box allows students to hold their own forums for 30 people free of charge with the Ontario Ministry of Education providing the materials to do so. More information is available at SpeakUp.\n\nThe Calgary Board of Education, in 2010, launched the Chief Superintendent's Student Advisory Council – a group of high school students with student representation from each of the Calgary Board of Education's high school programs. They meet regularly with the Calgary Board of Education's Chief Superintendent, Naomi Johnson, to discuss issues in the system and propose solutions.\n\nStudent Voice Initiative is a national movement in Canada to give students a voice in their education. Student Voice Initiative operates on a foundation of support from policy-makers, school administrators, academics, and students from across North America and the world in support of giving students a greater voice in their own education. The core mandate of the organization arose from the success of the 'student trustee' position within the Ontario education community, which has fostered a student leadership framework ranging from student councils at every school, to student senates and student trustees at the regional or district school board level, to the formation of a provincial stakeholder in the Ontario Student Trustees' Association.\n\nA powerful example of student voice in school improvement comes from the 2006 student protests in Chile. Throughout the spring of that year, public high school students from across the country began a series of protests, school takeovers, and negotiations designed to bolster support for public education improvement. After seeing the massive effect of the students, government officials met their demands and are working to support ongoing reforms as necessitated by students.\n\nThe government's failure at meeting the core student proposals triggered the biggest social protests in Chile since the return of democracy, in 2011.\n\nEngland has had a long history of student voice, from Robert Owen's school in New Lanark (allowing the children to direct their learning through questioning, 1816) to Neillie Dick's anarchist school in Whitechapel (set-up by her in 1908 aged 13); A. S. Neill's Summerhill School and Alexander Bloom's St Georges-in-the-East (1945–55). Summerhill School children and staff have been fighting for greater children's rights in schools, running training sessions, presentations and workshops for teachers and children at the House of Commons, London's City Hall, Universities and Schools. They lobbied at the UN Special Session on the Child, spoke at UNESCO and have lobbied the Select Committee on Education. Summerhill School children facilitated the first secondary school children's conference in Dover, involving some 10 schools. Tower Hamlets primary school children have learnt about Summerhill and their legal fight for their children's rights; and regularly work with their local town hall to express their views with the support of HEC Global Learning Centre, including primary conferences.\n\nThe most extensive, sustained programme of student voice research in the UK was carried out by the late Professor Jean Rudduck (Faculty of Education, University of Cambridge) and Jean's pioneering work spanned 20 years, helping to establish the principles of student consultation and student participation in practice, policy and research. Jean co-ordinated the ESRC Teaching and Learning Research Programme's Network Project, 'Consulting Pupils about Teaching and Learning' and her work has had a profound influence on the student voice movement, both in the UK and beyond.\n\nStudentVoice is the representative body for secondary students in England. It aims to support students in expressing their views about education by providing workshops and a network of support with other secondary school students. The National College for School Leadership provides career-long learning and development opportunities, professional and practical support for England's existing and aspiring school leaders. Their goal is to ensure that school leaders have the skills, recognition, capacity and ambition to transform the school education system into the best in the world.\n\nThe Phoenix Education Trust supports democratic education and helped to found StudentVoice It aims to explore and support education in which children are trusted and respected and their participation in decision-making is encouraged. involver supports schools to develop sustainable structures for effective student voice, school councils and participation, and work with teachers and pupils in primary, secondary and special schools. involver provides training, resources, ongoing support and access to a large UK network of schools.\n\nSome state schools are also pushing student Voice internally and independently across the UK. Schools like Quintin Kynaston Community Academy are now recognised for having one of the largest and most active Student Voice 'faculties' in the country.\n\nIn Ireland, the Irish Second-Level Students' Union (ISSU) is the national umbrella body for second-level school Student Councils.\n\nMany national organizations and media outlets across the United States have addressed student voice recently, including KQED, Edutopia, the Washington Post, and others. They are finding organizations like Student Voice, What Kids Can Do and SoundOut, as well as local efforts happening across the country.\n\nSoundOut is an international organization that has promoted student voice since it was founded in 2002. In addition to projects across North America and numerous academic citations of their works, SoundOut has also been recognized by UNICEF as \"a helpful organization that focuses on promoting student voice in \nschools.\" SoundOut's founder, Adam Fletcher, is author of \"The Guide to Student Voice\" and the forthcoming \"Meaningful Student Involvement Handbook\". The organization has also published several works related to meaningful student involvement, students on school boards, and student voice.\n\nStudent Voice is a nationwide grassroots organization that works to unite and elevate the student voice. Through the use of their @Stu_Voice Twitter page, thousands have come together to speak out using the #StuVoice hashtag during weekly Student Voice chats. Student Voice allows any student to publish blog posts on their website, providing a platform for their voices to be heard. Student Voice hosted the first-ever student voice summit on April 13, 2013 in New York City.\n\nWhat Kids Can Do shares stories of student voice throughout the educational process, both within the school system and throughout the community. Their highlights emphasize exceptional learning, belonging, and engagement of students in a variety of capacities for a variety of purposes, the greatest of which is in order to promote student voice. WKCD has authored several books about student voice, primarily written by Kathleen Cushman working with high school students, including \"Fires in the Bathroom: Advice from high schools students for teachers\" and \"Sent to the Principal's Office\". The High School Survey of Student Engagement works with high schools across the country to capture students' beliefs and experiences, and strengthen student engagement in schools. Their work is used nationally to influence school policy making.\n\nAn organization in Minnesota called \"Education|Evolving\" integrates student voices with current major topics in education policy and maintains an online clearinghouse of student voices on education policy. Their website also has students describing the learning experiences on video. The Quaglia Institute for Student Aspirations promotes student voice as well, teaching schools in Maine how to engage learners in different ways., while UP For Learning in Vermont implements programs across the state to support deep student voice. The Prichard Committee for Academic Excellence in Kentucky also has a Student Voice Team promoting the concept statewide by working with policymakers and educators, as well as students and parents.\n\nThe Organising Bureau of European School Student Unions (OBESSU) is the body which connects school student unions in secondary education across Europe.\n\nStudent voice is increasingly identified as a pillar of successful school reform, as educational researchers, academic institutions, and educational support organizations around the world increasingly advocate for the inclusion of students in the reform process after identifying student voice as a vital element of student engagement.\n\nCritical educators including bell hooks, Paulo Freire, and Henry Giroux have voiced concern with the singular notion of a student voice. Adam Fletcher, an internationally recognized expert on student voice, has written about this over-simplification, saying that:\nIt is not enough to simply listen to student voice. Educators have an ethical imperative to do something with students, and that is why meaningful student involvement is vital to school improvement.\n\nThis is echoed by other advocates, including Sam Levin. Levin was an eleventh grade student in Massachusetts when he worked with adults at Monument Mountain Regional High School and his peers to establish an independent learning program for high school students. In a 2014 article in the \"Washington Post\", Levin wrote,\n\n\"Students don't need a voice... The change involves giving something to students, but it's not a voice. Students already have a voice. They have student senates, and student advisory committees. When people talk about student voice, they're talking about feedback sessions and letting students be part of hiring committees. When they say, 'Let's give students a voice,' they mean, 'let's give them a seat at school board meetings.' ...Don't give them a voice. Give them our schools.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44547645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44547645", "title": "Synaesthesia (rhetorical device)", "text": "Synaesthesia (rhetorical device)\n\nSynaesthesia is a rhetorical device or figure of speech where one sense is described in terms of another. This may often take the form of a simile. One can distinguish the literary joining of terms derived from the vocabularies of sensory domains from synaesthesia as a neuropsychological phenomenon.\n\nIt has been suggested that, in the tradition of Romantic poetry, the sensory transfer consisting in the synaesthesic metaphor tends to be from a lower (less differentiated sense) to a higher sense. In this respect, the sequence of senses from low to high is generally taken to be touch, taste, smell, sound, then sight. This observation was named a panchronistic tendency by Stephen Ullmann since he saw the lowest levels of sense having the poorest vocabulary. Upwards transfers are thought to have strong emotional effects, but downwards transfers generally witty effects.\n\nExamples of synaesthesic simile:\n\nWhen a modifier which would normally apply to one sense is used collocating a noun evocative of another sense, this is known as transmodal modification. Examples include:\n\nWhen a noun evoking one sense is linked with a predicate evoking another, this is known as transmodal predication. Examples include:\n\n\nWhen a linkage of two senses depends upon a pun, this is known as synaesthetic polysemy. Examples include:\n"}
{"id": "22166774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22166774", "title": "Synergetics (Fuller)", "text": "Synergetics (Fuller)\n\nSynergetics is the empirical study of systems in transformation, with an emphasis on total system behavior unpredicted by the behavior of any isolated components, including humanity's role as both participant and observer.\n\nSince systems are identifiable at every scale from the quantum level to the cosmic, and humanity both articulates the behavior of these systems and is composed of these systems, synergetics is a very broad discipline, and embraces a broad range of scientific and philosophical studies including tetrahedral and close-packed-sphere geometries, thermodynamics, chemistry, psychology, biochemistry, economics, philosophy and theology. Despite a few mainstream endorsements such as articles by Arthur Loeb and the naming of a molecule \"buckminsterfullerene\", synergetics remains an iconoclastic subject ignored by most traditional curricula and academic departments.\n\nBuckminster Fuller (1895-1983) coined the term and attempted to define its scope in his two-volume work \"Synergetics\". His oeuvre inspired many researchers to tackle branches of synergetics. Three examples: Haken explored self-organizing structures of open systems far from thermodynamic equilibrium, Amy Edmondson explored tetrahedral and icosahedral geometry, Stafford Beer tackled geodesics in the context of social dynamics, and Nystrom proposed a theory of computational cosmography. Many other researchers toil today on aspects of Synergetics, though many deliberately distance themselves from Fuller's broad all-encompassing definition, given its problematic attempt to differentiate and relate all aspects of reality including the ideal and the physically realized, the container and the contained, the one and the many, the observer and the observed, the human microcosm and the universal macrocosm.\n\n\"Synergetics\" is defined by R. Buckminster Fuller (1895-1983) in his two books \"Synergetics\": \"Explorations in the Geometry of Thinking\" and \"Synergetics 2: Explorations in the Geometry of Thinking\" as:\n\nA system of mensuration employing 60-degree vectorial coordination comprehensive to both physics and chemistry, and to both arithmetic and geometry, in rational whole numbers ... Synergetics explains much that has not been previously illuminated ... Synergetics follows the cosmic logic of the structural mathematics strategies of nature, which employ the paired sets of the six angular degrees of freedom, frequencies, and vectorially economical actions and their multi-alternative, equi-economical action options ... Synergetics discloses the excruciating awkwardness characterizing present-day mathematical treatment of the interrelationships of the independent scientific disciplines as originally occasioned by their mutual and separate lacks of awareness of the existence of a comprehensive, rational, coordinating system inherent in nature.\n\nOther passages in \"Synergetics\" that outline the subject are its introduction (The Wellspring of Reality) and the section on Nature's Coordination (410.01). The chapter on Operational Mathematics (801.00-842.07) provides an easy to follow, easy to build introduction to some of Fuller's geometrical modeling techniques. So this chapter can help a new reader become familiar with Fuller's approach, style and geometry. One of Fuller's clearest expositions on \"the geometry of thinking\" occurs in the two part essay \"Omnidirectional Halo\" which appears in his book \"No More Secondhand God\".\n\nAmy Edmondson describes synergetics \"in the broadest terms, as the study of spatial complexity, and as such is an inherently comprehensive discipline.\" In her PhD study, Cheryl Clark synthesizes the scope of synergetics as \"the study of how nature works, of the patterns inherent in nature, the geometry of environmental forces that impact on humanity.\"\n\nHere's an abridged list of some of the discoveries Fuller claims for \"Synergetics\" again quoting directly:\n\n\nSeveral authors have tried to characterize the importance of synergetics. Amy Edmonson asserts that \"Experience with synergetics encourages a new way of approaching and solving problems. Its emphasis on visual and spatial phenomena combined with Fuller's holistic approach fosters the kind of lateral thinking which so often leads to creative breakthroughs.\". Cheryl Clark points out that \"In his thousands of lectures, Fuller urged his audiences to study synergetics, saying 'I am confident that humanity's survival depends on all of our willingness to comprehend feelingly the way nature works.'\"\n\nA chief hallmark of this system of mensuration was its unit of volume: a tetrahedron defined by four closest-packed unit-radius spheres. This tetrahedron anchored a set of concentrically arranged polyhedra proportioned in a canonical manner and inter-connected by a twisting-contracting, inside-outing dynamic named the Jitterbug Transformation.\n\nCorresponding to Fuller's use of a regular tetrahedron as his unit of volume was his replacing the cube as his model of 3rd powering.(Fig. 990.01) The relative size of a shape was indexed by its \"frequency,\" a term he deliberately chose for its resonance with scientific meanings. \"Size and time are synonymous. Frequency and size are the same phenomenon.\" (528.00) Shapes not having any size, because purely conceptual in the Platonic sense, were \"prefrequency\" or \"subfrequency\" in contrast.\nPrime means sizeless, timeless, subfrequency. Prime is prehierarchical. Prime is prefrequency. Prime is generalized, a metaphysical conceptualization experience, not a special case... (1071.10)\nGeneralized principles (scientific laws), although communicated energetically, did not inhere in the \"special case\" episodes, were considered \"metaphysical\" in that sense.\nAn energy event is always special case. Whenever we have experienced energy, we have special case. The physicist's first definition of physical is that it is an experience that is extracorporeally, remotely, instrumentally apprehensible. Metaphysical includes all the experiences that are excluded by the definition of physical. Metaphysical is always generalized principle.(1075.11)\nTetrahedral mensuration also involved substituting what Fuller called the \"isotropic vector matrix\" (IVM) for the standard XYZ coordinate system, as his principal conceptual backdrop for special case physicality:\nThe synergetics coordinate system -- in contradistinction to the XYZ coordinate system -- is linearly referenced to the unit-vector-length edges of the regular tetrahedron, each of whose six unit vector edges occur in the isotropic vector matrix as the diagonals of the cube's six faces. (986.203)\nThe IVM scaffolding or skeletal framework was defined by cubic closest packed spheres (CCP), alternatively known as the FCC or face-centered cubic lattice, or as the octet truss in architecture (on which Fuller held a patent). The space-filling complementary tetrahedra and octahedra characterizing this matrix had prefrequency volumes 1 and 4 respectively (see above).\n\nA third consequence of switching to tetrahedral mensuration was Fuller's review of the standard \"dimension\" concept. Whereas \"height, width and depth\" have been promulgated as three distinct dimensions within the Euclidean context, each with its own independence, Fuller considered the tetrahedron a minimal starting point for spatial cognition. His use of \"4D\" was in many passages close to synonymous with the ordinary meaning of \"3D,\" with the dimensions of physicality (time, mass) considered additional dimensions.\nGeometers and \"schooled\" people speak of length, breadth, and height as constituting a hierarchy of three independent dimensional states -- \"one-dimensional,\" \"two-dimensional,\" and \"three-dimensional\" -- which can be conjoined like building blocks. But length, breadth, and height simply do not exist independently of one another nor independently of all the inherent characteristics of all systems and of all systems' inherent complex of interrelationships with Scenario Universe... All conceptual consideration is inherently four-dimensional. Thus the primitive is a priori four-dimensional, always based on the four planes of reference of the tetrahedron. There can never be less than four primitive dimensions. Any one of the stars or point-to-able \"points\" is a system-ultratunable, tunable, or infratunable but inherently four-dimensional. (527.702, 527.712)\nSynergetics did not aim to replace or invalidate pre-existing geometry or mathematics, it was designed to carve out a new foundation with a language that would serve to provide a new source of insights.\n\nFuller's geometric explorations provided an experiential basis for designing and refining a philosophical language. His overarching concern was the co-occurring relationship between tensile and compressive tendencies within an eternally regenerative Universe. \"Universe\" is a proper name he defined in terms of \"partially overlapping scenarios\" while avoiding any static picture or model of same. His Universe was \"non-simultaneously conceptual\":\n\nBecause of the fundamental nonsimultaneity of universal structuring, a single, simultaneous, static model of Universe is inherently both nonexistent and conceptually impossible as well as unnecessary. Ergo, Universe does not have a shape. Do not waste your time, as man has been doing for ages, trying to think of a unit shape \"outside of which there must be something,\" or \"within which, at center, there must be a smaller something.\" (307.04)\nU = MP described a first division of Universe into metaphysical and physical aspects, the former associated with invisibly cohesive tension, the latter with energy events, both associative as matter and disassociative as radiation. (162.00)\n\nSynergetics also distinguished between gravitational and precessional relationships among moving bodies, the latter referring to the vast majority of cosmic relationships, which are non-180-degree and do not involve bodies \"falling in\" to one another (130.00 533.01, 1009.21). \"Precession\" is a nuanced term in the synergetics vocabulary, relating to the behavior of gyroscopes, but also to side-effects. (326.13, 1009.92)\n\nFuller took an intuitive approach to his studies, often going into exhaustive empirical detail while at the same time seeking to cast his findings in their most general philosophical context.\n\nFor example, his sphere packing studies led him to generalize a formula for polyhedral numbers: 2 P F + 2, where F stands for \"frequency\" (the number of intervals between balls along an edge) and P for a product of low order primes (some integer). He then related the \"multiplicative 2\" and \"additive 2\" in this formula to the convex versus concave aspects of shapes, and to their polar spinnability respectively.\n\nThese same polyhedra, developed through sphere packing and related by tetrahedral mensuration, he then spun around their various poles to form great circle networks and corresponding triangular tiles on the surface of a sphere. He exhaustively cataloged the central and surface angles of these spherical triangles and their related chord factors.\n\nFuller was continually on the lookout for ways to connect the dots, often purely speculatively. As an example of \"dot connecting\" he sought to relate the 120 basic disequilibrium LCD triangles of the spherical icosahedron to the plane net of his A module.(915.11Fig. 913.01, Table 905.65)\n\nThe Jitterbug Transformation provided a unifying dynamic in this work, with much significance attached to the doubling and quadrupling of edges that occurred, when a cuboctahedron is collapsed through icosahedral, octahedral and tetrahedral stages, then inside-outed and re-expanded in a complementary fashion. The JT formed a bridge between 3,4-fold rotationally symmetric shapes, and the 5-fold family, such as a rhombic triacontahedron, which later he analyzed in terms of the T module, another tetrahedral wedge with the same volume as his A and B modules.\n\nHe modeled energy transfer between systems by means of the double-edged octahedron and its ability to turn into a spiral (tetrahelix). Energy lost to one system always reappeared somewhere else in his Universe. He modeled a threshold between associative and disassociative energy patterns with his T-to-E module transformation (\"E\" for \"Einstein\").(Fig 986.411A)\n\n\"Synergetics\" is in some ways a library of potential \"science cartoons\" (scenarios) described in prose and not heavily dependent upon mathematical notations. His demystification of a gyroscope's behavior in terms of a hammer thrower, pea shooter, and garden hose, is a good example of his commitment to using accessible metaphors. (Fig. 826.02A)\n\nHis modular dissection of a space-filling tetrahedron or MITE (minimum tetrahedron) into 2 A and 1 B module served as a basis for more speculations about energy, the former being more energy conservative, the latter more dissipative in his analysis.(986.422921.20, 921.30). His focus was reminiscent of later cellular automaton studies in that tessellating modules would affect their neighbors over successive time intervals.\n\n\"Synergetics\" informed Fuller's social analysis of the human condition. He identified \"ephemeralization\" as the trend towards accomplishing more with less physical resources, as a result of increasing comprehension of such \"generalized principles\" as E = Mc.\n\nHe remained concerned that humanity's conditioned reflexes were not keeping pace with its engineering potential, emphasizing the \"touch and go\" nature of our current predicament.\n\nFuller hoped the streamlining effects of a more 60-degree-based approach within natural philosophy would help bridge the gap between C.P. Snow's \"two cultures\" and result in a greater level of scientific literacy in the general population. (935.24)\n\nFuller hoped to gain traction for his ideas and nomenclature by dedicating \"Synergetics\" to H.S.M. Coxeter (with permission) and by citing page 71 of the latter's \"Regular Polytopes\" to suggest where his A & B modules (depicted above) might enter the literature (see Fig. 950.12). Dr. Arthur Loeb provided a prologue and an appendix to \"Synergetics\" discussing its overlap with crystallography, chemistry and virology.\n\nA major error, caught by Fuller himself, involved a misapplication of his Synergetics Constant in \"Synergetics 1\", which led to the mistaken belief he had discovered a radius 1 sphere of 5 tetravolumes. He provided a correction in \"Synergetics 2\" in the form of his T&E module thread. (986.206 - 986.212)\n\nSynergetics refers to synergy: either the concept of the output of a system not foreseen by the simple sum of the output of each system part, or simply — less used — another term for negative entropy — negentropy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "729219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=729219", "title": "The Book of Tea", "text": "The Book of Tea\n\nAddressed to a western audience, it was originally written in English and is one of the great English tea classics. Okakura had been taught at a young age to speak English and was proficient at communicating his thoughts to the Western mind. In his book, he discusses such topics as Zen and Taoism, but also the secular aspects of tea and Japanese life. The book emphasizes how Teaism taught the Japanese many things; most importantly, simplicity. Kakuzō argues that this tea-induced simplicity affected art and architecture, and he was a long-time student of the visual arts. In the book, Kakuzō states that Teaism, in itself, is one of the profound universal remedies that two parties could sit down to. Kakuzō went on to mention that tea has been the subject of many historical events, such as peace treaties and the like. He ends the book with a chapter on Tea Masters, and spends some time talking about Sen no Rikyū and his contribution to the Japanese tea ceremony.\n\nAccording to Tomonobu Imamichi, Heidegger's concept of \"Dasein\" in \"Sein und Zeit\" was inspired – although Heidegger remained silent on this – by Okakura Kakuzō’s concept of \"das-in-der-Welt-sein\" (being-in-the-worldness) expressed in \"The Book of Tea\" to describe Zhuangzi's philosophy, which Imamichi’s professor Ito Kichinosuke had offered to Heidegger in 1919, after having followed private lessons with him the year before: ‘Ito Kichinosuke, one of my teachers at university, studied in Germany in 1918 immediately after the First World War and hired Heidegger as a private tutor. Before moving back to Japan at the end of his studies, Professor Ito handed Heidegger a copy of Das Buch vom Tee, the German translation of Okakura Kakuzo’s The Book of Tea, as a token of his appreciation. That was in 1919. Sein und Zeit (Being and Time) was published in 1927, and made Heidegger famous. Mr. Ito was surprised and indignant that Heidegger used Zhuangzi’s concept without giving him credit. Years later in 1945, Professor Ito reminisced with me and, speaking in his Shonai dialect, said, ‘Heidegger did a lot for me, but I should’ve laid into him for stealing’. There are other indications that Heidegger was inspired by Eastern writings, but let’s leave this topic here. I have heard many stories of this kind from Professor Ito and checked their veracity. I recounted this story at a recep- tion held after a series of lectures I gave in 1968 at the University of Heidelberg at the invitation of Hans-Georg Gadamer. Japanese exchange students attended these lectures, and I explained that there were many other elements of classical Eastern thought in Heidegger’s philosophy and gave some examples. I must have said too much and may even have said that Heidegger was a plagiarist (Plagiator). Gadamer was Heidegger’s favorite student, and we ended up not speaking to each other for 4 or 5 years because he was so angry with me’ (Imamichi 2004, pp. 123–124). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1835471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1835471", "title": "Unity candle", "text": "Unity candle\n\nA unity candle is a candle used in a wedding ceremony to symbolize two people joining in marriage.\n\nThe lighting of a \"unity candle\" is a relatively new inclusion in wedding ceremonies, first appearing sometime in the second half of the 20th century, and most commonly found in American Christian weddings. The origins are unclear, though use of a unity candle in a 1981 episode of General Hospital may have helped to popularize the practice.\n\nUse of a unity candle generally symbolizes the joining of two individuals into the marriage bond, but additional allusions may invoked. The flame may be said to represent the passion in each individual's soul for their spouse, or it may compared to the Holy Spirit.\n\nTwo taper candles are initially lit and used by each member of the marrying couple. These tapers are then used to light a larger pillar candle in the center. Variations may include additional tapers used by parents to light the tapers that represent the individuals being married.\n\nWhen the practice is intended to symbolize simply the joining together of the bride and groom, the tapers may be blown out, to indicate that the two lives have been permanently merged, or they may remain lit beside the central candle, symbolizing that the now-married partners have not lost their individuality.\n\nWhile the use of unity candles has become widespread, it is prohibited in some churches. It is not part of the Catholic or Anglican wedding ceremonies, and many parishes do not allow its inclusion in the ceremony. While the US Conference of Catholic Bishops has not explicitly prohibited the use of the unity candle in the marriage rite, neither has it encouraged the practice. The Conference has noted that the policies of most dioceses do not prohibit this custom but many suggest that it be done at the reception since the Rite of Marriage already has abundant symbols of unity. The analysis of the Bishops regarding unity candles concludes by indicating that if the unity candle is permitted, the couple should light their individual candles from the paschal candle, the individual candles should not be extinguished and the unity candle should not be placed on the altar.\n"}
{"id": "55926106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55926106", "title": "Unstable (Magic: The Gathering)", "text": "Unstable (Magic: The Gathering)\n\nUnstable is an official parody expansion set to the collectible card game \"\" that was released on December 8, 2017. It is the third set of its kind, featuring silver borders, following in the tradition of 1998's \"\" and 2004's \"\".\n\n\"Unstable\" takes place on Bablovia, a steampunk-inspired plane. It features five main factions, one for each allied color pairing: The Order of the Widget (white-blue), the Agents of S.N.E.A.K. (blue-black), the League of Dastardly Doom (black-red), the Goblin Explosioneers (red-green) and the Crossbreed Labs (green-white).\n\n\"Unstable\" features interactions with \"Host\" creatures via the \"Augment\" mechanic. Certain creatures have the supertype \"Host\" and feature an effect that triggers when they enter the battlefield. Other creatures have the \"Augment\" ability and can only be played on top of a Host creature. When this is done, the Augment creature replaces the \"when this creature enters the battlefield\" trigger with a different trigger, making the Host's mechanic repeatable in some way. The art and card frames for Host and Augment creatures are designed such that the Augment creature can visually replace the front half of the Host creature, turning the composite creature into a hybrid.\n\nAnother major \"Unstable\" mechanic involves Sprockets and Contraptions. These are the culmination of a card first printed in \"Future Sight\", the future-shifted \"Steamflogger Boss.\" At the time of its 2007 Future Sight printing, Steamflogger Boss referenced \"Riggers\" and Contraptions, which were not referred to by any other cards or rules in all of \"Magic\". \"Unstable\" finally defined them. Contraptions are artifacts that reside in a special Contraption deck consisting of no more than 15 cards. \"Assembling\" one puts it on the battlefield. All Contraptions have a reverse face, instead of the standard \"Magic: the Gathering\" card back, depicting three sprockets. Any assembled Contraption must be assigned to one of these sprockets of its controller's choice at the time of assembly. At the beginning of a player's upkeep, that player may \"crank\" (activate) any Contraptions associated with one sprocket. The sprockets are selected sequence (third, first, second, third, and so on), such that the player cannot choose which sprocket will activate at will.\n\nSilver-bordered cards had never been legal in any constructed play formats before \"Unstable\". One week before its release, the EDH Rules Committee announced that all silver-bordered cards, except a short list of banned cards, would be officially legal for play in the Commander format for a limited time, until January 15, 2018.\n\nLike \"Unglued\" and \"Unhinged\", \"Unstable\" contains the five main basic lands of \"Magic\" with expanded, vertically oriented artwork. All five basic lands in \"Unstable\" were illustrated by John Avon and feature artwork which stretches all the way to the edge of the cards, with no borders at all. These lands command significantly higher prices on the secondary market than normal basic land cards from other expansions, although they perform the same function in the game.\n"}
{"id": "34216109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34216109", "title": "Urban pop culture", "text": "Urban pop culture\n\nUrban Pop Culture is the pop culture of cities and towns. It is both driven by and drives the popular culture of mainstream media. Urban pop culture tends to be more cosmopolitan and liberal than mainstream culture, but is not without its own complex mores, reflecting, for example, the parent societies' ambivalence to sexuality.\n\nThe impact on traditional popular media is more evident today than it has ever been. Since 1995, the number of nationally aired television commercials and popular sitcoms that use props, references, or slang from Inner cities continues to grow. Big screen movies are also other examples of how urban pop culture is impacting traditional pop culture. The hit movie Tropic Thunder is filled with references, images, and jokes that are common amongst the youth in Brooklyn, New York and Los Angeles California. Urban pop culture has also infiltrated the mainstream world of fashion, music, and even politics. During an interview former president George W. Bush was asked how he felt about a comment rapper Kanye West made about his administration's response efforts to Hurricane Katrina, and the former president included in his response that he was \"not a hater\"; a term that originated in New York City, and that is used mostly by rappers and youth.\n"}
{"id": "5835281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5835281", "title": "Wall unit", "text": "Wall unit\n\nA wall unit is a premanufactured furnishing that has become very popular the past 25 years. It is an assembly of several discrete components that are usually fixed to an internal wall of a room. Wall unit fixtures range in style from contemporary to traditional in order to match the decor of the home or business establishment in which they are installed. The furnishings are generally customized per installation at request of the customer to ensure the best fit and integration.\n\nWall units are often made from oak, maple, yellow cedar, paduk wood, American and European beech, purple heart wood, alder and cherry. Some companies combine solid and wood veneers or use MDF or particle board to create wall units that normally have amendable shelves. But aside from using wood, metal and glass can also be employed in their manufacture. Wall units are convenient for builders in that they can be easily installed. This kind of furniture can be utilised as storage, provide a surface for food preparation or to house whitegoods in kitchens, as entertainment centres for television or audio equipment or have many other household or office uses.\n\n"}
{"id": "15827736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15827736", "title": "Women and religion", "text": "Women and religion\n\nThe study of women and religion typically examines the role of women within particular religious faiths, and religious doctrines relating to gender, gender roles, and particular women in religious history. Most religions elevate the status of men over women, have stricter sanctions against women, and require them to be submissive. While there has been progress towards equality, religions overall still lag the rest of society in addressing gender issues. There are fundamentalists within every religion who actively resist change. There is often a dualism within religion which exalts women on the one hand, while demanding more rigorous displays of devotion on the other. This leads some feminists to see religion as the last barrier for female emancipation.\n\nWomen in Buddhism is a topic that can be approached from varied perspectives including those of theology, history, anthropology and feminism. Topical interests include the theological status of women, the treatment of women in Buddhist societies at home and in public, the history of women in Buddhism, and a comparison of the experiences of women across different forms of Buddhism. As in other religions, the experiences of Buddhist women have varied considerably.\n\nBuddhism can be considered to be revolutionary within the social and political realms of ancient India in regards to the role of women. During this time period, members of the highest Hindu caste, called Brahmins, did not allow women to have any involvement with religious rites or sacred texts of the Vedas. Women were further oppressed by the sacred texts of Hindu code, called the Laws of Manu, which stated that “By a girl, by a young woman, or even an aged one, nothing must be done independently, even in her own house. In childhood a female must be subject to her own father, in youth to her husband, when her lord is dead to her sons; a woman must never be independent” (V, 147-46, 155). Buddhism can be attributed as revolutionary due to the fact that Gautama Buddha admitted women into the monastic order, during a time when monastic communities were dominated by males in India.\n\nAdditionally, one of the main schools of tradition that originated from the early development of Buddhism, called Theravāda Buddhism, expresses the assumption that “all men and women, regardless of their caste, origins, or status, have equal spiritual worth.” Because Buddhism can be described as a religious and philosophical ideology that does not have an explicit “Creator” there is no implied “sacredness” in relation to one’s human form, which means that the practice itself is not bound to the ideas of gender, reproduction, and sexuality.\n\nHowever, it is argued that Buddhist traditions still have underlying issues pertaining to gender roles. While Buddhist ideologies may be considered a revolutionary step forward in the status of women, many still consider the tradition to be subject to the social and political context of undermining gender issues during its upbringing, and even up to this day. The progression of gender issues, especially between gender and authority, can be seen during the time period of Hinayana Buddhism, when the Buddhist order underwent major reforms of splitting into about 20 different schools. During this time Buddhist narratives and beliefs arose limiting the status of women’s roles within the Buddhist communities, asserting that women could not reach enlightenment, or Buddhahood. This also meant that women would not attain positions of leadership because of the fact that they could not reach enlightenment, unless they “gain good karma and are reborn as men beforehand.”\n\nAlternatively, Khandro Rinpoche, a female lama in Tibetan Buddhism, shows a more optimistic view in regards to women in Buddhism:When there is a talk about women and Buddhism, I have noticed that people often regard the topic as something new and different. They believe that women in Buddhism has become an important topic because we live in modern times and so many women are practicing the Dharma now. However, this is not the case. The female sangha has been here for centuries. We are not bringing something new into a 2,500-year-old tradition. The roots are there, and we are simply re-energizing them.In a YouTube interview on why there are so few female teachers in the Buddhist communities, Rinpoche goes on to say that: It is because of a lack of education. It was a very patriarchal society back in the East. Wherever Buddhism grew, these societies were very patriarchal. It limits the opportunity women have to study and be independent – and you have study and be independent to manifest any kind of realization or understanding…fortunately, that seems to be changing. I really think that opportunities for education have now really increased for women – there becoming very competitive and learned, and things are going to change. Rinpoche states that while the underlying nature of the patriarchal system that still exists today creates more obstacles and limitations for women in Buddhism, she believes that there is a changing dynamic and optimistic future for women within the Buddhist community.\n\nSome Christians believe Christianity has set a mold for women to adhere to and is one that limits a woman’s freedom in the church. According to the Christian Bible, wives are expected to be submissive in many ways. They are asked not only to be submissive to their husbands, but to the church, their community, and God. \"At the head of every household is a man; at the head of a man is Christ; and the head of every women is a man; and the head of Christ is God.\" Wives are seen as second in the family household, only to that of their husbands. This suggests that men are first hand in Christianity and adds to issue of equal rights for women in the religion.\n\nAs according to scripture in Genesis, “the Lord God said, it is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet (fit or suitable) for him. The passage suggests that women are to play a supportive role to men and is supported in further passages from Christian Scripture. For example, in Colossians and Peter, the specific passages call for women to submit to their husbands and to stay silent in their shadow. Lastly, in terms of how women are suppressed by scripture, the specific passage in Titus calls for a woman to not teach or preach in public assembly for that would constitute authority of a man.\n\nLeadership roles in the organized churches and sects of Christianity are often restricted to males. In the Roman Catholic and also in Eastern Orthodox Churches and Oriental Orthodox Churches, only men may serve as priests or deacons; only males serve in senior leadership positions such as pope, patriarch, and bishop. Women may serve as abbesses.\n\nAlthough Christianity professes equality for all and says women and men were created equal, as shown throughout history women have been subject to the patriarchy that is embedded in the religion. “In the midst of the Greek, Roman, and Jewish cultures, which viewed women almost on the level of possessions, Jesus showed love and respect for women.” As expressed in the preceding quote, Jesus Christ professed equality and Christianity does express and celebrate equality. It is the patriarchy of society that has influenced Christianity and put men in positions of power. Though women have played a vital role in the church, as expressed by the Acts and many others, none have ever been allowed a position of leadership. Women such as Mary Magdalene, who played a major role in support Jesus’ and the ministry, show just how important women have been to Christianity.\n\nApostle Paul is a great example in showing this as he worked, “side by side with them for the furtherance of the gospel,” but never appointed any women in roles of leadership or power. Women in Christianity can be roughly summarized in the following quote: “Although women are spiritual equals with men and the ministry of women is essential to the body of Christ, women are excluded from leadership over men in the church.”\n\nHowever some Christians disagree with the idea that women should not have leadership positions, popular female preachers like Joyce Meyer, Paula White and Kathryn Kuhlman have had or have leadership roles in Church. It is mentioned in the Old Testament that women such as Deborah and Huldah were Prophets. In the New Testament Philip was said to have four daughters who prophesied.\n\nIn Hinduism, women are displayed as equal or even greater than men, for instance Kali Ma (Dark Mother) \"is the Hindu goddess of creation, preservation, and goddess of destruction\" her power symbolized the origin of all creation's life, as well as the end of life. Due to her control over life and death, Kali was seen as a goddess that should be loved as well as feared. Another important female figure is Shakti, a goddess that is embodied as the energy of the universe, \"often manifested to destroy demonic forces and restore balance\". Because Shakti is a universal force, she is embodied by all the gods in Hinduism and is worshiped as the \"mother goddess\".\n\nWhile Hinduism illustrates women as important figures that play an important role in understanding how the world works, women in Hindu society have been overlooked and their importance has been diminished throughout time due to outside forces that cause \"girls being made to feel lesser and not as important as boys\". These changes created a shift in power between men and women to the point where, \"a Hindu woman was preordained to be ruled by the male and was subjected to all kinds of atrocities for these were the standards of being an ideal Hindu woman\". Due to this change in perception, Hinduism is now seen as a Partiarchal religion that teaches sexism and inequality, when in actuality it is the people in Hindu society's perception that is sexist rather than the religion itself. However, this view of women being treated as property is slowing beginning to change, as Hindu societies are pushing for more equality and a change in the perception of women.\n\nIslam is a monotheistic religion that was founded in the early seventh century by the Islamic prophet, Muhammad. The notion of a good life for a Muslim person is defined in Islam’s sacred text, the Quran, as well as the Hadith which are the direct teachings of Muhammad. Although these sources covered a lot, there were still some situations that were left to interpretation. Thus, Islamic scholars formed a consensus around a set of secondary sources, the most notable being the ijma, qiyas, ijtihad and fatwas. It is important to recognize that the Quran is not a static source with a fixed meaning but a dynamic, versatile one.\n\nAlthough the Quran emphasizes the equal treatment of all Islamic people, throughout history, the patriarchy has continued to oppress Muslim women since the religion was founded. Although the introduction of Islamic principles was a step in the right direction, men kept the dominant position and women were required to be obedient to their husbands. This was less due to the teachings of the religion but more so due to the mindsets of the era. Before Islam became so widespread, people of the Middle East lived in households in which women were seen as the property of their husbands and were only meant to perform household tasks, ultimately dehumanizing them.\n\nThe emergence of Islam also gave rise to the humanization of women and the recognition of women’s rights by placing men and women as equals in their ability to carry out the wishes of Allah and the teachings of Muhammad. Although the introduction of Islamic principles was a step in the right direction, men kept the dominant position and women were required to be obedient to their husbands. This was mostly due to the cultural norms and was seen a way of life by the local community. The three main things which sharia law introduced were a women’s rights to marriage, inheritance, and divorce. It also limited the oppressive privileges of men by placing restrictions on polygamy by limiting marriage to a maximum of four women only if they are taken care of equally and properly.\n\nMuslims must observe the five pillars of Islam: praying five times a day, fasting during the month of Ramadan, making a pilgrimage to Mecca, donating to charity, accepting Allah as the only God and Muhammad as the messenger of God. Women have restrictions on public prayer and are either banned from mosques or have separate private spaces. On top of that they cannot pray during menstruation and if they are pregnant or in labor during the month of Ramadan, they must make up these fasting days. These restrictions and the negative impact of veiling which was otherwise seen as a respectable act yielded in the seclusion of woman from mosques and other Islamic educational centers. This drove a wedge in their advancement and forced them into a dependency of the opposite gender.\n\nDue to their isolation, it became the responsibility of the ummah, or Muslim community, to pass down the customs and traditions that mold a Muslim women's life. This guidance, sharia, and Islamic scripture outlined the structure for her education, employment opportunities, rights to inheritance, dress, public appearance, domestic 'duties', age of marriage, freedom to consent to marriage, marriage contract, mahr, permissibility of birth control, divorce, sex outside or before marriage, her ability to receive justice in case of sex crimes, property rights independent of her husband, and when \"salat\" (prayers) are mandatory for her.\n\nThe role of women in Judaism is determined by the Hebrew Bible, the Oral Law (the corpus of rabbinic literature), by custom, and by non-religious cultural factors. Although the Hebrew Bible and rabbinic literature mention various female role models, religious law treats women differently in various circumstances. Throughout historical Jewish texts, all people were seen equal under the highest level: God. The Hebrew bible states that “man” was made both “male and female”, a dual gender, but was later separated into male and female. In Judaism, God has never been exclusively viewed as male or masculine, but rather, he obtains both masculine and feminine qualities. Scriptures and ancient texts refer God as “him” because there is no neutral gender in the Hebrew language. \nBecause it is an essential building block of marriage, family is strongly emphasized in Judaism. Gender has a bearing on familial lines: in traditional Judaism, Jewishness is passed down through the mother, although the father's name is used to describe sons and daughters in the Torah, e.g., \"Dinah, daughter of Jacob\". Responsibilities were not taken lightly with regards to the family. The wife and mother in Hewbrew, Jewish language, is called \"akeret habayit,\" which in literal English translation means \"mainstay.\" A Jewish household is expected to live up to the Torah, in which the aketet habayit, or woman of the house, tends to the family and household duties.\n\nWomen were highly regarded within the Jewish community because they were capable of a great degree of \"binah\" (institution, understanding, intelligence). The term, “women of valor,” describes the ideal characteristics of a Jewish woman. Traditionally, she is one who devoted all her energies towards the “physical and spiritual well-being of her family” because she had the capabilities to do so. Her continuous devotion allowed her husband and children to flourish; her personal reward being their success. However, that role has reshaped itself throughout time. The “women of valor’s” effect expanded beyond the household and into the community. Volunteer work allowed women to acquire a sense of self-hood while sharpening leadership and organizational skills. While it may seem that women only had influence in smaller communities, Jewish women eventually established enough authority to emerge as public figures. In 1972, Sally Priesand, became the first female rabbi that was publicly ordained. They were able to lead worship services and read from the Torah on par with men, if not even better because they had an alternative perspective of the text.\n\nThe role of women in traditional Judaism has been grossly misrepresented and misunderstood. The position of women is not nearly as lowly as many modern people think; in fact, the position of women in halakhah (Jewish Law) that dates back to the biblical period is in many ways better than the position of women under American civil law as recently as a century ago.\n\nAccording to Sikhism, men and women are two sides of the same coin of the human. There is a system of inter-relation and inter-dependence where man takes birth from woman, and woman is born of a man's seed. According to Sikhism a man can not feel secure and complete during his life without a woman, and a man's success is related to the love and support of the woman who shares her life with him, and vice versa. The founder of Sikhism, Guru Nanak, reportedly said in 1499 that \"It is a woman who keeps the race going\" and that we should not \"consider woman cursed and condemned, when from woman are born leaders and rulers.\"\n\nSikhs have had an obligation to treat women as equals, and gender discrimination in Sikh society has not been allowed. However, gender equality has been difficult to achieve.\n\nAt the time of the Gurus women were considered very low in society. Both Hindus and Muslims regarded women as inferior and a man's property. Women were treated as mere property whose only value was as a servant or for entertainment. They were considered seducers and distractions from man's spiritual path. Men were allowed polygamy but widows were not allowed to remarry but encouraged to burn themselves on their husbands funeral pyre (sati). Child marriage and female infanticide were prevalent and purdah (veils) were popular for women. Women were also not allowed to inherit any property. Many Hindu women were captured and sold as slaves in foreign Islamic countries.\n\n\"Further information:Sexual differences in Jainism\" \n\nJainism is an ancient Indian religion founded around the sixth century BCE. Jainism is inclusive of women, as one of the cornerstones of the religion is the “fourfold sangha” which describes the Jainism community, which is made up of monks, nuns, laymen and laywomen.\n\n\nPosition of Women in Buddhism: Spiritual and Cultural Activities\n\n"}
{"id": "33703379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33703379", "title": "World Amazigh Congress", "text": "World Amazigh Congress\n\nThe World Amazigh Congress (Berber: ⴰⴳⵔⴰⵡ ⴰⵎⴰⴹⵍⴰⵏ ⴰⵎⴰⵣⵉⵖ \"Agraw Amaḍlan Amaziɣ\", ) is an international organization which aims to protect and promote awareness of the Berber people's identity and culture, across North Africa.\n\nIn October 2011, Fathi Ben Khalifa was elected president of the Congress, replacing Belkacem Lounes.\n\nIn July 2015, Kamira nayt Saïd was elected as a new president for the next 3 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "58376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58376", "title": "École Polytechnique massacre", "text": "École Polytechnique massacre\n\nThe École Polytechnique massacre, also known as the Montreal massacre, was a mass shooting at the École Polytechnique in Montreal, Quebec, Canada that occurred on December 6, 1989. Twenty-five-year-old Marc Lépine, armed with a rifle and a hunting knife, shot 28 people, killing 14 women, before committing suicide. He began his attack by entering a classroom at the university, where he separated the male and female students. After claiming that he was \"fighting feminism\" and calling the women \"a bunch of feminists,\" he shot all nine women in the room, killing six. He then moved through corridors, the cafeteria, and another classroom, specifically targeting women to shoot. Overall, he killed fourteen women and injured ten other women and four men in just under 20 minutes before turning the gun on himself. His suicide note claimed political motives and blamed feminists for ruining his life. The note included a list of 19 Quebec women whom Lépine considered to be feminists and apparently wished to kill. It is the deadliest mass shooting in Canadian history.\n\nSince the attack, Canadians have debated various interpretations of the events, their significance, and Lépine's motives. Many feminist groups and public officials have characterized the massacre as an anti-feminist attack that is representative of wider societal violence against women. Consequently, the anniversary of the massacre has since been commemorated as the National Day of Remembrance and Action on Violence Against Women. Other interpretations emphasize Lépine's abuse as a child or suggest that the massacre was simply the isolated act of a madman, unrelated to larger social issues. Still other commentators have blamed violence in the media and increasing poverty, isolation, and alienation in society, particularly in immigrant communities.\n\nThe incident led to more stringent gun control laws in Canada. It also introduced changes in the tactical response of police to shootings, changes which were later credited with minimizing casualties at the 2006 Dawson College shootings.\n\nSometime after 4 p.m. on December 6, 1989, Marc Lépine arrived at the building housing the École Polytechnique, an engineering school affiliated with the Université de Montréal, armed with a semi-automatic rifle and a hunting knife. He had purchased a rifle on November 21, 1989, in a Checkmate Sports store in Montreal, telling the clerk that he was going to use it to hunt small game. Lépine was familiar with the layout of the building since he had been in and around the École Polytechnique at least seven times in the weeks leading up to the event.\n\nLépine sat for a time in the office of the registrar on the second floor. He was seen rummaging through a plastic bag and did not speak to anyone, even when a staff member asked if she could help him. He left the office and was subsequently seen in other parts of the building before entering a second-floor mechanical engineering class of about sixty students at about 5:10 p.m. After approaching the student giving a presentation, he asked everyone to stop everything and ordered the women and men to opposite sides of the classroom. No one moved at first, believing it to be a joke until he fired a shot into the ceiling.\n\nLépine then separated the nine women from the approximately fifty men and ordered the men to leave. Speaking in French, he asked the remaining women whether they knew why they were there, and when one student replied \"no,\" he answered: \"I am fighting feminism.\" One of the students, Nathalie Provost, said, \"Look, we are just women studying engineering, not necessarily feminists ready to march on the streets to shout we are against men, just students intent on leading a normal life.\" Lépine responded, \"You're women, you're going to be engineers. You're all a bunch of feminists. I hate feminists.\" He then opened fire on the students from left to right, killing six, and wounding three others, including Provost. Before leaving the room, he wrote \"shit\" twice on a student project.\n\nLépine continued into the second-floor corridor and wounded three students before entering another room where he twice attempted to shoot a female student. When his weapon failed to fire, he entered the emergency staircase where he was seen reloading his gun. He returned to the room he had just left, but the students had locked the door; Lépine failed to unlock it with three shots fired into the door. Moving along the corridor, he shot at others, wounding one, before moving towards the financial services office where he shot and killed a woman through the window of the door she had just locked.\n\nHe next went down to the first-floor cafeteria, in which about a hundred people were gathered. The crowd scattered after he shot a woman standing near the kitchens and wounded another student. Entering an unlocked storage area at the end of the cafeteria, Lépine shot and killed two more women hiding there. He told a male and female student to come out from under a table; they complied and were not shot.\n\nLépine then walked up an escalator to the third floor where he shot and wounded one female and two male students in the corridor. He entered another classroom and told the three students giving a presentation to \"get out,\" shooting and wounding Maryse Leclair, who was standing on the low platform at the front of the classroom. He fired on students in the front row and then killed two women who were trying to escape the room, while other students dived under their desks. Lépine moved towards some of the female students, wounding three of them and killing another. He changed the magazine in his weapon and moved to the front of the class, shooting in all directions. At this point, the wounded Leclair asked for help; Lépine unsheathed his hunting knife and stabbed her three times, killing her. He took off his cap, wrapped his coat around his rifle, exclaimed, \"Ah shit,\" and then committed suicide by shooting himself in the head, twenty minutes after having begun his attack. About sixty unfired cartridges remained in the boxes he carried with him. He had killed fourteen women in total (twelve engineering students, one nursing student and one employee of the university) and injured fourteen other people, including four men.\n\nAfter briefing reporters outside, Montreal Police director of public relations Pierre Leclair entered the building and found his daughter Maryse's stabbed body.\n\nThe Quebec and Montreal governments declared three days of mourning. A joint funeral for nine of the women was held at Notre-Dame Basilica on December 11, 1989, and was attended by Governor General Jeanne Sauvé, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, Quebec premier Robert Bourassa, and Montreal mayor Jean Doré, along with thousands of other mourners.\n\nMarc Lépine's inside jacket pocket contained a suicide letter and two letters to friends, all dated the day of the massacre. Some details from the suicide letter were revealed by the police two days after the event, but the full text was not disclosed. The media brought an unsuccessful access to information case to compel the police to release the suicide letter. A year after the attacks, Lépine's three-page statement was leaked to journalist and feminist Francine Pelletier. It contained a list of nineteen Quebec women whom Lépine apparently wished to kill because he considered them feminists. The list included Pelletier herself, as well as a union leader, a politician, a TV personality, and six police officers who had come to Lépine's attention as they were on a volleyball team together. The letter (without the list of women) was subsequently published in the newspaper \"La Presse\", where Pelletier was a columnist at the time. Lépine wrote that he considered himself rational and that he blamed feminists for ruining his life. He outlined his reasons for the attack including his anger towards feminists for seeking social changes that \"retain the advantages of being women [...] while trying to grab those of the men.\" He also mentioned Denis Lortie, a Canadian Armed Forces corporal who killed three government employees and wounded thirteen others in an armed attack on the National Assembly of Quebec on May 7, 1984. The text of the original letter in French is available, as well as an English translation.\n\nIn addition, some suicides were later reported among students who had been present at the time of the massacre. At least two students left notes confirming that they committed suicide due to distress caused by the massacre.\n\nThe shooter, Marc Lépine, was born to a French-Canadian mother and an Algerian father and at birth he was named Gamil Gharbi. His father, a mutual funds salesman, did not consider women to be the equal of men. He was physically and verbally abusive to his wife and son, discouraging tenderness between mother and child. When Gamil was seven, his parents separated; his father ceased contact with his children soon after. His mother returned to nursing to support the family, and because of her schedule, the children lived with other families during the week. At 14, Gamil changed his name to \"Marc Lépine\", citing his hatred of his father as the reason for taking his mother's surname. Lépine attempted to join the Canadian Army during the winter of 1980–1981 but, according to his suicide letter, was rejected because he was \"anti-social\". The brief biography of Marc Lépine that police released the day after the killings described him as intelligent but troubled. He disliked feminists, career women and women in traditionally male occupations, such as the police force. He began a pre-university CEGEP (college) program in pure sciences in 1982 but switched to a three-year vocational program in electronics technology after his first year. He abandoned this program in his final semester without explanation. Lépine applied to the École Polytechnique in 1986 and in 1989 but lacked two CEGEP courses required for admission. He completed one of them in the winter of 1989.\n\nThe massacre profoundly shocked Canadians. Government and criminal justice officials feared that extensive public discussion about the massacre would cause pain to the families and lead to antifeminist violence. As a result, a public inquiry was not held, and Marc Lépine's suicide letter was not officially released. In addition, although an extensive police investigation into Marc Lépine and the killings took place, the resulting report was not made public, though a copy was used by the coroner as a source in her investigation. The media, academics, women's organizations, and family members of the victims protested the lack of a public inquiry and paucity of information released.\n\nThe gender of Marc Lépine's victims, as well as his oral statements during the massacre and suicide note, quickly led to the event's being seen as an antifeminist attack and as an example of the wider issue of violence against women. Feminist scholars consider Lépine's actions to spring from a widespread societal misogyny, including toleration of violence against women. Scholars have categorized it as a \"pseudo-community\" type of \"pseudo-commando\" murder-suicide, in which the perpetrator targets a specific group, often in a public place, and intends to die in \"a blaze of glory\". Criminologists regard the massacre as an example of a hate or bias crime against women, as the victims were selected solely because of their membership in the category of women, and those targeted were interchangeable with others from the same group. Lépine's mother later wondered if the attack was not directed at her, as some would have considered her a feminist since she was a single, working mother. Others, including television journalist Barbara Frum, pleaded that the massacre not be seen as an antifeminist attack or violence against women, and questioned why people insisted on \"diminishing\" the tragedy by \"suggesting that it was an act against just one group?\"\n\nAs predicted by Marc Lépine in his suicide letter, some saw the event as the isolated act of a madman. A psychiatrist interviewed Lépine's family and friends and examined his writings as part of the police investigation. He noted that Marc Lépine defined suicide as his primary motivation, and that he chose a specific suicide method, namely killing oneself after killing others (multiple homicide/suicide strategy), which is considered a sign of a serious personality disorder. Other psychiatrists emphasized the traumatic events of his childhood, suggesting that the blows he had received may have caused brain damage, or that Lépine was psychotic, having lost touch with reality as he tried to erase the memories of a brutal (yet largely absent) father while unconsciously identifying with a violent masculinity that dominated women. A different theory was that Lépine's childhood experiences of abuse led him to feel victimized as he faced losses and rejections in his later life. His mother wondered whether Lépine might have suffered from attachment disorder, due to the abuse and sense of abandonment he had experienced in his childhood.\n\nOthers expressed a broader analysis, framing Lépine's actions as the result of societal changes that had led to increased poverty, powerlessness, individual isolation, and polarization between men and women. Noting Lépine's interest in violent action films, some suggested that violence in the media and in society may have influenced his actions. Following a shooting at Dawson College on September 13, 2006, \"Globe and Mail\" columnist Jan Wong controversially suggested that Marc Lépine may have felt alienated from Quebec society as he was the child of an immigrant.\n\nThe injured and witnesses among university staff and students suffered a variety of physical, social, existential, financial, and psychological consequences, including post-traumatic stress disorder. A number of students committed suicide. In the suicide letters of at least two of them, the anguish they suffered following the massacre was cited as the reason for killing themselves. Nine years after the event, survivors reported still being affected by their experiences, though with time some of the effects had lessened.\n\nPolice response to the shootings was heavily criticized for the amount of time it gave Lépine to carry out the massacre. The first police officers to arrive at the scene established a perimeter around the building and waited before entering the building. During this period, several women were killed. Subsequent changes to emergency response protocols led to praise of emergency responders' handling of the Dawson College shooting in 2006 in which one woman was killed by a shooter. In that incident, coordination amongst emergency response agencies and prompt intervention were credited with minimizing the loss of life.\n\nThe massacre was a major spur for the Canadian gun control movement. Heidi Rathjen, a student who was in one of the classrooms Lépine did not enter during the shooting, organized the Coalition for Gun Control with Wendy Cukier. Suzanne Laplante-Edward and Jim Edward, the parents of one of the victims, were also deeply involved. Their activities, along with others, led to the passage of Bill C-68, or the Firearms Act, in 1995, ushering in stricter gun control regulations. These new regulations included requirements on the training of gun owners, screening of firearm applicants, rules concerning gun and ammunition storage and the registration of all firearms. Between 2009 and 2012, survivors of the massacre and their families publicly opposed legislative actions by Stephen Harper's Conservative government aimed at ending the requirement to register non-restricted firearms (commonly referred to as the \"long-gun registry\"). A bill was narrowly defeated in September 2010, but following their 2011 majority election win, the long-gun registry was abolished by the Harper government in April 2012. The Quebec government subsequently won a temporary injunction, preventing the destruction of the province's gun registry data, and ordering the continued registration of long guns in Quebec. In March 2015, The Supreme Court of Canada ruled against Quebec, clearing the way for the destruction of all registry data.\n\nThe Canadian women's movement sees the massacre as a symbol of violence against women. \"The death of those young women would not be in vain, we promised\", Canadian feminist Judy Rebick recalled. \"We would turn our mourning into organizing to put an end to male violence against women.\"\n\nIn response to the killings, a House of Commons Sub-Committee on the Status of Women was created. It released a report \"The War against Women\" in June 1991, which was not endorsed by the full standing committee. However, following its recommendations, the federal government established the Canadian Panel on Violence Against Women in August 1991. The panel issued a final report, \"Changing the Landscape: Ending Violence – Achieving Equality\", in June 1993. The panel proposed a two-pronged \"National Action Plan\" consisting of an \"Equality Action Plan\" and a \"Zero Tolerance Policy\" designed to increase women's equality and reduce violence against women through government policy. Critics of the panel said that the plan failed to provide a workable timeline and strategy for implementation and that with over four hundred recommendations, the final report failed to make an impact.\n\nMale survivors of the massacre have been subjected to criticism for not intervening to stop Lépine. In an interview immediately after the event, a reporter asked one of the men why they \"abandoned\" the women when it was clear that Lépine's targets were women. René Jalbert, the sergeant-at-arms who persuaded Denis Lortie to surrender during his 1984 attack, said that someone should have intervened at least to distract Lépine, but acknowledged that \"ordinary citizens cannot be expected to react heroically in the midst of terror.\" Right wing newspaper columnist Mark Steyn suggested that male inaction during the massacre illustrated a \"culture of passivity\" prevalent among men in Canada, which enabled Lépine's shooting spree: \"Yet the defining image of contemporary Canadian maleness is not M Lepine/Gharbi but the professors and the men in that classroom, who, ordered to leave by the lone gunman, meekly did so, and abandoned their female classmates to their fate—an act of abdication that would have been unthinkable in almost any other culture throughout human history.\"\n\nMale students and staff expressed feelings of remorse for not having attempted to prevent the shootings, but Nathalie Provost, one of the survivors, said that she felt that nothing could have been done to prevent the tragedy, and that her fellow students should not feel guilty.\n\nThe feminist movement is periodically criticized for appropriating the massacre as a symbol of male violence against women. For example, Charles Rackoff, a University of Toronto computer science professor, compared the Ku Klux Klan with those organizing vigils marking the event, writing that \"[t]he point is to use the death of these people as an excuse to promote the feminist/extreme left-wing agenda,\" and adding that it is \"no more justified\" than the KKK using the \"murder of a white person by a black person as an excuse to promote their agenda.\" Other critics say that Lépine was a \"lone gunman\" who does not represent men, and that violence against women is neither condoned nor encouraged officially or unofficially in western culture. In this perspective, feminist memorializing is considered socially divisive on the basis of gender and therefore harmful by bestowing guilt on all men, irrespective of individual propensity to violence against women. Some men's rights and anti-feminist commentators state that feminism has provoked violence against women, and without condoning the shootings, view the massacre as an extreme expression of men's frustrations. A few anti-feminists view Lépine as a hero, and glorify his actions.\n\nSince 1991, the anniversary of the massacre has been designated the National Day of Remembrance and Action on Violence Against Women, intended as a call to action against discrimination against women. A White Ribbon Campaign was launched in 1991 by a group of men in London, Ontario, in the wake of the massacre, for the purpose of raising awareness about the prevalence of male violence against women, with the ribbon symbolizing \"the idea of men giving up their arms.\" Commemorative demonstrations are held across the country each year on December 6 in memory of the slain women and numerous memorials have been built.\n\nThe Place du 6-Décembre-1989 in the Côte-des-Neiges/Notre-Dame-de-Grâce borough of Montreal was created as a memorial to the victims of the massacre. Located at the corner of Decelles Avenue and Queen Mary Road, a short distance from the university, it includes the art installation \"Nef pour quatorze reines\" (\"Nave for Fourteen Queens\") by Rose-Marie Goulet. It is the site of annual commemorations on December 6.\n\nA memorial erected in Vancouver sparked controversy because it was dedicated to \"all women murdered by men\", which critics say implies all men are potential murderers. As a result, women involved in the project ironically received death threats and the Vancouver Park Board subsequently banned any future memorials that might \"antagonize\" other groups.\n\nThe event has also been commemorated through references in television, theatre, and popular music. A play about the shootings by Adam Kelly called \"The Anorak\" was named as one of the best plays of 2004 by the \"Montreal Gazette\". Colleen Murphy's play \"December Man\" was first staged in Calgary in 2007 The movie \"Polytechnique\", directed by Denis Villeneuve was released in 2009, and sparked controversy over the desirability of reliving the tragedy in a commercial film. Several songs have been written about the events, including \"This Memory\" by the folk duo the Wyrd Sisters, and \"6 December 1989\" by the Australian singer Judy Small.\n\nIn 2013, a new science building at John Abbott College was named in honour of Anne-Marie Edward, a victim of the massacre who attended the college before going on to university.\n\nFor the commemorative ceremony on the 25th anniversary of the massacre in 2014, fourteen searchlights representing the 14 victims of the massacre were installed on the summit of Mount Royal and turned skyward at the exact time when the attack had started 25 years earlier. Also in 2014, the Order of the White Rose was established, a $30,000 national scholarship for female engineering graduate students. The selection committee was made up of presidents, principals and deans of engineering from several prestigious Canadian universities and chaired by Michèle Thibodeau-DeGuire, the first female graduate of École Polytechnique.\n\n\n"}
