{"id": "34025356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34025356", "title": "2011 Crosstown Shootout brawl", "text": "2011 Crosstown Shootout brawl\n\nThe 2011 Crosstown Shootout brawl, nicknamed The Crosstown Punch-Out, was a bench-clearing brawl that took place at the end of the 2011 edition of the Crosstown Shootout college basketball game between the University of Cincinnati Bearcats and the Xavier University Musketeers. The game took place on December 10, 2011 at Xavier's home arena, the Cintas Center in Norwood.\n\nThe Crosstown Shootout has always been one of the more intense rivalries in college basketball, all the more so because Xavier and UC are only two miles () apart. There has always been a fair amount of trash talk between the two schools, and the 2011 game was no different. On December 8, UC guard Sean Kilpatrick told Andy Furman of WQRT that Xavier's All-American guard Tu Holloway probably wouldn't start for the Bearcats \"with the players that we have now.\"\n\nThe series had developed a history of bad blood in the years leading up to the 2011 Crosstown Shootout.<br>\nIn 2008, a total of \"six\" technicals were called in a 76-66 XU win. XU's Derrick Brown was ejected, and two freshman post players were involved in an altercation that included a heavy dose of foreshadowing: XU's Kenny Frease head-butted UC's Yancy Gates (both players received technicals). The altercation between Frease and Gates in 2008 set the tone for bad blood between the two, and may have motivated Gates to seek revenge in 2011.<br>\nIn 2009, multiple verbal exchanges resulting in UC clearing their bench as well as technicals called on XU's Jordan Crawford and UC's Rashad Bishop in XU's double overtime win.<br>\nIn 2010, Xavier's Tu Holloway received a technical foul for throwing an elbow late in UC's 66-46 win.<br>\n\nThe game was close at first, with eight ties and six lead changes in the first half. Xavier led 34-25 at halftime. The first sign of trouble occurred in the closing seconds of the first half, when Bearcat backup Octavius Ellis began exchanging some words with Xavier player Mark Lyons from the bench. Ellis jumped up from the bench to confront Lyons, and the two players had to be separated. Before the start of the second half, according to Xavier coach Chris Mack, both teams were warned that any further incident would result in technical fouls. The Musketeers started the second half on a 9-2 run and were never seriously threatened afterward. Ultimately, the Musketeers outscored the Bearcats 42-28 in the second half.\n\nWith 18.6 seconds remaining, Tu Holloway scored a layup to give the Musketeers the 76-53 lead. As Holloway walked to the other end of the court, he began shouting at the Bearcat bench, bringing UC's Ge'Lawn Guyn over to confront him, leading to an argument between both men. As Guyn reached for Holloway's throat, Xavier's Dezmine Wells intervened by pushing Guyn to the ground, causing UC's Yancy Gates to throw the ball at Holloway's head, and both benches to empty. In the ensuing fight, Gates punched Xavier's Kenny Frease in the face, opening up a large cut under Frease's left eye and knocking him to the ground. As Frease tried to crawl away from the crowd, UC's Cheikh Mbodj stomped on the back of his head. Ellis threw a punch at Lyons, causing him and Wells to throw several back, before coaches got in between them. This brought Gates over, who began shouting and throwing more punches at a Xavier backup, until Xavier assistant Aaron Williams and Lyons calmed him down. Referees Michael Roberts, Jeff Anderson, and Tony Crisp ended the game with 9.4 seconds remaining, giving Xavier the 76-53 win. UC's Gates and Mbodj, and Xavier's Wells were retroactively ejected from the game for fighting. Under NCAA rules, they were suspended for their next game, a sanction that cannot be appealed.\n\nImmediately following the incident, both sides were escorted to the tunnels at either end of the court so that they would enter their respective locker rooms. However, due to the chaos of the brawl, both teams entered through the tunnels opposite from where they were supposed to go. This would have resulted in another confrontation in the hallways beneath the Cintas Center stands as both teams would have had to cross each other in the narrow hallway leading to their locker rooms. To avoid this, the Xavier team was corralled into the south tunnel leading out of the main arena. Once the UC players were off the court and had filed through the north tunnel to their locker room, the Xavier players were brought back out and began celebrating with the remaining fans and students still in the stands. This however resulted in an incident between the Xavier players and the Cincinnati fans who began yelling obscenities at one another. Security again had to get involved to keep the two groups away from each other.\n\nUC coach Mick Cronin, angry at how his players behaved, ordered them to take off their jerseys in the locker room, and in some cases physically took them off. In his postgame comments, a visibly angry Cronin said that he told his players not to put them on again \"until they have a full understanding of where they go to school and what the university stands for and how lucky they are to even be there, let alone have a scholarship.\" He also hinted that several players could face suspensions, and possibly dismissal from the team, saying that he was going to review the tape with school president Gregory H. Williams and athletic director Whit Babcock \"and decide who's going to be on my team going forward.\" He also appeared to blame the referees for not taking control of the situation sooner (threats of technicals after the first-half incident notwithstanding), saying that Musketeer players were yelling at his bench for the whole game and even cursing at his coaches. Cronin said he tried to call a time out before the brawl broke out so the players could go to their respective benches, but couldn't get the officials' attention.\n\nIn the postgame interview, Holloway claimed the Bearcats had \"disrespected\" his teammates in the run-up to the game. He also said, \"We went out there and zipped them up at the end of the game.\" He also added that he and his teammates considered themselves \"gangsters, not thugs, but tough guys on the court.\" Lyons added, \"If somebody puts their hand in your face or tries to do something to you, where we're from you're gonna do something back.\"\n\nLater that night, Cronin spoke with ESPN's Andy Katz and reiterated that there would be additional suspensions coming. \"Nobody is going to walk on our side,\" he said. He also said this was the most embarrassing moment of his coaching career. Mack was somewhat more restrained in his remarks, saying he wasn't \"in a position to be a decision maker,\" but that his players needed to learn \"how to handle themselves and not let that happen again.\" \nEarlier, Mack had tweeted, \"If my players say they've been taught to be tough their whole life, they mean ON THE FLOOR. Nothing else is condoned.\"\n\nBoth schools' presidents issued statements condemning the brawl. UC's Williams strongly supported Cronin's postgame remarks, saying that the brawl was \"not what we expect of representatives of the University of Cincinnati\" and that school officials would \"act swiftly and firmly\" to ensure it never happened again. Xavier's Michael J. Graham called the brawl \"unsportsmanlike\" and apologized to Xavier's fans and \"the entire Cincinnati community.\"\n\nThe Big East Conference and Atlantic 10 Conference, the home conferences for UC and Xavier respectively at the time, also condemned the brawl and promised to hand down additional suspensions if they felt the schools haven't acted harshly enough.\n\nOn December 11, both schools announced suspensions for the players involved. UC suspended Gates, Mbodj and Ellis for six games each, and Guyn for one game. Cronin said that the four players would still have to earn their way back onto the team even after they serve out their suspensions. At the very least, Cronin said, they would have to sincerely apologize on camera and complete several other unspecified tasks. Xavier suspended Wells and Landen Amos for four games, Lyons for two and Holloway for one. Xavier athletic director Mike Bobinski also apologized for Holloway and Lyons' postgame remarks. Mack said that Holloway was suspended specifically for his postgame comments, and admitted that neither he nor Lyons should have been before the media.\n\nOn December 11, Mack, Holloway, Lyons and Xavier Athletic Director Mike Bobinski all apologized for what occurred. Mike Bobinski said, \"It was an embarrassment. It was a disappointment at every level. We take full responsibility for the role that we played in those events and are resolved to whatever is necessary to see to it that it never happens again.\" Tu Holloway also apologized for post game comments saying, \"Myself, I used the wrong choice of words. I represent Xavier University, my family and myself and I really apologize for what took place.\"\n\nOn December 12, an emotional Gates apologized for his actions, saying they were \"not what my family is about.\" Guyn, Ellis and Mbodj also apologized. On the same day, Hamilton County, Ohio prosecutor Joe Deters said he was considering filing criminal charges related to the brawl. Under Ohio law, Deters' office would handle the case if the charges rose to the level of felonies; Cincinnati city solicitor John Curp would prosecute if they are only misdemeanors. There is no known instance of criminal charges being filed as a result of a brawl at an NCAA game. Two days later, Deters announced he would not file charges. He also indicated that Gates and Frease had \"reached out to each other privately\", and that Frease was satisfied with a personal apology from Gates. On that same day XU athletic Director Mike Bobinski used head coach Chris Mack's radio show to again apologize and take questions from fans concerning the incident.\n\nOn December 18, prior to Xavier's game against Oral Roberts, Mack took the floor again to apologize for the incident that had occurred in the previous game. Mack said, \"We were all embarrassed by our behavior last weekend,\" and added, \"It's extremely disappointing and in no way was a representation of what our university and our basketball program is all about.\"\n\nPartly due to the incident, Xavier and UC officials decided to move the game to U.S. Bank Arena for at least the next two seasons and rename it the Crosstown Classic. Player and fan behavior was extensively reevaluated after the 2013 game, and was said to be a major factor in the decision to continue the series beyond the 2013–14 season. On May 12, 2014, the two schools announced a 10-year agreement to continue the series, alternating between campuses, and to revert the name of the series back to the Crosstown Shootout.\n\n"}
{"id": "48738535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48738535", "title": "23rd Ruler", "text": "23rd Ruler\n\n23rd Ruler was an \"ajaw\" of the Maya city of Tikal. He ruled c.635. Information about this \"ajaw\" and his successor 24th Ruler are next to nothing. K'inich Muwaan Jol II is the best candidate to be 23rd or 24th Ruler because he could be a father of 25th \"ajaw\" Nuun Ujol Chaak.\n"}
{"id": "486042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=486042", "title": "A-Mei", "text": "A-Mei\n\nKulilay Amit (, born 9 August 1972), better known by her stage name A-Mei, is a Taiwanese Puyuma singer-songwriter. In 1996, she made her singing debut and released her album, \"Sisters\". Her albums, \"Truth\" (2001), \"Amit\" (2009), and \"Faces of Paranoia\" (2014), each won her a Golden Melody Award for Best Mandarin Female Singer, and made her one of the singers who won the category the most times. Having sold more than 50 million records, she has achieved success in Mandarin-speaking world, and she is often referred to as the \"Queen of Mandopop\".\n\nA-Mei was born in a Puyuma family in Beinan, Taitung, Taiwan. In 1992, A-Mei moved to Taipei and took part in the Five Lights Star Singing Contest presented by the Taiwanese TV program Five Lights Awards; she made it all the way through to the finals but lost in the final round. In 1993, she attended the singing contest again and won. After that, she joined her cousin's band in 1995 and started to perform in pubs in Taipei. Her pub performance impressed Taiwanese music producer Chang Yu-sheng and Chang Hsiao-yen, the head of Taiwanese record label Forward Music of the time. In March 1996, she signed a recording deal with Forward Music.\n\nAfter she signed a recording deal with Forward Music, A-Mei's voice appears on Chang Yu-sheng's album, \"Red Passion\", which released in July 1996, and she sang a duet song titled \"Love Most Hurt Most\". In December 1996, she released her debut album, \"Sisters\". The title song featured A-Mei's mother and sisters as background vocals. In June 1997, A-Mei released her second studio album, \"Bad Boy\". The album earned her two Golden Melody Award nominations for Best Pop Vocal Album and Best Mandarin Female Singer. In January 1998, A-Mei embarked on her first solo concert tour, which visited Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore, and released a cover album in April 1998, which included many classic songs she planned to perform during the tour. In October 1998, she released her third studio album, \"Holding Hands\", in which she collaborated with Taiwanese singer-songwriter David Tao. The album earned her a Golden Melody Award nomination for Best Mandarin Female Singer.\n\nIn June 1999, A-Mei released her fourth studio album, \"Can I Hug You, Lover?\". The album earned her a Golden Melody Award nomination for Best Mandarin Female Singer. In July 1999, A-Mei embarked on her second concert tour, which visited Taiwan, mainland China, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Malaysia. In April 2000, she released a live album titled \"Time to Say Goodbye, A-Mei Hong Kong Live\". In May 2000, she sang the National Anthem of the Republic of China at the presidential inauguration ceremony of Chen Shui-bian, angering the government of the People's Republic of China which subsequently banned her from visiting mainland China for a few years. In December 2000, she released her fifth studio album, \"Regardless\", which is the last studio album released by Forward Music. The album earned her a Golden Melody Award nomination for Best Mandarin Female Singer.\n\nAfter she signed a recording deal with Warner Music Taiwan in June 2001, A-Mei released her sixth studio album, \"Truth\", in October. The album earned her two Golden Melody Award nominations for Best Pop Vocal Album and Best Mandarin Female Singer and won Best Mandarin Female Singer. In September 2001, Forward Music released a compilation album, \"Journey\", which includes all unreleased songs A-Mei recorded when she was signed under Forward Music. In August 2002, she released her seventh studio album, \"Fever\". The album earned her two Golden Melody Award nominations for Best Pop Vocal Album and Best Mandarin Female Singer. In the same month, she embarked on her third concert tour, A-Class Entertainment World Tour, which visited Taiwan, mainland China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Australia and United States. In the same year, she won a MTV Asia Award for Favorite Artist Taiwan.\n\nIn June 2003, she released her eighth studio album, \"Brave\". In September 2004, A-Mei released her ninth studio album, \"Maybe Tomorrow\". The album earned her a Golden Melody Award nomination for Best Mandarin Female Singer. The music video of the song, \"Love Is the Only Way\" was nominated Best Music Video of the Year. In 2005, she decided to take a short break and headed to Boston for a three-month language study through Boston University's Center for English Language & Orientation Programs. In late 2005, she returned to the stage and performed a medley at the Golden Horse Awards Ceremony. In February 2006, she released her tenth studio album, \"I Want Happiness?\". The album earned her a Golden Melody Award nomination for Best Mandarin Female Singer. In December 2006, she produced a musical, \"In Love with Carmen\", which was performed twice at Taipei Arena.\n\nIn April 2007, A-Mei signed a three-year recording deal with EMI Taiwan. In August 2007, she released her eleventh studio album, \"Star\". The album earned her three Golden Melody Award nominations for Best Mandarin Album, Best Mandarin Female Singer, and Song of the Year for \"A Moment\", which is a duet song with Taiwanese signer Jam Hsiao. In November 2007, she embarked on her fourth solo concert tour, Star Tour, which visited Taiwan, Mainland China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, Canada and United States. In March 2008, she embarked on an opera tour, \"Turandot\", in Japan.\n\nIn June 2009, A-Mei released her twelfth studio album, \"Amit\". The album won four Golden Melody Awards for Best Mandarin Album, Best Mandarin Female Singer, Best Album Producer, and Song of the Year for \"Bold for My Love\". The music video of \"Bold for My Love\" was nominated for Best Music Video of the Year. In November 2009, she embarked on her fifth concert tour, Amit First Tour, which visited Taiwan, Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Japan, Singapore, and Malaysia. In April 2011, she released her thirteenth studio album, \"R U Watching?\". The album earned her a Golden Melody Award nomination for Best Mandarin Female Singer. In September 2011, she embarked on her sixth concert tour, which visited Taiwan, mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, Malaysia, Australia, United Kingdom and United States. In July 2013, A-Mei became one of the judges of Chinese talent show, \"The Voice of China (season 2)\", along with Wang Feng, Na Ying, and Harlem Yu.\n\nAfter Universal Music Group acquired EMI, it became one of Universal's record labels. In June 2014, A-Mei signed a recording deal with EMI Taiwan, and was selected as the Chief Brand Officer for the record label. In July 2014, she released her fourteenth studio album, \"Faces of Paranoia\". The album won Golden Melody Award nominations for Best Mandarin Female Singer and Song of the Year with the song, \"Faces of Paranoia\" and won Best Mandarin Female Singer. In April 2015, she embarked her seventh concert tour, Utopia World Tour, which visited Taiwan, Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, Thailand, New Zealand, Australia, Canada and United States. In April 2015, she released her fifteenth studio album, \"Amit 2\". The album earned her five Golden Melody Award nominations for Best Mandarin Album, Best Vocal recording Album, Best Mandarin Female Singer, Best Album Producer, and Song of the Year with the song, \"Matriarchy\". In August 2015, she became one of the guest judges of the Chinese talent show, \"The Voice of China (season 4)\". In October 2016, she appeared on the Chinese variety show, \"Sound of My Dream\". In December 2016, she embarked the upgraded version of her seventh concert tour, Utopia 2.0 Carnival World Tour, as the celebration of her 20th anniversary of her singing career, which visited Taiwan, Mainland China, Macau, Singapore, Malaysia, Spain, Italy, United Kingdom, Canada and United States.\n\nOn January 15th, 2017, 66,000 tickets for 6 concerts of Utopia 2.0 Carnival World Tour held in Kaohsiung Dome sold out in 8 minutes, accordingly the organizer announced the addition of 2 shows, and 22,000 tickets of which sold out in 45 seconds, creating a new record of box office and boosted the development of Kaohsiung's tourism industry. On the last day of her 20th anniversary of debut (December 12), she released her nineteenth studio album, \"Story Thief\". On December 30, the final show of the Utopia World Tour was completed in Shanghai, China, setting a personal record of 104 concerts during one single tour, becoming the record holder of the most shows during one single tour among Chinese female singers and Taiwanese singers.\n\nOn May 16th, 2018, her album \"Story Thief\" earned 6 nominations, and won Best Music Video for \"Left Behind\", which directed by Lo Ging-zim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38904384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38904384", "title": "A. M. B. H. G. Abeyrathnebanda", "text": "A. M. B. H. G. Abeyrathnebanda\n\nA. M. B. H. G. Abeyrathnebanda (also spelled Abeyrathne Banda in some sources, , died 29 January 2009) was a soldier in the Sri Lanka Army. He was killed in action during a battle against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (commonly known as LTTE or Tamil Tigers) during the final stages of the Sri Lankan Civil War. He was posthumously awarded the Parama Weera Vibhushanaya, the country's highest military award for gallantry, and is the youngest recipient of the medal.\n\nAfter finishing basic military training, Abeyrathnebanda was assigned to the 21st battalion of the Sri Lanka Sinha Regiment. The 21st Sinha Regiment was part of the 584 Brigade of the 58 Division. He joined the unit on 1 January 2009. His citation and army records identify him as a recruit.\n\nMullaitivu, the main military and administrative base of the Tamil Tigers, fell to the army on 25 January 2009. The Tamil Tigers were then surrounded in the Puthukkudiyiruppu and Visuamadu areas. The 58 Division was advancing towards Visuamadu along the A35 highway, and the task of attacking Visuamadu from the west was given to the 21st Sinha Regiment.\n\nThe army launched their attack on the dawn of 29 January. A skirmish party was sent to capture a section of the Tamil Tiger defensive line in order to allow the rest of the regiment to launch the main offensive. Abeyrathnebanda was part of an eight-man team in this group. They reached the defensive line undetected under the cover of darkness, and assaulted a heavily fortified bunker, which was their assigned target. The resistance was heavy, and although they managed to capture the bunker, Abeyrathnebanda was injured in the process.\n\nHowever, they soon came under attack from positions in the Tamil Tigers' secondary defensive lines. As his team were pinned down and taking casualties, Abeyrathnebanda realised that their position would soon be overrun. He jumped out of the captured bunker and ran to the adjacent bunker along the connecting trench. Rushing amongst the attacking Tamil Tigers, he detonated a hand grenade, killing them and himself. This caused the Tamil Tigers' attack to be delayed long enough for the main force of the 21st Sinha Regiment to arrive and reinforce the skirmish party.\n\nThe battle ended in victory for the army. They captured the town of Visuamadu, as well as a number of military hardware from the Tamil Tigers.\n\nAbeyrathnebanda was promoted to the rank of Lance Corporal. Three years later, he was approved to receive the Parama Weera Vibhushanaya, Sri Lanka's highest military award for gallantry. President Mahinda Rajapaksa awarded Abeyrathnebanda's medal to his next-of-kin on 19 May 2012, which was the third anniversary of the end of the war. The citation for his medal commends him for fighting with \"courage and valour... disregarding risk to his own life and security\" despite sustaining injuries, and for sacrificing his life for the sake of his comrades and country. He was 19 years old at the time of his death, and is the youngest recipient of the Parama Weera Vibhushanaya.\n"}
{"id": "52544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52544", "title": "Aldo Moro", "text": "Aldo Moro\n\nAldo Romeo Luigi Moro (; 23 September 1916 – 9 May 1978) was an Italian statesman and a prominent member of the Christian Democracy party. He served as 38th Prime Minister of Italy, from 1963 to 1968, and then from 1974 to 1976. He was one of Italy's longest-serving post-war Prime Ministers, holding power for a combined total of more than six years. Due to his accommodation with the Communist leader Enrico Berlinguer, known as the Historic Compromise, Moro is widely considered one of the most prominent fathers of the Italian centre-left and one of the greatest and most popular leaders in the history of the Italian Republic.\n\nMoro was considered an intellectual and a patient mediator, especially in the internal life of his party. He was kidnapped on 16 March 1978 by the Red Brigades and killed after 55 days of captivity.\n\nAldo Moro was born in 1916 in Maglie, near Lecce, in the Apulia region, into a family from Ugento. His father was a school inspector, while his mother was a teacher. At age of 4, he moved with his family to Milan, but they soon moved back to Apulia, where he gained a classical high school degree at Archita lyceum in Taranto. Until 1939, he studied Law at the University of Bari, an institution where he was later to hold the post of ordinary professor (an equivalent to a tenured, full professor in the U.S. academic system) of Philosophy of Law and Colonial Policy (1941) and of Criminal Law (1942).\n\nIn 1935, he joined the Italian Catholic Federation of University Students (\"Federazione Universitaria Cattolica Italiana\", FUCI) of Bari. In 1939, under approval of Giovanni Battista Montini whom he had befriended, Moro was chosen as president of the association; he kept the post until 1942 when he was forced to fight in the World War II and was succeeded by Giulio Andreotti, who at the time was a law student from Rome. During his university years, Italy was ruled by the fascist regime of Benito Mussolini, and Moro took part in students competitions known as Lictors of Culture and Art organised by local fascist students' organisation, the University Fascist Groups. In 1943, along with other Catholic students, he founded the periodical \"La Rassegna\", which was published until 1945.\n\nIn July 1943, Moro contributed, along with Mario Ferrari Aggradi, Paolo Emilio Taviani, Guido Gonella, Giuseppe Capograssi, Ferruccio Pergolesi, Vittore Branca, Giorgio La Pira, Giuseppe Medici and Andreotti, to the creation of the Code of Camaldoli, a document planning of economic policy drawn up by members of the Italian Catholic forces. The Code served as inspiration and guideline for economic policy of the future Christian Democrats.\n\nIn 1945, he married Eleonora Chiavarelli (1915–2010), with whom he had four children: Maria Fida (born 1946), Agnese (1952), Anna, and Giovanni (1958). In 1963 Moro was transferred to La Sapienza University of Rome, as a professor of the Institutions of Law and Criminal Procedure.\n\nAldo Moro developed his interest in politics between 1943 and 1945. Initially, he seemed to be very interested in the social-democratic component of the Italian Socialist Party, but then he started cooperating with other Christian democratic politician in opposition to the fascist regime. During this years he met Alcide De Gasperi, Mario Scelba, Giovanni Gronchi and Amintore Fanfani. On 19 March 1943 the group reunited in the house of Giuseppe Spataro officially formed the Christian Democracy (DC). In the DC, he joined the left-wing faction led by Giuseppe Dossetti. In 1945 he became director of the magazine \"Studium\" and president of the Graduated Movement of the Catholic Action, a widespread Roman Catholic lay association.\n\nIn 1946, he was nominated vice-president of the Christian Democracy and elected member of the Constitutional Assembly, where he took part in the work to redact the Italian Constitution. In 1948 he was elected to the Italian Chamber of Deputies and nominated vice-minister of Foreign Affairs in the De Gasperi V Cabinet, from 23 May 1948 to 27 January 1950.\n\nAfter Dossetti's retirement in 1952, Moro founded, along with Antonio Segni, Emilio Colombo and Mariano Rumor, the Democratic Initiative faction, led by his old friend Fanfani.\n\nIn 1953, Moro was re-elected to the Chamber of Deputies, where he held the position of chairman of the DC parliamentary group. In 1955 was appointed as Minister of Grace and Justice in the cabinet led by Antonio Segni. In the following year he resulted among the most voted during the party's congress.\n\nIn May 1957 he was appointed Italian Minister of Education in the government of Adone Zoli and was confirmed by Fanfani in June 1958. He remained in office until February 1959, and during his tenure he introduced the study of civic education in schools.\n\nIn March 1959, after Fanfani's resignation as Prime Minister a new congress was called. The leaders of the Democratic Initiative faction reunited themselves in the convent of Dorothea of Caesarea, where they abandoned the leftist policies promoted by Fanfani and founded the \"Dorotei\" (Dorotheans) faction. In the party's National Council, Moro was elected Secretary of DC and was then confirmed in the October's congress held in Florence.\n\nAfter the government led by Fernando Tambroni in 1960, supported by the decisive votes of the neo-fascist Italian Social Movement, the renovated alliance between Moro as secretary and Fanfani as Prime Minister, led the subsequent National Congress, held in Naples in 1962 to approve with a large majority a line of collaboration with the Italian Socialist Party.\n\nThe 1963 general election was characterized by a lack of consensus for the DC; in fact the election fell after the launch of the centre-left formula by the Christian Democracy, a coalition based upon the alliance with the Socialists which had left its alignment with the Soviet Union. Some rightist electors abandoned the DC for the Italian Liberal Party, which was asking for a centre-right government and received votes also from the quarrelsome monarchist area. Moro refused the office of Prime Minister, preferring to provisionally maintain his more influent post at the head of the party: this fact confirmed the transformation of Italian political system into a particracy, the secretaries of the parties having become more powerful than the Parliament and the Government. However the Christian Democrats decided to replace incumbent Premier Amintore Fanfani with a provisional administration led by impartial Speaker of the House, Giovanni Leone; but, when the congress of the PSI in autumn authorized a full engagement of the party into the government, Leone resigned and Moro became the new Prime Minister.\n\nAldo Moro's government was unevenly supported by the DC, but also by the Italian Socialist Party, along with the minor Italian Republican Party and Italian Democratic Socialist Party. The coalition was also known as Organic Centre-left and was characterized by consociationalist and social corporatist tendencies.\n\nDuring Moro's premiership, a wide range of social reforms were carried out. The 1967 Bridge Law (\"Legge Ponte\") introduced urgent housing provisions as part of an envisioned reform of the entire sector, such as the introduction of minimum standards for housing and environment. A law promulgated on 14 December 1963 introduced an annual allowance for university students with income below a given level. Another law, promulgated on 10 March 1968, introduced voluntary public pre-elementary education for children aged three to five years. A law promulgated on 21 July 1965 introduced new pension provisions under the general scheme.\n\nMoreover, the legal minima was raised, all current pensions were revalued, seniority pensions were introduced (after 35 years of contributions workers could retire even before attaining pensionable age), and within the Social Security National Institute (INPS), a Social Fund (\"Fondo Sociale\") was established, ensuring to all members pensioners a basic uniform pension largely financed by state, known as the social pension (not related to the later social pension introduced in 1968). A law of 22 July 1966 extended pension insurance to small traders, while law of 22 July 1966 extended health insurance to retired traders, and a law of 29 May 1967 extended compulsory health insurance to retired farmers, tenant farmers, and sharecroppers, and extended health insurance to the unemployed in receipt of unemployment benefits.\n\nA law approved on 18 March 1968 introduced the principle of earnings-related pensions within the general scheme, with the pension formula to equal 1.626% of average earnings in the last 3 years of work multiplied by the number of contribution years (maximum pension: 65% of previous earnings) up to 40. A law of 5 November 1968 extended family allowances to the unemployed in receipt of unemployment benefits.\n\nOn 9 October 1963, during initial filling, a massive landslide caused a man-made megatsunami in the lake of the Vajont Dam in which 50 million cubic metres of water overtopped the dam in a wave high, leading to the complete destruction of several villages and towns, and 1,910 deaths. This event occurred when the company and the Italian government dismissed evidence and concealed reports describing the geological instability of Monte Toc on the southern side of the basin, and other early warning signs reported prior to the disaster. Estimates of the dead range from 1,900 to 2,500 people, and about 350 families lost all members.\n\nNumerous warnings, signs of danger, and negative appraisals had been disregarded, and the eventual attempt to safely control the landslide into the lake by lowering its level came when the landslide was almost imminent and was too late to prevent it. Although the dam itself remained almost intact, and two thirds of the water was retained behind it, the landslide was much larger than expected and the impact brought massive flooding and destruction to the Piave valley below.\n\nAfter the tragedy, Moro immediately dismissed the administrative officials who had supervised the construction of the dam.\n\nOn 25 June 1964, the government was beaten on the budget law for the Italian Ministry of Education concerning the financing of private education, and on the same day Moro resigned. The rightist Christian Democratic President of Italy, Antonio Segni, during the presidential consultations for the formation of a new cabinet, asked the socialist leader Pietro Nenni to exit from the government majority.\n\nOn 16 July, Segni sent the Carabinieri general, Giovanni De Lorenzo, to a meeting of representatives of the DC, to deliver a message that, according to some historians, it referred to the availability of the president, if the negotiations for the formation of a new center-left government had failed, to confer a subsequent mandate to the President of the Senate Cesare Merzagora, for the formation of a \"president's government\", composed by all the conservative forces in the Parliament. Moro, on the other hand, managed to put back a centre-left majority and, on 17 July, went to the Quirinale, with the acceptance of the assignment and the list of ministers of his second government. During the negotiations, Nenni had accepted the downsizing of his reform programs.\n\nOn 6 December 1964, President Segni resigned because of a thrombosis. In the presidential election of December, Moro and his majority tried to elected a leftist as President. On the twenty-first round of voting, the leader of Italian Democratic Socialist Party and former President of the Constituent Assembly Giuseppe Saragat was elected President with 646 votes out of 963. Saragat was the first left-wing politician to become President of the Republic.\n\nThe centre-left coalition, the first one for the Italian post-war political panorama, stayed in power until the 1968 general elections, despite the strong opposition of Segni and other rightist Christian Democrats. His third cabinet (1966–68) stayed in power for 833 days, a record for Italy's so-called \"First Republic\".\n\nIn the 1968 DC's congress, Moro yielded the Secretariat and passed to internal opposition. On 5 August 1969, he was appointed Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs by Prime Minister Mariano Rumor; he also held this office under the premierships of Emilio Colombo and Giulio Andreotti.\n\nDuring his ministry, he continued the pro-Arab policy of his predecessor Fanfani. Moro forced Yasser Arafat to promise not to carry out terrorist attacks in Italian territory, with a commitment that was named \"Moro pact\". The existence of this pact and its validity was confirmed by Bassam Abu Sharif, a long-time leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. Interviewed by the Italian newspaper \"Corriere della Sera\" he confirmed the existence of an agreement with the Popular Front thanks to whom, the PFLP could \"transport weapons and explosives, guaranteeing immunity from attacks in return\". Abu Sharif also declared:\" I personally followed the negotiations for the agreement. Aldo Moro was a great man, a true patriot, who wanted to save Italy some headaches, but I never met him. We discussed the details with an admiral and agents of the Italian secret service. The agreement was defined and since then we have always respected it; we were allowed to organize small transits, passages, purely Palestinian operations, without involving Italians. After the deal, every time I came to Rome, two cars were waiting for me to protect myself. For our part, we also guaranteed to avoid embarrassment to your country, that is attacks which started directly from the Italian soil.\" This version was confirmed also by former President of Italy Francesco Cossiga, who stated that Moro was the real and only creator of the pact.\n\nMoro also had to cope with the difficult situation which erupted following the coup of Muammar Gaddafi in Libya, a very important country for Italian interests not only for colonial ties, but also for its energy resources and the presence of about 20 thousand Italians.\n\nIn the 1971 presidential election, after the fall of Fanfani's candidacy, the DC left-wing proposed Moro as new President; however the moderate conservative Christian Democrats Giovanni Leone narrowly won the election.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1976, he re-gained the post of Prime Minister, and concluded the Osimo Treaty with Yugoslavia, defining the official partition of the Free Territory of Trieste. In 1976 he was elected President of the DC National Council.\n\nA law of 9 June 1975 increased the number of eligible occupational diseases and extended the duration of benefits. A law of 3 June 1975 introduced various benefit improvements for pensioners. The multiplying coefficient was raised to 2% and applied to average earnings of the best 3 years in the last 10 years of work, and automatic annual adjustment of minimum pensions to increase of the minimum contractual wage in the industrial sector (with a smaller adjustment made for pensions higher than the minima). A law of 27 December 1975 introduced \"ad hoc\" upgrading of cash benefits for certain diseases and of all flat-rate allowances. A law of 14 July 1967 extended family allowances to self-employed farmers, sharecroppers, and tenant farmers. On 29 April 1976, pension linkage to the industrial wage was extended to civil servants.\n\nMoro was considered a very tenacious mediator, particularly skilled in coordinating the different internal trends of DC.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1960s, Moro was one of the most convinced supporters of an alliance between the DC and the Italian Socialist Party, in order to widen the majority and integrate the socialists in the government system. In the 1963 party congress in Naples, he was able to convince the whole party directive of the strategy. The same happened in 1978, when he supported a \"national solidarity\" government with the backing of the Italian Communist Party.\n\nMoro's main aim was to widen the democratic base of the government: the cabinets should have been able to represent a bigger number of voters and parties. He thought of the DC as the fulcrum of a coalition system, on the principles of consociative democracy.\n\nMoro faced big challenges, especially, the necessity to conciliate the Christian and popular mission of the \"Democrazia Cristiana\" with the rising laicist and liberal values of the Italian society in the 1960s, and the necessity to integrate new important social groups (youth, women, workers) in the democratic system. DC's mission, in Moro's vision, was intended to recover the popular class that supported Fascism and ferry them in the democratic system. The contradiction of Moro's political stance was in trying to reconcile the extreme mobility of social transformations with the continuity of the institutions of representative democracy, and the integration of the masses in the State, without falling into autocracy.\n\nFollowing the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, the Italian Socialist Party had taken a definitive distance from the Italian Communist Party, and Pietro Nenni had collaborated with the DC in the early 1960s. After the rise of the Italian Communist Party of Enrico Berlinguer at the 1976 general elections, when the Communists scored 34,4% of the votes, Moro conceived the idea of a \"national solidarity\" cabinet, whose parliamentary base should include the Italian Communist Party as well. Moro's idea was openly criticised, as such an \"Historic Compromise\" would have involved an Italian Communist Party which was still under direct influence from Moscow. Berlinguer openly defused the proposition.\n\nIn 1976–1977, Berlinguer's Italian Communist Party broke with Moscow, and convened with the Spanish and French parties to draw the lines of Eurocommunism. Such a move made an eventual collaboration more acceptable for DC voters, and the two parties began an intense parliamentary debate, in a moment of deep social crises.\n\nIn 1977, Moro was personally involved in international disputes. He strongly defended Mariano Rumor during the parliamentary debate on the Lockheed scandal, and some in the press reported that he might have been \"Antelope Cobbler\", an alleged bribe recipient. The accusation, aimed at politically destroying Moro and avoiding the risk of a \"Historic Compromise\" cabinet, failed when Moro was cleared on 3 March 1978, 13 days before his kidnapping.\n\nThe early-1978 proposition by Moro of a Christian Democracy-Italian Socialist Party cabinet supported also by the Italian Communist Party was strongly opposed by both super-powers. The United States feared that the collaboration of an Italian government with the Communists might have allowed these later to gain information on strategic NATO military plans and installations, and pass them to Soviet agents. Moreover, the participation in government of the Communists in a Western country would have represented a cultural failure for the USA. The Soviets considered potential participation by the Italian Communist Party in a cabinet a form of emancipation from Moscow and rapprochement to the Americans, therefore also opposing it.\n\nOn 16 March 1978, on Via Fani, a street in Rome, a unit of the militant far-left organisation known as the Red Brigades () blocked the two-car convoy transporting Moro and kidnapped him, murdering his five bodyguards. At the time, all of the founding members of the Red Brigades were in jail; therefore, the organisation led by Mario Moretti that kidnapped Moro is said to be the \"Second Red Brigades\".\n\nOn the day of his kidnapping, Moro was on his way to a session of the Chamber of Deputies, where a discussion was to take place regarding a vote of confidence for a new government led by Giulio Andreotti (DC) that would have, for the first time, the support of the Communist Party. It was to be the first implementation of Moro's strategic political vision as defined by the \"Compromesso storico\" (historic compromise).\n\nIn the following days, trade unions called for a general strike, while security forces made hundreds of raids in Rome, Milan, Turin, and other cities searching for Moro's location. Held for two months, he was allowed to send letters to his family and politicians. The government refused to negotiate, despite demands by family, friends and Pope Paul VI. In fact, Paul VI \"offered himself in exchange ... for Aldo Moro\".\n\nDuring the investigation of Moro's kidnapping, General Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa reportedly responded to a member of the security services who suggested torturing a suspected \"brigatista\", \"Italy can survive the loss of Aldo Moro. It would not survive the introduction of torture.\" The Red Brigades initiated a secret trial where Moro was found guilty and sentenced to death. Then they sent demands to the Italian authorities, stating that unless 16 Red Brigades prisoners were released, Moro would be killed. The Italian authorities responded with a large-scale manhunt.\n\nThe Red Brigades proposed to exchange Moro's life for the freedom of several prisoners. There has been speculation that during his detention many knew where he was (in an apartment in Rome). When Moro was abducted, the government immediately took a hard line position: the \"State must not bend\" on 'terrorist demands'. Some contrasted this with the kidnapping of Ciro Cirillo in 1981, a minor political figure for whom the government negotiated. However, Cirillo was released for a monetary ransom, rather than the release of the imprisoned extremists.\n\nOn 2 April Romano Prodi, Mario Baldassarri, and Alberto Clò, of the faculty of the University of Bologna, passed on a tip about a safe-house where the Red Brigades might have been holding Moro. Prodi claimed he had been given the tip by the founders of the Christian Democrats, from beyond a grave in a séance and a Ouija board, which gave the names of Viterbo, Bolsena and Gradoli.\n\nDuring this period, Moro wrote several letters to the leaders of the Christian Democrats and to Pope Paul VI, who later personally officiated in Moro's Funeral Mass. Some of those letters, at times very critical of Andreotti, were kept secret for more than a decade, and published only in the early 1990s. In his letters, Moro said that the state's primary objective should be saving lives, and that the government should comply with his kidnappers' demands. Most of the Christian Democrat leaders argued that the letters did not express Moro's genuine wishes, claiming they were written under duress, and thus refused all negotiation. This was in stark contrast to the requests of Moro's family. In his appeal to the terrorists, Pope Paul asked them to release Moro \"without conditions\".\n\nWhen the Red Brigades decided to murder Moro, they placed him in a car and told him to cover himself with a blanket saying that they were going to transport him to another location. After Moro was covered they shot him ten times. According to the official reconstruction after a series of trials, the killer was Mario Moretti. Moro's body was left in the trunk of a red Renault 4 on Via Michelangelo Caetani towards the Tiber River near the Roman Ghetto.\n\nAfter the recovery of Moro's body, the Minister of the Interior Francesco Cossiga resigned.\n\nOn 7 April 1979, Marxist philosopher Antonio Negri was arrested along with other leaders of \"Autonomia Operaia\" (Oreste Scalzone, E. Vesce, A. Del Re, L. Ferrari Bravo, Franco Piperno and others). Pietro Calogero, an attorney close to the Italian Communist Party, accused the Autonomia group of masterminding left-wing terrorism in Italy. Negri was charged with a number of offences including leadership of the Red Brigades, being behind Moro's kidnapping and murder, and plotting to overthrow the government. A year later, he was found innocent of Moro's murder.\n\nIn 2003, Alexander Stille accused Negri of bearing moral but not legal responsibility for the crimes.\n\nIn 2005, Sergio Flamigni, a leftist politician and writer, who had served on a parliamentary inquiry on the Moro case, suggested the involvement of the Operation Gladio network directed by NATO. He asserted that Gladio had manipulated Moretti as a way to take over the Red Brigades in order to effect a strategy of tension aimed at creating popular demand for a new, right-wing law-and-order regime.\n\nIn 2006, the Harvard and MIT educated American psychiatrist and former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Management, Steve Pieczenik, was interviewed by Emmanuel Amara in his documentary film \"Les derniers jours d'Aldo Moro\" (\"The Last Days of Aldo Moro\"). In the interview, Pieczenik, an expert on international terrorism and negotiating strategies who had been brought to Italy as a consultant to Interior Minister Francesco Cossiga's Crisis Committee, stated that: \"We had to sacrifice Aldo Moro to maintain the stability of Italy.\"\n\nPieczenik maintained that the U.S. had had to \"instrumentalize the Red Brigades.\" According to him, the decision to have Moro killed was taken during the fourth week of his detention, when Moro was thought to be revealing state secrets in his letters, namely, the existence of Gladio. In another interview former interior minister Cossiga revealed that the Crisis Committee had also leaked a false statement attributed to the Red Brigades that Moro was already dead. This was intended to communicate to the kidnappers that further negotiations would be useless, since the government had written Moro off.\n\nAccording to media reports on 26 September 2012, the Holy See has received a file on beatification for Moro. Beatification is the first step to becoming a saint in the Roman Catholic Church. Nicola Giampaolo serves as the postulator for the cause.\n\nIn April 2015, it was reported that controversies around Moro could cause the suspension or closing of the cause. The postulator has stated the cause will continue when the discrepancies are cleared up. The halting of proceedings was due to Antonio Mennini, the priest who heard his last confession, being allowed to provide a statement to a tribunal in regards to Moro's kidnapping and confession. The cause was able to resume its initial investigations following this.\n\nA number of films have portrayed the events of Moro's kidnapping and murder with varying degrees of fictionalization including the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39100232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39100232", "title": "Alice, Countess of Bigorre", "text": "Alice, Countess of Bigorre\n\nAlice of Bigorre (1217/1220-1255), also known as \"Alice\" or \"Alix de Monfort\" was \"suo jure\" ruling Countess of Bigorre between 1251 and \n1255. \n\nShe was the eldest daughter of Petronilla, Countess of Bigorre and her third husband Guy de Monfort. Alice was married twice during her lifetime and from her first marriage, she gained the title of \"Lady of Chabanais\".\n\nAlice was born sometime between 1217 and 1220. She was the eldest child of her mother, she had one full sister also named Petronilla, who went on to marry Raoul de la Roche-Tesson. Her mother was married five times, her elder two daughters were the product of her third marriage. A fifth marriage to Boson of Mastas, Seigneur de Cognac, produced a half-sister named Martha, who married Gaston VII, Viscount of Béarn. Alice was cared for by her uncle, Amaury VI of Montfort, while he had her mother remarried. By the time of Petronilla's fifth marriage and the birth of her daughter Martha, she needed a stronger union so had Alice married off to Jordan, Lord of Chabanais, a relative of Boson of Mastas. An agreement was reached, upon Petronilla's death, Alice and Jordan would inherit Bigorre, whilst Martha would inherit her father's lands of Mastas. By 1247, Jordan had died and so Alice was left with their three children. She married for a second time to Raoul de Courtenay during 1247. The couple had a daughter named Matilda who later married Philip of Chieti.\n\nIn 1251, Petronilla died. However, she had passed control of the government over to Simon de Montfort, 6th Earl of Leicester, Alice's uncle. De Montfort had interpreted this act as a gift, so refused to hand Bigorre over to Alice on the death of her mother. Alice and her husband appealed to her half-sister Martha and her husband Gaston VII, Viscount of Béarn to help re-claim Bigorre, they accepted. To prevent Guyenne and Gascony from rebelling, Henry III of England recalled Simon de Montfort and appointed John Grailly in his place. However, Alice and her family re-claimed Bigorre during 1251. Alice reigned only for the next four years, dying in 1255. She was succeeded by her eldest son. However, following Alice's death, De Montfort did attempt to challenge her son for control of Bigorre once again. Upon Eskivat's death, control of Bigorre was disputed between Alice's sister Martha and her daughter Laura, with the latter eventually succeeding.\n\nThe marriage between Alice and Jordan produced three children:\n\n"}
{"id": "7531564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7531564", "title": "Art and morality", "text": "Art and morality\n\nArt and morality have been discussed, compared and linked for as long as they have been identified as concepts.\n\nIn the PL7, Zio Nirchio \"Republic\", Plato saw the function of the actor as bogus, presenting a dangerous illusion of reality, and masking the truth of existence by the pretence of acting. Aristotle, in \"The Poetics\", saw the role of the actor somewhat differently, suggesting that by witnessing \"pity and fear\" (in his view the essence of tragedy) on stage, an audience could experience a catharsis of the emotions associated with real tragic events, without having to experience them as first-hand participants.\n\nSince then, the 'stand-off' between those who have seen art as having a direct impact on morality, and those who have asserted its independence, has persisted. Tolstoy was ambivalent about the role of the artist (despite being one himself). In \"What is Art?\" he castigated now-canonical artists such as Shakespeare, Goethe and Wagner for failing to express the 'simple truths' about morality (as he saw them), opting instead to show off their poetic cleverness. He saw their work as morally reprehensible, effectively a wasting of their talents through their failure to communicate moral truth to the masses.\n\nSince the late nineteenth century and beyond, with the development of 'the Arts' as a cultural concept, the debate about art and morality has intensified, with the ever more challenging activities of artists becoming targets for those who see art as an influence for bad or good, and it has been a mainstay of many art critics' negative reviews. John Ruskin accused Whistler of \"flinging a pot of paint in the face of the audience\", and several of the ballets of Diaghilev scandalised audiences with their explicit (at the time) sexual themes.\n\nWhistler and Ruskin eventually went face-to-face in the courtroom. But in 1961, one of the most famous legal clashes between art and morality occurred when Penguin Books were taken to court over their publication of D. H. Lawrence's novel \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\". Similarly, in 1977 the Christian morality campaigner Mary Whitehouse successfully sued a magazine, \"Gay News\", under blasphemous libel laws. \n\nIn popular culture, pornography (if seen in aesthetic terms) is used as an example of the objectification of women, and violent films have been cited as the influence for so-called \"copycat\" acts in reality. An example of this was the Hungerford Massacre, where a gunman was alleged by the tabloid press to have been influenced by the \"Rambo\" series of films starring Sylvester Stallone.\n\nIn September 2001, shortly after the World Trade Center Attack, the German composer Karlheinz Stockhausen said of the atrocity that it was \"Lucifer's greatest work of art.\" (However, Stockhausen's comments were taken out of context and misunderstood.) The responses were immediate and extreme, fuelled once again by the tabloid press. Some have found, here and elsewhere, art in the service of morality to be politically dangerous.\n\nIn purely philosophical terms, the precise nature of art's links with morality have been long been questioned. Some have found no link between the aesthetic and the moral (i.e. being morally reprehensible does not deny an artwork its art status; it does not cease having aesthetic value no matter how depraved some might see it being), whereas others, who have not gone down the explicitly Platonist route, have argued that the relationship is one akin to supervenience. Here, it is argued that an essential component of the production of art, the human factor, can only be made sensible if taken along with the perceived moral codes which govern humanity.\n"}
{"id": "11448262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11448262", "title": "Artificial enzyme", "text": "Artificial enzyme\n\nAn artificial enzyme is a synthetic, organic molecule or ion that recreate some function of an enzyme. The area promises to deliver catalysis at rates and selectivity observed in many enzymes.\n\nEnzyme catalysis of chemical reactions occur with high selectivity and rate. The substrate is activated in a small part of the enzyme's macromolecule called the active site. There, the binding of a substrate close to functional groups in the enzyme causes catalysis by so-called proximity effects. It is possible to create similar catalysts from small molecule by combining substrate-binding with catalytic functional groups. Classically artificial enzymes bind substrates using receptors such as cyclodextrin, crown ethers, and calixarene.\n\nArtificial enzymes based on amino acids or peptides as characteristic molecular moieties have expanded the field of artificial enzymes or enzyme mimics. For instance, scaffolded histidine residues mimics certain metalloproteins and -enzymes such as hemocyanin, tyrosinase, and catechol oxidase).\n\nArtificial enzymes have been designed from scratch via a computational strategy using Rosetta. In December 2014, it was announced that active enzymes had been produced that were made from artificial molecules which do not occur anywhere in nature. In 2017, a book chapter entitled \"Artificial Enzymes: The Next Wave\" was published.\n\nNanozymes are nanomaterials with enzyme-like characteristics. They have been widely explored for various applications, such as biosensing, bioimaging, tumor diagnosis and therapy, antibiofouling. \nIn 1996 and 1997, Dugan et al. discovered the superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimicking activities of fullerene derivatives.\n\nIn 2004, the term \"nanozymes\" was coined by Flavio Manea, Florence Bodar Houillon, Lucia Pasquato, and Paolo Scrimin. In 2006, nanoceria (i.e., CeO2 nanoparticles) was used for preventing retinal degeneration induced by intracellular peroxides. In 2007, Xiyun Yan and coworkers reported that ferromagnetic nanoparticles possessed intrinsic peroxidase-like activity. In 2008, Hui Wei and Erkang Wang developed an iron oxide nanozyme based sensing platform for bioactive molecules (such as hydrogen peroxide and glucose). \nIn 2010 and 2011, graphene oxide with peroxidase-like activity was reported. In 2012, recombinant human heavy-chain ferritin coated iron oxide nanoparticle with peroxidase-like activity was prepared and used for targeting and visualizing tumour tissues. In 2012, vanadium pentoxide nanoparticles with vanadium haloperoxidase mimicking activities were used for preventing marine biofouling. In 2014, it was demonstrated that carboxyfullerene could be used to treat neuroprotection postinjury in Parkinsonian nonhuman primates. Peroxidase-like polyoxometalate derivatives were developed as functional anti-amyloid agents for Alzheimer’s disease. V2O5 nanozymes with cytoprotective function was reported. In 2015, a supramolecular regulation strategy was proposed to modulate the activity of gold-based nanozymes for imaging and therapeutic applications. A nanozyme-strip for rapid local diagnosis of Ebola was developed. Nanoceria nanozymes were used for DNA sensing. An integrated nanozyme has been developed for real time monitoring the dynamic changes of cerebral glucose in living brains. Cu(OH)2 nanozymes with peroxidase-like activities were reported. Ionic FePt, Fe3O4, Pd, and CdSe NPs with peroxidase-like activities were reported. A book entitled \"Nanozymes: Next Wave of Artificial Enzymes\" was published. A book chapter entitled \"Nanozymes\" in the book of \"Enzyme Engineering\" was published (in Chinese). Oxidase-like nanoceria has been used for developing self-regulated bioassays. Multi-enzyme mimicking Prussian blue was developed for therapeutics. Histidine was used to modulate iron oxide nanoparticles' peroxidase mimicking activities. Gold nanoparticles' peroxidase mimicking activities were modulated via a supramolecular strategy for cascade reactions. A molecular imprinting strategy was developed to improve the selectivity of Fe3O4 nanozymes with peroxidase-like activity. A new strategy was developed to enhance the peroxidase mimicking activity of gold nanoparticles by using hot electrons. Researchers have designed gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) based integrative nanozymes with both SERS and peroxidase mimicking activities for measuring glucose and lactate in living tissues. Cytochrome c oxidase mimicking activity of Cu2O nanoparticles was modulated by receiving electrons from cytochrome c. Fe3O4 NPs were combined with glucose oxidase for tumor therapeutics. Manganese dioxide nanozymes have been used as cytoprotective shells. Mn3O4 Nanozyme for Parkinson's Disease (cellular model) was reported. Heparin elimination in live rats has been monitored with 2D MOF based peroxidase mimics and AG73 peptide. Glucose oxidase and iron oxide nanozymes were encapsulated within multi-compartmental hydrogels for incompatible tandem reactions. A cascade nanozyme biosensor was developed for detection of viable Enterobacter sakazakii. An integrated nanozyme of GOx@ZIF-8(NiPd) was developed for tandem catalysis. Charge-switchable nanozymes were developed. Site-selective RNA splicing nanozyme was developed. A nanozymes special issue in Progress in Biochemistry and Biophysics was published. Mn3O4 nanozymes with ROS scavenging activities have been developed for in vivo anti-inflammation. A concept entitled \"A Step into the Future – Applications of Nanoparticle Enzyme Mimics\" was proposed. Facet-dependent oxidase and peroxidase-like activities of Pd nanoparticles were reported. Au@Pt multibranched nanostructures as bifunctional nanozymes were developed. Ferritin coated carbon nanozymes were developed for tumor catalytic therapy. CuO nanozymes were developed to kill bacteria via a light-controlled manner. Enzymatic activity of oxygenated CNT was studied. Nanozymes were used to catalyze the oxidation of l-Tyrosine and l-Phenylalanine to dopachrome. Nanozyme as an emerging alternative to natural enzyme for biosensing and immunoassay was summarized. Standardized assay was proposed for peroxidase-like nanozymes. Semiconductor QDs as nucleases for site-selective photoinduced cleavage of DNA. 2D-MOF nanozyme-based sensor arrays was constructed for detecting phosphates and probing their enzymatic hydrolysis. N-doped carbon nanomaterials as specific peroxidase mimics were reported. Nanozyme sensor arrays were developed to detect analytes from small Molecules to proteins and cells. \nSeveral conferences have focused on nanozymes. In 2015, a nanozyme workshop for was held at the 9th Asian Biophysics Associatation (ABA) Symposium. In Pittcon 2016, a Networking entitled \"Nanozymes in Analytical Chemistry and Beyond\" was devoted to nanozymes. An Xiangshan Science Conference was devoted to nanozyme research. A scientific session was devoted to \"Biomimetic Nanocatalysis\" in 15th Chinese Biophysics Congress. The \"Nanozymes for Bioanalysis (Oral)\" section was included in the 256th ACS National Meeting (2018 Fall, Boston).\n\n"}
{"id": "23634981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23634981", "title": "Betty and George Coumbias", "text": "Betty and George Coumbias\n\nBetty and George Coumbias were a Canadian married couple who sought to become the first husband and wife to complete simultaneous suicides with legal authorization. They were featured in John Zaritsky's 2007 documentary, \"The Suicide Tourist\". Although assisted suicide was illegal in Canada, they hoped to end their lives with the approval of the government of Switzerland.\n\nThe couple's request was unusual in that, while George Coumbias suffers from heart disease, Betty Coumbias was reported to be in excellent health. \nLudwig Minelli, director of Swiss assisted-suicide group Dignitas, petitioned the Canton of Zurich to grant doctors the authority to issue lethal drugs to healthy people, after they have been counseled by his organization, hoping to facilitate the Coumbias' suicide pact.\n\nIn 2009, Betty Coumbias developed cancer and died, while George continued to live with his heart condition.\n\nGeorge Coumbias died in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "20861435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20861435", "title": "Chiral polytope", "text": "Chiral polytope\n\nIn mathematics, there are two competing definitions for a chiral polytope. One is that it is a polytope that is chiral (or \"enantiomorphic\"), meaning that it does not have mirror symmetry. By this definition, a polytope that lacks any symmetry at all would be an example of a chiral polytope. \n\nThe other, competing definition of a chiral polytope is that it is a polytope that is as symmetric as possible without being mirror-symmetric, formalized in terms of the action of the symmetry group of the polytope on its flags. By this definition, even highly-symmetric and enantiomorphic polytopes such as the snub cube are not chiral. Much of the study of symmetric but chiral polytopes has been carried out in the framework of abstract polytopes, because of the paucity of geometric examples.\n\nMany polytopes lack mirror symmetry, and in that sense form chiral polytopes.\nThe simplest example is a scalene triangle.\n\nIt is possible for polytopes to have a high degree of symmetry, but yet to lack mirror symmetry; an example is the snub cube, which is vertex-transitive and chiral in this sense.\nThe more technical definition of a chiral polytope is a polytope that has two orbits of flags under its group of symmetries, with \nadjacent flags in different orbits. This implies that it must be vertex-transitive, edge-transitive, and face-transitive, as each vertex, edge, or face must be represented by flags in both orbits; however, it cannot be mirror-symmetric, as every mirror symmetry of the polytope would exchange some pair of adjacent flags.\n\nFor the purposes of this definition, the symmetry group of a polytope may be defined in either of two different ways: it can refer to the symmetries of a polytope as a geometric object (in which case the polytope is called \"geometrically chiral\") or it can refer to the symmetries of the polytope as a combinatorial structure (an abstract polytope). Chirality is meaningful for either type of symmetry but the two definitions classify different polytopes as being chiral or nonchiral.\n\nIn three dimensions, it is not possible for a geometrically chiral polytope to have finitely many finite faces. For instance, the snub cube is vertex-transitive, but its flags have more than two orbits, and it is neither edge-transitive nor face-transitive, so it is not symmetric enough to meet the formal definition of chirality. The quasiregular polyhedra and their duals, such as the cuboctahedron and the rhombic dodecahedron, provide another interesting type of near-miss: they have two orbits of flags, but are mirror-symmetric, and not every adjacent pair of flags belongs to different orbits. However, despite the nonexistence of finite chiral three-dimensional polyhedra, there exist infinite three-dimensional chiral skew polyhedra of types {4,6}, {6,4}, and {6,6}.\n\n"}
{"id": "15038854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15038854", "title": "Comparison of neurofeedback software", "text": "Comparison of neurofeedback software\n\nNeurofeedback (NFB), also called neurotherapy, neurobiofeedback or EEG biofeedback (EEGBF) is a therapy technique that presents the user with real-time information about activity within their brain, as measured by electrical or blood-flow sensors on the scalp. Brain activity is monitored and processed to provide feedback to the user in one of several ways, for example a video game rocket ship might accelerate when desired brainwaves are produced (positive feedback), or a film or music might pause when undesired brainwaves are produced (negative feedback).\n\nThe user then uses this feedback to develop the brainwaves they wish to create and as a consequence, learn to gain more control over their brainwaves and therefore how they think and feel in every day situations. It has been used to help a range of conditions including ADHD and addictions.\n\n"}
{"id": "3849994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3849994", "title": "Computational electromagnetics", "text": "Computational electromagnetics\n\nComputational electromagnetics, computational electrodynamics or electromagnetic modeling is the process of modeling the interaction of electromagnetic fields with physical objects and the environment.\n\nIt typically involves using computationally efficient approximations to Maxwell's equations and is used to calculate antenna performance, electromagnetic compatibility, radar cross section and electromagnetic wave propagation when not in free space.\n\nA specific part of computational electromagnetics deals with electromagnetic radiation scattered and absorbed by small particles.\n\nSeveral real-world electromagnetic problems like electromagnetic scattering, electromagnetic radiation, modeling of waveguides etc., are\nnot analytically calculable, for the multitude of irregular geometries found in actual devices. Computational numerical techniques can overcome the inability to derive closed form solutions of Maxwell's equations under various constitutive relations of media, and boundary conditions. This makes \"computational electromagnetics\" (CEM) important to the design, and modeling of antenna, radar, satellite and other communication systems, nanophotonic devices and high speed silicon electronics, medical imaging, cell-phone antenna design, among other applications.\n\nCEM typically solves the problem of computing the \"E\" (electric) and \"H\" (magnetic) fields across the problem domain (e.g., to calculate antenna radiation pattern for an arbitrarily shaped antenna structure). Also calculating power flow direction (Poynting vector), a waveguide's normal modes, media-generated wave dispersion, and scattering can be computed from the \"E\" and \"H\" fields. CEM models may or may not assume symmetry, simplifying real world structures to idealized cylinders, spheres, and other regular geometrical objects. CEM models extensively make use of symmetry, and solve for reduced dimensionality from 3 spatial dimensions to 2D and even 1D.\n\nAn eigenvalue problem formulation of CEM allows us to calculate steady state normal modes in a structure. Transient response and impulse field effects are more accurately modeled by CEM in time domain, by FDTD. Curved geometrical objects are treated more accurately as finite elements FEM, or non-orthogonal grids. Beam propagation method (BPM) can solve for the power flow in waveguides. CEM is application specific, even if different techniques converge to the same field and power distributions in the modeled domain.\n\nOne approach is to discretize the space in terms of grids (both orthogonal, and non-orthogonal) and solving Maxwell's equations at each point in the grid. Discretization consumes computer memory, and solving the equations takes significant time. Large-scale CEM problems face memory and CPU limitations. As of 2007, CEM problems require supercomputers, high performance clusters, vector processors and/or parallelism. Typical formulations involve either time-stepping through the equations over the whole domain for each time instant; or through banded matrix inversion to calculate the weights of basis functions, when modeled by finite element methods; or matrix products when using transfer matrix methods; or calculating integrals when using method of moments (MoM); or using fast fourier transforms, and time iterations when calculating by the split-step method or by BPM.\n\nChoosing the right technique for solving a problem is important, as choosing the wrong one can either result in incorrect results, or results which take excessively long to compute. However, the name of a technique does not always tell one how it is implemented, especially for commercial tools, which will often have more than one solver.\n\nDavidson gives two tables comparing the FEM, MoM and FDTD techniques in the way they are normally implemented. One table is for both open region (radiation and scattering problems) and another table is for guided wave problems.\n\nMaxwell's equations can be formulated as a hyperbolic system of partial differential equations. This gives access to powerful techniques for numerical solutions.\n\nIt is assumed that the waves propagate in the (\"x\",\"y\")-plane and restrict the direction of the magnetic field to be parallel to the \"z\"-axis and thus the electric field to be parallel to the (\"x\",\"y\") plane. The wave is called a transverse magnetic (TM) wave. In 2D and no polarization terms present, Maxwell's equations can then be formulated as:\n\nwhere \"u\", \"A\", \"B\", and \"C\" are defined as\n\nIn this representation, formula_6 is the forcing function, and is in the same space as formula_7. It can be used to express an externally applied field or to describe an optimization constraint. As formulated above:\n\nformula_6 may also be explicitly defined equal to zero to simplify certain problems, or to find a characteristic solution, which is often the first step in a method to find the particular inhomogeneous solution.\n\nThe discrete dipole approximation is a flexible technique for computing scattering and absorption by targets of arbitrary geometry. The formulation is based on integral form of Maxwell equations. The DDA is an approximation of the continuum target by a finite array of polarizable points. The points acquire dipole moments in response to the local electric field. The dipoles of course interact with one another via their electric fields, so the DDA is also sometimes referred to as the coupled dipole approximation. The resulting linear system of equations is commonly solved using conjugate gradient iterations. The discretization matrix has symmetries (the integral form of Maxwell equations has form of convolution) enabling Fast Fourier Transform to multiply matrix times vector during conjugate gradient iterations.\n\nThe method of moments (MoM) or boundary element method (BEM) is a numerical computational method of solving linear partial differential equations which have been formulated as integral equations (i.e. in \"boundary integral\" form). It can be applied in many areas of engineering and science including fluid mechanics, acoustics, electromagnetics, fracture mechanics, and plasticity.\n\nMoM has become more popular since the 1980s. Because it requires calculating only boundary values, rather than values throughout the space, it is significantly more efficient in terms of computational resources for problems with a small surface/volume ratio. Conceptually, it works by constructing a \"mesh\" over the modeled surface. However, for many problems, BEM are significantly computationally less efficient than volume-discretization methods (finite element method, finite difference method, finite volume method). Boundary element formulations typically give rise to fully populated matrices. This means that the storage requirements and computational time will tend to grow according to the square of the problem size. By contrast, finite element matrices are typically banded (elements are only locally connected) and the storage requirements for the system matrices typically grow linearly with the problem size. Compression techniques (\"e.g.\" multipole expansions or adaptive cross approximation/hierarchical matrices) can be used to ameliorate these problems, though at the cost of added complexity and with a success-rate that depends heavily on the nature and geometry of the problem.\n\nBEM is applicable to problems for which Green's functions can be calculated. These usually involve fields in linear homogeneous media. This places considerable restrictions on the range and generality of problems suitable for boundary elements. Nonlinearities can be included in the formulation, although they generally introduce volume integrals which require the volume to be discretized before solution, removing an oft-cited advantage of BEM.\n\nThe fast multipole method (FMM) is an alternative to MoM or Ewald summation. It is an accurate simulation technique and requires less memory and processor power than MoM. The FMM was first introduced by Greengard and Rokhlin and is based on the multipole expansion technique. The first application of the FMM in computational electromagnetics was by Engheta et al.(1992). FMM can also be used to accelerate MoM.\n\nWhile the fast multipole method is useful for accelerating MoM solutions of integral equations with static or frequency-domain oscillatory kernels, the plane wave time-domain (PWTD) algorithm employs similar ideas to accelerate the MoM solution of time-domain integral equations involving the retarded potential. The PWTD algorithm was introduced in 1998 by Ergin, Shanker, and Michielssen.\n\nThe partial element equivalent circuit (PEEC) is a 3D full-wave modeling method suitable for combined electromagnetic and circuit analysis. Unlike MoM, PEEC is a full spectrum method valid from dc to the maximum frequency determined by the meshing. In the PEEC method, the integral equation is interpreted as Kirchhoff's voltage law applied to a basic PEEC cell which results in a complete circuit solution for 3D geometries. The equivalent circuit formulation allows for additional SPICE type circuit elements to be easily included. Further, the models and the analysis apply to both the time and the frequency domains. The circuit equations resulting from the PEEC model are easily constructed using a modified loop analysis (MLA) or modified nodal analysis (MNA) formulation. Besides providing a direct current solution, it has several other advantages over a MoM analysis for this class of problems since any type of circuit element can be included in a straightforward way with appropriate matrix stamps. The PEEC method has recently been extended to include nonorthogonal geometries. This model extension, which is consistent with the classical orthogonal formulation, includes the Manhattan representation of the geometries in addition to the more general quadrilateral and hexahedral elements. This helps in keeping the number of unknowns at a minimum and thus reduces computational time for nonorthogonal geometries.\n\nFinite-difference time-domain (FDTD) is a popular CEM technique. It is easy to understand. It has an exceptionally simple implementation for a full wave solver. It is at least an order of magnitude less work to implement a basic FDTD solver than either an FEM or MoM solver. FDTD is the only technique where one person can realistically implement oneself in a reasonable time frame, but even then, this will be for a quite specific problem. Since it is a time-domain method, solutions can cover a wide frequency range with a single simulation run, provided the time step is small enough to satisfy the Nyquist–Shannon sampling theorem for the desired highest frequency.\n\nFDTD belongs in the general class of grid-based differential time-domain numerical modeling methods. Maxwell's equations (in partial differential form) are modified to central-difference equations, discretized, and implemented in software. The equations are solved in a cyclic manner: the electric field is solved at a given instant in time, then the magnetic field is solved at the next instant in time, and the process is repeated over and over again.\n\nThe basic FDTD algorithm traces back to a seminal 1966 paper by Kane Yee in IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation. Allen Taflove originated the descriptor \"Finite-difference time-domain\" and its corresponding \"FDTD\" acronym in a 1980 paper in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility. Since about 1990, FDTD techniques have emerged as the primary means to model many scientific and engineering problems addressing electromagnetic wave interactions with material structures. An effective technique based on a time-domain finite-volume discretization procedure was introduced by Mohammadian et al. in 1991. Current FDTD modeling applications range from near-DC (ultralow-frequency geophysics involving the entire Earth-ionosphere waveguide) through microwaves (radar signature technology, antennas, wireless communications devices, digital interconnects, biomedical imaging/treatment) to visible light (photonic crystals, nanoplasmonics, solitons, and biophotonics). Approximately 30 commercial and university-developed software suites are available.\n\nMRTD is an adaptive alternative to the finite difference time domain method (FDTD) based on wavelet analysis.\n\nThe finite element method (FEM) is used to find approximate solution of partial differential equations (PDE) and integral equations. The solution approach is based either on eliminating the time derivatives completely (steady state problems), or rendering the PDE into an equivalent ordinary differential equation, which is then solved using standard techniques such as finite differences, etc.\n\nIn solving partial differential equations, the primary challenge is to create an equation which approximates the equation to be studied, but which is numerically stable, meaning that errors in the input data and intermediate calculations do not accumulate and destroy the meaning of the resulting output. There are many ways of doing this, with various advantages and disadvantages. The finite element method is a good choice for solving partial differential equations over complex domains or when the desired precision varies over the entire domain.\n\nThe finite integration technique (FIT) is a spatial discretization scheme to numerically solve electromagnetic field problems in time and frequency domain. It preserves basic topological properties of the continuous equations such as conservation of charge and energy. FIT was proposed in 1977 by Thomas Weiland and has been enhanced continually over the years. This method covers the full range of electromagnetics (from static up to high frequency) and optic applications and is the basis for commercial simulation tools.\n\nThe basic idea of this approach is to apply the Maxwell equations in integral form to a set of staggered grids. This method stands out due to high flexibility in geometric modeling and boundary handling as well as incorporation of arbitrary material distributions and material properties such as anisotropy, non-linearity and dispersion. Furthermore, the use of a consistent dual orthogonal grid (e.g. Cartesian grid) in conjunction with an explicit time integration scheme (e.g. leap-frog-scheme) leads to compute and memory-efficient algorithms, which are especially adapted for transient field analysis in radio frequency (RF) applications.\n\nThis class of marching-in-time computational techniques for Maxwell's equations uses either discrete Fourier or discrete Chebyshev transforms to calculate the spatial derivatives of the electric and magnetic field vector components that are arranged in either a 2-D grid or 3-D lattice of unit cells. PSTD causes negligible numerical phase velocity anisotropy errors relative to FDTD, and therefore allows problems of much greater electrical size to be modeled.\n\nPSSD solves Maxwell's equations by propagating them forward in a chosen spatial direction. The fields are therefore held as a function of time, and (possibly) any transverse spatial dimensions. The method is pseudo-spectral because temporal derivatives are calculated in the frequency domain with the aid of FFTs. Because the fields are held as functions of time, this enables arbitrary dispersion in the propagation medium to be rapidly and accurately modelled with minimal effort. However, the choice to propagate forward in space (rather than in time) brings with it some subtleties, particularly if reflections are important.\n\nTransmission line matrix (TLM) can be formulated in several means as a direct set of lumped elements solvable directly by a circuit solver (ala SPICE, HSPICE, et al.), as a custom network of elements or via a scattering matrix approach. TLM is a very flexible analysis strategy akin to FDTD in capabilities, though more codes tend to be available with FDTD engines.\n\nThis is an implicit method. In this method, in two-dimensional case, Maxwell equations are computed in two steps, whereas in three-dimensional case Maxwell equations are divided into three spatial coordinate directions. Stability and dispersion analysis of the three-dimensional LOD-FDTD method have been discussed in detail.\n\nEigenmode expansion (EME) is a rigorous bi-directional technique to simulate electromagnetic propagation which relies on the decomposition of the electromagnetic fields into a basis set of local eigenmodes. The eigenmodes are found by solving Maxwell's equations in each local cross-section. Eigenmode expansion can solve Maxwell's equations in 2D and 3D and can provide a fully vectorial solution provided that the mode solvers are vectorial. It offers very strong benefits compared with the FDTD method for the modelling of optical waveguides, and it is a popular tool for the modelling of fiber optics and silicon photonics devices.\n\nPhysical optics (PO) is the name of a high frequency approximation (short-wavelength approximation) commonly used in optics, electrical engineering and applied physics. It is an intermediate method between geometric optics, which ignores wave effects, and full wave electromagnetism, which is a precise theory. The word \"physical\" means that it is more physical than geometrical optics and not that it is an exact physical theory.\n\nThe approximation consists of using ray optics to estimate the field on a surface and then integrating that field over the surface to calculate the transmitted or scattered field. This resembles the Born approximation, in that the details of the problem are treated as a perturbation.\n\nThe uniform theory of diffraction (UTD) is a high frequency method for solving electromagnetic scattering problems from electrically small discontinuities or discontinuities in more than one dimension at the same point.\n\nThe uniform theory of diffraction approximates near field electromagnetic fields as quasi optical and uses ray diffraction to determine diffraction coefficients for each diffracting object-source combination. These coefficients are then used to calculate the field strength and phase for each direction away from the diffracting point. These fields are then added to the incident fields and reflected fields to obtain a total solution.\n\nValidation is one of the key issues facing electromagnetic simulation users. The user must understand and master the validity domain of its simulation. The measure is, \"how far from the reality are the results?\"\n\nAnswering this question involves three steps: comparison between simulation results and analytical formulation, cross-comparison between codes, and comparison of simulation results with measurement.\n\nFor example, assessing the value of the radar cross section of a plate with the analytical formula:\n\nOne example is the cross comparison of results from method of moments and asymptotic methods in their validity domains.\n\nThe final validation step is made by comparison between measurements and simulation. For example, the RCS calculation and the measurement of a complex metallic object at 35 GHz. The computation implements GO, PO and PTD for the edges.\n\nValidation processes can clearly reveal that some differences can be explained by the differences between the experimental setup and its reproduction in the simulation environment.\n\nThere are now many efficient codes for solving electromagnetic scattering problems. They are listed as discrete dipole approximation codes, codes for electromagnetic scattering by cylinders, codes for electromagnetic scattering by spheres. Solutions which are analytical, such as Mie solution for scattering by spheres or cylinders, can be used to validate more involved techniques.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30188370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30188370", "title": "Dazhou protests of 2007", "text": "Dazhou protests of 2007\n\nDazhou, Sichuan gained notoriety for the corruption of Dazhu County (大竹) officials that caused a mass protest in January 2007. The incident involved a 16-year-old waitress in the KTV rooms of Laishide (莱仕德) Hotel.\n\nLaishide (莱仕德) Hotel was a four-star hotel built with investment from local officials and local police, and the sentiment against the hotel among the local populace existed long before the mass protest in January 2007 because of illegal and corrupt activities behind the closed doors of the hotel.\n\nMiss Yang Daili (杨代莉), a 16-year-old young girl working at the hotel's karaoke rooms (KTV) was famed for her beauty and height, 1.70 meters. On December 29, 2006, three high-ranking provincial officials went to the Laishide Hotel and asked Miss Yang Daili to have dinner with them, and took her out the same night. The next morning, Miss Yang Daili was found dead in a suite at the hotel. According to the police report, Miss Yang was drugged and raped, and she suffered brutal torture, including her tongue being cut, teeth broken due to beating, nipples cut off, and privates mutilated.\n\nMiss Yang Daili's family started a protest outside the hotel on January 12, 2007. After they received no explanation from the hotel despite repeated requests, sympathizers and those who resented corruption gathered around the family to show their support. Their number first increased by the dozens daily, then by the hundreds, and eventually by the thousands. The attempt of Laishide Hotel to settle down before catching the real killer only increased public outrage even further, because previously, two waitresses and a security guard working at the hotel had been killed and no suspects had been found. The official local governmental news website, however, failed to mention anything on these three previous murders and it once again attempted do the same for the most recent murder.\n\nBy the afternoon of January 17, 2007, more than ten thousand protesters had gathered outside the hotel, and as the news of Laishide Hotel offering Miss Yang Daili's family half a million Renminbi to settle before the killers were found, and rejection of the offer by family members reached the crowd, the people finally had had enough. Angry protesters rushed into the hotel, damaged everything inside, and eventually set fire to the hotel. The fire was not put out until five hours later.\n\nAs the number of protesters and public outrage increased, the local government could no longer keep the murder a secret and was forced to release the police findings on January 18, 2007. However, the official local government's news release only publicized the police report of the crime scene, and attempted to blame the crime on a male hotel employee named Liu (劉). The action was unanimously viewed by the local populace as an attempt to cover up the involvement of three high-ranking governmental officials of provincial level. Government officials were involved in all of the previous three murders that had been kept secret by the local government but were forced into the open due the most recent event. The enraged protesters continued to gather after the fire was put out and clashed with riot police who were sent in.\n\n"}
{"id": "11446759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11446759", "title": "Dunedin (ship)", "text": "Dunedin (ship)\n\nThe Dunedin (1876–82) was the first ship to successfully transport a full cargo of refrigerated meat from New Zealand to England. In this capacity, it provided the impetus to develop the capacity of New Zealand as a major provider of agricultural exports, notwithstanding its remoteness from most markets.\n\nRobert Duncan and Co built the 1,320-ton, \"Dunedin\" at Port Glasgow in Scotland in 1874 for the Albion Line (later the Shaw, Savill & Albion Line). Her ship number was 67085. She cost ₤23,750 (£1.6 million, in 2010 inflation-adjusted British pounds). She was one of six \"Auckland\" class emigrant vessels, each designed to carry 400 passengers. In 1881, still painted in her original colours of a black hull with a gold band and pink boot topping as shown, she was refitted with a Bell Coleman refrigeration machine, with which she took the first load of frozen meat from New Zealand to the United Kingdom.\n\nHer first trip to New Zealand was in 1874 under Captain Whitson, who sailed her from London to Lyttelton, New Zealand in 98 days. In 1875, he sailed from London to Auckland in 94 days. All seven of her voyages from London to New Zealand prior to conversion were completed in under 100 days. Whitson remained her captain throughout the period she sailed with immigrants. In 1886, five years after she had been converted to take refrigerated cargo, Captain Arthur F Roberts became her captain after Captain Whitson had died at Oamaru on 4 May that year. Roberts, a Master Mariner, had been captain of the \"White Eagle\" and \"Trevelyn\". Both these ships had sailed to New Zealand under his command. Even after her conversion, the \"Dunedin\" continued to carry passengers.\n\nThis historical importance of the \"Dunedin\" is due to this meat shipment, which proved refrigerated meat could be exported long distances, so establishing the New Zealand meat export industry, and revolutionising agriculture in New Zealand and Australia. In the United Kingdom (UK), the rapidly expanding population had outrun the supply of local meat, leading to rapid increases in prices. The shipment of livestock from New Zealand to England was prohibitively expensive. New Zealand did export some canned meat, but the industry was in its infancy, and while the product was popular in the Pacific islands, it was less so in England.\n\nThe first attempt to ship refrigerated meat from Australasia was made when the \"Northam\" sailed from Australia to England in 1876; however the refrigeration machinery broke down en route and so the cargo was lost. Later that year chilled beef was sent from the United States to England (a shorter journey, at cooler, higher latitudes) and, although spoilage was high, this voyage provided some encouragement to Australian and New Zealand promoters of refrigeration. In 1877 the steamers \"Le Frigorifique\" and \"Paraguay\" carried frozen mutton from Argentina to France, proving the concept, if not the economic case, for longer-distance refrigerated shipping. In 1879 the \"Strathleven\", equipped with compression refrigeration, sailed from Sydney with of frozen beef and mutton as a small part of her cargo, and this meat arrived in good condition. As a result of this success a Director of the New Zealand and Australian Land Company (NZALC), William Soltau Davidson, sent an employee, Thomas Brydone, from New Zealand to the UK to investigate compression refrigeration units.\n\nIn 1880 Davidson convinced the company to invest in refrigeration. Teaming up with James Galbraith of the Albion shipping company, they approached John Bell and Sons and Joseph James Coleman, who had been involved in American chilled beef shipments. As a result of negotiations, Albion agreed to refit the \"Dunedin\" with a Bell-Coleman compression refrigeration machine, cooling the entire hold. Using 3 tons of coal a day, this steam-powered machine could chill the hold to 40 degrees Fahrenheit below surrounding air temperature, freezing the cargo in the temperate climate of southern New Zealand, and then maintaining it beneath zero through the tropics. The \"Dunedin\" was refitted in May 1881, the most visible sign being a funnel for the refrigeration plant between her fore and main masts – sometimes leading her to be mistaken for a steamship. The refitted \"Dunedin\" arrived in Dunedin's Port Chalmers at the end of November 1881.\n\nFrom 5 December 1881, a herd of 10,000 Merino/Lincoln and Leicester crossbreed sheep on NZALC's Totara Estate near Oamaru was slaughtered at a purpose-built slaughter works close to the railhead there. The carcasses were sent overnight by goods trains with a central block of ice to be loaded on the \"Dunedin\", where they were sewn into calico bags and frozen. To prove the process, the first frozen carcasses were taken off the ship, thawed and cut.\n\nAfter 7 days of loading, the crankshaft of the compressor broke, damaging the machine's casing and causing the loss of the 643 sheep stowed. It took a month for a local machinist to rebuild the crankshaft and associated machinery. The frozen carcasses were resold locally during this time, and, encouragingly, they were considered to be indistinguishable from fresh meat. On 15 February 1882, the \"Dunedin\" sailed with 4331 mutton, 598 lamb and 22 pig carcasses, 250 kegs of butter, hare, pheasant, turkey, chicken and 2226 sheep tongues. Sparks from the compressor's boiler created a fire hazard, and Captain Whitson at one point developed hypothermia while working alone in the air duct.\n\nThe \"Dunedin\" arrived in London 98 days after setting sail. Carcasses were sold at the Smithfield market over two weeks by John Swan and Sons, who noted butchers' concerns about the quality of meat from the experimental transport; \"Directly the meat was placed on the market, its superiority over the Australian [frozen] meat struck us, and in fact the entire trade\". Although crossed with the primarily wool bearing Merino, the well fed New Zealand sheep weighed an average of over , and some exceeded . Only one carcass was condemned. The Times commented \"Today we have to record such a triumph over physical difficulties, as would have been incredible, even unimaginable, a very few days ago...\". After meeting all costs, NZALC's profit from the voyage was £4700.\n\nThe shipment effectively launched the refrigerated meat industry and assured New Zealand's early dominance in it. The \"Marlborough\"—sister ship to the \"Dunedin\" – was immediately converted and joined the trade the following year, along with the rival New Zealand Shipping Company vessel \"Mataurua\", while the German steamer \"Marsala\" began carrying frozen New Zealand lamb in December 1882. Within five years, 172 shipments of frozen meat were sent from New Zealand to the United Kingdom, of which only 9 had significant amounts of meat condemned. The \"Dunedin\" completed nine more voyages until her loss in 1890.\n\nHer sister ship, the \"Marlborough\" had sailed in January 1890 and the \"Dunedin\" followed in March, sailing from Oamaru on 19 March with 34 crew including Captain Roberts. Roberts' daughter was the only passenger. By July concerns were being expressed about the ship, as she normally made the journey in 90 or so days and by October she was noted as missing.\n\nAlthough both the \"Dunedin\" and \"Marlborough\" were sighted in the Southern Ocean after leaving New Zealand, neither was \nseen again. No trace was found of the \"Dunedin\" and it was presumed both she and the \"Marlborough\" hit icebergs in the Southern Ocean. RMS \"Rimutaka\" had reported that there were great quantities of ice in the Southern Ocean on their normal route between the Chatham Island and Cape Horn when she sailed through the area in early to mid February. The Board of Enquiry concluded that apart from hitting an iceberg another possibility was that the \"Dunedin\" had come to grief in a storm. They found that the ship was seaworthy, appropriately laden, and sailed by an experienced Captain and crew.\n\nThere were two reports of sightings of the \"Dunedin\" in 1890; one by the ship \"London\" which said they had sailed near each other in the vicinity of Cape Horn prior to being separated in a storm, and another about her being found on the coast of Brazil with yellow fever on board. This latter story was dismissed as untrue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18811112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18811112", "title": "Electrical brain stimulation", "text": "Electrical brain stimulation\n\nElectrical brain stimulation (EBS), also referred to as focal brain stimulation (FBS), is a form of electrotherapy and technique used in research and clinical neurobiology to stimulate a neuron or neural network in the brain through the direct or indirect excitation of its cell membrane by using an electric current. It is used for research or for therapeutical purposes.\n\nElectrical brain stimulation was first used in the first half of the 19th century by pioneering researchers such as Luigi Rolando (1773–1831) and Pierre Flourens (1794–1867), to study the brain localization of function, following the discovery by Italian physician Luigi Galvani (1737–1798) that nerves and muscles were electrically excitable. The stimulation of the surface of the cerebral cortex by using brain stimulation was used to investigate the motor cortex in animals by researchers such as Eduard Hitzig (1838–1907), Gustav Fritsch (1838–1927), David Ferrier (1842–1928) and Friedrich Goltz (1834–1902). The human cortex was also stimulated electrically by neurosurgeons and neurologists such as Robert Bartholow (1831–1904) and Fedor Krause (1857–1937).\n\nIn the following century, the technique was improved by the invention of the stereotactic method by British neurosurgeon pioneer Victor Horsley (1857–1916), and by the development of chronic electrode implants by Swiss neurophysiologist Walter Rudolf Hess (1881–1973), José Delgado (1915-2011) and others, by using electrodes manufactured by straight insulated wire that could be inserted deep into the brain of freely-behaving animals, such as cats and monkeys. This approach was used by Dr.James Olds (1922–1976) and colleagues to discover brain stimulation reward and the pleasure center. American-Canadian neurosurgeon Wilder Penfield (1891–1976) and colleagues at the Montreal Neurological Institute used extensively electrical stimulation of the brain cortex in awake neurosurgical patients to investigate the motor and sensory homunculus (the representation of the body in the brain cortex according to the distribution of motor and sensory territories).\n\nEBS remains inextricably entwined with the work of Dr. Robert Galbraith Heath, Dr. Jose Delgado and Dr. Wilder Penfield. It's of interest that during cerebral localization studies, neurosurgeon Penfield could not elicit emotional reactions in humans, either by observing spontaneous epilepsy or by electrically stimulating the surface of the cerebral cortex. Neurophysiologist Dr. Jose Delgado noted a few exceptions to this rule. In contrast, EBS, via deeply implanted electrodes in localized areas of the brain (deep brain stimulation; DBS), elicited both pleasurable and aversive responses in laboratory animals and man as previously described.\n\nEBS could elicit the ritualistic, motor responses of sham rage in cats by stimulation of the anterior hypothalamus, as well as more complex emotional and behavioral components of \"true rage\" in both experimental animals by stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus, and in human subjects by stimulating various deep areas of the brain. EBS in human patients with epilepsy could trigger seizures in the surface of the brain and pathologic aggression and rage with stimulation of the amygdala.\n\nTwo-photon excitation microscopy has shown that microstimulation activates neurons sparsely around the electrode even at low currents (as low as 10 μA) up to distances as far as four millimeters away. This happens without particularly selecting other neurons much nearer the electrode's tip. This is due to activation of neurons being determined by whether they do or do not have axons or dendrites that pass within a radius of 15 μm near the tip of the electrode. As the current is increased the volume around the tip that activates neuron axons and dendrites increases and with this the number of neurons activated. Activation is most likely to be due to direct depolarization rather than synaptic activation.\n\nA comprehensive review of EBS research compiled a list of many different acute impacts of stimulation depending on the brain region targeted. Following are some examples of the effects documented:\n\nEBS in face-sensitive regions of the fusiform gyrus caused a patient to report that the faces of the people in the room with him had \"metamorphosed\" and became distorted: \"Your nose got saggy, went to the left. [...] Only your face changed, everything else was the same.\"\n\nExamples of therapeutic EBS are:\n\n\nStrong electric currents may cause a localized lesion in the nervous tissue, instead of a functional reversible stimulation. This property has been used for neurosurgical procedures in a variety of treatments, such as for Parkinson's disease, focal epilepsy and psychosurgery. Sometimes the same electrode is used to probe the brain for finding defective functions, before passing the lesioning current (electrocoagulation).\n"}
{"id": "3119872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3119872", "title": "Evolver (software)", "text": "Evolver (software)\n\nEvolver is a software package that allows users to solve a wide variety of optimization problems using a genetic algorithm. Launched in 1989, it was the first commercially available genetic algorithm package for personal computers. The program was originally developed by Axcelis, Inc. and is now owned by Palisade Corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "248189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248189", "title": "Gaia hypothesis", "text": "Gaia hypothesis\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis (, , ), also known as the Gaia theory or the Gaia principle, proposes that living organisms interact with their inorganic surroundings on Earth to form a synergistic and self-regulating, complex system that helps to maintain and perpetuate the conditions for life on the planet.\n\nThe hypothesis was formulated by the chemist James Lovelock and co-developed by the microbiologist Lynn Margulis in the 1970s. Lovelock named the idea after Gaia, the primordial goddess who personified the Earth in Greek mythology. In 2006, the Geological Society of London awarded Lovelock the Wollaston Medal in part for his work on the Gaia hypothesis.\n\nTopics related to the hypothesis include how the biosphere and the evolution of organisms affect the stability of global temperature, salinity of seawater, atmospheric oxygen levels, the maintenance of a hydrosphere of liquid water and other environmental variables that affect the habitability of Earth.\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis was initially criticized for being teleological and against the principles of natural selection, but later refinements aligned the Gaia hypothesis with ideas from fields such as Earth system science, biogeochemistry and systems ecology. Lovelock also once described the \"geophysiology\" of the Earth. Even so, the Gaia hypothesis continues to attract criticism, and today some scientists consider it to be only weakly supported by, or at odds with, the available evidence.\n\nGaian hypotheses suggest that organisms co-evolve with their environment: that is, they \"influence their abiotic environment, and that environment in turn influences the biota by Darwinian process\". Lovelock (1995) gave evidence of this in his second book, showing the evolution from the world of the early thermo-acido-philic and methanogenic bacteria towards the oxygen-enriched atmosphere today that supports more complex life.\n\nA reduced version of the hypothesis has been called \"influential Gaia\" in \"Directed Evolution of the Biosphere: Biogeochemical Selection or Gaia?\" by Andrei G. Lapenis, which states the biota influence certain aspects of the abiotic world, e.g. temperature and atmosphere. This is not the work of an individual but a collective of Russian scientific research that was combined into this peer reviewed publication. It states the coevolution of life and the environment through “micro-forces” and biogeochemical processes. An example is how the activity of photosynthetic bacteria during Precambrian times have completely modified the Earth atmosphere to turn it aerobic, and as such supporting evolution of life (in particular eukaryotic life).\n\nSince barriers existed throughout the Twentieth Century between Russia and the rest of the world, it is only relatively recently that the early Russian scientists who introduced concepts overlapping the Gaia hypothesis have become better known to the Western scientific community. These scientists include:\n\nBiologists and Earth scientists usually view the factors that stabilize the characteristics of a period as an undirected emergent property or entelechy of the system; as each individual species pursues its own self-interest, for example, their combined actions may have counterbalancing effects on environmental change. Opponents of this view sometimes reference examples of events that resulted in dramatic change rather than stable equilibrium, such as the conversion of the Earth's atmosphere from a reducing environment to an oxygen-rich one at the end of the Archaean and the beginning of the Proterozoic periods.\n\nLess accepted versions of the hypothesis claim that changes in the biosphere are brought about through the coordination of living organisms and maintain those conditions through homeostasis. In some versions of Gaia philosophy, all lifeforms are considered part of one single living planetary being called \"Gaia\". In this view, the atmosphere, the seas and the terrestrial crust would be results of interventions carried out by Gaia through the coevolving diversity of living organisms.\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis was an influence on the deep ecology movement.\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis posits that the Earth is a self-regulating complex system involving the biosphere, the atmosphere, the hydrospheres and the pedosphere, tightly coupled as an evolving system. The hypothesis contends that this system as a whole, called Gaia, seeks a physical and chemical environment optimal for contemporary life.\n\nGaia evolves through a cybernetic feedback system operated unconsciously by the biota, leading to broad stabilization of the conditions of habitability in a full homeostasis. Many processes in the Earth's surface essential for the conditions of life depend on the interaction of living forms, especially microorganisms, with inorganic elements. These processes establish a global control system that regulates Earth's surface temperature, atmosphere composition and ocean salinity, powered by the global thermodynamic disequilibrium state of the Earth system.\n\nThe existence of a planetary homeostasis influenced by living forms had been observed previously in the field of biogeochemistry, and it is being investigated also in other fields like Earth system science. The originality of the Gaia hypothesis relies on the assessment that such homeostatic balance is actively pursued with the goal of keeping the optimal conditions for life, even when terrestrial or external events menace them.\n\nSince life started on Earth, the energy provided by the Sun has increased by 25% to 30%; however, the surface temperature of the planet has remained within the levels of habitability, reaching quite regular low and high margins. Lovelock has also hypothesised that methanogens produced elevated levels of methane in the early atmosphere, giving a view similar to that found in petrochemical smog, similar in some respects to the atmosphere on Titan. This, he suggests tended to screen out ultraviolet until the formation of the ozone screen, maintaining a degree of homeostasis. However, the Snowball Earth research has suggested that \"oxygen shocks\" and reduced methane levels led, during the Huronian, Sturtian and Marinoan/Varanger Ice Ages, to a world that very nearly became a solid \"snowball\". These epochs are evidence against the ability of the pre Phanerozoic biosphere to fully self-regulate.\n\nProcessing of the greenhouse gas CO, explained below, plays a critical role in the maintenance of the Earth temperature within the limits of habitability.\n\nThe CLAW hypothesis, inspired by the Gaia hypothesis, proposes a feedback loop that operates between ocean ecosystems and the Earth's climate. The hypothesis specifically proposes that particular phytoplankton that produce dimethyl sulfide are responsive to variations in climate forcing, and that these responses lead to a negative feedback loop that acts to stabilise the temperature of the Earth's atmosphere.\n\nCurrently the increase in human population and the environmental impact of their activities, such as the multiplication of greenhouse gases may cause negative feedbacks in the environment to become positive feedback. Lovelock has stated that this could bring an extremely accelerated global warming, but he has since stated the effects will likely occur more slowly.\n\nJames Lovelock and Andrew Watson developed the mathematical model Daisyworld, in which temperature regulation arises from a simple ecosystem consisting of two species whose activity varies in response to the planet's environment. The model demonstrates that beneficial feedback mechanisms can emerge in this \"toy world\" containing only self-interested organisms rather than through classic group selection mechanisms.\n\nDaisyworld examines the energy budget of a planet populated by two different types of plants, black daisies and white daisies. The colour of the daisies influences the albedo of the planet such that black daisies absorb light and warm the planet, while white daisies reflect light and cool the planet. As the model runs the output of the \"sun\" increases, meaning that the surface temperature of an uninhabited \"gray\" planet will steadily rise. In contrast, on Daisyworld competition between the daisies (based on temperature-effects on growth rates) leads to a shifting balance of daisy populations that tends to favour a planetary temperature close to the optimum for daisy growth.\n\nIt has been suggested that the results were predictable because Lovelock and Watson selected examples that produced the responses they desired.\n\nOcean salinity has been constant at about 3.5% for a very long time. Salinity stability in oceanic environments is important as most cells require a rather constant salinity and do not generally tolerate values above 5%. The constant ocean salinity was a long-standing mystery, because no process counterbalancing the salt influx from rivers was known. Recently it was suggested that salinity may also be strongly influenced by seawater circulation through hot basaltic rocks, and emerging as hot water vents on mid-ocean ridges. However, the composition of seawater is far from equilibrium, and it is difficult to explain this fact without the influence of organic processes. One suggested explanation lies in the formation of salt plains throughout Earth's history. It is hypothesized that these are created by bacterial colonies that fix ions and heavy metals during their life processes.\n\nIn the biogeochemical processes of the earth, sources and sinks are the movement of elements. The composition of salt ions within our oceans and seas are: sodium (Na), chlorine (Cl), sulfate (SO), Magnesium (Mg), calcium (Ca) and potassium (K). The elements that comprise salinity do not readily change and are a conservative property of seawater. There are many mechanisms that change salinity from a particulate form to a dissolved form and back. The known sources of sodium i.e. salts is when weathering, erosion, and dissolution of rocks transport into rivers and deposit into the oceans.\n\nThe Mediterranean Sea as being Gaia's kidney is found (here) by Kenneth J. Hsue a correspondence author in 2001. The \"desiccation\" of the Mediterranean is the evidence of a functioning kidney. Earlier \"kidney functions\" were performed during the \"deposition of the Cretaceous (South Atlantic), Jurassic (Gulf of Mexico), Permo-Triassic (Europe), Devonian (Canada), Cambrian/Precambrian (Gondwana) saline giants.\"\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis states that the Earth's atmospheric composition is kept at a dynamically steady state by the presence of life. The atmospheric composition provides the conditions that contemporary life has adapted to. All the atmospheric gases other than noble gases present in the atmosphere are either made by organisms or processed by them.\n\nThe stability of the atmosphere in Earth is not a consequence of chemical equilibrium. Oxygen is a reactive compound, and should eventually combine with gases and minerals of the Earth's atmosphere and crust. Oxygen only began to persist in the atmosphere in small quantities about 50 million years before the start of the Great Oxygenation Event. Since the start of the Cambrian period, atmospheric oxygen concentrations have fluctuated between 15% and 35% of atmospheric volume. Traces of methane (at an amount of 100,000 tonnes produced per year) should not exist, as methane is combustible in an oxygen atmosphere.\n\nDry air in the atmosphere of Earth contains roughly (by volume) 78.09% nitrogen, 20.95% oxygen, 0.93% argon, 0.039% carbon dioxide, and small amounts of other gases including methane. Lovelock originally speculated that concentrations of oxygen above about 25% would increase the frequency of wildfires and conflagration of forests. Recent work on the findings of fire-caused charcoal in Carboniferous and Cretaceous coal measures, in geologic periods when O did exceed 25%, has supported Lovelock's contention. \n\nGaia scientists see the participation of living organisms in the carbon cycle as one of the complex processes that maintain conditions suitable for life. The only significant natural source of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO) is volcanic activity, while the only significant removal is through the precipitation of carbonate rocks. Carbon precipitation, solution and fixation are influenced by the bacteria and plant roots in soils, where they improve gaseous circulation, or in coral reefs, where calcium carbonate is deposited as a solid on the sea floor. Calcium carbonate is used by living organisms to manufacture carbonaceous tests and shells. Once dead, the living organisms' shells fall to the bottom of the oceans where they generate deposits of chalk and limestone.\n\nOne of these organisms is \"Emiliania huxleyi\", an abundant coccolithophore algae which also has a role in the formation of clouds. CO excess is compensated by an increase of coccolithophoride life, increasing the amount of CO locked in the ocean floor. Coccolithophorides increase the cloud cover, hence control the surface temperature, help cool the whole planet and favor precipitations necessary for terrestrial plants. Lately the atmospheric CO concentration has increased and there is some evidence that concentrations of ocean algal blooms are also increasing.\n\nLichen and other organisms accelerate the weathering of rocks in the surface, while the decomposition of rocks also happens faster in the soil, thanks to the activity of roots, fungi, bacteria and subterranean animals. The flow of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to the soil is therefore regulated with the help of living beings. When CO levels rise in the atmosphere the temperature increases and plants grow. This growth brings higher consumption of CO by the plants, who process it into the soil, removing it from the atmosphere.\n\nThe idea of the Earth as an integrated whole, a living being, has a long tradition. The mythical Gaia was the primal Greek goddess personifying the Earth, the Greek version of \"Mother Nature\" (from Ge = Earth, and Aia = \nPIE grandmother), or the Earth Mother. James Lovelock gave this name to his hypothesis after a suggestion from the novelist William Golding, who was living in the same village as Lovelock at the time (Bowerchalke, Wiltshire, UK). Golding's advice was based on Gea, an alternative spelling for the name of the Greek goddess, which is used as prefix in geology, geophysics and geochemistry. Golding later made reference to Gaia in his Nobel prize acceptance speech.\n\nIn the eighteenth century, as geology consolidated as a modern science, James Hutton maintained that geological and biological processes are interlinked. Later, the naturalist and explorer Alexander von Humboldt recognized the coevolution of living organisms, climate, and Earth's crust. In the twentieth century, Vladimir Vernadsky formulated a theory of Earth's development that is now one of the foundations of ecology. Vernadsky was a Ukrainian geochemist and was one of the first scientists to recognize that the oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide in the Earth's atmosphere result from biological processes. During the 1920s he published works arguing that living organisms could reshape the planet as surely as any physical force. Vernadsky was a pioneer of the scientific bases for the environmental sciences. His visionary pronouncements were not widely accepted in the West, and some decades later the Gaia hypothesis received the same type of initial resistance from the scientific community.\n\nAlso in the turn to the 20th century Aldo Leopold, pioneer in the development of modern environmental ethics and in the movement for wilderness conservation, suggested a living Earth in his biocentric or holistic ethics regarding land.\n\nAnother influence for the Gaia hypothesis and the environmental movement in general came as a side effect of the Space Race between the Soviet Union and the United States of America. During the 1960s, the first humans in space could see how the Earth looked as a whole. The photograph \"Earthrise\" taken by astronaut William Anders in 1968 during the Apollo 8 mission became, through the Overview Effect an early symbol for the global ecology movement.\n\nLovelock started defining the idea of a self-regulating Earth controlled by the community of living organisms in September 1965, while working at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California on methods of detecting life on Mars. The first paper to mention it was \"Planetary Atmospheres: Compositional and other Changes Associated with the Presence of Life\", co-authored with C.E. Giffin. A main concept was that life could be detected in a planetary scale by the chemical composition of the atmosphere. According to the data gathered by the Pic du Midi observatory, planets like Mars or Venus had atmospheres in chemical equilibrium. This difference with the Earth atmosphere was considered to be a proof that there was no life in these planets.\n\nLovelock formulated the \"Gaia Hypothesis\" in journal articles in 1972 and 1974, followed by a popularizing 1979 book \"Gaia: A new look at life on Earth\". An article in the \"New Scientist\" of February 6, 1975, and a popular book length version of the hypothesis, published in 1979 as \"The Quest for Gaia\", began to attract scientific and critical attention.\n\nLovelock called it first the Earth feedback hypothesis, and it was a way to explain the fact that combinations of chemicals including oxygen and methane persist in stable concentrations in the atmosphere of the Earth. Lovelock suggested detecting such combinations in other planets' atmospheres as a relatively reliable and cheap way to detect life.\n\nLater, other relationships such as sea creatures producing sulfur and iodine in approximately the same quantities as required by land creatures emerged and helped bolster the hypothesis.\n\nIn 1971 microbiologist Dr. Lynn Margulis joined Lovelock in the effort of fleshing out the initial hypothesis into scientifically proven concepts, contributing her knowledge about how microbes affect the atmosphere and the different layers in the surface of the planet. The American biologist had also awakened criticism from the scientific community with her theory on the origin of eukaryotic organelles and her contributions to the endosymbiotic theory, nowadays accepted. Margulis dedicated the last of eight chapters in her book, \"The Symbiotic Planet\", to Gaia. However, she objected to the widespread personification of Gaia and stressed that Gaia is \"not an organism\", but \"an emergent property of interaction among organisms\". She defined Gaia as \"the series of interacting ecosystems that compose a single huge ecosystem at the Earth's surface. Period\". The book's most memorable \"slogan\" was actually quipped by a student of Margulis': \"Gaia is just symbiosis as seen from space\".\n\nJames Lovelock called his first proposal the \"Gaia hypothesis\" but has also used the term \"Gaia theory\". Lovelock states that the initial formulation was based on observation, but still lacked a scientific explanation. The Gaia hypothesis has since been supported by a number of scientific experiments and provided a number of useful predictions. In fact, wider research proved the original hypothesis wrong, in the sense that it is not life alone but the whole Earth system that does the regulating.\n\nIn 1985, the first public symposium on the Gaia hypothesis, \"Is The Earth A Living Organism?\" was held at University of Massachusetts Amherst, August 1–6. The principal sponsor was the National Audubon Society. Speakers included James Lovelock, George Wald, Mary Catherine Bateson, Lewis Thomas, John Todd, Donald Michael, Christopher Bird, Thomas Berry, David Abram, Michael Cohen, and William Fields. Some 500 people attended.\n\nIn 1988, climatologist Stephen Schneider organised a conference of the American Geophysical Union. The first Chapman Conference on Gaia, was held in San Diego, California on March 7, 1988.\n\nDuring the \"philosophical foundations\" session of the conference, David Abram spoke on the influence of metaphor in science, and of the Gaia hypothesis as offering a new and potentially game-changing metaphorics, while James Kirchner criticised the Gaia hypothesis for its imprecision. Kirchner claimed that Lovelock and Margulis had not presented one Gaia hypothesis, but four -\n\n\nOf Homeostatic Gaia, Kirchner recognised two alternatives. \"Weak Gaia\" asserted that life tends to make the environment stable for the flourishing of all life. \"Strong Gaia\" according to Kirchner, asserted that life tends to make the environment stable, \"to enable\" the flourishing of all life. Strong Gaia, Kirchner claimed, was untestable and therefore not scientific.\n\nLovelock and other Gaia-supporting scientists, however, did attempt to disprove the claim that the hypothesis is not scientific because it is impossible to test it by controlled experiment. For example, against the charge that Gaia was teleological, Lovelock and Andrew Watson offered the Daisyworld Model (and its modifications, above) as evidence against most of these criticisms. Lovelock said that the Daisyworld model \"demonstrates that self-regulation of the global environment can emerge from competition amongst types of life altering their local environment in different ways\".\n\nLovelock was careful to present a version of the Gaia hypothesis that had no claim that Gaia intentionally or consciously maintained the complex balance in her environment that life needed to survive. It would appear that the claim that Gaia acts \"intentionally\" was a metaphoric statement in his popular initial book and was not meant to be taken literally. This new statement of the Gaia hypothesis was more acceptable to the scientific community. Most accusations of teleologism ceased, following this conference.\n\nBy the time of the 2nd Chapman Conference on the Gaia Hypothesis, held at Valencia, Spain, on 23 June 2000, the situation had changed significantly. Rather than a discussion of the Gaian teleological views, or \"types\" of Gaia hypotheses, the focus was upon the specific mechanisms by which basic short term homeostasis was maintained within a framework of significant evolutionary long term structural change.\n\nThe major questions were:\n\n\nIn 1997, Tyler Volk argued that a Gaian system is almost inevitably produced as a result of an evolution towards far-from-equilibrium homeostatic states that maximise entropy production, and Kleidon (2004) agreed stating: \"...homeostatic behavior can emerge from a state of MEP associated with the planetary albedo\"; \"...the resulting behavior of a biotic Earth at a state of MEP may well lead to near-homeostatic behavior of the Earth system on long time scales, as stated by the Gaia hypothesis\". Staley (2002) has similarly proposed \"...an alternative form of Gaia theory based on more traditional Darwinian principles... In [this] new approach, environmental regulation is a consequence of population dynamics, not Darwinian selection. The role of selection is to favor organisms that are best adapted to prevailing environmental conditions. However, the environment is not a static backdrop for evolution, but is heavily influenced by the presence of living organisms. The resulting co-evolving dynamical process eventually leads to the convergence of equilibrium and optimal conditions\".\n\nA fourth international conference on the Gaia hypothesis, sponsored by the Northern Virginia Regional Park Authority and others, was held in October 2006 at the Arlington, VA campus of George Mason University.\n\nMartin Ogle, Chief Naturalist, for NVRPA, and long-time Gaia hypothesis proponent, organized the event. Lynn Margulis, Distinguished University Professor in the Department of Geosciences, University of Massachusetts-Amherst, and long-time advocate of the Gaia hypothesis, was a keynote speaker. Among many other speakers: Tyler Volk, Co-director of the Program in Earth and Environmental Science at New York University; Dr. Donald Aitken, Principal of Donald Aitken Associates; Dr. Thomas Lovejoy, President of the Heinz Center for Science, Economics and the Environment; Robert Correll, Senior Fellow, Atmospheric Policy Program, American Meteorological Society and noted environmental ethicist, J. Baird Callicott.\n\nThis conference approached the Gaia hypothesis as both science and metaphor as a means of understanding how we might begin addressing 21st century issues such as climate change and ongoing environmental destruction.\n\nAfter initially being largely ignored by most scientists (from 1969 until 1977), thereafter for a period the initial Gaia hypothesis was criticized by a number of scientists, such as Ford Doolittle, Richard Dawkins and Stephen Jay Gould. Lovelock has said that because his hypothesis is named after a Greek goddess, and championed by many non-scientists, the Gaia hypothesis was interpreted as a neo-Pagan religion. Many scientists in particular also criticised the approach taken in his popular book \"Gaia, a New Look at Life on Earth\" for being teleological—a belief that things are purposeful and aimed towards a goal. Responding to this critique in 1990, Lovelock stated, \"Nowhere in our writings do we express the idea that planetary self-regulation is purposeful, or involves foresight or planning by the biota\".\n\nStephen Jay Gould criticised Gaia as being \"a metaphor, not a mechanism.\" He wanted to know the actual mechanisms by which self-regulating homeostasis was achieved. In his defense of Gaia, David Abram argues that Gould overlooked the fact that \"mechanism\", itself, is a metaphor — albeit an exceedingly common and often unrecognized metaphor — one which leads us to consider natural and living systems as though they were machines organized and built from outside (rather than as autopoietic or self-organizing phenomena). Mechanical metaphors, according to Abram, lead us to overlook the active or agential quality of living entities, while the organismic metaphorics of the Gaia hypothesis accentuate the active agency of both the biota and the biosphere as a whole. With regard to causality in Gaia, Lovelock argues that no single mechanism is responsible, that the connections between the various known mechanisms may never be known, that this is accepted in other fields of biology and ecology as a matter of course, and that specific hostility is reserved for his own hypothesis for other reasons.\n\nAside from clarifying his language and understanding of what is meant by a life form, Lovelock himself ascribes most of the criticism to a lack of understanding of non-linear mathematics by his critics, and a linearizing form of greedy reductionism in which all events have to be immediately ascribed to specific causes before the fact. He also states that most of his critics are biologists but that his hypothesis includes experiments in fields outside biology, and that some self-regulating phenomena may not be mathematically explainable.\n\nLovelock has suggested that global biological feedback mechanisms could evolve by natural selection, stating that organisms that improve their environment for their survival do better than those that damage their environment. However, in the early 1980s, W. Ford Doolittle and Richard Dawkins separately argued against Gaia. Doolittle argued that nothing in the genome of individual organisms could provide the feedback mechanisms proposed by Lovelock, and therefore the Gaia hypothesis proposed no plausible mechanism and was unscientific. Dawkins meanwhile stated that for organisms to act in concert would require foresight and planning, which is contrary to the current scientific understanding of evolution. Like Doolittle, he also rejected the possibility that feedback loops could stabilize the system.\n\nLynn Margulis, a microbiologist who collaborated with Lovelock in supporting the Gaia hypothesis, argued in 1999, that \"Darwin's grand vision was not wrong, only incomplete. In accentuating the direct competition between individuals for resources as the primary selection mechanism, Darwin (and especially his followers) created the impression that the environment was simply a static arena\". She wrote that the composition of the Earth's atmosphere, hydrosphere, and lithosphere are regulated around \"set points\" as in homeostasis, but those set points change with time.\n\nEvolutionary biologist W. D. Hamilton called the concept of Gaia Copernican, adding that it would take another Newton to explain how Gaian self-regulation takes place through Darwinian natural selection.\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis continues to be broadly skeptically received by the scientific community. For instance, arguments both for and against it were laid out in the journal \"Climatic Change\" in 2002 and 2003. A significant argument raised against it are the many examples where life has had a detrimental or destabilising effect on the environment rather than acting to regulate it. Several recent books have criticised the Gaia hypothesis, expressing views ranging from \"... the Gaia hypothesis lacks unambiguous observational support and has significant theoretical difficulties\" to \"Suspended uncomfortably between tainted metaphor, fact, and false science, I prefer to leave Gaia firmly in the background\" to \"The Gaia hypothesis is supported neither by evolutionary theory nor by the empirical evidence of the geological record\". The CLAW hypothesis, initially suggested as a potential example of direct Gaian feedback, has subsequently been found to be less credible as understanding of cloud condensation nuclei has improved. In 2009 the Medea hypothesis was proposed: that life has highly detrimental (biocidal) impacts on planetary conditions, in direct opposition to the Gaia hypothesis.\n\nIn a recent book-length evaluation of the Gaia hypothesis considering modern evidence from across the various relevant disciplines the author, Toby Tyrrell, concluded that: \"I believe Gaia is a dead end. Its study has, however, generated many new and thought provoking questions. While rejecting Gaia, we can at the same time appreciate Lovelock's originality and breadth of vision, and recognise that his audacious concept has helped to stimulate many new ideas about the Earth, and to champion a holistic approach to studying it\". Elsewhere he presents his conclusion \"The Gaia hypothesis is not an accurate picture of how our world works\". This statement needs to be understood as referring to the \"strong\" and \"moderate\" forms of Gaia—that the biota obeys a principle that works to make Earth optimal (strength 5) or favourable for life (strength 4) or that it works as a homeostatic mechanism (strength 3). The latter is the \"weakest\" form of Gaia that Lovelock has advocated. Tyrrell rejects it. However, he finds that the two weaker forms of Gaia—Coeveolutionary Gaia and Influential Gaia, which assert that there are close links between the evolution of life and the environment and that biology affects the physical and chemical environment—are both credible, but that it is not useful to use the term \"Gaia\" in this sense.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "255742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255742", "title": "George Reeves", "text": "George Reeves\n\nGeorge Reeves (January 5, 1914 – June 16, 1959) was an American actor. He is best known for his role as Superman in the 1950s television program \"Adventures of Superman\".\n\nHis death at age 45 from a gunshot remains a polarizing topic; the official finding was suicide, but some believe that he was murdered or the victim of an accidental shooting.\n\nReeves was born George Keefer Brewer on January 5, 1914, in Woolstock, Iowa, the son of Donald Carl Brewer and Helen Lescher. Reeves was born five months into their marriage and the couple separated soon after Reeves's birth. At this time, Reeves and his mother moved from Iowa to her home of Galesburg, Illinois.\n\nLater, Reeves's mother, who was of German descent, moved to California to stay with her sister. There she met and married Frank Joseph Bessolo while Reeves's father married Helen Schultz in 1925. Reeves reportedly never saw his father again. In 1927, Frank Bessolo adopted George as his own son, and the boy took on his stepfather's last name, becoming George Bessolo. The Bessolo marriage lasted 15 years, ending in divorce, with the couple separating while Reeves was away visiting relatives. When he returned, his mother told him his stepfather had committed suicide.\n\nAccording to biographer Jim Beaver, Reeves did not know for several years that Bessolo was still alive. Reeves began acting and singing in high school and continued performing on stage as a student at Pasadena Junior College.\n\nWhile studying acting at the Pasadena Playhouse, Reeves met his future wife, Ellanora Needles. They married on September 22, 1940, in San Gabriel, California, at the Church of Our Savior. They had no children and divorced 10 years later.\n\nReeves's film career began in 1939 when he was cast as Stuart Tarleton (incorrectly listed in the film's credits as Brent Tarleton), one of Scarlett O'Hara's suitors in \"Gone with the Wind\". It was a minor role, but he and Fred Crane were in the film's opening scene. (Reeves and Crane both dyed their hair red to portray the Tarleton twins.) Reeves was contracted to Warner Brothers soon after being cast. Warner changed his professional name to George Reeves. His \"Gone with the Wind\" screen credit reflects the change. Between the start of \"Gone With the Wind\" production and its release 12 months later, several films on his Warner contract were made and released, making \"Gone With the Wind\" his first film role, but his fifth film release.\n\nHe starred in a number of two-reel short subjects and appeared in several B-pictures, including two with Ronald Reagan and three with James Cagney (\"Torrid Zone\", \"The Fighting 69th\", and \"The Strawberry Blonde\"). Warner loaned him to producer Alexander Korda to co-star with Merle Oberon in \"Lydia\", a box-office failure. Released from his Warner contract, he signed a contract at Twentieth Century-Fox, but was released after only a handful of films, one of which was the Charlie Chan movie \"Dead Men Tell\". He freelanced, appearing in five Hopalong Cassidy westerns before director Mark Sandrich cast Reeves as Lieutenant John Summers opposite Claudette Colbert in \"So Proudly We Hail!\" (1942), a war drama for Paramount Pictures.\n\nReeves was drafted into the U.S. Army in early 1943. He was assigned to the U.S. Army Air Forces and performed in the USAAF's Broadway show \"Winged Victory\". The long Broadway run was followed by a national tour and a movie version. Reeves was then transferred to the Army Air Forces' First Motion Picture Unit, where he made training films.\n\nDischarged at the war's end, Reeves returned to Hollywood. However, many studios were slowing down their production schedules, and some production units had shut down completely. He appeared in a pair of outdoor thrillers with Ralph Byrd and in a serial produced by Sam Katzman, \"The Adventures of Sir Galahad\". Reeves fit the rugged requirements of the roles and, with his retentive memory for dialogue, he did well under rushed production conditions. He was able to play against type and starred as a villainous gold hunter in a Johnny Weissmuller Jungle Jim film. Separated from his wife (their divorce became final in 1950), Reeves moved to New York City in 1949. He performed on live television anthology programs, as well as on radio, and then returned to Hollywood in 1951 for a role in a Fritz Lang film, \"Rancho Notorious\".\n\nIn 1953, Reeves played a minor character, Sergeant Maylon Stark, in \"From Here To Eternity\". The film won the Academy Award for Best Picture, and gave Reeves the distinction of appearing in two \"Best Picture\" films.\n\nIn June 1951, Reeves was offered the role of Superman in a new television series titled \"Adventures of Superman\". He was initially reluctant to take the role because, like many actors of his time, he considered television unimportant and believed few would see his work. The half-hour films were shot on tight schedules; at least two shows were made every six days. According to commentaries on the \"Adventures of Superman\" DVD sets, multiple scripts would be filmed simultaneously to take advantage of the standing sets so that, for example, all the \"Perry White's office\" scenes for three or four episodes would be shot the same day and the various \"apartment\" scenes would be done consecutively.\n\nReeves's career as Superman had begun with \"Superman and the Mole Men\", a film intended both as a B-picture and as the pilot for the TV series. Immediately after completing it, Reeves and the crew began production of the first season's episodes, all shot over 13 weeks in the summer of 1951. The series went on the air the following year, and Reeves was amazed at becoming a national celebrity. In 1952, the struggling ABC Network purchased the show for national broadcast, which gave him greater visibility.\n\nThe Superman cast members had restrictive contracts which prevented them from taking other work that might interfere with the series. Except for the second season, the Superman schedule was brief (13 shows shot two per week, a total of seven weeks out of a year), but all had a \"30-day clause\", which meant that the producers could demand their exclusive services for a new season on four weeks' notice. This prevented long-term work on major films with long schedules, stage plays which might lead to a lengthy run, or any other series work.\n\nReeves, however, earned additional income from personal appearances. He had affection for his young fans, and took his role model status seriously. He avoided cigarettes where children could see him and eventually quit smoking. He kept his private life discreet. Nevertheless, he had a romantic relationship with a married ex-showgirl eight years his senior, Toni Mannix, wife of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer general manager Eddie Mannix.\n\nIn the documentary \"\", Jack Larson described how when he first met Reeves he told him that he enjoyed his performance in \"So Proudly We Hail!\" According to Larson, Reeves said that if Mark Sandrich had not died, he would not be there in \"this monkey suit\". Larson said it was the only time he heard Reeves say anything negative about being Superman.\n\nBetween the first and second seasons of \"Superman\", Reeves got sporadic acting assignments in one-shot TV anthology programs and in two feature films, \"Forever Female\" (1953) and Fritz Lang's \"The Blue Gardenia\" (1953), but by the time the series was airing nationwide, Reeves found himself so associated with Superman and Clark Kent that it was difficult for him to find other roles.\n\nReeves worked tirelessly with Toni Mannix to raise money to fight myasthenia gravis. He served as national chairman for the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation in 1955. During the second season, Reeves appeared in a short film for the Treasury Department entitled \"Stamp Day for Superman\", in which he caught the villains and told children why they should invest in government savings stamps.\nAfter two seasons, Reeves was dissatisfied with his salary and the show's one-dimensional role. He was 40 years old and wished to quit and move on with his career. The producers looked elsewhere for a new star, allegedly contacting Kirk Alyn, the actor who had first portrayed Superman in the original movie serials and who had initially refused to play the role on television.\n\nReeves established his own production company and conceived a TV adventure series called \"Port of Entry\" which would be shot on location in Hawaii and Mexico, writing the pilot script himself. However, \"Superman\" producers offered him a salary increase and he returned to the series. He was reportedly making $5,000 (about $50,000 in 2018 dollars) per week, but only while the show was in production (about eight weeks each year). As for \"Port of Entry\", Reeves was never able to gain financing for the project, and the show was never made.\n\nIn 1957, the producers considered a theatrical film \"Superman and the Secret Planet\". A script was commissioned from David Chantler, who had written many of the TV scripts. In 1959, however, negotiations began for a renewal of the series, with 26 episodes scheduled to go into production. (John Hamilton, who had played Perry White, died in 1958, so the former film-serial Perry White Pierre Watkin was to replace him.)\n\nBy mid 1959, contracts were signed, costumes refitted, and new teleplay writers assigned. Noel Neill was quoted as saying that the cast of \"Superman\" was ready to do a new series of the still-popular show.\n\nAttempting to showcase his versatility, Reeves sang on the Tony Bennett show in August 1956. He appeared as Superman on \"I Love Lucy\" (Episode #165, \"Lucy and Superman\") in 1957. Character actor Ben Welden had acted with Reeves in the Warner Bros. days and frequently guest-starred on \"Superman\". He said, \"After the \"I Love Lucy\" show, Superman was no longer a challenge to him... I know he enjoyed the role, but he used to say, 'Here I am, wasting my life.'\" His good friend Bill Walsh, a producer at Disney Studios, gave Reeves a prominent role in \"Westward Ho the Wagons!\" (1956), in which Reeves wore a beard and mustache. It was to be his final feature film appearance.\n\nReeves, Noel Neill, Natividad Vacío, Gene LeBell, and a trio of musicians toured with a public appearance show from 1957 onward. The first half of the show was a \"Superman\" sketch in which Reeves and Neill performed with LeBell as a villain called \"Mr. Kryptonite\" who captured Lois Lane. Kent then rushed offstage to return as Superman, who came to the rescue and fought with the bad guy. The second half of the show was Reeves out of costume and as himself, singing and accompanying himself on the guitar. Vacio and Neill accompanied him in duets.\n\nReeves and Toni Mannix split in 1958, and Reeves announced his engagement to society playgirl Leonore Lemmon. Reeves was apparently scheduled to marry Lemmon on June 19 and then spend their honeymoon in Tijuana. He complained to friends, columnists, and his mother of his financial problems. The planned revival of \"Superman\" was apparently a small lifeline. Reeves had also hoped to direct a low-budget science-fiction film written by a friend from his Pasadena Playhouse days, and he had discussed the project with his first Lois Lane, Phyllis Coates, the previous year. However, Reeves and his partner failed to find financing, and the film was never made. Another Superman stage show was scheduled for July with a planned stage tour of Australia. Reeves had options for making a living, but those options apparently all involved playing Superman again—a role that he was not eager to reprise at age 45.\n\nJack Larson and Noel Neill both remembered Reeves as a noble Southern gentleman (even though he was from Iowa) with a sign on his dressing room door that said \"Honest George, the people's friend\". Reeves had been made a \"Kentucky Colonel\" during a publicity trip in the South, and the sign on his dressing room door was replaced with a new one that read \"Honest George, also known as Col. Reeves\", created by the show's prop department. A photo of a smiling Reeves and the sign appears in Gary Grossman's book about the show.\n\nReeves died of a gunshot wound to the head in the upstairs bedroom of his home in Benedict Canyon between 1:30 and 2:00 a.m. on June 16, 1959, according to the Los Angeles Police Department report. The police arrived within the hour. Present in the house at the time of the incident were Leonore Lemmon (Reeves's fiancée), William Bliss, writer Robert Condon, and Carol Van Ronkel, who lived a few blocks away with her husband, screenwriter Rip Van Ronkel.\n\nAccording to these witnesses, Lemmon and Reeves had been dining and drinking earlier in the evening in the company of writer Condon, who was ghostwriting an autobiography of prizefighter Archie Moore. Reeves and Lemmon had an argument at the restaurant in front of Condon, and the three of them returned home. However, Lemmon stated in interviews with Reeves's biographer Jim Beaver that she and Reeves had not accompanied friends to the restaurant but rather to wrestling matches. Contemporaneous news items indicate that Reeves's friend Gene LeBell was wrestling that night—yet LeBell's own recollections are that he did not see Reeves after a workout session earlier in the day.\n\nSometime near midnight, after Reeves had gone to bed, an impromptu party began when Bliss and Carol Van Ronkel arrived at the Reeves home. Reeves angrily came downstairs and complained about the noise. After blowing off steam, he stayed with the guests for a while, had a drink, and then returned upstairs again in a bad mood. The guests later heard a single gunshot from upstairs. Bliss ran upstairs into Reeves's bedroom and found him lying across the bed dead, his naked body facing upward and his feet on the floor. It is believed that this corroborated Reeves's sitting position on the edge of the bed when he allegedly shot himself, after which his body fell back on the bed and the .30 caliber (7.65×21mm) Luger pistol fell between his feet.\n\nStatements made by the witnesses to the police and to the press essentially agree. Neither Leonore Lemmon nor other guests who were at the scene made any apology for their delay in calling the police after hearing the fatal gunshot that killed Reeves; the shock of the death, the lateness of the hour, and their state of intoxication were given as reasons for the delay. Police said that all of the witnesses present were extremely inebriated and that coherent stories were very difficult to obtain from them.\n\nIn contemporary news articles, Lemmon attributed Reeves's alleged suicide to depression caused by his \"failed career\" and inability to find more work. The report made by the Los Angeles Police states, \"[Reeves was]... depressed because he couldn't get the sort of parts he wanted.\" Newspapers and wire-service reports quoted LAPD Sergeant V.A. Peterson as saying: \"Miss Lemmon blurted, 'He's probably going to go shoot himself.' A noise was heard upstairs. She continued, 'He's opening a drawer to get the gun.' A shot was heard. 'See there—I told you so!'\"'\n\nThe official story given by Lemmon to the police placed her in the living room with party guests at the time of the shooting, but hearsay statements from Reeves's friend and colleague from \"Gone With The Wind\" Fred Crane put Leonore Lemmon either inside or in direct proximity to Reeves's bedroom. According to Crane (who was not present), Bill Bliss had told Millicent Trent after the shot rang out, while Bliss was having a drink, that Leonore Lemmon came downstairs and said, “Tell them I was down here, tell them I was down here!”\n\nA number of questionable physical findings were reported by investigators and others: No fingerprints were recovered from the gun. No gunpowder residue was found on Reeves's hands. (Some sources contend that it may not have been looked for, as gunshot residue testing was not routinely performed in 1959.) The bullet that killed Reeves was recovered from the bedroom ceiling, and the spent shell casing was found under his body. Two additional bullets were discovered embedded in the bedroom floor. All three bullets had been fired from the weapon found at Reeves's feet, though all witnesses agreed they heard only one gunshot, and there was no sign of forced entry or other physical evidence that a second person was in the room. Despite the unanswered questions, Reeves's death was officially ruled a suicide, based on witness statements, physical evidence at the scene, and the autopsy report.\n\nReeves's mother thought the ruling premature and peremptory, and retained attorney Jerry Giesler to petition for a reinvestigation of the case as a possible homicide. The findings of a second autopsy, conducted at Giesler's request, were the same as the first, except for a series of bruises of unknown origin about the head and body. A month later, having uncovered no evidence contradicting the official finding, Giesler announced that he was satisfied that the gunshot wound had been self-inflicted, and withdrew.\n\nReeves is interred at Mountain View Cemetery and Mausoleum in Altadena, California. In 1960, Reeves was awarded a star on Hollywood's Walk of Fame on Hollywood Boulevard for his contributions to the TV industry. In 1985, he was posthumously named one of the honorees by DC Comics in the company's 50th anniversary publication \"Fifty Who Made DC Great\".\n\nActors Alan Ladd and Gig Young were reportedly skeptical of the official determination. Reeves's friend Rory Calhoun told a reporter, \"No one in Hollywood believed the suicide story.\" In their book \"Hollywood Kryptonite\", Sam Kashner and Nancy Schoenberger make a case for the involvement of Toni Mannix, the wife of MGM vice president and fixer Eddie Mannix, with whom Reeves had been having an affair. Others suggested that Eddie Mannix—rumored to have mafia ties—ordered Reeves killed.\nThe 2006 film \"Hollywoodland\", starring Ben Affleck as Reeves and Adrien Brody as a fictional investigator loosely based on actual detective Milo Speriglio, dramatizes the investigation of Reeves's death. The film suggests three possible scenarios: accidental shooting by Lemmon, murder by an unnamed hitman under orders from Eddie Mannix, and suicide.\n\nToni Mannix suffered from Alzheimer's disease for years and died in 1983. In 1999, Los Angeles publicist Edward Lozzi said that Toni Mannix had confessed to a Catholic priest in Lozzi's presence that she was responsible for having Reeves killed. (This was following the resurrection of the Reeves case by TV shows \"Unsolved Mysteries\" and \"Mysteries and Scandals\".) Lozzi made the statement on TV tabloid shows, including \"Extra\", \"Inside Edition\", and \"Court TV\". In the wake of \"Hollywoodland\"s publicity in 2006, Lozzi repeated his story to the tabloid \"The Globe\" and to the \"LA Times\", where the statement was disputed by Jack Larson. Larson stated that facts which he knew from his close friendship with Toni Mannix precluded Lozzi's story from being true. According to Lozzi, he lived with and then visited the elderly Mannix from 1979 to 1982 and on at least a half-dozen occasions he called a priest when Mrs. Mannix feared death and wanted to confess her sins. Mannix suffered from Alzheimer's disease and senile dementia, but Lozzi says that her confession was made during a period of lucidity in Mannix's home before she was moved from her house to a hospital. Mannix lived in a hospital suite for the last several years of her life, having donated a large portion of her estate to the hospital in exchange for perpetual care. Lozzi also told of Tuesday night prayer sessions that Toni Mannix conducted with him and others at an altar shrine to Reeves that she had built in her home. Lozzi stated, \"During these prayer sessions she prayed loudly and trance-like to Reeves and God, and without confessing yet, asked them for forgiveness.\" Lozzi's statement, however, is unsupported by independent evidence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2918999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2918999", "title": "Gunshot residue", "text": "Gunshot residue\n\nGunshot residue (GSR), also known as cartridge discharge residue (CDR), \"gunfire residue\" (GFR), or firearm discharge residue (FDR), is residue deposited on the hands and clothes of someone who discharges a firearm. It is principally composed of burnt and unburnt particles from the explosive primer, the propellant—and possibly fragments of the bullet, cartridge case, and the firearm.\n\nLaw enforcement investigators test the clothing and skin of people for GSR to determine if they were near a gun when it discharged. Gunshot residue can travel over 3–5 feet (0.9–1.5 meters) from the gun. At the farthest distance, only a few trace particles may be present.\n\nIn 1971 John Boehm presented some micrographs of GSR particles found during the examination of bullet entrance holes using a scanning electron microscope. If the scanning electron microscope is equipped with an energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy detector, the chemical elements present in such particles, mainly lead, antimony and barium, can be identified.\n\nIn 1979 Wolten et al. proposed a classification of GSR based on composition, morphology, and size. Four compositions were considered \"characteristic\":\nThe authors proposed some rules about chemical elements that could also be present in these particles.\n\nWallace and McQuillan published a new classification of the GSR particles in 1984. They labeled as \"unique\" particles those that contain lead, antimony, and barium, or that contain antimony and barium. Wallace and McQuillan also maintained that these particles could contain only some chemical elements.\n\nIn the latest ASTM Standard Guide for GSR analysis by Scanning Electron Microscopy/Energy Dispersive X-ray Spectrometry (SEM-EDX) particles containing lead, antimony and barium, and respecting some rules related to the morphology and to the presence of other elements are considered characteristic of GSR. The most definitive method to determine whether a particle is characteristic of or consistent with GSR is by its elemental profile. An approach to the identification of particles characteristic of or consistent with GSR is to compare the elemental profile of the recovered particulate with that collected from case-specific known source items, such as the recovered weapon, Cartridge cases or victim-related items whenever necessary. This approach was called ‘‘case by case’’ by Romolo and Margot in an article published in 2001. In 2010 Dalby et al. published the latest review on the subject and concluded that the adoption of a \"case by case\" approach to GSR analysis must be seen as preferable, in agreement with Romolo and Margot.\n\nIn light of similar particles produced from extraneous sources, both Mosher et al. (1998) and Grima et al. (2012) presented evidence of pyrotechnic particles that can be mistakenly identified as GSR. Both publications highlight that certain markers of exclusion and reference to the general population of collected particulate can help the expert in designating GSR-similar particles as firework-sourced.\n\nParticle analysis by scanning electron microscope equipped with an energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy detector is the most powerful forensic tool that investigators can use to determine a subject's proximity to a discharging firearm or contact with a surface exposed to GSR (firearm, spent cartridge case, target hole). Test accuracy requires procedures that avoid secondary gunshot residue transfer from police officers onto subjects or items to be tested, and that avoid contamination in the laboratory.\n\nThe two main groups of specialists currently active on gunshot residue analysis are the Scientific Working Group for Gunshot Residue (SWGGSR) based in USA and the ENFSI EWG Firearms/GSR Working Group based in Europe.\n\nA positive result for GSR from SEM-EDX analysis can mean many things. Mainly it indicates that the person sampled was either in the vicinity of a gun when it was fired, handled a gun after it was fired, or touched something that was around the gun when it was fired. (For example: When a person goes to the aid of a victim of a gunshot wound, some GSR particles can transfer from the victim.)\n\nA negative result can mean that the person was nowhere near the gun when it was fired, or that they were near it but not close enough for GSR to land on them, or it can mean that the GSR deposited on them wore off. GSR is the consistency of flour and typically only stays on the hands of a living person for 4–6 hours. Wiping the hands on anything, even putting them in and out of pockets can transfer GSR off the hands. Victims don't always get GSR on them; even suicide victims can test negative for GSR.\n\nIf the ammunition used was specifically tagged in some way by special elements, it is possible to know the cartridge used to produce the GSR. Inference about the source of GSR can be based on the examination of the particles found on a suspect and the population of particles found on the victim, in the firearm or in the cartridge case, as suggested by the ASTM Standard Guide for GSR analysis by Scanning Electron Microscopy/Energy Dispersive X-ray Spectrometry. Advanced analytical techniques such as Ion Beam Analysis (IBA), carried out after Scanning Electron Microscopy, can support further information allowing to infer about the source of GSR particles. Christopher et al. showed as the grouping behaviour of different makes of ammunition can be determined using multivariate analysis. Bullets can be matched back to a gun using comparative ballistics.\n\nOrganic gunshot residue can be analysed by analytical techniques such as chromatography, capillary electrophoresis, and mass spectrometry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56713972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56713972", "title": "HMS Cormorant (1804)", "text": "HMS Cormorant (1804)\n\nHMS \"Cormorant was probably launched in 1803 at Howden Pans as the merchant ship Blenheim\". The Admiralty purchased her in June and the Royal Navy took her into service to use her as a convoy escort. Then in 1809 it converted her into a storeship. After the Admiralty sold her in 1817, she resumed the \"Blenheim \" name and returned to mercantile service as a West Indiaman. She disappeared after 10 November 1821 and was presumed to have foundered.\n\n\"Blenehim\", of 327 tons (bm), only enters the \"Register of Shipping\" in 1806. It gives her master as Lamb, her owner as Hurry & Co., and her trade as Shields–London. She does not appear in \"Lloyd's Register\".\n\nThe Admiralty purchased \"Blenheim\" in June 1804. \"Blenheim\" underwent surveying by Perry & Co., Blackwall, between 26 May and 8 June 1804. The Admiralty purchased her in June, and she then underwent fitting at Woolwich between 8 June and 30 July.\n\nIn June Commander James Stewart commissioned \"Cormorant\" for the North Sea. On 20 August 1805 \"Cormorant\" captured \"Liefde\". \"Cormorant\" sent \"Liefde\", Geret, master, into Yarmouth. \"Liefde\" had been sailing from Husum to amsterdam.\n\n\"Lloyd's List\" reported on 23 August that \"Cormorant\" had sent into Yarmouth \"Vrow Jan___\". She had been carrying a cargo of indigo to Embden.\n\nIn October 1805 Commander John Phillimore replaced Stewart.\n\nOn 11 March 1806 \"Cormorant\" and were in company at the capture of \"Minerva\". Phillimore left \"Cormorant\" in October, and Commander William Hughes replaced him.\n\nOn 13 February 1807 \"Cormorant\" recaptured the brig \"Hope\". The French privateer lugger \"Revanche\", of Cherbourg, had captured \"Hope\", Blake, master, off Dunnose, Isle of Wight, that day as \"Hope\" was returning to London from Madeira. \"Hope\" arrived at Portsmouth within the day.\n\nHughes sailed \"Cormorant\" in March 1807 to the Cape of Good Hope. On 26 January 1808 she captured the Dutch East Indiaman \"Marianne\". \"Cormorant\" sent \"Marian\", Kofoed, master, into the Cape on 8 February. She had been sailing from Batavia to Copenhagen. The Vice admiralty court at the Cape condemned \"Marianne\" and remitted £40,000 to the Registry of the High Court of Admiralty in London.\n\n\"Cormorant\" also detained and sent into the Cape three American vessels:\n\nBetween October 1808 and July 1809 \"Cormorant\" underwent fitting as a storeship. She was recommissioned in April.\n\nHowever, \"Lloyd's List\" reported on 24 March 1809 that the sloop-of-war \"Cormorant\" had detained \"Batavia\", sailing from Rochelle to New York. \"Batavia\"s crew regained possession of her, but then the letter of marque detained \"Batavia\" again. \"Irlam\" came into Liverpool, from where she went on to Barbados. A later report credited with the first capture, not \"Cormorant\", and reported that \"Batavia\"s master, cook, and steward had recaptured \"Batavia\", this time from \"Irlam\"s prize crew, and had taken \"Batavia\" into New York, her original destination.\n\nIn 1813 Mr. W. Kirby was \"Cormorant\"s master. He sailed her to the Cape in company with , which was sailing to the East Indies. On the way, on 11 June, they boarded \"Ainsley\", Brown, master, which was returning to Liverpool from Africa.\n\n\"Cormorant\" returned to Portsmouth on 18 December. She had sailed from the Cape on 5 September, and from Saint Helena on 23 October. She had been in company with a number of whalers and other vessels, including .\n\nIn 1814 \"Cormorant\" sailed to Newfoundland. In 1815 Mr. T. Hodgson became her master.\n\nDisposal: The \"Principal Officers and Commissioners of His Majesty's Navy\" offered the \"Cormorant storeship, of 328 tons\", lying at Chatham, for sale on 3 April 1817. She finally sold to Moates, at Chatham, for £1450 on 4 December 1817.\n\n\"Blenheim\" reentered \"Lloyd's Register\" in 1818 with Souter, master, S. Moates, owner, and trade London–Honduras. A tremendous gale hit the southeast coast of England on 5 March, damaging or even wrecking many vessels. \"Blenheim\", Souter, master, bound for Honduras, was blown out of The Downs.\n\nThe \"Register of Shipping\" for 1823 showed \"Blenheim\" with Webster, master, S. Moats, owner, and trade Bristol–Jamaica. \"Lloyd's List\" reported on 26 March 1822 that \"Blenheim\", \"late Webster\", master, had departed from Annato Bay, Jamaica, on 1o November 1821 for London. There was on further trace of her and she was presumed to have foundered with the loss of all hands.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "1494654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1494654", "title": "Hamstringing", "text": "Hamstringing\n\nHamstringing is a method of crippling a person or animal so that they cannot walk properly by severing the hamstring tendons in the thigh of the individual. It is used as a method of torture, or to incapacitate the victim.\n\nHamstringing is used primarily to incapacitate a human or animal and render them incapable of effective movement. The severing of the hamstring muscles results not only in the crippling of the leg, but also in tremendous pain common to heavy laceration.\n\nIn humans, the hamstring extends between the hip and knee joints. The hamstring muscle group is made up of the biceps femoris, semitendinosus muscle, and the semimembranosus. It facilitates both the flexing of the knee and hip extension, making it a vital contributor to normal leg movement. By severing these muscles or the tendons involved in this process, normal leg movement is disrupted. In addition to sustaining massive bleeding, the injured leg becomes useless and the victim is rendered lame. The severing of the hamstring is usually accomplished through use of a blade such as a knife or sword.\n\nDue to a lack of research in the field of critical hamstring injuries, the current injury management is quite limited. Management of the injury is based solely \"on clinical experience, anecdotal evidence and the knowledge of the biological basis of tissue repair.\" These injuries are difficult to control or repair, leading often to permanent injury or even death by exsanguination.\n\nSources from late antiquity indicate that hamstringing was commonly used to incapacitate combatants and prisoners.\n\nLiterally, to \"hamstring\" an individual is to sever the tissues of their hamstring. As a metaphor to be \"hamstrung\" suggests being limited, by external imposition or not, in a way that prevents full freedom of movement or utilization of resources.\n\nRendering chariot horses lame by hamstringing is mentioned in the Bible, called \"houghing\" in the King James Version, from an old spelling of \"hock\". In the Bible, this is seen as a positive use of hamstringing because it prevents the horses from being used in warfare.\n"}
{"id": "5446270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5446270", "title": "Henry Ryan Haney", "text": "Henry Ryan Haney\n\nHenry Ryan Haney (1835 – November 17, 1878) was an Ontario physician and political figure. He represented Monck in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as a Liberal member from 1872 to 1878.\n\nHe served as coroner for Welland. He was first elected to the provincial legislature in an 1872 by-election after the sitting member, Lachlin McCallum, resigned when it became illegal for members to sit in both the House of Commons of Canada and the Ontario legislature. Haney was reelected in 1875 but unseated on appeal; he was elected in the by-election that followed and represented Monck until his death in 1878.\n\n"}
{"id": "35169892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35169892", "title": "Human rights abuses in Kashmir", "text": "Human rights abuses in Kashmir\n\nKashmir has been a disputed and divided territory with human rights abuses in both the section administered by India (Jammu and Kashmir) and that administered by Pakistan (Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan). \nThe dispute began in 1947 with the partition of the British Indian Empire into India and Pakistan.\n\nThe Line of Control (LOC) is a military control line between Indian and Pakistani-controlled parts of Kashmir. The line does not constitute a legally international boundary but it is a de facto border, designated in 1948 as a cease-fire line, it divided Kashmir into two parts and closed the Jehlum valley route, the only entrance of the Kashmir Valley. This territorial division which, to this day still exists severed many villages and separated family members from each other. The landmines planted by the Army alongsides of the line have killed scores of innocent people and left thousands as disabled. Without compensation, these disabled persons in the Indian Kashmir are fighting for the survival.\n\nDuring 2008 Kashmir unrest, the Hindu extremist groups and the supporters of Bharatiya Janata Party blocked the Srinagar-Jammu National highway (NH 1A). The only national highway which connects Kashmir Valley to the rest of India remained closed for several days and stopped the supply of essential commodities. In response to the blockade, on 11 August 2008, under the leadership of Sheikh Abdul Aziz, 50,000 to 2,50,000 Kashmiri protesters attempted to cross the Line of Control to Muzaffarabad. The protesters were stopped at Uri which resulted in killing of fifteen people and hundreds injured when police and Indian paramilitary forces fired on them. A slogan raised by the protesters was, \"Khooni lakir tod do aar paar jod do\" (Break down the blood-soaked Line of Control let Kashmir be united again).\n\nHuman rights abuses in Jammu and Kashmir, a disputed territory administered by India, are an ongoing issue. The allegations range from mass killings, forced disappearances, torture, rape and sexual abuse to political repression and suppression of freedom of speech. Many number of massacres have taken place in the region since 1990. The Indian Army, Central Reserve Police Force, Border Security personnel and various militant groups have been accused and held accountable for committing severe human rights abuses against Kashmiri civilians. A WikiLeaks issue accused India of systemic human rights abuses, it stated that US diplomats possessed evidence of the apparent widespread use of torture by Indian police and security forces.\n\nIn September 1990 the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act was enacted in Jammu and Kashmir after passing in the Parliament of India to handle the rise in . Human rights group Amnesty claim that the special powers under (AFSPA) gives the security force immunity from alleged violations committed, and condemn it. United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Navanethem Pillay has urged India to repeal AFSPA and to investigate the disappearances in Kashmir.\n\nOn 26 February 2009 the Chief Minister stated the act should be repealed, the security forces however said that revoking the act would be detrimental to security and help terrorist moral, though the militancy has declined the act is still in force International NGO's as well as the US state department have documented excesses such as disappearances, torture and arbitrary executions carried out during India's counter terrorism operations.\n\nHuman rights watch has also accused the Indian security forces of using children as spies and messengers, India army have targeted reporters and human rights activists, they have also been accused of committing over 200 rapes in an attempt to intimidate the local population. Wikileaks cables are reported to contain material stating that the International Committee of the Red Cross briefed US officials in India, alleging that India \"condoned\" torture and that \"sexual penetration\" formed part of the maltreatment of victims. The ICRC alleged that of the 1296 detainees interviewed, 681 had reported of being tortured. Of those, 304 individuals complained of sexual torture/abuse.\n\nIn 2005 Médecins Sans Frontières conducted a survey in Kashmir which found that the number of people who had witnessed a rape in Kashmir since 1989 was comparably far higher than the number of people who had witnessed a rape in other conflict zones such as Chechnya and Sri Lanka. The survey found that 13% of respondents had witnessed rape and 11.6% of the interviewees had themselves been victims of sexual abuse since 1989. Dr Seema Kazi states that rapes committed by Indian security forces outstrips the rapes committed by militants in both scale and frequency. Professor William Baker stated at the 52nd United Nations Commission on Human Rights that rape in Kashmir was an active strategy of the Indian forces to humiliate Kashmiri people.\n\nIn April 2002, authorities in Indian-administered Kashmir arrested three Indian paramilitary soldiers following the gang rape of 17-year-old girl. In July 2011, there were anti-India protests in Srinagar against the alleged rape of a 25-year-old village woman in the village of Manzgam.\n\nIn October 2011, the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir apologised for the release of names, parentages and addresses of 1400 rape victims. However, no details were revealed as to whether the rapes were by security forces, militants or part of crime. Liaquat Ali Khan, an academic writer considers that these excesses in Kashmir do not have official sanction but are easy to commit because of the powers, to cordon and search villages and suburbs, that are vested to security forces by the law. The authorities use association with terrorists to discredit the testimony of the victims, in case the association is established. The security forces have carried out extrajudicial killings, assaults and other human rights violations. An investigation by the Jammu and Kashmir state human rights commission has found 2730 bodies in unmarked graves at 38 sites in northern Kashmir. At least 574 of these were identified as being local people.\n\nThe rapes by Islamic militants have been reported since the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947. On 22 October 1947, Pashtun militants invaded Baramulla in a Pakistan army truck, and raped women including European nuns. In March 1990, the wife of a BSF inspector was kidnapped, tortured and gang-raped for many days. Then her body with broken limbs was abandoned on a road. On April 14, 1990, a Kashmiri Pandit nurse from the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences in Srinagar was gang-raped and then beaten to death by terrorists. Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) took responsibility for the crime, accusing Bhat of informing the police about the presence of militants in the hospital. On 6 June 1990, a lab assistant at the Government Girls High School Trehgam, was kidnapped and gang raped for many days. Then she was sliced at a sawmill.\n\nPrana Ganjoo was abducted with her husband in Sopore. She was gang-raped for a number of days before the both were killed in November 1990.\n\nSince 1991, reports of rape by Islamic militants have increased, and there have been many cases of the militants threatening to kill the family unless a woman is handed over to the militants. According to the HRW, the rape victims of militants suffer ostracism and there is a \"code of silence and fear\" that prevents people from reporting such abuse. According to the HRW, the investigation of case of rape by militants is difficult because many Kashmiris are reluctant to discuss it for the fear of violent reprisals.\nThe increase in number of rape cases has resulted in an increased number of abortions, leading to one case of murder of doctor. The doctor was accused of being an informer by the Islamic groups Hezb-ul Mujahidin and Al Jehad.\nIn January 1991, a women was forcibly asked to \"marry\" a militant. Her brother was killed when the family refused, and the girl was taken away.\nOn 30 March 1992, armed militants demanded food and shelter from the family of the retired truck driver in Nai Sadak, Kralkhud. The family complied, but the militants killed the owner and raped his daughter and wife. Then both the women were also shot dead.\nAnother women was forced to marry the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen commander Farooq Ansari in Kishtwar in 2000. In 2005, a 14-year-old Gujjar girl was abducted from Lurkoti village by the Lashkar-e-Taiba militants, and forced to marry one of them. She was gang-raped by her \"husband\" and his militant friends. In December 2005, 15-year-old of Bajoni (Doda district) was forced to marry a Hizb-ul-Mujahideen militant, after her family was threatened with death. Periodic reports by Amnesty, International Commission of Jurists, Human Rights Watch and the US state department have documented massive human rights violations by militant groups supported by Pakistan.\n\nDuring the eruption of militancy in Kashmir valley, terrorism by majority sect has specifically targeted the Hindu Kashmiri Pandits minority and violated their human rights. Reports by Indian government state 219 Kashmiri pandits were killed and around 140,000 migrated due to militancy while over 3000 stayed in the valley. Reports from Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and the International Commission of Jurists confirmed Indian reports of systematic human rights violations by Pakistan-backed militants.\n\nAccording to a report published by \"Asia Watch\": \n\nAccording to a resolution passed by the United States Congress in 2006, Islamic terrorists infiltrated the region in 1989 and forced most of the Kashmiri Pandits to flee Kashmir. According to the report, the population of Kashmiri Pandits in Kashmir had declined from 400,000 in 1989 to 4,000 in 2011.\n\nThese groups targeted the Hindus in the Kashmir valley forcing an estimated 100,000 to flee.\n\nThe Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front have been accused of ethnic cleansing by using murder, arson and rape as a weapon of war to drive out hundreds of thousands of Pandits from the region. On 25 January 1998, 23 Kashmiri Pandits, including nine women and four young children living in the village of Wandhama, were killed by unknown persons wearing the uniforms of Indian Army soldiers, who had tea with them, waiting for a radio message indicating that all Pandit families in the village had been covered. Thereafter, they rounded up all the members of the Hindu households and then summarily gunned them down with Kalashnikov rifles.\n\nHindu civilians have been subjected to rape and murder perpetrated by members of terrorist organisations like the JKLF and the Hizbul Mujahideen. Muslim civilians who are considered political opponents of terrorists or those who are believed to be informers have also been raped or murdered.\n\nPakistan, an Islamic Republic, imposes multiple restrictions on peoples' religious freedom. Religious minorities also face unofficial economic and societal discrimination and have been targets of sectarian violence.\nThe constitution of Azad Kashmir specifically prohibits activities that may be prejudicial to the state's accession to Pakistan, and as such regularly suppresses demonstrations against the government. A number of Islamist militant groups operate in this area including Al-Qaeda, with tacit permission from Pakistan's intelligence. \n\nThere have been allegations of human rights abuse. A report titled \"Kashmir: Present Situation and Future Prospects\", which was submitted to the European Parliament by Emma Nicholson, Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne, was critical of the lack of human rights, justice, democracy, and Kashmiri representation in the Pakistan National Assembly. According to the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, Pakistan's Inter Services Intelligence operates in Pakistan-administered Kashmir and is involved in extensive surveillance, arbitrary arrests, torture, and murder. Generally this is done with impunity and perpetrators go unpunished. The 2008 report by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees determined that Pakistan-administered Kashmir was 'Not free'. According to Shaukat Ali Kashmiri, chairman of the International Kashmir Alliance, \"On one hand Pakistan claims to be the champion of the right of self-determination of the Kashmiri people, but she has denied the same rights under its controlled parts of Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan\".\n\nIn December 2009, activists of nationalist Kashmiri groups staged a protest in Muzaffarabad to condemn the alleged rigging of elections and killing of an 18-year-old student during the elections. The killing had led to widespread protests in the district.\n\nLarge protests erupted during the February 2012 Kohistan Killings where 18 people were ordered off from a bus and killed by gunmen on the Islamabad-Gilgit route. The act drew condemnation from the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.\n\nThe main demand of the people of Gilgit-Baltistan is a constitutional status to the region as a fifth province of Pakistan. However, Pakistan claims that Gilgit-Baltistan cannot be given constitutional status due to Pakistan's commitment to the 1948 UN resolution. In 2007, International Crisis Group stated that \"Almost six decades after Pakistan's independence, the constitutional status of the Federally Administered Northern Areas (Gilgit and Baltistan), once part of the former princely state of Jammu and Kashmir and now under Pakistani control, remains undetermined, with political autonomy a distant dream. The region's inhabitants are embittered by Islamabad's unwillingness to devolve powers in real terms to its elected representatives. The rise of sectarian extremism is an alarming consequence of this denial of basic political rights\". A two-day conference on Gilgit-Baltistan was held on 8–9 April 2008 at the European Parliament in Brussels under the auspices of the International Kashmir Alliance. Several members of the European Parliament expressed concern over the human rights violation in Gilgit-Baltistan and urged the government of Pakistan to establish democratic institutions and rule of law in the area.\nIn 2009, the Pakistan government implemented an autonomy package for Gilgit-Baltistan which entails rights similar to those of Pakistan’s other provinces. Gilgit-Baltistan thus gains province-like status without actually being conferred such a status constitutionally. The direct rule by Islamabad is replaced by an elected legislative assembly and its chief minister.\nThere has been criticism and opposition to this move in Pakistan, India, and Pakistan administrated Kashmir. The move has been dubbed as an eyewash to hide the real mechanics of power, which allegedly are under the direct control of the Pakistani federal government. The package was opposed by Pakistani Kashmiri politicians who claimed that the integration of Gilgit-Baltistan into Pakistan would undermine their case for the independence of Kashmir from India. 300 activists from Kashmiri groups protested during the first Gilgit-Baltistan legislative assembly elections, with some carrying banners reading \"Pakistan's expansionist designs in Gilgit-Baltistan are unacceptable\". However, many people of Gilgit-Baltistan oppose integration into Kashmir. They want their region to be merged into Pakistan as a separate province.\n\n"}
{"id": "24937705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24937705", "title": "Jean's Way", "text": "Jean's Way\n\nJean's Way (originally subtitled A Love Story), a book by Derek Humphry, is an account of Humphry's terminally ill wife's planned suicide from suffering. The book is his first on the issue of voluntary euthanasia and assisted suicide.\n\nDerek Humphry, a journalist on the \"London Sunday Times\" and author of \"Because They're Black\", published \"Jean's Way\" in 1978. The book became a bestseller in the UK, was translated into eight languages, and has been reprinted 17 times.+\n\nThe 2003 printing in English by Norris Lane Press () is 160 pages and includes a new full-color jacket and updated preface. The 2003 English edition is available in paperback and eBook PDF formats.\n\n\"Jean's Way\" translations have been published in Norway, Japan, Poland, Spain, Mexico, France, Turkey and Germany.\n\nJean Humphry was born Jean Edna Crane on March 23, 1932, in Hulme (Manchester), UK. Her family moved to Wythenshawe, a Manchester suburb, where Jean received a public school education. In 1951 Miss Crane was appointed 'Miss Wythenshawe', a volunteer task ceremoniously to open fetes, flower shows and exhibitions as the district had no Mayor. On May 4, 1953, Jean married Derek Humphry in Manchester. They had three sons, one adopted. She died March 29, 1975, in Langley Burrell, Wiltshire, as a consequence of breast cancer which had become carcinomatosis.\n\nAt the time of the first publication's first edition, not only was assisted suicide against the law, it was also highly taboo.\n\nJean Humphry had suffered for more than two years from breast cancer, which spread throughout her whole body, as described in the first nine chapters. She decided it was her time for an assisted death, and proceeded with her plan so that she could die in peace and dignity in her own home rather than in hospital. This was an individual decision; the couple did not know then (1975) about euthanasia and assisted suicide, which later became highly controversial as the right to die issue mushroomed. Living Wills were then just becoming known.\n\nSome nine months earlier, the couple had made a pact at Jean's instigation that she could take her life if she wished if the final weeks were unbearable to her. Jean had stipulated that she would only do it with Derek's agreement.\n\nAt Jean's request, Derek secured a lethal overdose from a sympathetic doctor and stored it in a secure place in their home in Wiltshire. When the pain and distress became too great to bear, Jean asked for the drugs so that she could die. When she was ready, Derek mixed the lethal potion into a mug of coffee. After saying, \"Goodbye, my love\" Jean downed the drink and died within the hour.\n\nIn Chapter 10, \"Is This the Day?\", Derek describes her last day before her death.\n\nOn publication of the book, British police asked Derek if it was true, and he signed a statement to the effect that it was. But the Director of Public Prosecutions, who has discretion over assisted suicide laws, decided not to prosecute Derek.\n\nThe popularity of \"Jean's Way\" started the movement to legalize assisted suicide as a choice for competent adults at the end of life. (Previously, the movement had concentrated solely on 'voluntary euthanasia' by direct injection.)\n\nDerek founded the Hemlock Society in 1980 to campaign for greater acceptance of justifiable assisted suicide and also wrote the international bestselling book \"Final Exit\".\n\nIn 1990, \"Jean's Way\" became the basis for a dramatic stage play entitled \"Is This the Day?\" written by Vilma Hollingbery. It had its world premiere at the Royal Theatre in Northampton, UK, and had short runs in Germany and the USA.\n\nThe book foreshadowed the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, which Derek pioneered in 1986 and as a team player worked for its eventual passage in 1994. In the application of both Oregon law and Swiss law, with legally approved ways of assisting deaths at the end of life, Jean's Way is the method used. In Switzerland it is used by Dignitas and EXIT, the Swiss society for humane dying.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1343925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343925", "title": "Johnny Douglas", "text": "Johnny Douglas\n\nJohn William Henry Tyler Douglas (3 September 1882 – 19 December 1930) was an English cricketer who was active in the early decades of the twentieth century. Douglas was an all-rounder who played for Essex County Cricket Club from 1901 to 1928 and captained the county from 1911 to 1928. He also played for England and captained the England team both before and after the First World War with markedly different success. As well as playing cricket, Douglas was a notable amateur boxer who won the middleweight gold medal at the 1908 Olympic Games.\n\nDouglas was the son of John Herbert Douglas (1853-1930) and Julia Ann (née Tyler) and was born at Stoke Newington, London in what is now Belfast Road. He was educated at Moulton Grammar School and Felsted School and joined his father's wood-importing firm, which supported his amateur status in cricket and boxing. Douglas also played football once for the England amateur side (occasion unknown, through loss of records). He served in the Bedfordshire Regiment throughout World War I, eventually as major (acting lieutenant-colonel).\n\nIn 1908 Douglas won an Olympic gold medal as a middleweight boxer. All three of his bouts, including the final, described by The Times as \"one of the most brilliant exhibitions of skilful boxing, allied to tremendous hitting, ever seen.\", were held on the same day. The silver medal winner, Snowy Baker, 44 years later falsely claimed that Douglas's father was the sole judge and referee.\n\nBaker never publicly contested the close points verdict which Douglas, who scored a second-round knockdown over him and won in their Olympic final. Yet, in a 1952 interview, he claimed that Douglas’s father had refereed the fight, leading to widespread suspicion of a dodgy decision. In reality Douglas senior was at ringside, to present the medals, in his role as president of the Amateur Boxing Association of England (ABA). The real referee was Eugene Corri, who did not have to give a casting vote as the two judges agreed that Douglas was a narrow winner. Douglas Jr, his father and his younger brother, Cecil ('Pickles') were all prominent referees and officials in the ABA, the last also being the leading referee in the professional sport in the 1930s. Besides his Olympic gold, Douglas also won the 1905 ABA middleweight title.\n\n\nDouglas was an untiring fast-medium bowler and obdurate batsman who was nicknamed with a play on his initials JWHT \"Johnny Won't Hit Today\" by Australian hecklers. He captained the school teams at Felsted and was a member of Wanstead C.C. He played for Essex in 1902 and for London County in 1903. In 1904 he returned to Essex where he remained, captaining the side from 1911 to 1928. He played for England before and after the First World War. Douglas was named as a Wisden Cricketer of the Year in 1915, but play was suspended during the war years. After the war until 1923 had to carry Essex's bowling on his shoulders except when George Louden turned out. He took over 100 wickets in a season seven times with a best of 147 in 1920. The following year against Derbyshire he produced perhaps the most remarkable all-round performance in English first-class cricket history. After taking nine for 47, Douglas stopped a breakdown against Bill Bestwick with an unbeaten 210 that tired him so much he did not bowl until the end of Derbyshire's second innings. He then took two for none, giving him a match record of eleven for 47.\n\nDouglas captained England eighteen times, with a Test match record of won eight, lost eight, drawn two. Successful as stand-in captain in Australia in 1911, he won the series 4–1. On the 1920/21 tour of Australia he led a depleted post-war side which suffered a 0–5 'whitewash', a scoreline not repeated in an Ashes series until the 2006/7 England team lost by the same margin. Reappointed reluctantly by the M.C.C. in 1921, he lost the first two Tests at home to Warwick Armstrong's side and was displaced as captain but retained in the XI. He captained England in one further Test match, against South Africa in July 1924, and played his final Test on the 1924/25 England tour of Australia.\n\nDouglas married Evelyn Ruby (sister of two of his close wartime friends), the widow of Captain Thomas Elphinstone Case, of the Coldstream Guards, and daughter of Adolphus Ferguson, on 25 December 1916. He had no children but one stepson, the actor Gerald Case.\n\nHe drowned when the \"Oberon\", on which he and his father were travelling, was wrecked seven miles south of the Laeso Trindel Lightship, Denmark. It had collided with a sister-vessel in foggy weather when the two captains who were brothers were attempting to exchange Christmas greetings. According to a witness at the post mortem enquiry, Douglas may well have been trying to save his father. They had been purchasing timber in Finland. He was aged 48.\n\n"}
{"id": "37044520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37044520", "title": "Joseph F. Booton", "text": "Joseph F. Booton\n\nJoseph F. Booton (1897–?) was an American architect.\n\nHe was born in Urbana, Illinois in 1897 and he served in the U.S. Navy, before receiving a degree in architectural history from the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nA number of his works are listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places (NRHP).\n\nWorks include:\n"}
{"id": "29095970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29095970", "title": "Kraamzorg", "text": "Kraamzorg\n\nKraamzorg is a medical service in the Netherlands and Belgium where postnatal care is provided to a new mother and her baby in the initial eight to 10 days immediately after birth.\n\nThis support comes in the form of a qualified maternity nurse or health care professional, \"kraamverzorgster\", who comes to the home in order to provide care and instruction for the newborn. \"Kraamzorg\" is included in standard health insurance packages in the Netherlands; though, depending on specific policy, a small contribution for each hour of care is expected. \n\nThe \"kraamverzorgster's\" primary responsibility is to ensure that the mother's recovery is quick and efficient, and that the baby's development is evolving appropriately. Tasks usually adopted by the \"kraamverzorgster\" include, but are not limited to: flagging any issues that may arise between the new mother and midwife or doctor, ensuring the area in which the mother and the baby are in are clean and hygienic, ensuring that the mother is healing well after the birth, supporting the mother with feeding issues (whether this be breast or bottle feeding).\n\nInteraction with the \"kraamzorg\" organisation of choice begins in the thirty-fourth week of pregnancy. At this point, a chosen representative will visit the home and discuss what type of support is available depending on whether the mother is planning a home or hospital birth.\n\nThe hours of care each mother is entitled to vary, and can even change after birth. There are three levels of care: basic, minimal, and flexible, that translate into a specific number of daily hours of service depending the mother and the family's personal situation. Factors that can affect which level of care a mother is entitled to include: number of children already in the family, an unstable home situation, problems with breastfeeding, and illness in the family.\n\nThe \"kraamzorg\" organisation provides a list of items that should be in the home in order to prepare for the arrival of the child, and the company issues a file where mothers can track the day-to-day progress of their babies, as well as their own recovery. \n\nFamilies and mothers are encouraged to ask as many questions as possible in preparation for their first meeting with a representative from the \"kraamzorg\" organisation.\n\nA similar service, Kraamzorg UK, was launched in Manchester in 2013. \n\n"}
{"id": "44416015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44416015", "title": "Magnetic skyrmion", "text": "Magnetic skyrmion\n\nIn physics, magnetic skyrmions (occasionally described as 'vortices,' or 'vortex-like'\nconfigurations) are quasiparticles which have been predicted theoretically and observed experimentally in condensed matter systems. Skyrmions, named after British physicist Tony Hilton Royle Skyrme, can be formed in magnetic materials in their 'bulk' such as in MnSi, or in magnetic thin films. They can be achiral (Fig. 1 a), or chiral (Fig 1 b) in nature, and may exist both as dynamic excitations or stable or metastable states. Although the broad lines defining magnetic skyrmions have been established de facto, there exist a variety of interpretations with subtle differences.\n\nMost descriptions include the notion of topology - a categorization of shapes and the way in which an object is laid out in space - using a continuous-field approximation as defined in micromagnetics. Descriptions generally specify a non-zero, integer value of the topological index, (not to be confused with the chemistry meaning of 'topological index'). This value is sometimes also referred to as the winding number, the topological charge (although it is unrelated to 'charge' in the electrical sense), the topological quantum number (although it is unrelated to quantum mechanics or quantum mechanical phenomena, notwithstanding the quantization of the index values), or more loosely as the “skyrmion number.” The topological index of the field can be described mathematically as\n\nwhere formula_1 is the topological index, formula_2 is the unit vector in the direction of the local magnetization within the magnetic thin, ultra-thin or bulk film, and the integral is taken over a two dimensional space. (A generalization to a three-dimensional space is possible)..\nPassing to spherical coordinates for the space ( formula_3) and for the magnetisation ( formula_4), one can understand the meaning of the skyrmion number. In skyrmion configurations the spatial dependence of the magnetisation can be simplified by setting the perpendicular magnetic variable independent on the in-plane ones (formula_5) and the in-plane magnetic variable independent on the radius ( formula_6).\nThen the topological skyrmion number reads:\nwhere p describes the magnetisation direction in the origin (p=1 (-1) for formula_7) and W is the winding number.\nConsidering the same uniform magnetisation, i.e. the same \\textit{p} value, the winding number allows to define the skyrmion (formula_8) with a positive winding number and the antiskyrmion formula_9 with a negative winding number and thus a topological charge opposite to the one of the skyrmion.\n\nWhat this equation describes physically is a configuration in which the spins in a magnetic film are all aligned orthonormal to the plane of the film, with the exception of those in one, specific region, where the spins progressively turn over to an orientation that is perpendicular to the plane of the film but \"anti-parallel\" to those in the rest of the plane. Assuming 2D isotropy, the free energy of such a configuration is minimized by relaxation towards a state exhibiting circular symmetry, resulting in the configuration illustrated schematically (for a two dimensional skyrmion) in figure 1. In one dimension, the distinction between the progression of magnetization in a 'skyrmionic' pair of domain walls, and the progression of magnetization in a topologically trivial pair of magnetic domain walls, is illustrated in figure 2. Considering this one dimensional case is equivalent to considering a horizontal cut across the diameter of a 2-dimensional hedgehog skyrmion (fig. 1(a)) and looking at the progression of the local spin orientations.\nIt is worth observing that there are two different configurations which satisfy the topological index criterion stated above. The distinction between these can be made clear by considering a horizontal cut across both of the skyrmions illustrated in figure 1, and looking at the progression of the local spin orientations. In the case of fig. 1(a) the progression of magnetization across the diameter is cycloidal. This type of skyrmion is known as a 'hedgehog skyrmion.' In the case of fig. 1(b), the progression of magnetization is helical, giving rise to what is often called a 'vortex skyrmion.'\n\nThe skyrmion magnetic configuration is predicted to be stable because the atomic spins which are oriented opposite those of the surrounding thin-film cannot ‘flip around’ to align themselves with the rest of the atoms in the film, without overcoming an energy barrier. This energy barrier is often ambiguously described as arising from ‘topological protection.’ (See Topological Stability vs. Energy Stability).\n\nDepending on the magnetic interactions existing in a given system, the skyrmion topology can be a stable, meta-stable, or unstable solution when one minimizes the system's free energy.\n\nTheoretical solutions exist for both isolated skyrmions and skyrmion lattices. However, since the stability and behavioral attributes of skyrmions can vary significantly based on the type of interactions in a system, the word 'skyrmion' can refer to substantially different magnetic objects. For this reason, some physicists choose to reserve use of the term 'skyrmion' to describe magnetic objects with a specific set of stability properties, and arising from a specific set of magnetic interactions.\n\nIn general, definitions of magnetic skyrmions fall into 2 categories. Which category one chooses to refer to depends largely on the emphasis one wishes to place on different qualities. A first category is based strictly on topology. This definition may seem appropriate when considering topology-dependent properties of magnetic objects, such as their dynamical behavior. A second category emphasizes the \"intrinsic energy stability\" of certain solitonic magnetic objects. In this case, the energy stability is often (but not necessarily) associated with a form of chiral interaction, which might originate from the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya Interaction (DMI), or spiral magnetism originating from Double-exchange mechanism (DE) or competing Heisenberg exchange interaction.\nThe first set of definitions for magnetic skyrmions is a superset of the second, in that it places less stringent requirements on the properties of a magnetic spin texture. This definition finds a raison d'être because topology itself determines some properties of magnetic spin textures, such as their dynamical responses to excitations.\n\nThe second category of definitions may be preferred to underscore intrinsic stability qualities of some formula_14 magnetic configurations. These qualities arise from stabilizing interactions which may be described in several mathematical ways, including for example by using higher-order spatial derivative terms such as 2nd or 4th order terms to describe a field, (the mechanism originally proposed in particle physics by Tony Skyrme for a continuous field model),\n\nor 1st order derivative functionals known as Lifshitz invariants—energy contributions linear in first spatial derivatives of the magnetization—as later proposed by Alexei Bogdanov. (An example of such a 1st order functional is the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya Interaction).\nIn all cases the energy term acts to introduce topologically non-trivial solutions to a system of partial differential equations. In other words, the energy term acts to render possible the existence of a topologically non-trivial magnetic configuration that is confined to a finite, localized region, and possesses an intrinsic stability or meta-stability relative to a trivial homogeneously magnetized ground-state — i.e. a magnetic soliton. An example hamiltonian containing one set of energy terms that allows for the existence of skyrmions of the second category is the following:\n\\mathbf{M_{r}}\\cdot\\left(\\mathbf{M_{r+e_{x}}}+\\mathbf{M_{r+e_{y}}}\\right)\n-D\\sum_{\\mathbf{r}}\\left(\\mathbf{M_{r}}\\times\\mathbf{M_{r+e_{x}}}\\cdot\\mathbf{e_{x}}+\\mathbf{M_{r}}\\times\\mathbf{M_{r+e_{y}}}\\cdot\\mathbf{e_{y}}\\right)\n-A\\sum_{\\mathbf{rI}} M_{z\\mathbf{r}}^2\nwhere the first, second, third and fourth sums correspond to the exchange, Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya, Zeeman (responsible for the \"usual\" torques and forces observed on a magnetic dipole moment in a magnetic field), and magnetic Anisotropy (typically magnetocrystalline anisotropy) interaction energies respectively. Note that equation (2) does not contain a term for the dipolar, or 'demagnetizing' interaction between atoms. As in eq. (2), the dipolar interaction is sometimes omitted in simulations of ultra-thin '2 dimensional' magnetic films, because it tends to contribute a minor effect in comparison with the others.\n\nA non-trivial topology does not in itself imply energetic stability. There is in fact no necessary relation between topology and energetic stability. Hence, one must be careful not to confuse ‘topological stability,’ which is a mathematical concept, with energy stability in real physical systems. Topological stability refers to the idea that in order for a system described by a continuous field to transition from one topological state to another, a rupture must occur in the continuous field, i.e. a discontinuity must be produced. For example, if one wishes to transform a flexible balloon doughnut (torus) into an ordinary spherical balloon, it is necessary to introduce a rupture on some part of the balloon doughnut's surface. Mathematically, the balloon doughnut would be described as 'topologically stable.' However, in physics, the free energy required to introduce a rupture enabling the transition of a system from one ‘topological’ state to another is always \"finite\". For example, it is possible to turn a rubber ballon into flat piece of rubber by poking it with a needle (and popping it!). Thus, while a physical system can be \"approximately\" described using the mathematical concept of topology, attributes such as \"energetic\" stability are dependent on the system's parameters—the strength of the rubber in the example above—not the topology per se. In order to draw a meaningful parallel between the concept of topological stability and the energy stability of a system, the analogy must necessarily be accompanied by the introduction of a non-zero phenomenological ‘field rigidity’ to account for the finite energy needed to rupture the field’s topology. Modeling and then integrating this field rigidity can be likened to calculating a breakdown energy-density of the field. These considerations suggest that what is often referred to as ‘topological protection,’ or a 'topological barrier,' should more accurately be referred to as a 'topology-related energy barrier,' though this terminology is somewhat cumbersome. A quantitative evaluation of such a topological barrier can be obtained by extracting the critical magnetic configuration when the topological number changes during the dynamical process of a skyrmion creation event. Applying the topological charge defined in a lattice, the barrier height is theoretically shown to be proportional to the exchange stiffness.\n\nIt is important to be cognizant of the fact that magnetic formula_1 =1 structures are in fact not stabilized by virtue of their ‘topology,’ but rather by the field rigidity parameters that characterize a given system. However, this does not suggest that topology plays an insignificant role with respect to energetic stability. On the contrary, topology may create the \"possibility\" for certain stable magnetic states to exist, which otherwise could not. However, topology in itself does not \"guarantee\" the stability of a state. In order for a state to have stability associated with its topology, it must be further accompanied by a non-zero field rigidity. Thus, topology can be considered a necessary but insufficient condition for the existence of certain classes of stable objects. While this distinction may at first seem pedantic, its physical motivation becomes apparent when considering two magnetic spin configurations of identical topology formula_1 =1, but subject to the influences of only one differing magnetic interaction. For example, we may consider one spin configuration with, and one configuration without the presence of magnetocrystalline anisotropy, \"M.A.,\" oriented perpendicular to the plane of an ultra-thin magnetic film. In this case, the formula_1 =1 configuration that is influenced by the M.A. will be more energetically stable than the formula_1 =1 configuration without it, in spite of identical topologies. This is because the M.A. contributes to the field rigidity, and it is the field rigidity, not the topology, that confers the notable energy barrier protecting the topological state.\n\nFinally, it is interesting to observe that in some cases, it is not the topology which helps formula_1 =1 configurations to be stable, but rather the converse, as it is \"the stability of the field\" (which depends on the relevant interactions) which favors the formula_1 =1 topology. This is to say that the most stable energy configuration of the field constituents, (in this case magnetic atoms), may in fact be to arrange into a topology which can be described as an formula_1 =1 topology. Such is the case for magnetic skyrmions stabilized by the D.M. interaction, which causes adjacent magnetic spins to 'prefer' having a fixed angle between each other (energetically speaking). Note that from a point of view of practical applications this does not alter the usefulness of developing systems with D.M.I., as such applications depend strictly on the topology [of the skyrmions, or lack thereof], which encodes the information, and not the underlying mechanisms which stabilize the necessary topology.\n\nThese examples illustrate why use of the terms 'topological protection' or 'topological stability' interchangeably with the concept of energy stability is misleading, and is liable to lead to fundamental confusion.\n\nOne must exercise caution when making inferences based on topology-related energy barriers, as it can be misleading to apply the notion of topology—a description which only rigorously applies to \"continuous\" fields— to infer the energetic stability of structures existing in \"discontinuous\" systems. Giving way to this temptation is sometimes problematic in physics, where fields which are approximated as continuous become discontinuous below certain size-scales. Such is the case for example when the concept of topology is associated with the micromagnetic model—which assimilates the magnetic texture of a system to a continuous field—and then applied indiscriminately without consideration of the model's physical limitations (i.e. that it ceases to be valid at atomic dimensions). In practice, treating the spin textures of magnetic materials as vectors of a continuous field model becomes inaccurate at size-scales on the order of < 2 nm, due to the discretization of the atomic lattice. Thus, it is not meaningful to speak of magnetic skyrmions below these size-scales.\n\nMagnetic skyrmions are anticipated to allow for the existence of discrete magnetic states which are significantly more energetically stable (per unit volume) than their single-domain counterparts. For this reason, it is envisioned that magnetic skyrmions may be used as bits to store information in future memory and logic devices, where the state of the bit is encoded by the existence or non-existence of the magnetic skyrmion. The dynamical magnetic skyrmion exhibits strong breathing which opens the avenue for skyrmion-based microwave applications.\nSimulations also indicate that the position of magnetic skyrmions within a film/nanotrack may be manipulated using spin currents or spin waves. Thus, magnetic skyrmions also provide promising candidates for future racetrack-type in-memory logic computing technologies.\n"}
{"id": "27148752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27148752", "title": "Making Europe Unconquerable", "text": "Making Europe Unconquerable\n\nMaking Europe Unconquerable is a book about how civilian-based defense can be incorporated into the foundations of European defense and collective security. Written by Gene Sharp, the book was originally published in the United Kingdom and United States in 1985. Its subtitle was \"the potential of civilian-based deterrence and defense\". The book was reviewed in major newspapers, magazines, and professional journals. Although it advocated a significant departure from existing defense policies, it received a favorable review from George F. Kennan, widely perceived as one of the major architects of the US approach to the cold war. Later in the same year, the book was republished with a foreword from Kennan. It has also been published in Dutch and Italian editions.\n\nIn its opening pages, \"Making Europe Unconquerable\" states that \n\n\"Making Europe Unconquerable\" contains 7 chapters entitled\nThe book also contains a bibliography (12 pages) and an index (24 pages).\n\nReviews have appeared in the \n\"New York Review of Books\", the \"New York Times\", the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\", \"Foreign Affairs\", \"International Affairs\", \"Journal of Peace Research\", and elsewhere.\n\nIn the \"New York Review of Books\", George F. Kennan, widely viewed as a major architect of the US approach to the cold war, wrote that Sharp's \"primary purpose in writing the book was... 'to make civilian-based deterrence and defense a thinkable policy which is recognized as meriting further research, policy studies, and an evaluation.' And for this, he makes a reasonably good case.\" Kennan stated that \"the view advanced in this book deserves consideration, if only because of the bankruptcy of all the visible alternatives to it.\" Kennan viewed Sharp's approach as requiring\n\nKennan wondered \"whether, if this change in political philosophy were to take place, it might not have wider effects than just those that relate to the concepts of national security—whether many other things might not also change, and, in the main, usefully so,\" and advised that Sharp\nIn the \"New York Times\", Karl E. Meyer described the book as \"reflective,\" and stated that \"there is considerable merit to <nowiki>[Sharp's]</nowiki> contention that 'all peoples can with effort make themselves politically indigestable to would-be tyrants.'\" Meyer also argued that Sharp's approach \"has its flaws... If the stakes are deemed sufficiently vital, civilian resistance seems unlikely to dissuade a determined aggressor.\"\n\nIn \"Foreign Affairs\", Andrew Pierre wrote that \n\nHe added that \"The author's proposals go against the grain of mainstream thinking, and to this reviewer leave many questions unanswered, but they are carefully put forward in a nonpolemical manner and clearly merit sustained attention and thought\" (p. 873).\n\n\"Ted Taylor\", himself a former designer of nuclear weapons, reviewed the book in the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\". He quoted Einstein:\n\nHe added that \"The side effects of pursuing a civilian-based defense strategy are especially interesting, since they tend to be beneficial in peacetime. This is a book that should be read attentively by anyone seriously searching for new ways of thinking about how we can stop our \"drift toward unparalleled catastrophe.\" (p. 56).\n\nEnglish language editions:\n\nForeign (non-English) language editions:\n\n"}
{"id": "46259202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46259202", "title": "Maria Vicenta Rosal", "text": "Maria Vicenta Rosal\n\nBlessed María Vicenta Rosal Vásquez (26 October 1815 - 24 August 1886) - in religious María de la Encarnación del Corazón de Jesús) was a Guatemalan Roman Catholic professed religious and a professed member from the Bethlemite Sisters. Rosal was an advocate of women's education and protection which proved to be a cause that was significant in view of the machismo culture that was pervasive in the region at the time.\n\nHer beatification was celebrated in Rome in mid-1997; she is the first female Guatemalan to be beatified.\n\nMaría Vicenta Rosal Vásquez was born on 26 October 1820 in Quetzaltenango to Manuel Encarnación Rosal (25 March 1791 - 30 May 1851) and Leocadia Gertrudis Benitez Vásquez (December 9 1782 - 13 March 1846). Her mother was married with three children before being widowed in 1816 and later becoming a wife once more this time to Rosal on 18 November 1822. Her elder sister was Ana de la Soledad and an older brother was Isidro. Rosal was baptized on 27 October 1820 in her local parish of Espíritu Santo and she later received her Confirmation on 23 January 1840 in that same church.\n\nYouth saw her attending galas and she did demonstrate vain tendencies on occasion which would cause her to receive reprimands from her elder sister Ana de la Soledad. Rosal was reminded that she had to fulfil her baptismal promises and Rosal accepted this and clarified she would change upon turning 20. Rosal soon befriended the Honduran girl Manuela Arbizú and the two spoke of the religious life as well as the Bethlemite Sisters whom her new friend had mentioned. The mentioning of this religious order piqued her interest and she soon dove into learning about them; she consulted with her parents and her confessor and soon decided to go to the convent to become a member of that order.\n\nOn 11 December 1837 she departed her home for the convent alongside her father and her brother Isidro as well as her friend Manuela and before entering the order visited the Santa Catalina and Santa Teresa monasteries as well as that of a Capuchin convent; her father did not like the excessive stops and wanted his daughter to be more decisive as to where to go. Rosal entered the Bethlemite Sisters on 1 January 1838 and assumed the new religious name of \"María de la Encarnación del Corazón de Jesús\" and she later made her vows on 26 January 1840. She received the habit on 16 July 1838 from the last Bethlemite priest Martín de San José. Her first confessor was Father Urbano Ugarte who had supported her entrance into the religious life. Rosal was frustrated with the religious standards the Bethlemites lived with but despite her frustration was appointed as the prioress of her convent in 1855. In that role she attempted to restore dedication to the original religious standards of her order and the resulting rancor with established members of her order caused her to found a new convent of the Bethlemite Sisters in Quetzeltenango in 1851. Her second confessor around this stage was the Jesuit priest Ignacio Taboada.\n\nRosal's progress at reform in Quetzeltenango was interrupted when Justo Rufino Barrios became the nation's president and began expelling members of religious orders. Rosal was exiled from Guatemala as a result of this and in 1877 founded the first school for women in Carthage in Costa Rica and also at Heredia not to far from there. But religious persecution spread to Costa Rica in due course and Rosal fled to Colombia where she established an orphanage and a refuge for women in Pasto. Rosal settled for one final time this time in Ecuador where she established convents for the Bethlemite Sisters in Tulcán and in Otavalo. Rosal busied herself with the revision of the constitutions and the planning of new convents as well as her determination to better organize it and direct their efforts to its charism and work.\n\nRosal died on 24 August 1886 at 5:00am in Ecuador due to an accident horseback riding as she travelled between religious institutions. The nun decided to go on a trip with other nuns for their work and the accident then occurred not long after resulting in her death from her sustained injuries. Her remains are interred in Pasto and are incorrupt.\n\nThe beatification process commenced in Pasto in an informative process that spanned from 14 March 1951 until its closure in 1952; there were fourteen witnesses all up that were interviewed with eight of those people having known her. Eight members of the faithful were interviewed as were five Bethlemite nuns and one diocesan priest. Her writings received full approval from theologians on 18 April 1955 after it was confirmed her spiritual writings were all in line with official doctrine. The formal introduction to the cause on 5 April 1976 under Pope Paul VI and she became titled as a Servant of God. The Congregation for the Causes of Saints validated the informative process on 3 July 1992 in Rome and later received the Positio from the postulation in 1993. Historians approved the cause's direction on 9 March 1993 while theologians approved the cause on 11 November 1994 as did the C.C.S. on 7 February 1995. Pope John Paul II confirmed that Rosal lived a life of model heroic virtue and thus named her as Venerable on 6 April 1995.\n\nThe miracle for beatification was investigated and then received C.C.S. validation on 10 June 1994 before a board of medical experts approved it on 11 January 1996. The theologians also approved this on 16 April 1996 as did the C.C.S. on 2 July 1996 before John Paul II issued his final approval to this miracle on 17 December 1996 - the miracle in question was a 1975 healing from Colombia. John Paul II beatified Rosal on 4 May 1997 in Saint Peter's Square.\n\n"}
{"id": "18753856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18753856", "title": "Maternity hospital", "text": "Maternity hospital\n\nA maternity hospital specializes in caring for women during pregnancy and childbirth. It also provides care for newborn infants, and may act as a centre for clinical training in midwifery and obstetrics. Formerly known as lying-in hospitals, most of them, like cottage hospitals, have been absorbed into larger general hospitals, where they operate as the maternity department.\n\nMaternity hospitals in the United Kingdom can be traced back to a number of 18th century establishments in London and Dublin. Prior to these foundations, childbirth was a domestic occasion. The term coined for these establishments, but now archaic, is \"a lying-in hospital\", referring to the custom of lying-in, prolonged bedrest after childbirth, better known now as postpartum confinement.\n\nThe first noted lying-in hospital appears to be one founded by Sir Richard Manningham in Jermyn Street, London, in 1739 and which evolved into the Queen Charlotte's Maternity Hospital. A better documented foundation is that of the Dublin Lying-In Hospital, established in 1745 by Bartholomew Mosse, and which served as a model for three subsequent London foundations: the British Lying-In Hospital, a 1749 establishment in Holborn; the 1750 City of London Lying-In Hospital, in the City; and the General Lying-In Hospital on Westminster Bridge Road, established in 1767. A number of other such hospitals were formed in the mid-18th century. All of these were run by male physicians, women being blocked from completing training as doctors until the 1870s. \n\nThe first maternity hospital founded and run by a woman was Elizabeth Garrett Anderson's New Hospital for Women, which evolved from an existing dispensary in the 1770s, and was renamed in 1918 the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Hospital. Its work continues in the modern Elizabeth Garrett Anderson maternity wing of University College Hospital, part of UCLH NHS Foundation Trust.\n\nThe Portland Hospital in central London was created in 1983 as a private hospital, i.e. not part of the National Health Service. Also in 1983, the Rosie Hospital opened in Cambridge, next to Addenbrooke's Hospital.\n\nThe National Maternity Hospital, Dublin is the largest mother-and-baby hospital in Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "16633363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16633363", "title": "Max Falstein", "text": "Max Falstein\n\nSydney Max Falstein (30 May 1914 – 18 May 1967) was an Australian politician.\n\nFalstein was born on 30 May 1914 at Coffs Harbour to Russian grazier Abram Max Falstein and German-born Rosa, née Goldman. He attended Sydney Boys' High (1926–27) and Sydney Grammar schools, and later studied for a Bachelor of Arts and a law degree at the University of Sydney. On 13 March 1937 he married nurse Ila Brenda Greig at Darlinghurst, and was thus estranged from his Jewish mother. He spent several years in New Zealand before returning to Australia; he was admitted to the New South Wales Bar in 1940.\n\nFalstein was first involved in politics in New Zealand, where he was an organiser for the New Zealand Labour Party. In Australia, he was elected to the Australian House of Representatives in 1940 for the seat of Watson, representing the Australian Labor Party. In parliament he became associated with Arthur Calwell and others who opposed John Curtin's leadership. After Curtin became Prime Minister, Falstein openly clashed with him over issues concerning the Royal Australian Air Force in 1944.\n\nFalstein had enlisted in the RAAF on 18 July 1942; he was convicted of using insubordinate language to a superior in September of that year and was sentenced to twenty-eight days detention. He qualified as a pilot and completed an operational tour from 1944 to 1945 in the south-west Pacific.\n\nAfter the war Falstein became involved in business. He was convicted of falsifying documents to understate imported wristwatches' value in 1948 and fined. Consequently, the ALP did not endorse him for Watson in the 1949 election. He contested the seat unsuccessfully as an independent and was expelled from the Labor Party. His only further political acts were to support Menzies' Communist Party dissolution attempt; a marked anti-communist, he had nevertheless supported the recognition of Communist China.\n\nFalstein was declared bankrupt on 12 August 1958; his appeals to the courts failed. He returned to the bar in 1961. In his final years he suffered from hypertension and diabetes, and he died on 18 May 1967 of cerebral thrombosis at Concord. He was survived by his wife, a daughter, and three of his four sons.\n"}
{"id": "17801445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17801445", "title": "Mieszko Bolesławowic", "text": "Mieszko Bolesławowic\n\nMieszko Bolesławowic (c. 1069–1089) was the only son of Bolesław II the Generous, King of Poland. Mieszko was Prince of Cracow from 1086 until his death in 1089.\n\nMieszko was, in all likelihood, born in Cracow sometime around or during A.D. 1069. He was the eldest son of the king of Poland Bolesław II the Bold and his wife Wyszeslawa. According to the Chronicler Gallus Anonymus, Mieszko was being groomed for the responsibilities of a monarch from an early age. At the age of ten, his father, Bolesław, was deposed by a rebellion led by his brother, Władysław I Herman. Mieszko was forced to leave his country and his education behind and seek refuge at the friendly court of Ladislaus I of Hungary. The king of Hungary was apparently very fond of young Mieszko and treated him like a son.\n\nFollowing the death of his father in 1081, Mieszko remained in Hungary until 1086 when he is known to have returned to his homeland. There are two conflicting versions explaining the circumstances of this return. Chronicler Gallus Anonymus simply states that Mieszko was peacefully summoned to Poland by his uncle Władysław I Herman. It is likely that this was facilitated by a deal between Ladislaus I of Hungary and Władysław I Herman. Another version, publicized by a Hungarian chronicler, claims that in 1086 Ladislaus I of Hungary invaded the Kingdom of Poland, took control of Cracow, and installed Mieszko as its ruler.\n\nThough there is no direct primary source evidence for this, notes in Cracow almanacs strongly suggest that during the years 1086 - 1089 Mieszko was prince of Cracow. However, sometime during this time he accepted over-lordship of his uncle Wladyslaw I Herman, and gave up his hereditary claim to the crown of Poland in exchange for becoming first in line to succeed him. It is also during this time (1088) that he married a Turov princess (from Ruthenia) Euphraxia of Turov, a daughter of Izyaslav I and Gertrude of Poland.\n\nAccording to Gallus Anonymus the young prince was poisoned during a feast on orders of palatine Sieciech (who as Gallus Anonymus wrote wanted to \"kill off the entire Piast dynasty\") in Cracow in 1089. The death of Mieszko, the rightful pretender to the throne, allowed Władysław to strengthen his rule over Poland; Sieciech, after failed attempts to kill all of Władysław's sons, would be exiled.\n"}
{"id": "1019096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019096", "title": "Moral nihilism", "text": "Moral nihilism\n\nMoral nihilism (also known as ethical nihilism, amoralism or the error theory) is the meta-ethical view that nothing is morally right or wrong.\n\nMoral nihilism is distinct from moral relativism, which allows for actions wrong relative to a particular culture or individual. It is also distinct from expressivism, according to which when we make moral claims, \"We are not making an effort to describe the way the world is [...] we are venting our emotions, commanding others to act in certain ways, or revealing a plan of action.\". \n\nNihilism does not imply that we should give up using moral or ethical language; some nihilists contend that it remains a useful tool.\n\nMoral nihilists agree that all claims such as 'murder is morally wrong' are false. But different nihilistic views differ in two ways.\n\nSome may say that such claims are neither true nor false; others say that they are all false.\n\nNihilists differ in the \"scope\" of their theories. Error theorists typically claim that it is only distinctively moral claims which are false; practical nihilists claim that there are no reasons for action of any kind; some nihilists extend this claim to include reasons for belief.\n\nJ. L. Mackie argues that moral assertions are only true if there are moral properties, but because there are none, all such claims are false.\n\nOther versions of the theory claim that moral assertions are not true because they are neither true nor false. This form of moral nihilism claims that moral beliefs and assertions \"presuppose\" the existence of moral facts that do not exist. Consider, for example, the claim that the present king of France is bald. Some argue that this claim is neither true nor false because it presupposes that there is currently a king of France, but there is not. The claim suffers from \"presupposition failure\". Richard Joyce (2001) argues for this form of moral nihilism under the name \"fictionalism\".\n\nError theory is built on three principles:\n\n\nThus, we always lapse into error when thinking in moral terms. We are trying to state the truth when we make moral judgments. But since there is no moral truth, all of our moral claims are mistaken. Hence the error. These three principles lead to the conclusion that there is no moral knowledge. Knowledge requires truth. If there is no moral truth, there can be no moral knowledge. Thus moral values are purely chimerical.\n\nThe most prominent argument for nihilism is the argument from queerness.\n\nJ. L. Mackie argues that there are no objective ethical values, by arguing that they would be queer (strange):\"If there were objective values, then they would be entities or qualities or relations of a very strange sort, utterly different from anything else in the universe\"For all those who also find such entities queer (\"prima facie\" implausible), there is reason to doubt the existence of objective values.\n\nIn his book \"Morality without Foundations: A Defense of Ethical Contextualism\" (1999), Mark Timmons provides a reconstruction of Mackie's views in the form of the two related arguments. These are based on the rejection of properties, facts, and relationships that do not fit within the worldview of philosophical naturalism, the idea \"that everything—including any particular events, facts, properties, and so on—is part of the natural physical world that science investigates\" (1999, p. 12). Timmons adds, \"The undeniable attraction of this outlook in contemporary philosophy no doubt stems from the rise of modern science and the belief that science is our best avenue for discovering the nature of reality\" (1999, pp. 12–13).\n\nThere are several ways in which moral properties are supposedly queer:\n\nChristine Korsgaard (1996) responds to Mackie by saying: \n\nOther criticisms of the argument include noting that for the very fact that such entities would have to be something fundamentally different from what we normally experience—and therefore assumably outside our sphere of experience—we cannot \"prima facie\" have reason to either doubt or affirm their existence; therefore, if one had independent grounds for supposing such things to exist (such as, for instance, a \"reductio ad absurdum\" of the contrary) then the argument from queerness cannot give one any particular reason to think otherwise. An argument along these lines has been provided by e.g. Akeel Bilgrami (2006).\n\nGilbert Harman argued that we do not need to posit the existence of objective values in order to explain our 'moral observations'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11924041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11924041", "title": "Murder of Jessie Davis", "text": "Murder of Jessie Davis\n\nJessie Marie Davis (May 27, 1981 – June 14, 2007) was a murdered, near-term pregnant, 26-year-old American woman first reported missing from her home in Lake Township, Stark County, Ohio on June 15, 2007. The case drew an extraordinary response from the American media. On February 15, 2008, Bobby Lee Cutts Jr., the father of her 2-year-old son and unborn daughter, was convicted of the aggravated murders of Davis and their unborn child. He was sentenced to life in prison without parole for 57 years on February 27, 2008. A high-school friend of Cutts, Myisha Lynne Ferrell, was also later charged.\n\nDavis was last seen shopping at Acme Fresh Market, a local grocery store. Her mother reported her missing on June 15, 2007, when she found her 2-year-old grandson Blake home alone, with bleach spilled on the floor and furniture broken and overturned. In televised reports, Davis' mother (who had last spoken with her daughter two days earlier) reported that Blake kept stating, \"Mommy broke the table\" and \"Mommy's in the rug\". At the time of her disappearance, Davis was a resident of Lake Township in Stark County, Ohio.\n\nA search of the area involving \"thousands of volunteers\" including members of Texas EquuSearch, was launched. On June 23, Davis' body was recovered in a wooded area in neighboring Summit County, in Hampton Hills Metro Park—a park surrounded by, but distinct from Cuyahoga Valley National Park, in the vicinity of Cuyahoga Falls.\n\nThe first reliable website to pin down the widely reported rumor that Cutts had assisted in locating the body of Davis was that of \"America's Most Wanted\": \"AMW sources have confirmed that Bobby Cutts Jr., Jessie's boyfriend and the father of her 2-year-old son Blake, led law enforcement to the body.\"\n\nThe post-mortem was performed by the Summit County authorities, as this is where the body was recovered. Her body was reported to be in an \"advanced state of decomposition\". The autopsy was performed the following day, confirming her identity. Investigators believe Davis was murdered on June 14, but confirmation of this, as well as the precise means of death, await the results of forensic tests. Bob Budgake, director of the Stark-Summit County crime lab, indicated that the lab was \"working overtime and weekends to process evidence from the Jessie Davis case, two other recent murders and other investigations.\"\n\nA single-casket funeral for Jessie and her daughter was held June 30 at the House of the Lord, with a subsequent interment at Greenlawn Memorial Park. The arrangements were handled by the Silva-Hostetler Funeral Home, both in the Akron area. Although members of the Cutts family attended, Davis' son Blake did not. The family \"felt the toddler had already been through enough.\" Approximately 750 people attended the service.\n\nThe service was also streamed online on local news stations' websites so people who could not attend could still see the service.\n\nHer mother, Patricia Porter, said at the service that her daughter had been a committed God-fearing person after doing overseas missionary work, but at some point \"she took a wrong turn somewhere.\"\n\nPorter said her daughter realized in church a few weeks ago that she needed to reform her life.\n\nPrior to the funeral, hundreds of people paid their final respects for Davis with a candlelight vigil held outside her Lake Township duplex and during calling hours at the House of the Lord Church.\n\nIn July 2007, Jennifer Snyder, a native of Lake Township, Ohio, established Blake's Bright Tomorrow, a trust fund for Blake Davis' college education. On July 21, Snyder organized the Blake's Bright Tomorrow festival and auction, which included signed memorabilia from LeBron James, Joe Theismann, Jerome Bettis, Faith Hill, and Tim McGraw.\n\nCountrywide Home Loans also donated a home to Blake Davis and his grandmother, Patty Porter, who lived in a small apartment.\n\n Davis' boyfriend, Bobby Lee Cutts Jr. was arrested and charged with two counts of murder on June 23, 2007. Cutts was a police officer in the Canton, Ohio, Police Department, and the father of Davis' son and unborn daughter. The Canton Police Department, which had not considered Cutts a suspect, did not participate in the arrest, which was executed by the FBI and the local Sheriffs department.\n\nCutts (born May 21, 1977, in Canton) is the son of Renee Horne and Bobby Cutts Sr. He was married to, but separated from, another woman at the time of the murder. According to Cutts, the couple had discussed a divorce. His wife formally filed for divorce four days after his arrest. Other allegations of abuse had previously been leveled against Cutts in Stark county.\n\nFor much of the period leading to the discovery of the body, local law enforcement told the news media that Cutts was not a suspect, or even a \"person of interest\". At the time of his arrest, Cutts was a resident of Plain Township in Stark County.\n\nThe only interview Cutts has granted to the press to date was published in \"The Repository\". This was with Todd Porter, a sportswriter with whom Cutts had previous contact. Cutts denied he was involved. Porter writes: \"Cutts looked tired, sullen, and depressed. He openly wept during an exclusive interview with \"The Repository\" from his home.\"\n\nCutts is believed to have been active on a dating site during the time Davis was missing and allegedly logged in just days before his arrest on June 23.\n\nCutts and Myisha Ferrell graduated together in 1995 from GlenOak High School.\n\nThe police raided Ferrell's apartment on June 23, seizing cleaning supplies and duct tape, among other things. The Canton \"Repository\" reported that:\nA source close to Cutts told The Repository Saturday that Cutts said he asked a female friend help him remove Davis' body from her home. Cutts reportedly said Davis’ death was not his doing, but he thought no one would believe him and decided to hide the body.\n\nThe impression that Ferrell was involved in moving the body is reinforced by the statements made at the court hearing of July 2.\n\nFerrell was arrested and charged with obstruction of justice. At the time of her arrest, she was employed part-time at a local Denny's, and was undergoing eviction proceedings from her apartment.\n\nOn December 15, 2008, Ferrell was ordered released after serving one year of her two-year sentence, followed by three years of probation. Jessie Davis' mother and father were in attendance at the court proceeding.\n\nCutts and Ferrell were arraigned on June 25. Judge John Poulos set Cutts' bond at $5,000,000; Ferrell's bail was set at $500,000. That same day, Cutts was suspended without pay from the Canton Police Department. He had been on paid administrative leave.\n\nEach appeared at separate court hearings on July 2, before Judge Richard J. Kubilus. These preliminary hearings were meant for the prosecution to present sufficient probable cause to hold the accused. The complexity of the case, and the time frame of the arrests made this necessary as insufficient time existed to obtain an indictment. However, both defendants waived the preliminary hearing, and the case went to the grand jury. Cutts is represented by Bradley Iams, while Ferrell is represented John Alexander Jr. of Akron. A request for bail reduction was made on behalf of Ferrell, but this was refused after the prosecutor said \"Myisha Ferrell 'helped deposit the body' and lied to police officers several times throughout the investigation.\"\n\nOn November 5, 2007, as her trial was about to begin, Ferrell agreed to plead guilty to charges of obstruction of justice and complicity to gross abuse of a corpse for her role in Davis' disappearance and death. Under the terms of her plea agreement, Ferrell was sentenced to two years in prison—a sentence that may be lengthened unless Ferrell testifies honestly at the trial of Cutts. The judge said he would consider releasing Ferrell on probation after one year.\n\nCutts' trial began on February 4, 2008. On February 11, Cutts took the stand and described Davis' death. He said that he struggled with her in her house and struck her in the throat with his elbow. Cutts testified that he tried to resuscitate Davis after she became unconscious. He also said that he did not call 911 because Davis didn't have a telephone in her house and he didn't know how to turn on her cell phone.\n\nOn February 15, 2008, Cutts was convicted of the murder of Davis and the aggravated murder of her unborn child. He was also found guilty of associated charges, including aggravated burglary; gross abuse of a corpse; and child endangering. Cutts faced the possibility of life imprisonment or a death sentence. The jury, in its penalty phase, declined to impose the death penalty. The judge sentenced Cutts to life in prison with no eligibility for parole until 54 years of his sentence has been served.\n\nBobby Cutts Jr. was sentenced on February 27, 2008, to life imprisonment without the eligibility of parole for 57 years. He must serve time for each of his convicted murders consecutively, with additional minor concurrently with the murder convictions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22059372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22059372", "title": "Naomi Schor", "text": "Naomi Schor\n\nNaomi Schor (October 10, 1943 in New York City – December 2, 2001 in New Haven, CT\n) was a noted literary critic and theorist. A pioneer of feminist theory for her generation, she is regarded as one of the foremost scholars of French literature and critical theory of her time. Naomi's younger sister is the artist and writer Mira Schor.\n\nAt the time of her birth, Naomi Schor's Polish-born parents Ilya and Resia Schor were artists who had recently immigrated to the US as refugees from war-torn Europe. Ilya Schor was a painter, jeweler and artist of Judaica, and Resia Schor was a painter who later worked in silver and gold and mixed media on sculptural jewelry and Judaica. The Schors lived among a polyglot community of émigrés, among them musicians, intellectuals, and artists. Naomi Schor’s first language was French, and she went to the Lycée Français de New York where she received her Baccalauréat in 1961, the same year, sadly, that her father died. Schor received her B.A. in English Literature from Barnard College then received her PhD in French Literature from Yale. There Schor occasionally wrote her scholarly essays in French.\n\nSchor was one of the early proponents of French psychoanalytic and deconstructive theory in American literary studies. She wrote about canonical authors such as Émile Zola, Gustave Flaubert, Marcel Proust, Honoré de Balzac, re-examining their work through the double lens of the male-authored theoretical discourse of Jacques Derrida (whom she knew personally), Roland Barthes, and Jacques Lacan, and that of French feminist theoreticians such as Julia Kristeva, Hélène Cixous, and Luce Irigaray.\n\nSchor was the founding co-editor of \"differences: A Journal of Feminist Cultural Studies\", in 1989, a critical forum where the problematics of difference is explored in texts ranging from the literary and the visual to the political and social.\n\nAn area of Schor’s expertise was the work of the feminist psychoanalytic theorist Luce Irigaray. With Carolyn Burke and Margaret Whitford, she edited \"Engaging with Irigaray\", which included essays by Rosi Braidotti, Elizabeth Weed, and Judith Butler. With \"differences\" co-founder and co-editor Weed, Schor edited a number of \"differences\" books, including \"The Essential Difference\" in 1994 and \"Queer Theory Meets Feminism\" in 1997.\n\n\"Reading in Detail: Aesthetics and the Feminine\" is considered one of Schor’s most influential books. In this classic 1987 work of aesthetic and feminist theory, available in a 2006 paperback edition, Schor provided new ways of thinking about the gendering of details and ornament in literature, art, and architecture.\n\nIn other writings she developed the concept of female fetishism, in her many writings on the work of George Sand; she examined the question of idealism, also in relation to Sand, and in her late writings and research revisited the concept of universalism in an era of identity politics and difference.\n\nSchor was the recipient of numerous awards and honors, including a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship (1963–64), a number of Fulbright Award Fellowships to France, NEH Fellowships (1981 and 1990–91), a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1990: She was also elected member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1997. Schor taught at Columbia, Brown (from 1978 to 1989) where she held the Nancy Duke Lewis Chair from 1985 to 1989, Duke where she was the William Hanes Wannamaker Professor of Romance Studies Chair, and Harvard. At the time of her death (of a brain hemorrhage) Schor was the Benjamin F. Barge professor of French at Yale.\n\nNaomi Schor’s papers are part of the Pembroke Center Archive's Elizabeth Weed Feminist Theory Papers collection, held at the John Hay Library at Brown University.\n\nAt the time of her death she was married to R. Howard Bloch, Sterling Professor of French and Chair of the Humanities Program at Yale. A first marriage, to Breton poet Paol Keineg, ended in divorce.\n\n\n\n\n\"Woman and the French Revolution,\" UCLA, October 1989; Danziger Memorial Lecture. The University of Chicago, May 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "6880483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6880483", "title": "Philosophy of mind", "text": "Philosophy of mind\n\nPhilosophy of mind is a branch of philosophy that studies the nature of the mind. The mind–body problem is a paradigm issue in philosophy of mind, although other issues are addressed, such as the hard problem of consciousness, and the nature of particular mental states. Aspects of the mind that are studied include mental events, mental functions, mental properties, consciousness, the ontology of the mind, the nature of thought, and the relationship of the mind to the body.\n\nDualism and monism are the two central schools of thought on the mind–body problem, although nuanced views have arisen that do not fit one or the other category neatly. Dualism is found in both Eastern and Western traditions (in the Sankhya and Yoga schools of Hindu philosophy as well as Plato) but its entry into Western philosophy was thanks to René Descartes in the 17th century. Substance dualists like Descartes argue that the mind is an independently existing substance, whereas property dualists maintain that the mind is a group of independent properties that emerge from and cannot be reduced to the brain, but that it is not a distinct substance.\n\nMonism is the position that mind and body are not ontologically distinct entities (independent substances). This view was first advocated in Western philosophy by Parmenides in the 5th century BCE and was later espoused by the 17th century rationalist Baruch Spinoza. Physicalists argue that only entities postulated by physical theory exist, and that mental processes will eventually be explained in terms of these entities as physical theory continues to evolve. Physicalists maintain various positions on the prospects of reducing mental properties to physical properties (many of whom adopt compatible forms of property dualism), and the ontological status of such mental properties remains unclear. Idealists maintain that the mind is all that exists and that the external world is either mental itself, or an illusion created by the mind. Neutral monists such as Ernst Mach and William James argue that events in the world can be thought of as either mental (psychological) or physical depending on the network of relationships into which they enter, and dual-aspect monists such as Spinoza adhere to the position that there is some other, neutral substance, and that both matter and mind are properties of this unknown substance. The most common monisms in the 20th and 21st centuries have all been variations of physicalism; these positions include behaviorism, the type identity theory, anomalous monism and functionalism.\n\nMost modern philosophers of mind adopt either a reductive or non-reductive physicalist position, maintaining in their different ways that the mind is not something separate from the body. These approaches have been particularly influential in the sciences, especially in the fields of sociobiology, computer science (specifically, artificial intelligence), evolutionary psychology and the various neurosciences. Reductive physicalists assert that all mental states and properties will eventually be explained by scientific accounts of physiological processes and states. Non-reductive physicalists argue that although the mind is not a separate substance, mental properties supervene on physical properties, or that the predicates and vocabulary used in mental descriptions and explanations are indispensable, and cannot be reduced to the language and lower-level explanations of physical science. Continued neuroscientific progress has helped to clarify some of these issues; however, they are far from being resolved. Modern philosophers of mind continue to ask how the subjective qualities and the intentionality of mental states and properties can be explained in naturalistic terms.\n\nThe mind–body problem concerns the explanation of the relationship that exists between minds, or mental processes, and bodily states or processes. The main aim of philosophers working in this area is to determine the nature of the mind and mental states/processes, and how—or even if—minds are affected by and can affect the body.\n\nOur perceptual experiences depend on stimuli that arrive at our various sensory organs from the external world, and these stimuli cause changes in our mental states, ultimately causing us to feel a sensation, which may be pleasant or unpleasant. Someone's desire for a slice of pizza, for example, will tend to cause that person to move his or her body in a specific manner and in a specific direction to obtain what he or she wants. The question, then, is how it can be possible for conscious experiences to arise out of a lump of gray matter endowed with nothing but electrochemical properties.\n\nA related problem is how someone's propositional attitudes (e.g. beliefs and desires) cause that individual's neurons to fire and muscles to contract. These comprise some of the puzzles that have confronted epistemologists and philosophers of mind from at least the time of René Descartes.\n\nDualism is a set of views about the relationship between mind and matter (or body). It begins with the claim that mental phenomena are, in some respects, non-physical. One of the earliest known formulations of mind–body dualism was expressed in the eastern Sankhya and Yoga schools of Hindu philosophy (c. 650 BCE), which divided the world into purusha (mind/spirit) and prakriti (material substance). Specifically, the Yoga Sutra of Patanjali presents an analytical approach to the nature of the mind.\n\nIn Western Philosophy, the earliest discussions of dualist ideas are in the writings of Plato who maintained that humans' \"intelligence\" (a faculty of the mind or soul) could not be identified with, or explained in terms of, their physical body. However, the best-known version of dualism is due to René Descartes (1641), and holds that the mind is a non-extended, non-physical substance, a \"res cogitans\". Descartes was the first to clearly identify the mind with consciousness and self-awareness, and to distinguish this from the brain, which was the seat of intelligence. He was therefore the first to formulate the mind–body problem in the form in which it still exists today.\n\nThe most frequently used argument in favor of dualism appeals to the common-sense intuition that conscious experience is distinct from inanimate matter. If asked what the mind is, the average person would usually respond by identifying it with their self, their personality, their soul, or some other such entity. They would almost certainly deny that the mind simply is the brain, or vice versa, finding the idea that there is just one ontological entity at play to be too mechanistic, or simply unintelligible. Many modern philosophers of mind think that these intuitions are misleading and that we should use our critical faculties, along with empirical evidence from the sciences, to examine these assumptions to determine whether there is any real basis to them.\n\nAnother important argument in favor of dualism is that the mental and the physical seem to have quite different, and perhaps irreconcilable, properties. Mental events have a subjective quality, whereas physical events do not. So, for example, one can reasonably ask what a burnt finger feels like, or what a blue sky looks like, or what nice music sounds like to a person. But it is meaningless, or at least odd, to ask what a surge in the uptake of glutamate in the dorsolateral portion of the prefrontal cortex feels like.\n\nPhilosophers of mind call the subjective aspects of mental events \"qualia\" or \"raw feels\". There is something that it is like to feel pain, to see a familiar shade of blue, and so on. There are qualia involved in these mental events that seem particularly difficult to reduce to anything physical. David Chalmers explains this argument by stating that we could conceivably know all the objective information about something, such as the brain states and wavelengths of light involved with seeing the color red, but still not know something fundamental about the situation – what it is like to see the color red.\n\nIf consciousness (the mind) can exist independently of physical reality (the brain), one must explain how physical memories are created concerning consciousness. Dualism must therefore explain how consciousness affects physical reality. One possible explanation is that of a miracle, proposed by Arnold Geulincx and Nicolas Malebranche, where all mind–body interactions require the direct intervention of God.\n\nAnother possible argument that has been proposed by C. S. Lewis is the Argument from Reason: if, as monism implies, all of our thoughts are the effects of physical causes, then we have no reason for assuming that they are also the consequent of a reasonable ground. Knowledge, however, is apprehended by reasoning from ground to consequent. Therefore, if monism is correct, there would be no way of knowing this—or anything else—we could not even suppose it, except by a fluke.\n\nThe zombie argument is based on a thought experiment proposed by Todd Moody, and developed by David Chalmers in his book \"The Conscious Mind\". The basic idea is that one can imagine one's body, and therefore conceive the existence of one's body, without any conscious states being associated with this body. Chalmers' argument is that it seems possible that such a being could exist because all that is needed is that all and only the things that the physical sciences describe about a zombie must be true of it. Since none of the concepts involved in these sciences make reference to consciousness or other mental phenomena, and any physical entity can be by definition described scientifically via physics, the move from conceivability to possibility is not such a large one. Others such as Dennett have argued that the notion of a philosophical zombie is an incoherent, or unlikely, concept. It has been argued under physicalism that one must either believe that anyone including oneself might be a zombie, or that no one can be a zombie—following from the assertion that one's own conviction about being (or not being) a zombie is a product of the physical world and is therefore no different from anyone else's. This argument has been expressed by Dennett who argues that \"Zombies think they are conscious, think they have qualia, think they suffer pains—they are just 'wrong' (according to this lamentable tradition) in ways that neither they nor we could ever discover!\"\nSee also the problem of other minds.\n\nInteractionist dualism, or simply interactionism, is the particular form of dualism first espoused by Descartes in the \"Meditations\". In the 20th century, its major defenders have been Karl Popper and John Carew Eccles. It is the view that mental states, such as beliefs and desires, causally interact with physical states.\n\nDescartes' famous argument for this position can be summarized as follows: Seth has a clear and distinct idea of his mind as a thinking thing that has no spatial extension (i.e., it cannot be measured in terms of length, weight, height, and so on). He also has a clear and distinct idea of his body as something that is spatially extended, subject to quantification and not able to think. It follows that mind and body are not identical because they have radically different properties.\n\nAt the same time, however, it is clear that Seth's mental states (desires, beliefs, etc.) have causal effects on his body and vice versa: A child touches a hot stove (physical event) which causes pain (mental event) and makes her yell (physical event), this in turn provokes a sense of fear and protectiveness in the caregiver (mental event), and so on.\n\nDescartes' argument crucially depends on the premise that what Seth believes to be \"clear and distinct\" ideas in his mind are necessarily true. Many contemporary philosophers doubt this. For example, Joseph Agassi suggests that several scientific discoveries made since the early 20th century have undermined the idea of privileged access to one's own ideas. Freud claimed that a psychologically-trained observer can understand a person's unconscious motivations better than the person himself does. Duhem has shown that a philosopher of science can know a person's methods of discovery better than that person herself does, while Malinowski has shown that an anthropologist can know a person's customs and habits better than the person whose customs and habits they are. He also asserts that modern psychological experiments that cause people to see things that are not there provide grounds for rejecting Descartes' argument, because scientists can describe a person's perceptions better than the person herself can.\n\nPsychophysical parallelism, or simply parallelism, is the view that mind and body, while having distinct ontological statuses, do not causally influence one another. Instead, they run along parallel paths (mind events causally interact with mind events and brain events causally interact with brain events) and only seem to influence each other. This view was most prominently defended by Gottfried Leibniz. Although Leibniz was an ontological monist who believed that only one type of substance, the monad, exists in the universe, and that everything is reducible to it, he nonetheless maintained that there was an important distinction between \"the mental\" and \"the physical\" in terms of causation. He held that God had arranged things in advance so that minds and bodies would be in harmony with each other. This is known as the doctrine of pre-established harmony.\n\nOccasionalism is the view espoused by Nicholas Malebranche as well as Islamic philosophers such as Abu Hamid Muhammad ibn Muhammad al-Ghazali that asserts that all supposedly causal relations between physical events, or between physical and mental events, are not really causal at all. While body and mind are different substances, causes (whether mental or physical) are related to their effects by an act of God's intervention on each specific occasion.\n\nProperty dualism is the view that the world is constituted of just one kind of substance – the physical kind – and there exist two distinct kinds of properties: physical properties and mental properties. In other words, it is the view that non-physical, mental properties (such as beliefs, desires and emotions) inhere in some physical bodies (at least, brains). How mental and physical properties relate causally depends on the variety of property dualism in question, and is not always a clear issue. Sub-varieties of property dualism include:\n\n\nDual aspect theory or dual-aspect monism is the view that the mental and the physical are two aspects of, or perspectives on, the same substance. (Thus it is a mixed position, which is monistic in some respects). In modern philosophical writings, the theory's relationship to neutral monism has become somewhat ill-defined, but one proffered distinction says that whereas neutral monism allows the context of a given group of neutral elements and the relationships into which they enter to determine whether the group can be thought of as mental, physical, both, or neither, dual-aspect theory suggests that the mental and the physical are manifestations (or aspects) of some underlying substance, entity or process that is itself neither mental nor physical as normally understood. Various formulations of dual-aspect monism also require the mental and the physical to be complementary, mutually irreducible and perhaps inseparable (though distinct).\n\nThis is a philosophy of mind that regards the degrees of freedom between mental and physical well-being as not necessarily synonymous thus implying an experiential dualism between body and mind. An example of these disparate degrees of freedom is given by Allan Wallace who notes that it is \"experientially apparent that one may be physically uncomfortable—for instance, while engaging in a strenuous physical workout—while mentally cheerful; conversely, one may be mentally distraught while experiencing physical comfort\". Experiential dualism notes that our subjective experience of merely seeing something in the physical world seems qualitatively different than mental processes like grief that comes from losing a loved one. This philosophy also is a proponent of causal dualism which is defined as the dual ability for mental states and physical states to affect one another. Mental states can cause changes in physical states and vice versa.\n\nHowever, unlike cartesian dualism or some other systems, experiential dualism does not posit two fundamental substances in reality: mind and matter. Rather, experiential dualism is to be understood as a conceptual framework that gives credence to the qualitative difference between the experience of mental and physical states. Experiential dualism is accepted as the conceptual framework of Madhyamaka Buddhism.\n\nMadhayamaka Buddhism goes even further, finding fault with the monist view of physicalist philosophies of mind as well in that these generally posit matter and energy as the fundamental substance of reality. Nonetheless, this does not imply that the cartesian dualist view is correct, rather Madhyamaka regards as error any affirming view of a fundamental substance to reality.In denying the independent self-existence of all the phenomena that make up the world of our experience, the Madhyamaka view departs from both the substance dualism of Descartes and the substance monism—namely, physicalism—that is characteristic of modern science. The physicalism propounded by many contemporary scientists seems to assert that the real world is composed of physical things-in-themselves, while all mental phenomena are regarded as mere appearances, devoid of any reality in and of themselves. Much is made of this difference between appearances and reality.\nIndeed, physicalism, or the idea that matter is the only fundamental substance of reality, is explicitly rejected by Buddhism.In the Madhyamaka view, mental events are no more or less real than physical events. In terms of our common-sense experience, differences of kind do exist between physical and mental phenomena. While the former commonly have mass, location, velocity, shape, size, and numerous other physical attributes, these are not generally characteristic of mental phenomena. For example, we do not commonly conceive of the feeling of affection for another person as having mass or location. These physical attributes are no more appropriate to other mental events such as sadness, a recalled image from one's childhood, the visual perception of a rose, or consciousness of any sort. Mental phenomena are, therefore, not regarded as being physical, for the simple reason that they lack many of the attributes that are uniquely characteristic of physical phenomena. Thus, Buddhism has never adopted the physicalist principle that regards only physical things as real.\n\nHylomorphism is a theory that originates with Aristotelian philosophy, which conceives being as a compound of matter and form. \"Hylomorphism\" is a 19th-century term formed from the Greek words ὕλη \"hyle\", \"wood, matter\", and μορφή, \"morphē\", \"form\".\n\nIn contrast to dualism, monism does not accept any fundamental divisions. The fundamentally disparate nature of reality has been central to forms of eastern philosophies for over two millennia. In Indian and Chinese philosophy, monism is integral to how experience is understood. Today, the most common forms of monism in Western philosophy are physicalist. Physicalistic monism asserts that the only existing substance is physical, in some sense of that term to be clarified by our best science. However, a variety of formulations (see below) are possible. Another form of monism, idealism, states that the only existing substance is mental. Although pure idealism, such as that of George Berkeley, is uncommon in contemporary Western philosophy, a more sophisticated variant called panpsychism, according to which mental experience and properties may be at the foundation of physical experience and properties, has been espoused by some philosophers such as Alfred North Whitehead and David Ray Griffin.\n\nPhenomenalism is the theory that representations (or sense data) of external objects are all that exist. Such a view was briefly adopted by Bertrand Russell and many of the logical positivists during the early 20th century. A third possibility is to accept the existence of a basic substance that is neither physical nor mental. The mental and physical would then both be properties of this neutral substance. Such a position was adopted by Baruch Spinoza and was popularized by Ernst Mach in the 19th century. This neutral monism, as it is called, resembles property dualism.\n\nBehaviorism dominated philosophy of mind for much of the 20th century, especially the first half. In psychology, behaviorism developed as a reaction to the inadequacies of introspectionism. Introspective reports on one's own interior mental life are not subject to careful examination for accuracy and cannot be used to form predictive generalizations. Without generalizability and the possibility of third-person examination, the behaviorists argued, psychology cannot be scientific. The way out, therefore, was to eliminate the idea of an interior mental life (and hence an ontologically independent mind) altogether and focus instead on the description of observable behavior.\n\nParallel to these developments in psychology, a philosophical behaviorism (sometimes called logical behaviorism) was developed. This is characterized by a strong verificationism, which generally considers unverifiable statements about interior mental life pointless. For the behaviorist, mental states are not interior states on which one can make introspective reports. They are just descriptions of behavior or dispositions to behave in certain ways, made by third parties to explain and predict another's behavior.\n\nPhilosophical behaviorism has fallen out of favor since the latter half of the 20th century, coinciding with the rise of cognitivism. Cognitivists reject behaviorism due to several perceived problems. For example, behaviorism could be said to be counterintuitive when it maintains that someone is talking about behavior in the event that a person is experiencing a painful headache.\n\nType physicalism (or type-identity theory) was developed by John Smart and Ullin Place as a direct reaction to the failure of behaviorism. These philosophers reasoned that, if mental states are something material, but not behavioral, then mental states are probably identical to internal states of the brain. In very simplified terms: a mental state \"M\" is nothing other than brain state \"B\". The mental state \"desire for a cup of coffee\" would thus be nothing more than the \"firing of certain neurons in certain brain regions\".\nDespite its initial plausibility, the identity theory faces a strong challenge in the form of the thesis of multiple realizability, first formulated by Hilary Putnam. For example, not only humans, but many different species of animals can experience pain. However, it seems highly unlikely that all of these diverse organisms with the same pain experience are in the identical brain state. And if this is the case, then pain cannot be identical to a specific brain state. The identity theory is thus empirically unfounded.\n\nOn the other hand, even granted the above, it does not follow that identity theories of all types must be abandoned. According to token identity theories, the fact that a certain brain state is connected with only one mental state of a person does not have to mean that there is an absolute correlation between types of mental state and types of brain state. The type–token distinction can be illustrated by a simple example: the word \"green\" contains four types of letters (g, r, e, n) with two tokens (occurrences) of the letter \"e\" along with one each of the others.\nThe idea of token identity is that only particular occurrences of mental events are identical with particular occurrences or tokenings of physical events. Anomalous monism (see below) and most other non-reductive physicalisms are token-identity theories. Despite these problems, there is a renewed interest in the type identity theory today, primarily due to the influence of Jaegwon Kim.\n\nFunctionalism was formulated by Hilary Putnam and Jerry Fodor as a reaction to the inadequacies of the identity theory. Putnam and Fodor saw mental states in terms of an empirical computational theory of the mind. At about the same time or slightly after, D.M. Armstrong and David Kellogg Lewis formulated a version of functionalism that analyzed the mental concepts of folk psychology in terms of functional roles. Finally, Wittgenstein's idea of meaning as use led to a version of functionalism as a theory of meaning, further developed by Wilfrid Sellars and Gilbert Harman. Another one, psychofunctionalism, is an approach adopted by the naturalistic philosophy of mind associated with Jerry Fodor and Zenon Pylyshyn.\n\nWhat all these different varieties of functionalism share in common is the thesis that mental states are characterized by their causal relations with other mental states and with sensory inputs and behavioral outputs. That is, functionalism abstracts away from the details of the physical implementation of a mental state by characterizing it in terms of non-mental functional properties. For example, a kidney is characterized scientifically by its functional role in filtering blood and maintaining certain chemical balances. From this point of view, it does not really matter whether the kidney be made up of organic tissue, plastic nanotubes or silicon chips: it is the role that it plays and its relations to other organs that define it as a kidney.\n\nNon-reductionist philosophers hold firmly to two essential convictions with regard to mind–body relations: 1) Physicalism is true and mental states must be physical states, but 2) All reductionist proposals are unsatisfactory: mental states cannot be reduced to behavior, brain states or functional states. Hence, the question arises whether there can still be a non-reductive physicalism. Donald Davidson's anomalous monism is an attempt to formulate such a physicalism. He \"thinks that when one runs across what are traditionally seen as absurdities of Reason, such as akrasia or self-deception, the personal psychology framework is not to be given up in favor of the subpersonal one, but rather must be enlarged or extended so that the rationality set out by the principle of charity can be found elsewhere.\"\n\nDavidson uses the thesis of supervenience: mental states supervene on physical states, but are not reducible to them. \"Supervenience\" therefore describes a functional dependence: there can be no change in the mental without some change in the physical–causal reducibility between the mental and physical without ontological reducibility.\n\nBecause non-reductive physicalist theories attempt to both retain the ontological distinction between mind and body and try to solve the \"surfeit of explanations puzzle\" in some way; critics often see this as a paradox and point out the similarities to epiphenomenalism, in that it is the brain that is seen as the root \"cause\" not the mind, and the mind seems to be rendered inert.\n\nEpiphenomenalism regards one or more mental states as the byproduct of physical brain states, having no influence on physical states. The interaction is one-way (solving the \"surfeit of explanations puzzle\") but leaving us with non-reducible mental states (as a byproduct of brain states) – causally reducible, but ontologically irreducible to physical states. Pain would be seen by epiphenomenaliasts as being caused by the brain state but as not having effects on other brain states, though it might have effects on other mental states (i.e. cause distress).\n\nWeak emergentism is a form of \"non-reductive physicalism\" that involves a layered view of nature, with the layers arranged in terms of increasing complexity and each corresponding to its own special science. Some philosophers hold that emergent properties causally interact with more fundamental levels, while others maintain that higher-order properties simply supervene over lower levels without direct causal interaction. The latter group therefore holds a less strict, or \"weaker\", definition of emergentism, which can be rigorously stated as follows: a property P of composite object O is emergent if it is metaphysically impossible for another object to lack property P if that object is composed of parts with intrinsic properties identical to those in O and has those parts in an identical configuration.\n\nSometimes emergentists use the example of water having a new property when Hydrogen H and Oxygen O combine to form HO (water). In this example there \"emerges\" a new property of a transparent liquid that would not have been predicted by understanding hydrogen and oxygen as gases. This is analogous to physical properties of the brain giving rise to a mental state. Emergentists try to solve the notorious mind–body gap this way. One problem for emergentism is the idea of \"causal closure\" in the world that does not allow for a mind-to-body causation.\n\nIf one is a materialist and believes that all aspects of our common-sense psychology will find reduction to a mature cognitive neuroscience, and that non-reductive materialism is mistaken, then one can adopt a final, more radical position: eliminative materialism.\n\nThere are several varieties of eliminative materialism, but all maintain that our common-sense \"folk psychology\" badly misrepresents the nature of some aspect of cognition. Eliminativists such as Patricia and Paul Churchland argue that while folk psychology treats cognition as fundamentally sentence-like, the non-linguistic vector/matrix model of neural network theory or connectionism will prove to be a much more accurate account of how the brain works.\n\nThe Churchlands often invoke the fate of other, erroneous popular theories and ontologies that have arisen in the course of history. For example, Ptolemaic astronomy served to explain and roughly predict the motions of the planets for centuries, but eventually this model of the solar system was eliminated in favor of the Copernican model. The Churchlands believe the same eliminative fate awaits the \"sentence-cruncher\" model of the mind in which thought and behavior are the result of manipulating sentence-like states called \"propositional attitudes\".\n\nIdealism is the form of monism that sees the world as consisting of minds, mental contents and or consciousness.\nIdealists are not faced with explaining how minds arise from bodies: rather, the world, bodies and objects are regarded as mere appearances held by minds. However, accounting for the mind–body problem is not usually the main motivation for idealism; rather, idealists tend to be motivated by skepticism, intentionality, and the unique nature of ideas.\nIdealism is prominent in Eastern religious and philosophical thought. It has gone through several cycles of popularity and neglect in the history of Western philosophy.\n\nDifferent varieties of idealism may hold that there are\n\nNeutral monism, in philosophy, is the metaphysical view that the mental and the physical are two ways of organizing or describing the same elements, which are themselves \"neutral\", that is, neither physical nor mental. This view denies that the mental and the physical are two fundamentally different things. Rather, neutral monism claims the universe consists of only one kind of stuff, in the form of neutral elements that are in themselves neither mental nor physical. These neutral elements might have the properties of color and shape, just as we experience those properties. But these shaped and colored elements do not exist in a mind (considered as a substantial entity, whether dualistically or physicalistically); they exist on their own.\n\nSome philosophers take an epistemic approach and argue that the mind–body problem is currently unsolvable, and perhaps will always remain unsolvable to human beings. This is usually termed New mysterianism. Colin McGinn holds that human beings are cognitively closed in regards to their own minds. According to McGinn human minds lack the concept-forming procedures to fully grasp how mental properties such as consciousness arise from their causal basis. An example would be how an elephant is cognitively closed in regards to particle physics.\n\nA more moderate conception has been expounded by Thomas Nagel, which holds that the mind–body problem is currently unsolvable at the present stage of scientific development and that it might take a future scientific paradigm shift or revolution to bridge the explanatory gap. Nagel posits that in the future a sort of \"objective phenomenology\" might be able to bridge the gap between subjective conscious experience and its physical basis.\n\nEach attempt to answer the mind–body problem encounters substantial problems. Some philosophers argue that this is because there is an underlying conceptual confusion. These philosophers, such as Ludwig Wittgenstein and his followers in the tradition of linguistic criticism, therefore reject the problem as illusory. They argue that it is an error to ask how mental and biological states fit together. Rather it should simply be accepted that human experience can be described in different ways—for instance, in a mental and in a biological vocabulary. Illusory problems arise if one tries to describe the one in terms of the other's vocabulary or if the mental vocabulary is used in the wrong contexts. This is the case, for instance, if one searches for mental states of the brain. The brain is simply the wrong context for the use of mental vocabulary—the search for mental states of the brain is therefore a category error or a sort of fallacy of reasoning.\n\nToday, such a position is often adopted by interpreters of Wittgenstein such as Peter Hacker. However, Hilary Putnam, the originator of functionalism, has also adopted the position that the mind–body problem is an illusory problem which should be dissolved according to the manner of Wittgenstein.\n\nWhere is the mind located? If the mind is a physical phenomenon of some kind, it has to be located somewhere. According to some, there are two possible options: either the mind is internal to the body (internalism) or the mind is external to it (externalism). More generally, either the mind depends only on events and properties taking place inside the subject's body or it depends also on factors external to it.\n\nProponents of internalism are committed to the view that neural activity is sufficient to produce the mind.\nProponents of externalism maintain that the surrounding world is in some sense constitutive of the mind.\n\nExternalism differentiates into several versions. The main ones are semantic externalism, cognitive externalism and phenomenal externalism. Each of these versions of externalism can further be divided into whether they refer only to the content or to the vehicles of the mind.\n\nSemantic externalism holds that the semantic content of the mind is totally or partially defined by a state of affairs external to the body of the subject. Hilary Putnam's Twin Earth thought experiment is a good example.\n\nCognitive externalism is a very broad collection of views that suggests the role of the environment, of tools, of development, and of the body in fleshing out cognition. Embodied cognition, the extended mind, and enactivism are good examples.\n\nPhenomenal externalism suggests that the phenomenal aspects of the mind are external to the body. Authors who addressed this possibility are Ted Honderich, Edwin Holt, Francois Tonneau, Kevin O'Regan, Riccardo Manzotti, Teed Rockwell and Max Velmans.\n\nThe thesis of physicalism is that the mind is part of the material (or physical) world. Such a position faces the problem that the mind has certain properties that no other material thing seems to possess. Physicalism must therefore explain how it is possible that these properties can nonetheless emerge from a material thing. The project of providing such an explanation is often referred to as the \"naturalization of the mental\". Some of the crucial problems that this project attempts to resolve include the existence of qualia and the nature of intentionality.\n\nMany mental states seem to be experienced subjectively in different ways by different individuals. And it is characteristic of a mental state that it has some experiential \"quality\", e.g. of pain, that it hurts. However, the sensation of pain between two individuals may not be identical, since no one has a perfect way to measure how much something hurts or of describing exactly how it feels to hurt. Philosophers and scientists therefore ask where these experiences come from. The existence of cerebral events, in and of themselves, cannot explain why they are accompanied by these corresponding qualitative experiences. The puzzle of why many cerebral processes occur with an accompanying experiential aspect in consciousness seems impossible to explain.\n\nYet it also seems to many that science will eventually have to explain such experiences. This follows from an assumption about the possibility of reductive explanations. According to this view, if an attempt can be successfully made to explain a phenomenon reductively (e.g., water), then it can be explained why the phenomenon has all of its properties (e.g., fluidity, transparency). In the case of mental states, this means that there needs to be an explanation of why they have the property of being experienced in a certain way.\n\nThe 20th-century German philosopher Martin Heidegger criticized the ontological assumptions underpinning such a reductive model, and claimed that it was impossible to make sense of experience in these terms. This is because, according to Heidegger, the nature of our subjective experience and its \"qualities\" is impossible to understand in terms of Cartesian \"substances\" that bear \"properties\". Another way to put this is that the very concept of qualitative experience is incoherent in terms of—or is semantically incommensurable with the concept of—substances that bear properties.\n\nThis problem of explaining introspective first-person aspects of mental states and consciousness in general in terms of third-person quantitative neuroscience is called the explanatory gap. There are several different views of the nature of this gap among contemporary philosophers of mind. David Chalmers and the early Frank Jackson interpret the gap as ontological in nature; that is, they maintain that qualia can never be explained by science because physicalism is false. There are two separate categories involved and one cannot be reduced to the other. An alternative view is taken by philosophers such as Thomas Nagel and Colin McGinn. According to them, the gap is epistemological in nature. For Nagel, science is not yet able to explain subjective experience because it has not yet arrived at the level or kind of knowledge that is required. We are not even able to formulate the problem coherently. For McGinn, on other hand, the problem is one of permanent and inherent biological limitations. We are not able to resolve the explanatory gap because the realm of subjective experiences is cognitively closed to us in the same manner that quantum physics is cognitively closed to elephants. Other philosophers liquidate the gap as purely a semantic problem. This semantic problem, of course, led to the famous \"Qualia Question\", which is: \"Does Red cause Redness\"?\n\nIntentionality is the capacity of mental states to be directed towards (\"about\") or be in relation with something in the external world. This property of mental states entails that they have contents and semantic referents and can therefore be assigned truth values. When one tries to reduce these states to natural processes there arises a problem: natural processes are not true or false, they simply happen. It would not make any sense to say that a natural process is true or false. But mental ideas or judgments are true or false, so how then can mental states (ideas or judgments) be natural processes? The possibility of assigning semantic value to ideas must mean that such ideas are about facts. Thus, for example, the idea that Herodotus was a historian refers to Herodotus and to the fact that he was a historian. If the fact is true, then the idea is true; otherwise, it is false. But where does this relation come from? In the brain, there are only electrochemical processes and these seem not to have anything to do with Herodotus.\n\nPhilosophy of perception is concerned with the nature of perceptual experience and the status of perceptual objects, in particular how perceptual experience relates to appearances and beliefs about the world. The main contemporary views within philosophy of perception include naive realism, enactivism and representational views.\n\nHumans are corporeal beings and, as such, they are subject to examination and description by the natural sciences. Since mental processes are intimately related to bodily processes, the descriptions that the natural sciences furnish of human beings play an important role in the philosophy of mind. There are many scientific disciplines that study processes related to the mental. The list of such sciences includes: biology, computer science, cognitive science, cybernetics, linguistics, medicine, pharmacology, and psychology.\n\nThe theoretical background of biology, as is the case with modern natural sciences in general, is fundamentally materialistic. The objects of study are, in the first place, physical processes, which are considered to be the foundations of mental activity and behavior. The increasing success of biology in the explanation of mental phenomena can be seen by the absence of any empirical refutation of its fundamental presupposition: \"there can be no change in the mental states of a person without a change in brain states.\"\n\nWithin the field of neurobiology, there are many subdisciplines that are concerned with the relations between mental and physical states and processes: Sensory neurophysiology investigates the relation between the processes of perception and stimulation. Cognitive neuroscience studies the correlations between mental processes and neural processes. Neuropsychology describes the dependence of mental faculties on specific anatomical regions of the brain. Lastly, evolutionary biology studies the origins and development of the human nervous system and, in as much as this is the basis of the mind, also describes the ontogenetic and phylogenetic development of mental phenomena beginning from their most primitive stages. Evolutionary biology furthermore places tight constraints on any philosophical theory of the mind, as the gene-based mechanism of natural selection does not allow any giant leaps in the development of neural complexity or neural software but only incremental steps over long time periods.\n\nThe methodological breakthroughs of the neurosciences, in particular the introduction of high-tech neuroimaging procedures, has propelled scientists toward the elaboration of increasingly ambitious research programs: one of the main goals is to describe and comprehend the neural processes which correspond to mental functions (see: neural correlate). Several groups are inspired by these advances.\n\nComputer science concerns itself with the automatic processing of information (or at least with physical systems of symbols to which information is assigned) by means of such things as computers. From the beginning, computer programmers have been able to develop programs that permit computers to carry out tasks for which organic beings need a mind. A simple example is multiplication. It is not clear whether computers could be said to have a mind. Could they, someday, come to have what we call a mind? This question has been propelled into the forefront of much philosophical debate because of investigations in the field of artificial intelligence (AI).\n\nWithin AI, it is common to distinguish between a modest research program and a more ambitious one: this distinction was coined by John Searle in terms of a weak AI and strong AI. The exclusive objective of \"weak AI\", according to Searle, is the successful simulation of mental states, with no attempt to make computers become conscious or aware, etc. The objective of strong AI, on the contrary, is a computer with consciousness similar to that of human beings. The program of strong AI goes back to one of the pioneers of computation Alan Turing. As an answer to the question \"Can computers think?\", he formulated the famous Turing test. Turing believed that a computer could be said to \"think\" when, if placed in a room by itself next to another room that contained a human being and with the same questions being asked of both the computer and the human being by a third party human being, the computer's responses turned out to be indistinguishable from those of the human. Essentially, Turing's view of machine intelligence followed the behaviourist model of the mind—intelligence is as intelligence does. The Turing test has received many criticisms, among which the most famous is probably the Chinese room thought experiment formulated by Searle.\n\nThe question about the possible sensitivity (qualia) of computers or robots still remains open. Some computer scientists believe that the specialty of AI can still make new contributions to the resolution of the \"mind–body problem\". They suggest that based on the reciprocal influences between software and hardware that takes place in all computers, it is possible that someday theories can be discovered that help us to understand the reciprocal influences between the human mind and the brain (wetware).\n\nPsychology is the science that investigates mental states directly. It uses generally empirical methods to investigate concrete mental states like joy, fear or obsessions. Psychology investigates the laws that bind these mental states to each other or with inputs and outputs to the human organism.\n\nAn example of this is the psychology of perception. Scientists working in this field have discovered general principles of the perception of forms. A law of the psychology of forms says that objects that move in the same direction are perceived as related to each other. This law describes a relation between visual input and mental perceptual states. However, it does not suggest anything about the nature of perceptual states. The laws discovered by psychology are compatible with all the answers to the mind–body problem already described.\n\nCognitive science is the interdisciplinary scientific study of the mind and its processes. It examines what cognition is, what it does, and how it works. It includes research on intelligence and behavior, especially focusing on how information is represented, processed, and transformed (in faculties such as perception, language, memory, reasoning, and emotion) within nervous systems (human or other animal) and machines (e.g. computers). Cognitive science consists of multiple research disciplines, including psychology, artificial intelligence, philosophy, neuroscience, linguistics, anthropology, sociology, and education. It spans many levels of analysis, from low-level learning and decision mechanisms to high-level logic and planning; from neural circuitry to modular brain organisation. Rowlands argues that cognition is enactive, embodied, embedded, affective and (potentially) extended. The position is taken that the \"classical sandwich\" of cognition sandwiched between perception and action is artificial; cognition has to be seen as a product of a strongly coupled interaction that cannot be divided this way.\n\nMost of the discussion in this article has focused on one style or tradition of philosophy in modern Western culture, usually called analytic philosophy (sometimes described as Anglo-American philosophy). Many other schools of thought exist, however, which are sometimes subsumed under the broad (and vague) label of continental philosophy. In any case, though topics and methods here are numerous, in relation to the philosophy of mind the various schools that fall under this label (phenomenology, existentialism, etc.) can globally be seen to differ from the analytic school in that they focus less on language and logical analysis alone but also take in other forms of understanding human existence and experience. With reference specifically to the discussion of the mind, this tends to translate into attempts to grasp the concepts of thought and perceptual experience in some sense that does not merely involve the analysis of linguistic forms.\n\nImmanuel Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\", first published in 1781 and presented again with major revisions in 1787, represents a significant intervention into what will later become known as the philosophy of mind. Kant's first critique is generally recognized as among the most significant works of modern philosophy in the West. Kant is a figure whose influence is marked in both continental and analytic/Anglo-American philosophy. Kant's work develops an in-depth study of transcendental consciousness, or the life of the mind as conceived through universal categories of consciousness.\n\nIn Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's \"Philosophy of Mind\" (frequently translated as \"Philosophy of Spirit\" or Geist), the third part of his \"Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences\", Hegel discusses three distinct types of mind: the \"subjective mind/spirit\", the mind of an individual; the \"objective mind/spirit\", the mind of society and of the State; and the \"Absolute mind/spirit\", the position of religion, art, and philosophy. See also Hegel's \"The Phenomenology of Spirit\". Nonetheless, Hegel's work differs radically from the style of Anglo-American philosophy of mind.\n\nIn 1896, Henri Bergson made in \"Matter and Memory\" \"Essay on the relation of body and spirit\" a forceful case for the ontological difference of body and mind by reducing the problem to the more definite one of memory, thus allowing for a solution built on the \"empirical test case\" of aphasia.\n\nIn modern times, the two main schools that have developed in response or opposition to this Hegelian tradition are phenomenology and existentialism. Phenomenology, founded by Edmund Husserl, focuses on the contents of the human mind (see noema) and how processes shape our experiences. Existentialism, a school of thought founded upon the work of Søren Kierkegaard, focuses on Human predicament and how people deal with the situation of being alive. Existential-phenomenology represents a major branch of continental philosophy (they are not contradictory), rooted in the work of Husserl but expressed in its fullest forms in the work of Martin Heidegger, Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir and Maurice Merleau-Ponty. See Heidegger's \"Being and Time\", Merleau-Ponty's \"Phenomenology of Perception\", Sartre's \"Being and Nothingness\", and Simone de Beauvoir's \"The Second Sex\".\n\nSubstance Dualism is a common feature of several orthodox Hindu schools including the Sāṅkhya, Nyāya, Yoga and Dvaita Vedanta. In these schools a clear difference is drawn between matter and a non-material soul, which is eternal and undergoes samsara, a cycle of death and rebirth. The Nyāya school argued that qualities such as cognition and desire are inherent qualities which are not possessed by anything solely material, and therefore by process of elimination must belong to a non-material self, the atman. Many of these schools see their spiritual goal as moksha, liberation from the cycle of reincarnation.\n\nIn the Advaita Vedanta of the 8th century Indian philosopher Śaṅkara, the mind, body and world are all held to be the same unchanging eternal conscious entity called Brahman. Advaita, which means non-dualism, holds the view that all that exists is pure absolute consciousness. The fact that the world seems to be made up of changing entities is an illusion, or Maya. The only thing that exists is Brahman, which is described as Satchitananda (Being, consciousness and bliss). Advaita Vedanta is best described by a verse which states \"Brahman is alone True, and this world of plurality is an error; the individual self is not different from Brahman.\"\n\nAnother form of monistic Vedanta is Vishishtadvaita (qualified non-dualism) as posited by the eleventh century philosopher Ramanuja. Ramanuja criticized Advaita Vedanta by arguing that consciousness is always intentional and that it is also always a property of something. Ramanuja's Brahman is defined by a multiplicity of qualities and properties in a single monistic entity. This doctrine is called \"samanadhikaranya\" (several things in a common substrate).\n\nArguably the first exposition of empirical materialism in the history of philosophy is in the Cārvāka school (also called Lokāyata). The Cārvāka school rejected the existence of anything but matter (which they defined as being made up of the four elements), including God and the soul. Therefore, they held that even consciousness was nothing but a construct made up of atoms. A section of the Cārvāka school believed in a material soul made up of air or breath, but since this also was a form of matter, it was not said to survive death.\n\nBuddhist teachings describe that the mind manifests moment-to-moment as sense impressions and mental phenomena that are continuously changing. The moment-by-moment manifestation of the mind-stream has been described as happening in every person all the time, even in a scientist who analyses various phenomena in the world, or analyses the material body including the organ brain. The manifestation of the mind-stream is also described as being influenced by physical laws, biological laws, psychological laws, volitional laws, and universal laws.\n\nA salient feature of Buddhist philosophy which sets it apart from Indian orthodoxy is the centrality of the doctrine of not-self (Pāli. anatta, Skt. anātman). The Buddha's not-self doctrine sees humans as an impermanent composite of five psychological and physical aspects instead of a single fixed self. In this sense, what is called ego or the self is merely a convenient fiction, an illusion that does not apply to anything real but to an erroneous way of looking at the ever-changing stream of five interconnected aggregate factors. The relationship between these aggregates is said to be one of dependent-arising (pratītyasamutpāda). This means that all things, including mental events, arise co-dependently from a plurality of other causes and conditions. This seems to reject both causal determinist and epiphenomenalist conceptions of mind.\n\nThree centuries after the death of the Buddha (c. 150 BCE) saw the growth of a large body of literature called the Abhidharma in several contending Buddhist schools. In the Abhidharmic analysis of mind, the ordinary thought is defined as prapañca ('conceptual proliferation'). According to this theory, perceptual experience is bound up in multiple conceptualizations (expectations, judgments and desires). This proliferation of conceptualizations form our illusory superimposition of concepts like self and other upon an ever-changing stream of aggregate phenomena.\nIn this conception of mind no strict distinction is made between the conscious faculty and the actual sense perception of various phenomena. Consciousness is instead said to be divided into six sense modalities, five for the five senses and sixth for perception of mental phenomena. The arising of cognitive awareness is said to depend on sense perception, awareness of the mental faculty itself which is termed mental or 'introspective awareness' (\"manovijñāna\") and attention (\"āvartana\"), the picking out of objects out of the constantly changing stream of sensory impressions.\n\nRejection of a permanent agent eventually led to the philosophical problems of the seeming continuity of mind and also of explaining how rebirth and karma continue to be relevant doctrines without an eternal mind. This challenge was met by the Theravāda school by introducing the concept of mind as a factor of existence. This \"life-stream\" (Bhavanga-sota) is an undercurrent forming the condition of being. The continuity of a karmic \"person\" is therefore assured in the form of a mindstream (citta-santana), a series of flowing mental moments arising from the subliminal life-continuum mind (Bhavanga-citta), mental content, and attention.\n\nThe Sautrāntika school held a form of phenomenalism that saw the world as imperceptible. It held that external objects exist only as a support for cognition, which can only apprehend mental representations. This influenced the later Yogācāra school of Mahayana Buddhism. The Yogācāra school is often called the mind-only school because of its internalist stance that consciousness is the ultimate existing reality. The works of Vasubandhu have often been interpreted as arguing for some form of Idealism. Vasubandhu uses the dream argument and a mereological refutation of atomism to attack the reality of external objects as anything other than mental entities. Scholarly interpretations of Vasubandhu's philosophy vary widely, and include phenomenalism, neutral monism and realist phenomenology.\n\nThe Indian Mahayana schools were divided on the issue of the possibility of reflexive awareness (\"svasaṃvedana\"). Dharmakīrti accepted the idea of reflexive awareness as expounded by the Yogācāra school, comparing it to a lamp that illuminates itself while also illuminating other objects. This was strictly rejected by Mādhyamika scholars like Candrakīrti. Since in the philosophy of the Mādhyamika all things and mental events are characterized by emptiness, they argued that consciousness could not be an inherently reflexive ultimate reality since that would mean it was self-validating and therefore not characterized by emptiness. These views were ultimately reconciled by the 8th century thinker Śāntarakṣita. In Śāntarakṣita's synthesis he adopts the idealist Yogācāra views of reflexive awareness as a conventional truth into the structure of the two truths doctrine. Thus he states: \"By relying on the Mind-Only system, know that external entities do not exist. And by relying on this Middle Way system, know that no self exists at all, even in that [mind].\" \n\nThe Yogācāra school also developed the theory of the repository consciousness (\"ālayavijñāna\") to explain continuity of mind in rebirth and accumulation of karma. This repository consciousness acts as a storehouse for karmic seeds (bija) when all other senses are absent during the process of death and rebirth as well as being the causal potentiality of dharmic phenomena. Thus according to B. Alan Wallace: \nNo constituents of the body—in the brain or elsewhere—transform into mental states and processes. Such subjective experiences do not emerge from the body, but neither do they emerge from nothing. Rather, all objective mental appearances arise from the substrate, and all subjective mental states and processes arise from the substrate consciousness.\n\nTibetan Buddhist theories of mind evolved directly from the Indian Mahayana views. Thus the founder of the Gelug school, Je Tsongkhapa discusses the Yogācāra system of the Eight Consciousnesses in his \"Explanation of the Difficult Points\". He would later come to repudiate Śāntarakṣita's pragmatic idealism. \nAccording to the 14th Dalai Lama the mind can be defined \"as an entity that has the nature of mere experience, that is, 'clarity and knowing'. It is the knowing nature, or agency, that is called mind, and this is non-material.\" The simultaneously dual nature of mind is as follows:\nThe 14th Dalai Lama has also explicitly laid out his theory of mind as experiential dualism which is described above under the different types of dualism.\n\nBecause Tibetan philosophy of mind is ultimately soteriological, it focuses on meditative practices such as Dzogchen and Mahamudra that allow a practitioner to experience the true reflexive nature of their mind directly. This unobstructed knowledge of one's primordial, empty and non-dual Buddha nature is called rigpa. The mind's innermost nature is described among various schools as pure luminosity or \"clear light\" ('od gsal) and is often compared to a crystal ball or a mirror. Sogyal Rinpoche speaks of mind thus:\n\"Imagine a sky, empty, spacious, and pure from the beginning; its essence is like this. Imagine a sun, luminous, clear, unobstructed, and spontaneously present; its nature is like this.\"\n\nThe central issue in Chinese Zen philosophy of mind is in the difference between the pure and awakened mind and the defiled mind. Chinese Chan master Huangpo described the mind as without beginning and without form or limit while the defiled mind was that which was obscured by attachment to form and concepts. The pure Buddha-mind is thus able to see things \"as they truly are\", as absolute and non-dual \"thusness\" (Tathatā). This non-conceptual seeing also includes the paradoxical fact that there is no difference between a defiled and a pure mind, as well as no difference between samsara and nirvana.\n\nIn the Shobogenzo, the Japanese philosopher Dogen argued that body and mind are neither ontologically nor phenomenologically distinct but are characterized by a oneness called \"shin jin\" (bodymind). According to Dogen, \"casting off body and mind\" (\"Shinjin datsuraku\") in zazen will allow one to experience things-as-they-are (\"genjokoan\") which is the nature of original enlightenment (\"hongaku\").\n\nThere are countless subjects that are affected by the ideas developed in the philosophy of mind. Clear examples of this are the nature of death and its definitive character, the nature of emotion, of perception and of memory. Questions about what a person is and what his or her identity consists of also have much to do with the philosophy of mind. There are two subjects that, in connection with the philosophy of the mind, have aroused special attention: free will and the self.\n\nIn the context of philosophy of mind, the problem of free will takes on renewed intensity. This is certainly the case, at least, for materialistic determinists. According to this position, natural laws completely determine the course of the material world. Mental states, and therefore the will as well, would be material states, which means human behavior and decisions would be completely determined by natural laws. Some take this reasoning a step further: people cannot determine by themselves what they want and what they do. Consequently, they are not free.\n\nThis argumentation is rejected, on the one hand, by the compatibilists. Those who adopt this position suggest that the question \"Are we free?\" can only be answered once we have determined what the term \"free\" means. The opposite of \"free\" is not \"caused\" but \"compelled\" or \"coerced\". It is not appropriate to identify freedom with indetermination. A free act is one where the agent could have done otherwise if it had chosen otherwise. In this sense a person can be free even though determinism is true. The most important compatibilist in the history of the philosophy was David Hume. More recently, this position is defended, for example, by Daniel Dennett.\n\nOn the other hand, there are also many incompatibilists who reject the argument because they believe that the will is free in a stronger sense called libertarianism. These philosophers affirm the course of the world is either a) not completely determined by natural law where natural law is intercepted by physically independent agency, b) determined by indeterministic natural law only, or c) determined by indeterministic natural law in line with the subjective effort of physically non-reducible agency. Under Libertarianism, the will does not have to be deterministic and, therefore, it is potentially free. Critics of the second proposition (b) accuse the incompatibilists of using an incoherent concept of freedom. They argue as follows: if our will is not determined by anything, then we desire what we desire by pure chance. And if what we desire is purely accidental, we are not free. So if our will is not determined by anything, we are not free.\n\nThe philosophy of mind also has important consequences for the concept of \"self\". If by \"self\" or \"I\" one refers to an essential, immutable nucleus of the \"person\", some modern philosophers of mind, such as Daniel Dennett believe that no such thing exists. According to Dennett and other contemporaries, the self is considered an illusion. The idea of a self as an immutable essential nucleus derives from the idea of an immaterial soul. Such an idea is unacceptable to modern philosophers with physicalist orientations and their general skepticism of the concept of \"self\" as postulated by David Hume, who could never catch himself \"not\" doing, thinking or feeling anything. However, in the light of empirical results from developmental psychology, developmental biology and neuroscience, the idea of an essential inconstant, material nucleus—an integrated representational system distributed over changing patterns of synaptic connections—seems reasonable.\n\n"}
{"id": "9844940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9844940", "title": "Princess Christian Maternity Hospital", "text": "Princess Christian Maternity Hospital\n\nPrincess Christian Maternity Hospital is a hospital in Freetown, Sierra Leone nicknamed the 'Cottage Hospital'. On May 2006 Ahmad Tejan Kabbah re-opened the hospital alongside Connaught Hospital. \n\nPrincess Christian Maternity hospital came under severe pressure during the 2014 Ebola virus epidemic in Sierra Leone. Scientific studies have shown that pregnant women are amongst the least likely to survive an onset of ebola, most likely because the mother's body lowers its immune response to prevent it rejecting the baby. In a previous outbreak in Zaire, 14 out of 15 pregnant women who contracted the disease died. With the country's health facilities completely overrun and already unable to cope with the patient numbers, the authorities decided to place pregnant women last in the queue for treatment, and also segregated them from other ebola patients, under the assumption that there was little that could be done to save them. Most of the pregnant ebola patients were sent to Princess Christian, but with health resources committed elsewhere, the hospital was severely neglected and conditions were so bad that the United Nations proposed closing the hospital altogether.\n\nSign outside the Princess Christian Maternity Hospital in Freetown."}
{"id": "34137622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34137622", "title": "Reward-based selection", "text": "Reward-based selection\n\nReward-based selection is a technique used in evolutionary algorithms for selecting potentially useful solutions for recombination. \nThe probability of being selected for an individual is proportional to the cumulative reward, obtained by the individual. The cumulative reward can be computed as a sum of the individual reward and the reward, inherited from parents. \n\nReward-based selection can be used within Multi-armed bandit framework for Multi-objective optimization to obtain a better approximation of the Pareto front.\nThe newborn formula_1 and its parents receive a reward formula_2, if formula_1 was selected for new population formula_4, otherwise the reward is zero. \nSeveral reward definitions are possible:\n\n\nReward-based selection can quickly identify the most fruitful directions of search by maximizing the cumulative reward of individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "9528849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9528849", "title": "Smoky (dog)", "text": "Smoky (dog)\n\nSmoky (c. 1943 – 21 February 1957), a Yorkshire Terrier was a famous war dog who served in World War II. She weighed only and stood tall. Smoky is credited with beginning a renewal of interest in the once obscure Yorkshire Terrier breed.\n\nIn February 1944, Smoky was found by an American soldier in an abandoned foxhole in the New Guinea jungle. She was already a young adult Yorkie (fully grown). The soldiers initially thought the small dog belonged to the Japanese, but after taking her to a nearby prisoner-of-war camp they realized she did not understand commands in Japanese or English. Another GI then sold Smoky to Corporal William A. Wynne of Cleveland, Ohio, for two Australian pounds (equal to $6.44 at that time)—the price paid to the seller so he could return to his poker game.\n\nFor the next two years, Smoky back-packed through the rest of the war and accompanied Wynne on combat flights in the Pacific. She faced adverse circumstances, living in the New Guinea jungle and Rock Islands, suffering the primitive conditions of tents in equatorial heat and humidity. Throughout her service, Smoky slept in Wynne's tent on a blanket made from a green felt card table cover; she shared Wynne's C-rations and an occasional can of Spam. Unlike the \"official\" war dogs of World War II, Smoky had access to neither veterinary medicine nor a balanced diet formulated especially for dogs. In spite of this, Smoky was never ill. She even ran on coral for four months without developing any of the paw ailments that plagued some war dogs.\n\nAs described by Wynne, \"Smoky Served in the South Pacific with the 5th Air Force, 26th Photo Recon Squadron [and] flew 12 air/sea rescue and photo reconnaissance missions.\" On those flights, Smoky spent long hours dangling in a soldier's pack near machine guns used to ward off enemy fighters. Smoky was credited with twelve combat missions and awarded eight battle stars. She survived 150 air raids on New Guinea and made it through a typhoon at Okinawa. Smoky even parachuted from in the air, out of a tree, using a parachute made just for her. Wynne credited Smoky with saving his life by warning him of incoming shells on an LST (transport ship), calling her an \"angel from a foxhole.\" As the ship deck was booming and vibrating from anti-aircraft gunnery, Smoky guided Wynne to duck the fire that hit eight men standing next to them.\n\nIn the down time, Smoky learned numerous tricks, which she performed for the entertainment of troops with Special Services and in hospitals from Australia to Korea. According to Wynne, Smoky taught him as much as he taught her, and she developed a repertoire beyond that of any dog of her day. In 1944, \"Yank Down Under\" magazine named Smoky the \"Champion Mascot in the Southwest Pacific Area.\"\n\nSmoky's tricks enabled her to become a hero in her own right by helping engineers to build an airbase at Lingayen Gulf, Luzon, a crucial airfield for Allied war planes. Early in the Luzon campaign, the Signal Corps needed to run a telegraph wire through a pipe that was in diameter. Soil had sifted through the corrugated sections at the pipe joinings, filling as much as half of the pipe, giving Smoky only four inches of headway in some places. As Wynne himself told the story when he appeared on NBC-TV after World War II:\n\nSmoky’s work saved approximately 250 ground crewmen from having to move around and keep operational 40 United States fighters and reconnaissance planes, while a construction detail dug up the taxiway, placing the men and the planes in danger from enemy bombings. What would have been a dangerous three-day digging task to place the wire was instead completed by this little dog in minutes.\n\nAt the end of their return, Wynne and Smoky were featured in a page one story with photographs in the \"Cleveland Press\" on December 7, 1945. Smoky soon became a national sensation. Over the next 10 years, Smoky and Wynne traveled to Hollywood and all over the world to perform demonstrations of her remarkable skills, which included walking a tightrope while blindfolded. She appeared with Wynne on some of the earliest TV shows in the Cleveland area, including a show of their own on Cleveland's WKYC Channel 3 called \"Castles in the Air\", featuring some of Smoky’s unbelievable tricks. Smoky performed in 42 live-television shows without ever repeating a trick. Smoky and Wynne were also very popular entertainers at the veterans' hospitals. According to Wynne, “after the war Smoky entertained millions during late 1940s and early 1950s.\"\n\nOn February 21, 1957, \"Corporal\" Smoky died unexpectedly at the approximate age of 14. Wynne and his family buried Smoky in a World War II .30 caliber ammo box in the Cleveland Metroparks, Rocky River Reservation in Lakewood, Ohio.\n\nNearly 50 years later, on Veterans Day, November 11, 2005, a bronze life-size sculpture, by Susan Bahary, of Smoky sitting in a GI helmet, atop a two-ton blue granite base, was unveiled there. It is placed above the very spot that Smoky was laid at her final resting place. This monument is dedicated to “Smoky, the Yorkie Doodle Dandy, and the Dogs of All Wars\".\n\nMemorials honoring Smoky include:\n\nAdditionally, the annual Yorkshire Terrier National Rescue (YTNR) \"Rescues of the Year\" are given the \"Smoky Award\" in honor of this famous rescue.\n\nSmoky was awarded the PDSA Certificate for Animal Bravery or Devotion in April 2011.\n\nAccording to an Animal Planet investigation, Smoky was the first recorded therapy dog. Her service in this arena began in July 1944 at the 233rd Station Hospital in New Guinea, where she accompanied nurses to see the incoming battlefield casualties from the Biak Island invasion. Smoky was already a celebrity of sorts, as her photograph was in \"Yank\" magazine at the same time, which made it easy to get permission. Dr. Charles Mayo, of the famed Mayo Clinic, was the commanding officer who allowed Smoky to go on rounds and also permitted her to sleep with Wynne in his hospital bed for five nights. Smoky’s work as a therapy dog continued for 12 years, during and after World War II \n\n\"Yorkie Doodle Dandy: Or, the Other Woman Was a Real Dog\", is a book authored by Bill Wynne. It is the memoir of his time with Smoky during World War II and thereafter. It features highlights of their service in the Pacific and their adventures in Hollywood, as well as advice on dog training, Yorkshire Terrier FAQs, and more. The book tells the story of how Smoky was given a promotion to \"corporal\" and even explains how this Yorkshire Terrier ended up in New Guinea. Originally published in 1996 by Wynnesome Press, it is currently in its 5th edition, by Top Dog Enterprises, LLC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4805160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4805160", "title": "Steven A. Benner", "text": "Steven A. Benner\n\nSteven Albert Benner (born October 23, 1954) has been a professor at Harvard University, ETH Zurich, and the University of Florida where he was the V.T. & Louise Jackson Distinguished Professor of Chemistry. In 2005, he founded The Westheimer Institute of Science and Technology (TWIST) and the Foundation For Applied Molecular Evolution. Benner has also founded the companies EraGen Biosciences and Firebird BioMolecular Sciences LLC.\n\nBenner and his colleagues were the first to synthesize a gene, beginning the field of synthetic biology. He was instrumental in establishing the field of paleogenetics. He is interested in the origin of life and the chemical conditions and processes needed to produce RNA. Benner has worked with NASA to develop detectors for alien genetic materials, using the definition of life developed by the NASA Exobiology Discipline Working Group in 1992, “a self-sustaining chemical system capable of Darwinian evolution”.\n\nBenner attended Yale University, receiving his B.S./M.S. in Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry in 1976. He then went to Harvard University, receiving his Ph.D. in Chemistry in 1979. He worked under the supervision of Robert Burns Woodward, completing his thesis work with Frank Westheimer after Woodward's death. His Ph.D. thesis was \"Absolute stereochemistry of acetoacetate decarboxylase, betaine-homocysteine transmethylase, and 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase.\"\n\nAfter graduating from Harvard University, Benner became a fellow at Harvard, receiving the Dreyfus Award for Young Faculty in 1982. He was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry at Harvard University from 1982-1986.\n\nIn 1986, Benner moved to ETH Zurich, the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich. He held the positions of Associate Professor of Bio-organic Chemistry from 1986 to 1993 and Professor of Bio-organic Chemistry from 1993 to 1996.\n\nBy 1996 Benner joined the faculty at the University of Florida, as a professor in both chemistry and cell & molecular biology. He was appointed the V.T. & Louise Jackson Distinguished Professor of Chemistry at the University of Florida's Department of Chemistry in 2004.\n\nBenner left University of Florida in late December 2005 to found The Westheimer Institute of Science and Technology (TWIST) in Honor of Frank Westheimer. It is part of the Foundation For Applied Molecular Evolution (FfAME) in Alachua, Florida, which Benner founded in 2001.\n\nBenner founded EraGen Biosciences in 1999. The company was acquired by Luminex in 2011. He founded Firebird BioMolecular Sciences LLC in 2005.\n\nBenner's research falls into four major areas: \n\nThe Benner laboratory is an originator of the field of \"synthetic biology\", which seeks to generate, by chemical synthesis, molecules that reproduce the complex behavior of living systems, including their genetics, inheritance, and evolution. Some high points of past work in chemical genetics are listed below.\n\nIn 1984, Benner's laboratory at Harvard was the first to report the chemical synthesis of a gene encoding an enzyme, following Khorana's synthesis of a shorter gene for tRNA in 1970. This was the first designed gene of any kind, a pioneering achievement that laid the groundwork for protein engineering. The design strategies introduced in this synthesis are now widely used to support protein engineering.\n\nEfforts toward the goal of artificial genetic systems were first reported by Benner and coworkers in 1989, when they developed the first unnatural base pair. Benner and his colleagues have since developed a six-letter artificially expanded genetic information system called Artificially Expanded Genetic Information System (AEGIS) which includes two additional nonstandard nucleotides (Z and P) in addition to the four standard nucleotides (G, A, C, and T). AEGIS has its own supporting molecular biology. It enables the synthesis of proteins with more than the naturally-encoded 20 amino acids, and provides insight into how nucleic acids form duplex structures, how proteins interact with nucleic acids, and how alternative genetic systems might appear in non-terran life.\n\nBenner is one of a number of researchers, including Eric T. Kool, Floyd E. Romesberg, Ichiro Hirao, Mitsuhiko Shionoya and Andrew Ellington, who have created an extended alphabet of synthetic bases that can be incorporated into DNA (as well as RNA) using Watson-Crick bonding (as well as non-Watson-Crick bonding). While most of these synthetic bases are derivatives of the A, C, G, T bases, some are different. While some are in Watson-Crick pairs (A/T, C/G), some are self complementing (X/X). Thus the genetic alphabet has been expanded.\n\nThe number of possible nucleotide triplets, or codons, available in protein synthesis depends on the number of nucleotides available. The standard alphabet (G, A, C, and T) yields 4 = 64 possible codons, while an expanded DNA alphabet with 9 DNA bases would have 9 = 729 possible codons, many of them synthetic codons. For these codons to be useful, Aminoacyl tRNA synthetase has been created such that tRNA can code for the possibly synthetic amino acid to be coupled with its corresponding synthetic anti-codon. Brenner has described such a system which uses synthetic iso-C/iso-G DNA which uses the synthetic DNA codon [iso-C/A/G] which he calls the 65th codon. Synthetic mRNA with synthetic anti-codon [iso-G/U/C] with synthetic aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase results in an \"in vivo\" experiment that can code for a synthetic amino acid incorporated into synthetic polypeptides (synthetic proteomics).\n\nBenner has used synthetic organic chemistry and biophysics to create a \"second generation\" model for nucleic acid structure. The first generation model of DNA was proposed by James Watson and Francis Crick, based on crystallized X-ray structures being studied by Rosalind Franklin. According to the double-helix model, DNA is composed of two complementary strands of nucleotides coiled around each other. Benner's model emphasizes the role of the sugar and phosphate backbone in the genetic molecular recognition event. The poly-anionic backbone is important in creating the extended structure that helps DNA to replicate.\n\nIn 2004, Benner reported the first successful attempt to design an artificial DNA-like molecule capable of reproducing itself.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Benner recognized the potential for genome sequencing projects to generate millions of sequences and enable researchers to do extensive mapping of molecular structures in organic chemistry. In the early 1990s, Benner met Gaston Gonnet, beginning a collaboration that applied Gonnet's tools for text searching to the management of protein sequences. In 1990, in collaboration with Gaston Gonnet, the Benner laboratory introduced the DARWIN bioinformatics workbench. DARWIN (Data Analysis and Retrieval With Indexed Nucleic acid-peptide sequences) was a high-level programming environment for examining genomic sequences. It supported the matching of genomic sequences in databases, and generated information that showed how natural proteins could divergently evolve under functional constraints by accumulating mutations, insertions, and deletions. Building on Darwin, the Benner laboratory provided tools to predict the three dimensional structure of proteins from sequence data. Information about known protein structures was collected and marketed as a commercial database, the Master Catalog, by Benner's startup EraGen.\n\nThe use of multiple sequence information to predict secondary structure of proteins became popular as a result of the work of Benner and Gerloff. Predictions of protein secondary structure by Benner and colleagues achieved high accuracy. It became possible to model protein folds, detect distant homologs, enable structural genomics, and join protein sequence, structure, and function. Further, this work suggested limits to structure prediction by homology, defining what can and cannot be done with this strategy.\n\nBenner's approach opened new perspectives on how nucleic acids work, as well as tools for diagnostics and nanotechnology. The FDA has approved products that use AEGIS DNA in human diagnostics. These monitor the loads of virus in patients infected with hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV. AEGIS has been the basis of the development of tools for multiplexed detection of genetic markers such as cancer cells and single nucleotide polymorphisms in patient samples. These tools will allow personalized medicine using \"point-of-care\" genetic analysis, as well as research tools that measure the level of individual mRNA molecules within single processes of single living neurons.\n\nInterpreting genomic data and projecting back to a common genetic ancestor, \"Luca\", the Benner laboratory has introduced tools that analyze patterns of conservation and variation using structural biology, study variation in these patterns across different branches of an evolutionary tree, and correlate events in the genetic record with events in the history of the biosphere known from geology and fossils. From this have emerged examples showing how the roles of biomolecules in contemporary life can be understood through models of the historical past.\n\nBenner was an originator of the field of experimental paleogenetics, where genes and proteins from ancient organisms are resurrected using bioinformatics and recombinant DNA technology. Experimental work on ancient proteins has tested hypotheses about the evolution of complex biological functions, including the biochemistry of ruminant digestion, the thermophily of ancient bacteria, and the interaction between plants, fruits, and fungi at the time of the Cretaceous extinction. These develop our understanding of biological behavior that extends from the molecule to the cell to the organism, ecosystem, and planet, sometimes referred to as planetary biology.\n\nBenner is deeply interested in the origin of life, and the conditions necessary to support an RNA-world model in which self-replicating RNA is a precursor to life on Earth. He has identified calcium, borate, and molybdenum as important to the successful formation of carbohydrates and the stabilization of RNA. He suggested that the planet Mars may have had more desirable conditions than Earth for the initial production of RNA, but more recently agreed that models of early Earth showing dry land and intermittent water, developed by Stephen Mojzsis, present sufficient conditions for RNA development.\n\nThe Benner group has worked to identify molecular structures likely to be universal features of living systems regardless of their genesis, and not likely products of non-biological processes. These are \"biosignatures\", both for terrean-like life and for \"weird\" life forms.\n"}
{"id": "1569292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1569292", "title": "Stochastic electrodynamics", "text": "Stochastic electrodynamics\n\nStochastic electrodynamics (SED) is an extension of the de Broglie–Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics, with the electromagnetic zero-point field (ZPF) playing a central role as the guiding pilot-wave. The theory is a deterministic nonlocal hidden-variable theory. It is distinct from other more mainstream interpretations of quantum mechanics such as QED, a stochastic electrodynamics of the Copenhagen interpretation and Everett's many-worlds interpretation. SED describes energy contained in the electromagnetic vacuum at absolute zero as a stochastic, fluctuating zero-point field. The motion of a particle immersed in this stochastic zero-point radiation generally results in highly nonlinear, sometimes chaotic or emergent, behaviour. Modern approaches to SED consider the quantum properties of waves and particles as well-coordinated emergent effects resulting from deeper (sub-quantum) nonlinear matter-field interactions.\nGiven the posited emergent nature of quantum laws in SED, it has been argued that they form a kind of \"quantum equilibrium\" that has an analogous status to that of thermal equilibrium in classical dynamics. In principle therefore, SED allows other \"quantum non-equilibrium\" distributions, for which the statistical predictions of quantum theory are violated. It is controversially argued that quantum theory is merely a special case of a much wider nonlinear physics, a physics in which non-local (superluminal) signalling is possible, and in which the uncertainty principle can be violated. It has also been proposed that inertia is one such emergent law. The reported results are subject to considerable argument, with accusations that it leads to the possibility of anti-gravity, reactionless drives or free energy.\n\nThe background field is introduced as a Lorentz force in the (classical) Abraham-Lorentz-Dirac equation (see: Abraham–Lorentz–Dirac force), where the classical statistics of the electric and magnetic fields and quadratic combinations thereof are chosen to match the vacuum expectation values of the equivalent operators in QED. The field is generally represented as a discrete sum of Fourier components each with amplitude and phase that are independent classical random variables, distributed so that the statistics of the fields are isotropic and unchanged under boosts. This prescription is such that each Fourier mode at frequency (f) is expected to have an energy of hf/2, equaling that of the ground state of the vacuum modes of QED. Unless cut off, the total field has an infinite energy density, with a spectral energy density (per unit frequency per unit volume) [2h/c]f where h is Planck's constant. Consequently, the background field is a classical version of the electromagnetic ZPF of QED, though in SED literature the field is commonly referred to simply as 'the ZPF' without making that distinction. It should be noted that any finite cutoff frequency of the field itself would be incompatible with Lorentz invariance. For this reason, some researchers prefer to think of cutoff frequency in terms of the response of particles to the field rather than as a property the field itself.\n\nStochastic electrodynamics is a term for a collection of research efforts of many different styles based on the ansatz that there exists a Lorentz invariant random electromagnetic radiation. The basic ideas have been around for a long time; but Marshall (1963) and Brafford seem to have been the originators of the more concentrated efforts starting in the 1960s. Thereafter Timothy Boyer, Luis de la Peña and Ana María Cetto were perhaps the most prolific contributors in the 1970s and beyond. Others have made contributions, alterations and proposals concentrating on the application of SED to problems in QED. A separate thread has been the investigation of an earlier proposal by Walther Nernst attempting to use the SED notion of a classical ZPF to explain \"inertial mass\" as due to a vacuum reaction.\n\nIn 2000, Trevor Marshall derived an experimental prediction of SED dubbed \"spontaneous parametric up-conversion\" (SPUC) as a dual process to the well-known spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC). SPUC was tested in 2009 and 2010 with positive results.\n\nIn 2010, Cavalleri \"et al.\" introduced SEDS ('pure' SED, as they call it, plus spin) as a fundamental improvement which they claim potentially overcomes all the known drawbacks to SED. They also claim SEDS resolves four observed effects that are so far unexplained by QED, i.e., 1) the physical origin of the ZPF, and its natural upper cutoff; 2) an anomaly in experimental studies of the neutrino rest mass; 3) the origin and quantitative treatment of 1/f noise; and 4) the high-energy tail (~ 10 eV) of cosmic rays. Two double-slit electron diffraction experiments are proposed to discriminate between QM and SEDS.\n\nInconclusive but encouraging experiments were carried out in 2012 by Dmitriyeva and Moddel in which emissions in \"... infrared was clearly observed\" which they could not explain using \"...conventional thermodynamic models\".\n\nIn 2013 Auñon et al. showed that Casimir and Van der Waals interactions are a particular case of stochastic forces from electromagnetic sources when the broad Planck's spectrum is chosen and the wavefields are non-correlated. Addressing fluctuating partially coherent light emitters with a tailored spectral energy distribution in the optical range, this establishes the link between stochastic electrodynamics and coherence theory; henceforth putting forward a way to optically create and control both such zero-point fields as well as Lifshitz forces of thermal fluctuations. In addition, this opens the path to build many more stochastic forces on employing narrow-band light sources for bodies with frequency-dependent responses.\n\nIn a 2014 dissertation Carlos Alberto de Oliveira Henriques measured the energy shift in the atomic levels of Xe atoms as they passed through nano-porous Casimir membranes. Some evidence of anomalous radiation were observed, however, he was not able to distinguish this radiation conclusively from the background due to said shortcomings in the detector.\n\nSED has been used in attempts to provide a \"classical\" explanation for effects previously considered to require quantum mechanics (here restricted to the Schrödinger equation and the Dirac equation and QED) for their explanation. It has also been used to motivate a classical ZPF-based underpinning for gravity and inertia. There is no universal agreement on the successes and failures of SED, either in its congruence with standard theories of quantum mechanics, QED, and gravity, or in its compliance with observation. The following SED-based explanations are relatively uncontroversial and are free of criticism at the time of writing:\n\nThe following SED-based calculations and SED-related claims are more controversial and some have been subject to published criticism:\n\n\nAccording to Haisch and Rueda, inertia arises as an \"electromagnetic drag force\" on accelerating particles, produced by interaction with the zero-point field. In their 1998 Ann. Phys. paper (see citations), they speak of a \"Rindler flux\", presumably meaning the Unruh effect, and claim to have computed a nonzero \"z.p.f. momentum\". This computation rests upon their claim to compute a nonzero \"z.p.f. Poynting vector\".\n\nThese proposals for zero-point energy suggest a source of low or no cost free energy from the vacuum as well as the hope of developing a reactionless drive. NASA continues to make assessments: In the usual interpretation of vacuum energy it is not possible to use it to do work. However, SED takes a rather more literal, classical interpretation, and views the very high energy density of the electromagnetic vacuum as propagating waves, which must necessarily carry considerable energy and momentum flux, ordinarily not evident in the absence of matter, because the flux is isotropic.\n\nArthur C. Clarke describes a \"SHARP drive\" (for Sakharov, Haisch, Rueda and Puthoff) in his 1997 novel \"\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57305242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57305242", "title": "Violet Charlesworth", "text": "Violet Charlesworth\n\nMay Charlesworth, known as Violet Charlesworth (born January 1884) was a British fraudster.\n\nAfter obtaining money by misrepresenting herself as an heiress she faked her death in Wales on 2 January 1909. She was found and brought to trial.\n\nShe and her mother Miriam Charlesworth were sentenced to three years' penal servitude (reduced from an initial sentence of five years when the judge reconsidered his verdict); their appeal against the sentence was dismissed.\n\nShe was released from prison in February 1912 but nothing is known of her later life.\n\nHer story attracted international attention.\n"}
{"id": "20397187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20397187", "title": "William L. Allen", "text": "William L. Allen\n\nWilliam Lindsay Allen, sometimes identified as William Luedyard Allen, (c. 1877 – May 13, 1907) was an American football player and coach. He played college football at the University of Michigan and was a player on the 1898 Michigan Wolverines football team that won the school's first Western Conference championship. During the 1900 and 1902 college football seasons, he was the head football coach at Washington Agricultural College and School of Science—now known as Washington State University—in Pullman, Washington. He compiled a record of 6–3–1 as the head coach at Washington Agricultural.\n\nAllen was born in approximately 1877 and was a resident of Sac City, Iowa. He was the son of William Allen (born c. 1816 in Virginia) and Sarah Allen (born c. 1847 in Wisconsin). At the time of the 1880 United States Census and the 1885 Iowa Census, the family was living at Sac City.\n\nAllen began his education at the University of Notre Dame. In 1897, he enrolled at the University of Michigan as student in the Department of Laws. As a first-year student in 1897, Allen was the vice president of his class and the captain of the varsity reserve football team. As a second-year student in 1898, he played at the guard position for the undefeated 1898 Michigan Wolverines football team that won the school's first Western Conference championship. He was a starter at guard in Michigan's 21–0 victory over Michigan State Normal, its 29–0 victory over Kenyon College, and its 12–5 victory over Illinois,\n\nAs a third-year student, Allen was the coach of the varsity reserves football team. He graduated from Michigan with a Bachelor of Laws degree as part of the Class of 1900.\n\nAfter graduating from Michigan, Allen was hired as the head football coach at Washington Agricultural College (now Washington State University) in Pullman, Washington. He led the team to an undefeated record of 4–0–1 in the 1900 college football season. In his first four games as the head coach, Allen's team won shut out victories over L.A.A.C. (2–0 on October 13, 1900 at Lewiston), S.A.A.C. (6–0 on October 20, 1900 at Pullman), W.W.A.C. (5–0 on November 10 at Walla Walla), and S.A.A.C. (21–0 on November 24 at Spokane). The season ended with a 5–5 tie in a Thanksgiving Day game with the University of Washington in Seattle. The 1902 Washington Agricultural yearbook, the \"Chinook\", noted: \"The football teams during the season just past have, for the first time in the history of athletics at the W. A. C., had the assistance of a coach. W. L. Allen, a graduate of the University of Michigan, was procured by the Athletic Association to coach the men; he was very successful and has built a strong foundation for our future in football.\" He returned to coach the team in 1902 and compiled an overall record of 6–3–1.\n\nBy 1902, Allen had moved to Seattle, Washington. He died in May 1907 at Las Vegas, New Mexico, and was buried at Cherokee, Iowa.\n"}
{"id": "9753162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9753162", "title": "Worthington C. Ford", "text": "Worthington C. Ford\n\nWorthington Chauncey Ford (February 15, 1858 – March 7, 1941) was an American historian and editor of a number of collections of documents from early American history. He served in a variety of government positions: first, as the chief of the Bureau of Statistics for the U.S. Department of State, from 1885–1889, then at the U.S. Department of Treasury, 1893–1898, then as chief of the manuscripts division at the Library of Congress from 1902-1908. He also served as Librarian of the John Carter Brown Library at Brown University from 1917-1922.\n\nFord was the youngest member of a distinguished and notorious family. He was the great-grandson (through his mother) of Noah Webster. His two younger brothers were Paul Leicester Ford, an eminent biographer and novelist, and Malcolm Webster Ford, a distinguished amateur athlete. Both died May 8, 1902 in a murder-suicide when Malcolm shot Paul and then himself.\n\nWorthington Ford was best known for his edited collections of a number of Founding Fathers documents, including \"The writings of George Washington (14 Volumes)\", \"Alexander Hamilton's notes in the Federal convention of 1787\", and \"Writings of John Quincy Adams\". He also edited collections of the correspondence of Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, and other figures in early American history.\n\nFord's historical work was also notable for his tenure as chief of the newly established Manuscripts Division at the Library of Congress. During his time in charge, from 1903-1909, he organized a significant effort to photograph and copy manuscripts pertaining to early American history which resided in foreign archives (especially France, Britain, and Spain). In this way, copies of many documents which had been missing since 1812 or earlier were recovered.\n. In addition, he edited and published the complete Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789.\n\nFord was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1907.\n\nFord was active in the American Historical Association and was elected President in 1917. Ford's presidential address, The Editorial Function in United States History, is notable for its careful exposure of the deliberate omissions made by early editors of the Founding Fathers papers, including faked memoirs, papers edited to hide controversies important at the time, and other \"crimes and errors\" common in the editing and publishing of historical documents of the time.\n\nFord defended the American purchase and annexation of the Philippines from Spain during the Philippine–American War by saying \"Questions of Conscience need not trouble us ... Here are rich lands, held by those who do not or cannot get the best out of them, and awaiting the fructifying application of capital and organization in commerce. Under this beneficent view the natives, an inferior race, must get out or become laborers. The Filipino is an incumbrance to be got rid of, unless he accepts the mandates of a purchasing and conquering power.\"\n\nFord also edited collections of works of other American figures, including \"Letters of Henry Adams (1892-1918)\", and a collection of Aaron Burr's letters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48904829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48904829", "title": "Yvonne Arias", "text": "Yvonne Arias\n\nYvonne Arias is an American actress, known for portraying Maya Young in the television series .\n\nHer first well-known missions had an actress, the years of Osbrink Talent belonged to Agency in Universal City and beginning a career as a TV reporter sought, starting from the year of 2004. That year she had next to guest appearances on Quintuplets and Eve also a recurring role as Dian in the soap opera Passions, where they were seen in a total of six episodes 2004–2005. Added to this was in addition to another appearance in an episode of ER. Her first film role in the martial arts film Confessions of a Pit Fighter. 2006 followed by numerous other engagements for Arias, including in the pilot episode of the series Cruumbs and into two equal consecutive episodes of Scrubs, which the beginners where they mimed the attractive sister Martinez.\n\nIn 2006 a published movie Gamers she put the character of Veronica, one of the more minor supporting roles, represents and was also in the same year with a brief appearance in Shut Up and Shoot! considered. In addition to another only minor cameo appearance in the movie White Air in 2007.\n\nArias received at the same time one of the main roles in the 2008 broadcast series , where they henceforth joined by her stage name Aria Alistar in appearance and in all 40 episodes participated within the 2010 broadcast.\n\nFilm appearances (including cameo appearances)\n\n\nTV Series appearances (including guest and cameo appearances)\n\n"}
